{"id": "2067877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2067877", "title": "A499 road", "text": "A499 road\n\nThe A499 road is the major road of the Llŷn peninsula in North Wales.\n\nIts northern terminus is a roundabout with the A487 trunk road between Llanwnda and Llandwrog It then runs south-westerly along the northern coast of the peninsula, through Clynnog Fawr then turns inland crossing the peninsula to meet the southern coast at Pwllheli, it then follows that southern coast to terminate at Abersoch \n\nThe total length is 23.4 miles. At no point is it a trunk road, although the Welsh Assembly has considered upgrading its status.\n\nWork started in February 2008 to upgrade the road between Aberdesach and Llanaelhaearn and also bypass Clynnog Fawr. This work is expected to complete in Summer 2009. Previous work in 2006/2007 had cleared the new route of trees and erected boundary fencing.\n\n"}
{"id": "41800775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41800775", "title": "Agricultural geography", "text": "Agricultural geography\n\nAgricultural geography is a subdiscipline of human geography concerned with the spatial relationships found between agriculture and humans. \n\nIt is traditionally considered the branch of economic geography that investigates those parts of the Earth's surface that are transformed by humans through primary sector activities for consumption. It thus focuses on the different types of structures of agricultural landscapes and asks for the cultural, political, and environmental processes that lead to these spatial patterns. While most research in this area concentrates rather on production than on consumption, a distinction can be made between nomothetic (e.g. distribution of spatial agricultural patterns and processes) and idiographic research (e.g. human-environment interaction and the shaping of agricultural landscapes). The latter approach of agricultural geography is often applied within regional geography.\n\n\nФ== References ==lewis/1987/\"agricultural geography\":090-982\n\n"}
{"id": "1187313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1187313", "title": "Alan Wilson (academic)", "text": "Alan Wilson (academic)\n\nProfessor Sir Alan Geoffrey Wilson FAcSS (born 8 January 1939) is a British mathematician and social scientist, former Vice-Chancellor of the University of Leeds and a professor at University College London.\n\nWilson was born in Bradford on 8 January 1939, and educated at Queen Elizabeth Grammar School, Darlington and the University of Cambridge where he was an undergraduate student of Corpus Christi College, Cambridge and studied the Mathematical Tripos. \nWilson converted in the 1960s from theoretical physics to the social sciences through research on the mathematical modelling of cities (working in Oxford and London). From 1961 to 1964, he was a Scientific Officer in the Theoretical Physics Group at the Rutherford Laboratory; from 1964 to 1966, a Research Officer at the Institute of Economics and Statistics in the University of Oxford; from 1966 to 1968, Head of the Mathematical Advisory Group, Ministry of Transport; and from 1968 to 1970, Assistant Director of the Centre for Environmental Studies in London. He was appointed Professor of Urban and Regional Geography at the University of Leeds in 1970, Pro-Vice-Chancellor in 1989 and was Vice Chancellor from 1991. He was elected a Fellow of the British Academy in 1994, and was knighted in 2001.\n\nSir Alan retired in May 2004 after 13 years as Vice-Chancellor. During his time the University underwent unprecedented growth and transformation. Student numbers increased from 12,000 to 31,500, turnover increased from £100m to £320m and research income increased by more than 400% to £71m.\n\nHis knowledge of the university sector led to his appointment as first Director General for Higher Education by the UK Government, a post which he took up part-time in February 2004 and full-time on 1 June 2004. In this role, he was a key adviser to secretaries of state Charles Clarke, Ruth Kelly and Alan Johnson, and played a critical role in the government’s drive to widen participation in higher education and maintaining a world-class education system. \n\nIn May 2006 he was appointed Master of Corpus Christi College, Cambridge, and took up the post in October. He resigned from the post of Master of Corpus Christi on 1 May 2007, after only seven months in post. \n\nIn September, 2007, he joined University College London to serve as Professor of Urban and Regional Systems at the Centre for Advanced Spatial Analysis He was the Chairman of the Arts and Humanities Research Council (AHRC) from 2007-2013.\nSince 2013, he has been Chair of the Home Office Science Advisory Council and Chair of the Lead Expert Group of the Government Office for Science Foresight project on the Future of Cities.\n\nin 2016, he was appointed as Interim CEO of the Alan Turing Institute\n\n\nWilson was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society (FRS) in 2006. He was awarded the Laureat d’Honneur by the International Geographical Union and the 2004 Prize in Regional Science by the European Regional Science Association.\n\nWilson's wife's name is Sarah.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "1256241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1256241", "title": "American Cordillera", "text": "American Cordillera\n\nThe American Cordillera is a chain of mountain ranges (cordilleras) that consists of an almost continuous sequence of mountain ranges that form the western \"backbone\" of North America, South America and Antarctica. It is also the backbone of the volcanic arc that forms the eastern half of the Pacific Ring of Fire.\n\nFrom north to south, this sequence of overlapping and parallel ranges begins with the Alaska Range and the Brooks Range in Alaska and runs through the Yukon into British Columbia. The main belt of the Rocky Mountains along with the parallel Columbia Mountains and Coast Ranges of mountains and islands continue through British Columbia and Vancouver Island. In the United States, the Cordillera branches include the Rockies, the Sierra Nevada, the Cascades, and various small Pacific coastal ranges. In Mexico, the Cordillera continues through the Sierra Madre Occidental and Sierra Madre Oriental, as well as the backbone mountains of the Baja California peninsula.\n\nThe ranges of the Cordillera from Mexico northwards are collectively called the North American Cordillera or Western Cordillera in the United States and Canada, and also named as the Canadian Cordillera or Pacific Cordillera in Canada.\n\nThe Cordillera continues on through the mountain ranges of Central America in Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, Costa Rica, and Panama, and becomes the Andes Mountains of South America. The Andes with their parallel chains and the island chains off the coast of Chile continue through Colombia, Venezuela, Ecuador, Peru, Bolivia, Argentina, and Chile to the very tip of South America at Tierra del Fuego. The Cordillera continues along the Scotia Arc before reaching the mountains of the Antarctic Peninsula.\n"}
{"id": "54400216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54400216", "title": "Assimitron", "text": "Assimitron\n\nThe Assimitron was a Japanese device uses to measure fluctuating CO2 levels at crop canopies. Led by E. Inoue at the National Institute of Agricultural Sciences in Tsukuba, Japan, the device itself was an offshoot of an earlier Australian invention, the Evapotron that first found mention in a 1958 article in the journal \"Nature.\" The Evaporimeter, as it was first called, was used to measure the evaporations from natural surfaces. As for the Assimitron, it “instantaneously” performed “the necessary calculations for determining water vapour flux by correlation of humidity fluctuations with vertical wind fluctuations.”. Such calculations required the use of a complex centralized computer to process the enormous quantities of data. Part of this stemmed from the need to perform two different equations to deal with turbulent and low flows, depending on whether it was a windy or sunny day.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1877375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1877375", "title": "Bashi Channel", "text": "Bashi Channel\n\nThe Bashi Channel is a waterway between Y'Ami Island of the Philippines and Orchid Island of Taiwan. It is a part of the Luzon Strait in the Pacific Ocean. It is characterized by windy storms during the rainy period, June to December.\n\nThe Bashi Channel is an important passage for military operations. Both Taiwan and the Philippines dispute the ownership of the waters because both sides say the region lies within 200-nautical-mile from their shores. The channel is also significant to communication networks. Many of the undersea cables that carry data and telephone traffic between Asian countries pass through the Bashi Channel, making it a major potential point of failure for the Internet. In December 2006, a magnitude 6.7 submarine earthquake cut several undersea cables at the same time, causing a significant communications bottleneck that lasted several weeks.\n\n"}
{"id": "138510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=138510", "title": "Bluefield, West Virginia", "text": "Bluefield, West Virginia\n\nBluefield is a city in Mercer County, West Virginia, United States. The population was 10,447 at the 2010 census. It is the core city of the Bluefield WV-VA micropolitan area, which has a population of 107,342.\n\nBluefield is located at (37.262219, -81.218674) in the Appalachian Mountains of West Virginia across the state border from Bluefield, Virginia.\n\nAccording to the United States Census Bureau, the city has a total area of , all land.\n\nAs of the census of 2010, there were 10,447 people, 4,643 households, and 2,772 families residing in the city. The population density was . There were 5,457 housing units at an average density of . The racial makeup of the city was 73.7% White, 23.0% African American, 0.3% Native American, 0.5% Asian, 0.2% from other races, and 2.3% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 0.9% of the population.\n\nThere were 4,643 households of which 26.1% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 38.6% were married couples living together, 16.5% had a female householder with no husband present, 4.6% had a male householder with no wife present, and 40.3% were non-families. 35.0% of all households were made up of individuals and 15.1% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.21 and the average family size was 2.83.\n\nThe median age in the city was 43.1 years. 20.8% of residents were under the age of 18; 9.2% were between the ages of 18 and 24; 22.2% were from 25 to 44; 28.6% were from 45 to 64; and 19.2% were 65 years of age or older. The gender makeup of the city was 46.8% male and 53.2% female.\n\nAs of the census of 2000, there were 11,451 people, 5,038 households, and 3,078 families residing in the city. The population density was 1,311.3 people per square mile (506.4/km²). There were 5,966 housing units at an average density of 683.2 per square mile (263.9/km²). The racial makeup of the city was 75.84% White, 22.14% African American, 0.12% Native American, 0.56% Asian, 0.01% Pacific Islander, 0.21% from other races, and 1.13% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 0.52% of the population.\n\nThere were 5,038 households out of which 24.7% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 43.5% were married couples living together, 13.9% had a female householder with no husband present, and 38.9% were non-families. 34.9% of all households were made up of individuals and 17.5% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.23 and the average family size was 2.87.\n\nThe age distribution was 21.5% under the age of 18, 9.0% from 18 to 24, 23.5% from 25 to 44, 24.5% from 45 to 64, and 21.5% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 42 years. For every 100 females, there were 84.4 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 79.5 males.\n\nThe median income for a household in the city was $27,672, and the median income for a family was $36,508. Males had a median income of $31,396 versus $21,051 for females. The per capita income for the city was $17,751. About 13.0% of families and 19.3% of the population were below the poverty line, including 28.2% of those under age 18 and 10.9% of those age 65 or over.\n\nThe European-American history of Bluefield began in the 18th century, when two families settled in a rugged and remote part of what is now southern West Virginia. Others joined them and they built a small village with a mill, a church, a one-room schoolhouse, and a fort for defending the settlement against invasions by the Shawnee Indian tribe, which had a village on the banks of the Bluestone River.\n\nIn 1882, the descendants of the Davidson and Bailey family sold a portion of their land, when Captain John Fields of the Norfolk and Western Railway pioneered the area and began building a new railroad through the hills of Bluefield. The city is traditionally thought to be named after the chicory flowers in the area, which give the fields a purplish blue hue during the summer. Research has shown that this settlement, also known as Higginbotham's Summit in the 1880s, was probably named for the coal fields that were developed in the area of the Bluestone River.\n\nBeneath the land of the Davidsons and Baileys lay the largest and richest deposit of bituminous coal in the world. The first seam was discovered in nearby Pocahontas, Virginia in the backyard of Jordan Nelson. President Frederick Kimball of the Norfolk and Western Railway described this as the \"most spectacular find on the continent and indeed perhaps of the entire planet.\" The coal seam had been mentioned much earlier in Thomas Jefferson's \"Notes on the State of Virginia\", but it was not mined until 1890.\n\nAround that time, coal mines were developed in the area around Harman, Bluefield, War, and Pocahontas, which together were known as the Pocahontas Coal Fields. They helped support the Industrial Revolution in the United States. The development of the coal industry in this area created a boom in the local and national economy, and attracted immigrant European workers and migrant African Americans from the Deep South to the mountains in search of industrial work. During the Great War and World War II, coal from this area supplied the navies of the United States and United Kingdom.\n\nIn the late 19th century, the Norfolk and Western Company selected Bluefield as the site for its headquarters and repair center, which greatly stimulated the town's growth. In the one-year period from 1887 to 1888, passenger travel along the railroad increased 317%. As with the extremely accelerated growth of San Francisco during the gold rush, Bluefield became a city that seemed to spring up \"overnight.\" Growth far outpaced the existing infrastructure. Urban sprawl and blight were common complaints in the early days, as workers crowded into aging housing.\n\nThe growth and decay of the city depended almost entirely upon Norfolk and Western Railroad. When coal tonnage was good and the market for coal was booming, Bluefield was essentially a \"Little New York,\" as it was called in the day. A bustling metropolis, it had a nightlife and a personality that was \"a little bit Chicago, a little bit New York, and a whole lot of Pittsburgh\"—rugged and with steel and coal embedded in its soul.\n\nThe coal boom generated a flood of money in the area. Nearby Bramwell, incorporated in 1888, boasted that it was the \"Millionaires' Town\" because more millionaires per capita lived there than anywhere in the nation. The city also had more automobiles per capita than any other city in the country.\n\nIn 1889, the city of Bluefield was officially incorporated. The city government was always known in those days as being corrupt, inefficient, with drunken brawls and fights breaking out on the floor of City Hall on an almost daily basis.\n\nWith a strong ethnic community, Bluefield was the site of the 1895 founding of the Bluefield Colored Institute, an historically black college. It developed as today's Bluefield State College.\n\nDuring the 1920s, the twelve-story West Virginian Hotel was built. It has been adapted and in the 21st century is operated as the West Virginia Manor and Retirement Home. In 1924, nearby Graham, Virginia decided to rename itself as Bluefield to try to unite the two towns, which had been feuding since the civil war. Nobel Prize–winning economist and mathematician John Forbes Nash was born in Bluefield in 1928.\n\nThe Great Depression was particularly damaging to Bluefield. With the government nearly bankrupt, after a series of devastating structural fires swept through the downtown area, the city was nearly destroyed. It was not until the outbreak of World War II that coal production revived.\n\nThe strategic importance of the city was so great that Adolf Hitler put Bluefield on his reputed list of German air raid targets in the United States. Air raid practice drills were common in the city during this time.\n\nThomas Edd Mayfield, one of the Mayfield Brothers Bluegrass musicians of West Texas, died of leukemia in a Bluefield hospital in 1958 at the age of thirty-two. He was on tour here with Bill Monroe and the Bluegrass Boys.\n\nThe Interstate Highway System was constructed through East River Mountain on December 20, 1974; for the first time automobile traffic could reach the city without crossing the top of the mountain. The dependence on the railroads waned and restructuring changed the industry. Bluefield lost jobs and population as a result. Its Amtrak station closed in the 1980s. Mercer Mall, the area's major shopping mall, opened in 1980.\n\n\nBluefield is a mountain city with a humid subtropical climate (Cfa) bordering on humid continental (Dfa/Dfb) or highland climate, due to its elevation. It is characterized by moderately cold, snowy winters and pleasantly warm to hot summers. The hottest temperature ever recorded in the city was with the coldest temperature at −21 °F.\nBluefield prides itself on its hospitable climate. Since 1938 the Chamber of Commerce has given free lemonade when the temperature has surpassed 90 °F. The city's motto is \"nature's air conditioned city, where the summer spends the winter.\"\n\nJazz musician Louis Jordan's song \"Salt Pork, W.Va.\" was inspired by his time in a Bluefield jail.\n\nThe song \"Sweet Georgia Brown\" was co-written by Maceo Pinkard, a native of Bluefield.\n\nA controversy exists over whether or not Hank Williams was last seen alive in Bluefield on his way to a show in Ohio. He was discovered dead in Oak Hill, West Virginia.\n\nBluefield is mentioned in the Stylistics' 1973 song \"Rockin' Roll Baby\" as the birthplace of Li'l Joe.\n\nBluefield was the hometown of fictional character Rita Stapleton Bauer on the CBS soap \"Guiding Light\".\n\nThe last passenger train was the Catlettsburg, Kentucky to Washington and Boston \"Hilltopper\" train of Amtrak, which was terminated in sweeping cuts in 1979. Until 1977 Amtrak's \"Mountaineer\" operated from Chicago and Cincinnatil, through Bluefield, and then through lower Virginia to Norfolk, Virginia. Into the 1960s the Norfolk and Western Railroad operated trains from the Mid-West to the metropolitan Norfolk-Newport News, Virginia area, and Bluefield City was a stop.\n\nU.S. Route 19, U.S. Route 21 and U.S. Route 52 run through the city. Interstate 77 is a short distance to the east.\n\nBluefield was the home of the Appalachian League (rookie) Bluefield Orioles baseball team until 2010. The Orioles have had a team in Bluefield since 1958, which was the longest relationship between a parent club and a town in affiliated baseball. The Toronto Blue Jays replaced Baltimore for the 2011 season with the Bluefield Blue Jays. The team plays at Bowen Field (former Orioles stadium) and several renovations have been made to the ball park.\n\nBluefield High School has 522 state championships in all sports, which is more than any other AA school in the state. Also Bluefield ranks third in total football state championships with ten. They trail now closed Ceredo-Kenova High School (12) and national powerhouse Parkersburg High School (11).\n\nBluefield is largely a football town and the rivalry between the Bluefield Beavers and their sister city Bluefield, Virginia's Graham G-Men always draws a large crowd at Mitchell Stadium. 2005 saw the introduction of the Bluefield Barons, an Alliance Football League team.\n\nBluefield is also home to the East River Soccer Complex which has five fields and hosts local high school and college soccer games. The Southern West Virginia King's Warriors of the USL PDL play their home games at the East River Soccer Complex.\n\nBluefield is also the home of the Rough and Rowdy Brawl, an amateur boxing tournament owned by barstool sports and broadcast on pay per view via its website. The tournament features many local and non-local fighters who compete in 3 one minute rounds.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35212968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35212968", "title": "Brick clamp", "text": "Brick clamp\n\nA brick clamp is a traditional method of baking bricks, done by stacking the unbaked bricks with fuel under or among them and then setting the fuel on fire. The clamp is considered a type of kiln. If the clamp is insulated by packing earth or mud around it, it becomes a scove kiln.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3326836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3326836", "title": "CALIPSO", "text": "CALIPSO\n\nCALIPSO is a joint NASA (USA) and CNES (France) environmental satellite, built in the Cannes Mandelieu Space Center, which was launched atop a Delta II rocket on April 28, 2006. Its name stands for Cloud-Aerosol Lidar and Infrared Pathfinder Satellite Observations.\n\nPassive and active remote sensing Instruments on board the CALIPSO satellite monitor aerosols and clouds 24 hours a day. CALIPSO is part of the \"A Train\", flying in formation with several other satellites (Aqua, Aura and CloudSat).\n\nThree instruments:\n\nIn February 2009, CALIPSO switched over to the redundant laser as scheduled. The primary laser achieved its mission goal of three years of successful operation, and the redundant laser has been performing beyond expectations.\n\nThe CALIPSO mission was granted extended mission status in June 2009.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30686169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30686169", "title": "Canadian canoe routes", "text": "Canadian canoe routes\n\nCanadian canoe routes (early): This article covers the water routes used by early explorers of Canada with special emphasis on the fur trade.\n\nBoth Canada and Siberia were explored by Europeans mainly by river. Both regions have many navigable rivers with short portages between them. There are no serious barriers to water-borne travel east of the Rockies or from the Urals almost to the Pacific. The fur trade drove and financed both expansions (mostly beaver furs in Canada, sable and many others in Siberia). In both areas incomers obtained furs from the natives and exported them to Europe. In Siberia a band of armed Cossacks would enter a native village and demand yasak or tribute. In Canada furs were obtained by honest trade.\n\nRussian expansion into Siberia began with the conquest of the Khanate of Sibir in 1582. In 1639 they reached the Pacific near Okhotsk. European settlement of Canada began in 1605 and 1608 (Port Royal, Nova Scotia and Quebec City). Canada-based Europeans reached the Arctic Ocean in 1789 and the Pacific in 1793, both expeditions led by Alexander Mackenzie). For details of Siberian travel see Siberian River Routes.\n\nAn explorer naturally wishes to travel as far as possible by water. Hudson Bay gets one more than a third of the way across the continent, but it leads to unproductive country and is blocked by ice for most of the year. The Mississippi River is a natural entry point, but it only began to be used in 1718 with the foundation of New Orleans. Early sea ships could follow the Hudson River as far as Albany, but this leads north to the Saint Laurence and westward travel was blocked by the Iroquois league. The Chesapeake and Delaware Bays lead a short way inland and the other east coast rivers are too short or shallow to be of much use. This leaves the St. Lawrence River.\n\n\"French Era:\" In the sixteenth century, cod fishermen began trading for furs, especially at Tadoussac on the St. Lawrence River. With the foundation of Quebec in 1608, Coureurs des bois spread out through the many rivers and lakes to trade with the Indians, while Indians would carry canoe-loads of fur down to Montreal. Nearby tribes became middlemen, drawing furs from further inland. Montreal was the main base where furs were stored before transshipment to Europe. By the end of the period, trade and exploration had spread to all the Great Lakes and was extending down the Mississippi. Meanwhile, the British maintained posts on Hudson Bay, ignored the interior and waited for Indians to bring furs to them.\n\n\"British Era:\" The second era began when trade reached the \"pays d'en haut\" west of Lake Superior. In these cold lands beaver had longer and thicker fur. After the British conquered Canada in 1759, management of the Montreal trade was taken over by English-speakers while the real work continued to be done by French-Canadians. The Montreal-based North West Company was formed in 1779 largely because distances had become so great as to require a highly organized transport system (The Athabasca country was 3000 miles from Montreal and a canoe might go 1000 miles in a month). The independent coureur des bois was replaced by hired voyageurs. Since the west country was too far for a round trip in one season, each spring, when the ice broke up, boats would set out from Montreal while winterers would start east. They exchanged their goods at Grand Portage on Lake Superior and returned before the rivers froze five months later. To save the cost of hauling food from Montreal Metis around Winnipeg began the large-scale production of pemmican. The Hudson Bay trade was diverted southwest to the edge of the prairie where pemmican was picked up to feed the voyageurs on their journey northwest to the Athabasca country. Competition from the Nor'Westers forced the Hudson's Bay Company to build posts in the interior. The two companies competed for a while and, in 1821, merged. Management was taken over by the capital-rich HBC, but trading methods were those of the Montreal-based Nor'Westers. Much trade shifted to York Factory and later some went south to Minnesota. After 1810 the western posts were linked to the British bases on the Oregon coast. By mid-century the HBC ruled an inland empire that stretched from Hudson Bay to the Pacific. The Carlton Trail became a land route across the prairies. HBC land claims were transferred to Canada by the Rupert's Land Act 1868. From 1874 the North-West Mounted Police began to extend formal government into the area. The fur trade routes grew obsolete from the 1880s with the coming of railways and steamships.\n\nSeagoing ships can reach Quebec City and smaller ones can reach Montreal. One might think that the route would continue up the St. Lawrence, but this was not the case. Possible reasons are the Lachine Rapids and other rapids above Montreal, Niagara Falls, Iroquois hostility, the poorer quality of southern furs and the lack of large birch trees to make canoes. The route west from Montreal has been called the 'first Trans-Canada Highway'. It ran from near Montreal, up the Ottawa River, west up the Mattawa River to Trout Lake and over the 7-mile La Vase portage at what is now North Bay on Lake Nipissing and down the French River to Georgian Bay of Lake Huron. This route was first used by Etienne Brule in 1610 and later by Champlain. When the Iroquois made the Ottawa dangerous it was possible for small canoes to continue up the Ottawa above the Mattawa and from its sources cross to the Saint-Maurice River and down to the St. Lawrence at Trois-Rivières.\n\nFrom the French River south to the Jesuit Huron missions at the southern end of Georgian Bay (1626–1640). Or west through the Strait of Mackinac to Lake Michigan. Or west north of Manitoulin Island and up the St Marys River (26 feet difference in elevation) to Lake Superior. On Lake Superior voyageurs would normally hug the northern shore because of the danger of frequent squalls that could overturn their boats.\n\nThe route up the St. Lawrence to Lake Ontario, Niagara Falls, Lake Erie, Detroit River, Lake St. Clair, St. Clair River and lower Lake Huron developed later (Adrien Jolliet in 1669 was probably the first) and was never the main westward route. North of the St. Lawrence were many complex lakes and rivers that were sometimes used to go as far as James Bay. The Toronto Carrying-Place Trail was a major portage route in the St. Lawrence basin, linking Lake Ontario with Lake Simcoe and the northern Great Lakes.\n\nThe Canada–United States border meets Lake Superior near Grand Portage, Minnesota. From here to Lake of the Woods the voyageurs' route went northwest across the 9 mile (14 km) long Grand Portage to avoid the falls and canyon of the Pigeon River, thence along the present international border west up the long Pigeon River and Arrow River to South Lake, and then across the Height of Land Portage to North Lake whose waters drain into Hudson Bay. From North Lake the route goes through Gunflint Lake, thence down the Pine and Granite Rivers to Saganaga lake and through a chain of lakes, including Knife and Basswood Lakes, to Lac La Croix, where the route from Fort William comes in. It continues down the Loon River to Lake Namakan and north over either of two portages to Rainy Lake (a depot was established here to shorten the voyage of the Athabasca brigade) and down the Rainy River to Lake of the Woods west-northwest of Grand Portage. Leaving the US border, northwest down the Winnipeg River with 26 portages to Lake Winnipeg, a poor lake for small craft. This area was opened up by La Vérendrye in 1731-1737. Following the current downstream leads to the Nelson River and Hudson Bay, which is not very useful. (The Nelson River is difficult and the parallel Hayes River was preferred. The Hayes route became more important after 1821 when much trade shifted from Montreal to York Factory)\n\nIn 1803 it was found that Grand Portage was on the US side of the border and the Lake Superior base was moved northeast to Fort William, Ontario, from which an old trail led inland to the north and west to Lac La Croix in the watershed of the Rainy River. For the two routes from Lake Superior see Grand Portage National Monument and Kaministiquia River.\n\nA minor route ran from Duluth, Minnesota west and north up the St. Louis River and Embarrass River over another Height of Land Portage and north down the Pike River (Minnesota) and Vermilion River (Minnesota) to Rainy Lake on the Grand Portage route. During the negotiations for the Webster-Ashburton Treaty Britain tried to make this as the Canada–US border.\n\nThe Saskatchewan River enters Lake Winnipeg at Grand Rapids, Manitoba. Around these rapids to Cedar Lake. [Cedar Lake is one of the chain of lakes that look like a single lake west of Lake Winnipeg. Although it was not much used, a route ran from Cedar Lake south over the Mossy portage to Lake Winnipegosis and then the mile-and-a-half Meadow Portage to Lake Manitoba and the at least of Portage la Prairie to the Assiniboine River. Another route reached Lake Manitoba from Lake Winnipeg via the Dauphin River. Up the Saskatchewan, past Cumberland House and up the North Saskatchewan River almost to the Rocky Mountains at Fort Edmonton and Rocky Mountain House, Alberta. The North Saskatchewan is approximately the southern limit of forested beaver country. There are no portages between Cumberland and Edmonton, but there are sand bars and stretch of strong current east of Prince Albert, Saskatchewan where canoes were dragged upstream on ropes. Above Prince Albert is the \"La Montée\" prairie country where voyageurs were fed by buffalo hunters. Both York boats and north canoes were used. Trade was helped by the fact that the Cree Language was spoken along the whole route. South of the river there was enough grass for horses and one could travel from Edmonton to Red River on horseback. Horses were used for speed and canoes for freight. There are, of course, no canoe routes over the Rockies.\n\nThe Assiniboine River which meets the Red River just south of Lake Winnipeg provided another route west. The Red River of the North, which flows north into the southern tip of Lake Winnipeg gained some importance after 1812 with the establishment of the Red River Colony and when the Metis began supplying buffalo Pemmican to feed the voyageurs. These are prairie rivers and not good beaver country. Much transport was by horse and Red River cart, and American traders were able to subvert the British monopoly over the fur trade by siphoning off much of the trade to entrepôts on the Mississippi River to the south by way of the Red River Trails.\n\nThe axis from Lake Superior to the Mackenzie River runs along the southwest side of the forested beaver country between the prairie to the southwest and the Barren Grounds to the northeast. Here beaver fur is longer and thicker than further southeast. The southern part of the axis was near the source of pemmican. From the depot at Cumberland House, Saskatchewan on the lower Saskatchewan River, this route runs north up the Sturgeon-Weir River, across Frog Portage to the east-flowing Churchill River which is mostly a chain of lakes, west up the Churchill past the depot on Lac Île-à-la-Crosse, through Peter Pond Lake to Lac La Loche and over the 12-mile Methye Portage to the Clearwater River whose waters reach the Arctic. The Methye Portage, which was first reached by Peter Pond in 1778 ranks with Grand Portage as the most difficult of the major portages. \n\nThe route continues west down the Clearwater River to the Athabasca River at Fort McMurray and north down the Athabasca to the Peace-Athabasca Delta and the depot at Fort Chipewyan, Alberta, at the west end of Lake Athabasca. This was about as far as canoes could reach and return in one season and was the gathering place for furs from the rich Athabasca region and further west. One could continue into poorer country north down the Slave River to the Great Slave Lake and thence northwest down the Mackenzie River to the Arctic Ocean.\n\nAfter the voyages of Captain Cook European ships entered the Pacific in large numbers. A Maritime fur trade with China developed from the Columbia District (known as Oregon Country in the US). The inland canoe routes were linked to the Pacific coast in 1811 when David Thompson reached the mouth of the Columbia River. A fur trade developed in the interior. Here, horses were used more often than canoes, furs were trapped by non-Indians and the pelts exported by ship. Here Canadians competed, rather successfully, with the American Fur Company. In 1846 the Columbia District was divided between the two nations at the 49th parallel.\n\nThe interior of British Columbia around the upper Fraser River was called New Caladonia. Goods were carried from Fort Chipewyan up the Peace River (1,500 foot elevation gain and only one significant portage at Hudson Hope, British Columbia) to Fort McLeod and carried over the mountains. It normally took two years for heavy goods to cross the continent, goods being stored at Fort Chipewyan over the winter. Later there was a horse trail from the Fraser River south to Fort Okanogan on the Columbia River.\n\nThe route to the Columbia River ran from Fort Chipewyan southwest up the Athabasca River to Fort Assiniboine and after 1825, west from Fort Edmonton on the North Saskatchewan over an 80-mile horse track to Fort Assiniboine. From there it went up the Athabasca to Jasper House and by horse over Simpson Pass to Boat Encampment on the Columbia. The route was used for messages and light freight but was not practical for heavy freight.\n\nThe far northwest was supplied by an unusual route which was found in 1851 by Robert Campbell who travelled in the opposite direction from the one described here. From the Mackenzie River delta it went south up the Peel River to the depot at Fort McPherson, Northwest Territories, thence back down the Peel and west up the Rat River (by poling or dragging, not paddling) or by a parallel trail and over a half-mile portage to the Little Bell River. The route from Bell River (Yukon) went past a post called Lapierre's House and down the Porcupine River to Fort Yukon, Alaska about 300 miles west of Fort McPherson. From there it went at least 400 miles south-southeast up the Yukon River and Pelly River, then the Findlayson and Campbell Rivers and a portage to Frances Lake, down the Frances River to the Liard River and east to Fort Simpson on the Mackenzie about 275 miles east of Frances Lake. There was some transport on the Laird, but the Laird river canyon made this difficult.\n\nIn 1682 La Salle reached the mouth of the Mississippi from the Great Lakes. From about 1715 the French sought to link the St. Lawrence and Mississippi basins and bottle up the English on the east coast. From the southeast side of Lake Michigan, east up the St. Joseph River to near the present site of South Bend, Indiana and across a short portage to the Kankakee River, west down to Kankakee, which joins the Des Plaines River to become the Illinois River which runs first west and then southwest to the Mississippi. Another route was the Chicago River and across the Chicago Portage to the Des Plaines River and south to the Illinois. Alternatively, from the northwest side of Lake Michigan, at the head of Green Bay, up the Fox River, past serious rapids to Lake Winnebago, up the Fox and over a short portage to the Wisconsin River and southwest to the Mississippi. Another route ran from the western extremity of Lake Superior up the Saint Louis River and the East Savanna River, across the Savanna Portage, and down south and west flowing streams to the Mississippi River and the fur country of what is now the U.S. state of Minnesota.\n\nBy the time of the British conquest there were French trading posts from New Orleans up the Mississippi and Illinois Rivers to the Great Lakes.\n\nThis was the main axis of British-French and British-US military conflict late in the period. From Quebec upriver about a third of the way to Montreal, up the Richelieu River to Lake Champlain, portage west parallel to the La Chute River (230 feet drop in 3½-miles) to Lake George, overland to the Hudson River and downstream to New York.\n\nAlthough the French had long been in the Ohio country (La Salle in 1669, Fort des Miamis from 1715), this area only became important after about 1743 when the French tried to block Anglo-American expansion into the Ohio country. From Lake Erie, at Fort Presque Isle (1753), south up an army-built wagon road to Fort Le Boeuf at the head of the Rivière aux Boeufs (LeBoeuf Creek), down LeBoeuf Creek to French Creek to Fort Machault at its junction with the Allegheny River and down the Allegany to Fort Duquesne (1754) at modern-day Pittsburgh. The British response to this move was the beginning of the French and Indian War.\n\nThe Hudson's Bay Company began establishing posts on the Bay in 1668. Unlike the French-Canadians, the English were usually content to sit on the coast and let the Indians bring furs to them. 'Asleep by the frozen sea' is how Joseph Robson described it. Movement inland began about 1750 after the French entered the western country and tried to divert the Hudson Bay fur trade to Montreal. The most important route ran from York Factory up the Hayes River (not the Nelson River) to Norway House at the north end of Lake Winnipeg. Most posts were on the southwest side of the bay. Inland were many complex routes, most being too small for heavy freight canoes.\nMain routes from east to west were:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "769680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=769680", "title": "Castellan", "text": "Castellan\n\nA castellan was the governor or captain of a castellany and its castle. The word stems from the Latin \"Castellanus\", derived from \"castellum\" \"castle\". Sometimes also known as a constable, governor of the castle district or captain, the Constable of the Tower of London is, in fact, a form of castellan. A castellan was almost always male, but could occasionally be female, as when, in 1194, Beatrice inherited her father's castellany of Bourbourg upon the death of her brother, Roger.\n\nAfter the fall of the Western Roman Empire, many tribes migrated into western Europe, causing strife and war. The answer to recurrent invasion was to create fortified areas which evolved into castles. Some leaders gained control of several areas, each with a castle. The problem lay in exerting proper control and authority in each area when a leader could only be in one place at a time. To answer this, lords gave their trusted vassals direct control of a castle, reporting to the lord only. In the ninth century, as fortifications improved and kings had difficulty making their subordinates pay their taxes or send the military aid the kings demanded, the castellans grew in power, holding their fief without much concern for their overlord's demands. This changed as kings grew in power and as the Holy Roman emperors replaced recalcitrant vassals with ministerials.\n\nUsually the duties of a castellan were combined with the duties of a majordomo, making the castellan responsible for a castle's domestic staff and its garrison, as well as a military administrator responsible for maintaining defenses and protecting the castle's lands. This was particularly the case if there was no lord resident at the castle, or if the resident lord was frequently absent. A castellan may exercise the power of the \"ban\" - that is, to hear court cases and collect the fines, collect taxes from residents, and muster local men for the defense Castellans had both the power of low justice and high justice, which allowed them to implement up to and including the death penalty, as when, in 1111, the Salzburg castellan caught the ministerial who fomented armed rebellion, he had the offender blinded, as one would a serf. At times, the castellan served as the representative of the people of his castellany, as did the castellan of Bruges, when the burghers stood up for more privileges and liberties from the counts of Flanders.\n\nOne unusual responsibility in western Europe concerned jurisdiction over the resident Jewish communities near the English Channel. The Constable of the Tower of London and those castellans subordinate to the dukes of Normandy were responsible for their administration. Vivian Lipman posits four reasons for this: the castles provided defense, they were centres of administration, they were potential prisons, and possibly, as the residence of a local magnate, they could be a valuable client.\n\nIn France, castellans (known in French as châtelains) who governed castles without resident nobles acquired considerable powers, and the position actually became a hereditary fiefdom. By the tenth century, the fragmentation of power became so widespread in Mâcon that the castellany was considered the basic unit of governance, without effective levels above it - the counts of Mâcon were largely ignored by their castellans from about 980 to 1030. In the 12th century \"châtelains\" had become lords, they expanded their territories to include taking weaker castellanies under their control, as when then castellan of Beaujeu took over lands in Lyons, or when Uxelles annexed Briançon, then Sennecey-le-Grand and L'Épervieres.\n\nIn other areas, the castellans never managed to rise to the lordship and they remained a local officer of an overlord. During the Ancien Régime, castellans were heads of the local royal administration, but their power was delegated to their lieutenants.\n\nAll remaining lordships and royal local administration were suppressed during the French Revolution. During the 19th and 20th centuries, \"châtelain\" is used to describe the owner of a castle or manor house, in many cases a figure of authority in his parish, akin the English squire.\n\n In Germany the castellan was known as a \"Burgmann\", or sometimes \"Hauptmann\" (\"captain\"), who reported to the lord of the castle, or \"Burgherr\", also often known as the burgrave (\"Burggraf\"). The \"burgmann\" may have been either a free noble or a \"ministerialis\", but either way administered the castle as a vassal. A \"ministerialis\", being wholly indebted to a lord, was more easily controlled. \"Ministeriales\" replaced free nobles as castellans of Hohensalzburg under Conrad I of Abensberg’s tenure as Archbishop of Salzburg from 1106 to 1147, starting with Henry of Seekirchen in the 1130s.\n\nIn the Medieval Kingdom of Hungary usually was called \"várnagy\", and in the Latin charts it appeared as \"castellanus\". The lord of the castle had very similar functions than the German ones. In Hungary first the King, later the most powerful noblemen designed the castellans between their followers for the administration of their castles and the states that belonged to the fortress.\n\nAt times, there was a castellan among the Officers of the Kingdom of Jerusalem, starting with Anselm (castellan, c. 1110).\n\nIn the Kingdom of Poland and later the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth, the castellans () were in most cases lower in precedence to the voivodes (with the exception of the Burgrave of Kraków [Polish \"Burgrabia krakowski\"] who had precedence before the Voivode of Kraków). Castellans were in charge of a part of a voivodeship called the castellany (Polish \"Kasztelania\") until the 15th-century and from that time on their domain was divided into provinces for greater castellans, and powiats for minor castellans. Castellans in the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth were of senator rank.\n\nIn Portugal, a castellan was known as \"alcaide\". Later, the role of \"alcaide\" became an honorary title awarded by the King of Portugal to certain nobles. As the honorary holder of the office of \"alcaide\" did not often live near its castle, a delegate of him started to be appointed to effectively govern it. An honorary holder of the office became known as \"alcaide-mor\" (major \"alcaide\") and its delegate became known as \"alcaide pequeno\" (little \"alcaide\") or \"alcaide-menor\" (minor \"alcaide).\n\nA castellany, or castellania, is a term denoting a district administered by a castellan. Castellanies appeared during the Middle Ages and in most current states are now replaced by a more modern type of country subdivision. The word is derived from castle and literally means the extent of land and jurisdiction belonging to a given castle.\n\nIt also renders equivalent, often cognate, terms in other languages. Examples of French \"châtelainies\" include the castellanies of Ivry-la-Bataille, Nonancourt, Pacy, Vernon and Gaillon, all in Normandy, which under in the treaty of Issoudun (1195, after a war with king Richard of England) were acquired for the French crown by Philip Augustus. Examples from Poland include Leczyca and Sieradz (both once a duchy), Spycimierz, Rozprza, Wolbórz and Wojnicz (in Cracow diocese) and Otmuchow in Silesia.\n\n"}
{"id": "1224156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1224156", "title": "Districts of Ghana", "text": "Districts of Ghana\n\nThe Districts of Ghana are second-level administrative subdivisions of Ghana, below the level of region. There are 216 districts.\n\nThe districts of Ghana were re-organized in 1988/1989 in an attempt to decentralize the government and to combat the rampant corruption amongst officials. The reform of the late 1980s subdivided the regions of Ghana into 110 districts, where local district assemblies should deal with the local administration. By 2006, an additional 28 districts were created by splitting some of the original 110, bringing their number up to 138. In February 2008, there were more districts created and some were upgraded to municipal status. This brought the final number to 170 districts in Ghana. Since then, a further 46 districts have been added since 28 June 2012 bringing the total to 216 districts.\n\nOrdinary Districts have a minimum population of seventy-five thousand people.\n\nMunicipal Districts have a minimum population of ninety-five thousand people.\n\nMetropolitan Districts have a minimum population of two hundred and fifty thousand people.\n\nDistricts are governed by District Assemblies, which are established by the Minister of Local Government, and serve as the highest political authority in each district. They consist of:\n\nThe District Chief Executive is appointed by the President of the Republic and serves as the representative of the Central Government in the district. The incumbent presides at meetings of the Executive Committee of the District Assembly, and is responsible for:\n\nThe Executive Committee exercises the executive and coordinating functions of the District Assembly, and has the following members:\n\nEach District Assembly elects a Presiding Member from among their number, who convenes and presides at meetings of the District Assembly.\n\nAs the political and administrative authorities over the districts, the primary function of District Assemblies is to promote local economic development. \n\nThe Local Government Act of 2016 also tasks District Assemblies to:\n\nThe Act also grants the District Assemblies with the following authorities:\n\nThe Ashanti Region of Ghana contains the following 30 districts. This is made up of 1 Metropolitan, 7 Municipal and 22 Ordinary districts. They are as follows: \n\nThe Brong Ahafo Region of Ghana was created in April 1959. It contains 27 districts. They are made up of 8 municipal and 19 ordinary districts as follows: \n\nThe Central Region of Ghana contains 20 districts. These are made up of 1 metropolitan, 6 municipal and 13 ordinary districts as follows: \n\nThe Eastern Region of Ghana contains 26 districts made up of 7 municipal and 19 ordinary districts as follows: \n\nThe Greater Accra Region of Ghana contains 26 districts made up of 2 metropolitan, 19 municipal and 5 ordinary districts as follows: \n\nThe Northern Region of Ghana contains 28 districts. 19 are ordinary districts in addition to 8 municipal and 1 metropolitan districts.: \n\nThe Upper East Region of Ghana contains 13 districts made up of 2 municipal and 11 ordinary districts as follows: \n\nThe Upper West Region of Ghana contains 11 districts consisting of 1 municipal and 10 ordinary districts as follows: \n\nThe Volta Region of Ghana contains 25 districts made up of 5 municipal and 20 ordinary districts as follows: \n\nThe Western Region of Ghana contains 22 districts made up of 1 metropolitan, 2 municipal and 19 ordinary districts as follows: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "146339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146339", "title": "Enhanced 9-1-1", "text": "Enhanced 9-1-1\n\nEnhanced 911, E-911 or E911 is a system used in North America to automatically provide the caller's location to 911 dispatchers. 911 is the universal emergency telephone number in the region. Outside of Canada, Mexico, and the United States, this type of facility is often called caller location. In the European Union, a similar system exists known as E112 (where 112 is the emergency access number) and known as eCall when called by a vehicle.\n\nAn incoming 911 call is routed to a Public Safety Answering Point (PSAP), a call center operated by the local government. At the PSAP, the call is answered by a specially trained official known as a 9-1-1 dispatcher. The dispatcher's computer uses information provided by the telephone company to display the physical address or geographic coordinates of the caller. This information is used to dispatch police, fire, medical, and other services as needed.\n\nCalls to 911 over the public switched telephone network (PSTN) are routed to a special router (known as Selective Router, or 9-1-1 Tandem). The router looks for the address associated with the caller's telephone number in a database. The caller's phone number is known as an ANI. The database relating ANIs to addresses is known as ALI (Automatic Location Identification). The router then uses the address to search in the MSAG for the Emergency Service Number (ESN) of the appropriate PSAP for that area, and connects the call to it.\n\nThe Master Street Address Guide (MSAG) is a database of street addresses and corresponding Emergency Service Numbers (ESNs). ESNs represent one or more emergency service agencies (e.g. fire department, law enforcement) designated to serve a specific range of addresses in a geographic area, called an Emergency Service Zone.\n\nCalls from cellular phones are received via cell towers by mobile switching centers (MSC). The switching center automatically assigns a unique identifier to each cellular 911 call, known as a \"pseudo ANI\". The Selective Router connects the call to a PSAP based on the cell tower's location.\n\nLocation is an important concept in the manner of how the Enhanced 911 system works.\n\nAutomatic location of the emergency is intended to be faster and more reliable than verbal communication of the location, though this is usually requested anyway for confirmation. It also makes it possible for emergency services to respond when callers cannot communicate their location, because they do not know where they are, are too panicked, are a child, are distracted by the ongoing emergency, or do not wish to attract the attention of the perpetrator of a crime in progress. \n\nCalls made to non-911 emergency numbers (such as the direct line to a police or fire department) might not have automatic location enabled.\n\nCall to 911 calls from are answered by an operator at a PSAP. In addition to the voice transmission, the telephone network also transmits a number associated with the current call, the ANI. The 911 operator (or their computer) at the PSAP searches a database (ALI) for the ANI to find the caller's relevant location.\n\nThe ALI record associated with the query is then returned to the PSAP where the Customer-premises equipment (CPE) correlates that information with the call taker receiving the call and displays the information on their computer screen.\n\nFor landline calls the ANI resembles the caller's phone number. The ALI stores a pre-determined address associated with the caller's telephone number. This address is typically the phone's billing address.\n\nFor wireless calls, the ANI (or \"pseudo-ANI\") is a unique number assigned to each individual 911 call, assigned at a mobile switching center.\n\nIn parallel to the actual voice call, the ALI database gets periodically updated with more granular and recent location information. Cellular networks can determine a more granular location of the caller's device by using triangulation from the cell towers (radiolocation). In addition to triangulation, a second source of location information may be the caller's phone itself (or other cellular device).\n\nMany phones manufactured after 2005 have GPS receivers built in. When the cellular phone detects that the user is placing an emergency call, it begins to transmit its location to a secure server, from which the PSAP can retrieve it. Cellphone manufactures may program the phone to automatically enable GPS functionality (if disabled) when an emergency call is placed, so that it may transmit its location.\n\nThe ALI database is secured and separate from the public phone network by design. It is generally maintained by the Incumbent Local Exchange Carrier (ILEC) under contract by the PSAP. Each ILEC has their own standards for the formatting of the database.\n\nThe ALI is maintained on behalf of local governments by contracted private third parties generally the Incumbent Local Exchange Carrier (ILEC). Often, the contracted 3rd party further subcontracts the actual ALI database management to companies such as Intrado, Bandwidth and TeleCommunication Systems, Inc. The ALI database also feeds the Master Street Address Guide database which is used to route the call to the appropriate PSAP and when the call arrives, the ALI database is queried to determine the location of the caller.\n\nMost ALI databases have a companion database known as the MSAG, Master Street Address Guide. The MSAG describes the exact spelling of streets, street number ranges, and other address elements. When a new account is created, the address is located in the Master Street Address Guide to track the proper Emergency Service Number (ESN) that 911 calls from that phone number should be routed to. Competitive local exchange carriers (CLEC) and other competing wireline carriers negotiate for access to the ALI database in their respective Interconnect Agreement with the ILEC. They populate the database using the ILEC MSAG as a guide.\n\nIf the phone number is not in the ALI database, this is known as \"ALI Failure\"; the call is then passed to default ESN for the call's trunk line group, which is a PSAP designated for this function. The 911 operator must then ask the incoming caller for their location and redirect them to the correct PSAP. The legal penalty in most states for ALI database lookup failure is limited to a requirement that the telephone company fix the database entry.\n\nThe way location is determined varies by the type of originating device or network. \n\nLandline or wireline calls originate from a device connected to a known and fixed location connection to the PSTN. These locations are stored in the Automatic Location Information (ALI) database. This is permitted by special privacy legislation.\n\nLocation information is not passed along by the public phone network; only the calling party's phone number is known to the receiver.\n\nThe billing address associated with a cell phone is not necessarily considered the location to which emergency responders should be sent, since the device is portable. This means that locating the caller is more difficult, which resulted in the second phase of the Enhanced 911 service (E911 Phase 2), which relates to locating wireless or mobile telephone devices.\n\nTo locate a mobile telephone geographically, there are two general approaches. One is to use some form of radiolocation from the cellular network; the other is to use a Global Positioning System receiver built into the phone itself. Both approaches are described by the Radio resource location services protocol (LCS protocol).\n\nRadiolocation in cellular telephony uses base stations. Most often, this is done through triangulation between radio towers. The location of the caller or handset can be determined several ways:\n\n\nThe first two depend on a line of sight, which can be difficult or impossible in mountainous terrain or around skyscrapers. Location signatures actually work \"better\" in these conditions however. TDMA and GSM networks such as T-Mobile 2G use TDOA. AT&T Mobility initially advocated TDOA, but changed to embedded GPS in 2006 for every GSM or UMTS voice-capable device due to improved accuracy.\n\nCode division multiple access (CDMA) networks tend to use handset-based radiolocation technologies, which are technically more similar to radionavigation. GPS is one of those technologies. Alltel, Verizon Wireless, T-Mobile 3G, and Sprint PCS use Assisted GPS.\n\nHybrid solutions, needing both the handset and the network include:\n\n\nMobile phone users may also have a selection to permit location information to be sent to non-emergency phone numbers or data networks, so that it can help people who are simply lost or want other location-based services. By default, this selection is usually turned off, to protect privacy. In areas such as tunnels and buildings, or anywhere else that GPS is not available or reliable, wireless carriers can deploy enhanced location determination solutions such as Co-Pilot Beacon for CDMA networks and LMU's for GSM networks.\n\nThe 3GPP specified protocol for handset geolocation in GSM networks is called Radio Resource Location Protocol.\n\nThe term 911 address refers to a format for specifying where a 911 call originated from (e.g. the address of the landline, or estimated location of a cell phone).\n\nThe 911 address contains a uniform number, the street name, direction (if applicable), and the city. The uniform number is usually assigned by the grid of the existing community. Each county usually has their own policy on how the addressing is done, but for the most part NENA guidelines are followed. These guidelines are expressed by the Master Street Address Guide (MSAG). The exact 911 addresses and associated phone numbers are put into the ALI database.\n\nThe first 911 system was installed in Haleyville, Alabama, in February 1968, as a way to quickly connect a subscriber to the local police station. The system was rapidly adapted and improved by other telephone companies, evolving into the E911 system, which provides both caller location and identification. A pioneering system was in place in Chicago by the mid-1970s, providing both police and fire departments access to the source location of emergency calls. Enhanced 911 is currently deployed in most metropolitan areas in the United States, Canada, and Mexico as well as all of the Cayman Islands.\n\nIn the US, the Wireless Communications and Public Safety Act of 1999, also known as the 911 Act, mandated the use of E911 and designated 911 as the universal emergency number, including both wireline and wireless phone devices.\n\nThe U.S. Federal Communications Commission (FCC) has made several requirements applicable to wireless or mobile telephones:\n\n\nLocation information is used by the wireless network operator to determine to which PSAP to route the call to, and is transmitted to the PSAP for the purpose of sending emergency services to the scene of the incident. \nIn 1996, the U.S. Federal Communications Commission (FCC) issued an order requiring wireless carriers to determine and transmit the location of callers who dial 911. The FCC set up a phased program: Phase I involved sending the location of the receiving antenna for 911 calls, while Phase II sends the location of the calling telephone. Carriers were allowed to choose to implement 'handset based' location by Global Positioning System (GPS) or similar technology in each phone, or 'network based' location by means of triangulation between cell towers. The order set technical and accuracy requirements: carriers using 'handset based' technology must report handset location within 50 meters for 67% of calls, and within 150 meters for 90% of calls; carriers using 'network based' technology must report location within 100 meters for 67% of calls and 300 meters for 90% of calls.\n\nThe order also laid out milestones for implementing wireless location services. Many carriers requested waivers of the milestones, and the FCC granted many of them. By mid-2005, implementation of Phase II was generally underway, limited by the complexity of coordination required from wireless and wireline carriers, PSAPs, and other affected government agencies; and by the limited funding available to local agencies which needed to convert PSAP equipment to display location data (usually on computerized maps).\n\nIn July 2011, the FCC announced a proposed rule requiring that after an eight-year implementation period, at some yet-to-be-determined date in 2019, wireless carriers will be required to meet more stringent location accuracy requirements. If enacted, this rule would require both \"handset based\" and \"network based\" location techniques to meet the same accuracy standard, regardless of the underlying technology used. The rule is likely to have no effect as all major carriers will have already achieved over 85% GPS chipset penetration, and are thus able to meet the standard regardless of their 'network based' location capabilities.\n\nIn 2009, the CRTC required implementation of Phase II Stage 1 for wireless carrier by 1 February 2010, in areas that provide landline E911. Many Canadians now have access to Phase II service.\n\nThe final destination of an E911 call (where the 911 operator sits) is a Public Safety Answering Point (PSAP). There may be multiple PSAPs within the same exchange or one PSAP may cover multiple exchanges. The territories (Emergency Service Zone) covered by a single PSAP is based on the dispatch and response arrangements for the fire, police, and medical services for a particular area. All primary PSAPs have a regional Emergency Service Number (ESN), a number identifying the PSAP.\n\nThe Caller Location Information (CLI) provided is normally integrated into emergency dispatch center's computer-assisted dispatch (CAD) system. Early CAD systems provided text display of the caller's address, call history and available emergency response resources. In 1994, working in cooperation with the emergency response agencies of Covington, KY, 911 Mapping Systems, Inc. founded in 1992 by Robert Graham Thomas Jr., implemented the first real-time on-screen E911 street map display to highlight the caller's position, nearest available emergency responders and other relevant information such as fire hydrants, hazardous materials and/or other data maintained by the city. Shortly thereafter, integrated mapping became a standard and integral part of all CAD systems and continues to evolve alongside 911 response technology. For Wireline E911, the location is an address. For Wireless E911, the location is a coordinate. Not all PSAPs have the Wireless and Wireline systems integrated.\n\nEach telephone company (local exchange carrier, or LEC) has at least two redundant DS0-level (that is, 64 kbit/s, or voice quality) trunks connecting each host office telephone switch to each call center. These trunks are either directly connected to the call center or they are connected to a telephone company central switch that intelligently distributes calls to the PSAPs. These special switches are often known as 911 Selective Routers. Their use is becoming increasingly more common as it simplifies the interconnection between newer ISUP/SS7-based host office switches and the many older PSAP systems.\n\nIf the PSAP receives calls from the telephone company on older analog trunks, they are usually Pulse driven circuits. These circuits are similar to traditional telephone lines, but are formatted to pass the calling party's number (Automatic Number Identification, ANI). For historical reasons, the PSAP will refer to these as CAMA circuits even though Centralized Automatic Message Accounting (CAMA) is actually a reference to the call log.\n\nIf the PSAP receives calls on older-style digital trunks, they are specially formatted Multi-Frequency (MF) trunks that pass the calling party's number (ANI) only. Some of the upgraded PSAPs can receive calls on ISUP trunks controlled by the SS7 protocol. In that case, the calling party's number (ANI) is already present in the SS7 setup message. The Charge Number Parameter contains the ANI.\n\nVoIP enhanced 911 pertains to communications originating from various commercial services provided by companies that send telephone calls across the commercial internet using specialized devices and software applications.\n\nAs Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) technology matured, service providers began to interconnect VoIP with the public telephone network and marketed the VoIP service as a cheap replacement phone service. However, E911 regulations and legal penalties have severely hampered the more widespread adoption of VoIP: VoIP is much more flexible than land line phone service and there is no easy way to verify the physical location of a caller on a nomadic VoIP network at any given time (especially in the case of wireless networks), and so many providers offered services which specifically excluded 911 service so as to avoid the severe E-911 non-compliance penalties. VoIP services tried to improvise, such as routing 911 calls to the administrative phone number of the Public Safety Answering Point, adding on software to track phone locations, etc. \n\nThe Location Information Server is a service that is provided by an access network provider to provide location information to users of the network. To do this, it uses knowledge of network topology and a range of location determination techniques to locate devices that are attached to the network. The precise methods that are used to determine location are dependent on the type of access network and the information that can be obtained from the device.\n\nInitially, the U.S. Federal Communications Commission (FCC) took a hands-off approach to VoIP in order to let the service mature, and also to facilitate competition in the telephony market. In time, this problem reached the headlines of newspapers as individuals were unable to place emergency calls with their VoIP phones. In March 2005, Texas Attorney General Greg Abbott filed a lawsuit against Vonage for deceptive marketing practices by not making it clear that VoIP users had to actually sign up for E911 service.\n\nWhen FCC Chair Kevin Martin replaced FCC Chair Michael Powell, he immediately changed FCC's hand's off policy and moved to impose 911 obligations on VoIP service providers. In 2005, Chair Martin moved FCC to require \"interconnected VoIP services\" to begin to provide 911 service and provide notice to their consumers concerning the 911 limitations. The FCC announced that customers must respond to the E911 VoIP warning and those who do not have their service cut off on August 30, 2005. The FCC extended the deadline to September 28, 2005. The E911 hookup may be directly with the Wireline E911 Network, indirectly through a third party such as a competitive local exchange carrier (CLEC), or by any other technical means. The FCC explained that they felt compelled to issue this mandate because of the public safety concerns. Vonage co-founder Jeff Pulver opined that this was an attempt by FCC Chair Martin to hinder telephony competition to AT&T.\n\nThe 911 obligations were imposed only on \"interconnected VoIP.\" The FCC defined \"interconnected VoIP\" as VoIP over broadband that interconnects with the public switch telephone network. VoIP that is not interconnected, such as two individuals talking to each other over the Internet while playing computer games, does not fall under the obligation.\n\nThere are, however, complicated technological problems with implementing E911 with VoIP, which providers are attempting to solve. VoIP phones are on the Internet and nomadic; the geolocation of the individual placing the 911 call can be very difficult to determine. Service providers are attempting to phase in solutions through the I1, I2, and I3 phases. During I1, the 911 call was routed to the 911 administrative telephone lines without location information. During I2, VoIP services would participate in the public telephone networks location database for the location that is identified with that telephone number. During the I3 solution, VoIP service providers would have a true IP interconnection with Public Safety Answering Points and would be able to provide even more valuable information than the legacy 911 system. Where VoIP phones are mobile, geolocation has additional problems; VoIP service providers are seeking access to mobile phone location databases. These solutions are being developed through the cooperation of the Voice on the Network Coalition and the National Emergency Number Association. Vonage has encouraged its customers to register the locations from which their 911 calls could be dialed with the local public safety answering point. The FCC had continued to add more requirements and mandate a more sophisticated 911 function.\n\nVoIP services have noted an obstacle to full 911 interconnection; in order to interconnect with the Public Safety Answering Point, the VoIP service providers must interconnect with the 911 telephone trunk, which is owned and controlled by their competitors, the traditional fixed-line telephone carriers. This resulted in the New and Emerging Technologies 911 Improvement Act of 2008 which granted interconnection rights to interconnected VoIP services.\n\nIn response to the E911 challenges inherent to IP phone systems, specialized technology has been developed to locate callers in the case of emergency. Some of these new technologies allow the caller to be located down to the specific office on a particular floor of a building. These solutions support a wide range of organizations with IP telephony networks. The solutions are available for service providers offering hosted IP-PBX and residential VoIP services. This increasingly important segment in IP phone technology includes E911 call routing services and automated phone tracking appliances. Many of these solutions have been established according to FCC, CRTC, and NENA i2 standards, in order to help enterprises and service providers reduce liability concerns and meet E911 regulations.\n\nIn recent years there have been numerous important developments in E911 solutions for IP phone technology. The more noteworthy of these developments include:\n\nVoIP & 911 issues are also relevant to Telecom Relay Services utilized by individuals with disabilities.\n\nMulti-line Telephone System (MLTS) pertains to the location of callers dialing 911 from within the private telecommunications networks used by large organizations. A Multi-line Telephone System (MLTS), often referred to as a private branch exchange, is a telecommunications switching system used by large organizations to process calls between employees within the organization and with parties external to the organization. An MLTS may serve a single building, segments of multi-tenant buildings, a group of buildings on a campus or even a number of buildings separated by geography. New communications technologies are making it possible for single MLTS systems to serve locations at far distant places that may span multiple governmental jurisdictions even distant countries.\n\nThe challenge of Enhanced 911 for the MLTS is that information about the location of callers is only available to the extent that the private organization discloses the information. For the organization the challenges of collecting and reporting the information can be significant. Today’s highly mobile work forces and technologies that allow users to relocate without the intervention of an administrator place significant responsibilities on the MLTS owner or operator.\n\nRecent legislation, rules, and regulations in numerous US government jurisdictions have established the burden upon the enterprise style organization to provide accurate location information so that the ALI database may be updated and the processes used by public safety agencies can function properly when an emergency call originates from within a MLTS system.\n\nThe member driven volunteer organization that represents the people who staff the PSAPs, the National Emergency Number Association (NENA.org), has done significant work advocating on the subject of MLTS E911. It is an important contemporary issue of growing concern as enterprise style organizations employ new technologies to create vast private networks that interconnect with the PSTN in ways that do not map to the logic used to locate callers in the Public Enhanced 911 system. The risks to people who initiate a 911 call from and MLTS who are not physically located within the jurisdiction of the agency to which the 911 call is routed and the increasing burdens of misdirected 911 calls upon those agencies is escalating.\n\nIn addition to upgrading communications systems, most counties and communities in the United States have established ordinances (e.g. IRC section R319.1) requiring property owners to standardize the display of house numbers on buildings and along streets and roadways, to allow emergency personnel to more easily identify a given address day or night, even in poor weather. These are normally composed of reflective characters, at least 3 to 6 inches high, on a contrasting reflective background. It is necessary for the address number to be affixed to the building or to a separate structure such as a post, wall, fence, or mailbox, provided that such separate structure is located in front of the building and on the building's side of the street. Compliant signage systems are often advertised as being \"E911 compliant\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2339618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2339618", "title": "Eschenbach (surname)", "text": "Eschenbach (surname)\n\nEschenbach is German surname. Notable people with the surname include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "456180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=456180", "title": "Genius loci", "text": "Genius loci\n\nIn classical Roman religion, a genius loci (plural \"genii loci\") was the protective spirit of a place. It was often depicted in religious iconography as a figure holding attributes such as a cornucopia, patera (libation bowl) or snake. Many Roman altars found throughout the Western Roman Empire were dedicated to a particular \"genius locus\". The Roman imperial cults of the Emperor and the imperial house developed in part in connections with the sacrifices made by neighborhood associations \"(vici)\" to the local \"genius\". These 265 local districts had their cult organised around the \"Lares Compitales\" (guardian spirits or \"lares\" of the crossroads), which the emperor Augustus transformed into \"Lares Augusti\" along with the \"Genius Augusti\". The Emperor's \"genius\" is then regarded as the \"genius loci\" of the Roman Empire as a whole.\n\nRoman examples of these Genii can be found, for example, at the church of St. Giles, Tockenham, Wiltshire where the genius locus is depicted as a relief in the wall of a Norman church built of Roman material. This shows \"a youthful and curly-haired Roman Genius worked in high relief, holding a cornucopia in his left hand and a \"patera\" in his right\", which previously has been \"erroneously identified as Asclepius\".\n\nThe numinous spirits of places in Asia are still honored today in city pillar shrines, outdoor spirit houses and indoor household and business shrines.\n\nIn contemporary usage, \"genius loci\" usually refers to a location's distinctive atmosphere, or a \"spirit of place\", rather than necessarily a guardian spirit. An example of contemporary usage might be along the lines of \"Light reveals the genius loci of a place.\"\n\nAlexander Pope made the Genius Loci an important principle in garden and landscape design with the following lines from \"Epistle IV, to Richard Boyle, Earl of Burlington\":\n\n<poem>Consult the genius of the place in all;\nThat tells the waters or to rise, or fall;\nOr helps th' ambitious hill the heav'ns to scale,\nOr scoops in circling theatres the vale;\nCalls in the country, catches opening glades,\nJoins willing woods, and varies shades from shades,\nNow breaks, or now directs, th' intending lines;\nPaints as you plant, and, as you work, designs.</poem>\n\nPope's verse laid the foundation for one of the most widely agreed principles of landscape architecture. This is the principle that landscape designs should \"always\" be adapted to the context in which they are located.\n\nA priori, archetype, and \"genius loci\" are the primary principals of Neo-Rationalism or New Rationalism. Pioneered by the Italian architect Aldo Rossi, Neo-Rationalism developed in the light of a re-evaluation of the work of Giuseppe Terragni, and gained momentum through the work of Giorgio Grassi. Characterized by elemental vernacular forms and an adaptation to the existing environment, the Neo-Rationalist style has adherents beyond architecture in the greater world of art.\n\nIn the context of modern architectural theory, \"genius loci\" has profound implications for place-making, falling within the philosophical branch of \"phenomenology\". This field of architectural discourse is explored most notably by the theorist Christian Norberg-Schulz in his book, \"Genius Loci: Towards a Phenomenology of Architecture\".\n\nIn modern works of fantasy, such as \"Dungeons and Dragons\" or \"The Dresden Files\", a genius loci is an intelligent spirit or magical power that resides in a place. Very few genius loci of this form are able to move from their native area, either because they are \"part of the land\" or because they are bound to it. Genius loci are usually portrayed as being extremely powerful and usually also very intelligent, though there is a great deal of variability on these points. Some versions are nearly omnipotent and omniscient inside the area they inhabit, while others are simply vast, semi-sentient wellsprings of magical energy. This power almost never extends beyond the border of the genius loci.\n\nDifferent settings give different explanations for the existence of genius loci. In most cases, however, the intelligent, magical entity simply develops from the similarly named \"spirit of place\" over a great deal of time. In other settings, genius loci are formed by powerful magical events, and in others they are the results of ley lines, mana pools, or an equivalent.\n\n"}
{"id": "5244370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5244370", "title": "Geography of South America", "text": "Geography of South America\n\nThe geography of South America contains many diverse regions and climates. Geographically, South America is generally considered a continent forming the southern portion of the landmass of the Americas, south and east of the Panama–Colombia border by most authorities, or south and east of the Panama Canal by some. South and North America are sometimes considered a single continent or supercontinent, while constituent regions are infrequently considered subcontinents.\n\nSouth America became attached to North America only recently (geologically speaking) with the formation of the Isthmus of Panama some 3 million years ago, which resulted in the Great American Interchange. The Andes, likewise a comparatively young and seismically restless mountain range, runs down the western edge of the continent; the land to the east of the northern Andes is largely tropical rain forest, the vast Amazon River basin. The continent also contains drier regions such as eastern Patagonia and the extremely arid Atacama desert.\n\nThe South American continent also includes various islands, most of which belong to countries on the continent. The Caribbean territories are grouped with North America. The South American nations that border the Caribbean Sea—including Colombia, Venezuela, Guyana, Suriname, and French Guiana—are also known as Caribbean South America.\n\nThe geographical structure of South America is deceptively simple for a continent-sized landmass. The continent's topography is often likened to a huge bowl owing to its flat interior almost ringed by high mountains. With the exception of narrow coastal plains on the Pacific and Atlantic Oceans, there are three main topographic features: the Andes, a central lowland, and the extensive Brazilian and Guiana Highlands in the east.\n\nThe Andes are a Cenozoic mountain range formed (and still forming) Altiplano and a number of major valleys such as the Rio Magdalena. These contain three of the world's highest capitals: Bogotá, Quito and highest of all, La Paz, Bolivia. The southern Andes have been eroded by the Patagonian Ice Sheet and are much lower and narrower. There are a number of large glaciers in the northern part, but from latitude 19°S to 28°S the climate is so arid that no permanent ice can form even on the highest peaks. Permafrost, however, is widespread in this section of the Altiplano and continuous above .\n\nThe climate of the coastal belt west of the Andes shows violent contrasts, including two of the world's wettest regions in the Colombian Chocó and southern Chile, and the world's driest desert, the Atacama. This dry area is cooled by the Humboldt Current and upwelling, giving rise to the largest fisheries in the world. There are two small transition zones between the perhumid and perarid regions: around Guayaquil with summer rain, and the Mediterranean climate region of central Chile. Both these regions have highly erratic rainfall strongly influenced by El Niño events, which bring major floods. In contrast, the high plateaux of the Andes are drier than normal during El Niño episodes.\n\nThe very fertile soils from the erosion of the Andes formed the basis for the continent's only pre-Columbian state civilizations: those of the Inca Empire and its predecessors (Chavín, Nazca, Mochica, etc.). The area is still a major agricultural region. The Altiplano contains many rare minerals such as copper, tin, mercury ore. The Atacama is mined for its nitrates. Peru east of the Andes is regarded as the most important biodiversity hotspot in the world with its unique forests that form the western edge of the world's largest rainforest, the Amazon Rainforest.\n\nEast of the Andes is a large lowland drained by a small number of rivers, including the two largest in the world by drainage area—the Amazon River and the more southerly Paraná River. The other major river of this central lowland is the Orinoco River, which has a natural channel linking it with the Amazon. Most of this central lowland is sparsely populated because the soils are heavily leached, but in the south is the very fertile pampas of Argentina—one of the world's major food-producing regions where wheat and beef cattle are pre-eminent. The natural vegetation of the northern lowlands are either savanna in the northern \"llanos\" and southern \"campos\", or tropical rainforest throughout most of the Amazon basin. Efforts to develop agriculture, outside of fertile floodplains of rivers descending from the Andes, have been largely failures because of the soils. Cattle have long been raised in the \"llanos\" of northern Colombia and Venezuela, but petroleum is now the dominant industry in the northern lowlands, making Venezuela the richest country in the continent.\n\nThe eastern highlands are much older than the Andes, being pre-Cambrian in origin, but are still rugged in places, especially in the wet tepuis of Venezuela, Guyana and Roraima. The Amazon River has cut a large valley through a former highland, and to the east is a relatively low plateau comprising the Nordeste and Southeast regions of Brazil. In the north of this region is the arid \"sertão\", a poor region consistently affected by extremely erratic rainfall, and the humid \"zona da mata\", once home of the unique Atlantic Rainforest with many species not found in the Amazon, and now a centre for sugarcane. Further south, the main land use is coffee, while São Paulo is the economic heart of the continent with its industry.\n\nSouth of about Santa Catarina, the highlands fade out to low plains in Uruguay.\n\nEast of the Andes in Argentina, there are a number of rugged, generally dry \"islands\", the highest of which is the Sierra de Cordoba near the city of that name. Argentine Patagonia is a Paleozoic plateau now heavily dissected by rivers flowing from the Andes.\n\nThe largest country in South America by far, in both area and population, is Brazil. Regions in South America include the Andean States, the Guianas and the Southern Cone.\n\nAs part of the Hadley model of atmospheric circulation, the equator is characterised by the ascending branches of separate meridional cells, driven by intense insolation. The vertical convection draws in air from the surrounding atmosphere, known as the trade winds. As these inwards flows of air converge they reduce horizontal wind speed, and as they rise, they form precipitation. The vertical convection also results in a net export of heat and freshwater from the lower atmosphere into the troposphere This system is known as the ITCZ. The location of the ITCZ is centred on the areas of highest insolation, although it is more stationary over the oceans than landmasses.\n\nIn the Atlantic region, the ITCZ is clearly developed, and the spatial extent of the ITCZ reaches a minimum close to the equator during the boreal spring (March–May), while extending to a maximum of 10°–15°N in late boreal summer (August). No comprehensive theory for ITCZ formation and spatial variation has been validated, although several hypotheses have been proposed. Some studies advance ideas that describe one or more atmospheric cells over the equator, while others state that the position of the ITCZ depends on Ekman pumping efficiency and moisture availability. Whichever hypothesis best represents the natural system, it is clear that the dynamics of the ITCZ are influenced by several other external climate systems. These include continental convection and equatorially asymmetric sea surface temperature (SST) distribution. This asymmetry is evident in the northward bias of the ITCZ´s location, which is maintained by a positive feedback between wind speed, evaporation and SST.\n\nWhereas the ITCZ has a global extent, South America is subject to its own unique climate patterns. which have been organised into the South American Monsoon System (SAMS). As an integrated component in the global climate system, the SAMS is influenced the Atlantic sector of the ITCZ, variability in the adjacent Pacific and Atlantic Oceans, the Andean and central-east Brazil topography, complex land surface processes and relations with land use change, and interactions involving topography and soil moisture. The SAMS framework comprises several distinct subcomponents, which are discussed below:\n\n\nThe development of the SAMS during spring is characterised by a rapid southward shift of the convective region from northwestern South America to the highland region of the central Andes and to the southern Amazon basin. The South Atlantic High moves eastward, reflecting the pressure reduction over the continent and the intensity and direction of the zonal flow over the nearby tropics and sub-tropics. This change in flow direction is evident in changes to terrestrial windfields over extreme southwestern Amazonia, with winds changing from northerlies to northwesterlies, and over eastern Brazil, where the winds turn from easterlies to northeasterlies. The southward moisture flux east of the Andes also increases, bringing humidity to central and southeast Brazil.\n\nAs the SAMS progresses a continental-scale gyre transports moisture westward from the tropical Atlantic Ocean to the Amazon basin and then southward toward the extratropics of South America. The diabatic heating released in the SAMS region seems to promote that gyre, and the maintenance of the South Atlantic subtropical high during austral summer. It has also been suggested that is the subsidence over the cool SSTs of the eastern Pacific and extensive stratocumulus decks provide a radiative heat sink to the tropical atmosphere that can balance the adiabatic warming due to the monsoonal descent.\n\nThe decay phase of the monsoon begins between March and May, as convection shifts gradually northward toward the equator. During April and May, the low-level southward flow of moisture from the western Amazonia weakens, as more frequent incursions of drier and cooler air from the mid-latitudes begin to occur over the interior of subtropical South America.\n\n"}
{"id": "38648953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38648953", "title": "Geology of France", "text": "Geology of France\n\nThe regional geology of France is commonly divided into the Paris Basin, the Armorican Massif, the Massif Central, the Aquitaine Basin, the Pyrenees, the Alps, the Côte languedocienne, the Sillon rhodanien, the Massif des Vosges, the Massif Ardennais, the Alsace graben (Rhine graben) and Flanders Basin.\n\nThe regions Alsace, Franche-Comté, Rhône-Alpes and Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur are part of the Western Alps. Sediment from the Valais ocean crop out in the Versoyen unit. The basement of the Briançonnais microcontinent crop out at Gran Paradiso, Dora Maira, Ambine, Vanoise and Ruitor. The Briançonnais cover sequences crop out in the Zone Houillère. External massifs include the Belledonne massif, Mont Blanc massif, Pelvoux-Écrins massif and the Argentera massif. Sediments from the Piemont-Liguria Ocean crop out in Embrunais and Ubaye. The Jura mountains are part of the Helvetic nappes, that represent deposits from the European margin that were involved in the Alpine orogeny.\n\nThe geographic region of the Massif Central coincides with the geologic region with the same name. It is part of the Variscan orogenic cycle. It was also a region of active volcanism during the Cenozoic.\n"}
{"id": "19087833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19087833", "title": "Gerlovo", "text": "Gerlovo\n\nGerlovo or Gerilovo () is a small geographic and ethnographic region in Northern Bulgaria, a hilly fertile valley in the northeastern Balkan Mountains, south of the Ludogorie region. It lies between the Lisa, Preslav-Dragoevo and Kotel-Varbitsa mountains and covers much of Varbitsa municipality of Shumen Province, with smaller parts in Omurtag municipality (Targovishte Province) and Kotel municipality (Sliven Province). The main river is the Kamchiya, which runs through the entire valley and forms the Ticha Reservoir; the only sizable town is Varbitsa. Four strategically important mountain passes run through the region: the Preslav Pass, Dervent Pass, Kotel Pass and Varbitsa Pass.\n\nThe population mostly consists of Bulgarians and Turks; there is an Alian community. \n\nGerlovo Beach on Ioannes Paulus II Peninsula in Livingston Island, Antarctica is named after Gerlovo region.\n\n"}
{"id": "3628714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3628714", "title": "Governor of Anguilla", "text": "Governor of Anguilla\n\nThe Governor of Anguilla is the representative of the monarch British Overseas Territory of Anguilla. The Governor is appointed by the monarch on the advice of the British government. The Governor is the highest authority on Anguilla, but daily business is handled by local Anguillan elected officials. The main role of the Governor is to appoint the Chief Minister of Anguilla.\n\nThe Governor's official residence is Government House at Old Ta. The Governor has his own flag, the Union Flag defaced with the Coat of Arms of Anguilla.\n\nThe current Governor is Tim Foy, who was sworn in on 21 August 2017.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36889164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36889164", "title": "Historical hydroculture", "text": "Historical hydroculture\n\nThis is a history of notable hydroculture phenomena. Ancient hydroculture proposed sites, and modern revolutionary works are mentioned. Included in this history are all forms of aquatic and semi-aquatic based horticulture that focus on flora: aquatic gardening, semi-aquatic crop farming, hydroponics, aquaponics, passive hydroponics, and modern aeroponics.\n\nOne of the wonders of the ancient world was irrigated by the Euphrates River. It is uncertain if Sammu-ramat or Nebuchadnezzar II ordered them to be built between 8th and 7th century BC Babylonia. The gardens were built partially on top of ziggurats, and plants were irrigated on channels. No direct evidence of the Hanging Gardens of Babylon exists. However, there is archeological evidence, uncovered by Robert Koldewey, that ancient structures exist to support the technology used for these gardens. Ancient Greeks Diodorus Siculus and Strabo have noted the Hanging Babylonian Gardens.\n\nA Chinampa is a floating garden armada in a lake from the Xochimilco region, once Chinampan, of Mexico. This floating garden, still in use, can have an area of up to 10 meters by 200 meters.\n\nThe agricultural output of the chinampa allowed the postclassic Aztec civilization to flourish.\n\nHistorically, fish have been raised within flooded rice fields in Indochina and China.\n\nThere are 500-year-old bridges made by living roots in India, sculpted by the War-Khasis. These trees span rivers, and may be limited in connectivity to hydroculture.\n\nOrchids are well known for their aerial roots.\n\nŌhi'a Lehua, Metrosideros polymorpha, is a Hawaiian plant with roots that can grow suspended in extinct lava tubes. The roots of this plant are able to penetrate deep into the volcanic rock, to reach these hollow tubes, where they can collect moisture.\n"}
{"id": "22433942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22433942", "title": "ISO 3166-2:FK", "text": "ISO 3166-2:FK\n\nISO 3166-2:FK is the entry for the Falkland Islands in ISO 3166-2, part of the ISO 3166 standard published by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO), which defines codes for the names of the principal subdivisions (e.g., provinces or states) of all countries coded in ISO 3166-1.\n\nCurrently no ISO 3166-2 codes are defined in the entry for the Falkland Islands. The territory has no defined subdivisions.\n\nThe Falkland Islands are officially assigned the ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 code .\n\n"}
{"id": "251237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=251237", "title": "ISO 3166-2:GB", "text": "ISO 3166-2:GB\n\nISO 3166-2:GB is the entry for the United Kingdom in ISO 3166-2, part of the ISO 3166 standard published by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO), which defines codes for the names of the principal subdivisions (e.g., provinces or states) of all countries coded in ISO 3166-1. The codes and structures used are provided to the ISO by British Standards and the Office for National Statistics.\n\nCurrently for the United Kingdom, ISO 3166-2 codes are defined for the following subdivisions:\n\nThe four constituent parts of the United Kingdom are described as either \"country\" (England, Wales and Scotland) or \"province\" (Northern Ireland). Three other geopolitical terms are included in the standard and designated \"nations\" (formerly \"included for completeness\"):\n\nEach code consists of two parts, separated by a hyphen. The first part is , the ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 code of the United Kingdom. The second part is three letters, which is the British Standard BS 6879 three-letter code of the subdivision.\n\nThough is the United Kingdom's ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 code, is exceptionally reserved for the United Kingdom on the request of the country. Its main usage is the .uk internet ccTLD.\n\nSubdivision names are listed as in the ISO 3166-2 standard published by the ISO 3166 Maintenance Agency (ISO 3166/MA).\n\nBS 6879 gives alternative name forms in Welsh (cy) for some of the Welsh unitary authorities (together with alternative code elements). Since this part of ISO 3166 does not allow for duplicate coding of identical subdivisions, such alternative names in Welsh and code elements are shown for information purposes only in square brackets after the English name of the subdivision.\n\nWales was changed from being described as a \"principality\" to being described as a \"country\" in the December 2011 update to the standard. England and Scotland were maintained as \"country\" and Northern Ireland was maintained as \"province\".\n\nThe following changes to the entry have been announced in newsletters by the ISO 3166/MA since the first publication of ISO 3166-2 in 1998. ISO stopped issuing newsletters in 2013.\n\nThe following changes to the entry are listed on ISO's online catalogue, the Online Browsing Platform:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14923316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14923316", "title": "International availability of McDonald's products", "text": "International availability of McDonald's products\n\nMcDonald's Corporation () is the world's largest chain of fast food restaurants, serving around 68 million customers daily in 119 countries. McDonald's traces its origins to a 1940 restaurant in San Bernardino, California. After expanding within the United States, McDonald's became an international corporation in 1967, when it opened a location in Richmond, Canada. By the end of the 1970s, McDonald's restaurants existed in five of the Earth's seven continents; an African location came in 1992 in Cape Town, South Africa.\n\nIn order to cater to local tastes and culinary traditions, and often in respect of particular laws or religious beliefs, McDonald's offers regionalized versions of its menu among and within different countries. As a result, products found in one country or region may not be found in McDonald's restaurants in other countries.\n\nIn 2001, McDonald's introduced the McFalafel sandwich in its Egypt locations. These restaurants also offer a Chicken Big Mac and Fish Mac, variations on the standard Big Mac which substitute breaded chicken or fish, respectively, for the usual beef patties. In the summer of 2008, McDonald's introduced fish fingers with tartar dipping sauce as a side in Egyptian restaurants. Early 2010 saw the introduction of Egyptian cookies to the Cairo location. Egypt has almost 70 locations throughout the country.\n\nThe McArabia, a grilled chicken sandwich from Morocco. In 2005, a product called the McSahara was briefly sold. In late 2006, the Chicken Mythic, \"Petit Plaisirs\" (\"small pleasures,\" a sandwich usually made from chicken or beef), and a 280-gram Recette Moutarde (\"mustard burger\") were released. During the Islamic holy month of Ramadan, a special menu is offered for the breaking of the fast, including local specialties such as dates, milk, and harira.\n\nAs in all McDonald's locations in the Islamic Middle East, food in Bahraini locations is halal. In addition to the McArabia, Bahraini locations offer, beginning in March 2009, the McCrispy, a meal consisting of up to three chicken fingers with a choice of barbecue, sweet and sour, or garlic sauce.\n\nIn China, Chicken McNuggets can come with the traditional barbecue, sweet and sour, honey and hot mustard sauces; or even a special chili garlic sauce, which is popular in China. Chinese menus also include crispy Buffalo chicken wings, called McWings. All chicken burgers offered in Chinese McDonald's use thigh fillet (e.g., Premium Grilled Thigh Fillet Burger, Hot and Spicy Grilled Thigh Fillet Burger), rather than breast meat, which is preferred in western countries.\n\nUnique ice cream flavors such as Matcha Green Tea ice cream is available.\nPies come in two standard flavors: pineapple or taro, although special flavors including chocolate, apple, banana, and azuki bean have also been offered on a limited basis.\n\nThere is a seasonal Chinese New Year meal available, including the Grilled Chicken Burger and curly fries, with a horoscope of the twelve zodiac animals of Chinese astrology and traditional red packets (\"lai see\").\n\nA unique feature of Chinese McDonald's locations is the \"McExpress\" walk-up window, which sells a small range of drinks and ice cream desserts. Most McExpress windows are attached to restaurants, but in some cases, they can be physically independent, typically in locations such as shopping malls, department stores and subway stations. Most major urban locations offer delivery for an extra fee. Deliveries are usually made by electrically powered scooters, although in several cities where motorcycle bans are in place, a conventional courier bicycle is used. The food is normally carried in a large insulated backpack.\n\nHong Kong hosts some of the world's busiest McDonald's with many operating 24 hours a day. Breakfasts include pasta soups with sausage or chicken. Locations offer cups of corn as substitutes for French fries or à la carte. Desserts include soft serve ice cream in azuki bean and mung bean flavors; pineapple or red bean sundaes are sometimes offered.\n\nA selection of seasonal or other limited-time foods is available, such as spicy French fries, the Shogun Burger (a teriyaki pork patty with lettuce served on a sesame seed bun), salads, soups such as tomato and pumpkin, taco flatbreads, the Rice Fantastic (a burger-like entree with rice patties instead of buns). Other such specialties have included shrimp burgers, Wasabi Filet O' Fish, onion rings, and Shake Shake fries, flavored French fries in flavors such as seaweed, chargrill, French onion, and salt and pepper. During the local Bun Festival, restaurants on the island of Cheung Chau sell mushroom burgers instead of hamburgers and other meat products.\n\nToys, gift and other non-food promotion products are offered from time to time.\n\nIndian McDonald's serve the Chicken Maharaja Mac, a grilled chicken double patty with habanero sauce and Veg Maharaja Mac, cheese and corn double patty with cocktail sauce. Apart from these, the McSpicy burgers/wraps, McGrill and Pizza McPuff are sold in India.\n\nIn 2016, McDonald's released two limited edition burgers called the Mexican and Lebanese McAloo Tikki. The Mexican burger consists of jalapeños, tomatoes and a Mexican marinara sauce; while its Lebanese counterpart is loaded with harissa mayonnaise sauce and gherkins. Both these burgers contain the signature aloo patty with cornmeal dusted buns.<ref name=\"Mexican McAloo Tikki v/s Lebanese McAloo Tikki\"></ref>\n\nPast promotional items have included the McPaneer and Grilled Chicken Royale, Mexican Spice Chicken and Veg, Asian Hot Garlic Dip and African Peri Peri Shake Shake (as part of the Spice Fest) Indi-McSpicy and the McCurry Pan.\n\nMcDonald's in India do not serve beef products, in deference to Hindu beliefs. Meat and vegetarian meals are prepared in separate areas of the restaurant due to religious laws; cooks preparing vegetarian dishes wear a distinctive green apron.\n\nTo accommodate Muslim-majority population, all McDonald's in Indonesia are certified halal, which means they do not serve bacon or pork patties, while serving only beef, chicken, and fish. Local items include crispy and spicy fried chicken; the McRice, a small mound of steamed rice wrapped in paper and available to supersize; McSoup, a chicken flavored soup with bits of croutons and vegetables; and \"Buryam\" (short for \"bubur ayam\" or chicken congee), later renamed as \"Bubur Ayam Spesial\" with the addition of fried egg topping. \"Sambal\" chili sauce, an essential component of Indonesian cuisine, and tomato ketchup are available as condiments.\n\nMcDonald's fried chicken, McRice, and fruit tea are sold together as PaNas (\"paket nasi\" or \"rice package\") with an additional sachet of \"sambal\" chili sauce. This adopts the Indonesians' way of consuming \"ayam goreng\" (fried chicken) with steamed rice and \"sambal\".\n\nOther than fried chicken with rice and \"bubur ayam\" chicken rice congee, locals' preference of rice-based food is accommodated further by the introduction of Chicken with Spicy Tomato and Chicken Teriyaki, which is a bowl of steamed rice topped with strips of fried chicken patty with sauces and vegetables, similar to the Japanese donburi (rice bowl) fashion of serving.\n\nMcDonald's in Indonesia also promotes some seasonal foods, sold only within a limited certain period of time. Those limited periods include Chinese New Year, Ramadhan, and Independence Day specials.\n\nDuring Chinese New Year, a Beef Prosperity Burger, consisting of two beef patties covered in black pepper sauce and topped with diced onions, is sold.\n\nDuring Ramadhan, McDonald's Indonesia has offered BBQ Beef Flatbread (2014), Curry Beef Delight (2015), Moroccan Burger (2016) and Ayam Kremes (2017).\n\nIn certain periods, such as August (the month of Indonesian independence), McDonald's Indonesia launched local-inspired dishes such as the Burger Sate, a hamburger with satay sauce (spicy ground peanut sauce), with Teh Soda Markisa (passion fruit tea soda); Local-inspired dessert include McFlurry with \"markisa\" (passion fruit) and \"rujak pedas\" (spicy mango rujak) flavour.\n\nThe only entirely kosher McDonald's are in Israel and Argentina. In these locations, patties are barbecued on charcoal rather than fried. Some kosher locations serve milk based desserts, but in separate booths, allowing for full separation of dairy and meat products in food preparation areas. However, most of the McDonald's outlets in Israel are not kosher service, as they serve cheeseburgers, which mix dairy and meat products.\n\nSpecialty items in Israeli McDonald's include the McShawarma and McKebab, both served on flatbread. On January 18, 2011, McDonald's introduced the McFalafel sandwich in Israel, but withdrew the item six months later. Within the last few years they have added a vegetarian option, corn sticks (which are bite sized corn shniztels).\n\nRegular menu items in Japanese McDonald's include: the Teriyaki McBurger, with ground pork patties, mayonnaise, lettuce, and teriyaki sauce; Shaka Shaka Chicken, a fried chicken strip served in a paper pouch, with cheese or pepper seasonings to shake in the bag; and the Fillet-O-Ebi (shrimp), with a fried shrimp patty and mustard. Breakfast options include a hot dog with pickle relish, ketchup, and mustard,then for lunch and dinner they serve the Chilli McHotdog with egg and chilli sauce. As well as regular soft drinks (which in Japan include grape flavoured Fanta and iced tea), McDonald's in Japan also serve cartons of milk, Minute Maid orange juice and \"Yassai Seikatsu\", a type of vegetable juice.\n\nSeasonal and limited-time items have included:\n\nOn United States military establishments in Japan (like the US Naval Base in Yokosuka), both American and Japanese menus are sold, depending on availability.\n\nJapan has made \"American burgers\". The burgers in Japan are based on imaginations and symbolisms of burgers from different regions of the U.S. Such as Idaho burgers.\n\nAll McDonald's in Malaysia are certified halal. Regular menu items include the Spicy Chicken McDeluxe, a burger with crispy marinated chicken, lettuce, and special sauce in a cornmeal bun, the Bubur Ayam McD (\"McD Chicken Porridge\"), chicken strips in rice porridge with scallions, sliced ginger, fried shallots, and diced chilies, and the Ayam Goreng McD (\"McD's Fried Chicken\"), large chicken strips made just like the ones sold at KFC restaurants served in two-piece or three-piece meals. The Ayam Goreng McD was introduced as McDonald's Fried Chicken in 1986. The product's name was changed to Chicken McCrispy in 2000 and again to Ayam Goreng McD in 2002 to better suit the country's culture.\n\nOther seasonal and limited-time specialties have included the Bubur Ikan McD (a fish variant of the Bubur Ayam McD), the Grilled Chicken Foldover (equivalent to the McArabia), the Grilled Chicken Burger and spicy McNuggets. Specialty desserts have included a kiwifruit sundae, served in 2000 in Kuala Lumpur.\n\nLike in Singapore and Indonesia, during Chinese New Year, Prosperity Burgers are sold. These come in beef and chicken varieties. In 2011, these were served with a McFizz, a specialty beverage mixing Minute Maid orange juice and Sprite, and Curly Fries.\n\nAnother limited time promotional item that appears almost yearly is the Samurai Burger, a large beef burger dipped in teriyaki sauce. In 2012 it was promoted with two new sides, a Sakura McFizz (Sprite + Ribena), and the Katsu Curry McShakers. They also serve a unique 'Taro Pie, a pie made of taro.\n\nAll McDonald's in Pakistan are certified halal. Pakistani menus resemble those of Middle Eastern and South Asian locations. McArabias and Spicy Chicken Burgers are popular in Pakistan. A Chicken Big Mac is also available. In addition to apple pie, McDonald's Pakistan serves choco-orange pie and blueberry custard pie, which is fried. All McDonald's Pakistan menu items with the exception of ice cream cones are also available for delivery.\n\nMost Filipinos colloquially refer to McDonald's as \"McDo\" (equivalent to \"Mickey D's\"), and the term has been adapted by McDonald's Philippines, even naming most of their products after the term. Menu items in McDonald's in the Philippines include McSpaghetti, Chicken McDo, Burger McDo and Crispy Chicken Sandwich, in order to compete with the country's largest fast food retail Jollibee. From 2001 to 2006 the McRice, steamed rice formed into buns, was available as a replacement for bread buns on beef and chicken sandwiches. Breakfast menus include longaniza, a Philippine sausage, served with rice and a fried egg, and the Hamdesal, a Pandesal bun with pineapple glaze syrup, mayonnaise, and Canadian bacon served with scrambled eggs, cheese, or both.\n\nSome pies come in pineapple and taro flavors, although the McDonald's Apple Pie is served in all locations. Only select locations serve milkshakes. Twister Fries is also served seasonally, as well as Shake Shake Fries, which are McDonald's French Fries that come in a paper bag and served with a packet of flavored powder (Barbeque, Cheesy Butter, Sour Cream, Ketchup, and Pizza flavors); customers must administer the flavoring to the bag of fries themselves, shaking the bag until the powder is evenly distributed among the fries. They are available annually.\n\nMcDonald's in the Philippines also promotes movie tie-in products seasonally, such as the Banana-Oreo McFlurry and Banana McFloat during the release of the Minions movie in 2015.\n\nAll McDonald's in Saudi Arabia are certified halal. Saudi locations serve the Spicy McChicken, McArabia, and the Big Tasty, the latter of which is also available in some European locations.\n\nAll McDonald's in Singapore are certified halal. Singaporean locations offer the McSpicy, a spicy chicken burger. A 24-hour McDelivery service is available in all locations on the island.\n\nThe curry sauce is a dip unique to Singapore and is the favourite complementary dip to Chicken McNuggets.\n\nIn 2011, due to congestion at the United States' West Coast ports, the popular chicken nugget dip was unavailable for a period of time, causing a public outcry. A similar crisis happened in 2015.\n\nIn July 2016, McDonald's launched a limited edition take-home bottle of the curry sauce (375ml) and is limited to four purchases per single receipt. The news was met with overwhelming popularity and several outlets ran out of stock on the item extremely quickly.\n\nMcDonald's has also introduced several special additions to the Singapore menu, such as the Salted Egg York Chicken Burger in 2016, coupled with salt & pepper shaker fries and Gula Melaka McFlurry.\n\nMcDonald's locations in South Korea serve a shrimp burger as well as a Bulgogi Burger, a pork patty in bulgogi marinade. The bulgogi-flavored sauce was developed by Ottogi, a large South Korean food manufacturer that provides all of the condiments to the country's McDonald's. A 24-hour McDelivery service was launched in 2007 and now is available across South Korea. McDelivery also has an app available on both Google Play and the Apple Store.\n\nDessert options include affogato. Former options included a green tea McFlurry and the McBingsu, a seasonal option similar to patbingsu.\n\nMcDonald's in Taiwan serve \"kao fan\" (烤飯, \"kǎo fàn\") (literally \"baked rice\"), a burger-like entrée with rice patties instead of buns. It is modelled on the eponymous product of McDonald's Japanese rival, MOS Burger. McDonald's locations in Taiwan sell fried chicken legs to compete with KFC. Additionally, corn soup is available as a substitute for French fries or à la carte.\n\nIn Thailand, McDonald's serves the Samurai Pork Burger, with teriyaki sauce, lettuce, and mayonnaise. As in other Asian markets, Thai McDonald's sell fried chicken and spicy chicken wings. Chilli sauce is available as a condiment, along with ketchup. Other Thailand-specific items include rice patties made with jasmine rice, the Caribbean Shrimp Burger, and a salad shaker based on \"som tam\" papaya salad. McDonald's restaurants in Thailand also serve the Mega animals Mac (known as the Double Big Mac) all year long.\n\nBetween October 1 and 13, 2013, or until supplies ran out, McDonald's offered a \"McVeggie\" burger to coincide with the tradition of many people of Chinese descent only eating vegetarian food during the annual \"Kin J\" period. The McVeggie is an all vegetable fried patty consisting of potatoes, beets, peas and carrot topped with lettuce and teriyaki sauce.\n\nAll McDonald's meat in Turkey are certified halal by Pinar, a Turkish company. Restaurants offer the Turkish drink ayran and the McTurco, a type of kebab with chicken or beef. Turkish locations also serve onion rings, the Mega Mac (known as the Double Big Mac) and the Kofteburger, with a spiced mincemeat patty.\n\nIn the United Arab Emirates, as of 2016, McDonald's standard \"a-la-carte\" menu include the hamburger (marketed as \"beefburger\"), cheeseburger, double cheeseburger, chicken burger, veggie burger, Quarter Pounder with Cheese, Big Mac, Mega Mac, Big Tasty, McRoyale, McChicken, Spicy McChicken, Chicken Mac, Chicken Mega Mac, Grand Chicken (Classic, Deluxe, Special, and Spicy variants), McArabia Chicken, Chicken McNuggets, and Filet-O-Fish sandwiches. In some outlets, the Indian-inspired Mc Aloo Tikki burger is also served as part of the McSavers and Happy Meal lines.\n\nThe McArabia initially was available as both a chicken and beef kofta variants, but only the chicken remained as standard, although the kofta and sujuk variants are sometimes reintroduced in limited promotional runs. Other limited edition sandwiches included The Asian, The Mexican, The French, and The Turkish. The standard menu formerly carried other McDonald's staples such as the Chicken Fillet, the Spicy Chicken Fillet, and the McWings.\n\nMcDonald's in the U.A.E. is a certified halal chain.\n\nVietnam serves broken rice also known as Cơm tấm, named simply as cơm. The dish consists of broken rice, grilled pork and various other sides that come at an extra price. \nBánh mì(General term for bread) is also served and looks very similar to a Subway sandwich.\n\nBelgian McDonald's serve the Croque McDo, consisting of two slices of Emmental cheese and a slice of ham toasted between two hamburger buns. This is a variation of the traditional croque-monsieur sandwich found in France and Belgium. The \"Belgo\" burger is a hamburger with bacon, Belgian Maredsous cheese, roasted onions, and cocktail sauce.\n\nThe McCountry sandwich is a regular menu item in Croatian McDonald's restaurants, consisting of two pork sausage patties on a bun with cheese, lettuce, tomato, onion, and a special sauce. Another regular menu item is the McToast, a ham and cheese sandwich on toast. The Maestro Burger can also be found which is normally seen in the Netherlands. Seasonal and promotional offers include Greek and Italian offerings.\n\nMcDonald's in Cyprus sells the Greek Mac, a Big Mac variant with pita bread and tzatziki sauce, and the Greek Chicken, a Greek Mac with chicken patties instead of beef. A shrimp burger is also sold during the period of Lent when Orthodox Christians don't eat meat. This only applies to the Republic of Cyprus, and not the northern Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, where due to the lack of international recognition, McDonald's does not exist.\n\nThe McCountry sandwich served in Croatia is also available in the Czech Republic.\n\nIn 2012, McDonald's added McSmažák, a variation on smažený sýr, a type of cheese sandwich. It is similar to the Slovak McSyr.\n\nIn Denmark, every McDonald's serves a small size chicken burger called \"Chicken Salsa Cheese\". As similar to Finland and Sweden's \"El Maco\", Danish McDonald's locations sells \"El Maco Jr.\": A small size \"El Maco\". Also following its other Scandinavian cousins, Danish McDonald's serve a Daim McFlurry.\n\nIn Finland, most McDonald's hamburgers can be ordered with a rye bun, based on the success of the promotional \"McRuis\" (McRye) burger. \"El Maco\" is a burger with salsa and sour cream sauce. The El Maco meal is served with a barbecue spice mixture and a paper bag in which the fries and the spice mixture are poured, similar to Japan's Shaka Shaka Chicken. In 2018 McDonald's released the Big Mac with bacon. Also same as in Sweden, they are offering McVegan patty for vegans in wraps, sallad or as a burger. Macarons are also served as a McCafe product. In early 2018 they released Valio Oltermanni Juustonapit that is basically small cheese nuggets filled with the famous Finnish cheese.\n\nIn France, McDonald's offers donuts for breakfast and Kronenbourg 1664 beer in 25 or 33 cl measures. The Croque McDo and various \"Petit Plaisir\" items are available, as in Belgium and Morocco, respectively. In 2016, McDonald's launched a summer menu, called the \"American Summer\" Menu, with one burger containing crispy peppers.\n\nStandard menu items at German McDonald's include the Hamburger Royal TS, Caesar salads, one Veggieburger called Veggie Clubhouse, and Caesar, honey mustard, and Ranch chicken wraps. The McRib sandwich, a seasonal item in most countries, is a permanent menu item in Germany.\n\nAs of Mid-February 2013, McDonald's Germany started selling the McCurrywurst with bread roll or Fries, a hot sausage with tangy tomato sauce and Curry powder in mild and spicy. The item is no longer sold (September 2016).\n\nThe German McDonald's Breakfast does provide Brötchen, a crispy bread roll; McCroissant, a Croissant stuffed with Ham and Cheese; Scrambled Eggs with Bacon and \"Classic Breakfast\", a choice of bread rolls with sweet spreads resembling a very common German breakfast choice.\n\nBeer is no longer sold at all locations. It is still served in older outlets owned by German brewers with leases allowing the serving of beer.\n\nMcDonald's in Greece currently sells the Greek Mac, a Big Mac variant on pita bread with tzatziki sauce. Other regular menus include the McToast, a ham and cheese sandwich on toast, Deluxe fries (potato wedges), and onion rings. Heineken beer is also served in all locations.\n\nDuring the period of Lent when Orthodox Christians abstain from eating meat, McDonald's also offers the McVeggie burger, a Shrimp Burger, a McWrap Shrimp, fried veggie snackers, spring rolls, and fried shrimp with dipping sauce.\n\nHungarian McDonald's sell the McFarm, once available in Greece. Limited-time products available only in Hungary have included McDonald's version of the popular Hungarian breakfast food lángos, and a \"Hungarian flavors\" menu.\n\nItalian McDonald's offers, since 2000, Crispy McBacon, composed of two beef patties, one slice of cheddar, bacon and a special sauce. In 2014 a variation with chicken is offered.\nIt also began offering \"McItaly\" items since 2010 in a limited period. Products include burger with \"100 percent made-in-Italy meat\" and various typical Italian ingredients. The company advertises burgers in several European countries as using Italian beef, because Cremonini provides it in various locations. On May 24, 2013 McDonald's Italia in cooperation with Barilla began offering for a limited period a pasta salad\nMcCafè, launched in 2005, has also been adapted to Italian taste.\nFrom May 2015 the menu includes the vegetarian burger McVeggie, offered here with no cheese.\n\nA Nutella burger debuted in 2016.\n\nIn Malta, McDonald's sell mozzarella sticks and chicken wings as side dishes. The Big Tasty is a variant to the Big N' Tasty while chicken nuggets come with an array of sauces, such as BBQ, sweet and sour, ketchup or mayonnaise. The McCafe was also first introduced in Malta, more specifically on its sister island Gozo, where the only McDonald's and McCafe on the island are found in the Arcadia shopping centre in the capital city of Victoria.\nIt is also the place where the McFtira was sold, a beef or chicken burger with the addition of goat cheese and served in traditional Maltese bread.\n\nIn the Netherlands, McDonald's sells the McKroket, a deep-fried roll containing beef ragout, similar to the Dutch bitterballen sold in snack bars. Dutch McDonald's serve frite sauce or \"American Sauce,\" a yellow mayonnaise-like sauce not eaten in the United States with French fries. The ChickenSaté burger was also offered, consisting of fried chicken with peanut sauce; this popular food is inspired by the Netherlands' historical connection to Indonesia. The Joppie Burger was also available using Joppie sauce, popular in the Netherlands. Since 2015, the Maestro Burger menu has been available. The Maestro Burger is a large burger with sesameseed bread, 2 Angus beef patties, onion, lettuce, bacon and mustard. The Chicken Maestro Burger, and the Maestro Burger Egg, a version of the regular burger with an added egg, have been made available since the original burger's launch. Also included in the menu is \"Boerenfriet\", which are thick, large fries, as commonly found in burgerbars, as well as regular mayonnaise. The introduction of the Maestro Burger is part of the revamp McDonald's is going through in the Netherlands since change of directors, focussing more on customers that seek higher quality burgers and that who would usually visit burgerbars. \nSpecial Dutch drinks include Fristi (a yogurt drink) and Chocomel (a chocolate milk drink).\nAlso available in the Netherlands are \"stroopwafel\" McFlurries.\n\nAs in Finland, Norwegian McDonald's serve the El Maco (on a seasonal basis) and offer gluten free buns without an extra cost. They also serve a Laksewrap, deep-fried fish with salad and a mango slice in a tortilla.\n\nIn 2002, the McAfrika burger was introduced in Norway, coinciding with major famines in Southern Africa. The name of the burger drew much negative publicity as being highly insensitive. The burger with vegetables were placed in pita bread.\n\nOfferings in Polish McDonald's restaurants include: the WieśMac (\"Country Mac\"), a quarter-pound beef patty with onions, lettuce, cheese, mustard, and horseradish sauce on a sesame seed bun; the Pikantny Kurczakburger (\"Spicy Chickenburger\"), a chicken sandwich with lettuce and hot Mexican-style sauce; McWrap – tortilla with chicken available in two versions: Classic (mayonnaise, mild-Mexican sauce, lettuce, rucola, shredded cheese, two slices of tomato and chicken patty) and Honey-Mustard (honey-mustard sauce, lettuce, shredded cheese, two slices of tomato, two strips of bacon and chicken patty). During winter period you can get Kanapka Drwala (\"The Lumberjack's Sandwich\") – a big bun with pork rinds instead of sesame, a quarter pounder, bacon, big piece of deep-fried cheese, sauce and vegetables. There is a free apple in every Happy Meal.\n\nPortuguese McDonald's offers a variety of soups, including their national dish of kale soup (caldo verde) and cream of carrot, white bean and spinach. These are offered as add-ons to Happy meals as well. There is also a McBifana and a McPrego on a ciabatta roll. The Portugal-specific mixed salad contains olives, corn, onions and tomatoes. In November 2016 McDonald's Portugal introduced a vegetarian burger option called McVeggie (made from quinoa, bell peppers, wheat flour, wheat protein, vegetable oil, wheat bran, eggs, vegetable starch, spices, salt, onion, garlic, green peas, sugar and mixed herbs). For dessert there are Portugal-specific fresh pineapple chunks, apple cinnamon sundae and a sandwich-shaped apple pie. In 2018 McDonald's released a limited-time edition of the Big Mac Bacon, essentially a Big Mac with added bacon.\nBeer is available in all restaurants. In October of the same year, Chicken Country has been introduced as a cheap option (EuroPoupança) to purchase, considered as a side with any menu, like many other products.\n\nIn Russia, McDonald's started selling special burgers with ingredients 100% made in the Russian Federation such as cheese, bread, tomatoes, beef, bacon, lettuce in 2015 under the \"Биф А-ля Рус (Beef à la Russe)\" name, aimed at authentic Russian native hamburger.\n\nIn Serbia, McDonald's offers the McBaguette sandwich. The sandwich is available in two varieties including chicken or ham & cheese. The restaurants throughout the country offer alcoholic and energy drinks. They also offer orange juice and apple juice for the junior menus.\n\nIn Slovakia, McDonald's offers the McSyr, a sandwich containing breaded fried cheese and tartar sauce which emulates the Slovak dish vyprážaný syr. It is similar to the Czech McSmažák. Also, like in the United Kingdom, McDonald's restaurants in Slovakia serve donuts, which are named McDonuts. McDonuts can be served with either vanilla or chocolate frosting.\n\nThe McCountry sandwich served in Croatia is also available in the Slovenia.\n\nSwedish McDonald's occasionally, when there is a time-limited campaign, serve the El Maco and offer gluten free buns without an extra cost. Since 2018 McDonald's in Sweden also serve an all vegan burger called the McVegan. This burger is served with a vegan patty made out of soy, salad, tomatoes, cucumber, onions and vegan McFeast Sauce.\n\nSwiss McDonald's serve \"The Prime\" Burger, a beef burger with bacon, Gruyère cheese and special sauces created by Swiss Chef René Schudel. With a current price of CHF 10.90 (approx. USD 12.00) for the burger only it is one of the most expensive McDonald's burgers worldwide.\n\nUkraine features the McLavash sandwich on its menus in the southern part of the country, which is served in flatbread. It has two spicy beef patties, some greens, onion and tomato. The McLavash is also served in some other nearby countries.\n\nBritish and Irish McDonald's serve the Chicken Legend, a chicken breast coated in seasoned batter either spicy tomato salsa, BBQ Sauce or mayonnaise. In June 2011, Deli Choices, a line of sandwich rolls with fillings, was released in the UK. Curry flavoured sauce is available for McNuggets in British and Irish restaurants. From 2003 to 2005, menus included the Quorn Premiere, a vegetarian burger with sweet chilli sauce, light Hellmann's mayonnaise, tomato, and lettuce in a focaccia bun. In 2015, McDonald's released a limited edition burger in the Republic of Ireland called the McMór. In 2016, this burger was brought back for six weeks. It features Ballymaloe Relish, Charleville cheddar and a potato bun. In 2016, McDonald's launched the brand new BBQ Smokehouse Range of burgers. The two burgers that were launched contained chicken and beef with bacon, cheese and BBQ Sauce.\n\nPast promotional items have included the Apple Pie Sundae, Mozzarella Dippers, Cheese Melt Dippers, the Summer Chorizo Supreme, BBQ Chicken Premiere with Bacon, the 1955 burger, Apple and Blackberry Pie, and Festive Pie, with mincemeat and custard. A series of burgers intending to represent various American locales has been released under the \"Great Taste of America\" name. These burgers have represented New York City, Chicago, Las Vegas, Texas, Arizona, Miami, California, and New Orleans. Not all of these burgers resemble their respective local cuisines. British and Irish McDonald's also released a series of burgers representing several different countries in the world. These have included Australia, South Africa, Canada and Mexico. Several Summer and Winter menus have been launched. Also, McDonald's has launched several kinds of McFlurrys over the past few years, such as Cornetto, Cadbury brands like Dairy Milk which is available all year and the creme egg which is only available around Easter.\n\nMcDonald’s UK also offers a range of premium burgers known as the Signature Collection, consisting of three burgers, The Classic, The Spicy and The BBQ. Each comes with a thicker patty made from higher quality beef which takes longer to cook and is served on a brioche bun.\n\nFrench fries may be substituted with McDonald's version of poutine. Previously, McDonald's poutine was available widely only in Francophone Canada (Quebec and parts of New Brunswick) and available elsewhere on a more limited basis; however, in December 2013, McDonald's formally announced the nationwide availability of poutine at all of its Canadian restaurants, due to popular demand. Quebec also saw the release of the limited-time 1967 Burger, commemorating Canada's first McDonald's franchise. Deli Choices were introduced throughout Canada in 2006. Unique to Canadian McDonald's locations is the McMini, miniature sandwiches with grilled or crispy chicken; flavors include Pesto Chicken (later replaced by Zesty Mango) and Spicy Thai. As in the United States, the McRib periodically appears on the menu for limited runs. The crispy chicken patty used in the McChicken sandwich sold in Canada uses both white and dark meat – it is essentially the same size and taste as the original McChicken that first appeared in the USA in 1980.\n\nSeasonal items previously available in McDonald's in Canada include the McLobster, a lobster roll, available in the Maritime Provinces, called \"McHomard\" in French. Regionally a blueberry-shortbread McFlurry is also available. Discontinued items in Canadian McDonald's include pizzas, including a calzone-style \"McPizza.\"\nThe McFlurry Originated in New Brunswick.\n\nMexican McDonald's locations do not serve fish, except during the period of Lent. Special items at these locations have included the Flaming Hot Doritos Quarter Pounder and the BBQ Double Burger. For breakfast, Mexican McDonald's locations serve the McMollete, which is made on an English muffin spread with beans, topped with a slice of melted cheese and pico de gallo. Mexican locations also serve a version of the McSkillet burrito known as the \"McBurrito\".\n\nMcDonald's restaurants in the United States of America offer various types of shellfish dishes on a regional basis, such as seasonal lobster rolls in New England and crab cakes in the Mid-Atlantic states. Parts of the Upper Midwest sell Johnsonville Brats, a toasted hot dog bun with a Johnsonville bratwurst topped with spicy mustard and onions. Other regional variations include the Texas Homestyle Burger, and traditional Southern breakfast items, such as a country ham biscuit and biscuits and gravy. Locations in the Southwest regularly offer burgers topped with New Mexico chile.\n\nHawaii locations offer saimin on their regular menu, and include Spam, Portuguese sausage and rice as a breakfast option. Pineapple and taro pies, as regularly sold in some Asian countries, have been occasionally offered on the regular menu, along with haupia pies; pineapple is also sometimes available as a topping on burgers. In Waikiki locations, small trays of pineapple can be ordered as a side dish. Except for saimin, Hawaiian and selected Asian specialty items can also be found in McDonald's in the US territories of Guam and the Northern Mariana Islands. During Easter time, Hawaii, Guam and the CNMI all feature the Double Filet-O-Fish meal due to having a heavy concentration of Catholics (mostly people who immigrated from the Philippines) in that region.\n\nAs in Mexico, Puerto Rican McDonald's do not serve fish and serve the McCriollo (with eggs and cheese) for breakfast. Criollo is a Puerto Rican bread, like a baguette, but bigger and softer. Basically, the McCriollo is a sandwich with ham, cheese, and egg on a Criollo roll.\n\nThe most popular Australian McDonald's menu items are the McOz Burger and the Create Your Taste kiosk. You use a touch screen to choose types of bread, beef patties, chicken patties, bacon, cheese, pickles, onions, lettuce, tomato and sauce. Your order is delivered by a waiter when dining in-store. Previous products have included: Shaker Fries, similar to Japan's Shaka Shaka Chicken; a BLT; the McBeefsteak, promoted by country music singer Lee Kernaghan; the Big Kahuna Burger, served with pineapple; the Romano Burger, a chicken patty with Italian sauce and mozzarella served on an herbed focaccia bun; the Tandoori Burger, a chicken patty with lettuce and mint yogurt sauce served on flatbread; and a Chive Omelette Roll.\n\nCurrent products have included: Chicken Mcbites, Classic Angus and Aussie BBQ Angus.\n\nEvery so often (typically once a year) the McOz is sold for a limited time. The McOz is a quarter-pound burger with lettuce, tomato, cheese, mustard, ketchup and the so-called Australian ingredients of beetroot and cooked onion served on a sesame seed bun.\n\nMany McDonald's menu items in New Zealand are similar to those in Australia. Some unique items include the Kiwiburger, a beef patty with McMuffin egg, tomato, lettuce, cheese, onion, beetroot, ketchup, and mustard. In 2011, a special \"Kiwi Menu\" was featured to promote the country's hosting of the 2011 Rugby World Cup.\n\nIn April 2012, McDonald's re-released the El Maco, a variant of the product of the same name offered in other markets, such as Scandinavia. El Maco had previously been sold in New Zealand in the early 1990s.\n\nIn 1996, the New Zealand affiliate bought out failing local fast food chain Georgie Pie, which based itself around Australian and New Zealand meat pies. McDonald's trialed a partial relaunch of the Georgie Pie brand in May 2013 with one pie flavor sold through eleven of its restaurants. In October 2013, the affiliate announced it would expand the sale of Georgie Pie to 107 of its 161 restaurants by the end of 2013. As of January 2017, two pie flavors are available: Steak Mince 'n' Cheese and Bacon 'n' Egg.\n\nMcNífica is served. McDonald's Argentina serves Big Tasty Angus Burger, made with premium Argentinean Angus Beef.\nArgentina is the only country besides Israel in which McDonald's has full kosher locations. These are the only places in the world where McDonald's burgers are barbecued on charcoal rather than fried.\nCroissants are served for breakfast and afternoon tea.\n\nIn Brazil, McDonald's offers the Cheddar McMelt, a beef burger with creamy cheddar cheese and grilled onions, flavored with soy sauce on a whole-wheat bun.\n\nBanana-flavored pies are served in Brazilian McDonald's.\n\nA vegetarian burger started being available, on a trial basis, on 8 November 2018. This followed a trial of a vegan burger in October/November 2017.\n\nIn Chile, cheese empanadas are sold at all McDonald's locations in Chile as side dishes. Also, customers can add avocado paste to any sandwich, other than the McPalta (Chilean Spanish for \"McAvocado\"), whose basis is avocado paste along burger as current Cuarto Palta (\"Avocado Quarter Pounder\") and McWrap Palta with Fuze Tea, sliced fried chicken with lettuce, tomatoes and purple onion in a tortilla.\n\nCelebrating the 200-year anniversary of the founding of Chilean republic, in 2010 McDonald's offered Combo Bicentenario, a beef burger with pebre, a Chilean condiment made of coriander, chopped onion, olive oil, garlic and ground spicy chili pepper, and merkén, a smoked chili pepper. Recently, celebrating Chile's 2013 National Day on September, the fast food restaurant served empanadas de pino (stuffed with beef, olives, onions, raisins, and boiled eggs) as special side dishes.\n\nFor breakfast, McDonald's serves croissants, also known in Chile as Medialuna and local versions of two Chilean sandwiches: Barros Jarpa, whose basis is ham and molten cheese on bread, and Lomo Palta, a avocado paste along a slice pork.\n\nColombian McDonald's restaurants serve the McCriollo breakfast combo, which includes a sausage patty, two traditional Colombian arepas, scrambled eggs and sweetcorn, a hashbrown, coffee, butter, and jam.\n\nIn Ecuador, McDonald's started selling cheese empanadas, burgers with cheese sausage or guacamole, blackberry sundae and nuggets with spicy sausage in 2012 under the \"Nuestros sabores\" campaign, aimed at providing a more local cuisine.\n\nIn Peru, McDonald's offers ají, a spicy sauce made from peppers, as a condiment. Peruvian locations also serve Pollo Crujiente (\"crunchy chicken\") and Inca Kola. Now, McDonald´s offers \"Peruvian Foods\" and blackberry Sundae.\n\nIn Venezuela, McDonald's offers arepas, empanadas for breakfast; these are traditional breakfast foods. Venezuelan locations have also served fried yuca sticks.\n\n"}
{"id": "28940191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28940191", "title": "International rankings of Bhutan", "text": "International rankings of Bhutan\n\nThese are the international rankings of Bhutan\n"}
{"id": "19759361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19759361", "title": "John Cole (geographer)", "text": "John Cole (geographer)\n\nJohn Peter Cole (b. 1928, Sydney, Australia) is a British geographer. \n\nHe graduated from the University of Nottingham in 1950. He later returned there to join the staff of the Geography Department, rising to become Professor of Urban and Regional Geography. He is currently Emeritus Professor of Geography at the university.\n\nSince 1957 he has written or co-authored over 25 books on geography. \n\n"}
{"id": "9365325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9365325", "title": "John Oliver Wheeler", "text": "John Oliver Wheeler\n\nJohn Oliver Wheeler (19 December 1924 – 24 May 2015) was a Canadian geologist, who spent most of his career as a research scientist with the Geological Survey of Canada.\n\nWheeler came from a family of surveyors. His father, Sir Edward Oliver Wheeler, participated in the first topographical survey of Mount Everest in 1921, and later rose to become Surveyor General of India. Wheeler's grandfather, Arthur Oliver Wheeler, mapped British Columbia’s Selkirk Mountains and the British Columbia-Alberta border.\n\nIn 1952, Wheeler joined the Geological Survey of Canada. He worked for them for 39 years. He spent the first 20 years mapping the geology of 100,000 square kilometres. The greatest part of this achievement was the Cordillera from northern Washington to eastern Alaska. He also mapped several regions of the Yukon, including the Saint Elias Mountains, and parts of British Columbia, including the Selkirk Mountains. His work has become the foundation of all subsequent Cordilleran mapping studies and set the standard for geological mapping in Canada. In 1968, Wheeler was appointed head of the Survey’s Cordilleran Section.\n\nIn the 1970s, Wheeler moved to Ottawa to become a manager. He was promoted to Chief Geologist, with responsibility for the scientific program. In the 1980s he returned to Vancouver to be the General Editor of the new 8-volume edition of the \"Geology of Canada\". He prepared many of the large regional and national maps.\n\nIn the early 1980s, he lobbied for establishment of the Lithoprobe project. This 20-year project performed geoscientific studies on and mapped deep seismic transects of Canada’s crust. He served as chairman of Lithoprobe’s steering committee for two years.\n\nWheeler retired in 1990. During his later years he remainined as an unsalaried emeritus research scientist at the Geological Survey of Canada in Vancouver, and was a lead author of the 2004 Canada-USA collaborative Geological Map of North America.\n\nWheeler became a member of the Geological Association of Canada in 1957. He was a Councillor from 1968-1972. He served as President from 1970-1971.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9936271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9936271", "title": "Joint Precision Airdrop System", "text": "Joint Precision Airdrop System\n\nThe Joint Precision Airdrop System (JPADS) is an American military airdrop system which uses the Global Positioning System (GPS), steerable parachutes, and an onboard computer to steer loads to a designated point of impact (PI) on a drop zone (DZ). It integrates the U.S. Army's Precision and Extended Glide Airdrop System (PEGASYS) and the U.S. Air Force's Precision Airdrop System (PADS) program. PEGASYS consists of several precision airdrop systems, ranging from extra light to heavy payloads, while PADS resides on a laptop which computes the release points for non-steerable parachute systems by means of software capable of mission-planning, weather forecasting, and current measurements of wind velocity, altitude, air pressure, and temperature. It can also receive weather updates and en route mission changes through satellite links.\n\nU.S. Army Research, Development and Engineering Command (RDECOM) was the primary developer for JPADS, which meets several requirements: increased ground accuracy, standoff delivery, increased air carrier survivability, and improved effectiveness/assessment feedback regarding airdrop mission operations. The U.S. Army and U.S. Air Force began jointly developing this system in 1993. The U.S. Air Force made its first operational/combat use of the system in Afghanistan in 2006.\n\nThe steerable parachute or parafoil is called a \"decelerator,\" and gives the JPADS system directional control throughout its descent by means of decelerator steering lines attached to the Autonomous Guidance Unit (AGU). They create drag on either side of the decelerator, which turns the parachute, thus achieving directional control.\n\nThe AGU contains a GPS, a battery pack, and the guidance, navigation and control (GN&C) software package. It also houses the hardware required to operate the steering lines. The AGU obtains its position prior to exiting the aircraft, and continues to calculate its position via the GPS throughout descent. \n\nThe Mission Planner software gives the aircrew the ability to plan the mission, in flight if necessary, as well as steer the aircraft to its Computed Air Release Point (CARP), where the load is released.\n\nJPADS involves four increments, categorized by the weight of the cargo to be dropped:\n\nIncrement I: JPADS-2K / applies to loads up to 2,200 lb / classified as the “extra light” category / commensurate with Container Delivery System (CDS) bundles.\n\nIncrement II: JPADS-10K / applies to loads up to 10,000 lb.\n\nIncrement III: JPADS-30K / applies to loads up to 30,000 lb.\n\nIncrement IV: JPADS-60K / applies to loads up to 60,000 lb.\n\nJPADS is reported to be accurate to , drastically reduces drop zone size requirements; significantly increasing the number of locations which can be used as a drop zone. This reduces both the risk of hostile fire to aircraft and aircrews and the amount of cargo that misses a drop zone.\n\nJPADS offers several main benefits, including an increase in the number of available drop zones and an increase in the cargo's precision, which benefits the user. JPADS also increases the survivability of the delivery aircraft and its crew.\n\nCurrent drop zones are quite large; or more. Airdropping sequential loads (multiple loads aboard a single aircraft) requires very long drop zones on the order of or more, or else the aircraft must make multiple passes over the same area, a tactically unsound thing to do. Furthermore, achieving a high degree of accuracy (less than ) requires the aircraft to fly at the lowest altitude possible, which can range from above ground level to as high as , depending on the altitude of the drop zone, the weight of the load, and the number and type of parachutes required.\n\nJPADs can achieve the same or better accuracy from greater heights, allowing the aircraft to drop the load at a much higher, and usually safer, altitude.\n\nBecause JPADS allows the aircraft to drop at high-altitude, the aircraft can actually drop the load a good distance away from the drop zone, which affords the aircrew to remain free of enemy threats which may be near the area where the load is being dropped.\n\nAirdrops are usually performed at slow speeds for an aircraft, usually 130 kts for paratroopers and 140 kts for cargo. When combined with the low altitude required for precision, the aircraft are vulnerable to enemy ground fire. With JPADS, the aircraft is much more likely to survive, as it can drop at a much higher altitude, above most enemy ground fire.\n\nBecause the system can transmit its current position back to the airdrop aircraft, it provides its exact landing location which the aircrew can then transmit to ground forces which may not have arrived at the drop zone.\n\n"}
{"id": "9364399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9364399", "title": "La Frontera, Chile", "text": "La Frontera, Chile\n\nLa Frontera is the name given to a geographical region in Chile. La Frontera can denote either the area just around Bío Bío River or the whole area between the Bío Bío and Toltén River being in this later definition largely coterminous with the historical usage of Araucanía.\n\nThe name comes the times when it was the frontier of the Captaincy General of Chile (a part of the Spanish Empire and later the Republic of Chile) with La Araucanía, the lands of the Mapuche nation following their great revolt in 1598.\n\nFollowing the 1598 revolt and subsequent loss of the cities and forts south of the Bio Bio, the Spanish Empire established a system of forts and fortified towns between the Bio Bio and the Itata River and some within the Mapuche lands of Araucanía itself. This system continued through the 18th century and into the 19th century.\n\nThe first fortress rebuilt following the 1599 destruction of the forts in Catirai and its city Santa Cruz de Coya, the cities of Santa María la Blanca de Valdivia, San Andrés de Los Infantes and San Bartolomé de Chillán y Gamboa, was the reconstruction of the city of Chillán by the interim Governor Francisco de Quiñónez.\n\nIn 1601 Alonso de Ribera built Fort Talcahuano to defend remaining Spanish settlements near Concepción and Fort Lonquén on the Lonquén River to secure estancias that provided food to the army.\n\nIn 1602 Ribera rebuilt the small Fort Colcura and Fort Guanaraque and built a new fort, Santa Fe near the confluence of the Bio Bio and Vergara Rivers. On the coast Ribera sent captain Francisco Hernández Ortiz to establish a fort Valdivia on the site of the ruined city but it had to be abandoned by the starving remnant of its garrison after a terrible two-year siege.\n\nIn 1603 Ribera built Fort Chepe and Fort San Pedro to cover the crossing at the mouth of the Bio Bio River. He rebuilt San Felipe de Araucan and Santa Margarita de Austria on the coast between the aillarehues of Arauco and Tucapel and a fort at Tucapel and Paicavi on the Paicavi River. Also in the same year to the east along the Bio Bio River facing the aillarehues of Catirai and Purén, he rebuilt Santa Lucia de Yumbel and built the forts of Nuestra Señora de la Buena Esperanza, San Rosendo, Nuestra de Senora de Halle, Nacimiento de Nuestro Señor and San Francisco de Borja. The refugees from the abandoned city of Osorno under captain Francisco Hernández founded Fort Calbuco on a channel between the Reloncaví Sound and the Gulf of Ancud.\n\nIn 1606, Alonso García de Ramón built Fort San Ignacio de la Redención near Boroa but it was abandoned soon after the ambush of most of its garrison.\n\nIn 1607 García de Ramón rebuilt Fort Purén and San Jerónimo de Millapoa but as a result of a peace agreement with the Moluche of Catirai he soon dismantled the later.\n\nIn 1611 Luis Merlo de la Fuente built fort \"San Luis de Angol\" a little to the south of the old city of Angol.\n\nIn 1613 Alonso de Ribera built Fort Virguenco in the upper part of the Rehue River and rebuilt the fort at Puren again.\n\nIn 1621, Cristóbal de la Cerda y Sotomayor rebuilt the fort of Yumbel the same year it was destroyed. He also built fort San Cristóbal de La Paz and fortified the town around the fort San Bartolomé de Chillán.\n\nIn 1622, Pedro Osores de Ulloa built Fort Negrete.\n\n8 March 1626, Luis Fernandez de Cordova established Santa Juana de Guadalcazar.\n\nIn 1637, Francisco Laso de la Vega established fort \"San Francisco de la Vega\" near the ruined site of the city of Angol, abandoning fort \"San Luis de Angol\".\n\nIn 1641, all the Spanish forts south of the Bio Bio were abandoned under the terms of the Peace of Quilín.\n\nIn 1647, Martín de Mujica y Buitrón as a result of the Parliament of Quilín (1647) was able to reestablish forts at Valdivia, Santa Juana in 1648, and at Boroa in 1649.\n\nIn 1657 Pedro Porter Casanate restored the city of San Bartolomé de Chillán following its destruction at the beginning of the Mapuche Insurrection of 1655. He also built forts San Rafael de Coelemu and San Fabián de Conueo northeast of Concepcion. Meanwhile, captain Alonso de Cordova y Figueroa built Fort Tolpán at the confluence of the Renaico and Vergara Rivers.\n\nIn 1661 Governor Porter Casanate built fort \"San Miguel Arcángel de Colcura\" near modern Lota and a fort at Talcamávida.\n\nIn 1662 Ángel de Peredo established a new city of Santa Maria de Guadalupe and repopulated Arauco lost in 1655.\n\nIn 1663 Paredo rebuilt fort San Cristóbal de La Paz.\n\nIn 1665 Francisco de Meneses Brito established fort San Carlos de Virhuenco on the upper Rehue River and rebuilt forts Nacimiento de Nuestro Señor and Puren.\n\nIn 1666 Meneses built fort Santa Fe and Fort de la Encarnación in Repucura. He also rebuilt San Carlos de Austria de Yumbel.\n\nIn 1693 Tomás Marín de Poveda rebuilt fort Buena Esperanza de Rere.\n\nIn 1694 Marín de Poveda restored Fort de la Encarnación and a Mission in Repucura.\n\nIn 1695 Marín de Poveda built fort Santo Tomás de Colhué.\n\nIn 1724 Gabriel Cano de Aponte rebuilt forts Nacimiento, Santa Juana de Guadalcázar and Santo Tomás de Colhué. He transferred from Arauco Province the garrison and inhabitants of Plaza de San Diego de Tucapel to the bank of the Laja River near the Andes where a new fort of the same name was built.\n\nIn 1739, José Antonio Manso de Velasco founded fort Nuestra Señora de Los Ángeles.\n\nIn 1749 fort Nacimiento was moved to the present site of the modern town of Nacimiento.\n\nIn 1756, Manuel de Amat y Juniet founded fort Santa Bárbara and established the towns of San Rafael de Talcamavida and San Juan Bautista de Gualqui\n\nIn 1757 Amat y Juniet made Nacimiento a town.\n\nIn 1764 Antonio de Guill y Gonzaga established Fort Repucura and a mission at Repucura once again.\n\nIn 1777, the then military engineer Ambrosio O' Higgins, constructed for Agustín de Jáuregui y Aldecoa, a fort San Agustín de Mesamávida.\n\nIn 1788 Governor Ambrosio O'Higgins built Fort Príncipe Carlos on the Duqueco River.\n\nIn 1792 the forces of Governor Ambrosio O'Higgins under Tomás de Figueroa took possession of the site of the city of Osorno ruined in 1602, and constructed a fort there. O'Higgins reestablished it as a city in 1796.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "577011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=577011", "title": "Libertatia", "text": "Libertatia\n\nLibertatia (also known as Libertalia) was a purported anarchist colony founded in the late 17th century in Madagascar by pirates under the leadership of Captain James Misson (last name occasionally spelled \"Mission\", first name occasionally \"Olivier\"). \n\nWhether or not Libertalia actually existed is disputed. It is described in the book \"A General History of the Pyrates\" by Captain Charles Johnson, an otherwise unknown individual who may have been a pseudonym of Daniel Defoe. According to Johnson's description, Libertalia lasted for about 25 years. The precise location is not known; however, most sources say it stretched from the Antongil Bay to Mananjary, Fianarantsoa, including Île Sainte-Marie and Mahavelona. Thomas Tew, Misson and a Dominican priest named Signor Caraccioli were involved in founding it.\n\nLibertalia was a legendary free colony forged by pirates and the pirate Captain Misson, although some historians have expressed doubts over its existence outside of literature. Historian and activist Marcus Rediker describes the pirates as follows:\n\nAlthough the existence of Libertatia is contested, the radical ideas that it represented were very common in various pirate-era events. After the American Revolution, pirates fleeing from England were wrecked on an island and set up their own Libertatia. They called their new island \"the Republic of Spensonia\", after a fictional Utopian country created by the English author and political reformer Thomas Spence. According to A. L. Morton, it \"looks backward to the medieval commune and forward to the withering away of the state.\"\n\nThe pirates were against the various forms of authoritarian social constructs of their day, monarchies, slavery, and capital. The pirates practiced forms of direct democracy, where the people as a whole held the authority to make laws and rules, and used systems of councils with delegates, who were supposed to think of themselves as \"comerads\" of the general population, and not rulers. The pirates created a new language for their colony and operated a socialist economy.\n\nMisson's crews often were half white and black. The pirates have been reported to have freed enslaved people because the idea of slavery went against their own ideals of freedom.\n\nThe pirate utopia's motto was \"for God and liberty,\" and its flag was white, in contrast to a Jolly Roger. They were anarchists, waging war against states and lawmakers, attacking their ships, sparing prisoners, and freeing slaves. They called themselves \"Liberi\", and lived under a communal city rule, a sort of worker owned corporation of piracy. They had articles (shared codes of conduct), and used elected systems of re-callable delegates.\n\nMisson was French, born in Provence, and it was while he was in Rome on leave from the French warship Victoire that he lost his faith, disgusted by the decadence of the Papal Court. In Rome he ran into Caraccioli - a \"lewd Priest\" who over the course of long voyages with little to do but talk, gradually converted Misson and a sizeable portion of the rest of the crew to his way of thinking:\n\nEmbarking on a career of piracy, the 200 strong crew of the Victoire called upon Misson to be their captain. They shared the wealth of the ship, deciding \"all should be in common.\" All decisions were to be put to \"the Vote of the whole Company.\" Thus they set out on their new \"Life of Liberty.\" Off the west coast of Africa they captured a Dutch slave ship. The slaves were freed and brought aboard the Victoire, Misson declaring that \"the Trading for those of our own Species, cou'd never be agreeable to the Eyes of divine Justice: That no Man had Power of Liberty of another\" and that \"he had not exempted his Neck from the galling Yoak of Slavery, and asserted his own Liberty, to enslave others.\" At every engagement they added to their numbers with new French, English and Dutch recruits, and freed African slaves.\n\nWhile cruising round the coast of Madagascar, Misson found a perfect bay in an area with fertile soil, fresh water and friendly natives. Here the pirates built Libertalia, renouncing their titles of English, French, Dutch or African and calling themselves Liberi. They created their own language, a polyglot mixture of African languages, combined with French, English, Dutch, Portuguese and native Malagasy. Shortly after the beginning of building work on the colony of Libertalia, the Victoire ran into the pirate Thomas Tew, who decided to accompany them back to Libertalia. Such a colony was no new idea to Tew; he had lost his quartermaster and 23 of his crew when they had left to form a settlement further up the Madagascan coast. The Liberi - \"Enemies to Slavery,\" aimed to boost their numbers by capturing another slave ship. Off the coast of Angola, Tew's crew took an English slave ship with 240 men, women and children below decks. The African members of the pirate crew discovered many friends and relatives among the enslaved and struck off their fetters and handcuffs, regaling them with the glories of their new life of liberty.\n\nThe pirates settled down to become farmers, holding the land in common - \"no Hedge bounded any particular Man's Property.\" Prizes and money taken at sea were \"carry'd into the common Treasury, Money being of no Use where every Thing was in common.\"\n\nThe consensus of modern scholarship is that Libertalia (or Libertatia) was not a real place. Journalist Kevin Rushby toured the area seeking descendants of pirate inhabitants but declined to search the jungles for Libertalia, noting “others have tried and failed many times.” There were pirate settlements on and around Madagascar, on which Libertalia may have been based: Abraham Samuel at Port Dauphin, Adam Baldridge at Ile Ste.-Marie, and James Plaintain at Ranter Bay were all ex-pirates who founded trading posts and towns. These locations appear frequently in official accounts and letters from the period, while Libertalia appears only in Johnson’s \"General History, Volume 2\". Johnson’s “Libertalia” has been treated as completely fictional, as apocryphal, or as a utopian commentary. The inclusion of fictional accounts such as Misson's in \"A General History\" has caused some modern scholars to discount the entire work as a reliable source, though other portions of it have been at least partially corroborated by various sources.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37626871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37626871", "title": "List of Presidents of the Senate of Puerto Rico", "text": "List of Presidents of the Senate of Puerto Rico\n\nThis is a list of people that have held the post of President of the Senate of Puerto Rico. The Senate has elected its own President from more than years since the Jones–Shafroth Act formally established the post on March 2, 1917.\n"}
{"id": "3618938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3618938", "title": "List of airports by ICAO code: Y", "text": "List of airports by ICAO code: Y\n\nThe prefix Y is reserved for Australia. For many (but not all) Australian ICAO codes, the second letter indicates which Flight Information Region (FIR) the airport belongs to — B Brisbane, S Sydney, M Melbourne and P Perth. However, the Sydney and Perth FIRs no longer exist and have been merged into the Brisbane and Melbourne FIRs, although the airport codes remain unchanged (e.g. Sydney YSSY, Darwin YPDN).\n\nAirport codes with the second letter X are reserved for heliports and are often associated with hospitals (e.g. Canberra Hospital, YXCB)\n\nFormat of entries is:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51607893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51607893", "title": "List of lighthouses in Angola", "text": "List of lighthouses in Angola\n\nThis is a list of lighthouses in Angola. \n"}
{"id": "3187996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3187996", "title": "List of mayors of Amsterdam", "text": "List of mayors of Amsterdam\n\nBelow is a list of Mayors (Dutch: \"burgemeesters\") of Amsterdam, capital city of the Netherlands. In 1824, it was decided only one person could govern the cities of The Hague and Amsterdam at a time. Mayors of Dutch municipalities are appointed by the municipal council after acceptation of the King's Commissioner of the province.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8921824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8921824", "title": "List of museums and monuments in Istanbul", "text": "List of museums and monuments in Istanbul\n\nThis list of museums and monuments in Istanbul, Turkey, includes the relevant architectural entities within Istanbul's city limits.\n\n\"(in alphabetical order; Turkish-language name in parentheses where appropriate)\"\n"}
{"id": "2859799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2859799", "title": "List of programs broadcast by Toon Disney", "text": "List of programs broadcast by Toon Disney\n\nThis is a list of television programs that have been broadcast by Toon Disney in the United States. The channel was launched on April 18, 1998 as a spinoff of Disney Channel, and aired mostly syndicated animated programming, ranging from action to comedy.\n\nThe first program broadcast on Toon Disney was the Mickey Mouse segment from \"Fantasia\" titled \"The Sorcerer's Apprentice\". It was followed by a sampling of other Mickey Mouse shorts and episodes of \"Timon and Pumbaa\", \"The New Adventures of Winnie the Pooh\", \"Goof Troop\", \"TaleSpin\", and \"Aladdin\".\n\nThe list does not include the programs that were introduced as Jetix, a block on Toon Disney that ran from 2004 to 2009.\n\nAn asterisk (*) indicates the show was integrated into Disney XD's initial lineup.\n\n\nThe following shows were broadcast on Toon Disney as part of their first run:\n\nThe following shows were originally run on another Disney-related channel such as Disney Channel, The Disney Afternoon, One Saturday Morning/ABC Kids and ABC Family.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "318257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=318257", "title": "Monolith", "text": "Monolith\n\nA monolith is a geological feature consisting of a single massive stone or rock, such as some mountains, or a single large piece of rock placed as, or within, a monument or building. Erosion usually exposes the geological formations, which are often made of very hard and solid igneous or metamorphic rock.\n\nIn architecture, the term has considerable overlap with megalith, which is normally used for prehistory, and may be used in the contexts of rock-cut architecture that remains attached to solid rock, as in monolithic church, or for exceptionally large stones such as obelisks, statues, monolithic columns or large architraves, that may have been moved a considerable distance after quarrying. It may also be used of large glacial erratics moved by natural forces.\n\nThe word derives, via the Latin \"monolithus\", from the Ancient Greek word μονόλιθος (\"monolithos\"), from μόνος (\"one\" or \"single\") and λίθος (\"stone\").\n\nLarge, well-known monoliths include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nA structure which has been excavated as a unit from a surrounding matrix or outcropping of rock.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24573005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24573005", "title": "Mount Victoria National Park", "text": "Mount Victoria National Park\n\nMount Victoria National Park () or Nat Ma Taung is a national park of Burma. It is located close to the border with India and features Mt. Victoria, which at 3,035 meters above sea level is the highest mountain in Chin Hill, Chin State, in the western part of Central Myanmar. It occupies an area of and was established in 1994. It surrounds Nat Ma Taung, formerly Mount Victoria. It is one of ASEAN Heritage Parks.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "435706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=435706", "title": "Nikolai Vavilov", "text": "Nikolai Vavilov\n\nNikolai Ivanovich Vavilov \n( – 26 January 1943) was a prominent Russian and Soviet agronomist, botanist and geneticist best known for having identified the centres of origin of cultivated plants. He devoted his life to the study and improvement of wheat, corn, and other cereal crops that sustain the global population. Vavilov's work was criticized by Trofim Lysenko, whose anti-Mendelian concepts of plant biology had won favor with Joseph Stalin. As a result, Vavilov was arrested and subsequently sentenced to death in July 1941. Although his sentence was commuted to twenty years' imprisonment, he died of starvation in prison in 1943.\n\nVavilov was born into a merchant family in Moscow, the older brother of renowned physicist Sergey Ivanovich Vavilov. \"The son of a Moscow merchant who'd grown up in a poor rural village plagued by recurring crop failures and food rationing, Vavilov was obsessed from an early age with ending famine in both his native Russia and the world.\" He graduated from the Moscow Agricultural Institute in 1910 with a dissertation on snails as pests. From 1911 to 1912, he worked at the Bureau for Applied Botany and at the Bureau of Mycology and Phytopathology. From 1913 to 1914 he travelled in Europe and studied plant immunity, in collaboration with the British biologist William Bateson, who helped establish the science of genetics.\n\nFrom 1924 to 1935 he was the director of the Lenin All-Union Academy of Agricultural Sciences at Leningrad. Impressed with the work of Canadian phytopathologist Margaret Newton on wheat stem rust, in 1930 he attempted to hire her to work at the institute, offering a good salary and perks such as a camel caravan for her travel. She declined, but visited the institute in 1933 for three months to train 50 students in her research.\n\nWhile developing his theory on the centres of origin of cultivated plants, Vavilov organized a series of botanical-agronomic expeditions, and collected seeds from every corner of the globe. In Leningrad, he created the world's largest collection of plant seeds. Vavilov also formulated the law of homologous series in variation. He was a member of the USSR Central Executive Committee, President of All-Union Geographical Society and a recipient of the Lenin Prize.\n\nThe Leningrad seedbank was diligently preserved through the 28-month Siege of Leningrad. While the Soviets had ordered the evacuation of art from the Hermitage, they had not evacuated the 250,000 samples of seeds, roots, and fruits stored in what was then the world's largest seedbank. A group of scientists at the Vavilov Institute boxed up a cross section of seeds, moved them to the basement, and took shifts protecting them. Those guarding the seedbank refused to eat its contents, even though by the end of the siege in the spring of 1944, nine of them had died of starvation.\n\nIn 1943, parts of Vavilov's collection, samples stored within the territories occupied by the German armies, mainly in Ukraine and Crimea, were seized by a German unit headed by Heinz Brücher. Many of the samples were transferred to the SS Institute for Plant Genetics, which had been established at near Graz, Austria.\n\nVavilov was an atheist.\n\nIn 1955, Vavilov's death sentence was posthumously reversed at a hearing of the Military Collegium of the Supreme Court of the Soviet Union, undertaken as part of a de-Stalinization effort to review Stalin-era death sentences. By the 1960s his reputation was publicly rehabilitated and he began to be hailed as a hero of Soviet science.\n\nToday, the N.I. Vavilov Institute of Plant Industry in St. Petersburg still maintains one of the world's largest collections of plant genetic material. The Institute began as the Bureau of Applied Botany in 1894, and was reorganized in 1924 into the All-Union Research Institute of Applied Botany and New Crops, and in 1930 into the Research Institute of Plant Industry. Vavilov was the head of the institute from 1921 to 1940. In 1968 the institute was renamed after Vavilov in time for its 75th anniversary.\n\nA minor planet, 2862 Vavilov, discovered in 1977 by Soviet astronomer Nikolai Stepanovich Chernykh is named after him and his brother Sergey Ivanovich Vavilov. The crater \"Vavilov\" on the far side of the Moon is also named after him and his brother. The story of the researchers at the Vavilov Institute during the Siege of Leningrad was fictionalized by novelist Elise Blackwell in her 2003 novel \"Hunger\". That novel was the inspiration for the Decemberists' song \"When The War Came\" in the 2006 album \"The Crane Wife\", which also depicts the Institute during the siege and mentions Vavilov by name.\n\n\nThe USSR Academy of Sciences established the Vavilov Award (1965) and the Vavilov Medal (1968).\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33478342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33478342", "title": "Oilouch", "text": "Oilouch\n\nOilouch is an island in the Rock Islands of Palau.\n"}
{"id": "16278583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16278583", "title": "Outline of the Czech Republic", "text": "Outline of the Czech Republic\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to the Czech Republic:\n\nThe Czech Republic (also known as Czechia) is a landlocked country in Central Europe. On 1 January 1993, Czechoslovakia peacefully dissolved into its constituent states, the Czech Republic and Slovakia. The Czech Republic is bordered by Poland to the north, Germany to the west, Austria to the south and Slovakia to the east. Its capital and largest city, with 1.3 million inhabitants, is Prague. It is a pluralist multi-party parliamentary representative democracy, a member of the European Union, NATO, the OECD, the OSCE, the Council of Europe, and the Visegrád Group.\n\n\nGeography of the Czech Republic\n\n\n\n\nList of ecoregions in the Czech Republic\n\n\n\nDemographics of the Czech Republic\n\nPolitics of the Czech Republic\n\nGovernment of the Czech Republic\n\n\nJudiciary of the Czech Republic\n\nForeign relations of the Czech Republic\n\nThe Czech Republic is a member of:\n\nLaw of the Czech Republic\n\nMilitary of the Czech Republic\n\nLocal government in the Czech Republic\n\nHistory of the Czech Republic\n\nCulture of the Czech Republic\n\n\nSports in the Czech Republic\n\nEconomy of the Czech Republic\n\nEducation in the Czech Republic\n\n\nCzech Republic\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1014872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1014872", "title": "Place name origins", "text": "Place name origins\n\nIn much of the \"Old World\" (approximately Africa, Asia and Europe) the names of many places cannot easily be interpreted or understood; they do not convey any apparent meaning in the modern language of the area. This is due to a general set of processes through which place names evolve over time, until their obvious meaning is lost. In contrast, in the \"New World\" (roughly North America, South America, and Australasia), many place names' origins are known.\n\nAlthough the origin of many place names is now forgotten, it is often possible to establish likely meanings through consideration of early forms of the name. Some general conclusions about the nature of place names, and the way in which place names change, can be made and are examined below. It is also possible to distinguish regional trends and differences in the naming of places, as is also discussed below.\n\nThere are several clearly definable types of place name, the primary division being between the names of natural features and the names of human settlements. That the latter are 'places' is obvious. The case is slightly more ambiguous for natural features, depending on how exactly 'place' is defined, and what exactly the concept of a 'place' is used for. If, as is probable, natural features were originally given names to distinguish nearby hills, streams etc. from each other, then these features can be thought of as places, in that they represent distinct geographic locations. However, as names are applied on a larger scale, they may become less useful as place names. For instance, a relatively small, distinct upland valley (e.g. Swaledale) clearly represents a definable geographic location. However, the broad, extended valley of a major river, such as the Trent, is not easily understood as a single location. That notwithstanding, it is probable that the origins of the names of both settlements and natural features is the same, namely to distinguish one from another; and thus that both should be considered place names.\n\nMany other types of place name can be defined, for example those relating to tribal or personal names. Previously names relating to pagan religion were extensively studied as these were thought to be early. Another class studied was those relating to particular people, example: the Ancient British.\n\nThere are identifiable processes which occur over time to place names, and which alter the place names in such a way that their original meanings are lost. These apply to both the names of settlements and natural features, although more so to the former.\n\nThe processes by which place names change include abbreviation, conflation, convergence, development in the parent language (but stasis in the place name) and replacement of the parent language. The latter in particular can result in dramatic shifts in place names, since the original meaning (and often sounds) are not conveyed in the new language, the place name thus shifts to a form appropriate for the new language.\n\n\nPlace names often need specialists to interpret their meanings. Some of the main problems are:\n\n\nThe names of natural or man-made features in the landscape tend to be older than those of settlements since the former are often more widely known. Names are given to water features, hills and valleys, islands and marshes, as well as woods and districts. Man-made landscape features that have been given names include roads and trackways as well as burial mounds, etc. Many topographic elements become incorporated into settlement names, together with plant, creature names or personal names. Many topographical words convey not just an image of the place but also a wealth of information about the likely size, status and pattern of farming practised by the community living there.\n\nWater was of major importance to the early settlers of an area, both for subsistence and for religious reasons. Names were given to springs, streams, rivers and lakes as well as marshes, bays and seas. Eilert Ekwall carried out an early study of river names in England while Krahe conducted a European-wide examination of river names which showed that there were common roots in the names over a wide area. There is still controversy over the language of these roots. Sometimes a generic word was adopted as a specific label, for example the Celtic word for river was \"afon\" which is used in many cases as the name (Avon) of rivers in England.\n\nLand characteristics were important to both hunters and farmers, and there are many terms relating to different types of hills and valleys. Some terms, like \"cumb\" and \"penn\", were adopted from Celtic by Anglo-Saxons. Other terms relate to the expansion of farming.\n\nTopographical names were held in low esteem by early place name scholars but their importance was raised in a book by Margaret Gelling, first published in 1978. This discusses the many elements of topographical place names, with updates in 1988 and 1997.\n\nMost pre-modern settlement names contain a generic element describing the place's function (e.g. 'farm', 'market', 'fort') or a prominent natural feature, or both; if only one of these is present, it is often modified by a personal name or an adjective.\n\nFor instance, examples from England:\n\nThese basic elements can also be found in place names in other countries; e.g. Amsterdam ('River Amstel dam'), Liechtenstein ('Light-stone'), Copenhagen ('Merchants' harbour), Paris ('Home of the Parisii'), Shanghai (approximately 'Seaport'), Tashkent ('Stone city'). These elements are also clearly present in the less 'weathered' New World place names - e.g. Fort Knox, Thunder Bay, Little Rock and so on. Carson City, for instance, was named for Kit Carson, and Belo Horizonte means \"beautiful view\". However, some apparent meanings may be deceptive; New York was not directly named after the English city of York but after the Duke of York, who was the head of the British Navy at the time of the British take-over, and Los Angeles was not named after angels but after the Virgin Mary, or the Queen of the Angels (El Pueblo de Nuestra Señora la Reina de los Angeles).\n\nCountries which have seen repeated large-scale cultural and/or linguistic changes, such as England or France, tend to have more broken down place names, as the original meaning is forgotten and drifts more quickly. They may also have more linguistically diverse place names; for instance in England place names may have Pre-Celtic, Celtic, Roman, Anglo-Saxon, Norse, or Norman-French origins. Conversely, countries with a more uniform cultural/linguistic history tend to have less broken down and diverse place names - Wales for instance (especially when compared to neighbouring England).\n\nVarious names have been used for the island of Britain, see Britain (name). The origin of place names of the countries within Britain are discussed below. Each country is divided into a number of counties. \n\nMost English place-names are either Old Norse or Anglo-Saxon but there is a scattering of Celtic names over the whole country. Other place-names are hybrids of Celtic and Anglo-Saxon elements. There are a high level of personal names within the place names, presumably the names of local landowners at the time of naming. In the north and east, there are many place names of Norse origin; similarly, these contain many personal names. In general, the Anglo-Saxon and Norse place names tend to be rather mundane in origin, the most common types being [personal name + settlement/farm/place] or [type of farm + farm/settlement] (almost all towns ending in -wich, -ton, -ham, -by, -thorpe, -stoke/stock are of these types).\n\nIn Cornwall most place-names are Cornish in origin, whilst in Cumbria there remain a number of place names in Cumbric, the Brythonic language of this region; examples including Carlisle, Helvellyn and Blencathra.\nMost old Roman settlements, whether actually inhabited or not, were given the title of chester/caster in Anglo-Saxon (from the Latin Castrum, 'camp'); the specific names for each may only have little relation to the Roman names (e.g. Chester - 'Deva', Winchester - 'Venta Belgarum' etc.).\n\nMany English places derive part of their name from the river upon which they were built, but in the 16th century many English rivers were renamed with back-formations from towns on their banks. Cambridge, perhaps uniquely, illustrates both effects: originally \"Grontabricc\", a bridge on the Granta, the name became \"Cantebruge\" and then \"Cambrugge\", from which the river was renamed Cam.\n\nThe vast majority of place names in Wales are Welsh by origin, containing elements such as Llan-, Aber-, Pen- etc. Along the south coast of Wales, where English has historically been more widely spoken, many place names are commonly anglicized, such as Pontypool, derived from \"Pont-y-Pŵl\". Many places throughout Wales have alternative names in English unrelated to the name in Welsh, for example, Newport (where the Welsh name \"Casnewydd\" means \"New Castle\") and Swansea (derived from the Norse meaning \"Svein's island\") for the Welsh \"Abertawe\" (Mouth of the River Tawe. In some cases these are in fact related to their Welsh name, but disguised through linguistic processes of mutation, for example Monmouth and the Welsh \"Trefynwy\" both referring to the River Monnow (Mon- < Monnow < \"Mynwy\" > \"-fynwy\").\n\nWelsh place names tend to be associated with natural features rather than people, hence elements describing rivers, hills and valleys are common. The exceptions are places with the prefix \"Llan\", meaning 'Church', which often contain the name of the Saint the church is dedicated to e.g. Llansantffraid - 'Church of St. Bridget'.\n\nIn the islands of Scotland, particularly Orkney and Shetland, but also the Western Isles, there are many names of Norse origin; this is also true of the coasts of the mainland.\n\nIn the Highlands, the names are primarily in Scottish Gaelic, with emphasis on natural features; elements such as Glen- (valley) and Inver- (confluence, mouth) are common. These have replaced Pictish names that still occur on the east coast.\n\nIn lowland Scotland, names are of more diverse origin. Many are Gaelic, but many are also from the Brythonic branch of Celtic languages (such as Ayr). There are also place names from Old English and Scots, such as Edinburgh.\n\nMost place-names are of Gaelic or Norse origin but there are traces of an earlier language in some names.\n\nMost place names derive from Norman-French.\n\nThe vast majority of placenames in Ireland are anglicizations (adaptations to English phonology) of Irish language names. However, some names come directly from the English language or Scots language, and a handful come from Old Norse.\n\nPlace names in the United States are often taken from the European nation that first colonized the land. Many names that have been transferred from Britain, as is the case with Barnstable, Massachusetts and Danbury, Connecticut. Many others are of French origin, such as Detroit, Michigan, which was established along the banks of the river they called \"le détroit du lac Érié\", meaning the strait of Lake Erie. Many in the former New Netherland colony are of Dutch origin, such as Harlem, Brooklyn and Rhode Island. Many place names are taken from the languages of native peoples. Specific (personal or animal) names and general words or phrases are used, sometimes translated and sometimes not.\n\nA great many names that appear to be Native American in origin were created by non-Natives with at best a rudimentary grasp of native languages. Pasadena, California's early Anglo residents, looking for a pleasant sounding (euphonious) name for the town, used the Ojibwe word \"pa-sa-de-na\", which means \"of the valley\". Similarly, Negaunee, Michigan's name is derived from the Ojibwe word \"nigani\" meaning \"foremost, in advance, leading\", which was determined to be the closest Ojibwe approximation to the English word \"pioneer\".\n\nNine counties in the U.S. state of Michigan have names invented by Henry Schoolcraft, usually adapted from parts of Native American words, but sometimes having parts from Greek, Arabic and Latin roots. \"(see List of counties in Michigan.)\" In some cases the native meanings of a place name are wholly lost, despite guesses and theories, for example Tampa and Oregon.\n\nPlace names in the United States tend to be more easily traceable to their origins, such as towns simply named after the founder or an important politician of the time, with no alterations except a simple suffix, like -town. Carson City, for instance, was named for Kit Carson.\n\nFrench, English and Gaelic derived names occur in Canada. There are also aboriginal place names.\n\nAustralian place names are mainly a mixture of aboriginal and British-derived toponyms.\n\nNew Zealand place names derive mostly from Maori and from British sources. The Maori named most of New Zealand's natural features. When Europeans began arriving in New Zealand from the 17th century they gave their own names to many geographical features and settlements, often after places in Britain or important settlers or famous British people. Recently there has been a movement to revive some Maori names.\n"}
{"id": "12591925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12591925", "title": "Quaternary science", "text": "Quaternary science\n\nQuaternary science is an inter-disciplinary field of study focusing on the Quaternary period, which encompasses the last 2.6 million years. The field studies the current ice age and the recent interstadial, between numerous glaciations, the Holocene, and uses proxy evidence to reconstruct the past environments during this period to infer the climatic and environmental changes that have occurred.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6308125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6308125", "title": "Supply Reef", "text": "Supply Reef\n\nSupply Reef is a submerged circular reef of volcanic origin in the Northern Mariana Islands chain, about NW of the Maug Islands. Presently this igneous seamount is roughly below the ocean's surface and about in diameter.\n"}
{"id": "6768087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6768087", "title": "Susupe", "text": "Susupe\n\nSusupe is a village on Saipan, Northern Mariana Islands. Susupe is also known as Susupi. As of 2000, its population is 2,083.\n\nCapitol Hill is the seat of government for the Commonwealth but the judicial branch is headquartered at the House of Justice in Susupe. Thus, the CNMI is one of three U.S. jurisdictions whose supreme courts are not located in the state/commonwealth capitol proper. The other two jurisdictions are California, whose seat of government is \nSacramento but the judicial capital is San Francisco; and Louisiana, whose supreme court remained in New Orleans when the state capital was moved to Baton Rouge.\n\nCommonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands Public School System serves the town. Marianas High School is located in Susupe, across the street from the House of Justice.\n\nJoeten-Kiyu Public Library (JKPL) of the State Library of the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands is in Susupe.\n\nThree major hotels serve the Susupe area and its surrounding neighborhoods. (Several little hotels also provide the area with more affordable options.)\n\nLake Susupe is the only lake in Saipan and is located in the village of Susupe. It is home to a few species of birds found only in the Marianas. One of the endangered birds, the Mariana common moorhen, has a Saipan population of 30-40. It is unknown what natural trees grew here because they were cleared in the 1930s to make room for sugar cane fields and the native fish died when the tilapia was introduced in the 1960s. Today, large ironwood trees grow and, in some places, very thick reeds. There are also 17 little ponds around the lake. The ponds and even the lake are home to very large fancy-tail guppies. The lake is often visited by birds from Asia which migrate to Lake Susupe during the winter.\n"}
{"id": "22479317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22479317", "title": "Telephone numbers in Lesotho", "text": "Telephone numbers in Lesotho\n\nCountry Code: +266<br>\nInternational Call Prefix: 00<br>\nTrunk Prefix: \nPhone numbers in Lesotho are eight digits long, the first two digits being the area code. Previously, Lesotho had area codes, which were integrated into the South African telephone numbering plan, and calls could be made from South Africa using the regional code 050. For example, to call a number in Maseru, subscribers would dial 0501, while to call a number in Mazenod, they would dial 05022. From the rest of the world, subscribers would dial +266 1.\n\n\nThere had been some interest in using part of this country's numbering scheme to run international SMS promotions or competitions, as when +CNN is spelt out on an E.161 standard telephone keypad, it translates to +266. CNN's degree of interest in the idea was unknown at the time.\n\n"}
{"id": "45584924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45584924", "title": "Timeline of Yerevan", "text": "Timeline of Yerevan\n\nThe following is a of the history of the city of Yerevan, Armenia.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35280868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35280868", "title": "Tournaisis", "text": "Tournaisis\n\nThe Tournaisis (or Tournai and the Tournaisis) was a small territory in the Low Countries independent during the Middle Ages, consisting of the city of Tournai (Dutch: \"Doornik\") and the surrounding area. \n\nIt was one of the great centres of Early Netherlandish (or 'Flemish') painting. Robert Campin settled there and attracted students including Rogier Van Der Weyden and Jacques Daret. \n\nIt also produced the important Franco-Flemish composers Pierre de la Rue and Marbrianus de Orto.\n\nThe Tournaisis was situated between two larger neighbours: the County of Flanders, and the County of Hainaut. Its origins lie in a Roman \"pagus\" within the \"civitas\" of the Menapii, of which it became the chief city in late Roman times. It had some independence and power in the Middle Ages because it became the seat of the Bishopric of Tournai.\n\nThe territory, like that of Flanders, but unlike neighbouring Hainaut, was part of early medieval West Francia, which evolved into France. However, this rule was not always effective. It came under French rule during the reign of Philip IV of France, and remained under French control until it was conquered by Emperor Charles V in 1521. It remained part of the Habsburg Netherlands until 1789, eventually becoming part of modern Belgium.\n\nThe Tournaisis was considered part of the Seventeen Provinces.\n"}
{"id": "55471473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55471473", "title": "Veljunski Ponorac", "text": "Veljunski Ponorac\n\nVeljunski Ponorac is a village in Croatia, under the Slunj township, in Karlovac County.\n"}
