{"id": "53122494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53122494", "title": "1979 Ba'ath Party Purge", "text": "1979 Ba'ath Party Purge\n\nThe 1979 Ba'ath Party Purge was a public purge of the Iraqi Ba'ath Party orchestrated on July 22, 1979 by then-president Saddam Hussein.\n\nEarlier in 1979, Iraqi president and chairman of the Revolutionary Command Council (RCC) Ahmed Hassan al-Bakr had begun to make treaties with Syria, also under Ba'athist leadership, that would lead to the unification of the two countries. Syrian president Hafez al-Assad would become deputy leader of the union, and this would drive Saddam Hussein into obscurity. Hussein acted to secure his grip on power. The ailing al-Bakr resigned on July 16 under the threat of force, and formally transferred the presidency and chairmanship of the RCC to the \"cherished comrade Saddam Hussein\". RCC secretary Muhyi Abdel-Hussein objected to the transfer of power.\n\nHussein hurriedly convened an assembly of party leaders on July 22. During the assembly, which he ordered videotaped, he claimed to have uncovered a fifth column within the party. Abdel-Hussein, broken after days of physical torture and under the threat of his family's execution, confessed to taking a leading role in a Syrian-backed plot against the Iraqi government and gave the names of 68 alleged co-conspirators. These were removed from the room one by one as their names were called and taken into custody. After the list was read, Hussein congratulated those still seated in the room for their past and future loyalty. Those arrested at the meeting were subsequently tried together and found guilty of treason. Twenty-two men, including five members of the Revolutionary Command Council, were sentenced to execution. Those spared were given weapons and directed to execute their comrades.\n\nBy August 1, hundreds of high-ranking Ba'ath Party members had been executed. On August 8, the Iraqi News Agency announced that twenty-one of the twenty-two Iraqis were executed by firing squad for \"their part in a plot to overthrow Iraq's new president\". The twenty-second man was condemned to death in absentia because he was \"nowhere to be found\", the agency said. A tape of the assembly and of the executions was distributed throughout the country. \"On an August afternoon in 1979, his face tense and somber, Saddam Hussein from the balcony of the presidential palace in Baghdad \"informed a chanting crowd of 50,000 supporters \"that he had just witnessed the punishment the state court had ordered for 21 of those men: They had been executed by a firing squad. The crowd cheered\".\n\nEssayist Christopher Hitchens argues that the purge was the watershed moment in which Hussein became absolute master of Iraq, comparable to the Night of the Long Knives in Nazi Germany or the murder of Sergey Kirov, culminating in the Great Purge in the Soviet Union.\n"}
{"id": "1050503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1050503", "title": "Act of Proscription 1746", "text": "Act of Proscription 1746\n\nThe Act of Proscription (19 Geo. 2, c. 39) was an Act of the Parliament of Great Britain, which came into effect in Scotland on 1 August 1746. It was part of a series of efforts to assimilate the Scottish Highlands, ending their ability to revolt, and the first of the 'King's laws' which sought to crush the Clan system in the aftermath of the Jacobite rising of 1745. These laws were finally repealed on 1 July 1782.\n\nThe British forces under the Duke of Cumberland had been brutal in putting down any hint of Jacobite resistance among Highlanders, and the Act can be seen as Parliament asserting the supremacy of the Civil Courts over unconstitutional military coercion.\n\nIt was mainly a restatement of the earlier Disarming Act, but with more severe punishments which this time were rigorously enforced. Punishments started with fines, with jail until payment and possible forced conscription for late payment. Repeat offenders were \"liable to be transported to any of his Majesty's plantations beyond the seas, there to remain for the space of seven years\", effectively indentured servitude.\n\nThe penalties for wearing \"highland clothing\" as stated in the Dress Act 1746 were \"imprisonment, without bail, during the space of six months, and no longer; and being convicted for a second offence before a court of justiciary or at the circuits, shall be liable to be transported...\" No lesser penalties were allowed for.\n\nThe elements of the act relating to the proscription of arms applied to the Highlands of Scotland, i.e. the counties of Dunbarton, on the north side of the water of Leven, Stirling on the north side of the river of Forth, Perth, Kincardine, Aberdeen, Inverness, Nairn, Cromarty, Argyll, Forfar, Banff, Sutherland, Caithness, Elgin and Ross.\n\nThe Dress Act applied to the whole of Scotland.\n\nDr. Samuel Johnson commented that \"the last law by which the Highlanders are deprived of their arms, has operated with efficacy beyond expectations ... the arms were collected with such rigour, that every house was despoiled of its defence\".\n\nA new section, which became known as the Dress Act, banned wearing of \"the Highland Dress\". Provision was also included to protect those involved in putting down the rebellion from lawsuits. Measures to prevent children from being \"educated in disaffected or rebellious principles\" included a requirement for school prayers for the King and Royal family.\n\nThe most severe penalties, at a minimum six months' incarceration and transportation to a penal colony for a second offence, made these the most severe portion of this act.\n\nThe Act of Proscription was followed by the Heritable Jurisdictions (Scotland) Act 1746 which removed the feudal authority the Clan Chieftains had enjoyed. Scottish heritable sheriffdoms reverted to the Crown, and other heritable jurisdictions, including regalities, came under the power of the courts.\n\n"}
{"id": "9494199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9494199", "title": "Administrative Council", "text": "Administrative Council\n\nAdministrative Council () was a part of Council of State of the Congress Poland. Introduced by the Constitution of the Kingdom of Poland in 1815, it was composed of 5 ministers, special nominees of the King and the Namestnik of the Kingdom of Poland. The Council executed King's will, ruled in the cases outside the ministers competence and prepared projects for the Council of State.\n\nThe Council decided to revolt during the November Uprising in 1830 against Tsar Nicholas I, and transformed itself into governing Executive Commission.\n\nThe Council was reformed after the death of namestnik Józef Zajączek in 1826, after the fall of November Uprising in 1831, after the liquidation of Council of State in 1841, after the reforms of Aleksander Wielopolski in 1863 and after the fall of January Uprising. It was liquidated on 15 June 1867.\n\nThe Council was reformed:\n\n"}
{"id": "7132990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7132990", "title": "Alaska political corruption probe", "text": "Alaska political corruption probe\n\nThe Alaska political corruption probe refers to a 2003 to 2010 widespread investigation by the Public Integrity Section of the U.S. Department of Justice, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and the Internal Revenue Service into political corruption of nine then-current or former Alaskan state lawmakers, as well as Republican US Representative Don Young and then-US Senator, Republican Ted Stevens. Sometimes referred to as \"The Corrupt Bastard's Club\" or the \"Operation Polar Pen\", the investigation focused on the oil industry, fisheries and for-profit prison industries.\n\nBy the spring of 2006, the FBI set up in a Baranof hotel suite just three blocks away from the capitol building in Juneau. From their position in the hotel suite, they gathered evidence, such as a videotape of VECO's CEO Bill Allen arranging paper money for legislators, and made other observations By August 2008, the investigation resulted in indictments against six sitting or former Alaska Republican state legislators on corruption charges. In August 2008 US Senator Ted Stevens was indicted and, by October, he was convicted in Washington, D.C. on seven felony counts of failure to disclose gifts. The convictions, eight days before the November 2008 election, resulted in his narrow loss, after 40 years in the U.S. Senate, to Democrat Mark Begich. His convictions were later set aside because of prosecutorial misconduct and the United States Department of Justice ended further prosecution.\n\nIn addition to the conviction of US Senator Stevens, two executives of the VECO Corporation, an oilfield services contractor, pleaded guilty to charges of bribery and conspiracy to impede the Internal Revenue Service. Alaska businessmen/lobbyists Bill Weimar (former for-profit halfway house owner) and Bill Bobrick, as well as Jim Clark, the former governor's chief of staff, also were indicted and convicted. Clark's guilty plea and sentence were later vacated before he was ordered to report to custody. That was followed by ex-Alaska State Rep. Bruce Weyhrauch's Supreme Court challenge to the Honest services fraud statute. His case was decided on June 24, 2010, in association with the Skilling v. United States and Conrad Black case decisions. While the Court overturned the Skilling conviction, stating that the Honest services fraud statute was not applicable to private citizens, the Court upheld, but narrowed the application of the Honest services fraud statute by stating that it was applicable to public officials only, and remanding Weyhrauch's conviction to the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals.\n\nFederal prosecutors later agreed not to retry Weyhrauch on felony charges in exchange for Weyhrauch's agreement to plead guilty to a single misdemeanor in an Alaska State Court. An Alaska State Court Judge then gave Weyhrauch a three-month suspended jail sentence, and a $1,000 fine.\n\nThe probe began in 2004 or earlier. By 2006 the name \"Corrupt Bastards Club\" (alternatively \"Corrupt Bastards Caucus\") began being used to designate Alaska legislators implicated in the federal corruption (a.k.a., \"Polar Pen\") investigation. The nickname originated in the spring of 2006 as a barroom joke among Alaska legislators after a guest article by Lori Backes, executive director of All Alaska Alliance, that ran in Alaska's three largest newspapers named 11 lawmakers who had received large campaign contributions from executives of the oilfield services company VECO Corporation, which had a long history of making large campaign contributions to Alaska politicians. The article also named Senate President Ben Stevens as having received large consulting fees from VECO.\n\nIn her article, Backes detailed the amount of political campaign donations contributed between 1998 and 2004 by the top seven VECO executives to Alaska lawmakers who were in office at the time her article was written. The figures were based on reports to the Alaska Public Offices Commission\n\n\nAdditionally, Backes noted the consulting contract Senate President Ben Stevens (R-Anchorage) had with VECO Corporation and financial relationships other lawmakers had with other companies active in the oil and gas industry, including Conoco Phillips and ASCG Incorporated, the latter a subsidiary of Arctic Slope Regional Corporation which is heavily involved in oilfield business in Alaska.\n\nAccording to Chenault, one of the lawmakers named in the article: \"Somebody walked up [in the bar] and said, 'You corrupt bastards,' and that name stuck.\" Hats with the label \"CBC,\" standing for \"Corrupt Bastards Club\" or \"Corrupt Bastards Caucus,\" were later printed up, but according to Chenault \"that was the extent of the CBC deal.\"\n\nIn the first week of August 2006, an ill Representative Carl Moses returned to Juneau from receiving treatment in Anchorage, to cast a critical vote that insured passage of a bill giving tax breaks to the oil industry. The vote took place, shortly after Moses received campaign contributions from Bill Allen and five other VECO executives, the only Democrat to receive any from that source.\n\nThe FBI had set up in a Baranof hotel suite just three blocks away from the capitol building in Juneau. There they videotaped VECO's CEO Bill Allen, peeling off bills for legislators to stuff in their pockets. According to the Juneau Empire, Ray Metcalfe said he had spoken with FBI agents about the case, but didn't know how the feds first got interested in Alaska.\"I think the jury is still out on what started this,\" said Metcalfe. Juneau Mayor Bruce Botelho, the longest serving attorney general in the state's history over two administrations, said it looked like those state agencies responsible for ensuring ethical government failed to do their jobs, but it is too soon to tell for sure.\n\nOn August 31 and September 1, 2006 the FBI served some 20 search warrants in Anchorage, Juneau, Wasilla, Eagle River, Girdwood, and Willow, primarily on the offices of several legislators. Republican legislators whose offices were searched included Senator John Cowdery, Senate President (and son of U.S. Senator Ted Stevens) Ben Stevens, Representatives Vic Kohring, Bruce Weyhrauch, Pete Kott and Bev Masek as well as Democratic Senator Donny Olson. The warrants permitted the search of computer files, personal diaries, Alaska Public Offices Commission reports, and any other items showing evidence of financial ties between legislators and the oilfield services company VECO Corporation, as well as clothing items with the phrase \"Corrupt Bastards Club\" or its related acronym printed on it. A search warrant for Sen. Olson's Juneau office, made available by his office to the public, specifically authorized the seizure of documents relating to VECO Corporation executives Bill Allen (CEO), Richard Smith (vice president), Pete Leathard (president), and Roger Chan (chief financial officer). The warrant also authorized the seizure of clothing, including hats, bearing the logos or phrases \"VECO,\" \"Corrupt Bastards Caucus,\" \"Corrupt Bastards Club,\" or \"CBC\" printed on them.\n\nJohn Cowdery was indicted for bribery and extortion under official right and bribery concerning programs that receive federal funding.\n\nIt later emerged that the investigation of political corruption in Alaska was being managed not by the Alaska U.S. Attorney's office, but rather by the Public Integrity Section of the U.S. Department of Justice in Washington, D.C., with FBI agents working out of the FBI building in downtown Anchorage acting as lead investigators. The FBI raids on legislative offices on August 31 and September 1 involved dozens of extra FBI agents brought up from the Lower 48, but sent home after the initial round of searches and interviews. Other agencies, including the Internal Revenue Service, were also involved.\n\nThe Public Integrity Section, created in 1976, is charged with investigation of election fraud, misconduct by federal judges, and corruption of elected officials in all levels of government — federal, state, and local. While U.S. Attorney offices also investigate and prosecute public corruption cases, because U.S. Attorneys are political appointees in local jurisdictions, they are sometimes recused from particular cases.\n\nBrooke Miles, then-executive director of the Alaska Public Offices Commission, reported that the FBI began to collect public campaign reports and financial disclosure records on selected Alaska legislators perhaps a year prior to the raids, and returned at the start of 2006 to obtain such records for all legislators.\n\nThe FBI conducted a second search on the legislative office of Republican State Senator Ben Stevens on September 18, 2006, seizing among other items documents related to the proposed natural gas pipeline and the oil and gas tax law which had been discussed in the Alaska Legislature during the regular and two special legislative sessions in 2006, as well as items related to his work on the Senate Ethics Committee and documents related to fisheries. Stevens disclosed to the \"Anchorage Daily News\" that the FBI seized items during both searches of his office related to the Alaska Fisheries Marketing Board (AFMB), created under legislation by Ben Steven's father, U.S. Senator Ted Stevens, to distribute federal grants to promote Alaska seafood. Ben Stevens had been chair of AFMB until early in 2006. He had received consulting fees from at least three organizations that had benefited from the grants — over $250,000 during the time he served on the board. Other documents related to fisheries were also seized in the September 18 FBI search. One of these was a copy of an affidavit by Victor Smith, a salmon fisherman from Friday Harbor who alleged that Stevens had been paid by a seiners association to lobby his father and that he failed to disclose that income as required by Alaska law.\n\nIn October 2006, Rep. Vic Kohring's attorney, Wayne Anthony Ross, provided the \"Anchorage Daily News\" with a copy of the search warrant that had been served on Kohring on August 31, as well as a list of items seized. The warrant showed that federal investigators were also interested in information related to developer Marc Marlow and correspondence between Kohring and the Alaska Department of Corrections. Ross told the \"Anchorage Daily News\" that his client had been questioned by the FBI about Cornell Companies' (now owned by GEO Group) effort in cooperation with VECO Corporation to build a private prison in Whittier, an effort which failed due to gubernatorial and bipartisan legislative opposition. The \"Daily News\" observed, \"Those documents, though lacking detail or context, suggest that the probe is wide-ranging and not focused on any one company, issue or individual.\"\n\nThe observation by the \"Anchorage Daily News\" and other news organizations that the probe had a wider focus than legislators' ties to VECO Corporation was confirmed on December 7, 2006, when Representative Tom Anderson - whose offices had not been targeted by the August and September FBI raids — was arrested on allegations of extortion, bribery, conspiracy, and money laundering involving his support of a private corrections company. Anderson was accused of accepting money from a private corrections company through a shell corporation set up by a lobbyist, identified in Anderson's charging documents as \"Lobbyist A\" and later identified as prominent Anchorage lobbyist Bill Bobrick, to disguise the source of payments. Unbeknownst to Anderson or Bobrick, their contact with the private corrections company was a confidential source of the FBI working undercover. According to federal prosecutors, the private corrections company — unidentified in the court documents but widely believed to be Cornell Companies — was not implicated in the plot, and had been unaware of the FBI investigation until Anderson's indictment and arrest. The confidential informant in the case was Frank Prewitt, a former commissioner of the Alaska Department of Corrections who later took jobs first with halfway house entrepreneur Bill Weimar, and subsequently with Cornell Companies, which bought out Weimar to establish its Alaska operations. Court documents filed on March 22, 2010 in a criminal appeal indicated that Prewitt had been paid $200,000 for his assistance in investigating and convicting his former associates.\n\nAdditional subpoenas were served on fishery executives involved with federal funding and the United Fishermen of Alaska who have had business associations with Ben Stevens.\n\nOn May 4, 2007, former Representatives Pete Kott (R-Eagle River) and Bruce Weyhrauch (R-Juneau) were arrested and charged with bribery, extortion wire and mail fraud. Then-Representative Vic Kohring (R-Wasilla) later turned himself in and was similarly charged. All three were arraigned in Juneau. Charges against the three involved allegations of soliciting and receiving money and favors from VECO chief executive officer Bill Allen and chief lobbyist and V.P. Rick Smith in return for their votes on an oil tax law favored by the VECO that was the subject of vigorous debate during the 2006 legislative session and two special sessions in 2006.\n\nKott and Kohring were both convicted, but their convictions were later vacated due to misconduct by the prosecuting attorneys. In 2011 both agreed to plead guilty. Prosecutors agreed to recommend both men be sentenced to time served and subject to conditions upon release. Kohring lost his latest bid to appeal his conviction, turned down unanimously by an en banc hearing of the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals.\n\nAfter federal charges were dropped, Weyhrauch pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor lobbying violation, his sentence was suspended, and he was fined $1,000. It was estimated he had spent $300,000 on his defense.\n\nOf the original seven lawmakers who had their legislative offices searched, only State Senator Don Olson (D-Nome) was not implicated in the scandal.\n\nOn May 7, 2007, VECO CEO Bill Allen and Vice President for Community & Government Affairs Rick Smith pleaded guilty in U.S. District Court in Anchorage to charges of extortion, bribery, and conspiracy to impede the Internal Revenue Service.\n\nIn addition to the three politicians arraigned on May 4, the new court filings mention illegal payments made to a former state senator, named as \"Senator B\" in court documents, who received over $240,000 from VECO Corp. over several years, income which Senator B reported as \"consulting fees.\" In the May 7 guilty pleas by Allen and Smith, they admit that the only work done by Senator B in exchange for the funds was advancing VECO's agenda in the state legislature. The only former state senator who matches the information contained in court documents about Senator B is former Senator Ben Stevens (R-Anchorage), son of U.S. Senator Ted Stevens (R-Alaska). Ben Stevens was not indicted. Another state senator discussed in the court documents, identified as \"Senator A\" in court documents, was identified by sources as John Cowdery.\n\nOn May 11, 2007 at a meeting of the VECO Corporation's board of directors and shareholders, Bill Allen resigned as the company's CEO and chairman of its board of directors, citing \"the best interest of the corporation, all of our companies, and our many valued employees and customers.\" Allen's daughter Tammy Kerrigan replaced him as chairman of the board; a new CEO had not yet been chosen. At the same meeting, Rick Smith resigned from his position as vice president of community and government affairs. It was not clear from the VECO statement if Smith's position will be refilled.\n\nOn May 14, 2007, William (Bill) Bobrick, a prominent municipal lobbyist in Anchorage, was charged with one count of conspiracy to commit extortion, bribery, and money laundering in the same scheme for which Rep. Tom Anderson was indicted the previous December. Bobrick was the creator of the shell corporation, Pacific Publishing, through which money was allegedly funneled to Anderson. Bobrick also received money through the scheme. Bobrick appeared in U.S. District Court in Anchorage on May 16, where he entered a guilty plea. Bobrick was sentenced after the trial of Tom Anderson, scheduled to begin June 25, where Bobrick testified for the prosecution. Under sentencing guidelines Bobrick faced a possible 2 to 2½ years imprisonment, but his sentence was reduced to six months in return for his cooperation with prosecutors.\n\nIn reaction to Bobrick's part in the corruption scandal, the Anchorage Assembly on May 22, 2007 unanimously approved a measure which prohibits individuals who have been convicted of a felony within the past 10 years of registering as a lobbyist with the Municipality of Anchorage.\n\nTed Stevens was also investigated by both the FBI and IRS. Authorities investigated an extensive remodeling project done at the Stevens \"chalet\" in the small town of Girdwood, Alaska. Unusual aspects of this remodeling project that were investigated were that the project was supervised by VECO, and invoices for the work on the residence were first sent to VECO before being sent to the senator. Some of the issues investigated were the extent of work done on the home, exactly whom had paid the invoices from the construction contractors and their subcontractors, and the purpose and extent of VECO's involvement.\n\nOn the morning of July 30, 2007, agents from the FBI and the IRS raided the residence in Girdwood. Photographs and video of the inside and outside of the residence were taken. Wine bottles in the home were photographed as objects of interest. The raid continued well into the evening. \n\nOn July 29, 2008, just a day short of the anniversary of the Girdwood raids, Stevens was charged with seven counts of false statements on financial disclosures involving VECO, the oil services company in Alaska, and the renovations done on his home.\n\nOn October 27, 2008, U.S. Senator Ted Stevens was successfully prosecuted in the District of Columbia. He was found guilty by a jury of all seven felonies against him. The case had been prosecuted by Principal Deputy Chief Brenda K. Morris, Trial Attorneys Nicholas A. Marsh and Edward P. Sullivan of the Criminal Division's Public Integrity Section, headed by Chief William M. Welch II, and Assistant U.S. Attorneys Joseph W. Bottini and James A. Goeke from the District of Alaska. Eight days after the verdict, Stevens narrowly lost re-election to Anchorage's Democratic then-Mayor Mark Begich. He had held his seat since December 24, 1968.\n\nOn February 13, 2009, U.S. District Judge Emmet Sullivan cited William M. Welch II, Brenda K. Morris, Patty Merkamp Stemler (Chief of the Justice Department Criminal Appeals Section), and another Justice Department attorney for contempt of court. Judge Sullivan amended the contempt citation on February 14, 2009 to remove the fourth attorney. The contempt citation was for failing to turn over to defense counsel for former Senator Stevens documents relating to a complaint by Chad Joy, a Federal Bureau of Investigation agent, alleging misconduct by prosecutors in the Stevens case. Judge Sullivan had ordered, on February 3, 2009, that the documents in question be given to defense counsel. In the contempt citation, Judge Sullivan described the conduct of the Justice Department's lawyers as \"outrageous.\"\n\nOn February 16, 2009, the Justice Department stated in a court filing that it had removed six attorneys from \"litigation relating to allegations of misconduct in (the case against former Senator Stevens).\" The six attorneys were William M. Welch II, Brenda K. Morris, Nicholas A. Marsh, Edward P. Sullivan, Joseph W. Bottini, and James A. Goeke.\n\nOn April 1, 2009 Attorney General Eric Holder decided to drop all charges against Stevens after a review of the case turned up alleged evidence of prosecutorial misconduct, including failure to fully disclose potentially exculpatory evidence in response to a \"Brady\" motion by Stevens' attorneys. Since Stevens had not yet been sentenced, Holder's action effectively vacated Stevens' conviction. \n\nProsecutor Marsh, although he had been removed as the team leader of the Alaska probe's prosecution, well prior to the Stevens debacle, had become episodically depressed as a result of the extreme length of the investigation into the conduct of the team involved in the Senator's case. This was exacerbated by his consequent reassignment to less favorable international duties, pending resolution of the inquiry, though he had anticipated complete exoneration. On September 26, 2010, not long after he returned from a trip to Europe, he hung himself in the basement of his home in Takoma Park, Maryland.\n\nStevens meanwhile, 17 months after leaving office, died in a corporate executive airplane crash on August 9, 2010. He had been en route to a remote hunting lodge in western Alaska.\n\nIn 2008, Clark admitted that he was aware that Veco Corp had paid $10,000 for a political poll to gauge the popularity of then-incumbent Governor Murkowski, and was charged with \"honest services fraud\". Before he was sentenced, the US Supreme Court ruled that the statute was drafted with unconstitutional vagueness and henceforth will only cover \"fraudulent schemes to deprive another of honest services through bribes or kickbacks supplied by a third party who ha[s] not been deceived.\" Since Clark was guilty of neither bribes nor kickbacks, all charges were voided.\n\nOn August 11, 2008, the \"Anchorage Daily News\" reported that Bill Weimar, a former operator of halfway houses for inmates in Alaska was indicted and charged with two felony counts alleging campaign finance violations. Weimar funneled money to an unnamed consultant for an unnamed state legislative candidate in 2004. Weimar agreed to plead guilty to the charges, and in exchange prosecutors will ask for a reduced sentence, a nonbinding agreement that the judge is free to modify. Weimar subsequently pleaded guilty in federal court in Anchorage. His sentencing occurred on November 12, 2008. Weimar was sentenced to 6 months in federal prison and ordered to pay a US $75,000 fine. In 2010, Weimar who was on federal probation after serving six months in prison for illegal campaign contributions, allegedly forced sex on a six-year-old Sarasota girl. After being indicted on January 23, 2011 he fled to Havana, Cuba. From there he flew to Cancun, Mexico where he was arrested on his yacht and extradited back to Florida.\n\nOn December 15, 2008, the \"Anchorage Daily News\" reported that former Alaska state senator Jerry Ward had been implicated in the probe. Ward allegedly convinced a witness in the trial against Senator Ted Stevens to lie about an immunity deal in court to ensure that he was included in it and would therefore not be prosecuted. According to federal prosecutors, Ward had been under investigation for some time over his relationship with Bill Weimar, who was convicted of two felony counts in the matter and sentenced to prison. While he was presumed to be under continued investigation, Ward was not charged.\n\nOn December 18, 2008 KTUU Anchorage Channel 2, an affiliate of NBC, reported that John Cowdery had agreed to change his plea from not guilty to guilty in exchange for some of the charges against him being dropped. As part of his plea agreement, Cowdery did not have to testify against other defendants in the case. No sentencing parameters were agreed upon as a result of this agreement. Cowdery subsequently pleaded guilty in federal court on December 19, 2008. Due in part to his age and alleged infirmity, he was only sentenced to 6 months of house arrest and fined US$25,000. Cowdery died on July 13, 2013.\n\nOn March 13, 2009, the \"Anchorage Daily News\" reported that former Alaska state representative Beverly Masek had pleaded guilty to soliciting and accepting at least $4,000 in bribes from VECO Corp. Masek, who originally rose to fame by competing in the Iditarod Trail Sled Dog Race while still known by her maiden name of Beverly Jerue, was first elected to the House in 1994. Masek represented a district consisting of the northern and western reaches of the Matanuska-Susitna Borough in the House from 1995 to 2005 before being defeated by Mark Neuman in the 2004 primary election. Masek was sentenced on September 23, 2009.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47498740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47498740", "title": "American Rainwater Catchment Systems Association", "text": "American Rainwater Catchment Systems Association\n\nThe American Rainwater Catchment Systems Association (commonly referred to as ARCSA) is an American non-profit association founded by Dr. Hari Krishna in 1994, focused on rainwater awareness and to promote sustainable rainwater harvesting (RWH) practices in the United States and around the world.\n\nARCSA's efforts include: creating a favorable regulatory atmosphere, creating a resource pool and educating professionals and the general public regarding safe rainwater harvesting design, installation and maintenance practices. It has more than 1,500 members consisting of both manufacturers as well as dealers/distributors of equipment.\n\nIn 2014, ARCSA created a White House petition to stimulate the rainwater-harvesting industry. While the petition didn't receive the 100,000 votes in 3 months needed to move to the next stage, ARCSA used this as a platform to begin a petition with Change.org to create an International Rainwater Harvesting Day.\n\nIn 2015, ARCSA merged with the Canadian Association of Rainwater Management (CANARM) and will continue as a North American association.\n\n"}
{"id": "15470934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15470934", "title": "Animal Welfare Party", "text": "Animal Welfare Party\n\nAnimal Welfare Party (AWP) is a minor political party in the United Kingdom campaigning on an animal welfare, environment and health platform.\n\nThe party was founded in December 2006 by Jasmijn de Boo, a Dutch national, of Kennington, London, and Shaun Rutherford of Milford Haven, Wales, as Animals Count!. The party was registered with the Electoral Commission on 22 January 2007.\n\nIn October 2010, the party elected a new leader, Vanessa Hudson, whose aims are to increase awareness of the party and to expand its membership. In 2013, the party changed its name from Animals Count! to the Animal Welfare Party.\n\nIn June 2013, Hudson joined leaders from other animal protection parties from across Europe in a meeting in The Hague organised by the Animal Politics Foundation of the Netherlands. At this meeting the animal protection parties of the Netherlands, Spain, Portugal, Germany, Denmark, Italy, Turkey and the UK discussed ways in which they could work together more effectively. Later that month, Hudson announced that the Animal Welfare Party would stand in the London region in the 2014 European Parliament elections.\n\nThe party says it was one of seven European animal protection parties contesting the 2014 European Parliament elections with the aim of returning dedicated representatives for animals to the EU Parliament for the first time. This European group of parties has become known informally as the EuroAnimal7 and includes PvdD of The Netherlands, PACMA of Spain, PAN of Portugal, Partei Mensch Umwelt Tierschutz of Germany, Djurens Parti of Sweden and Animal Party Cyprus.\n\nIn September 2017, the party gained its first elected representative after Alsager Town Councillor Jane Smith defected from the Green Party to the AWP.\n\nAWP's policies for Europe include:\n\nThe party initially intended to stand in the Welsh Assembly elections in 2007. In the London Assembly election, 2008, de Boo stood in Lambeth and Southwark, receiving 1,828 votes (1.12%). The party sponsored an electoral list of three candidates for the 2009 European Parliament election in the East of England, receiving 13,201 votes (0.8%).\n\nIn the United Kingdom general election, 2010, the party contested one seat, which it did not win. The party sponsored an electoral list of eight candidates for the 2014 European Parliament election in the London region, receiving 21,092 votes (0.96%). None were elected. Four AWP candidates contested the 2015 general election. None were elected. They stood in the 2016 London Assembly elections, receiving 1% of the vote and not having any candidates elected.\n\nGeneral election, 6 May 2010<br>\nGeneral election, 7 May 2015\nScottish Parliament election, 5 May 2016\n\n2009 European elections<br>\n2014 European elections\n"}
{"id": "1892125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1892125", "title": "Aristomenes", "text": "Aristomenes\n\nAristomenes () was a king of Messenia, celebrated for his struggle with the Spartans in the Second Messenian War (685–668 BC), and his resistance to them on Mount Eira for 11 years. At length the mountain fell to the enemy, while he escaped and, according to legend, was snatched up by the gods; in fact he died at Rhodes.\n\nAristomenes was a member of the Aepytid family, the son of Nicomedes (or, according to another version, of Pyrrhus) and Nicoteleia, and took a prominent part in stirring up the revolt against Sparta and securing the co-operation of Argos and Arcadia. He showed such heroism in the first encounter, at Derae, that the crown was offered to him, but he would accept only the title of commander-in-chief. His daring is illustrated by the story that he came by night to the temple of Athene \"of the Brazen House\" at Sparta, and there set up his shield with the inscription \"Dedicated to the goddess by Aristomenes from the Spartans.\"\n\nHis prowess contributed largely to the Messenian victory over the Spartan and Corinthian forces at \"The Boar's Barrow\" in the plain of Stenyclarus, but in the following year the treachery of the Arcadian king Aristocrates caused the Messenians to suffer a crushing defeat at \"The Great Trench.\" Aristomenes and the survivors retired to the mountain stronghold of Eira, where they defied the Spartans for eleven years. On one of his raids he and fifty of his companions were captured and thrown into the Caeadas, the chasm on Mount Taygetus into which criminals were cast. Aristomenes alone was saved, and soon reappeared at Eira: legend told how he was upheld in his fall by an eagle and escaped by grasping the tail of a fox, which led him to the hole by which it had entered.\n\nOn another occasion he was captured during a truce by some Cretan auxiliaries of the Spartans, and was released only by the devotion of a Messenian girl who afterwards became his daughter-in-law. At length Eira was betrayed to the Spartans (668 BC according to Pausanias), and after a heroic resistance Aristomenes and his followers had to evacuate Messenia and seek a temporary refuge with their Arcadian allies. A desperate plan to seize Sparta itself was foiled by Aristocrates, who paid with his life for his treachery. Aristomenes retired to Ialysus on Rhodes, where Damagetus, his son-in-law, was king, and died there while planning a journey to Sardis and Ecbatana to seek aid from the Lydian and Median sovereigns.\n\nAnother tradition represents him as captured and slain by the Spartans during the war. Though there seems to be no conclusive reason for doubting the existence of Aristomenes, his history, as related by Pausanias, following mainly the Messeniaca of the Cretan epic poet Rhianus (about 230 BC), is evidently largely interwoven with fictions. These probably arose after the foundation of Messene in 369 BC. Aristomenes's statue was set up in the stadium there: his bones were fetched from Rhodes and placed in a tomb surmounted by a column, and more than five centuries later heroic honours were still paid to him, and his exploits were a popular subject of song.\n\nAccording to explorer Richard Francis Burton, one story about Aristomenes, in which he had been thrown into a pit and had to escapebeing set free by Archidameiais the principal inspiration for one of the voyages of Sinbad the Sailor in the Arabian Nights.\n"}
{"id": "1549042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1549042", "title": "Assembly of Confessing Congregations (Uniting Church in Australia)", "text": "Assembly of Confessing Congregations (Uniting Church in Australia)\n\nThe Assembly of Confessing Congregations (ACC) is an evangelical or conservative Christian group, an expression of the Confessing Movement, within the Uniting Church in Australia (UCA) that formed after the 11th Assembly, on 13–14 October 2006 following a joint summit on 12 July 2006 between the Evangelical Members within the Uniting Church in Australia (EMU) and the Reforming Alliance within the Uniting Church in Australia. The group also includes a number of UCA congregations drawing their membership from various Pacific Islands nations, as well as Chinese, Korean and Aboriginal congregations.\n\nEMU (previously known as \"Evangelical Ministers of the UCA\") was strongest in South Australia where Methodism was the strongest strand coming into the UCA. EMU had gained prominence as a result of their opposition to gay ordination in the lead up to the 1997 Assembly, however while gay ordination was the catalyst in forming this group, EMU focused on the issue of Biblical authority.\n\nThe purpose of EMU was stated to be:\n\nThe RA within the Uniting Church was established in 2003 in response to the 10th Assembly's decision not to ban outright the ordination of practicing homosexuals.\n\nThe Assembly of Confessing Congregations within the Uniting Church in Australia (ACC) formed in response to the 11th's Assembly decision to pass a resolution which they believed brought the church closer to accepting ordained ministers in same gender relationships. It was inaugurated on the 13–14 October 2006 at Wesley Mission, Sydney, New South Wales 71 congregations formed the ACC at that time. They promulgated a statement on sexuality in response to this. They declared that the Uniting Church had been \"apostate\" in their decision making in regards to sexuality and leadership within the Uniting Church, with some Uniting Church members felt that the ACC was a church within a church.\n\nThe ACC is composed of congregations that each decided through a formal meeting to join.\n\nA statement of sexuality, \"The Charter and a Confessing Statement\".\n"}
{"id": "37509661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37509661", "title": "Burmese resistance movement 1885–95", "text": "Burmese resistance movement 1885–95\n\nThe Burmese Resistance Movement of 1885–1895 occurred almost immediately after the fall of Mandalay. Due to the rapidity of British advancement up the Irrawaddy River, the bulk of the Burmese army suffered few casualties. Many had not experienced actual fighting. Nevertheless, the issue of the Hluttaw’s order to surrender on 27 November 1885 meant that Burmese garrisons south of Mandalay had to disarm without putting up a fight. Soon widespread resistance started to break out in Upper Burma, Lower Burma, the Shan Hills, Kachin Hills and Chin Hills which did not die out until 1896.\n\nFighting first broke out in Upper Burma when between 18 and 25 December 1885, 200 Shans under the leadership of the Myinzaing Prince’s lieutenants Bo Manga, Myedu Myosa and Mg Lat positioned themselves along the course of the Myitnge River between Shwesayan and Maungtaw villages. On the night of 31 December 1885, the men attacked Mandalay. Myinzaing and his followers then attacked a group of British at Paleit and Htonbo in early January 1886. Following British suppression in 1886, Myinzaing was forced to move southwards, reestablishing himself at Yakhainggyi, 23 miles southeast of Kyaukse. He continued to harass the British around Kyaukse and Mandalay. The police station southeast of Mandalay was attacked on 18 April and on 30 April a great fire was started in Mandalay which killed Lt. Forbes and injured seven sepoys. Yakhainggyi continued to be the main base of operations for Myinzaing until May 1886, while the rest of his army remained at Kywetnapha and Hngetkyithaik.\n\nMyinzaing hatched a plan to capture Mandalay by launching a full-scale attack on the city in May 1886. 300 swordsmen and 100 musketeers would attack the police station and destroy the telegraph wires. Anaukwindawhmu U Paung would lead 200 swordsmen and 1500 Shan and Burmese musketeers to attack the city directly and slaughter Burmese ministers and officials who had capitulated under the British. Maung Gyi, Myinzaing’s maternal uncle, will take on Mandalay Hill and the northern suburbs with 100 swordsmen and 700 Shan and Burmese musketeers. Mongnai Sawbwa would invade the eastern suburbs and capture Yankin Hill with 300 swordsmen and 1000 Shan and Burmese musketeers. Lawksawk Sawbwa would invade Amarapura with 250 swordsmen and 700 Shan and Burmese musketeers. Myaukdawebo Maung Gale would then administer the oath of allegiance to all Sawbwas and Myosas. Nevertheless, Myinzaing’s plan could not be carried out as the British were able to uncover the activities of Myinzaing’s lieutenants, putting a stop to the plan. Four other monks namely U Dipa, U Ottama, U Nandiya and U Rewata were also arrested and detained at Akyab and Rangoon. In the end, Myinzaing was forced to retreat into the Myelat State of Ywangan. He contracted fever there in August 1886 and died soon after.\n\nMeanwhile, as troops of the Myinzaing Prince wreaked havoc in Mandalay, the Chaunggwa Princes along with the support of a local leader, Bo Shwe Yan, stationed themselves in Kabo with 300 to 500 men recruited from the villages of Chaunggwa, Kabo, Thetpan, Ngazinyaing, Lawagai, Oktwingan, Gyogya-U, Ingan, Zigyaung and Kokkogan. Earlier in April, Bo Shwe Yan attacked Shwedaung along with Bo Muang Gale and Bo Nga Nyein. In May, there was an attempt by the Chaunggwa Princes to combine forces with Myinzaing Prince. Their forces arrived at Gye village, 12 miles southwest of Kyaukse with 600 men to meet up with Myinzaing’s army at Natteik pass. This united front however did not materialize because of British retaliation. Bo Shwe Yan finally escaped into the jungles near Panlaung while the princes retreated back into Mandalay by 1887.\n\nA plot was hatched in 1887 in Mandalay to put Saw Yan Naing on the throne. Nevertheless, the plan was foiled once again by the British who arrested the ringleaders while Saw Yan Naing was dispatched to Rangoon. He then tried to moved to Hsenwi in the northern Shan States and then to the border region between Tawngpeng and Mongmit to establish a new base for further resistance, He were killed during fought with the British forces along the route.\n\nAlso, during the same period in December 1885 two brother princes Hteiktin Hmat and Hteiktin Thein, sons of Mindon’s brother the Kanaung Prince, attacked and captured Shwebo from Shwebo Myowun. On 23 December, after skirmishes with two companies of the Royal Welsh Fusiliers, they gave up Shwebo but continue to harass the British forces. After a major battle at Kadu Kunitywa, the princes were defeated. Hteiktin Thein died later in January 1886 but his brother Hteiktin continued the resistance. He then established alliances with local resistance leaders Bo Hla U and Singu Myowun Bo Pyan Gyi. After continual harass and strong British retaliation, Hteiktin Hmat retreated to the north. He attacked and captured Taze with 3500 men recruited from Myedu, Wuntho and Indauktha. However, the tough jungle life was unbearable to him and like Myinzaing Prince, he died of fever in August 1887.\n\nThe Shwegyobyu Prince, whose claim to royalty was probably questionable, rose up and mobilized his forces of resistance at Kanle in the southern part of the Chindwin district in the treacherous hills of the Pondaung range. His influence included Pagyi and Pakhangyi area as well with prominent followers such as Myingyan (Tayokmyo) Myowun U Kyaw Gaung under him. By 1887, he had extended his resistance activities into the Yaw country and then the Chin Hills. In one of the raids within the Pagyi region, Bo Sawba attacked and carried off the body of U Po O, a nephew of Kinwun Mingyi, who had surrendered his allegiance to the British. U Tha Gyi, another local man of influence defected from the British and joined in the resistance.\n\nAt the same time of the Shwegyobyu Prince attacks, the Bayingan (Viceroy) Prince also arose along with resistance movements that started in Mandalay and eventually moving north into Sagaing. In September 1887 he moved into the Pagyi region, establishing contacts with Shwegyobyu Prince and in particular, U Tha Gyi. The combined forces of both princes became a serious threat to the British. On 8 October 1887, the British then sent a force of 21 mounted Military Police and a detachment of the 2nd Hyderabad Contingent Infantry to surprise and suppress U Tha Gyi and the Bayingan Prince. U Thai Gyi and the Bayingan Prince managed to escape to Chinbyit where a second British force attacked from Kyadet on 12 October. Eventually U Thai Gyi and Bayingan were killed but not without also taking the lives of Major Kennedy, commander of the British Force, and Captain Beville, assistant commander of Chindwin district.\n\nIn early 1886, the Kyimyindaing Prince started off his resistance movement in Ava district before establishing himself in the area around Mahlaing. In March 1886, his forces took on British troops marching from Pagan to Yamethin via Mahlaing and Meiktila. He then combined forces with leaders like Yamethin Lewun, Theingon Thugyi, Buddhayaza and Thihaya when he moved south. Their forces managed to disrupt the communications of the British in Pyinmana. However, the British moved swiftly against the Prince and his forces, attacking his camp on 12 November 1886. The Kyimyindaing Prince was forced to withdraw but not without killing a British officer, Lieutenant Eckersley of the Somersetshire Regiment. British counter-attacks forced the Prince to retreat to Ywangan state where he and his men fought their last battle stoically till the last man standing.\n\nInitially starting his resistance movement from his base in Mandalay District, he moved to Maw, the Myelat state on the southeast border of Kyaukse at the end of 1887. This was followed by attacks from the British with the support of the Maw Ngwegunhmu. The Setkya prince was forced to withdraw east in 1888, establish a large following and making incursions into Kyauke district. He did some damage to the Military Police but was eventually captured by the Sawbwa of Lawksawk who handed him over to the British to be executed.\n\nAlthough in his fifties by the time of annexation, Bo Swe, the hereditary Thugyi of Mindat continued to fight against the British. He established his power in the region west of Minbu, between the Irrawaddy and Arakan hills. By December 1885, Bo Swe and his forces attacked a police station on the west frontier and subsequently moving into Malun township in 1886. Over there, he encountered the forces of Captain Rolland and 25 men from the Royal Scots Fusiliers. After which, Bo Swe retreated into the Arakan Yomas.\n\nHe emerged once again in May 1886 to attack Kani with 150 men. The British then came in from Pyilongyaw on 17 May and Bo Swe was forced to withdraw again to Yaw. However, this time the retreat was for tactical purposes so that he could organize his men more effectively. The British, at that time, set a bounty of Rs. 1,000 for the head of Bo Swe, which increased to Rs. 5,000 towards the end of 1887. Nevertheless, Bo Swe was unfazed. When in June 1886, the British attacked Bo Swe’s position at Padein with a force of 50 Military Police; Bo Swe was able to repel the attacks with reinforcement. The British commander Phayre was shot and killed in the skirmish and Bo Swe managed to hold his position at Padein. To salvage the loss of their commander, the British then sent reinforcements from Pagan led by Major Gordan with 95 rifles of the 2nd Bengal Infantry, 50 rifles of the Liverpool Regiment and 2 artillery pieces. On 19 July, Major Gordon’s forces clashed with BoSwe’s at a position near Ngape. Bo Swe eventually withdrew but not without inflicting losses of 8 killed and 26 wounded on the British side. Finding their strength rather deficient at Ngape, the British withdrew in July 1886, allowing Bo Swe to once again regroup and reconsolidate his forces in the region.\n\nAfter the Ngape incident, the British decoded to change tactics. They tried to win Bo Swe over to their side with the promise that he would be appointed Extra Assistant Commissioner 5th Grade at Ngape should he give himself up with his men and capture U Ottama. There was a further proviso that he would not be charged for the murder of Phayre. Nevertheless, Bo Swe refused. Incensed, the British increased their cavalry and mounted infantry forces at Ngape, systematically rooting out Bo Swe’s resistance base. Finally, Bo Swe made a last ditched effort at repelling the British forces in a ravine near Milangon in Thayetmyo district. He died a valiant death of fighting with only 10 of his men as compared to the more numerous mounted South Wales Borderers led by Major Harvey.\n\nBo Ya Nyun was the chief horseman of Welaung in Myingyan district. This district was well known for the high caliber of its cavalry. Due to his official position and his natural leadership ability, Bo Ya Nyun was able to gather a large following. Throughout the years 1887 and 1888, Bo Ya Ngun would carry out guerilla tactics on the British. Whenever the enemy forces were too great, he would retreat into the jungles around Popa. By 1889 Bo Ya Ngun had reconsolidated enough strength to establish himself formally at Welaung, launching attacks on the British from there. The British used the same tactics of offering amnesty in order to co-opt him but Bo Ya Nyun refused. However, some troops under him were taken in by the British offer. By 1890, Bo Ya Ngun’s resistance eventually crumbled and he surrendered to the British on 30 May 1890.\n\nIn 1886, upon receiving orders from the Myinzaing Prince, U Ottama together with U Thaung collected man and arms on both sides of the Man Creek to prepare for battle with the British. Several thugyis, including 600 to 700 mean joined their resistance forces. On 17 February, their forces attacked and took over Sagu. However, the British attacked back, pushing into Sagu and further into Pyilongyaw, rading U Ottama’s monastery. By this time both U Ottama and U Thaung had escaped to Pauk. The British then requested for their surrender at Salin before 14 April. They refused and with 40–50 men from Pyilongyaw and 500–600 men under Bo Shwe Tha of Warabyin and Bo Lu Gyi of Kan, together with the thugyis of Ngakwe, Kawton and Thechaung villages, they conducted an active campaign in the Salin and Sale districts. Fighting broke out on 13 March with a British force under Captain Dunsford at Kyaukpon, after which U Ottama retreated back again towards Pauk. By then, U Ottama’s strength had increased considerably after he had managed to enter into a successful communication with the forces under Bo Swe.\n\nOn 12 June 1886, the British started an attack near U Ottama’s position at Salin. U Ottama’s men killed Captain Dunsford and then besieging the British forces at Salin. The siege was broken by a relieving British force but only after the Burmese had killed its commander again, Captain Atkinson. Riding on his success, U Ottama reconsolidated his forces in the Minbu region. He then assumed the title of Mingyi and appointed five lieutenants – Bo Yaw Baw, Bo Kan Thi, U Ottara, Bo Kin and Bo Byaing Gyi – to take over villages under his domain. Theirs was a successful stronghold with the British not being able to make any progress infiltrating without U Ottama knowing their movements well in advance. The British then resorted to means of persuading and even buying over U Ottama’s followers, at the same time imposing severe penalties for those villagers who aided or abetted the resistance leaders. Gradually, these tactics succeeded and 1,204 of U Ottama’s men surrendered to the British. U Ottama himself was finally captured by the British near Legaing in June 1889.\n\nA Shan, Mayanchaung Pongyi was first appointed by King Thibaw to increase the intensity of revolt in Lower Burma before the outbreak of war. He subsequently roped in the help of Kyaukkalat, Pekkaleit and Shwehle Pongyis to stir up revolt in the region. After the fall of Mandalay, Mayanchaung Pongyis’ men made a simultaneous attack on Sittang, Winbadaw and Karawe on 15 December 1885. The very next day, the group proceeded to cut the telegraph lines at Thayethamein while another, led by a pongyi, captured Bilin. Another force also attacked Kyaikhto while a force of 300–500 mean attack on Shwegyin, the district headquarters. The attack was repulsed by British reinforments from Toungoo. Nevertheless, another of wave attack began again at Kyaikkaw, breaching the Abya embankment and destroyed the lock gates at Myitkyo.\n\nBy then, Symes had already posted a reward of Rs. 5,000 for the capture of Mayanchaung Pongyi. The British also started to reinforcement their strength at Shwegyin with an officer and 45 men of the Royal Scot Fusiliers and an officer and 100 of the 1st Bombay Grenadiers, while at Sittang there were 3 officers and 73 men of the Royal Scot Fusiliers, 2 officers and 65 men of the 1st Bombay Grenadiers and an officer and 50 men of the 5th Madras Infantry. There was also a Moulmein column with one officer and 175 men of the 9th Madras Infantry. Meanwhile, Mayanchaung Pongyi had established contact with U Po Min and U Min, sons of the old Kyaukkyi Mingyi, while appointing U Po Min Myowun and U Min thugyi of Kyaukki. Resistance then broke out in several places all at once in Kyaukkyi. Mayanchaung Pongyi by then had fled north to Yathaung, 30 miles northeast of Sittang, gathering a force as many as 300 to 800. From there, the main body moved on to Binban near Bilin while another detachment, estimated at 100 to 400, established themselves at Taungthalezeik, a betel depot 17 to 20 miles southeast of Shwegyin. On 11 January 1886, Major Robinson and 70 men advanced to meet with Mayanchaung Pongyi but were ambushed. Major Robinson was wounded badly while some of his men were killed. The British then increased their forces and Mayanchaung Pongyi was forced to retreat into the hills of Toungoo. Eventually, he was captured on 10 March 1886 and publicly hanged in front of Kyaikto police station.\n\nThe Limbin Confederacy, a union of Shan Sawbas and Myosas, had its origins before British annexation of Upper Burma when the Shan States refused to submit under the authority of King Thibaw, plotting to replace him with another suzerain who would repeal the Thathameda tax. They selected a disenfranchised prince of the house of Alaungpaya, also known as the Limbin prince to be their representative. However, the formation of the confederacy was still in its infancy when Mandalay had fallen to the British. Nevertheless, the immediate confrontation of the Limbin Confederacy was not with the British but with the chiefs against the recalcitrant Sawbas to Kengtung. The British managed to exploit this local feud to reinstate their control over the Shan hills. A few of the Shan Sawbas resisted while many defected to the British side. One by one, townships within the Shan states fell into British hands. Stubborn resistance fighters such as the Sawbas of Lawksawk and Mongnai put up a valiant fight, however they too crumbled under British guile and force. The break-up of the Limbin Confederacy eventually forced the Limbin Prince to submit. He was then taken to Calcutta where he stayed until 1912. He returned to Rangoon permanently in 1921, living in a house there free of charge and given a monthly grant of 16 pounds. He died in 1933.\n\nFormerly the descendent of a family of local influence in the Mogaung area, U Po Saw launched an attack on the British garrison along with widespread Kachin support. He met with strong British resistance consisting of 50 rifles of the Cheshire Regiment, 101 rifles of the Kalati Ghilzai Regiment, 500 rifles of the Bhamo Military Police, 25 Mounted Infantry and 2 mountain guns led by Captain Triscott whom had previously settled in on 14 January 1888. After a series of small-scale skirmishes, U Po Saw assembled over 400 men, mostly Shans of Kamaing, Mogaung and Uyu Seywa on the night of 20 May 1888, occupying the town of Mogaung. In this engagement, they lost 49 men but had also inflicted a loss of 8 men killed and 15 wounded on the British side.\n\nWith that loss of the British, they regrouped swiftly. In October 1888, a sanction was given to increase the size of the Moguang garrison with 200 men from Bhamo and two more mountain guns. At the same time, letters of ultimatum were sent to the Sama and Panga Duwas requiring them to make a formal submission and to surrender U Po Saw and his lieutenant, Bo Ti. The British then mounted a military offensive in three successive expeditions in the years 1888–89 with a column of 51 rifles of the Hampshire Regiment, 320 of the Mogaung Levy and two mountain guns under Captain O’Donnell. The British then occupied Kamaing on 11 January 1889, then Sama and finally Muklon. The resistance movement of U Po Saw was finally routed by 1889 with the Kachins offering stiff resistance throughout.\n\nThe Wuntho sawbas consisted of a father and son team. The father, U Shwe Tha, was made Sawba of Wuntho previously in 1866 until he relinquished his position in favor of his son in 1881, U Aung Myat. Both father and son were brought up in the Burmese court and had pledged their loyalties to the Konbaung monarch. When the British occupied Mandalay, U Aung Myat thus refused to surrender. A column of 400 men was hence sent in January 1887 to Tatlwin Pass captured both U Aung Myat and U Shwe Tha. After prolonged negotiation, U Aung Myat submitted but it was merely a façade. U Aung Myat’s men still resisted and by January 1891, skirmishes broke out formerly again. Havoc broke out in the towns of Kawlin and Kyaukpintha. By this time, U Shwe Tha had retreated to Mansi. However, the overwhelming force of the British forced both father and son to find refuge in Tsanta in Yunnan province. With that, the Wuntho uprising was finally suppressed.\n\nThe Tashons were a powerful and influential tribe among the Chins. Previously on 1 January 1887, the British had started to assert their control over Chin territory by deposing U Yit as Sawbwa of Kale and installing U Pa Gyi in his stead. They then ventured into Tashon country with the objective of negotiating a trade route to India through the China Hills as well as displaying their military dominance and prowess to U Tok San, U Tha Dun and the Shwegyobyu Prince, they launched an offensive against the British by raiding Indin on 4 May 1888. This was followed by incursions into the plain in which the towns Sihuang and Homalin were targeted. By this time, the Siyins, another Chin tribe, had joined in the resistance, with them attacking Chitpauk on 17 October and Kantha on 22 September. Other tribes like the Soktes and Kamhaus also took the opportunity to attack the Kabaw valley, destroying Khamput in their wake.\n\nFacing the growing threat from the chin tribes, a military expedition was launched into the Hills led by Brigadier-General Faunce, who established his headquarters at Kanpale on 3 December 1888 and assembled a force of 1,200. Meanwhile, attacks from the Tashons and Siyins continued unabated. The main British strategy however was to undermine China solidarity by driving a wedge into the Chins. They would only attack the Siyins and the Kamhaus, while the Tashons would be left alone. The very first objective was the occupation of Khuasak, the main Siyin village. They then continued their advanceon Khausak with a force of 517 rifles and two mountain guns. Fierce fighting ensued whereby many villages of the Siyins and Kamhaus were destroyed. Having done that, the British then turned their attention to the Tashons.\n\nWith peaceful negotiations breaking down between the Tashons and British, the British decided to take on the offensive. Another military expedition was planned for 1889–90, which was divided into two columns. The Northern Column was led by a Colonel Skene who positioned his forces at Fort White with 1,622 men. The Southern Column, consisting of 1,869 mean under Brigadier-General Symons, established themselves at Kan on 9 December 1889. These two columns would come to subdue the Tashons, Siyins, Hakha and Zokhuas. Fighting stretched all the way into 1891 when the Kamhaus finally submitted under superior British firepower. Sporadic outbreaks of resistance still occurred with the minority tribes with stubborn attacks by Siyin and other smaller tribes. The Siyins persisted to the last but was eventually subdued. Khup Pau, the Siyin chief and his son Khai Kam, finally surrendered on 16 May 1894. Still, the Chins were perceived to be the fiercest and strongest foe to the British advancement, having lasted for more than seven years.\n\nThe resistance movement was not a unified one. It was the outcome of the sudden and humiliating fall of the Konbaung dynasty to the British. Many of the resistance were small-scale affairs - scattered, disorganized and without an eventual goal in sight except to struggle against a foreign enemy that was seen to be encroaching upon their land, religion and king. There were also many who have defected over to the side of the British. After almost ten years since 1885, the resistance movement was subdued.\nThis was due primarily to four factors: 1) Better tactics of co-optation from the British; 2) More experienced and battle-hardened commanders were sent to reinforce the occupying British; 3) Superior weapons and war machinery of the British; 4) purported ruthlessness and show-trials by the British. There was an exception however: there were still periodic resistances from the Kachins which lasted until 1914-15.\n"}
{"id": "57008149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57008149", "title": "Cannabis policy of the Lyndon B. Johnson administration", "text": "Cannabis policy of the Lyndon B. Johnson administration\n\nDuring the administration of American President Lyndon B. Johnson (1963–1969), the government made moves to reconsider cannabis law enforcement in the nation, including a more treatment-based approach to drug use. However, Johnson was saddled with controversies regarding the Vietnam War and internal national tensions, and was not able to make major changes to cannabis policy before declining to run for a second term in 1968. During the Johnson administration, cannabis usage was an issue of concern both in the youth counterculture as well as among American troops serving in the Vietnam War.\n\nFederal Bureau of Narcotics chief Harry Anslinger, a strong opponent of cannabis since the 1930s, left office in 1963, setting the scene for potential evolution of the national cannabis policy.\n\nIn 1966, the Johnson administration passed the Narcotics Addict Rehabilitation Act, treating drug abuse as a medical issue similar to alcoholism. Johnson's 1967 President's Commission on Law Enforcement and Administration of Justice concluded that the Marihuana Tax Act of 1937 was ineffective, and over-broad in lumping cannabis use in with the more dangerous use of opiates. Johnson himself considered the possibility of easing cannabis regulations by removing the mandatory minimum sentencing for cannabis possession.\n\nThroughout Johnson's administration, cannabis use rose sharply, with arrests increasing from 18,815 in 1965 to 61,843 in 1967. In response to the increasing usage of cannabis and other drugs, in 1968 Johnson placed the Federal Bureau of Narcotics (Treasury) and the Bureau of Drug Abuse Control (Food and Drug Administration) under the control of the Department of Justice, consolidating them as the Bureau of Narcotics and Dangerous Drugs.\n"}
{"id": "47678733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47678733", "title": "Caux Palace Hotel", "text": "Caux Palace Hotel\n\nThe Caux Palace Hotel is a former palace hotel located in Caux, above Montreux in the Vaud canton, in Switzerland.\n\nBuilt on the Caux Mount by the Swiss architect Eugène Jost, it was inaugurated on 7 July 1902. The building rests on a 400-meter long terrace and is decorated with an abundance of towers and turrets with coloured tiles, which make it a remarkable feature of the Montreux landscape, visible from the whole Montreux Riviera region. It soon became an international venue first in the early 20th century as a luxury hotel, then from 1946 on as an international conference centre dedicated to the rebuilding of Europe under the leadership of the Swiss Initiatives of Change team. It is now also the seat of the Swiss Hotel Management School (SHMS) which uses the premises during the school semesters while Initiatives of Change keeps organising summer conferences there each year. The Caux-Palace Hotel is listed as a .\n\nUntil 1875, the area around Caux was only sparsely populated. The \"Caux mountains\" had always been used as a pasture for local farmers while the road to the Jaman pass was the shortest route towards the Sarine and Simmental valleys. In 1875 taking into account the rapid development of tourism on the lakeside where the first hotels had opened in 1837 in Montreux and in 1841 in Territet, Emile Monnier decided to transform his chalet on the Caux Mountain into an inn with a view to welcome the ramblers who started to explore the mountainside. This development had first affected the village of Glion, halfway between Montreux and Caux: a road to Glion was opened in 1850 and a cable-car service was opened between Territet and Glion in 1883.\n\nAbout the same time local entrepreneurs became aware of the potential of Caux, almost 1000 meters above Glion. Philippe Faucherre, born in 1844 and his wife Louise Vauthier, both from hotel management background, were among them. In 1890 Faucherre bought a stone career in the area and built the Caux Grand Hotel in three years, all the needed material being brought to the construction site by mules for lack of other means of transportation.\n\nThe railway from Glion to Caux and to the Rochers-de-Naye summit was built at the same time and inaugurated in 1892 after only 15 months of works, a technical tour-de-force realized under the famous railway engineer Laubi. The extension of this railway between Montreux and Glion would wait 27 more years. The road to Caux was also opened at the same time by public works contractor Pierre Botelli.\n\nThe immediate success of the Grand Hotel, which attracted many prominent people to Caux, led other entrepreneurs to conceive the Caux Palace Hotel.\n\nFive years after the Grand Hotel opening, Ami Chessex, who was the owner of the lakeside Territet Grand Hotel, decided to build a new hotel on a piece of land he owned at Caux, just under the Caux Grand Hotel – although the area was rather sloppy. Early in 1899 a joint venture company was founded by Chessex and Faucherre with a capital of 2.5 million Swiss Francs. At the start of 1900 this company issued 3 million worth of bonds (and issued 500,000 francs more in 1903).\n\nThe first round of works consisted of an additional floor on top of the Grand Hotel, which immediately increased its capacity by 80 beds. Then in 1900 the construction works of the Caux Palace started. The main requirement was to make it the most advanced, most luxurious and biggest hotel ever built in Switzerland. As imagined by chief architect Eugène Jost, the construction started by a 400-meter long supporting wall along the hotel’s site, allowing for the creation of a nice garden at the foot of the future hotel and for a promenade along this belvedere from which future Caux Palace Hotel customers would enjoy a unique sight on the grand landscape of Lake Geneva and of the Alps.\n\nAlfred Daulte, one of Jost’s deputies, was to lead the works on site. It was difficult job given that there were up to 800 workers on site and that the progress of the construction was under close personal scrutiny from Ami Chessex, who used to walk up from Territet twice a week and did not hesitate to issue orders contradicting Daulte’s. Nevertheless, the building and decoration works were completed in a little over two years, and on 7 July 1902, the Caux Palace Hotel was officially inaugurated in presence of the president of the Canton’s executive, Mr Cossy, and of the whole Vaud government. The books of the \"Société immobilière de Caux\" showed a total cost of construction of 2,555,949 Swiss francs.\n\nLike its predecessor, the Caux Grand Hotel, the Caux Palace Hotel was blessed with instant success. Visitors included celebrities such as Sacha Guitry, Paul Morand, Romain Rolland, Edgar Wallace, prince Ibn Saud, future king of Saudi Arabia, John D. Rockefeller and the maharajah of Baroda. The latter stayed frequently in Caux, using most of the fourth floor. His personal room at the south-west angle of the building enjoyed an outstanding view and was furbished in lemon-tree wood furniture, especially designed for the maharajah. This exceptional furniture and the initial decoration of this room have been preserved to this day.\n\nTwo to three weeks of waiting time were sometimes necessary before the privilege of staying at the Caux Palace Hotel could be granted to the customers. Several smaller hotels were therefore built in Caux in the wake of the opening of the Caux Palace Hotel, such as the “Pavillon des Fougères” (later “Hotel Alpina”) or the “Hotel Maria”. A school was opened in Caux in 1905, an Anglican chapel was built in 1906 and a Catholic one in 1907. Many private chalets were also built around the same years. Winter sport facilities included ski and sledge slopes, three ice rinks for skating and a bobsleigh track. The world bobsleigh federation and the world ice hockey federation were be created in Caux.\n\n1 August 1914 spelt the end of the golden years of luxury tourism in Switzerland. In a matter of a few days most of the customers had left the hotels, which would remain empty for the next five years. On 10 August, the few remaining Grand Hotel customers were transferred to the Caux Place Hotel and the Grand Hotel was then closed down. In 1917, Ami Chessex passed away after having struggled for three years to keep the company afloat. The cumulated loss at the end of the war would be of 1 million.\n\nIn 1919, war had at last stopped and everything could have returned to normal, but exchange rates were high for the Swiss Francs and the Caux hotels did not completely correspond with the new expectations of the customers. Therefore, in spite of a financial restructuration of the company in 1919, business remained disappointing. In 1925, the Grand Hotel was renovated and renamed Hotel Regina, in memory of Empress Sissi of Austria-Hungary who had resided there in 1898 just before being assassinated in Geneva.\n\nThe years 1927 and 1928 brought at last sizeable improvement for the Caux hotels. A second financial restructuration took place in 1929 in order to raise 1 million francs to renovate the Caux Palace Hotel. The bobsleigh world cup was organised in Caux in 1930. Unfortunately, the years 1930 to 1935 were most difficult as a result of the worldwide financial crisis. The value of the individual share of the \"Société immobilière de Caux\" had sunk from around 200 francs in 1900 to 1 francs in 1936. A fourth financial restructuration was insufficient to mend the situation and the board put the hotels up for sale as the losses piled up.\n\nIn 1938 the railway was converted from steam to electricity and the ski fashion reignited interest for Caux. The Caux Palace Hotel was renamed Hotel Esplanade and now targeted a less exclusive audience. However, in 1939 it had to stop all activities for good.\n\nAfter the Caux Palace Hotel, most other hotels also had to gradually close down. In 1941, Hotel Regina was declared bankrupt and sold twice in a row. The Caux Palace Hotel reopened in May 1944 as a detention centre for English and American Air Force pilots escaped from Italian prisoner's camps. Then from November 1944 to July 1945 they were replaced by Italian civilian refugees and from December 1944 by Jewish Hungarian refugees. This last group consisted of 1670 people coming from the Bergen-Belsen concentration camp where they had been briefly detained by the SS administration in spite of the payment of a handsome ransom for their freedom. This episode is known as the Kasztner train story, by the name of the main Jewish negotiator for this evacuation. Last minute negotiations on the background of an impending German defeat allowed the train to be finally redirected to Switzerland as initially planned and to save its passengers from an almost certain death. Orthodox Jews were put up at the Regina Hotel and all other in the former Caux Palace Hotel. An oak tree was planted on the Caux terrace in memory of this convoy and a plaque was inaugurated there in 1999. It reads: “In memory of the Jewish refugees accommodated here during WWII, and in memory of those who were driven back by the Swiss borders. We shall not forget them.”\n\nThese various visitors of Caux degraded the buildings a lot. Everything that could have a market value like door knobs, locks, taps, etc. was dismantled and sold. This completed the ruin of the creators of the Caux Palace Hotel. Apart from the ground and of the building’s shell, nothing was left of the 9 to 10 million Swiss Francs which had been invested there since 1890. It later turned out, however, that the caretaker of the Caux Palace Hotel, Robert Auberson, had been able to hide and store a lot of valuable pieces of furniture, as well as crockery and cutlery.\n\nIn 1946, the derelict Caux Palace Hotel as well as the former Grand Hotel and other smaller hotel buildings in Caux looked like near their end. The bankrupt \"Société Immobilière de Caux\" had fallen into the hands of its main banker, \"Banque populaire de Montreux\", who were looking for a quick way out and had put the whole lot on the market at a very low price. The most likely outcome was the demolition of the building in order to reuse its material.\n\nBut in an unexpected move, Geneva-born diplomat Philippe Mottu bid for the building with a small group of Swiss people. A graduate in theology and political science from Geneva university, Philippe Mottu had been associated with Frank Buchman and the Oxford Group since the mid-1930s and in 1943 he had had the recurring thought: \"If Switzerland is spared by war, our task will be to put at the disposal of Frank Buchman a place where Europeans, torn apart by hatred, suffering and resentment, will be able to meet each other. Caux is the place.\"\n\nThe bankers as well as the city of Montreux mayor understood full well the positives of having an international conference centre in the area of Montreux and offered a \"discount\" price of 1.050.000 Swiss francs, giving Moral Rearmament a priority over other bidders. The \"Caux Foundation\", which would administer the Caux Palace Hotel in the coming decades, being not yet in place, the sale contract was signed on 25 May 1946 by Philippe Mottu and Robert Hahnloser in their own name. It would take 95 individual Swiss donors to be able to reach the 450,000 Francs amount requested as first down payment on 1 July 1946. In-kind donations such as furniture, carpets also converged from all over Switzerland to help refurbish the former palace.\n\nDuring six weeks, a team of international volunteers toiled day and night under the guidance of Swiss engineer Robert Hahnloser and his deputy, Dutch architect Jap de Boer, in order to repair the inside of the house. On 9 July 1946 the first meal cooked in the just enabled new kitchen was served to 150 guests. During that 1946 summer, 3000 people visited the new Caux conference centre. Dormitories were installed and some of the participants had to be allocated in nearby hotels. In 1946 and 1947 a series of needed transformations were performed in order to adapt the building to its new destiny: conversation of the ball room into a theater, new, larger entrance hall, etc. Lacking the adequate number of beds, the \"Caux Foundation\" bought the Grand Hotel and the Maria Hotel in 1947 and the Alpina Hotel in 1949, plus various smaller buildings.\n\nIn the course of the next 50 years, the Caux Palace Hotel did not undergo any other significant modifications. Its history is marked by a long string of meetings organised by MRA, which in certain cases had political repercussions.\n\nThe Caux-Palace Hotel building surprises the observer both by its size and by its eclectic style.\n\nThe building’s style is often considered as neo-medieval and has earned the Caux Palace Hotel the nickname of \"Sleeping Beauty Castle\", whereas\n\nStudying the façades of all hotels built by Eugène Jost, Professor Dave Lüthi from the University of Lausanne observed that, in order to avoid the hotel to look like barracks as could result from long rows of aligned hotel rooms windows, Jost contrived to counterbalance the horizontal deployment of the façades by an almost brutal articulation of vertical volumes and by the use of a few ornate bays which create a dynamic in the various sections of the façades (accentuation of dormers and roofs, contrasting with angles left free of any decoration).\n\nIn the case of the Caux Palace Hotel, which can probably be regarded as Jost’s masterpiece, the South façade, which contains 271 windows, is ingeniously split in five parts and patterned by numerous protruding elements such as balconies, bow windows or a corbeling gallery on the last floor. In contrast to this part of the building, the common areas rooms is equipped with very large bay windows which somewhat blur the visitor’s perception of the building from the gardens: these brutal scale changes are typical of eclectic architecture; they indicate the function of each part of the building and by bringing them together, oppose them, so as to warn the visitor about his own subjectivity: big or small are relative values.\n\nSeen close by, the Caux Palace Hotel is an imposing sight because of its monumental size (which may be its main similarity with its so-called medieval models), yet it nevers \"crushes\" the observer; seen from afar only its cornice, roof and turrets can be seen: the Caux Palace Hotel, like a diadem set on top of the Caux Mount, becomes the giant advertisement for the site. The Caux Palace Hotel is therefore quite representative of the new trend launched by Eugène Jost:\n\nIn the case of the Caux Palace Hotel as in his other hotel projects, Eugène Jost foremost concentrated on the general layout and on the façades. He unfolded his monumental buildings beyond the point where dimension became detrimental to usage.\n\nThe Caux Foundation made several renovations in the course of the years, the most spectacular being in the course of the 1980s the complete renovation of the roofs; appropriate coloured glazed tiles could only be found in the region of Dijon (France) and they were bought with the financial assistance of the French Initiatives of Change association. The dining room had been redone in 1959 and a fresco by Finnish painter Lennart Segerstråle was then added.\n\nThe arrival of the Swiss Hotel Management School (SHMS) in 1995 as a tenant outside the conference season has allowed the Caux Foundation to do more to maintain and improve the ageing building and its surroundings. In some cases it was a matter of compliance with more demanding new regulations: there was a revamping of the kitchen in line with the most advanced professional norms, the installation of required fire detector systems and fireproof doors at strategic locations, the installation of separate collection and evacuation systems for wastewater and rainwater, etc. Another key work is the gradual renovation of over 200 bathrooms which had more or less remained early 20th century bathrooms. In other instances, there was a need to adapt to the requirements of the teaching activity of SHMS: creation of classrooms and of a new amphitheater, addition of an internet café. Some structures, such as the ground floor pergola, also received needed renovations.\n\nHowever, from the cultural heritage viewpoint, the most interesting piece of work was the renovation of the great hall and of some historic rooms in 2007 and 2008 with support from Foundation Pro Patria, Loterie Romande and JP Morgan Chase. The challenge was to clean up and to restore the wall and ceiling frescoes of the great hall which had been created by Bernese painter in 1902. The ceiling was particularly important as one of the largest ever painted in Switzerland and as the only one still in its original state. It is also unique by its decoration in Swiss Art deco style and by its cupola shape. The restoration works of the frescoes allowed reducing the visual impact of the various alterations they endured in time, to keep in place as much as possible the initial decorations’ substance and to bring to light two additional frescoes adorning the great Hall’s decorative fireplace mantels.\n\nThese renovation works were led by specialists Olivier Guyot et Julian James and supervised by the “Monuments and Sites” section of the Vaud state, as well as by Swiss architect Eric Jaeger for the Caux Foundation.\n\nAt the end of 2015, the CAUX-Initiatives of Change Foundation had the heating system replaced, moving from oil to (local) wood heating. Fossil fuel's CO2 emissions were lowered by 590 tons per year as a result. The fuel oil boilers and tanks had been installed in the early 1960s to replace the original 1902 six coal firing boilers.\n\nThis page is translated from the French Wikipedia page. Main sources are:\n"}
{"id": "934143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=934143", "title": "Court Jew", "text": "Court Jew\n\nIn the early modern period, a court Jew, or court factor (), was a Jewish banker who handled the finances of, or lent money to, European royalty and nobility. In return for their services, court Jews gained social privileges, including in some cases being granted noble status. Court Jews were needed because prohibitions against usury applied to Christians but did not apply to Jews.\n\nExamples of what would be later called court Jews emerged in the High Middle Ages when the royalty, the nobility, and the church borrowed money from money changers or employed them as financiers. Among the most notable of these were Aaron of Lincoln and Vivelin of Strasbourg. Jewish financiers could use their family connections to provide their sponsors with finance, food, arms, ammunition, gold, and precious metals.\n\nThe rise of the absolute monarchies in Central Europe brought many Jews, mostly of Ashkenazi origin, into the position of negotiating loans for the various courts. They could amass personal fortunes and gain political and social influence. However, the court Jew had social connections and influence in the Christian world mainly through the Christian nobility and church. Due to the precarious position of Jews, some nobles could ignore their debts. If the sponsoring noble died, his Jewish financier could face exile or execution. The most famous example of this occurred in Württemberg when, after the death of his sponsor Charles Alexander in 1737, Joseph Süß Oppenheimer was put on trial and finally executed. In an effort to avoid such fate, some court bankers in the late 18th century—such as Samuel Bleichröder, Mayer Amschel Rothschild, or Aron Elias Seligmann—successfully detached their businesses from these courts and established what eventually developed into full-fledged banks.\n\nProhibited from nearly every other trade, some Jews began to occupy an economic niche as moneylenders in the Middle Ages. Only they were allowed to take interest on loans, since—while the Church condemned usury universally—canon law was only applied to Christians and not to Jews. Eventually, a sizable sector of the European Jewish community were engaged in financial occupations, and the community was a financially highly successful part of the medieval economy. The religious restrictions on moneylending had inadvertently created a source of monopoly rents, causing profits associated with moneylending to be higher than they otherwise would have been. By most parameters, the standard of living of the Jewish community in Early Medieval period was at least equal to that of the lower nobility. However, despite this economic prosperity, the community was not safe: religious hostility increased to the extent that it manifested itself in the form of massacres and expulsions, culminating in the repetitive expulsion of all Jews from various parts of Western Europe in the late medieval period.\n\nAlthough the phenomenon of \"Court Jewry\" did not occur until the early 17th century, examples of what would be later called court Jews can be found earlier in Jewish moneylenders who accumulated enough capital to finance the royalty and the nobility. Among them was Josce of Gloucester, the Jewish financier who funded Richard de Clare, 2nd Earl of Pembroke's conquest of Ireland in 1170, and Aaron of Lincoln, presumably the wealthiest individual in 12th-century Britain, who left an estate of about £100,000. Also notable was Vivelin of Strasbourg, one of the wealthiest persons in Europe in the early 14th century, who lent 340,000 florins to Edward III of England on the eve of the Hundred Years' War, in 1339. By the 16th century, Jewish financiers became increasingly connected to rulers and courts. Josef Goldschmidt (d. 1572) of Frankfurt, also known as \"Jud Joseph zum Goldenen Schwan\", became the most important Jewish businessman of his era, trading not only with the Fuggers and Imhoffs, but also with the nobility and the Church. In the early 17th century the Habsburgs employed the services of Jacob Bassevi of Prague, Joseph Pincherle of Gorizia, and Moses and Jacob Marburger of Gradisca.\n\nAt the dawn of Mercantilism, while most Sephardi Jews were primarily active in the west in maritime and colonial trade, the Ashkenazi Jews in the service of the emperor and princes tended toward domestic trade. Not always on account of their learning or their force of character did these Jews rise to positions close to the rulers: they were mostly wealthy businessmen, distinguished above their co-religionists by their commercial instincts and their adaptability. Court Jews frequently suffered through the denunciation of their envious rivals and co-religionists, and were often the objects of hatred of the people and the courtiers. They were of service to their fellow Jews only during the periods, often short, of their influence with the rulers; and as they themselves often came to a tragic end, their co-religionists were in consequence of their fall all the more harassed.\n\nThe court Jews, as the agents of the rulers, and in times of war as the purveyors and the treasurers of the state, enjoyed special privileges. They were under the jurisdiction of the court marshal, and were not compelled to wear the Jews' badge. They were permitted to stay wherever the emperor held his court, and to live anywhere in the Holy Roman Empire, even in places where no other Jews were allowed. Wherever they settled they could buy houses, slaughter meat according to the Jewish ritual, and maintain a rabbi. They could sell their goods wholesale and retail, and could not be taxed or assessed higher than the Christians.\n\nJews were sometimes assigned the role of local tax collectors. These roles built up a long-standing enmity between Jews and Christians, the results of which had far-reaching consequences in the history of European Jews.\n\nThe Holy Roman Emperors from the House of Habsburg kept a considerable number of court Jews. Among those of Emperor Ferdinand II are mentioned the following: Solomon and Ber Mayer, who furnished for the wedding of the emperor and Eleonora of Mantua the cloth for four squadrons of cavalry; Joseph Pincherle of Görz; Moses and Joseph Marburger (Morpurgo) of Gradisca; Ventura Pariente of Trieste; the physician Elijah Chalfon of Vienna; Samuel zum Drachen, Samuel zum Straussen, and Samuel zum Weissen Drachen of Frankfurt am Main; and Mordecai Meisel, of Prague. A specially favored court Jew was Jacob Bassevi, the first Jew to be ennobled, with the title \"\"von Treuenberg\".\n\nImportant as court Jews were also Samuel Oppenheimer, who went from Heidelberg to Vienna, and Samson Wertheimer (Wertheimher) from Worms. Oppenheimer, who was appointed chief court factor, together with his two sons Emanuel and Wolf, and Wertheimer, who was at first associated with him, devoted their time and talents to the service of Austria and the House of Habsburg: during the Rhenish, French, Turkish, and Spanish wars they loaned millions of florins for provisions, munitions, etc. Wertheimer, who, by title at least, was also chief court factor to the electors of Mainz, the Electorate of the Palatinate, and Treves, received from the emperor a chain of honor with his miniature.\n\nSamson Wertheimer was succeeded as court factor by his son Wolf. Contemporaneous with him was Leffmann Behrends, of Hanover, court factor and agent of the elector Ernest Augustus and of the duke Rudolf August of Brunswick. He also had relationships with several other rulers and high dignitaries. Behrends' two sons, Mordecai Gumpel and Isaac, received the same titles as he, chief court factors and agents. Isaac Cohen's father-in-law, Behrend Lehman, called also \"Bärmann Halberstadt\", was a court factor of Saxony, with the title of \"Resident\"\"; and his son Lehman Behrend was called to Dresden as court factor by King Augustus the Strong. Moses Bonaventura of Prague was also court Jew of Saxony in 1679.\n\nThe Models were court Jews of the margraves of Ansbach about the middle of the seventeenth century. Especially influential was Marx Model, who had the largest business in the whole principality and extensively supplied the court and the army. He fell into disgrace through the intrigues of the court Jew Elkan Fränkel, member of a family that had been driven from Vienna. Fränkel, a circumspect, energetic, and proud man, possessed the confidence of the margrave to such a degree that his advice was sought in the most important affairs of the state. Denounced by a certain Isaiah Fränkel, however, who desired to be baptized, an accusation was brought against Elkan Fränkel; and the latter was pilloried, scourged, and sent to the Würzburg for life imprisonment on November 2, 1712. He died there in 1720.\n\nDavid Rost, Gabriel Fränkel, and, in 1730, Isaac Nathan (Ischerlein) were court Jews together with Elkan Fränkel; Ischerlein, through the intrigues of the Fränkels, suffered the same fate as Elkan Fränkel. Nevertheless, Nathan's son-in-law, Dessauer, became court Jew. Other court Jews of the princes of Ansbach were Michael Simon and Löw Israel (1743), Meyer Berlin, and Amson Solomon Seligmann (1763).\n\nThe Great Elector, Frederick William, also kept a court Jew at Berlin, Israel Aaron (1670), who by his influence tried to prevent the influx of foreign Jews into the Prussian capital. Other court Jews of the elector were Gumpertz (died 1672), Berend Wulff (1675), and Solomon Fränkel (1678). More influential than any of these was Jost Liebmann. Through his marriage with the widow of the above-named Israel Aaron, he succeeded to the latter's position, and was highly esteemed by the elector. He had continual quarrels with the court Jew of the crown prince, Markus Magnus. After his death, his influential position fell to his widow, the well-known Liebmannin, who was so well received by Frederick III (from 1701 King Frederick I of Prussia) that she could go unannounced into his cabinet.\n\nThere were court Jews at all the petty German courts; e.g., Zacharias Seligmann (1694) in the service of the Prince of Hesse-Homburg, and others in the service of the dukes of Mecklenburg. Others mentioned toward the end of the seventeenth century are: Bendix and Ruben Goldschmidt of Homburg; Michael Hinrichsen of Glückstadt, who soon associated himself with Moses Israel Fürst, and whose son, Reuben Hinrichsen, in 1750 had a fixed salary as court agent. About this time the court agent Wolf lived at the court of Frederick III of Mecklenburg-Strelitz. Disputes with the court Jews often led to protracted lawsuits.\n\nThe last actual court Jews were Israel Jacobson, court agent of Brunswick, and Wolf Breidenbach, factor to the Elector of Hesse, both of whom occupy honorable positions in the history of the Jews.\n\nIn rough chronological order:\n\nIn fiction, Isaac the Jew in Walter Scott's \"Ivanhoe\" serves this purpose to Prince John and other nobles.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3319888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3319888", "title": "Cunningham v Homma", "text": "Cunningham v Homma\n\nCunningham v Homma, is a decision of the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council that upheld a British Columbia law that prohibited Japanese Canadians and Chinese Canadians from voting.\n\nThe case originated with an attempt by Tomekichi Homma, a Japanese immigrant and naturalized Canadian, to register to vote in 1900. The registrar of voters, Thomas Cunningham, rejected Homma's application. Homma took the British Columbia government to court over the issue.\n\nHomma was successful at the County Court and the Supreme Court of British Columbia However, the case ultimately made its way to the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council, which at that time was the highest court in the Canadian legal system. In \"Cunningham v Homma\", the Privy Council ruled against Homma. The court determined that while the federal government had exclusive jurisdiction over the naturalization of citizens, the provinces had the right to legislate who could vote in provincial and municipal elections. There was no inherent right to vote for naturalized citizens. Provinces and their municipalities could determine who could vote, which meant they could bar any naturalized ethic group they chose. Parks Canada has designated this case as being of National Historical Significance.\n\nAsian Canadians would not garner the right to vote until 1949, four years after Homma died. In recognition of his contribution to the democratic system, in December 2017 the Government of Canada, through Parks Canada, dedicated a plaque in his honour at the Nikkei National Museum and Cultural Centre in Burnaby.\n\n"}
{"id": "546356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=546356", "title": "Danilo Türk", "text": "Danilo Türk\n\nDanilo Türk (; born 19 February 1952) is a Slovenian diplomat, professor of international law, human rights expert, and political figure who served as President of Slovenia from 2007 to 2012. Türk was the first Slovene ambassador to the United Nations, from 1992 to 2000, and was the UN Assistant Secretary General for Political Affairs from 2000 to 2005.\n\nHe is a visiting professor of international law at Columbia University in New York City, a professor emeritus at the Faculty of Law of the University of Ljubljana, and non-resident senior fellow of Chongyang Institute for Financial studies at Renmin University of China in Beijing. Türk is the founder of the Danilo Türk Foundation, devoted mostly to the rehabilitation of child victims of armed conflict. He is also the chairman of the Global High Level Panel on Water and Peace and the chairman of the board of the Global Fairness Initiative, a Washington-based NGO dedicated to economic and social development in developing nations.\n\nIn 2016, Türk was an unsuccessful candidate for the post of Secretary-General of the United Nations.\n\nTürk was born in a lower-middle-class family in Maribor, Slovenia (then part of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia). He attended Maribor Grammar School No. 2 (\"II. gimnazija Maribor\"). In 1971 he enrolled at the University of Ljubljana, where he studied law. After graduation (1975) he served as the secretary of the commission for minority and expatriate affairs at the Socialist Alliance of Working People (SZDL), an organisation sponsored by Yugoslav Communist Party. In December 1979 he became the chairman of that commission and a member of the executive committee of the SZDL. At the same time he continued his studies. He obtained an MA with a thesis on minority rights from the University of Belgrade's Law School. In 1978, he became a teaching assistant at the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana. In 1982, he obtained his PhD with a dissertation on the principle of non-intervention in international law at the University in Ljubljana and received a full-time job as an assistant professor at the University in Ljubljana's Faculty of Law. In 1983, he became the director of the University of Ljubljana's Institute for International Law. In the following years, he worked on human and minority rights. In the mid-1980s, he collaborated with Amnesty International to report on human rights issues in Yugoslavia.\n\nBetween 1986 and 1992, he served in a personal capacity as a member the UN Sub-Commission on Prevention of Discrimination and Protection of Minorities and was the UN Special Rapporteur on the Realization of Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. Together with Louis Joinet (France), he was also the UN Special Rapporteur on Freedom of Expression. In 1987 he initiated the establishment of the Council for Human Rights in Slovenia and served until 1992 as the council’s vice-chairman. In 1990/91 he coauthored the human rights chapter in Slovenia's constitution.\n\nFrom 1992 to 2000, Türk was the first Slovene Permanent Representative to the United Nations. During this time, he secured the election of Slovenia to the UN Security Council (1998–1999) and was president of the United Nations Security Council in August 1998 and November 1999. Between 1996 and 1998, he was a member of the UN Human Rights Committee. From 2000 to 2005, he served as UN Assistant Secretary-General for Political Affairs under Secretary General Kofi Annan. In 2005 he returned to Slovenia and became a professor of international law; from May 2006 to December 2007 he served as the vice dean of student affairs at the University of Ljubljana's Faculty of Law. Türk has published over 100 articles in various law journals and three books. He authored the first Slovene book on international law, titled \"Temelji mednarodnega prava\" (Foundations of International Law, 2007, revised 2015).\n\nIn June 2007, Türk ran in the Slovene presidential election. As an \"independent\" candidate, he was backed by a broad coalition of left-wing parties, composed of the opposition Zares party and Social Democrats, the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, and the extra-parliamentary Christian Socialist Party and Democratic Party. In the first round of the presidential elections, held on 21 October 2007, he placed second with 24.54% of the votes, which brought him into the runoff against the centre right candidate Lojze Peterle (who received 28.50% of the popular vote). He won the runoff on 11 November 2007 with 68.2% of the votes, becoming the third president of Slovenia on December 23, 2007. Türk ran for reelection in 2012, but lost the election to Borut Pahor in a second round of voting, held on 2 December 2012. He received roughly one-third of the votes.\n\nIn March 2011, Danilo Türk successfully underwent robot-assisted prostate cancer surgery at the Urology Institute in Innsbruck, Austria.\n\nIn December 2013 Türk announced that he was planning to run for UN Secretary-General. He was soon supported by Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek and Minister of Foreign Affairs Karel Erjavec. In January 2014 the Slovene government endorsed Türk as its candidate for UN Secretary-General. He was later also supported by Prime Minister Miro Cerar and President Borut Pahor, as well as by Speaker of the National Assembly of Slovenia Milan Brglez (also a professor at the University of Ljubljana). In accordance with the UN procedure, the government of Slovenia nominated Danilo Türk as candidate for UN Secretary-General on 8 February 2016.\n\nTürk is an experienced member of the United Nations community. He served as the first Permanent Representative of the Republic of Slovenia to the UN and remained in New York as ambassador for eight years, from 1992 until 2000. As Slovenian representative he also presided over the United Nations Security Council twice. His work was recognised by Secretary-General Kofi Annan, who chose Türk as one of his close advisors and appointed him Assistant Secretary-General in 2000. He served in this position until 2005, when he returned to Slovenia to teach international law at the University of Ljubljana.\n\nTürk has long been recognised as an expert and global advocate for human rights and his work has been connected with human rights and the fight for equality for more than 40 years.\n\nOne element of human rights that Turk has been questioned about is the UN's role in the Haiti cholera outbreak that has been widely discussed and criticized. There has been indisputable evidence that the UN is the proximate cause for bringing cholera to Haiti. Peacekeepers sent to Haiti from Nepal were carrying asymptomatic cholera and they did not treat their waste properly before dumping it into Haiti's water stream. In an interview with the New York Times, Türk was asked if cholera victims should receive compensation. He responded by saying he hopes the UN would \"provide the victims with a fair process and an effective remedy.\" St. Vincent followed this up during the UN informal dialogues by asking Mr. Türk how he would place the pursuit of an effective remedy on his list of priorities. Türk's response was that though the UN enjoys immunity from prosecution, \"there are other ways of establishing fair process and effectiveness\". He also stated \"current discussions that I know exist within the Secretariat and between the Secretariat and member states will produce such effectiveness and fairness.\" Following-up at the media stakeout, Inner City Press questioned Türk about his statement that there may be some process going on behind the scenes to pay compensation. Türk responded by saying that there have been informal conversations about the Haitian situation, and though he does not have full knowledge, he can say that \"this story is not closed.\" He admits that he values the importance of legal regulation including UN immunity, but he also believes in remedies and fair processes.\n\n37 human rights organizations recently signed onto a UN Secretary General accountability pledge. This pledge asks the candidates to take action on two human rights violations that have tarnished the United Nations' image: failing to provide remedies for victims of cholera in Haiti, and sexual exploitation and abuse by peacekeepers. Türk issued a statement responding to Aids Free World and the Institute for Justice & Democracy in Haiti, expressing his support for the organizations' efforts. While he acknowledges that he has \"clearly expressed [his] commitment to fairness towards the victims of cholera in Haiti and for substantial, credible and speedy investigations of the cases of sexual abuse committed by peacekeepers\", he cannot undertake formal pledges. Nevertheless, he reaffirms his commitment to better UN accountability and says \"it is abundantly clear where my heart is.\"\n\n\nDanilo Türk has been married to Barbara Türk (née Miklič) since 1976. They have one daughter and one granddaughter. He is the brother of the manager Vitoslav Türk, member of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Türk speaks Slovene, English, French, and Serbo-Croatian.\n\n"}
{"id": "37129236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37129236", "title": "David Lloyd Jones (architect)", "text": "David Lloyd Jones (architect)\n\nDavid Lloyd Jones AA DIP, RIBA, FRSA is a founding partner of Studio E LLP, an architectural practice established in London in 1994. He has been described as \"a godfather of the sustainable architecture movement in the UK\". Lloyd Jones has been heavily involved in both promoting 'green' design and demonstrating it in practice. He has been responsible for a series of seminal bioclimatic buildings, including the National Farmers Union and Avon Insurance Head Office at Stratford upon Avon; the Solar Office Doxford International near Sunderland; Beaufort Court Zero Emissions Building at Kings Langley; Grange Park Opera House and the current Pakistan Islamic Arts Institute in Lahore. His book, \"Architecture and the Environment,\" was published in 1998.\n\nDavid Lloyd Jones was born on 10 May 1942 to Hester née Ritchie and Richard Lloyd Jones at Busbridge England in the rented gardener's cottage of Munstead Wood, the former home of Gertrude Jekyll designed by her protégé, Sir Edwin Lutyens. Shortly thereafter, at the end of World War 2, the family moved to nearby Catteshall Rough, his maternal grandmother's house, and then two years later to Springwood, a much extended Tudor farmhouse on the outskirts of the Surrey town of Godalming. The family lived here throughout his early boyhood moving back up the hill to Munstead in 1960. At the age of eight Lloyd Jones attended Edgeborough School as a border and then went on to Bradfield College in Berkshire. He left there in 1960 having gained a place at the Architectural Association School of Architecture in Bloomsbury, London.\n\nLloyd Jones studied architecture for five years at the AA, taking a year out in 1965 during which he worked for Stillman & Eastwick-Field Partnership, and secured a travel scholarship allowing him to spend six months visiting architectural practices in the USA to obtain material for inclusion in the \"Architects' Journal\". Tutors and teachers at the AA included Michael (John) Lloyd, John Winter, Patrick de Saulles, Cedric Price, Paul Oliver, Sir Peter Cook, Leon Krier, Charles Jencks, Robert Maxwell, Alan Colquhoun, and Alvin Boyarski. In 1966 David Lloyd Jones was awarded a Diploma in Architecture and took time off to travel through France and Italy on his Lambretta, subsidising his limited funds by working as a film extra.\n\nThe same year he joined the National Building Agency in London, a multi-disciplinary organisation established by the Wilson Government as a Semi-State body in 1960, under the directorship of Cleeve Barr, to provide services to both public and private sector clients and undertake specific tasks in support of radical new policies of Government in housing, urban renewal, and other construction related activities. Lloyd Jones worked on teams developing new concepts of government funded housing, including, high density, low rise housing schemes in the new towns of Crawley and Harlow, and published guides and handbooks covering housing design based on the newly introduced metric system of measurement.\n\nWhile working at the NBA he was co-opted onto the London Borough of Camden Council's Arts Committee where, as member of the Festival Sub-Committee, he was charged with organising rock concerts in the Borough. To do so he teamed up with Michael Alfandary and Harvey Goldsmith to produce the first free open-air concert-on Parliament Hill, London-and in the Roundhouse (a converted steam engine maintenance building). Sets included It's a Beautiful Day, Carlos Santana, Pink Floyd, Yes, The Pretty Things, Soft Machine, Procol Harum, Roy Harper, and Fleetwood Mac. While serving on the Arts Committee David Lloyd Jones was asked to expend Camden's annual sum allocated to building up their public art collection. In doing so he bought from Derek Jarman, David Hockney, John Lifton and other up and coming artists. He was also, through support from the Borough, instrumental in setting up and fostering The Institute for Research in Art and Technology (London New Arts Lab), a newly conceived and popular forum for disseminating a spectrum of arts under a single roof. At the same time David Lloyd Jones had taken on the position of Honorary Treasurer to PEST (Pressure for Economic and Social Toryism), now incorporated into the Tory Reform Group, formed to put pressure on the Alec Douglas-Home government to introduce more relevant, egalitarian government policies. Colleagues in the pressure group included Michael Spicer, Baron Spicer of Cropthorne, Jeremy Baker and Sir Simon Jenkins.\n\nDavid Lloyd Jones and Linda Stewart married in 1971. Linda Lloyd Jones' career has been in arts administration. She has been Head of Exhibitions and Loans at the Victoria and Albert Museum since 1988. She previously worked for Penguin Books, the London Festival Ballet (now English National Ballet) and the ICA (Institute of Contemporary Arts).\n\nLloyd Jones moved to the multi-disciplinary RMJM (Robert Matthew Johnson Marshall and Partners) in 1972 to take up the position of project architect for the Reading Cultural Centre. Other projects on which he took key roles were: project architect for the development of facilities outside Mecca, Saudi Arabia for pilgrims attending the annual Hajj; deputy director of the Nigerian Universities Commission university development programme involving the setting of space and design standards, and funding mechanisms for seven new and existing university campuses located throughout Nigeria and carried out by seven international consortia; and project architect for the Royal Mint site development; and the introduction of barristers chambers into The Walks at Gray's Inn, London. In 1978 he led the design team for a new headquarters for NFU Mutual at Stratford-upon-Avon. The RMJM team included building physicist, Dr William Bordass, and architect, Walter Nageli. This building was acclaimed for its architecture with Colin Amery describing it as a \"modern masterpiece\" in the \"Financial Times\" and for being one of the first UK buildings to adopt a rigorous approach to environmental sustainability. It broke with the then current deep plan, air conditioned office template and became a touchstone for future commercial development, featuring in government sponsored guides for improved environmental performance. His designs for public exhibitions included \"50 Penguin Years\" at the Royal Festival Hall for Penguin Books; and \"HRH Prince of Wales' (Charles, Prince of Wales) Vision of Britain\" at the Victoria and Albert Museum. In 1986 Lloyd Jones became a director of RMJM London and chairman of the Design Group.\n\nIn 1991 David Lloyd Jones left RMJM to set up his own practice, David Lloyd Jones Associates, develop his work as a researcher and practitioner in the field of sustainable architecture and to travel; and, in 1994, he founded, with Cezary Bednarski and Andrzej Kuszell, Studio E Architects, now Studio E LLP, where he is currently a partner with Andrzej Kuszell and Garry Stewart.\n\nStudio E is involved in building and urban projects as well as research and development and assisting in formulating government policy and regulations for sustainable building practice and construction. David Lloyd Jones has been responsible for a succession of building projects including: The Solar Office, Doxford International Business Park (1998); The Treasures of St. Cuthbert, Durham Cathedral (1998); BBC 21st Century Classroom (2002); Beaufort Court Zero Emissions Head Office for Renewable Energy Systems, Kings Langley (2003); Grange Park Opera House, The Grange, Northington (2003); Theatre, Sports Hall and Science Laboratories for Townley Grammar School for Girls, Bexley Heath (2005); Burgess Park Community Sports Centre (2006); City of London Freemen's School masterplan (2011); Highgrove Swimming Pool and Leisure Centre, Hillingdon (2012), and Heston Leisure Centre (2014). R&D projects have been carried out for International, European, National and commercial organisations and include: IEA PVPS Task 7: Photovoltaic Power in the Built Environment; EU Framework 5: RES Integrated Renewable Energy Systems Development Programme; EU REFRAME High Insulation Windows Programme; and Orange at Home for Orange (telecommunications) Plc, and the Classroom of the Future at St Frances of Assisi Primary School for the Department for Education and Skills.\n\nDavid Lloyd Jones was a Royal Institute of British Architects London Region Councillor from 1991 to 2004; a member of the Cabe (Commission for Architecture and the Built Environment) Schools Panel from 2007 to 2011 and is currently a member of the RIBA Sustainable Futures Group and a Trustee of the Pakistan Islamic Arts Institute. He is a Fellow of the Royal Society for the encouragement of Arts, Manufactures & Commerce (RSA). He has lectured at many architectural schools and has presented papers at innumerable conferences around the world, most recently at the British Council in Delhi, at the Sustainable Architectural Forum in San Jose, Costa Rica, at the UKTI Department of Trade and Industry (United Kingdom) sponsored Green Building Mission in New York City and at the Jerusalem Seminar in Architecture Series: Green Design from Theory to Practice.\n\nStudio E has won over 70 major awards, including:\n\nDavid Lloyd Jones has authored and contributed to many publications.\n\n\nStudio E Authorship\n\n\nStudio E Contributing Authorship or Project Contribution\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34554506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34554506", "title": "Edict of Versailles", "text": "Edict of Versailles\n\nThe Edict of Versailles, commonly known as the Edict of Tolerance, was an official act that gave non-Catholics in France the right to openly practice their religions as well as legal and civil status, which included the right to contract marriages without having to convert to the Catholic faith. The edict was signed by Louis XVI on 7 November 1787, and registered in the Parlement of Paris of the Ancien Régime on 29 January 1788. Its successful enactment was due to persuasive arguments by prominent French philosophers and literary personalities of the day, including Anne-Robert-Jacques Turgot, the Duc de Choiseul, by Americans such as Benjamin Franklin, and especially by the joint work of Guillaume-Chrétien de Lamoignon de Malesherbes, minister to Louis XVI, and Jean-Paul Rabaut Saint-Étienne, spokesman for the Protestant community in France.\n\nHenry IV of France (1589–1610) had initially granted Huguenots a significant amount of freedom to practice their faith when he signed the Edict of Nantes (13 April 1598). These rights were revoked by Louis XIV with the Edict of Fontainebleau (18 October 1685). Enforcement of the revocation relaxed under the reign of Louis XV, but it remained law for a century. Under the Edict of Versailles, Roman Catholicism continued as the state religion of the Kingdom of France, but relief was offered to non-Catholic worshippers – Calvinist Huguenots, Lutherans, and Jews alike. Considering the long-standing dominance of this religion, restrictions were still placed on non-Catholics around the country, keeping the outliers of the time behind the scenes at the workplace and in educational settings, so as not to misrepresent the Kingdom. The most notable example of these restrictions was in Metz, where actions by the Parlement of Metz explicitly excluded certain rights for Jews within its domain, such as drafting of lists of grievances, that did not apply to coreligionists elsewhere. \n\nWhile the Edict of Versailles did not proclaim freedom of religion across France, which would occur with the Declaration of the Rights of Man and Citizen of 1789, it was an important step in pacifying religious tensions and officially ended religious persecution in France.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9793832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9793832", "title": "Edward Mazria", "text": "Edward Mazria\n\nEdward Mazria is an American architect, author and educator. He is a graduate of Lafayette High School, played basketball in high school and in college at Pratt Institute in Brooklyn, New York, and was drafted by the New York Knickerbockers in 1962. After receiving his Bachelor of Architecture Degree from the Pratt Institute in 1963 he spent two years as an architect in the Peace Corps in Arequipa, Perú. He later worked with the firm of Edward Larrabee Barnes in New York before completing his master's degree and beginning a teaching and research career at the University of New Mexico in 1973.\n\nHis architecture and renewable energy research at both UNM and the University of Oregon established his leadership in the field of resource conservation and passive heating, cooling and daylighting design. His design methodology, developed at that time and presented in The Passive Solar Energy Book, is currently in use worldwide.\n\nSince forming the architecture and planning firm Mazria Associates, Inc. in 1978, he has completed award winning architecture and planning projects from the day-lit Mt. Airy Public Library in North Carolina to the Rio Grande Botanic Garden Conservatory in New Mexico.\n\nMr. Mazria closed his architecture practice in 2006 and is currently the Founder and CEO of Architecture 2030, a think tank developing real-world solutions for 21st century problems including the AIA+2030 Professional Education Series, 2030 Palette, China Accord, and the 2030 Districts movement in North American cities. He developed the “Roadmap to Zero Emissions” and is currently working with cities across the U.S. to develop pathways for “zero” to “80%” greenhouse gas emissions reductions by 2050.\n\nHis published material includes technical papers, articles for professional magazines, and a number of published works including the following:\n\nHis building designs have been published in Architecture, Progressive Architecture, Metropolis, Architectural Record, Landscape Architecture, Architectural Digest, Process, Kenchiku Bunka, Public Garden, Solar Today, ArchitectureWeek, Texas Architect, The Wall Street Journal and the New York Times.\n\nMost recently Mazria has reshaped the national and international dialogue on global warming to incorporate building design and the “Building Sector”. His research includes U.S. and global building sector analysis and greenhouse gas mitigation strategies.\n\nHe is the architect of both the AIA’s position statement and the U.S. Conference of Mayor’s Resolution #50 adopting the “2030 Challenge” as a means of dramatically reducing building sector greenhouse gas emissions. His report, \"Roadmap to Zero Emissions\" submitted to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change, outlines his strategy for addressing what he believes is today’s most pressing global challenge.\n\nHe is the founder of Architecture 2030, a climate change organization. He currently speaks nationally and internationally on the subject of climate change and the built environment.\n\n"}
{"id": "44074407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44074407", "title": "European Land Registry Association", "text": "European Land Registry Association\n\nELRA (European Land Registry Association) is an International association without lucrative purpose (AISBL: Association internationale sans but lucratif) which mission and primary purpose is “the development and understanding of the role of land registration in real property and capital markets”.\nThe European Land Registry Association was born on 2004 to defend the interest of Land Registries in the European Union. Initially it started off with 12 members and it now has 30 organizations representing the land registries of 22 Member States.\n\nELRA’s internal organisation includes the following organs:\n\nThe project aims to produce a model for standardised land registry output, connected to explanatory material in different languages, and to provide training to improve understanding of the different legal systems involved. The European Land Registry Association (ELRA) will work closely with other associations and networks working in this area. It will use the resources of ELRA’s European Land Registry Network(ELRN) and build on the experience gained from EULIS’s Project LINE (a project which aims to facilitate compliance with the requirements of the e-Justice programme in the area of land registration).\nThe objective is to increase the accessibility and transparency of land registry information and to facilitate the registration of cross-border documents. Varied legislation and practices of Land Registries hamper the exchange of information between them and the registration of cross border documents. Any standard model has to take into account fundamental differences in national organisation. However, common points offer the possibility of defining a structure of key information shared by the majority of Land Registry systems.\n\n"}
{"id": "13773291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13773291", "title": "Every Disabled Child Matters", "text": "Every Disabled Child Matters\n\nEvery Disabled Child Matters (EDCM) is a political campaign based in England with the aim of improving rights for disabled children and their families. The stated campaign objectives focus on issues such as poverty, education, access to government services and inclusion. The campaign was launched in September 2006.\nThe campaign is run jointly by four organisations:\nThe strategy for the campaign is set by an executive team drawn from these four organisations.\n"}
{"id": "46545854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46545854", "title": "First Circuit Court of the Supreme People's Court", "text": "First Circuit Court of the Supreme People's Court\n\nThe First Circuit Court of the Supreme People's Court of the People's Republic of China (中华人民共和国最高人民法院第一巡回法庭), is a circuit court created in December 2014 and opened on January 28, 2015, in Shenzhen, China. It has jurisdiction in the provinces of Guangdong, Guangxi, and Hainan.\n\nDiffering from a circuit court in a common law jurisdiction, the First Circuit is part of a pilot program to establish circuit courts of the Supreme People's Court outside Beijing, the seat of the national government, with the same level of jurisdiction of the supreme court, i.e. cases decided by the circuit courts are deemed as finally decided by the supreme court itself. The pilot program is carried out in an effort to avoid local influences.\n\n"}
{"id": "13314138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13314138", "title": "German Party (Yugoslavia)", "text": "German Party (Yugoslavia)\n\nThe German Party () was a political party of Germans in the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes. The party was formed in 1922 and participated in elections until it was banned following Yugoslav king Alexander I's dictatorship of January 6, 1929.\n\n"}
{"id": "24828113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24828113", "title": "Gran Cuñado", "text": "Gran Cuñado\n\nGran Cuñado (in Spanish, \"Big Brother-in-law\") was a segment of the TV program from Argentina Showmatch, hosted by Marcelo Tinelli. It had 19 participants, began broadcasting on 11 May 2009 with a 31.9 rating and a peak of 46 points. The program consisted of a series of comedians characterized as Argentina's most prominent politicians, including parodies of various clichés. With those imitators they made a parody of the reality show \"Big Brother\", especially the stay of participants in a \"house\" where he pretended to live, and a regular nomination process through which one participant was eliminated at a time. The triumph belonged to the imitation of Francisco de Narváez, by Roberto Peña.\n\nThe program was broadcast for much of the electoral campaign for the legislative elections in Argentina in 2009 and given its huge success several media suggested that it influenced to some degree its development. Several of the parodied political made statements on the program, and some even visited it in person.\n\nThe imitations of politicians were made by various comedians of the program, disguised in ways that grotesquely mimicked the look of major Argentine politicians of the time. The scripts were written by cartoonist Cristian Dzwonik, known as \"Nik\". Their dialogues and behaviors were based on clichés made from well-known events or quotes of them. For example, the imitation of former president Néstor Kirchner frequently used the phrase \"¿Qué te pasa Clarín, estás nervioso?!\" (\"What's wrong Clarin, you're nervous?!\"), reflecting the conflict between the Argentine government and Grupo Clarín. The specific phrase was used several times by Kirchner during a ceremony in the town of Tres de Febrero, shortly after his defeat in the elections at Catamarca. Another example, one of the first commercials by Francisco de Narváez used the slogan \"votame, votate\" (\"Vote me, vote yourself\") which prompted his imitator to use other verbs in verbal forms like, or even the phrase \"Alica, Alicate\" that sounds similar in Spanish.\n\nThe imitations were developed in two main contexts, the \"house\" and nominations; both parodies of similar procedures performed in the reality show \"Big Brother\". The house showed politicians in a simulated environment of everyday life, where all of them would live together. There were discussions taking place, parties, jokes among politicians, etc. The house was also the place where it was announced which politics were nominated out of it and which ones were not, which was used to show various reactions.\n\nGroups of participants were nominated for eviction and viewer could vote by phone to decide who should \"leave the house\" and cease to be part of the program.\n\nOne of the drawbacks of the format of the program was that some politicians (like Cristina Fernandez and Macri) were played by the same comedian, which prevented both being used simultaneously. This was resolved by not nominating politicians in this situation at the same time (the composition of the groups nominated was not controllable by the public), and using an extra actor in the house without speech lines assigned.\n\nThe group of politicians elected in the beginning did not include Gabriela Michetti or Pino Solanas, who achieved notoriety soon after. The program office decided to include imitation by Anita Martinez and Toti Ciliberto respectively, but only for scenes in the house without incorporating them into the system of nominations. It was also included an imitation of Venezuelan President Hugo Chávez, the only non-Argentine politician parodied in the program.\n\n\"Gran Cuñado\" generated a stir in the real political world, and several leaders expressed positive or negative opinions about the program. Minister Anibal Fernandez criticized the parody of President Cristina Fernandez, arguing that \"In some ways I think there were excesses, should be regulated because it is the President, and other things, was very successful: we must be fair to those things\". Shortly after he recanted on the use of the word \"regulate\", but insisted that the presidential parody should be removed from the program. The Vice President, Julio Cobos, was also uncomfortable with his respective parody, considering that it portrays him as indecisive or hesitant. Néstor Kirchner had no opinion on the program, arguing that he never saw it. For his part, opposition leaders De Narvaez, Elisa Carrio and Macri took the program with humor.\n\nOther criticisms leveled against the program did not target the program itself but its impact on society, criticizing that in an election campaign imitations in Gran Cuñado were an issue of debate more discussed than the political projects of candidates.\n\nIn the early days of the start of the program Francisco de Narvaez met his imitator on the program \"Intrusos\". The success of that meeting led to a new variant that was added to the program: the \"Right of Reply\", in which politicians wishing to do so could be invited to attend and interact with their imitators or imitations of the other politicians.\n\nThe first politician to appear on the agenda was, again, de Narvaez, on June 4. He was followed four days later by the rural leader Alfredo de Angeli, along with his brother. On 11 and 15 June were presented Kirchner politicians Sergio Massa and Daniel Scioli. On 16, 18 and 22 was the turn of \"Unión PRO\" politicians Felipe Sola, Gabriela Michetti and Mauricio Macri, who played a song of Queen. The last one was Carlos Alberto Reutemann on 23 June. Until the electoral ban began at midnight June 25, it was speculated that Néstor Kirchner would perform in the program, but there was only a phone call.\n\nThere were no appearances of politicians after the election, but telephone contact. De Narvaez, Macri and Sola were contacted on 29 June after his victory, and the last day of the program.\n"}
{"id": "30599237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30599237", "title": "Imperial Diet (Holy Roman Empire)", "text": "Imperial Diet (Holy Roman Empire)\n\nThe Imperial Diet (; ) was the deliberative body of the Holy Roman Empire. It was not a legislative body in the contemporary sense; its members envisioned it more like a central forum where it was more important to negotiate than to decide. \n\nIts members were the Imperial Estates, divided into three colleges. The diet as a permanent, regularized institution evolved from the \"Hoftage\" (court assemblies) of the Middle Ages. From 1663 until the end of the empire in 1806, it was in permanent session at Regensburg.\n\nThe Imperial Estates had, according to feudal law, no authority above them besides the Holy Roman Emperor (or emperor-elect) himself. The holding of an Imperial Estate entitled one to a vote in the diet. Thus, an individual member might have multiple votes and votes in different colleges. In general, members did not attend the permanent diet at Regensburg, but sent representatives instead. The late imperial diet was in effect a permanent meeting of ambassadors between the Estates.\n\nThe precise role and function of the Imperial Diet changed over the centuries, as did the Empire itself, in that the estates and separate territories gained more and more control of their own affairs at the expense of imperial power. Initially, there was neither a fixed time nor location for the Diet. It started as a convention of the dukes of the old Germanic tribes that formed the Frankish kingdom when important decisions had to be made, and was probably based on the old Germanic law whereby each leader relied on the support of his leading men. For example, already under Emperor Charlemagne during the Saxon Wars, the Diet, according to the Royal Frankish Annals, met at Paderborn in 777 and officially determined laws concerning the subdued Saxons and other tribes. In 803, the Frankish emperor issued the final version of the Lex Saxonum.\n\nAt the Diet of 919 in Fritzlar the dukes elected the first King of the Germans, who was a Saxon, Henry the Fowler, thus overcoming the longstanding rivalry between Franks and Saxons and laying the foundation for the German realm. After the conquest of Italy, the 1158 Diet of Roncaglia finalized four laws that would significantly alter the (never formally written) constitution of the Empire, marking the beginning of the steady decline of the central power in favour of the local dukes. The Golden Bull of 1356 cemented the concept of \"territorial rule\" (\"Landesherrschaft\"), the largely independent rule of the dukes over their respective territories, and also limited the number of electors to seven. The Pope, contrary to modern myth, was never involved in the electoral process but only in the process of ratification and coronation of whomever the Prince-Electors chose.\nHowever, until the late 15th century, the Diet was not actually formalized as an institution. Instead, the dukes and other princes would irregularly convene at the court of the Emperor; these assemblies were usually referred to as \"Hoftage\" (from German \"Hof\" \"court\"). Only beginning in 1489 was the Diet called the \"Reichstag\", and it was formally divided into several \"collegia\" (\"colleges\"). Initially, the two colleges were that of the prince-electors and that of the other dukes and princes. Later, the imperial cities, that is, cities that had Imperial immediacy and were oligarchic republics independent of a local ruler that were subject only to the Emperor himself, managed to be accepted as a third party.\n\nSeveral attempts to reform the Empire and end its slow disintegration, notably starting with the Diet of 1495, did not have much effect. In contrast, this process was only hastened with the Peace of Westphalia of 1648, which formally bound the Emperor to accept all decisions made by the Diet, in effect depriving him of his few remaining powers. From then to its end in 1806, the Empire was not much more than a collection of largely independent states.\n\nProbably the most famous Diets were those held in Worms in 1495, where the Imperial Reform was enacted, and 1521, where Martin Luther was banned (see Edict of Worms), the Diets of Speyer 1526 and 1529 (see Protestation at Speyer), and several in Nuremberg (Diet of Nuremberg). Only with the introduction of the Perpetual Diet of Regensburg in 1663 did the Diet permanently convene in a fixed location.\n\nThe Imperial Diet of Constance opened on 27 April 1507; it recognized the unity of the Holy Roman Empire and founded the Imperial Chamber, the empire’s supreme court.\n\nSince 1489, the Diet comprised three colleges:\n\nThe Electoral college (\"Kurfürstenrat\"), led by the Prince-Archbishop of Mainz in his capacity as Archchancellor of Germany. The seven Prince-electors were designated by the Golden Bull of 1356:\n\nThe number increased to eight, when in 1623 the Duke of Bavaria took over the electoral dignity of the Count Palatine, who himself received a separate vote in the electoral college according to the 1648 Peace of Westphalia (\"Causa Palatina\"), including the high office of an Archtreasurer. In 1692 the Elector of Brunswick-Lüneburg (Hannover) became the ninth Prince-elector as Archbannerbearer during the Nine Years' War.\n\nIn the War of the Bavarian Succession, the electoral dignities of the Palatinate and Bavaria were merged, approved by the 1779 Treaty of Teschen. The German Mediatisation of 1803 entailed the dissolution of the Cologne and Trier Prince-archbishoprics, the Prince-Archbishop of Mainz and German Archchancellor received—as compensation for his lost territory occupied by Revolutionary France—the newly established Principality of Regensburg. In turn, four secular princes were elevated to prince-electors:\nThese changes however had little effect, as with the abdication of Francis II as Holy Roman Emperor the Empire was dissolved only three years later.\n\nThe college of Imperial Princes (\"Reichsfürstenrat\" or \"Fürstenbank\") incorporated the Imperial Counts as well as immediate lords, Prince-Bishops and Imperial abbots. Strong in members, though often discordant, the second college tried to preserve its interests against the dominance of the Prince-electors.\n\nThe House of Princes was again subdivided into an ecclesiastical and a secular bench. Remarkably, the ecclesiastical bench was headed by the—secular—Archduke of Austria and the Burgundian duke of the Habsburg Netherlands (held by Habsburg Spain from 1556). As the Austrian House of Habsburg had failed to assume the leadership of the secular bench, they received the guidance over the ecclesiastical princes instead. The first ecclesiastical prince was the Archbishop of Salzburg as \"Primas Germaniae\"; the Prince-Archbishop of Besançon, though officially a member until the 1678 Treaty of Nijmegen, did not attend the Diet's meetings.\n\nThe ecclesiastical bench also comprised the Grand Master and \"Deutschmeister\" of the Teutonic Knights, as well as the Grand Prior of the Monastic State of the Knights Hospitaller at Heitersheim. The Prince-Bishopric of Lübeck remained an ecclesiastical member even after it had turned Protestant, ruled by diocesan administrators from the House of Holstein-Gottorp from 1586. The Prince-Bishopric of Osnabrück, according to the 1648 Peace of Westphalia was under alternating rule of a Catholic bishop and a Lutheran bishop from the House of Brunswick-Lüneburg.\n\nEach member of the Princes' College held either a single vote (\"Virilstimme\") or a collective vote (\"Kuriatstimme\"). Due to the Princes, their single vote from 1582 strictly depended on their immediate fiefs; this principle led to an accumulation of votes, when one ruler held several territories in personal union. Counts and Lords only were entitled to collective votes, they therefore formed separate colleges like the Wetterau Association of Imperial Counts and mergers within the Swabian, the Franconian and the Lower Rhenish–Westphalian Circles. Likewise, on the ecclesiastical bench, the Imperial abbots joined a Swabian or Rhenish college.\n\nIn the German Mediatisation of 1803, numerous ecclesiastical territories were annexed by secular estates. A reform of the Princes' college was however not carried out until the Empire's dissolution in 1806.\n\nThe college of Imperial Cities (\"Reichsstädtekollegium\") evolved from 1489 onwards, it contributed greatly to the development of the Imperial Diets as a political institution. Nevertheless, the collective vote of the cities initially was of inferior importance until a 1582 Recess of the Augsburg Diet. The college was led by the city council of the actual venue; with the implementation of the Perpetual Diet in 1663, the chair passed to Regensburg.\n\nThe Imperial cities also divided into a Swabian and Rhenish bench. The Swabian cities were led by Nuremberg, Augsburg and Regensburg, the Rhenish cities by Cologne, Aachen and Frankfurt.\n\nFor a complete list of members of the Imperial Diet from 1792, near the end of the Empire, see List of Reichstag participants (1792).\n\nAfter the Peace of Westphalia, religious matters could no longer be decided by a majority vote of the colleges. Instead, the Reichstag would separate into Catholic and Protestant bodies, which would discuss the matter separately and then negotiate an agreement with each other. The Catholic body, or \"corpus catholicum\", was headed by the Archbishop-Elector of Mainz.\n\nThe Protestant body, or \"corpus evangelicorum\", was headed by the Elector of Saxony. At meetings of the Protestant body, Saxony would introduce each topic of discussion, after which Brandenburg-Prussia and Hanover would speak, followed by the remaining states in order of size. When all the states had spoken, Saxony would weigh the votes and announce a consensus.\n\nFrederick Augustus I, Elector of Saxony converted to Catholicism in 1697 in order to become King of Poland, but the Electorate itself remained officially Protestant and retained the directorship of the Protestant body. When the Elector's son also converted to Catholicism, Prussia and Hanover attempted to take over the directorship in 1717–1720, but without success. The Electors of Saxony would head the Protestant body until the end of the Holy Roman Empire.\n\nAfter the formation of the new German Empire in 1871, the Historical Commission of the Bavarian Academy of Sciences started to collect imperial records (\"Reichsakten\") and imperial diet records (\"Reichstagsakten\"). In 1893 the commission published the first volume. At present the years 1524–1527 and years up to 1544 are being collected and researched. A volume dealing with the 1532 Diet of Regensburg, including the peace negotiations with the Protestants in Schweinfurt and Nuremberg, by Rosemarie Aulinger of Vienna was published in 1992.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7978072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7978072", "title": "Jewish Bolshevism", "text": "Jewish Bolshevism\n\nJewish Bolshevism, also Judeo–Bolshevism, is an anti-communist and antisemitic canard, which alleges that the Jews were the originators of the Russian Revolution in 1917 and that they held the primary power among the Bolsheviks. Similarly, the conspiracy theory of Jewish Communism implies that Jews have dominated the Communist movements in the world, and is related to The Zionist Occupation Government conspiracy theory (ZOG), which asserts that Jews control world politics. \n\nIn 1917, after the October revolution, the catchword was the title of the pamphlet, \"The Jewish Bolshevism\", which featured in the racist propaganda of the anti-communist White movement forces during the Russian Civil War (1918–22). The Nazi Party in Germany and the German-American Bund in the United States propagated the anti-Semitic theory to their followers, sympathisers, and fellow travellers during the 1930s.\n\nThe expressions Jewish Bolshevism, Jewish Communism, and the ZOG conspiracy are used as far-right catchwords for the false assertions that Communism is a Jewish conspiracy. In Poland, \"Judeo-Bolshevism\", known as \"Żydokomuna\", was an antisemitic stereotype.\n\nThe conflation of Jews and revolution emerged in the atmosphere of destruction of Russia during World War I. When the revolutions of 1917 crippled Russia's war effort, conspiracy theories developed far from Berlin and Petrograd. Many Britons for example ascribed the Russian Revolution to an \"apparent conjunction of Bolsheviks, Germans and Jews.\" \nThe worldwide spread of the concept in the 1920s is associated with the publication and circulation of \"The Protocols of the Elders of Zion\", a fraudulent document that purported to describe a secret Jewish conspiracy aimed at world domination. The expression made an issue out of the Jewishness of some leading Bolsheviks (such as Leon Trotsky) during and after the October Revolution. Daniel Pipes said that \"primarily through \"the Protocols of the Elders of Zion\", the Whites spread these charges to an international audience.\" James Webb wrote that it is rare to find an antisemitic source after 1917 that \"does not stand in debt to the White Russian analysis of the Revolution.\"\n\nAntisemitism in the Russian Empire existed both culturally and institutionally. The Jews were restricted to live within the Pale of Settlement, and suffered pogroms. Between 1881 and 1920, more than two million Jews left Russia.\n\nAs a result, many Jews supported gradual or revolutionary changes within the Russian Empire. Those movements ranged from the far left (Jewish Anarchism, Bundists, Bolsheviks, Mensheviks) to moderate left (Trudoviks) and constitutionalist (Constitutional Democrats) parties. On the eve of the February Revolution in 1917, of about 23,000 members of the Bolshevik party, 364 (about 1.6%) were known to be ethnic Jews. According to the 1922 Bolshevik party census, there were 19,564 Jewish Bolsheviks, comprising 5.21% of the total, and in the 1920s of the 417 members of the Central Executive Committee, the party Central Committee, the Presidium of the Executive of the Soviets of the USSR and the Russian Republic, the People's Commissars, 6% were ethnic Jews. Between 1936 and 1940, during the Great Purge, Yezhovshchina and after the rapprochement with Nazi Germany, Stalin had largely eliminated Jews from senior party, government, diplomatic, security and military positions.\n\nSome scholars have grossly exaggerated Jewish presence in the Soviet Communist Party. For example, British journalist David Aaronovitch quotes Alfred Jensen as saying that in the 1920s \"75 per cent of the leading Bolsheviks\" were \"of Jewish origin\". According to Aaronovitch, \"a cursory examination of membership of the top committees shows this figure to be an absurd exaggeration\".\n\nWalter Laqueur traces the Jewish-Bolshevik conspiracy theory to Nazi ideologue Alfred Rosenberg, for whom Bolshevism was \"the revolt of the Jewish, Slavic and Mongolian races against the German (Aryan) element in Russia\". Germans, according to Rosenberg, had been responsible for Russia's historic achievements and had been sidelined by the Bolsheviks, who did not represent the interests of the Russian people, but instead those of its ethnic Jewish and Chinese population.\n\nMichael Kellogg in his Ph.D. thesis argues that the racist ideology of Nazis was to a significant extent influenced by White emigres in Germany, many of whom, while being former subjects of the Russian Empire, were of non-Russian descent: ethnic Germans, residents of Baltic lands, including Baltic Germans, and Ukrainians. Of particular role was their \"Aufbau\" organization (Aufbau: Wirtschafts-politische Vereinigung für den Osten (Reconstruction: Economic-Political Organization for the East). For example, its leader was instrumental in making the \"Protocols of The Elders of Zion\" available in German language. He argues that early Hitler was rather philosemitic, and became rabidly anti-Semitic since 1919 under the influence of the White emigre convictions about the conspiracy of the Jews, an unseen unity from financial capitalists to Bolsheviks, to conquer the world. Therefore, his conclusion is that White emigres were at the source of the Nazi concept of Jewish Bolshevism. Annemarie Sammartino argues that this view is contestable. While there is no doubt that White emigres were instrumental in reinforcing the idea of 'Jewish Bolshevism' among Nazis, the concept is also found in many German early post–World War I documents. Also, Germany had its own share of Jewish Communists \"to provide fodder for the paranoid fantasies of German antisemites\" without Russian Bolsheviks.\n\nDuring the 1920s, Hitler declared that the mission of the Nazi movement was to destroy \"Jewish Bolshevism\". Hitler asserted that the \"three vices\" of \"Jewish Marxism\" were democracy, pacifism and internationalism, and that the Jews were behind Bolshevism, communism and Marxism.\n\nIn Nazi Germany, this concept of Jewish Bolshevism reflected a common perception that Communism was a Jewish-inspired and Jewish-led movement seeking world domination from its origin. The term was popularized in print in German journalist Dietrich Eckhart's 1924 pamphlet \"Der Bolschewismus von Moses bis Lenin\" (\"Bolshevism from Moses to Lenin\") which depicted Moses and Lenin as both being Communists and Jews. This was followed by Alfred Rosenberg's 1923 edition of the \"Protocols of the Elders of Zion\" and Hitler's \"Mein Kampf\" in 1925, which saw Bolshevism as \"Jewry's twentieth century effort to take world dominion unto itself.\"\n\nAccording to French spymaster and writer Henri Rollin, \"Hitlerism\" was based on \"anti-Soviet counter-revolution\" promoting the \"myth of a mysterious Jewish-Masonic-Bolshevik plot\", entailing that the First World War had been instigated by a vast Jewish-Masonic conspiracy to topple the Russian, German, and Austro-Hungarian Empires and implement Bolshevism by fomenting liberal ideas.\n\nA major source for propaganda about Jewish Bolshevism in the 1930s and early 1940s was the pro-Nazi and antisemitic international \"Welt-Dienst\" news agency founded in 1933 by Ulrich Fleischhauer.\n\nWithin the German Army, a tendency to see Soviet Communism as a Jewish conspiracy had grown since the First World War, something that became officialized under the Nazis. A 1932 pamphlet by Ewald Banse of the Government-financed German National Association for the Military Sciences described the Soviet leadership as mostly Jewish, dominating an apathetic and mindless Russian population.\nPropaganda produced in 1935 by the psychological war laboratory of the German War Ministry described Soviet officials as \"mostly filthy Jews\" and called on Red Army soldiers to rise up and kill their \"Jewish commissars\". This material was not used at the time, but served as a basis for propaganda in the 1940s.\n\nMembers of the SS were encouraged to fight against the \"Jewish Bolshevik sub-humans\". In the pamphlet \"The SS as an Anti-Bolshevist Fighting Organization\", published in 1936, \"Reichsführer-SS\" Heinrich Himmler wrote:\n\nIn his speech to the \"Reichstag\" justifying Operation Barbarossa in 1941, Hitler said:\n\nField-Marshal Wilhelm Keitel gave an order on 12 September 1941 which declared: \"the struggle against Bolshevism demands ruthless and energetic, rigorous action above all against the Jews, the main carriers of Bolshevism.\n\nHistorian Richard J. Evans wrote that Wehrmacht officers regarded the Russians as \"sub-human\", and were from the time of the invasion of Poland in 1939 telling their troops the war was caused by \"Jewish vermin\", explaining to the troops that the war against the Soviet Union was a war to wipe out what were variously described as \"Jewish Bolshevik subhumans\", the \"Mongol hordes\", the \"Asiatic flood\" and the \"red beast\", language clearly intended to produce war crimes by reducing the enemy to something less than human.\n\nJoseph Goebbels published an article in 1942 called \"the so-called Russian soul\" in which he claimed that Bolshevism was exploiting the Slavs and that the battle of the Soviet Union determined whether Europe would become under complete control by international Jewry.\n\nNazi propaganda presented Barbarossa as an ideological-racial war between German National Socialism and \"Judeo-Bolshevism\", dehumanising the Soviet enemy as a force of Slavic \"Untermensch\" (sub-humans) and \"Asiatic\" savages engaging in \"barbaric Asiatic fighting methods\" commanded by evil Jewish commissars whom German troops were to grant no mercy. The vast majority of the Wehrmacht officers and soldiers tended to regard the war in Nazi terms, seeing their Soviet opponents as sub-human.\n\nIn the early 1920s, a leading British antisemite, Henry Hamilton Beamish, stated that Bolshevism was the same thing as Judaism. In the same decade, future wartime Prime Minister Winston Churchill penned an editorial entitled \"Zionism versus Bolshevism,\" which was published in the \"Illustrated Sunday Herald\". In the article, which asserted that Zionism and Bolshevism were engaged in a \"struggle for the soul of the Jewish people\", he called on Jews to repudiate \"the Bolshevik conspiracy\" and make clear that \"the Bolshevik movement is not a Jewish movement\" but stated that:\n\n[Bolshevism] among the Jews is nothing new. From the days of Spartacus-Weishaupt to those of Karl Marx, and down to Trotsky (Russia), Bela Kun (Hungary), Rosa Luxemburg (Germany), and Emma Goldman (United States), this world-wide conspiracy for the overthrow of civilisation and for the reconstitution of society on the basis of arrested development, of envious malevolence, and impossible equality, has been steadily growing.\n\nAuthor Gisela C. Lebzelter noted that Churchill's analysis failed to analyze the role that Russian oppression of Jews had played in their joining various revolutionary movements, but instead \"to inherent inclinations rooted in Jewish character and religion.\"\n\n\"The Jewish Bolshevism\" is a 31- or 32-page antisemitic pamphlet published in London in 1922 and 1923 by the Britons Publishing Society. It included a foreword by the German Nazi ideologue Alfred Rosenberg who promulgated the concept of \"Jewish Bolshevism\".\n\nThis relatively obscure publication embodies the Nazi doctrine that \"Jewishness\" and Bolshevism are the same; or that Bolshevism is Jewish, whether everything Jewish is included within Bolshevism. The methodology used consists of identifying Bolsheviks as Jews; by birth, or by name or by demographics.\n\nAccording to Singerman, \"The Jewish Bolshevism\", which he dubs as item \"0121\" in his Bibliography, is \"Identical in content to item \"0120\", the pamphlet \"The Grave Diggers of Russia\", which was published in 1921 in Germany, by Dr. E. Boepple. In 1922, historian Gisela C. Lebzelter wrote: \"The Britons published a brochure entitled Jewish Bolshevism, which featured drawings of Russian leaders supplemented by brief comments on their Jewish descent and affiliation. This booklet, with the preface by Alfred Rosenberg, had previously been published in English by \"völkisch Deutscher Volksverlag\".\"\n\n\"The Octopus\" is a 256-page book self-published in 1940 by Elizabeth Dilling under the pseudonym \"Rev. Frank Woodruff Johnson\". In it she describe her theories of Jewish Bolshevism.\n\nFrank L. Britton, editor of \"The American Nationalist\" published a book, \"Behind Communism\", in 1952 which disseminated the myth that Communism was a Jewish conspiracy originating in Palestine.\n\nResearchers in the field, such as Polish philosopher Stanisław Krajewski or André Gerrits, denounce the concept of Jewish Bolshevism as a prejudice. Law professor Ilya Somin agrees, and compares Jewish involvement in other communist countries. \"Overrepresentation of a group in a political movement does not prove either that the movement was \"dominated\" by that group or that it primarily serves that group’s interests. The idea that communist oppression was somehow Jewish in nature is belied by the record of communist regimes in countries like China, North Korea, and Cambodia, where the Jewish presence was and is minuscule.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42240345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42240345", "title": "John Izzo", "text": "John Izzo\n\nJohn Izzo is a businessman, corporate advisor, speaker, bestselling author and an advocate for sustainable living. He is a citizen of both the United States and Canada, and lives in Vancouver, British Columbia and Rancho Mirage, California. He writes and speaks about the \"world of work\". Izzo is the author of seven books.\n\nIzzo graduated from Hofstra University with a B.A. in Sociology and Journalism in 1979. He earned a M.Div. from McCormick Theological Seminary, Chicago, Illinois, in 1981. He graduated with a Ph.D. in Communication Studies from Kent State University in 1992.\n\nIzzo began his career as Presbyterian minister, serving in three churches in Ohio and California from 1981 to 1987. He then worked for five years as an organization-development consultant and manager for the City of San Diego and Kaiser Permanente, San Diego. He then was Vice-President of Einstein Consulting Group in Philadelphia.\n\nIzzo opened a business-consulting practice in Vancouver, BC, and became an instructor in communication at San Diego State University and Kent State University. He acted as a consultant to private companies, government agencies and NGOs, including Northrop Grumman, TELUS, BAE Systems, Lockheed Martin, Tim Horton's, McDonald's, Devon Energy, Georgia Power, DuPont, Westjet, IBM, Verizon, and Fairmont Hotels. His work has been featured by \"Newsweek\", \"Fast Company\", the \"Wall Street Journal\", CNN, \"The New York Times\", \"Maclean's\" and ABC World News. He has spoken or been interviewed on about 100 radio stations and television networks in the U.S. and Canada.\n\nHis first book, \"Awakening Corporate Soul\", was published in 1994, and concerned employee engagement.\nIn 1998, Izzo joined the board of the Canadian Parks and Wilderness Society in Vancouver, BC, and served as its Chair from 2000 to 2004. He was also the Conservation Chair of the Sierra Club, California from 1990 to 1994, and Chair of the North American NGO Environmental Caucus, UN Conference on Population and Development in Cairo, Egypt in 1994.\n\nIzzo published his second book, \"Values Shift-Engaging, Retaining & Motivating the Multigenerational Workforce\", in 2007. The book pointed out shifts in the new generation of employees and profiled companies which had made corresponding workplace changes. Later that year he published \"The Five Secrets You must Discover before You Die\", which was named the best self-help book of 2008 by the Independent Book Publishers Association. His 2012 book, \"Stepping Up\", is about personal responsibility in life, work and society.\n\nIzzo has given many talks on green business and sustainability at conferences around the world. He has spoken at schools across Canada and the United States and consulted with large educational associations. In 2013, he gave a TedX talk in Vancouver entitled \"The Defining Moment for a Generation-In-Waiting\". He was host and producer of the five-hour Biography and PBS TV series, \"The Five Secrets You Must Discover before You Die\", based on his 2008 book.\n\nIn 2014 Izzo worked on a project in East Africa to educate women to become successful entrepreneurs. He is a Distinguished Fellow at the EastWest Institute.\n\nHe is currently an Adjunct Professor in the School of Medicine at the University of British Columbia.\n\nIzzo is the author of about 60 articles in peer-reviewed and trade publications. He is a blog columnist for CSRwire and the Huffington Post, and has been a business columnist for \"The Globe and Mail\" newspaper in Toronto.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2095661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2095661", "title": "Kanak Socialist Liberation", "text": "Kanak Socialist Liberation\n\nThe Kanak Socialist Liberation (, LKS) is a Kanak pro-independence and socialist political party in New Caledonia, led by Nidoïsh Naisseline.\n\nThe LKS was founded by a split in the Party of Kanak Liberation (Palika) in 1981. The most radical members of Palika, which had been the base of the party since its creation, walked out criticizing the Palika's increasing moderation and increasing links with the metropolitan French Socialist Party (PS). Led by Nidoïsh Naisseline, a Marxist, it also refused to support Rock Pidjot of the Caledonian Union in the 1981 elections. However, the LKS moderated and it did not participate in the FLNKS-led electoral boycotts in the 1980s. In the 1990s, the party even started co-operating with the anti-independence Rally for Caledonia in the Republic (RPCR) in the Loyalty Islands. Thanks to this alliance, Nidoïsh Naisseline was president of the islands between 1995 and 1999. During this time, the LKS adopted a platform in favour of independence-association and started early negotiations with the loyalists while the FLNKS refused talks until a mining dispute in the North had been settled. The alliance with the RPCR ended in 2004, but the LKS has remained close to anti-independence parties, notably Future Together. In fact, Christiane Gambey, a member of Future Together, is also a member of the LKS. \n\nThe LKS supports the Nouméa Accord but wishes to renegotiate certain parts of it, such as replacing the collegial government (which is in practice a perpetual grand coalition between loyalists and nationalists) by a fixed government pulling its support from a fixed majority in Congress. \n\nIn the latest legislative elections of 9 May 2009, it won 1.92% of the popular vote, and 1 out of 54 seats in the Congress of New Caledonia. It has two seats in the Loyalty Islands.\n"}
{"id": "4433889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4433889", "title": "Labour Leader's Office Fund", "text": "Labour Leader's Office Fund\n\nThe Labour Leader's Office Fund was a blind trust established and run by Lord Levy to finance Tony Blair's work in opposition before the 1997 General Election. Contributors to it included the millionaires Sir Trevor Chinn, Sir Emmanuel Kaye, Alex Bernstein and Bob Gavron, the latter two of whom later received peerages.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2021315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2021315", "title": "Libertarian perspectives on LGBT rights", "text": "Libertarian perspectives on LGBT rights\n\nLibertarian perspectives on LGBT rights illustrate how libertarian individuals and political parties have applied the libertarian philosophy to the subject of lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) rights.\n\nThe Liberal Alternative party states: \"We wish to make marriage a private affair, whether religious or not, composed simply of two consenting adults, without regard for sex, and with no further obligation beyond going to the local magistrate/city hall to notify the state about the union. This form of civil union would replace the PACS symbolically. Recognition of marriage is, of course, possible.\"\n\nLibertarianz stated in their platform that the party \"fully supports the concept of a civil union and would also support allowing marriages between same sex couples, and indeed polygamous marriages or marriages between people who are already related—in all cases as long as all parties are adults and consenting.\" The organization ceased to exist in February 2014.\n\nThe Libertarian Party of Russia has been one of the most active vocal opponent of the 2013 Russian law banning propaganda of homosexuality among minors. Libertarian Party activists have participated in a demonstrations in front of the Moscow City Duma against the adoption of the law. At a 2012 picket, the Libertarian Party announced its opposition to homophobic laws restricting people's right to freedom of speech.\n\nAnarcho-capitalists believe in stateless voluntary society, thus oppose any law supporting or opposing LGBT rights. The issue of LGBT rights would be left up individually for people to decide whether to support or oppose LGBT rights. Adam Kokesh argues LGBT people should be anarcho-capitalists.\n\nIn 1972 John Hospers, who was widely believed to be gay (although not openly so) ran for president of the United States as the Libertarian Party's first presidential candidate.\n\nIn 1975, Ralph Raico helped to create the \"Libertarian For Gay Rights\" caucus within the party, and subsequently published \"Gay Rights: A Libertarian Approach\".\n\nThe second LGBT rights organization to operate from a libertarian perspective was the Libertarians for Gay and Lesbian Concerns. The organization held its first national convention in 1985, and sought to promote libertarianism to LGBT Americans.\n\nIn 1998, Outright Libertarians was formed. Outright Libertarians are also affiliated with the Libertarian Party of the United States and takes many of the same position that the Libertarians for Gay and Lesbian Concerns did in the 1980s.\n\nIn 2009, the Libertarian Party came out against H.R. 1913, a purposed hate crime bill that would add to the federal hate crime statute the categories of sexual orientation, gender identity, and disability. The reason the Libertarian Party opposed the purposed hate crimes bill was because it would violate equal justice under the law by creating different classes of victims for the same crime. The Libertarian Party also accused legislators of attempting to buy the support of the LGBT community while still opposing same-sex marriage and repealing Don't ask, don't tell.\n\nIn 2013, the Libertarian Party applauded the U.S. Supreme Court's decision, \"United States v. Windsor\", to strike down Section 3 of the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA) as unconstitutional. The Libertarian Party has supported same-sex marriage since its founding in 1971.\n\nThe Libertarian Party of the United States takes the following positions relevant to LGBT rights:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19516749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19516749", "title": "List of Federal Republic of Germany governments", "text": "List of Federal Republic of Germany governments\n\nThis is a list of the successive governments of the Federal Republic of Germany from the time of the introduction of the Basic Law in 1949.\n\n"}
{"id": "47766892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47766892", "title": "List of Philippine government and military acronyms", "text": "List of Philippine government and military acronyms\n\nList of initialisms, acronyms (\"words made from parts of other words, pronounceable\"), and other abbreviations used by the government and the military of the Philippines. Note that this list is intended to be specific to the Philippine government and military—other nations will have their own acronyms.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41049309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41049309", "title": "List of constituencies of Tanzania", "text": "List of constituencies of Tanzania\n\nThe Parliament of Tanzania is made up of 239 constituencies which elect a Member of Parliament for a five-year term.\n"}
{"id": "35834075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35834075", "title": "List of members of the American Legislative Exchange Council", "text": "List of members of the American Legislative Exchange Council\n\nThe American Legislative Exchange Council, otherwise known by the acronym ALEC, is a non-profit 501(c) political organization established in 1973 in Chicago. The legislative members are state and federal legislators. It is a forum to allow the members to write model laws and discuss legislative language with other members. ALEC meetings are an opportunity for the corporate and non-profit leaders to meet and provide feedback to legislators. Member legislators can then use these model bills as templates for their own bills.\n\nALEC's vision statement is \"A nonpartisan membership association for conservative state lawmakers who shared a common belief in limited government, free markets, federalism, and individual liberty. Their vision and initiative resulted in the creation of a voluntary membership association for people who believed that government closest to the people was fundamentally more effective, more just, and a better guarantor of freedom than the distant, bloated federal government in Washington, D.C.\"\n\nALEC keeps its membership, activities and communications confidential. This list includes members whose identity primarily has become known through internal documents revealed to Common Cause and by research by members of the press.\n\nThe ALEC Board of Scholars is composed of the following:\n\nAs of December 2017, the ALEC board of directors is composed of the following:\nThe ALEC board of directors is composed of the following:\nThe ALEC private enterprise board is composed of the following corporate leaders:\nALEC state chairs from state legislatures are:\n\nALEC presently has 9 task forces to \"commission research, publish papers, convene workshops, issue alerts, and serve as clearinghouses of information on free market policies in the states.\" Each task force is co-chaired by one state legislator (termed \"public\") and one corporate representative(termed \"private\"), but Private Co-Chairs have veto power over final decisions of their task force. The primary goal of these task forces is to develop model policies for the country. \"The centerpiece to the Task Forces is ALEC's model legislation. To date, ALEC has considered, written, and approved hundreds of model bills, resolutions, and policy statements.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "398490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=398490", "title": "List of post-confederation New Brunswick general elections", "text": "List of post-confederation New Brunswick general elections\n\nThis article provides a summary of results for the general elections to the Canadian province of New Brunswick's unicameral legislative body, the Legislative Assembly of New Brunswick. Prior to 1892, New Brunswick had a bicameral legislature, but its Upper House – the Legislative Council – was not elected. The number of seats has varied over time – from 41 at the time of Canadian Confederation, to a high of fifty-eight from 1967 through 1991, to the current level of 55 since the 1995 election.\n\nBeginning with the 37th New Brunswick general election in 2010, elections in New Brunswick are – in general – held on fixed dates on the fourth Monday of September every four years. The date may be varied by one week earlier or later in cases of the fourth Monday of September being a date of cultural or religious significance and may be varied one month earlier or later in cases of a federal election being held during the same period. The Lieutenant-Governor of New Brunswick also has the power to call an election on another date in the event of a loss of confidence in the legislature.\n\nThe chart on the upper right shows the information graphically, with the most recent elections towards the right. It shows that New Brunswick has effectively a two-party system – the Liberals (red) and the Conservatives (blue); along with the one-off success of the Confederation of Regions party (green) in 1991. It also shows the Liberal party's clean sweep of seats in 1987, one of the few instances in history when a party won all the seats in a national or sub-national legislature. Since provincial parties were officially recognised, the Liberal party have won eleven out of twenty elections.\n\nThis article only covers elections since the province became part of the Canadian Confederation in 1867. Prior to becoming part of Canada, New Brunswick was a British colony; and the New Brunswick House of Assembly was first formed in 1784 – when New Brunswick separated from Nova Scotia.\n\nNew Brunswick joined the Canadian confederation in 1867. Between 1917 and 1935, party lines had developed, but were not recognized by electoral law. Before this, only \"Government\" and \"Opposition\" were used. The results are listed below. \n\nBetween 1935 and 1974, some ridings were multi member seats – i.e., more than one Member of the Legislative Assembly was elected from certain ridings. Political parties were officially recognized and registered beginning in 1935. Since 1974, each riding (electoral district) has elected only one member to the Legislative Assembly of New Brunswick.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7329313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7329313", "title": "Livermore Sector (U.S. Border Patrol)", "text": "Livermore Sector (U.S. Border Patrol)\n\nThe Livermore Sector of the Border Patrol was dismantled in 2004. This was part of a shift of Border Patrol enforcement away from the interior and to the border.\n\nThe Livermore Sector's focus from 1950s - 1986 was on ranch and farm patrol, as these industries hired a high proportion of illegal aliens. In 1986, Congress placed restrictions on ranch and farm enforcement operations by the Border Patrol. Instead, the Border Patrol focused on worksite enforcement (also known as \"employer sanctions\") such as compliance with I-9 reporting requirements. The Border Patrol's Livermore Sector also focused on responding to local police calls for assistance and transportation checks at bus and rail terminals. The Border Patrol also checked county jail bookings for illegal aliens.\n\nThe Livermore Sector's stations were defined in 8 CFR 100.4 as follows: \n\n\nThe Livermore Sector also had an anti-smuggling unit (ASU) that comprised Special Agents from the Border Patrol. \n\nToday, many of the duties previously handled by the Border Patrol's Livermore Sector are now handled by the Detention and Removal Operations (DRO) branch of Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE).\n\nOn September 6, 1989, at 1:45 a.m., Anti-Smuggling Agent Keith Connelly was shot by alien smugglers in the city of Fresno, California, where he died shortly thereafter. Agent Connelly was working an undercover operation accompanied by his partner, Ted Jordan, who was also shot but survived the ordeal. The Fresno, California Police Department responded to the emergency assistance call and apprehended the suspects who were turned over to the FBI for prosecution. The Federal Law Enforcement Training Center (FLETC) for years had a Marksman Award that was named in honor of Agent Keith Connelly.\n"}
{"id": "2019094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2019094", "title": "Nation of Yahweh", "text": "Nation of Yahweh\n\nThe Nation of Yahweh is a predominantly African American group that is the most controversial offshoot of the Black Hebrew Israelites religious movement. It has often been labeled a hate group and was founded in 1979 in Miami by Hulon Mitchell Jr., who went by the name Yahweh ben Yahweh. Its goal is to move African Americans, whom they see as the original Israelites, to Israel. The group departs from mainstream Christianity and Judaism by accepting Yahweh ben Yahweh as the Son of God. In this way, its beliefs are unique and distinct from that of other known Black Hebrew Israelite groups. The group has engendered controversy due to legal issues surrounding its founder and has also faced accusations of being a black supremacist cult by the Southern Poverty Law Center and \"The Miami Herald\".\n\nThe organization describes itself as: \"In 1979, Yahweh Ben Yahweh came to Miami and became the Spiritual Leader and Founder of The Nation of Yahweh. Although He took a vow of poverty, in seven years He guided The Nation to amass a $250,000,000 empire. Under His direction, The Nation has grown to encompass disciples, followers, and supporters in over 1,300 cities within the U.S. and 16 foreign countries.\"\n\nThe SPLC has criticized the beliefs of the Nation of Yahweh as racist, stating that the group believed that blacks are the true Israelites and that whites were devils. The SPLC also claims that the group believed that Yahweh ben Yahweh had a Messianic mission to vanquish whites and that it held views similar to those of the Christian Identity movement, which believes \"Aryans\" to be the true Israelites and that non-whites are devils. The SPLC quotes Tom Metzger of White Aryan Resistance as saying, \"[Groups like the Nation of Yahweh are] the Black counterpart of us.\"\n\nThe Anti-Defamation League has criticized the Nation of Yahweh and some other Black Hebrew sects, stating, \"In 1987, ADL reported on Black sects holding these views [arguing that today's Jews are not the \"chosen people\" described in the Bible, ... instead that the label applies to people of African descent], such as the Yahwehs and the Original African Hebrew Israelite Nation of Jerusalem. Today, this form of Black supremacy is promoted on the Web by the \"12 Tribes of Israel\" site, which cites hundreds of Biblical passages to prove that Blacks are the children of Israel and that whites are the Satanic offspring of Esau.\"\n\nMr. Yahweh controlled the clothing, food and sex lives of the people in his group. Twice married and divorced earlier in life, he took many of his young female followers to his bed.\n\n\"We may be rabbis and nuns here,\" he told \"The New York Times\" with a wide smile, \"but we don't believe in celibacy.\"\n\nMost followers were men, the main elders were men as well. Yahweh ben Yahweh’s wife, Linda Gaines (Judith Israel) became a significant helper and leader. Gaines collected money, handled finances and the possessions of full-time workers. She had a body guard and was high up in the following.\n\nDespite the death of their leader Yahweh ben Yahweh in 2007, the Nation of Yahweh is still active. Its members also claim to have abandoned their past racism and the leader's daughter has apparently stated that all people are children of God. An attorney who is also a member of the group, Wendelyn Rush, insists that their current war with the U.S. government is a non-violent verbal battle. The group is currently spread throughout the US and is no longer concentrated in one location (formerly Miami-Dade County, Florida, USA). They claim that their present literature downplays and has nearly erased all past racism.\n\nThe Nation of Yahweh is perhaps best known nationally for its purchase of infomercial time. The Nation airs a weekly half-hour program on stations across the United States, usually on weekends during little-watched early morning hours, that combines Biblical study along with discussion of the Nation itself.\n\nThe Yahweh ben Yahweh group appeared in the news again in 2012 after \"Michael the Black Man\" (real name Maurice Woodside), a former member of the group who is now a conservative activist, was invited to speak at a rally for Rick Santorum's campaign during which he said that Democrats were akin to Nazis. Woodside has been accused of several murders and other violent crimes over the years but has never been convicted. Woodside has since become a vocal Donald Trump supporter, but continues to defend Yahweh ben Yahweh and the Nation's beliefs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2941578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2941578", "title": "Neoliberalism (international relations)", "text": "Neoliberalism (international relations)\n\nIn the study of international relations, neoliberalism refers to a school of thought which believes that states are, or at least should be, concerned first and foremost with absolute gains rather than relative gains to other states. Neoliberalism is a revised version of liberalism.\n\nAlongside neorealism, neoliberalism is one of the two most influential contemporary approaches to international relations; the two perspectives have dominated international relations theory for the last three decades.\n\nNeoliberal international relations thinkers often employ game theory to explain why states do or do not cooperate; since their approach tends to emphasize the possibility of mutual wins, they are interested in institutions which can arrange jointly profitable arrangements and compromises.\n\nNeoliberalism is a response to neorealism; while not denying the anarchic nature of the international system, neoliberals argue that its importance and effect has been exaggerated. The neoliberal argument is focused on neorealists' alleged underestimation of \"the varieties of cooperative behavior possible within ... a decentralized system.\" Both theories, however, consider the state and its interests as the central subject of analysis; neoliberalism may have a wider conception of what those interests \"are\".\n\nNeoliberalism argues that even in an anarchic system of autonomous rational states, cooperation can emerge through the cultivation of mutual trust and the building of norms, regimes and institutions.\n\nIn terms of the scope of international relations theory and foreign interventionism, the debate between Neoliberalism and Neorealism is an intra-paradigm one, as both theories are positivist and focus mainly on the state system as the primary unit of analysis.\n\nRobert Keohane and Joseph Nye have been considered the founders of the neoliberal school of thought; Keohane's book \"After Hegemony\" is a classic of the genre. Other major influences are the hegemonic stability theory of Stephen Krasner and the work of Charles P. Kindleberger, among others.\n\nRobert O. Keohane and Joseph S. Nye, in response to neorealism, develop an opposing theory they dub \"Complex interdependence.\" Robert Keohane and Joseph Nye explain, \"... complex interdependence sometimes comes closer to reality than does realism.\" In explaining this, Keohane and Nye cover the three assumptions in realist thought: First, states are coherent units and are the dominant actors in international relations; second, force is a usable and effective instrument of policy; and finally, the assumption that there is a hierarchy in international politics.\n\nThe heart of Keohane and Nye's argument is that in international politics there are, in fact, multiple channels that connect societies exceeding the conventional Westphalian system of states. This manifests itself in many forms ranging from informal governmental ties to multinational corporations and organizations. Here they define their terminology; interstate relations are those channels assumed by realists; \"transgovernmental\" relations occur when one relaxes the realist assumption that states act coherently as units; \"transnational\" applies when one removes the assumption that states are the only units. It is through these channels that political exchange occurs, not through the limited interstate channel as championed by realists.\n\nSecondly, Keohane and Nye argue that there is not, in fact, a hierarchy among issues, meaning that not only is the martial arm of foreign policy not the supreme tool by which to carry out a state's agenda, but that there are a multitude of different agendas that come to the forefront. The line between domestic and foreign policy becomes blurred in this case, as realistically there is no clear agenda in interstate relations.\n\nFinally, the use of military force is not exercised when complex interdependence prevails. The idea is developed that between countries in which a complex interdependence exists, the role of the military in resolving disputes is negated. However, Keohane and Nye go on to state that the role of the military is in fact important in that \"alliance's political and military relations with a rival bloc.\"\n\nRichard Ned Lebow states that the failure of neorealism lies in its \"institutionalist\" ontology, whereas the neorealist thinker Kenneth Waltz states, \"the creators [of the system] become the creatures of the market that their activity gave rise to.\" This critical failure, according to Lebow, is due to the realists' inability \"to escape from the predicament of anarchy.\" Or rather, the assumption that states do not adapt and will respond similarly to similar constraints and opportunities.\n\nNorman Angell, a classical London School of Economics liberal, had held: \"We cannot ensure the stability of the present system by the political or military preponderance of our nation or alliance by imposing its will on a rival.\"\n\nKeohane and Lisa L. Martin expound upon these ideas in the mid 1990s as a response to John J. Mearsheimer's \"The False Promise of International Institutions,\" where Mearsheimer purports that, \"institutions cannot get states to stop behaving as short-term power maximizers.\" In fact Mearsheimer's article is a direct response to the liberal-institutionalist movement created in response to neo-realism. The central point in Keohane and Martin's idea is that neo-realism insists that, \"institutions have only marginal effects ... [which] leaves [neo-realism] without a plausible account of the investments that states have made in such international institutions as the EU, NATO, GATT, and regional trading organizations.\" This idea is in keeping with the notion of complex interdependence. Moreover, Keohane and Martin argue that the fact that international institutions are created in response to state interests, that the real empirical question is \"knowing how to distinguish the effects of underlying conditions from those of the institutions themselves.\" The debate between the institutionalists and Mearsheimer is about whether institutions have an independent effect on state behavior, or whether they reflect great power interests that said powers employ to advance their respective interests.\n\nMearsheimer is concerned with 'inner-directed' institutions, which he states, \"seek to cause peace by influencing the behavior of the member states.\" In doing so he dismisses Keohane and Martin's NATO argument in favor of the example of the European Community and the International Energy Agency. According to Mearsheimer, NATO is an alliance that is interested in \"an outside state, or coalition of states, which the alliance aims to deter, coerce, or defeat in war.\" Mearsheimer reasons that since NATO is an alliance it has special concerns. He concedes this point to Keohane and Martin. However, Mearsheimer reasons, \"to the extent that alliances cause peace, they do so by deterrence, which is straightforward realist behavior.\" In essence, Mearsheimer believes that Keohane and Martin \"are shifting the terms of the debate, and making realist claims under the guise of institutionalism.\n\nMearsheimer criticizes Martin's argument that the European Community (EC) enhances the prospects of cooperation, particularly in the case of Great Britain's sanctioning of Argentina during the Falklands war, where it was able to secure the cooperation of other European states by linking the issues at hand to the EC. Mearsheimer purports that the United States was not a member of the EC and yet the US and Britain managed to cooperate on sanctions, creating an ad hoc alliance which effected change. \"... Issue linkage was a commonplace practice in world politics well before institutions came on the scene; moreover, Britain and other European states could have used other diplomatic tactics to solve the problem. After all, Britain and America managed to cooperate on sanctions even though the United States was not a member of the EC.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "6224456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6224456", "title": "Ploughshares Fund", "text": "Ploughshares Fund\n\nPloughshares Fund is a public grantmaking foundation that supports initiatives to prevent the spread and use of nuclear weapons, and to prevent conflicts that could lead to their use. Ploughshares Fund is a 501(c)(3) foundation that pools contributions from individuals, families and foundations. Ploughshares Fund enables individual contributors to pool resources and provide support for initiatives to prevent the spread and use of nuclear weapons. With over $100 million awarded in grants since its founding in 1981, Ploughshares Fund is the largest US philanthropic foundation focused exclusively on nuclear weapons.\n\nConcerned about the world’s burgeoning nuclear arsenals, San Francisco philanthropist and activist Sally Lilienthal founded the organization in 1981. Since it was founded, Ploughshares has made grants totaling nearly $100 million to hundreds of people and organizations around the world. Sally Lilienthal died in October 2006, at the age of 87, while still serving as Ploughshares Fund's president. In 2008, the Board of Directors appointed Joseph Cirincione as Ploughshares Fund's president, the same year that the organization opened an office in Washington, DC.\n\nPloughshares Fund’s grantmaking is focused on the following issues:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27885464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27885464", "title": "Public Security Police Force of Macau", "text": "Public Security Police Force of Macau\n\nThe Public Security Police Force (; , abbreviated ) is the non-criminal police department of Macau and a branch of the Macau Security Force. Originally known at first as the Macau Police (), the force went through several name changes before taking on its current name. The PSP celebrates its foundation on March 14, 1691.\n\nDue to the one country, two systems perspective, the mainland authorities may not interfere Macau's local law enforcement affairs. CPSPM is completely independent from the jurisdiction of the mainland's Public Security Ministry.\n\nLaw enforcement was first taken by the military stationed in Portuguese Macau, with Portuguese Navy troops at first before the Portuguese Army stepped in to take over internal security duties on March 14, 1691. A small garrison was raised to conduct police work at first, but had the majority of its duties taken over by Portuguese India-based soldiers in 1784. On May 13, 1810, the Prince Regent Battalion was created to be the colony's police force, consisting of four companies of 400 men. Two companies were based at the Customs House while the other two was based at Fortaleza do Monte (Mount Fortress).\n\nOn March 3, 1841, a royal decree had approved the creation of a permanent police force, which was staffed by Macanese citizens who were not part of the battalion. A group of night watchmen called the Guard's Bazar was created by Bernardino de Senna Fernandes with some assistance from local Macanese Chinese to patrol residential areas at night, which was recognized as a legal law enforcement body by the Portuguese Macau government. With an initial count of 50 men, it was soon raised with 100 men. In 1861, the governor passed an ordinance that renamed the force from Macau Police to the Macau Police Force (Abbreviation: CPM; ). In 1862, the CPM was given the power to patrol the colony's waters through Ordinance No. 56, November 18, 1862 under 1868 when the role was assigned to the Macau Port Police (Abbreviation: PPM; ). Moors were recruited into the ranks in 1873 with a Moor section established on August 9, 1874.\n\nGovernor Eugenio Carlos Correa da Silva dissolved the CPM on January 18, 1879, replacing it with the Macau Police Guard (Abbreviation: GPM; ). They were based at the Barracks San Francisco as part of the GPM's establishment. In 1912, Provincial Ordinance no. 106, June 10, 1912 had called for the GPM to be led by a county administrator, being assisted by both staff and police officers alike. Daniel Ferreira, the county administrator in 1914, created the police force's civil branch with a strength of 300 officers. A security police branch was established in 1916, with a strength of 304 officers paid with a salary of 7,810 MOP.\n\nThe post of Police Commissioner of Public Security in Macau was made separate from the colony administrator under Executive Order 533 in 1937, with the creation of the PSP (modelled after the Portuguese Homeland PSP) at first under the command of a captain or a lieutenant in the Portuguese Army. The PSP's police band was created in 1951 under Luis Augusto de Matos Paletti to serve as the force's ceremonial unit in official events. A social recovery center was created in 1961 to help take care of troubled people such as orphans, homeless or foreign nationals living in Macau without any permanent residence. By May 1968, the PSP served as a military organization under the Portuguese colonial government. Female officers were first recruited by the PSP on October 7, 1974 when 42 candidates were accepted into service. Decree-Law No. 705/75 of December 27, 1975 placed the PSP under the Security Forces of Macau alongside the Marine Police, Fiscal Police and the Fire Department.\n\nFurther restructuring of the PSP took place in 1981 when Decree No. 37/81/M was passed to amend the earlier Decree No. 22/77/M. It established the PSP's divisions consisting of Command, Division of Police Macau Police Division of the Isles, Police Tactical Intervention Unit, Division of Transit Services, Migration and Identity, Music Band, Center for Recovery and Social Welfare. The PSP's Police School was created on July 18, 1982 with Portuguese officers serving as the institution's first instructors. Another round of restructuring took place on February 8, 1986 with the passing of Decree-Law No. 13/86/M, which created additional PSP divisions, consisting of Command, General Staff and Command organs, Divisions of Police and General Support, Organs Support Services and Education.\n\nIn 1995, the PSP went through a third phrase of restructuring through the passing of Decree-Law No. 3/95/M, defining its overall structure consisting of Command and Control Bodies, Department of Resource Management, Department Information, Operations Department, Migration Service, Transit Department, Macau Police Department, Islands Police Departments, Police Tactical Intervention Unit, Training Command, Police Academy and the Music Band. Portuguese-born PSP officers began leaving their posts also at the same year, being replaced by Macanese-born PSP officers.\n\nIn 1999, Lieutenant Colonel Manuel António Meireles de Carvalho passed on command of the PSP to its new commander, Superintendent General Jose Proença Branco. With the transfer of sovereignty on December 20 of that year, the PSP changed its emblem, replacing the former Portuguese coat of arms with that of the Emblem of Macau.\n\nThe PSP's Police School moved its location from its old headquarters at the Center for Social Recovery and began work on the Academy of Security Forces at Coloane after the People's Liberation Army Macau Garrison was created in Macau in May 2000.\n\nSuperintendent General Jose Proenca Branco was replaced by Superintendent Law Siu Peng after former Macau Chief Executive Edmund Ho Hau Wah on September 17, 2001 passed Decree No. 66/2001.\n\nThe PSPFM's credibility suffered in the 2007 Macau labour protest when a bystander was injured from a bullet fired by PSPM officers as warning shots to break up protests.\n\nThe PSPFM announced that several of its officers, including a retired officer, arrested during an anti-extortion operation.\n\nAll marked vehicles employed by the PSP have an all blue finish with the seal of the force. Previously, all of them had a white finish.\n\nSome of the vehicles used or are currently in use:\n\n\nThe PSPFM is currently organized according to the following structure as of 2016:\n\n\nThe PSP is commanded by a superintendent-general, who is assisted by two superintendents.\n\nOther positions or offices in the PSP organization includes:\n\nIndividual departments are often headed by a commissioner.\n\nThe various categories, ranks and respective main functions are:\n\n\n\nThe rank insignia of the CPSP follows the generic model of the Portuguese Public Security Police. Insignia is placed in dark blue epaulets for all ranks, except those of superintendent and superintendent general which use instead red epaulets.\n\nThe insignia for basic ranks consist in silver chevrons: two for constable, three for constable first class and four for principal constable. The insignia for sub-chief consists in a silver stripe. The insignia for chiefs and commissioners consist of a laurel branch and a number of PSP stars (six points silver stars with the \"SP\" monogram in the center): one for chief, two for sub-commissioner and three (in inverted triangle) for commissioner. The insignia for intendents and superintendents consist of two crossed batons surrounded by laurel wreaths and a number of PSP stars: two for sub-intendent, three (in inverted triangle) for intendent and superintendent and four for superintendent general.\n\nThe standard issue sidearm for regular Macau patrolmen is the Smith & Wesson Model 10 revolver.\n\nDetectives are armed with the shorter Colt Detective Special and policemen who work for special units such as Police Intervention Tactical Unit (UTIP) or the Special Operation Group (GOE) are issued with the Glock 19 semi-auto pistol. The GOE may also equip with SIG Sauer P226 and SIG Sauer P228 if meet certain requirements.\n\nFor long arms, the standard sub-machine guns of Macau Police are Heckler & Koch MP5, Brügger & Thomet MP9, Remington 870 shotguns along with Federal M201-Z tear gas launchers are also one of the regular equipment.\n\nThe UTIP and GOE would use small arms unique to the Portuguese FBP m/948, such as the SIG SG 552 short assault rifle、Franchi SPAS-15 semi-automatic shotgun and the SIG-Sauer SSG 3000 sniper rifle. They also use Smith & Wesson-made 37 mm gas launchers, long batons and Flash-ball and taser for less-than-lethal to control riots.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39528053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39528053", "title": "Rape during the liberation of France", "text": "Rape during the liberation of France\n\nRape during the liberation of France is documented both during and after the advance of United States forces across France against Nazi Germany in later stages of World War II.\n\nThe invasion of Normandy in June and a second invasion in the south in August, put over two million front line and support troops of the Western Allies into France in 1944.\n\nThe Liberation of Paris followed on 25 August. Except for German forces penned in the south-west (e.g., around Bordeaux) or in ports, the majority of German troops were pushed back to the Siegfried Line by the end of 1944. After the war, the repatriation for demobilisation of the troops took time. Even in 1946, months after VE-day there were still about 1.5 million troops in Europe. The housing and management of the thousands of troops awaiting embarkation on a ship for home was a problem.\n\n\"Life\" magazine reported the widespread view among American troops of France as \"a tremendous brothel inhabited by 40 million hedonists who spent all their time eating, drinking, making love and in general having a hell of a good time\".\n\nBy the late summer of 1944, soon after the invasion of Normandy, women in Normandy began to complain about rapes by American soldiers. Hundreds of cases were reported.\n\nIn 1945, after the end of the war in Europe, Le Havre was filled with American servicemen awaiting return to the States. A Le Havre citizen wrote to the mayor that the people of Le Havre were \"attacked, robbed, run over both on the street and in our houses\" and \"This is a regime of terror, imposed by bandits in uniform.\" A coffeehouse owner from Le Havre testified \"We expected friends who would not make us ashamed of our defeat. Instead, there came only incomprehension, arrogance, incredibly bad manners and the swagger of conquerors.\" Such behavior also was common in Cherbourg. One resident stated that \"With the Germans, the men had to camouflage themselves—but with the Americans, we had to hide the women.\"\n\nU.S. troops committed 208 rapes and about 30 murders in the department of Manche. French men also raped women perceived as collaborators with the Germans.\n\nA brothel, Blue and Gray Corral, was set up near the village of St. Renan in September 1944 by Maj. Gen. Charles H. Gerhardt, commander of the infantry division that landed at Omaha Beach, partly to counter a wave of rape accusations against G.I.s. (It was shut down after a mere five hours in order to prevent civilians in the United States from finding out about a military run brothel). \n\nThe Free French Forces high command sent a letter of complaint to the Supreme Commander Allied Expeditionary Force General Dwight D. Eisenhower. He gave his commanders orders to take action against all allegations of murder, rape, assault, robbery and other crimes. In August 1945, Pierre Voisin, mayor of Le Havre urged Colonel Thomas Weed, U.S. commander in the region, to set up brothels outside Le Havre. However, U.S. commanders refused. \n\n130 of the 153 troops disciplined for rape by the Army were African American. Military courts sentenced African American soldiers to more severe punishment than white American soldiers: U.S. forces executed 29 soldiers for rape, 25 of them African American. Many convictions against African Americans were, however, based on flimsy evidence. For example, Marie Lepottevin identified William Downs only because he was \"much larger\" than the other soldiers, despite the crime taking place in near darkness.\n\nAccording to Alice Kaplan, an American historian of France and chair of the Department of French at Yale University, the U.S. military tolerated rape of French women less than that of German women. She argued that the number of rapes is well documented and is less than that of some other armies during that era, writing that \"Nine hundred and four American soldiers were tried for rape in Europe, and even if the actual numbers were much higher, they do not compare with a terrible legacy of World War II-era rapes\" committed, for example, by the Japanese in Nanking, by Germans in the German-occupied areas, by the French-Moroccans in Italy and by the Soviet soldiers across Eastern Europe and Germany. J. Robert Lilly, Regents professor of sociology and criminology at Northern Kentucky University, reported in \"Taken by Force: Rape and American GIs in Europe in World War II\" his estimate that 14,000 rapes were committed by U.S. soldiers in France, Germany and the United Kingdom between 1942 and 1945. More specifically, Lilly estimated that U.S. servicemen committed around 3,500 rapes in France between June 1944 and the end of the war.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2576646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2576646", "title": "Ratusz", "text": "Ratusz\n\nA ratusz () (; , \"Ratusha\") is a historic administrative building in countries that adopted the Magdeburg rights such as the Holy Roman Empire, Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth and others. It was distinguished with a bell tower (lookout or a clock tower). Unlike a regular city hall which may or may not have any specific architectural compositions, ratusz (rathaus) always consisted of a building with a tower.\n\nRathaus was primarily designated as a city hall, traditionally built in the centre of a town or in the middle of a town square or more common market square (freedom of trade as the main goal of Magdeburg rights). Although the old ratusz can still maintain the function of a seat of local government, frequently it is separated from the contemporary city government, the administrative building housing the town council, and often serves as a museum of local history (for example in Ivano-Frankivsk and Tarnów among many others).\n\nProminent examples of a historic ratusz can be found in at least 82 Polish cities. Some of them date back to the mid-13th century, like the ratusz in Kalisz. The oldest tower still standing was erected in 1274 in Toruń while the actual building with 365 windows comes from the 14th century. The ratusz in Zamość, built during the Renaissance in Poland, is one of the highest achievements of Renaissance architecture anywhere in the country. It was intentionally placed in the corner of the town square not to outshine the nearby Zamoyski Palace of the city's owners, which it did anyway, once the imposing Baroque staircase was added in the 17th century. The ratusz in Poznań, dating from the mid-16th century, has a clock with billy goats butting heads, which attracts hundreds of spectators every day in tourist season. Throughout the centuries many Polish town halls have been damaged in foreign invasions, such as the ratusz in Sandomierz, with city rights since 1286, meticulously renovated before being turned into a museum. In the royal city of Kraków, the historic ratusz, built of brick and mortar in the centre of Main Square, originally in 1316, has been torn down not by the occupiers, but by the Cracovians themselves in 1820 because it was not considered pretty enough. What remains of it is the massive town-hall tower, a prominent example of Polish Gothic architecture.\n\nA considerable number of heritage city halls became historical museums in the 20th century, including the ratusz in Toruń (Toruń Regional Museum or \"Muzeum Okręgowe\" in Polish), with stained glass and gingerbread divisions, in Poznań (\"Muzeum Okręgowe\"), with a Chopin division, in Lublin (\"Muzeum Okręgowe\"), Siedlce (\"Muzeum Okręgowe\"), Białystok (\"Muzeum Podlaskie\"), Gdańsk (\"Muzeum Historii Miasta\"), Sandomierz (\"Muzeum Okręgowe\"), and Szczecin (\"Muzeum Historii Miasta Szczecina\"). Others still serve as seats of local government, and sometimes also as civil wedding halls and art galleries, restaurants, and cultural centres. These include Zamość, Kielce, Zielona Góra (also a civil wedding hall, restaurant, and winery), Kętrzyn (also a wedding hall and cultural centre), and Kołobrzeg (also a wedding hall, cultural centre, and gallery of modern art).\n\nThe Polish word \"ratusz\" to describe a city hall was most likely derived from the German \"rathaus\" (council house) sometime during the Middle Ages. The influence also serves as a metonym for the burmistrz (burgomaster, or mayor), derived from the German \"bürgermeister\".\n\nSince 1980, the Polish Tourist and Sightseeing Society (PTTK) offers a badge for tourists interested in organizing group excursions across the country with the aim of visiting the maximum number of ratusz towns and cities. The PTTK hands out a special booklet where stamps can be collected for the gold badge awarded for visiting a minimum of twenty ratusz outlets.\n"}
{"id": "43486273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43486273", "title": "Samuel Mann", "text": "Samuel Mann\n\nSamuel Mann is a New Zealand computer scientist, with interests in computer science education and sustainability. He is a full Professor at Otago Polytechnic. He has published widely on sustainable practice, both in computing and more generally to apply to any discipline. Mann was educated at the University of Otago where he studied botany and geography, before completing a PhD in Information Science.\n\nMann developed the term \"sustainable practitioner\". In 2007 under Mann's guidance, Otago Polytechnic committed to the strategy that \"every graduate may think and act as a sustainable practitioner\". Initiatives have included a Living Campus, and Sustainable Community Enterprise.\n\nMann is building an oral archive of conversations with sustainable practitioners. This is also broadcast on Otago Access Radio and podcast as Sustainable Lens. The goal is to create a searchable archive of conversations with people from many different fields who are applying their skills to a sustainable future.\n\nSince 2011 Mann has served as Chair of Computing and Information Technology Information and Education and Research NZ (CITRENZ). In that role he oversaw the development of a new suite of computing programmes for all New Zealand polytechnics.\n\nIn 2009 Mann was awarded the Beeby Fellowship. The Beeby Fellowship is a joint initiative between the New Zealand Council for Educational Research and the New Zealand National Commission for UNESCO.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7265719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7265719", "title": "Scientists and Engineers for America", "text": "Scientists and Engineers for America\n\nScientists and Engineers for America (SEA) was an organization focused on promoting sound science in American government, and supporting candidates who understand science and its applications. SEA was formed on September 27, 2006, and describes itself as non-partisan.\n\"SEA appears to have ceased active operations in October 2011. The following note was posted on SEA's Facebook page on October 28, 2011, by former SEA Program Director Brie Welzer:\" \n\n\"The remainder of this page describes SEA when it was still active.\"\n\nSEA is organized as a 501(c)(3) organization, and represents a reorganization of Scientists and Engineers for Change, an organization founded in 2004 to support the election of John Kerry. Its current executive director is Tom Price. SEA operates a wiki site called the Science, Health And Related Policies (SHARP) Network, which allows members to track and contribute information on Congressional representatives, candidates, and science policy issues. SEA is associated with a 501(c)(4) organization known as the SEA Action Fund, whose president is geneticist Michael Stebbins.\n\nA bill of rights which outlines the principles of the organization states:\nThe organization's mission statement states:\n\nThe Science, Health and Related Policies Network is a wiki to track congressional representatives, senators, and candidates as well as presidential candidates.\n\nScientists and Engineers for America organized a coalition of 19 science organizations to submit a set of 7 questions to all the candidates for United States Congress. The coalition includes groups such as the American Association for the Advancement of Science, National Academy of Sciences, and Science Debate 2008.\n\nThe Campaign Education and Training project is a workshop aimed at training science-oriented professionals to run for public office.\nAlong with the workshop, SEA also hosts an online advice column called Campaign Lab for scientists to ask political experts on different aspects of running for political office.\n\nSEA chapters provide a way for students and members of the scientific community to influence the interface between science and politics. These chapters develop the means for both current and future scientists and engineers to influence the policy arena and expand the forum through which SEA involves scientists and engineers in the political and civic process.\n\nAmong others, the SEA Board of Advisers includes noted Nobel Laureates such as:\n\nSoon after its foundation, the organization was accused of partisanship by several conservative media outlets. An editorial in The Wall Street Journal criticised the organization for seeming to stifle scientific dissent: \n\nIn a rebuttal posted on the SEA website, founding executive director Michael Brown stated: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "55899005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55899005", "title": "South African Musicians' Alliance", "text": "South African Musicians' Alliance\n\nThe South African Musicians' Alliance (SAMA) is a union, artist collective, and resistance movement formed by musicians in South Africa who opposed the censorship and suppression of the apartheid regime. The alliance was formed sometime before 1983. SAMA musicians flouted the government's imposed racial segregation and restrictions on music content. Three of SAMA's priorities were freedom of speech, freedom of movement, and freedom of association.\n\nOne prominent spokesperson of the organisation was pianist Rashid Lanie.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39539714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39539714", "title": "Students Union of Bhutan", "text": "Students Union of Bhutan\n\nStudents Union of Bhutan (\"\") is a political human rights organization formed by Bhutanese students, founded on March 23, 1988. The purpose of the organisation is to increase the participation of students in Bhutanese society, and to promote the ideals of democracy and freedom of individuals. The union was formed at a time for when it was unlawful to form any kind of association or union within the kingdom. The Students Union of Bhutan was forced to operate from outside of the country following government crackdowns and arrest of some of its activists in late 1989, however since the democratization of the country spearheaded by Jigme Khesar Namgyel Wangchuck, the union's profile has been diminished.\n\nThe Students Union of Bhutan's origins grew from the \"Nepali Literary Society\", the organisation was considered informal and underground, and had a membership of 25 activists. Upon founding in 1988, the society distributed pamphlets and other printed articles highlighting state-sponsored discrimination and atrocities in regards to Bhutanese refugees. The union keeps close contact with other human rights organisations in Bhutan, and has established schools for refugees of Nepali origin residing in Bhutan. Since 1990, a monthly printed publication entitled \"Bhutan Focus\" has been distributed.\n"}
{"id": "6810510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6810510", "title": "The Triple Revolution", "text": "The Triple Revolution\n\n\"The Triple Revolution\" was an open memorandum sent to U.S. President Lyndon B. Johnson and other government figures on March 22, 1964. Drafted under the auspices of the Center for the Study of Democratic Institutions, it was signed by an array of noted social activists, professors, and technologists who identified themselves as the Ad Hoc Committee on the Triple Revolution. The chief initiator of the proposal was W. H. \"Ping\" Ferry, at that time a vice-president of CSDI, basing it in large part on the ideas of the futurist Robert Theobald.\n\nThe statement identified three revolutions underway in the world: the \"cybernation revolution\" of increasing automation; the \"weaponry revolution\" of mutually assured destruction; and the \"human rights revolution\". It discussed primarily the cybernation revolution. The committee claimed that machines would usher in \"a system of almost unlimited productive capacity\" while continually reducing the number of manual laborers needed, and increasing the skill needed to work, thereby producing increasing levels of unemployment. It proposed that the government should ease this transformation through large-scale public works, low-cost housing, public transit, electrical power development, income redistribution, union representation for the unemployed, and government restraint on technology deployment.\n\nMartin Luther King, Jr.'s final Sunday sermon, \"Remaining Awake Through a Great Revolution,\" delivered days before his assassination, explicitly references the thesis of \"The Triple Revolution\":\nIn Harlan Ellison's 1967 anthology \"Dangerous Visions\", Philip José Farmer's story \"Riders of the Purple Wage\" uses the Triple Revolution document as the premise of a future society, in which the \"purple wage\" of the title is a guaranteed income dole on which most of the population lives. At the 1968 World Science Fiction Convention in San Francisco, Farmer delivered a lengthy Guest of Honor speech in which he called for the founding of a grassroots activist organization called REAP which would work for implementation of the Ad Hoc Committee's recommendations.\n\nLooking back on the proposal in his 2008 book, Daniel Bell wrote: \n\nIn his 2015 book \"Rise of the Robots\", Martin Ford claims The Triple Revolution's predictions of steady decline in future employment were not wrong, but rather premature. He cites \"Seven Deadly Trends\" that began in the 1970s-1980s and by the mid 2010s appeared set to continue:\nAccording to Ford, the 1960s were part of what in retrospect seems like a golden age for labor in the United States, when productivity and wages rose together in near lockstep, and unemployment was low. But after about 1980, wages began stagnating while productivity continued to rise. Labor's share of the economic output began to decline. Ford describes the role that automation and information technology play in these trends, and how new technologies including narrow AI threaten to destroy jobs faster than displaced workers can be retrained for new jobs, before automation takes the new jobs as well. This includes many job categories, such as in transportation, that were never threatened by automation before. According to a 2013 study, about 47% of US jobs are susceptible to automation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49994790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49994790", "title": "Uganda Registration Services Bureau", "text": "Uganda Registration Services Bureau\n\nThe Uganda Registration Services Bureau (URSB) is a semi-autonomous government agency, established by Act of Parliament in 1998 in Uganda. URSB is responsible for civil registrations (including marriages and divorces but not including births, adoptions, or deaths), business registrations (setups and liquidations), registration of patents and intellectual property rights, and any other registrations required by law.\n\nThe headquarters of URSB are located at Georgian House, 5 George Street, in Kampala, the capital and largest city of Uganda. The coordinates of the main office are 0°19'04.0\"N, 32°34'39.0\"E (Latitude:0.317768; Longitude:32.577508). In addition, URSB maintains branch offices at the following locations:\n\n\nIn 2015, URSB was awarded \"global recognition for improved service delivery, client satisfaction, innovation and leadership\", by Otherways Management Association Club, a France-based organisation.\n\nOne of the priority areas that URSB is working on is establishing a national registry of movable assets, also known as a \"chattels registry\", to enable micro, small, and medium businesses to borrow from the formal banking sector, which requires collateral.\n\nIn February 2016, URSB signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the Directorate of Public Prosecutions and the Uganda Financial Intelligence Authority. The MoU was intended to ease the sharing of information between the three government agencies and reduce government bureaucracy. The ultimate goal is to cut down on the concealment of assets and illegal money laundering.\n\nAccording to URSB's website on 30 March 2016, the members of the board of directors included the following:\n\n\nThe following constituted URSB's senior management team as of 30 March 2016\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12228177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12228177", "title": "Unicameral Youth Legislature", "text": "Unicameral Youth Legislature\n\nThe Unicameral Youth Legislature, formerly the Unicameral Youth Conference is a four-day legislative simulation in Nebraska, US in which high school students take on the role of lawmakers. Student senators sponsor bills, conduct committee hearings, debate legislation and discover the unique process of the nation's only unicameral.\n\nThe Unicameral Youth Legislature gives behind-the-scenes access to students who have an interest in public office, government, politics, law, public policy, debate or public speaking. Students will learn about the inner workings of the Legislature directly from senators, staff and lobbyists. Bill topics are based on legislation considered during the most recent legislative session. From driving laws to the death penalty, topics selected for the legislature are diverse and engaging.\n\nLegislative activities are conducted at the Nebraska State Capitol Building in the historic Warner Chamber, which was home to the Nebraska Senate until the state consolidated to a one-house legislature in 1937.\n\nThe youth legislature is organized by the Nebraska State 4-H Office and the University of Nebraska-Lincoln Extension Office youth development program. The Clerk of the Nebraska Legislature, through the Unicameral Information Office, serves as a technical consultant for the Unicameral Youth Legislature.\n"}
{"id": "448413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=448413", "title": "United States Institute of Peace", "text": "United States Institute of Peace\n\nThe United States Institute of Peace (USIP) is an American federal institution tasked with promoting conflict resolution and prevention worldwide. It provides research, analysis, and training to individuals in diplomacy, mediation, and other peace-building measures. \n\nFollowing years of proposals for a national \"peace academy\", the USIP was established in 1984 by Congressional legislation signed into law by President Ronald Reagan. It is officially nonpartisan and independent, receiving funding only through congressional appropriation to prevent outside influence. The Institute is governed by a bipartisan Board of Directors with fifteen members——which must include the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of State, and the President of the National Defense University——who are appointed by the President and confirmed by the Senate. \n\nThe Institute's headquarters is in the Foggy Bottom neighborhood of Washington, D.C., situated at the northwest corner of the National Mall near the Lincoln Memorial and Vietnam Veterans Memorial. It currently employs around 300 personnel and has trained more than 65,000 professionals since its inception.\n\nThe United States Institute of Peace Act, passed in 1984, calls for the Institute to \"serve the people and the\nGovernment through the widest possible range of education and training, basic and applied research opportunities, and peace information services on the means to promote international peace and the resolution of conflicts among the nations and peoples of the world without recourse to violence\".\n\nThe Institute carries out this mission by operating programs in conflict zones, conducting research and analysis, operating a training academy and public education center, providing grants for research and fieldwork, convening conferences and workshops, and building the academic and policy fields of international conflict management and peacebuilding. On many of its projects, the Institute works in partnership with nongovernmental organizations, higher and secondary educational institutions, international organizations, local organizations, and U.S. government agencies, including the State Department and the Department of Defense.\n\nPresident Ronald Reagan signed the United States Institute of Peace Act in 1984.\n\nSpurred by a grassroots movement in the 1970s and 1980s, Senator Jennings Randolph joined Senators Mark Hatfield and Spark Matsunaga and Rep. Dan Glickman in an effort to form a national peace academy akin to the national military academies. The 1984 act creating USIP followed from a 1981 recommendation of a commission formed to examine the peace academy issue appointed by President Jimmy Carter and chaired by Matsunaga.\n\nRobert F. Turner was the Institute's first president and CEO, holding that position from 1986 to 1987. He was followed by Ambassador Samuel W. Lewis (1987–1992), Ambassador Richard H. Solomon, (1992–2012), and former Congressman Jim Marshall (2012–2013). Kristin Lord served as acting President (2013–2014). Nancy Lindborg was sworn in as president on February 2, 2015. In its early years, the Institute first sought to build the field of international conflict management and peacebuilding. In a 2011 letter of support for USIP, the Association of Professional Schools of International Affairs noted that this analytical work has \"helped to build the conflict management and resolution field, both as an area of study and as an applied science\".\n\nUnder Solomon's leadership, the Institute expanded its operations in conflict zones and its training programs, initially in the Balkans and, after September 11, 2001, in Afghanistan and Iraq. It also became the home of several congressionally mandated blue-ribbon commissions, including the Iraq Study Group, the Congressional Commission on the Strategic Posture of the United States, and the Quadrennial Defense Review Independent Panel. Today, the Institute conducts active programs in Afghanistan, Iraq, Libya, Pakistan, Sudan, South Sudan, and elsewhere.\n\nIn 1996, Congress authorized the Navy to transfer jurisdiction of the federal land—a portion of its Potomac Annex facility on what has been known as Navy Hill—to become the site of the permanent USIP headquarters, across the street from the National Mall at 23rd Street and Constitution Avenue NW, in Washington, D.C. Prior to its construction, the Institute leased office space in downtown Washington. Construction of the headquarters building concluded in 2011.\n\nUSIP is funded annually by the U.S. Congress. For fiscal year 2012 Congress provided $39 million. Occasionally, USIP receives funds transferred from government agencies, such as the Department of State, USAID, and the Department of Defense. By law, USIP is prohibited from receiving private gifts and contributions for its program activities. The restriction on private fundraising was lifted for the public-private partnership to construct the USIP headquarters.\n\nAn op-ed in the \"Wall Street Journal\" on February 16, 2011, by Republican congressman Jason Chaffetz of Utah and former Democratic congressman Anthony Weiner of New York, attacked funding for USIP as part of the broader debate about federal spending. \"The USIP is a case study in how government waste thrives\", they wrote. \"The idea began during the Cold War as a modest proposal with $4 million in seed money. But the organization received government funding year after year essentially because it had been funded the year before—and because it had important allies.\"\n\nFormer U.S. Central Command Commander Anthony Zinni wrote an op-ed, published in the \"New York Times\" on March 7, 2011, in support of USIP. \"Congress would be hard-pressed to find an agency that does more with less. The institute's entire budget would not pay for the Afghan war for three hours, is less than the cost of a fighter plane, and wouldn't sustain even 40 American troops in Afghanistan for a year. Within the budget, peace-building is financed as part of national security programs, and is recognized as an important adjunct to conventional defense spending and diplomacy. The institute's share of the proposed international affairs budget, $43 million, is minuscule: less than one-tenth of 1 percent of the State Department's budget, and one-hundredth of 1 percent of the Pentagon's.\"\n\nOn February 17, 2011, the House of Representatives for the 112th U.S. Congress voted to eliminate all funding for the U.S. Institute of Peace in FY 2011 continuing resolution. Funding for the Institute was eventually restored by both the House and Senate on April 14, 2011, through the Department of Defense and Full-Year Continuing Appropriations Act of 2011.\n\nThe Institute's staff of more than 300 is split among its Washington headquarters, field offices, and temporary missions to conflict zones. The Institute is active in some 17 countries, and as of 2012 maintains field offices in Kabul, Afghanistan, and Baghdad, Iraq, as well as a presence in Islamabad, Pakistan.\n\nUSIP coordinates its work through five main centers:\n\n\nThe Institute is governed by a Board of Directors, with an equal number of Republican and Democratic directors appointed by the President of the United States and confirmed by the Senate. Nancy Lindborg is the current President of the Institute, having served in that role since 2015. She was preceded by Kristin Lord (Acting President 2013-2014), former congressman Jim Marshall (President 2012-2013), former senior State Department official and U.S. Ambassador to the Philippines Richard H. Solomon (President 1992-2012), former U.S. ambassador to Israel Samuel W. Lewis (President 1987-1988), and Robert F Turner (President 1986-1987).\n\n\nThe Peace Tech Lab is a 501(C)3 spun out of United States Institute of Peace in 2014. It created the Lab as a separate entity to further advance its core mission to prevent, mitigate, and reduce violent conflict around the world. The Lab continues USIP's work developing technology and media tools for peacebuilding. In real terms, the Lab brings together engineers, technologists, and data scientists from industry and academia, along with experts in peacebuilding from USIP, other government agencies, NGOs and the conflict zones. These experts collaborate to design, develop, and deploy new and existing technology tools for conflict management and peacebuilding.\n\nIn Iraq in 2007, USIP helped broker the initial peace agreement that is seen as the turning point in the war there. USIP experts were asked to assist the U.S. Army's 10th Mountain Division in the reconciliation effort in Mahmoudiya, located in what was known as \"the Triangle of Death\" in Iraq's western Anbar Province. USIP was seen as a neutral player that was able to convene Sunni tribal leaders, Iraq's Shiite government leaders, and senior members of the U.S. military. Soon after the meeting, attacks and casualties declined significantly. The agreement led to a reduction of the U.S. military presence there from a brigade-level unit of about 3,500 soldiers to a battalion-level unit of about 650. General David Petraeus, the senior commander in Iraq, noted that the turnabout was \"striking\". Petraeus also said that USIP \"is a great asset in developing stronger unity of effort between civilian and military elements of government\".\n\nThe U.S. government used USIP to help convene the bipartisan Iraq Study Group in 2006 that studied the conflict in Iraq and recommended ways forward. USIP facilitated the group's trip to Iraq and hosted several meetings of the group. According to USIP, the group's political neutrality made it an appropriate entity to host the group's sensitive deliberations. The effort was undertaken at the urging of several members of Congress with agreement of the White House. A final report was released to Congress, the White House, and the public on December 6, 2006.\n\nIn Fall 2008, U.S. Institute of Peace, the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum, and the American Academy of Diplomacy jointly convened the Genocide Prevention Task Force to \"spotlight genocide prevention as a national priority and to develop practical policy recommendations to enhance the capacity of the U.S. government to respond to emerging threats of genocide and mass atrocities\".\n\nThe 14-member task force, co-chaired by former Secretary of State Madeleine Albright and former Defense Secretary William Cohen, outlined \"a national blueprint to prevent genocide and mass atrocities\". In December 2008, the task force released its report \"Preventing Genocide: A Blueprint for U.S. Policymakers\" detailing its recommendations and guidelines. \"The Economist\" praised it as a \"report steeped in good sense\".\n\nOn August 4, 2011, U.S. President Barack Obama announced a proclamation suspending U.S. entry to individuals active in \"serious human rights and humanitarian law violations\" and called for the creation of an Atrocities Prevention Board to review, coordinate and develop an atrocity prevention and response policy, and incorporate recommendations provided by the Genocide Prevention Task Force.\n\nAhead of Sudan's April 2010 national elections (the first since 1986) and the January 2011 South Sudanese independence referendum, USIP staff traveled to some of the more unstable regions to help prepare people for the elections. Amid heightened tensions, USIP experts focused on improving cultural awareness, citizenship skills, and training Sudanese on electoral violence triggers—all critical steps to ensure that the polls did not turn violent. The elections and referendum were held with relatively no bloodshed and were widely deemed a success. Building upon USIP's successful electoral violence prevention training, USIP is implementing a series of violence prevention workshops throughout the country post-election and post-referendum.\n\n\"The Iran Primer: Power, Politics, and U.S. Policy\" \"offers a comprehensive but concise overview of Iran's politics, economy, military, foreign policy, and nuclear program\". It convenes 50 experts to discuss Iran's evolving relationship with the West and \"chronicles U.S.-Iran relations under six American presidents and probes five options for dealing with Iran\". \"The Iran Primer\" is edited by USIP staff member Robin Wright.\n\n\nThe institute has also served U.S. government officials and policymakers.\n\n\nIn March 2011, USIP moved into its permanent headquarters facility at the northwest corner of the National Mall in Washington, D.C. Designed by Moshe Safdie Architects and Buro Happold, the LEED-certified building aims to serve as symbol of America's commitment to peacebuilding. The building houses offices and staff support facilities, a library, a conference center, auditorium, classrooms, and a public education center. Officials broke ground for the new headquarters in June 2008 at a ceremony that included President George W. Bush, Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, and Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi.\n\nUSIP publishes a variety of topical newsletters, briefs, reports, guides, studies, testimony, and books related to peacebuilding and conflict management topics. It also maintains digital collections of peace agreements, oral histories, and information about truth commissions. The USIP headquarters is home to a public library that houses a collection of items related to peacebuilding, conflict management, and diplomacy. Its materials can be used on site or requested through interlibrary loan.\n\nSarah Diamond and Richard Hatch, writing in the July/August 1990 issue of leftist publication \"Z Magazine\", stated that the supposed peace research \"looks more like the study of new and potential means of aggression,\" through trade embargoes, austerity programs, and electoral intervention. When it was established in 1984, its board looked like a \"'who's who' of right-wing ideologues from academia and the Pentagon,\" and the director of the Central Intelligence Agency may assign officers and employees to the Institute. Nearly half its board played a role in Iran-contra operations. The first president was Robert F. Turner, who worked for the State Department arguing for increased aid to the Nicaraguan contras.\n\nLinguist and political critic Noam Chomsky described the USIP's decision to release the Trump administration’s 2018 National Defense Strategy on its website as a case where \"lacking a sense of irony, the bureaucracy is quite happy to caricature Orwell.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39963351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39963351", "title": "Ways That Are Dark", "text": "Ways That Are Dark\n\nWays That Are Dark: The Truth About China is a 1933 non-fiction book by Ralph Townsend which presents Townsend's observations on the state of then-contemporary China. The book is considered an anti-Chinese polemic.\n\nA harsh critique of Chinese society and culture, \"Ways That Are Dark\" was written at a time when China was in the grip of considerable civil strife. Townsend claimed that the source of China's problems lay in fundamental defects in the ethnic characteristics of the Chinese people. Although the book was a bestseller in the United States, it met with highly polarized reactions from its supporters and detractors. Though praised by some periodicals, it was denounced by missionaries and sinologists, including Owen Lattimore who condemned it as \"a general indictment of a whole race\". It was banned by the government of China.\n\nAfter World War II, the book fell into obscurity. It was reprinted in 1997 by the white nationalist publisher Barnes Review and subsequently gained renewed popularity in Japan in 2004 when a Japanese translation was published.\n\n\"Ways That Are Dark\" is based on its author's experience of living in China for more than one year. Townsend had worked as a journalist and educator in New York before joining the United States Foreign Service on 16 December 1930. He served as a vice-consul in Shanghai between 10 December 1931 and 9 January 1932 and then in Fuzhou until 1 March 1933. The book was released on 10 November 1933 by G. P. Putnam's Sons.\n\nIn his introduction, Townsend describes the book as \"an honest attempt to present the facts as they are, however unpleasant\" and a counterbalance to the \"maudlin sentiment\" and \"misinformation\" of other writers on China who have made \"fatuous attempts to sprinkle bright hopes over dark facts.\" He notes that while China's virtues will speak for themselves, \"in appraising a stranger with whom we are to deal, it is important to know his shortcomings\".\n\nIn the first two chapters he describes the atrocious conditions he witnessed in China. Shanghai is depicted as a squalid, noisy, and polluted den of crime, poverty, and disease, and yet still comparatively wealthy compared to the rest of the country. The interior of the country is difficult to access due to lack of infrastructure, is mostly unsafe for travel, and is wracked constantly by famine and starvation.\n\nTownsend had asserted in chapter one that the cause of China's present misery lies in the fundamental defects that exist in the ethnic characteristics of the Chinese people and in chapters three and four he explains what he believes these defects are. Townsend states that dishonesty is \"the most prominent characteristic in the Chinese mentality as opposed to our own\". Townsend gives many examples of him being lied to by Chinese employees, coolies, shopkeepers, and government officials, and notes that many other consuls were driven out of the service by this relentless and \"aimless lying, with each lie merely a pretext for another\". The other highly salient trait of the Chinese is their \"indifference to fellow suffering\". Through a large number of personal and second-hand anecdotes, Townsend argues that the Chinese may be the only people in the world who are completely unable to comprehend the basic human impulses of sympathy or gratitude toward other people. Because the Chinese feel no empathy toward others, they behave in an unbelievably sadistic and cruel fashion toward one another, and they view altruistic foreigners as targets to be mercilessly taken advantage of. Other traits Townsend identifies as being typically Chinese are cowardice, lust for money, lack of a sense of personal hygiene, lack of critical thinking skills, insincerity, and obsession with hollow rites. Townsend believes that these traits are as notable among China's leaders and educated strata as much as they are in the poor masses, and his analysis of historical documents leads him to believe that they are not a recent product of the present chaos, but rather are deeply ingrained traits of China's national character. He concludes that the \"outstanding characteristics\" of the Chinese people \"neither enable other peoples to deal satisfactorily with them, nor enable the Chinese to deal satisfactorily with themselves.\"\n\nIn chapters five and six Townsend discusses US-funded charitable organizations in China, especially missions. He points out that although the United States had given at least $160 million in philanthropy to China, these charities in China, even secular hospitals and schools, are generally preyed upon by the very Chinese people who the charitable workers seek to help. These charities are subject to rampant looting, arson, and murderous mob violence by Chinese people who their government refuses to prosecute. Much of this violence is incited by the anti-foreigner propaganda of the KMT, a party described as being \"worse than the Ku Klux Klan at its most degenerate stage\", and through US aid to China Townsend suggests that America is actually bankrolling propaganda against itself. Though the missionaries are sincere and hard-working, Townsend finds that they suffer from extreme delusion over the ultimate futility of their goal of reforming the Chinese. The missionaries, he states, have willfully ignored overwhelming evidence that no degree of care or education can uproot the intrinsic sickness of Chinese culture. He calls for an end to all missionary and charitable work in China.\n\nIn chapter seven Townsend details the sheer horror of China's ongoing civil war. Among the factions competing for power in China, Townsend believes that none of them, neither the leaders nor their men, have any fixed loyalties or higher motivations apart from desire for loot. With every man only out for himself and \"China's microscopically few good men... too weak to be felt\", Townsend predicts no end to the chaos. Much of the violence, Townsend explains in chapter eight, is fuelled by opium, the addiction of one out of every eight Chinese. Peasants are often compelled to plant opium by local administrators and warlords to pay for their armies, to such an extent that many districts are more heavily planted with opium than food, and all the while KMT officials lie incessantly to the international community about their efforts to suppress the trade. In contrast to the depredations of the KMT and other warlords, in chapter nine Townsend praises the positive influence of the Japanese in China. The Japanese themselves are considered by him to be a loyal, brave, reliable, honest, and cleanly people, and thus the polar opposites of the Chinese. Townsend provides his own firsthand account of the Shanghai Incident of 1932, which he claims was probably provoked by Chinese aggression, and similarly sees the Japanese decision to invade Manchuria as a fitting response to the \"foredoomed contest of covert violence against the Japanese\" waged by Zhang Xueliang. Townsend also lavishes praise on the puppet state of Manchukuo as \"a blessing to the thirty million or so Chinese living there\" which has achieved \"stability and well-being for millions\". Townsend concludes that informed observers are grateful for Japan's role in dealing with an unruly China.\n\nFinally, in chapter ten Townsend affirms that the \"backward Chinese\" are America’s \"only legitimate problem in Asia\" and asks what can be done to deal with a nation that spends aid money corruptly, does not respect its loans, mistreats and attacks foreigners, ignores international drug laws, will not protect foreign investment, and does not engage in productive diplomacy with other nations. He warns Americans that the Chinese see kindness only as weakness and thus can never respond to any type of positive reinforcement. \"For every Chinese, from highest to lowest,\" he argues, \"all the acts of life are concentrated upon extracting, from those who mean nothing to him, what he can for the benefit of himself and his clan.\" By contrast, he believes that the Chinese do understand force and respect strength. Therefore, he advocates that the United States forgo naive \"sentimentalist\" thinking and adopt a policy of \"stern insistence upon our rights without cruel abuse of our strength\", including withholding further loans without strict conditions and holding on to foreign concessions and extraterritoriality.\n\n\"Ways That Are Dark\" hit the bestsellers list in the United States, and \"The Robesonian\" noted that the book \"was given lavish praise and bitter abuse by some of the leading newspapers in America\". It was advertised as doing \"for China what Katherine Mayo did for Mother India\", and \"Foreign Affairs\" magazine described it as \"a sensationally unorthodox and unvarnished picture of the Chinese\".\n\nE. Francis Brown, writing for \"Current History\", approved of the book's comprehensive and frank discussion of conditions within China. Though the book takes a strongly negative stance towards China, Brown argued that \"this very unfriendliness makes the book a welcome antidote to much that has been written in recent years and some of its conclusions might be well pondered by those who shape America's Far Eastern Policy.\" Willis J. Abbot of the \"Christian Science Monitor\" especially praised Townsend's study of the social life and customs of the Chinese and claimed that \"Any capable observer with a few weeks at his disposal in China will corroborate much that appears in this volume.\" His praise was echoed by Douglas Jerrold of \"The English Review\" who found the work \"brilliant and outspoken\".\n\nBy contrast, Lewis S. Gannett of \"The Nation\" criticized Townsend for writing an \"apology for Japan\" and painting the Chinese as \"all alike, all generically different from Japanese and Westerners\". A similarly negative assessment published in \"The China Weekly Review\" observed that \"A Chinese might easily write a similar book and by emphasizing the activities of the Capones and Dillingers, the bootleggers, kidnappers and racketeers, prove to his own satisfaction at least that the Americans constituted a degenerate branch of the white race.\" \"The Republican\" concluded its review of the book with \"Throughout the presentation of his observations runs a thread of ill-considered bias which taints his words. We must look to other... more discerning writers for the truth about China.\"\n\nProminent sinologists were also critical of the work. In the pages of \"The New York Times\", Owen Lattimore condemned \"Ways That Are Dark\" as \"a general indictment of a whole race\" which lacks insight, contains factual errors, and relies on second-hand accounts. He stated that the book would \"only convince people who are convinced already.\" Nathaniel Peffer likewise denounced the book as \"a rehash of all the old patter of the outport hotel lobbies, with all its half-truths, inaccuracies, provincialism, ignorance and sometimes crassness... [Townsend] has not managed to observe accurately the most simple and superficial things.\" JOP Bland, though deeming Townsend's conclusions \"as a whole... unconvincing\", at least found the chapter on opium \"particularly instructive.\"\n\nAlso among the book's detractors were missionaries, whom Townsend had criticized. They reviewed the book negatively in a variety of periodicals, including \"The Chinese Recorder\", which accused Townsend of having \"gathered a lot of stories and put them together in a clever, cynical and unusually warped way\". Other negative reviews appeared in \"The Missionary Review of the World\", \"The China Christian Year Book\", and \"The Missionary Herald at Home and Abroad\".\n\n\"Ways That Are Dark\" continues to be noted for its Sinophobic viewpoint. In 1985 the historian Frank P. Mintz called it \"a classic in the literature of Sinophobia.\" In 2000 the scholar Yong Chen referred to Townsend's attitude towards the ethnic characteristics of the Chinese people as being derivative of \"the anti-Chinese prejudice that nineteenth-century writers had propagated.\" In 2004 the writer Gregory Clark described it as \"a viciously anti-China book\" that \"contrasts an allegedly dirty, devious Chinese nation with the trustworthy, hardworking Japanese\".\n\nThough the book was originally to be called \"Chinese Merry-Go-Round\", the title under which it was ultimately published is a quote from Bret Harte's poem \"The Heathen Chinee\". Though \"The Heathen Chinee\" had been used a rallying cry by opponents of Chinese immigration to the United States, Harte had intended it as a parody of the anti-Chinese bigotry prevalent in the United States of the nineteenth century.\n\nThe Japanese Army and Navy strongly approved of the book and several thousand copies of it were bought by the War Ministry and Naval Ministry who by the beginning of 1934 were distributing the books for free to foreign journalists and officials. By contrast, the Nationalist Government of China responded by banning Townsend's book throughout China from 1935. Even so, the journalist George Moorad reported that in 1946 Chinese communists distributed contraband copies of the book to American China Marines in the hopes of disillusioning them about conditions in China.\n\n\"Ways That Are Dark\" was already in its fifth printing by 1937, but in 1942 Townsend was imprisoned for having accepted money from the Japanese Committee on Trade and Information between 1937 and 1940 without registering as a foreign agent. The book was not re-printed again until the white supremacist magazine Barnes Review published a new edition in 1997.\n\nThe Barnes Review edition was subsequently translated into Japanese in 2004 by a pair of Japanese translators, Hideo Tanaka and Kenkichi Sakita, and became an instant success, selling out 10 successive re-printings before 2007 when it was reissued as a mass market paperback. Gregory Clark noted that the Japanese edition of \"Ways That Are Dark\", which was entitled \"Ankoku Tairiku Chūgoku no Shinjitsu\" (\"The Truth About the Dark Continent China\"), had garnered widespread popularity among members of the Japanese right-wing.\n\nTanaka, one of the translators of the book, praised Townsend in \"Shokun!\" magazine for his \"penetrating insight\" in reporting \"starkly and vividly on the true nature of the Chinese that he had witnessed firsthand\". Sakita, the other translator, likewise lauded the book in an article written for Nobukatsu Fujioka's Association for Advancement of Unbiased View of History. Sakita called the book \"essential reading to understand what China really is\" and argued that Townsend's ideas continue to offer important lessons in conducting Sino-Japanese relations today. The book was also reviewed positively by the newspaper \"Yomiuri Shimbun\".\n\n\n"}
