{"id": "8667766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8667766", "title": "2006 Oregon Ballot Measure 39", "text": "2006 Oregon Ballot Measure 39\n\nOregon Ballot Measure 39, passed in the 2006 General Election, is a ballot measure that prohibits the government from condemning property from one private party (by eminent domain) on behalf of another private party.\n\nAdvocates both for and against the measure advanced misleading arguments during the 2006 campaign: once in a Voter's Pamphlet article by the League of Women Voters, and again in a radio advertisement by Oregonians In Action.\n\nThe campaign for Measure 39 was heavily financed by Oregonians In Action, a political action committee that previously drove the campaign for Oregon Ballot Measure 37 (2004).\n\n"}
{"id": "23046787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23046787", "title": "2009–10 Nigerien constitutional crisis", "text": "2009–10 Nigerien constitutional crisis\n\nThe 2009–2010 Nigerien constitutional crisis occurred in Niger due to a political conflict between President Mamadou Tandja and judicial and legislative bodies regarding the Constitutional referendum that opponents claimed was an attempt to extend his mandate beyond the constitutional maximum. It was held on 4 August 2009 before a parliamentary election which was mandated to take place by 26 August 2009. The crisis eventually led to a coup d'état by military leaders who overthrew President Tandja and formed a ruling junta.\n\nPresident Tandja dissolved the National Assembly of Niger on 26 May 2009 due to strong opposition from the National Assembly, civil society groups, and the courts regarding his referendum proposal. The Constitutional Court of Niger ruled on 12 June 2009 on a case brought by opposition deputies from the National Assembly that the proposed referendum was unconstitutional, and on 21 June 2009 the President announced he would not seek the 20 August vote. He left open the possibility he would propose future constitutional changes before the end of his mandate. On 26 June 2009 the President then dissolved the courts and announced he was assuming emergency powers.\n\nHis ministers then announced the 4 August referendum would go forward, despite previous refusals of courts, political parties, and the independent electoral commission to carry out the election.\n\nThe proposal for a referendum was first floated in May 2009. Beginning in late 2008, several supporters of President Tandja began a campaign to extend his term of office. Opposition from political opponents was swift, with dueling marches in Niamey in December 2008. Supporters of Tandja to the slogan of his 2004 re-election campaign, \"Tazarché\", which means \"Continuation\" or \"Continuity\" in Hausa: supporters were quickly dubbed \"\"Tazarchistes\" and opponents \"Anti-Tazarchistes\"\". Demonstrations were held throughout Niger, while political committees were created, headed by supporters of Tandja outside government. The Tazarche committee was headed by Niamey politicians Boubacar Mazou and Anassara Dogari, and Tahoua based businessman Aboubacar Dan Dubaï In January the Prime Minister asserted that all elections would go on as scheduled, including the Presidential election, which by law must take place before 22 December 2009, the five-year anniversary of Tandja's second five-year election as President. The 1999 constitution made the serving of more than two terms impossible (article 36), and the revision of that article illegal by any means (article 136). Prime Minister Seyni Oumarou reiterated on 22 January that all scheduled elections would go ahead before the end of 2009.\n\nIn March, during his meetings with French President Sarkozy, Tandja explicitly stated that he would not seek a third term.\n\nThen, in early May 2009, when questioned by the press on his visit to Agadez to begin peace talks with Tuareg rebels, Tandja announced that \"the people have demanded I remain.\" Thereafter it was announced he would seek a referendum to scrap the current constitution and create the Sixth Republic of Niger.\n\nA series of protests followed, led by opposition party PNDS-Tarayya, but crucially containing a number of parties which had previously supported the government. These included the CDS, a party which enabled the ruling MNDS to form a majority in the National Assembly. The CDS announcement of opposition—-the last of the major parties to weigh in on the plan—on also left the President open to National Assembly votes to sanction him, or bring down the current government. In May 2009, in response to their parties opposition to a proposed referendum to allow the President to seek a third term, the three members of RDP-Jama'a and ANDP-Zaman Lahiya were replaced with ministers drawn from the MNSD-Nassara. The CDS continued to support the government while opposing the referendum plan\n\nAccording to the 1999 Constitution of Niger, the President may call a referendum on any matter (except for a revision of those elements of the Constitution outlined in Article 136—including the presidential term limits). The Constitutional Court of Niger and the National Assembly of Niger must advise the president, but there is no provision that the president must heed their advice. On 25 May 2009, the Constitutional Court, made up of appointed judges, released a ruling that any referendum to create a new constitution would be unconstitutional, and further would be a violation of the oath the president had taken on the Koran (a serious matter in Niger, which is overwhelmingly Muslim). The week prior, two major parties had come out in their opposition to the referendum proposal as well. On 13 May, the ANDP-Zaman Lahiya, led by Moumouni Adamou Djermakoye, declared its opposition to any change in the constitution. On 15 May the CDS-Rahama, the party without which the MNSD could not have formed governments in 1999, 2004, and 2007, came out opposing the referendum, and calling the constitution unalterable. Neither party moved into the opposition, and both Ousmane and Djermokoye said they were willing to negotiate with the president.\n\nOn 26 May, within hours of the Constitutional Court's statement, official media read out a statement that President Tandja had dissolved the National Assembly. Under the 1999 Constitution he is allowed to do this once every two years, but he must call parliamentary elections within three months.\n\nThe full details of the referendum proposal were not finalized, but elements of the proposed constitution were outlined by government spokesmen and by a commission set up by the president to draft a proposed document. Tandja would extend his term for a transitional mandate of three years, during which a new constitution would be written and approved. The system of government would be changed from a semi-presidential system to a full presidential system, which Tandja claims is more stable. There would be no limit to presidential terms, and a bi-cameral legislature would be created with an upper house, the Senate.\n\nOn 5 June, the President and the Council of Ministers of Niger approved plans for the referendum, titled \"Referendum on the Project of the VIth Republic\". Campaigning would take place from 13 July 2009 to 2 August 2009. The President established a commission to create a draft constitutional law upon which the population would vote. The Independent National Electoral Commission (CENI) was ordered to oversee preparations for voting. Electors would be able to choose \"yes\" or \"no\" to the text \"\"Do you approve of the Constitutional project submitted for your assent?\"\n\nLarge opposition rallies were held in May and June, attended by a broad coalition of political parties, civil society groups and trades unions. These included Former Prime Ministers Hama Amadou and Mahamadou Issoufou, former President and current President of the Assembly Mahamane Ousmane, and former President of the Assembly and party leader, Moumouni Adamou Djermakoye. Moumouni Djermakoye died of a heart attack during the second of these rallies, on 14 June. These were followed by a threatened general strike of all seven of the main Nigerien trades union bodies, the first time these groups had announced a joint strike action. On 31 May a pro-referendum rally at the Governor's residence in the southern town of Dosso was attacked by a mob, and rioting lasted for several hours in the city center. Opposition was also voiced by the governments of the United States, Canada, the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), and the President of Niger's neighbour and regional power Nigeria. ECOWAS threatened economic sanctions should Niger change the constitution within six months of a national election, sent a commission led by the Nigerian President to consult with Niamey, and placed Niger on its upcoming meeting agenda, beside the coups in Guinea-Bissau, Guinea, and Mauritania.\n\nA 22 June announcement by the ECOWAS summit that member states would impose sanctions on Niger should the President attempt to revise the constitution before the next presidential election. Mahamane Toure, ECOWAS commissioner for political affairs, peace and security, was quoted by AFP saying that Tandja \"has tried to keep himself in power by non-democratic means. For us, there is no legal alternative left for him.\" \n\nOn 12 June 2009, the Constitutional Court ruled against Tandja's referendum proposal, following a non-binding advisement to the President the month before. This time the ruling was in response to a case brought by a coalition of opposition groups, which included the CDS, a governing partner in the previous government, without which the MNSD could not gain a majority in the Assembly. In such cases, the Constitution specifies that rulings of the Constitutional Court are binding and may not be appealed. Thereafter, the Independent National Electoral Commission announced that National Assembly elections would take place on 20 August, and no referendum would be voted upon.\n\nOn 19 June President Tandja called Council of the Republic, a consultative body of all major government leaders. This was the first time this body was called. On 21 June President Tandja released a statement saying he would honor the Court and Electoral Commission rulings, and would suspend any effort to change the constitution until after the National Assembly elections on 20 August.\n\nDespite the 21 June statement by the President, on the evening of 24 June, Minister of Communications Ben Omar released a statement by the President, demanding the Constitutional Court to rescind its decision, citing a 2002 statement by the same body that the President was able to call referenda. In apparent response, the Democratic and Social Convention (CDS) of former President Mahamane Ousmane announced its final break with the MNSD government, withdrawing from the government coalition and pulling its eight members from the Nigerien Council of Ministers. In a statement, the CDS demanded the President definitively submit to the Court's decision. The party also announced the creation of its own opposition coalition, the MDD (\"Mouvement pour le défense de le démocratie\") along with around five smaller parties such as the UDR and the PDP. This group appears in direct competition with the larger opposition front, the FDD (\"Front de défense de la démocratie\"), which is led by the PNDS and staged the two recent anti-referendum marches in Niamey.\n\nOn the same day, the Democratic Confederation of Workers of Niger (CDTN) trade union confederation led a 24-hour general strike across the nation to protest the President's referendum plans, after a previous strike had been indefinitely postponed on 18 June. All seven trade union confederations took part, in the first general strike since the creation of the Fifth Republic in 1999. The organizers provided skeleton staffs of union workers for hospitals, water and electric utilities, and airports.\nIn a televised and radio speech to the nation on the following evening (26 June, after Friday prayers), President Tandja announced he was dissolving the government and would rule by decree. On 27 June, the leader of the main opposition party, Mahamadou Issoufou, denounced what he called a coup, and called on Nigeriens to resist by all legal means, citing Article 13 of the 1999 Constitution which mandates officials to ignore \"manifestly illegal orders\". The military, which had previously declared itself neutral, began patrolling the streets of the capital after 18:00 hours beginning on 23 June, prior to the President's declaration of emergency powers.\n\nThe Chairman of the 66 member decentralized organization which operates and certifies all elections, the National Independent Election Commission (CENI), Moumouni Hamidou, stated following the 18 June Court decision that they would not hold the 4 August referendum and were preparing almost 7 million voting cards for the 20 August legislative election.\n\nDespite this, Minister of the Interior Albade Abouba announced on 28 June, following President Tandja's assumption of emergency powers, that both the 4 August referendum and the 20 August election would go ahead.\n\nOn 29 June, Tandja again appeared on state media defending the state of emergency. Six of the seven CDS-Rahama members of the Council of Ministers officially stepped down, following their party's 25 June 2009 break with the President. Those leaving held relatively minor posts. CDS Minister of Defense Djida Hamadou chose to remain in government.\n\nLater the same day the government announced it had dissolved the Constitutional Court, \"nullifing\" the naming of its members and \"suspending\" articles 103, 104, and 105 of the Constitution which deal with the court. Shortly thereafter the High Council for Communication announced that opposition broadcaster Dounia Radio Television was suspended for \"the broadcast of calls for insurrection against security forces\", presumably for airing Mahamadou Issoufou's statements the day prior.\n\nOn 3 July 2009, Tandja appointed a new constitutional court – a decision which was strongly criticised by civil society groups, unions, political parties and others. Lawyers declared a strike on 13 July 2009.\n\nThe contested referendum was held on 4 August despite major criticism from international groups, and was overwhelmingly approved in part because of opposition boycotts. A regional director at the International Foundation for Electoral Systems said that this might put a halt in democratic development in the country and possibly force the opposition to encourage protests.\n\nThe political crisis in Niger appears deadlocked since the disputed referendum and election. General Abdulsalami Abubakar of Nigeria, a mediator appointed by the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), has been negotiating a power-sharing arrangement.\n\nOn 18 February 2010 President Mamadou Tandja was captured by soldiers while chairing a cabinet meeting. The Junta established a cabinet and promised to run the government during a short transition period before new elections.\n\n"}
{"id": "5879550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5879550", "title": "Ambush marketing", "text": "Ambush marketing\n\nAmbush marketing or ambush advertising is a marketing strategy in which an advertiser \"ambushes\" an event to compete for exposure against other advertisers.\n\nThe term \"ambush marketing\" was coined by marketing strategist Jerry Welsh, while he was working as the manager of global marketing efforts for American Express in the 1980s. Most ambush marketing campaigns capitalize on the prominence of a major event, and aim to create an \"association\" with the event without being an \"official\" partner or sponsor of the event. An advertiser may indirectly ambush an event by alluding to its imagery and themes without referencing any specific trademarks associated with it, or in \"direct\" and \"predatory\" means—where an advertiser engages in conduct (including the fraudulent use of official names and trademarks) that mislead consumers into believing they are officially associated with the event.\n\nActions against ambush advertising are most common in sport (where major events such as the FIFA World Cup, Olympic Games, and the Super Bowl are prominent targets), as the practice can devalue and dilute exclusive sponsorship rights, and in some cases, infringe upon the organizers' intellectual property rights. Such actions may include restricting advertising in \"clean zones\" around an event site, removing or obscuring references to non-sponsors at venues, and requiring host countries to pass laws to grant the organizer legal rights to enforce clean zones, and to restrict the use of specific words and concepts to create unofficial associations with the event. \n\nAnti-ambush marketing regulations have attracted controversy for limiting freedom of speech, and for preventing companies from factually promoting themselves in the context of an event.\n\nTypically, ambush marketing is used to \"ride off\" the prominence and draw of a major event, aligning promotional activities and publicity around it, without having to pay fees to the event's organizer to be designated as an \"official\" sponsor in a certain product category. Ambush marketing techniques can be classified into two categories: \"direct\" forms of ambush marketing involve advertisers promoting themselves as being a part of or associated with an event, diluting the exposure of official sponsors and their respective campaigns—especially if they are the product of the non-sponsor's competitors, while indirect forms of ambush marketing use imagery relating to an event in advertising to evoke a mental connection with it, without specifically mentioning it.\n\n\"Predatory\" forms of direct ambush marketing involve fraudulent claims by a non-sponsor that pass themselves off as being an \"official\" sponsor, usually by making direct references to trademarks relating to an event, but without having any official authorization from the event's organizers to identify itself as an official sponsor or use its trademarks. An advertiser may attempt to perform a publicity stunt inside the venue itself to attract attention to their brand, such as having attendees wear attire that is associated with the company. An official sponsor can also be involved in direct ambush marketing if they perform more extensive promotional activities at an event than they were originally authorized, such as distributing branded merchandise when they were only granted advertising on signage—especially if these activities compete with those of another sponsor authorized to do so.\n\nA company may also perform direct ambush marketing by —factually marketing their role in connection to an event or its participants. For example, a company which produces sporting equipment may advertise that they are the official supplier for a specific athlete or team. Similarly, a non-sponsor may choose to solely sponsor the event's telecast by a broadcaster, but not the event itself. The factual acknowledgment of a non-sponsor's involvement with the participants in an event by, for example, a television host or commentator, can also be considered an incidental form of coattail marketing, as it provides additional unpaid publicity to the brand.\n\nMost forms of indirect ambush marketing involve a non-sponsor making use of imagery, themes, and values similar to what the event and campaigns from official sponsors express, either positively or negatively, and without making specific references to the event itself or its trademarks. In essence, the advertiser markets itself using content that evokes a mental association with the event, and as a result, appeals to those who are aware of the event. Advertisers may use a well-known nickname for the event that is not a trademark, such as \"the big game\".\n\nSimilarly, a non-sponsor may use \"distractive\" techniques to divert consumers' attention away from the actual event and its official sponsors using similarly indirect means; for example, a non-sponsor may saturate the area at or around its venue (including street vendors, billboards, and public transport) with a competing marketing presence. Such \"saturation marketing\" may either be indirectly related to the event, or be incidental and make no references at all. In some cases, a company may sponsor or create a similar \"parallel property,\" designed to compete directly with a major property by evoking similar thematics.\n\nIn response to the threats of ambush marketing and other forms of trademark infringement, organizers of major sporting events have sometimes required host countries or cities to implement special laws that, going beyond standard trademark law, provide regulations and penalties for advertisers who disseminate marketing materials that create unauthorized associations with an event by making references to specific words, concepts, and symbols. Organizers may also require a city to set up \"clean zones\" in and around venues, in which advertising and commerce is restricted to those that are authorized by the event's organizer—specifically, the event's official sponsors.\n\nIn some cases, a venue may be required to suspend its naming rights for the duration of the event if the venue is named for a concern that is not an official sponsor, during which it is referred to under a generic name by all event-related materials and telecasts, and all signage referring to the sponsored name may be obscured or removed. For example, 2010 Winter Olympics hockey venue General Motors Place (since renamed to Rogers Arena) was renamed \"Canada Hockey Place\" for the duration of the Games. \n\nBroadcasters of events may be contractually required to give the official sponsors right of first refusal to purchase advertising time during their telecasts. Some events may require all advertising time to be controlled and allocated by the organizer itself, such as the UEFA Champions League.\n\nThe earliest example of general anti-ambush advertising legislation were passed in South Africa in 2001 in preparation for the 2003 Cricket World Cup. The law gave the Minister of Trade and Industry the ability to designate specific events as \"protected,\" making it illegal to use the event's trademarks visually, audibly, and \"in promotional activities, which in any way, directly or indirectly, is intended to be brought into association with or to allude to an event,\" to \"derive special promotional benefit from the event,\" without the consent of the organizer. Prior to the 2011 Rugby World Cup, New Zealand passed the similar \"Major Events Management Act,\" which prohibits any promotional use of words, emblems, and concepts implying association with events specifically designated as \"major\" by the national government, without permission from the event's organizers. The law also provides the ability for clean zones to be established around event sites for the purposes of enforcing advertising rules and providing crowd control.\n\nRule 40 of the Olympic Charter forbids all Olympic athletes from participating in marketing activities for companies that are not official sponsors of the Olympics, even if they have official relationships with the advertiser, during a timeframe that begins 9 days before the opening ceremony, and ends 3 days after the Games' conclusion. This includes advertising material containing \"Olympic-related terms,\" including the current year, the host city's name, \"Games,\" \"Olympians,\" \"Sponsors,\" \"Medal,\" \"Gold,\" \"Silver,\" \"Bronze,\" \"Challenge,\" \"Effort,\" \"Performance,\" and \"Victory\".\n\nThe United Kingdom passed the London Olympic Games and Paralympic Games Act 2006 prior to the 2012 Summer Olympics: on top of existing laws providing special protection for Olympic symbols, the act banned the use of the words \"2012\" and \"Games\" by non-sponsors, either together, or with words or concepts relating to the event, such as \"Gold,\" \"Silver,\" \"Bronze,\" \"Medals,\" \"Summer,\" \"Sponsors,\" or \"London,\" to imply an association with the Games. LOCOG also announced plans to enforce these rules in the internet keyword advertising market.\n\nThe first notable instances of ambush marketing occurred between the 1984 Summer Olympics in Los Angeles, and the 1988 Summer Olympics in Seoul. Earlier Games allowed any number of companies to be official sponsors, and there were a record 628 sponsors for the 1976 Summer Olympics in Montreal. Despite the revenue it provided for the Games, the ability for sponsors to promote awareness of themselves within the context of the Games were diluted by the sheer number. In order to improve the value of these sponsorships, the International Olympic Committee implemented a system of exclusive sponsorship rights within specific market categories for the 1984 Summer Olympics.\n\nIn 1986, credit card company American Express—rival to official sponsor Visa Inc., began a marketing campaign in Asia promoting merchandise from a fictitious \"Olympic Heritage Committee,\" supposedly based in Switzerland. American Express halted the campaign following complaints by the IOC, who threatened to denounce the company's actions with ads and media events in which sports ministers and Olympic athletes from the countries involved in the campaign would cut American Express credit cards into pieces, if they did not withdraw the ads. In a follow-up, American Express released ads featuring a photo from the opening ceremony of the 1986 Asian Games held in the same city, captioned \"Amex welcomes you to Seoul,\" which implied that it was a photo of the Olympics' opening ceremony. These campaigns resulted in retaliatory advertising from Visa.; in a continuation of an ongoing campaign promoting its exclusivity at certain venues and events, Visa ran advertising promoting that it was the only credit card accepted at Olympic venues and for purchasing tickets. \n\nAmerican Express felt that Visa's advertisements were misleading, citing viewers who interpreted the ads as to believe that no other credit cards were accepted anywhere in the host city during the Olympics (such as at shops and restaurants), rather than applying only for Olympic ticket sales and at venues. Prior to the 1992 Winter Olympics and Summer Olympics, American Express aired advertisements acknowledging these facts, explained with the tagline \"You'll need a passport, but you don't need a Visa.\" Prior to the 1992 Summer Olympics, the company also promoted a partnership with Iberia and Turespana that made American Express \"the official credit card of tourism in Spain\"—a campaign which factored the Olympics, as well as Seville Expo '92. The IOC negotiated a truce between Amex and Visa to tone down their advertisements, but encouraged Visa once Amex returned to its ambush marketing in 1994, and Amex finally conceded defeat by 1996. Jerry Welsh, who was the manager of global marketing efforts for American Express in the 1980s, would coin the term \"ambush marketing\" to refer to these activities. Welsh defended Amex's practices as a corporation's duty to its shareholders after they lost out on the official Olympic sponsorship rights to Visa.\n\nIn the mid 1990s, Nike became known for several major ambush marketing schemes at the Olympics and association football tournaments.\n\nAt the 1996 Summer Olympics, Nike (whose presence competed with official sponsor Reebok) set up a prominent pop-up store near the athletes' village. Consistent with its aggressively-toned marketing of the time, its campaign featured slogans parodying those of the Olympics and attacking its values, including \"Faster, Higher, Stronger, Badder\", and \"If you're not here to win, you're a tourist\". Nike was also attempting to have fans to display signs with its slogans inside venues. IOC marketing director Michael Pane noted that the campaign was being widely criticized, as athletes were \"likely to be uncomfortable when their shoe sponsor says they have failed unless they win a gold medal\", and that Nike was \"crossing the very fine line between having an impact and biting the hand that creates tomorrow's heroes.\" \n\nPayne and the United States Olympic Committee's marketing director John Krimsky held a meeting over the campaign with Howard Slusher, a subordinate of Nike co-founder Phil Knight. The meeting quickly turned aggressive; Payne threatened IOC counter-measures, including pulling accreditation for Nike employees, banning the display of its logos on equipment, and organizing a press conference where silver medallists from the Games, as well as prominent Nike-sponsored athlete Michael Johnson, would denounce the company. Faced with these threats, Nike agreed to retract most of its negative advertising and PR stunts. Nike eventually served as the official sportswear supplier of the 2000 Summer Olympics on short notice after Reebok unexpectedly pulled out, and used the Games to launch its first-ever global marketing campaign. \n\nNike also performed saturation ambushes at UEFA Euro 1996 and the 1998 FIFA World Cup, by buying advertising space in the vicinity of the host venues in order to prevent the official sponsors (Umbro and Adidas respectively) from being able to promote themselves. Nike's actions influenced the eventual adoption of \"safe zone\" rules, requiring official sponsors to have exclusive use of all advertising locations within a certain radius of an event's venue.\n\nDuring a game at the 2006 FIFA World Cup, fans were asked to remove \"Leeuwenhosen\"—pants with lion tails colored in the orange of the Netherlands national football team, distributed and branded by Bavaria Brewery—because they infringed on the exclusive beer sponsorship rights owned by Anheuser-Busch. Officials distributed orange-colored shorts to fans affected by the requirement. Bavaria Brewery was again accused of ambush marketing at the 2010 FIFA World Cup, when 36 female fans were ejected from a game (along with the arrest of two, later released, accused of violating the Contravention of Merchandise Marks Act) for wearing unbranded orange miniskirts that were provided by Bavaria; Sylvie van der Vaart, wife of Dutch player Rafael van der Vaart, had modeled one of the miniskirts in an advertising campaign for the brewery. Robbie Earle was also fired from his roles as ITV Sport pundit and ambassador for England's bid for the 2018 World Cup, when it was claimed by FIFA that he had sold tickets meant for family and friends on to Bavaria.\n\nPrior to the 2010 FIFA World Cup, South African budget airline Kulula ran an advertisement that played upon the fact that they were not an official sponsor of the tournament: it described themselves as \"Unofficial National Carrier of the You-Know-What,\" and contained images of stadiums, balls, vuvuzelas and national flags. The ad was pulled following a complaint by FIFA, who claimed that the ads contained symbols that constituted an unauthorized association with the event when used together. Kulula mocked FIFA's objections in subsequent advertising: a follow-up ad deliberately replaced the items from the first ad with similarly-shaped items (such as disco balls and golf tees), and explained that there were other reasons to travel South Africa \"than just for that thing we wouldn't dare mention.\" The airline also announced that it would give away free flights to anyone named \"Sepp Blatter\"; the offer was redeemed for a dog named after the then-FIFA president.\n\nThe International Olympic Committee has required host cities to enact measures to restrict commerce around venues, ensure official sponsors have access to public advertising space, \"reduce and sanction\" ambush marketing, and keep venues \"clean\" of any references to non-sponsors.\n\nAt the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing, the IOC worked with the local organizing committee to develop a \"robust brand-protection program\"; logos of non-sponsors were covered with tape on equipment at Games facilities—a restriction that applied even to appliances, bathroom fixtures, elevators, and fire extinguishers. However, there was a high-profile ambush during the opening ceremony; former Olympic gymnast Li Ning, who founded an eponymous Chinese shoe company, lit the Olympic cauldron. The Li-Ning company was not an official sponsor of the Games (but did act as an equipment supplier for some of China's teams), and Li wore Adidas appeal for the sequence per its official sponsorship. On the first trading day following the ceremony, Li-Ning's share price increased by 3.52%.\n\nPrior to the 2012 Summer Olympics in London, England, bookmaker Paddy Power organized an egg-and-spoon race in the French village of London, Burgundy with a €100 credit as a prize, allowing the company to jokingly market itself as being the official sponsor of \"the largest athletics event in London this year\". LOCOG threatened Paddy Power over ads for the event, but backtracked after Paddy Power threatened to take the organizing committee to court. When announcing the planned lawsuit, a Paddy Power spokesmen quipped that \"It's a pity they didn't put the same energy in to the ticketing and security arrangements for the Games that they put into protecting their sponsorship revenue streams.\" Nike released a television advert tying into the Games with a similar concept, featuring footage of athletes training in other places named \"London\", and the tagline \"Greatness doesn't only exist in SW19\". Following the Games, a study by the Global Language Monitor found that several non-sponsors, including Centrica, Ericsson, Philips, and Subway, were among the brands with the highest perceived relationship between themselves and the Games.\n\nIn January 2014, prior to the 2014 Winter Olympics, clothing company The North Face was sued by the Canadian Olympic Committee (COC) for marketing a line of \"villagewear\" apparel that it felt implied an unauthorized association with the Games. The apparel had designs featuring the colors and symbols of countries (such as red and white with a maple leaf for Canada) and patches reading \"RU 14,\" were described in a catalog as \"[capturing] the international spirit of the Olympic Games,\" and several items in the catalog contained references to Sochi in their names. The COC also felt that the name \"villagewear\" implied a reference to Olympic Villages, accused the company of using the Olympic rings in a store sign advertising the line, and purporting to give away tickets to the Games as part of a contest—in violation of terms and conditions restricting redistribution of tickets without permission. The North Face disputed the COC's claims, arguing that it did not imply it was an official supporter of the COC, did not use any of the official branding elements of the Games, that the COC had no right to restrict usage of national symbols that are in the public domain, and that the COC did not hold rights to the \"alleged Olympic trademarks\" at all since they were owned by the IOC. The suit went to trial in December 2014.\n\nPrior to the 2016 Summer Olympics, Rule 40 was loosened by the IOC to allow some campaigns by non-sponsors involving athletes to occur during the Games, as long as the campaign had begun within a certain timeframe prior to the Games, and do not imply an association with the Olympics. It also requires the submission of waivers to the IOC and the country's National Olympic Committee that describe the extent of the marketing involving athletes. Prior to these Games, the United States Olympic Committee (USOC) also issued a warning asserting that non-sponsors could not create or disseminate any content related to the Olympics on social media, including posts referencing the Games or its results, posts sourced from official accounts, or posts using official hashtags (which the USOC has claimed as trademarks). \n\nIn July 2016, the Australian Olympic Committee sued mobile provider Telstra over adverts promoting its partnership with the Seven Network to offer subscribers free premium access to its digital coverage of the 2016 Summer Olympics, as the broadcaster's \"official technology partner\". The ad was set to a version of Peter Allen's song \"I Go to Rio\"—a phrase which was also used as the tagline of the campaign. The AOC argued that the promotion was deceiving and could imply that Telstra was an official sponsor of the Australian Olympic team (Telstra was previously an official sponsor, but ended its relationship in 2015). Telstra defended the ads, stating that they were intended to promote its relationship with the official broadcaster, and that it would amend the ads to disclaim that the company is not an official sponsor of the AOC or any related entities. On 29 July 2016, a federal court ruled in favor of Telstra, stating that there was \"no doubt\" the campaign was relating to the Games without using its trademarks, but that it was \"not enough for the AOC to prove that the advertisements were Olympic-themed.\"\n\nThe IOC's restrictive ambush marketing rules were one factor in the National Hockey League's decision to ban its players from the 2018 Olympics; for the previous five Olympics, the NHL scheduled an extended break in the regular season to allow players to participate, and placed its All-Star Game on hiatus. The NHL noted that the rules disallowed teams from promoting their players' participation in the tournament.\n\nThe National Football League has historically been protective over unauthorized uses of its intellectual property, such as the game telecasts themselves, and most notably, its trademark for the Super Bowl—the league's championship game. To protect these properties and its official sponsors, the league has historically sent reminders and cease and desist notices to advertisers and businesses—including establishments that may be showing the game—that use references to \"Super Bowl,\" \"Super Sunday,\" or team names in promotional activities related to the Super Bowl. Although using part of a trademark for descriptive purposes, without implying official association, can be considered a nominative use under United States trademark law, non-sponsors typically use euphemisms such as \"the Big Game\" to refer to the Super Bowl in advertising to protect themselves from liability. In 2006, the NFL submitted an application to register \"The Big Game\" as a trademark as well, but withdrew following opposition by students of Stanford University and UC Berkeley, who play in a long-running college football rivalry game also known as \"the Big Game\"—an event which pre-dates the Super Bowl by several decades. The NFL has also partaken in clean zone policies around Super Bowl sites to protect against saturation ambush marketing. \n\nThe XFL—a forthcoming rival league, floated a large blimp branded with the logos of the league and its equipment supplier Spalding, over the Oakland Coliseum during an Oakland Raiders playoff game on January 6, 2000. The league intended to do so again on January 14 for the AFC championship game, but on the 9th, the blimp was let loose unmanned after a failed attempt to land it at Oakland International Airport, and it crashed over a waterfront restaurant on the Oakland Estuary after getting caught on a sailboat mast. The blimp sustained US$2.5 million worth of damage, and the incident was later considered to be an omen for the XFL's eventual failure.\n\nIn 2009 and 2010, Avid Life Media produced advertisements for its extramarital and homosexual online dating services Ashley Madison and ManCrunch, that it aimed to have aired during the Super Bowl. The Ashley Madison ad featured the tagline \"Who Are You Doing After the Game?,\" while the ManCrunch ad culminated with two male football fans kissing and dry humping each other. Both ads were rejected by the game's respective broadcasters; the Ashley Madison ad for objectionable content, and the ManCrunch ad for its unauthorized use of NFL trademarks. An Avid Life Media spokesperson, as well as the media, initially reported that the ManCrunch ad had actually been rejected because of its homosexual themes. Critics felt that the company was engaging in ambush marketing by intentionally submitting ads that would be rejected by broadcasters, and thus earn free publicity from the resulting \"controversy\" without having to pay for the ad time itself. The company denied this was the case, and stated that it had serious intentions to purchase the ad time if the commercials were approved.\n\nIn October 2014, the NFL fined player Colin Kaepernick for wearing pink-colored Beats headphones (in observance of National Breast Cancer Awareness Month) during a post-game press conference, violating rules that prohibit players from displaying the logos of non-sponsors during games, practices, and pre/post-game media appearances. His actions infringed the exclusive sponsorship rights of Bose Corporation, who had become an official sponsor of the NFL as of the 2014 season. In response to the fine, Kaepernick covered the Beats logo on the headphones with athletic tape during a subsequent press conference.\n\nPrior to Super Bowl XLIX in Glendale, Arizona, the NFL filed an opposition to a trademark application for \"Superb Owl\", filed by the organizers of a local running event known as The Night Run. They had planned to hold a \"Superb Owl Shuffle 5K\" event on the morning of the game, in reference to the \"Superb Owl\" awards given out during The Night Run. The NFL felt that the trademark was likely to cause confusion with its Super Bowl trademarks, also noting that the event's website, superbowlshuffle.org, was confusingly similar to \"Super Bowl Shuffle\". The euphemism \"Superb Owl\" had also appeared as the result of user typos on search queries for the game, on the television series \"The Colbert Report\" as a satire of the NFL's trademark rules, and during the vandalism of commemorative statues that were put up in San Francisco during the lead-up to Super Bowl 50.\n\nIn September 2010, the Minnesota Timberwolves basketball team announced that they would install a large billboard sign for Sanford Health on the exterior of Target Center. The sign was placed so that it would be visible from within Target Field, home stadium of the Minnesota Twins baseball team. The Twins have a competing healthcare sponsorship with the Mayo Clinic. Although it is a city-owned venue, the Timberwolves had the right to sell advertising on the exterior of the arena. Twins president Dave St. Peter stated that the size of the sign was \"shocking\", while the timing of the change was criticized for occurring right before the start of the 2010 Major League Baseball postseason, which would bring national exposure to the venue and the sign. In October 2011, per an extension of Target Corporation's naming rights for the arena, the company was given control over its exterior. The Sanford Health sign was replaced by a new display featuring Target's dog mascot Bullseye, which animates after Twins home runs.\n\nThe Minnesota Vikings' U.S. Bank Stadium faced a similar controversy; because the Minneapolis offices of Wells Fargo, a rival to the new stadium's naming rights sponsor U.S. Bank, are located within the vicinity of the stadium, Wells Fargo agreed to only install \"non-mounted,\" non-illuminated signage on its building, such as letters painted directly onto the roof. After the original agreement was reached, Wells Fargo had asked the team to allow the installation of \"raised, illuminated lettering. mounted on beams more than a foot above the roof rather than painted on the roof as agreed upon\". Such signage would be visible in overhead views of U.S. Bank Stadium (such as camera shots during event telecasts), Wells Fargo threatened to light the entire rooftops of its offices if the Vikings chose to deny the requested change. In December 2015, the Vikings sued Wells Fargo for violating the agreement, after they began to construct an illuminated sign on their rooftop. On June 23, 2016, Judge Donovan W. Frank ruled in favor of the Vikings, and ordered Wells Fargo to remove the raised, illuminated signage.\n\nIn October 2011, Samsung ambushed the Australian launch of Apple's iPhone 4S smartphone by setting up a pop-up store near Sydney's Apple Store. At the store, the company sold its competing Galaxy S II to the first 10 people in line daily at a discount price of $2 AUD. Samsung similarly piggybacked the launch of its successor, the iPhone 5, to promote the Galaxy S III and Galaxy Note II; the company purchased keyword advertisements for the devices on major search engines, as well as Twitter and YouTube, thus causing ads for them to appear on searches relating to iPhone 5.\n\nThe Quebec-based home improvement chain Rona ambushed a billboard sign advertising another Apple product, the iPod Nano, by placing a banner for its paint recycling services that showed the paint from the devices in the Apple billboard above it falling into cans.\n\nMoves to control ambush marketing at events have been met with mixed reception: ambush marketing regulations enable the event organizer to prevent competitors from impeding on a company's exclusive rights to serve as an event's sponsor, thus making their sponsorship rights more lucrative. Laws enacted to control ambush advertising practices have proven to be controversial: critics have argued that ambush advertising regulations can inhibit free expression and prevent businesses (such as restaurants, sports bars, and pubs) from even mentioning an event, and that a country's existing trademark laws can be sufficient to protect organizers' intellectual property without granting them special powers.\n\nThe American Civil Liberties Union has opposed \"clean zone\" policies on several occasions; prior to both Super Bowl XLVII and the 2014 Major League Baseball All-Star Game, the organization respectively sued both the cities of New Orleans and Minneapolis for enforcing clean zone laws, arguing that they were unconstitutional for banning protected speech. In response to the lawsuit, New Orleans did amend its clean zone ordinance to allow non-commercial protected speech within the clean zones. The NFL has also received criticism for exaggerating the extent of its intellectual property rights under the laws of the United States, aggressively enforcing its trademarks, and failing to take the doctrine of fair use into account.\n\nDuring the lead-up to the 2012 Summer Olympics, the London Organising Committee of the Olympic and Paralympic Games (LOCOG) showed an infamously aggressive stance towards enforcing anti-ambush advertising regulations. The organizing committee's policies and the London Olympic Games and Paralympic Games Act 2006 were criticized by local politicians, along with the Chartered Institute of Marketing, for being overly broad, \"draconian,\" and unnecessary to enforce its exclusive trademark and sponsorship rights. The press described LOCOG as being a \"branding police\" due to these enforcement measures; EasyJet was told by a LOCOG representative that having Sally Gunnell reprise her pose with the Union Jack from the 1992 Games for an advertisement would constitute an unauthorized association, an art event known as \"The Great Exhibition 2012\" received threats from LOCOG for merely containing \"2012\" in its name, and athletes were asked to report ambush advertising activities on a special website. In contrast, LOCOG allowed the restaurant chain Little Chef to continue selling its popular \"Olympic Breakfast,\" owing to its long-standing use of the brand since 1994.\n\nIt was also argued by critics that LOCOG's policies made it unviable for smaller businesses to promote themselves using the Games, even in support of athletes, as they would need to evaluate whether their marketing materials violate the restrictions on unauthorized associations. Additionally, the architecture community strongly criticised the marketing restrictions, citing LOCOG's refusal to allow architectural firms to publicise their work on Olympic venues, including preventing the firms from entering national and international award competitions. LOCOG retained rights to all Olympic marks even after the end of the games until they were transferred to the British Olympic Association in 2013.\n\nDuring the 2016 U.S. Olympic track and field trials, the apparel company Oiselle received demands by the United States Olympic Committee (USOC) to remove social media posts congratulating its sponsored athlete Kate Grace on qualifying for the 2016 Summer Olympics. The USOC considered them to be unauthorized \"Olympic-related advertising\" because the photos attached to the posts depicted USOC trademarks, including the Olympic rings and the phrase \"Road to Rio\". Company CEO Sally Bergesen stated that future posts would remove or obscure references to these trademarks, but argued that their depiction were incidental because the offending material appeared in the venue and on the bibs worn by all athletes at the event, making it intractable to avoid depicting them in photos taken there. She also defended the postings as being news reporting on the achievements of its sponsored athletes, and not necessarily promotion for the brand itself. The onerous restrictions on the promotion of Olympic athletes were one of the factors behind the National Hockey League's decision to prohibit its players from participating in the men's ice hockey tournaments at the 2018 Winter Olympics.\n\nComedian Stephen Colbert satirized the USOC policies during a sketch on \"The Late Show\" aired on the eve of the 2016 opening ceremony, wherein he presented an image of five CBS logos arranged and coloured like the Olympic rings, and promoted the programme's new \"sponsor\", Musa Tea (a beverage \"brewed from the freshest mint in Morocco's Musa mountains\"), which is promoted using the hashtag \"#teamusa\". Colbert also satirized the NFL's \"Super Bowl\" trademarks in 2014 on his previous series, \"The Colbert Report\", where he referred to the game as the \"Superb Owl\", and remarked that \"we all know that the winner of the Big Game goes to Animated Mouse Theme Park.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27605484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27605484", "title": "Beard tax", "text": "Beard tax\n\nA beard tax is one of several taxes introduced throughout history on men who wear beards.\n\nIn 1535, King Henry VIII of England, who wore a beard himself, introduced a tax on beards. The tax was a graduated tax, varying with the wearer's social position. His daughter, Elizabeth I of England, reintroduced the beard tax, taxing every beard of more than two weeks' growth, although it was poorly enforced. Contemporary documentation of the Tudor beard tax, however, is lacking, and The National Archives has no record of such a tax having been instituted.\n\nIn 1698, Emperor Peter I of Russia instituted a beard tax to bring Russian society in line with Western European models. To enforce the ban on beards, the tsar empowered police to forcibly and publicly shave those who refused to pay the tax. Resistance to going clean shaven was widespread with many believing that it was a religious requirement for a man to wear a beard. The tax levied depended upon the status of the bearded man: Those associated with the Imperial Court, military, or government were charged 60 rubles annually; wealthy merchants were charged 100 rubles per year while other merchants and townsfolk were charged 60 rubles per year; Muscovites were charged 30 rubles per year; and peasants were charged two half-kopeks every time they entered a city.\n\nThose who paid the tax were required to carry a \"beard token\" (Бородовой знак). This was a copper or silver token with a Russian Eagle on the reverse and on the obverse the lower part of a face with nose, mouth, whiskers, and beard. Several different versions were minted between the issuance of the decree and its lifting in 1772. The common round version was inscribed with the words \"money taken\" (ДЕНГИ ВЗѦТЫ) on the obverse and the date in Cyrillic numerals (҂АѰЕ ГОДѸ, \"Year 1705\") on the reverse. A rhomboid version issued in 1725 was smooth on the reverse with the phrase \"beard tax taken\" (СБОРОДЫ ПОШЛИНА ВЗЯТА) on the obverse and \"the beard is a superfluous burden\" (БОРОДА ЛИШНѦѦ ТѦГОТА) on the edge. Walter Hawkins published a paper in 1845 illustrating an example of the token from his own collection, and describing the history of the tax in Russia.\n\n"}
{"id": "23776786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23776786", "title": "Boub v. Township of Wayne", "text": "Boub v. Township of Wayne\n\nBoub v. Township of Wayne is a ruling of the Illinois Supreme court made in 1998, where it was held that municipalities are not liable for the damage cyclists suffer on the poorly maintained roads. The cyclists were ruled \"permitted, but not intended, users of the roads\" in the state of Illinois. Under the state law, municipalities have a duty to maintain local roads in a safe condition. However they are liable for damages only if the use of a road was both permitted and intended. The justices were sharply divided on the issue—four of them voted for the decision and three against. The dissenters called the decision \"absurd and dangerous\".\n\nThe case originated from an incident on September 8, 1992 in which the cyclist Jon Boub was riding over a bridge in Township of Wayne. The bridge was being renovated at the time, and the asphalt had been partially removed from the road bed, revealing gaps between the wooden planks. When the front wheel of the Boub's bike \"became stuck between two of the planks\", he was thrown off the bike, hit the steel railing of the bridge, and received severe injuries. Boub sued the Township of Wayne on September 23, 1993 claiming negligence on the part of the municipality. The lawsuit was dismissed by the lower courts and subsequently appealed to the Supreme Court of Illinois.\n\nThe decision created a disincentive for Illinois municipalities to declare roads safe for cyclists. Over a seven-year period, the Illinois General Assembly tried several times to change the law, without success.\n"}
{"id": "181901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=181901", "title": "Camp David Accords", "text": "Camp David Accords\n\nThe Camp David Accords were signed by Egyptian President Anwar Sadat and Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin on 17 September 1978, following twelve days of secret negotiations at Camp David. The two framework agreements were signed at the White House, and were witnessed by United States President Jimmy Carter. The second of these frameworks (\"A Framework for the Conclusion of a Peace Treaty between Egypt and Israel\") led directly to the 1979 Egypt–Israel Peace Treaty. Due to the agreement, Sadat and Begin received the shared 1978 Nobel Peace Prize. The first framework (\"A Framework for Peace in the Middle East\"), which dealt with the Palestinian territories, was written without participation of the Palestinians and was condemned by the United Nations.\n\nCarter's and Secretary of State Cyrus Vance's exploratory meetings gave a basic plan for reinvigorating the peace process based on a Geneva Peace Conference and had presented three main objectives for Arab–Israeli peace: Arab recognition of Israel's right to exist in peace, Israel's withdrawal from occupied territories gained in the Six-Day War through negotiating efforts with neighboring Arab nations to ensure that Israel's security would not be threatened and securing an undivided Jerusalem.\n\nThe Camp David Accords were the result of 14 months of diplomatic efforts by Egypt, Israel, and the United States that began after Jimmy Carter became President. The efforts initially focused on a comprehensive resolution of disputes between Israel and the Arab countries, gradually evolving into a search for a bilateral agreement between Israel and Egypt.\n\nUpon assuming office on January 20, 1977, President Carter moved to rejuvenate the Middle East peace process that had stalled throughout the 1976 presidential campaign in the United States. Following the advice of a Brookings Institution report, Carter opted to replace the incremental, bilateral peace talks which had characterized Henry Kissinger's shuttle diplomacy following the 1973 Yom Kippur War with a comprehensive, multilateral approach. The Yom Kippur War further complicated efforts to achieve the objectives written in United Nations Security Council Resolution 242.\n\nIsrael's Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin and his successor, Menachem Begin, were both skeptical of an international conference. While Begin, who took office in May 1977, officially favored the reconvening of the conference, perhaps even more vocally than Rabin, and even accepted the Palestinian presence, in actuality the Israelis and the Egyptians were secretly formulating a framework for bilateral talks. Even earlier, Begin had not been opposed to returning the Sinai, but a major future obstacle was his firm refusal to consider relinquishing control over the West Bank.\n\nCarter visited the heads of state on whom he would have to rely to make any peace agreement feasible. By the end of his first year in office, he had already met with Anwar El Sadat of Egypt, King Hussein of Jordan, Hafez al-Assad of Syria, and Yitzhak Rabin of Israel. Despite the fact that he supported Sadat's peace initiative, King Hussein refused to take part in the peace talks; Begin offered Jordan little to gain and Hussein also feared he would isolate Jordan from the Arab world and provoke Syria and the PLO if he engaged in the peace talks as well. Hafez al-Assad, who had no particular interest in negotiating peace with Israel, also refused to come to the United States and only agreed to meet with Carter in Geneva.\n\nThe key to an arrangement between Begin and Sadat took place on Sunday, 6 August 1978, as a result of a telephone call made that morning to the Israeli Prime Minister's office by a United States citizen who had an \"idea for peace.\" The Prime Minister had not yet arrived at his office and the caller spoke to Mr. Yechiel Kadishai, a Begin staff head. Kadishai said that \"no one was speaking with anyone and we expect a war in October.\" He also told the caller that if any high level talks were to occur the caller could be assured that they would be using his approach. Begin arrived, was informed of the plan, and contacted Sadat who agreed to the plan on that day. On the next day, Secretary of State Cyrus Vance traveled to the Middle East to obtain firsthand confirmation of the agreement between Israel and Egypt. The following day, Tuesday, 8 August, the Camp David meeting was scheduled to take place in exactly 4 weeks time; on 5 September 1978. The plan was that Israel agreed on 6 August to return the land to Egypt. Sadat’s then waning popularity would be greatly enhanced as a result of such an achievement. Israel's security was insured by the specific activities to take place during the \"transition period.\" Those activities also were included in the \"idea for peace\" communicated to Begin's office on 6 August.\n\nPresident Anwar El Sadat came to feel that the Geneva track peace process was more show than substance, and was not progressing, partly due to disagreements with his Arab (mainly Syria, Libya, and Iraq) and his communist allies. He also lacked confidence in the Western powers to pressure Israel after a meeting with the Western leaders. His frustration boiled over, and after clandestine preparatory meetings between Egyptian and Israeli officials, unknown even to the NATO countries, in November 1977, Sadat became the first Arab leader to visit Israel.\n\nOn 9 November 1977, President Sadat startled the world by announcing to parliament his intention to go to Jerusalem and speak before the Knesset. Shortly afterward, the Israeli government cordially invited him to address the Knesset in a message passed to Sadat via the US ambassador to Egypt. Ten days after his speech, Sadat arrived for the groundbreaking three-day visit, which launched the first peace process between Israel and an Arab state. As would be the case with later Israeli–Arab peace initiatives, Washington was taken by surprise; the White House and State Department were particularly concerned that Sadat was merely reaching out to reacquire Sinai as quickly as possible, putting aside the Palestinian problem. Considered as a man with strong political convictions who kept his eye on the main objective, Sadat had no ideological base, which made him politically inconsistent. The Sadat visit came about after he delivered a speech in Egypt stating that he would travel anywhere, \"even Jerusalem,\" to discuss peace. That speech led the Begin government to declare that, if Israel thought that Sadat would accept an invitation, Israel would invite him. In Sadat's Knesset speech he talked about his views on peace, the status of Israel's occupied territories, and the Palestinian refugee problem. This tactic went against the intentions of both the West and the East, which were to revive the Geneva Conference.\n\nThe gesture stemmed from an eagerness to enlist the help of the NATO countries in improving the ailing Egyptian economy, a belief that Egypt should begin to focus more on its own interests than on the interests of the Arab world, and a hope that an agreement with Israel would catalyze similar agreements between Israel and her other Arab neighbors and help solve the Palestinian problem. Prime Minister Begin's response to Sadat's initiative, though not what Sadat or Carter had hoped, demonstrated a willingness to engage the Egyptian leader. Like Sadat, Begin also saw many reasons why bilateral talks would be in his country's best interests. It would afford Israel the opportunity to negotiate only with Egypt instead of with a larger Arab delegation that might try to use its size to make unwelcome or unacceptable demands. Israel felt Egypt could help protect Israel from other Arabs and Eastern communists. In addition, the commencement of direct negotiations between leaders – summit diplomacy – would distinguish Egypt from her Arab neighbors. Carter's people apparently had no inkling of the secret talks in Morocco between Dayan and Sadat's representative, Hassan Tuhami, that paved the way for Sadat's initiative. Indeed, in a sense Egypt and Israel were ganging up to push Carter off his Geneva track. The basic message of Sadat's speech at the Knesset were the request for the implementation of Resolutions 242 and 338. Sadat's visit was the first step to negotiations such as the preliminary Cairo Conference in December 1977.\n\nA mechanism had yet to be created for Israel and Egypt to pursue the talks begun by Sadat and Begin in Jerusalem. The Egyptian president suggested to Begin that Israel place a secret representative in the American embassy in Cairo. With American \"cover,\" the true identity of the Israeli, who would liaise between the Egyptian and Israeli leaders, would be known only to the American ambassador in Cairo.\n\nSadat's liaison initiative spoke volumes about his reasons for wanting to make peace with Israel. He wanted an alliance with the American superpower and he wanted to kill Carter's Geneva initiative. His trip to Jerusalem signaled a major reorientation of Cairo's place in the global scheme of things, from the Soviet to the American camp. Carter's acceptance of the proposed liaison scheme would have signaled American backing for Sadat's unprecedented peace initiative. But Carter said no. However, Carter could not thwart the Israeli-Egyptian peace push. Within days Israeli journalists were allowed into Cairo, breaking a symbolic barrier, and from there the peace process quickly gained momentum. An Israeli-Egyptian working summit was scheduled for 25 December in Ismailiya, near the Suez Canal.\n\nAccompanied by their capable negotiating teams and with their respective interests in mind, both leaders converged on Camp David for 13 days of tense and dramatic negotiations from 5 to 17 September 1978. By all accounts, Carter's relentless drive to achieve peace and his reluctance to allow the two men to leave without reaching an agreement are what played the decisive role in the success of the talks.\n\nCarter's advisers insisted on the establishment of an Egyptian-Israeli agreement which would lead to an eventual solution to the Palestine issue. They believed in a short, loose, and overt linkage between the two countries amplified by the establishment of a coherent basis for a settlement. However, Carter felt they were not \"aiming high enough\" and was interested in the establishment of a written \"land for peace\" agreement with Israel returning the Sinai Peninsula and West Bank. Numerous times both the Egyptian and Israeli leaders wanted to scrap negotiations, only to be lured back into the process by personal appeals from Carter. Considered as an excellent mediator who arbitrated concessions with confidence, he played a tireless commitment to find formulas, definitions, and solutions to the many intricate variables, regardless of perceived or real political limitations, and was capable of soothing fears and anxieties, always with the goal of keeping the negotiations going. He gradually understood the importance historical events had upon determining personal ideology, but he would not allow it to constrain his political options, and he did not want them to limit the options of those with whom he was negotiating.\n\nBegin and Sadat had such mutual antipathy toward one another that they only seldom had direct contact; thus Carter had to conduct his own microcosmic form of shuttle diplomacy by holding one-on-one meetings with either Sadat or Begin in one cabin, then returning to the cabin of the third party to relay the substance of his discussions. Begin and Sadat were \"literally not on speaking terms,\" and \"claustrophobia was setting in.\"\nA particularly difficult situation arose on the tenth stalemated day of the talks. The issues of Israeli settlement withdrawal from the Sinai and the status of the West Bank created what seemed to be an impasse. In response, Carter had the choice of trying to salvage the agreement by conceding the issue of the West Bank to Begin, while advocating Sadat's less controversial position on the removal of all settlements from the Sinai Peninsula. Or he could have refused to continue the talks, reported the reasons for their failure, and allowed Begin to bear the brunt of the blame.\n\nCarter chose to continue and for three more days negotiated. During this time, Carter even took the two leaders to the nearby Gettysburg National Military Park in the hopes of using the American Civil War as a simile to their own struggle.\n\nConsequently, the 13 days marking the Camp David Accords were considered a success. Partly due to Carter's determination in obtaining an Israeli-Egyptian agreement, a full two-week pledge to a singular international problem. Additionally, Carter was beneficiary to a fully pledged American foreign team. Likewise, the Israeli delegation had a stable of excellent talent in Ministers Dayan and Weizman and legal experts Dr. Meir Rosenne and Aharon Barak. Furthermore, the absence of the media contributed to the Accord's successes: there were no possibilities provided to either leader to reassure his political body or be driven to conclusions by members of his opposition. An eventual scrap of negotiations by either leader would have proven disastrous, resulting in taking the blame for the summit's failure as well as a disassociation from the White House. Ultimately, neither Begin nor Sadat was willing to risk those eventualities. Both of them had invested enormous amounts of political capital and time to reach an agreement.\n\nThe Camp David Accords comprise two separate agreements: \"A Framework for Peace in the Middle East\" and \"A Framework for the Conclusion of a Peace Treaty between Egypt and Israel\", the second leading towards the Egypt–Israel Peace Treaty signed in March 1979. The agreements and the peace treaty were both accompanied by \"side-letters\" of understanding between Egypt and the U.S. and Israel and the U.S.\n\nThe preamble of the \"Framework for Peace in the Middle East\" starts with the basis of a peaceful settlement of the Arab–Israeli conflict:\n\n\"The agreed basis for a peaceful settlement of the conflict between Israel and its neighbors is United Nations Security Council Resolution 242, in all its parts.\"\n\nThe framework itself consists of 3 parts. The first part of the framework was to establish an autonomous self-governing authority in the West Bank and the Gaza strip and to fully implement Resolution 242. The Accords recognized the \"legitimate rights of the Palestinian people\", a process was to be implemented guaranteeing the full autonomy of the people within a period of five years. \"Begin\" insisted on the adjective \"full\" to confirm that it was the maximum political right attainable. This full autonomy was to be discussed with the participation of Israel, Egypt, Jordan and the Palestinians. The withdrawal of Israeli troops from the West Bank and Gaza was agreed to occur after an election of a self-governing authority to replace Israel's military government. The Accords did not mention the Golan Heights, Syria, or Lebanon. This was not the comprehensive peace that Kissinger, Ford, Carter, or Sadat had in mind during the previous American presidential transition.\nIt was less clear than the agreements concerning the Sinai, and was later interpreted differently by Israel, Egypt, and the United States. The fate of Jerusalem was deliberately excluded from this agreement.\n\nThe second part of the framework dealt with Egyptian–Israeli relations, the real content worked out in the second Egypt—Israel framework. The third part, \"Associated Principles,\" declared principles that should apply to relations between Israel and all of its Arab neighbors.\n\n\nThe framework merely concerned autonomy of the inhabitants of West Bank and Gaza. It neither mentions the status of Jerusalem, nor the Palestinian Right of Return.\n\nThe UN General Assembly rejected the \"Framework for Peace in the Middle East\", because the agreement was concluded without participation of UN and PLO and did not comply with the Palestinian right of return, of self-determination and to national independence and sovereignty. December 1978, it declared in \"Resolution 33/28 A\", that agreements were only valid if they are within the framework of the United Nations and its Charter and its resolutions, include the Palestinian right of return and the right to national independence and sovereignty in Palestine, and concluded with the participation of the PLO. Also the passive attitude of the Security Council was criticised. On 6 December 1979, the UN condemned in \"Resolution 34/70\" all partial agreements and separate treaties that did not meet the Palestinian rights and comprehensive solutions to peace; it condemned Israel's continued occupation and demanded withdrawal from \"all\" occupied territories. On 12 December, in \"Resolution 34/65 B\", she rejected more specific parts of the Camp David Accords and similar agreements, which were not in accordance with mentioned requirements. All such partial agreements and separate treaties were strongly condemned. The part of the Camp David accords regarding the Palestinian future and all similar ones were declared invalid.\n\nThe second framework outlined a basis for the peace treaty six months later, in particular deciding the future of the Sinai peninsula. Israel agreed to withdraw its armed forces from the Sinai, evacuate its 4,500 civilian inhabitants, and restore it to Egypt in return for normal diplomatic relations with Egypt, guarantees of freedom of passage through the Suez Canal and other nearby waterways (such as the Straits of Tiran), and a restriction on the forces Egypt could place on the Sinai peninsula, especially within 20–40 km from Israel. This process would take three years to complete. Israel also agreed to limit its forces a smaller distance (3 km) from the Egyptian border, and to guarantee free passage between Egypt and Jordan. With the withdrawal, Israel also returned Egypt's Abu-Rudeis oil fields in western Sinai, which contained long term, commercially productive wells.\n\nThe agreement also resulted in the United States committing to several billion dollars worth of annual subsidies to the governments of both Israel and Egypt, subsidies which continue to this day, and are given as a mixture of grants and aid packages committed to purchasing U.S. materiel. From 1979 (the year of the peace agreement) to 1997, Egypt received military aid of annually, which also helped modernize the Egyptian military. (This is beyond economic, humanitarian, and other aid, which has totaled more than .) Eastern-supplied until 1979, Egypt now received American weaponry such as the M1A1 Abrams Tank, AH-64 Apache gunship and the F-16 fighter jet. In comparison, Israel has received annually since 1985 in grants and military aid packages.\n\nThe time that has elapsed since the Camp David Accords has left no doubt as to their enormous ramifications on Middle Eastern politics. Most notably, the perception of Egypt within the Arab world changed. With the most powerful of the Arab militaries and a history of leadership in the Arab world under Nasser, Egypt had more leverage than any of the other Arab states to advance Arab interests. Egypt was subsequently suspended from the Arab League from 1979 until 1989.\n\nWhen the Camp David accords were signed, Jordan's King Hussein saw it as a slap to the face when Sadat volunteered Jordan's participation in deciding how functional autonomy would work. More specifically, Sadat effectively said that Jordan would have a role in how the West Bank would be administered. Like the Rabat Summit Resolution, the Camp David Accords circumscribed Jordan's objective to reassert its control over the West Bank. Focusing as it did on Egypt, the Carter administration accepted Sadat's claim that he could deliver Hussein. However, with Arab world opposition building against Sadat, Jordan could not risk accepting the Accords without the support from powerful Arab neighbours, like Iraq, Saudi Arabia, and Syria. Hussein consequently felt diplomatically snubbed. One of Carter's regrets was allowing Sadat to claim that he could speak for Hussein if Jordan refused to join the talks, but by then the damage was done to the Jordanians.\n\nThe Camp David Accords also prompted the disintegration of a united Arab front in opposition to Israel. Egypt's realignment created a power vacuum that Saddam Hussein of Iraq, at one time only a secondary power, hoped to fill. Because of the vague language concerning the implementation of Resolution 242, the Palestinian problem became the primary issue in the Arab–Israeli conflict immediately following the Camp David Accords (and, arguably, until today). Many of the Arab nations blamed Egypt for not putting enough pressure on Israel to deal with the Palestinian problem in a way that would be satisfactory to them. Syria also informed Egypt that it would not reconcile with the nation unless it abandoned the peace agreement with Israel.\n\nAccording to \"The Continuum Political Encyclopedia of the Middle East\":\n\nThe normalization of relations [between Israel and Egypt] went into effect in January 1980. Ambassadors were exchanged in February. The boycott laws were repealed by Egypt's National Assembly the same month, and some trade began to develop, albeit less than Israel had hoped for. In March 1980 regular airline flights were inaugurated. Egypt also began supplying Israel with crude oil\".\n\nAccording to Kenneth Stein in \"Heroic Diplomacy: Sadat, Kissinger, Carter, Begin, and the Quest for Arab–Israeli Peace\":\n\nThe Accords were another interim agreement or step, but negotiations that flowed from the Accords slowed for several reasons. These included an inability to bring the Jordanians into the discussions; the controversy over settlements; the inconclusive nature of the subsequent autonomy talks; domestic opposition sustained by both Begin and Sadat and, in Sadat's case, ostracism and anger from the Arab world; the emergence of a what became a cold peace between Egypt and Israel; and changes in foreign policy priorities including discontinuity in personnel committed to sustaining the negotiating process[.]\n\nLastly, the biggest consequence of all may be in the psychology of the participants of the Arab-Israeli conflict. The success of Begin, Sadat, and Carter at Camp David demonstrated to other Arab states and entities that negotiations with Israel were possible—that progress results only from sustained efforts at communication and cooperation. Despite the disappointing conclusion of the 1993 Oslo Accords between the PLO and Israel, and even though the 1994 Israel–Jordan peace treaty has not fully normalized relations with Israel, both of these significant developments had little chance of occurring without the precedent set by Camp David.\n\nAlthough most Israelis supported the Accords, the Israeli settler movement opposed them because Sadat would not agree to a treaty in which Israel had any presence in the Sinai Peninsula at all, Israel had to withdraw from the entire Sinai Peninsula. Israeli settlers tried to prevent the government from dismantling their settlements.\n\nIn Israel, there is lasting support of the Camp David Peace Accords, which have become a national consensus, supported by 85% of Israelis according to a 2001 poll taken by the Jaffee Center for Strategic Studies (Israel based). Nevertheless, a minority of Israelis believe the price Israel paid for the peace agreement was too high for its present gains, i.e. having relinquished the entire Sinai Peninsula, with its oil, tourism and land resources (Israel has no other oil wells), and the trauma of evacuating thousands of its Israeli inhabitants (many resisted, as in the settlement of Yamit and had to be forcefully evacuated, a phenomenon encountered also in the subsequent Israeli withdrawal from Gaza in 2005, known as the disengagement).\n\nFor Israel, perhaps the most evident tangible benefit of the agreement with Egypt (other than the subsequent U.S. aid, which Egypt also received) was a peaceful mutual border, enabling the Israel Defense Forces to reduce their levels of alert on Israel's southwestern frontier.\n\nAlthough Egypt and Israel generally abided by the agreement since 1978, in the following years a common belief emerged in Israel that the peace with Egypt is a \"cold peace\". Others feel that the peace agreement was between the Israeli people and Egypt's charismatic President Anwar El Sadat, rather than with the Egyptian people, who were not given the opportunity to accept or reject the agreement with a free vote or a representative majority.\n\nPresident Sadat's signing of the Camp David Accords on 17 September 1978 and his shared 1978 Nobel Peace Prize with Israeli Prime Minister Begin led to his assassination on 6 October 1981 by members of the Egyptian Islamic Jihad during the annual victory parade held in Cairo to celebrate Egypt's crossing of the Suez Canal. The president's personal protection was infiltrated by four members of this organization, who were hiding in a truck passing through the military parade with other military vehicles. As the truck approached the president, the leader of the belligerents — Lieutenant Khalid Islambouli — came out of the truck and threw three grenades towards the president; only one of the three exploded. The rest of the team opened fire with automatic assault rifles and struck President Sadat with 37 rounds. He was airlifted to a military hospital where, despite the efforts of 11 doctors and surgeons, he died just two hours after arriving.\n\nIn total, 11 were killed from collateral gunfire and 28 were injured. Among the killed were the Cuban ambassador, an Omani general, and a Coptic Orthodox bishop. Among the wounded were Egyptian Vice-President Hosni Mubarak, Irish Defence Minister James Tully, and four U.S. military liaison officers. One of the assassins was killed and the other three were wounded and taken into custody. The surviving assassins were tried and found guilty of assassinating the president and killing 10 others in the process; they were sentenced to capital punishment and were executed by firing squad on 15 April 1982.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31309566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31309566", "title": "Commerce Act 1986", "text": "Commerce Act 1986\n\nThe Commerce Act 1986 is a statute of New Zealand. It prohibits conduct that restricts competition and purchase of shares or assets where that would lessen competition in a market.\n\nAs well as generally governing markets, the Act gives the Commerce Commission particular powers in relation to services provided by electricity lines businesses, gas pipeline businesses and airports.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4111846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4111846", "title": "Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism", "text": "Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism\n\nThe Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism 2005 (CECPT) is a regional multilateral treaty negotiated under the auspices of the Council of Europe. It was concluded in Warsaw on 16 May 2005. Most notable amongst its provisions are the three new offences which it defines: Public Provocation to Commit a \"Terrorist Offence\"; Solicitation of Persons to Commit \"Terrorist Offences\"; and Provision of Training For \"Terrorist Offences\". Parties are required to establish these offences in their national legal systems. However the obligation only applies in respect of behaviour where there is an international nexus of some sort. A \"terrorist offence\" is defined as any of the offences defined under the 12 existing international conventions on terrorism presently in force.\n\nThe most controversial part of the CECPT is its definition of Public Provocation to Commit a Terrorist Offence. Article 5 of the CECPT defines this as intentionally distributing \"a message to the public, with the intent to incite the commission of a 'terrorist offence', where such conduct, whether or not directly advocating terrorist offences, causes a danger that one or more terrorist offences may be committed.\"\n\nThis is the first attempt in an international law context to define \"incitement\" to terrorism. It is controversial most notably because of the inclusion of “indirect” incitement. The limits of this concept are not defined in the CECPT. Article 12 of the CECPT requires parties to implement, and apply the offence in a way which is compatible with the Right to freedom of Expression as recognised in International Law [See Article 10 of the European Convention of Human Rights, and Article 19 of the UN’s International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights ]. There is some evidence that in a purported fulfilment of their obligations under the CECPT, States are going further than the CECPT and the relevant Human Rights principles would require or permit. See for example the British Terrorism Act 2006, section 1.\n\nThe CECPT is open for signature by the member states of the Council of Europe, the European Community, and by non-member states which have participated in its elaboration. It came into force on 1 June 2007 in Albania, Bulgaria, Romania, Russia, Slovakia, and Ukraine; as of July 2016 it has been ratified by 35 states. A further 10 states and the European Union have signed but not ratified the Convention.\n\n"}
{"id": "4208972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4208972", "title": "County Police Act 1839", "text": "County Police Act 1839\n\nThe County Police Act 1839 (2 & 3 Vict c 93) (also known as the Rural Police Act or the Rural Constabularies Act) was an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It was one of the Police Acts 1839 to 1893. The Act enabled Justices of the Peace in England and Wales to establish police forces in their counties. The Act was not compulsory, and constabularies were only established in 25 out of 55 counties by 1856, when the County and Borough Police Act 1856 made their provision mandatory.\n\nThe legislation was based on the recommendations of a royal commission appointed in 1836 to \"inquire into the best means of establishing an efficient constabulary force in the counties of England and Wales\". The three members of the commission, or \"Constabulary Commissioners\" as they were informally called were Colonel Charles Rowan, Commissioner of the Metropolitan Police, Edwin Chadwick and Charles Shaw Lefevre. The commission was appointed against a background of unrest and violence in some areas of the country, with protests against the New Poor Law and agitation by Chartists for social and political reform. Chadwick was strongly in favour of the creation of a single centralised force, but this was opposed by not only the two other commissioners but also by the Home Secretary, Lord John Russell. Russell wrote to the magistrates of the various counties asking them to support the resolution passed in Shropshire to establish a body of constables paid for out of the county rate and under the control of the magistrates. The commission's report, issued in 1839, followed the lines favoured by Russell. It recommended that \"a properly trained and equipped preventative police force\" based on the pattern of the existing Metropolitan Police, should be established in all counties where the magistrates were in favour. Each force should be funded mostly by local rates, with 25% of the cost met by central government. The force would be under the supervision of the county magistrates, who would have the power to employ or remove officers, subject to statutory regulations.\n\nThe Act allowed Justices of the Peace of any county, in general or quarter sessions, to appoint constables \"for the preservation of the peace and protection of the inhabitants\" where they felt the existing system of parish constables was insufficient.\n\nThe constables were to be appointed on a ratio of not more than one officer per one thousand of population. Boroughs operating under the Municipal Corporations Act 1835 had the power to form their own police force and were to be excluded from the jurisdiction of the county police.\n\nIn each county where the Act was adopted a Chief Constable was to be appointed. Where a county was divided into two parliamentary divisions by the Reform Act 1832, a chief constable could be appointed to each division. It was also permitted for one chief constable to be appointed to two or more neighbouring counties.\n\nFor the purposes of the Act all county exclaves were to be part of the county by which they were surrounded, or with which they had the longest common boundary. All franchises or liberties, other than reformed boroughs were also to come under the county police.\n\nA \"county\" for the purposes of the Act was defined as being \"any County, Riding or Division having a separate Court of Quarter Sessions of the Peace or in which separate County Rates are made\". The Act was not to extend to the Metropolitan Police District.\n\nIn order to establish a force in a county, it was necessary for three or more magistrates to make requisition to the chairman of the quarter sessions to bring the matter to a vote. If the sessions chose to adopt the act they were obliged to prepare a report on the area and population of the county and the existing method of policing. The report would set out how it was proposed to apply the legislation to the county, detailing the number of constables, the divisions of the county and the salaries to be paid and making any additional rules and regulations deemed necessary. The report was then submitted for approval to the Home Secretary who could modify parts of the scheme but did not have the power to alter the number of constables or their salaries. The sessions had the power to choose a chief constable, but his appointment was also subject to the approval of the Home Secretary. In some cases magistrates chose to form a force in only part of a county.\n\nThe first county to form a constabulary under the 1839 Act was Wiltshire. On 13 November the court of quarter sessions agreed to adopt the act, and on 28 November appointed Commander Samuel Meredith, Royal Navy as chief constable. The appointment was approved on 5 December, and Wiltshire's example was quickly followed by Gloucestershire, Worcestershire and Durham.\n\nWithin a few months of the first county constabularies being formed, a number of problems with the legislation became apparent. Accordingly, the Hon. Fox Maule introduced a bill to the House of Commons in February 1840. Maule outlined the problems:\n\n\"...difficulties had arisen from the mode of payment provided for carrying into effect the regulations of the act, by levying it out of the county rates; a difficulty as to that provision had arisen in various counties, in which certain districts only had adopted the act. In counties, also, in which there were isolated portions of other counties, it was difficult to say how those isolated portions were to be dealt with, because they were incorporated in the police districts of another county than that in which they were rated for the payment...\"\n\nThe bill was enacted as the County Police Act 1840 (3&4 Vict., c. 88). It provided \"inter alia\" for the voluntary merging of borough police forces with county constabularies and the levying of a new \"police rate\".\n\nThe main provisions of the Act were:\n\nBy 1851 constabularies had been formed to cover all or part of the following counties:\n"}
{"id": "9499421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9499421", "title": "Criminal deportation", "text": "Criminal deportation\n\nAt law, criminal deportation is where an alien is ordered deported or physically removed from a country by reason of such alien's criminal conduct.\n\nFollowing the 1993 World Trade Center bombing and the Oklahoma City bombing in 1995, U.S. President Bill Clinton signed the Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act (AEDPA), the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act (IIRIRA), which made deportation mandatory for certain aliens sentenced to a year or more of imprisonment for an aggravated felony conviction.\n\nIn 2003, the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) was abolished and replaced by the now Department of Homeland Security (DHS). In 2004, the DHS launched Operation Endgame, a strategy to remove all deportable aliens. In 2005, a Homeland Security Spending Bill increased funds for immigration law enforcement to ten billion dollars, significantly raising the number of border patrol agents, immigration investigators and interior detention personnel.\n\nIn 2006, Congress began considering more reform proposals that would impose even harsher restrictions for aliens who have broken the law and expand the definition of deportable crimes even further. As a result, minor past offenses can increasingly be used as grounds for expulsion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12186700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12186700", "title": "Danish constitutional referendum, 1939", "text": "Danish constitutional referendum, 1939\n\nA constitutional referendum was held in Denmark on 23 May 1939. Voters were asked whether they approved of a new constitution. Although it was approved by 91.9% of those who voted, a turnout of only 48.9% meant that the percentage of eligible voters approving it was only 44.46%, below the 45% required by the existing constitution of 1915.\n\nThe two primary changes in the proposed constitution from 1939 was lowering the electoral age from 25 to 23 years, and replacing the Landsting with a new chamber of parliament, the Rigsting. Additionally, the united parliament () consisting of the members of the two other chambers was to become a third chamber of parliament. The united parliament would handle the more important types of bills, including the Budget and proposed changes to the constitution. Other bills could be proposed in either the Folketing or the Rigsting, and in order to pass they would have to go through three readings in the chamber, in which they were proposed, and two readings in the other. This would have been a simplification of the existing process where all bills had to go through three readings in each of the two chambers.\n\nThe Danish constitution was finally altered to its present form following a 1953 referendum.\n"}
{"id": "9809895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9809895", "title": "Declaration of mailing", "text": "Declaration of mailing\n\nA declaration of mailing is a legal form verifying that a document has been sent via mail to a third party, usually required to be sent with documents as proof to a judge or clerk that a set of documents has been mailed. This may be to an individual or group, or attorneys relating to a particular issue. It requires that legally once signed a document has been sent; and if broken the sending party may be liable to charges of perjury or contempt of court.\n\nThe document is usually a short form with the following indicated information:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2348782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2348782", "title": "Default judgment", "text": "Default judgment\n\nDefault judgment is a binding judgment in favor of either party based on some failure to take action by the other party. Most often, it is a judgment in favor of a plaintiff when the defendant has not responded to a summons or has failed to appear before a court of law. The failure to take action is the default. The default judgment is the relief requested in the party's original petition.\n\nDefault can be compared to a forfeit victory in sports. In a civil trial involving damages, a default judgment will enter the amount of damages pleaded in the original complaint. If proof of damages is required, the court may schedule another hearing on that issue. A party can have a default judgment vacated, or set aside, by filing a motion, after the judgment is entered, by showing of a proper excuse.\n\nIn England and Wales, a Claimant starts a case by issuing a Claim Form. This either states a monetary figure on it, together with fixed costs and court fees; alternatively if the amount cannot be determined, it will be for an amount 'to be assessed'. A Claimant may not wish to recover money at all, in which case the Claim Form states this.\n\nThe Claim Form (together with other documents, known as \"Particulars of Claim\" and a \"Response Pack\") are served on the Defendant.\n\nIf the Defendant fails to reply within 14 days of service, the Claimant can apply for Judgment in Default, either by simply requesting the court's administrative staff enter judgment \"filing a request for judgment\" (which is sufficient for routine cases), or by making a formal application to the Procedural Judge. The judgment is known as \"Judgment in Default of Acknowledgment of Service\".\n\nIf the Defendant did acknowledge to the court that the papers were served within the 14-day period, then the Defendant is given 28 days to take a further step. If the Defendant fails to do so, again judgment can be entered as above; this time formally known as \"Judgment in Default of Defense\".\n\nIf money is claimed, the Claimant can choose how their judgment will be phrased. Almost always there will be a request that the money claimed, the court fee, and interest at 8% on the money from when the Claim Form was issued up until date of judgment, and if legally represented a fixed contribution to legal costs, be ordered to be paid immediately. However, the Claimant could simply request the Defendant be ordered to pay at a later date or in installments.\n\nIf money is claimed but the amount is not fixed, a \"Disposal Hearing\" is listed to determine the amount of money.\n\nIf any other remedy is claimed, the Claimant would have had to apply to the procedural judge for the Judgment in Default, and therefore the Judge will determine what happens next.\n\nJudgments in Default are covered by Part 12 of the Civil Procedure Rules 1998\n\nThe judgment is binding and failure to comply with it means that enforcement action could be taken.\n\nThe Defendant's name is also entered onto a register (although if they pay within a month it will be removed) which is open to everyone, and is particularly used to vet the credit-worthiness of people.\n\nIn the case of \"Masters -v- Leaver\"[1999]EWCA Civ 2016 it was held that a judgment in default means just that - it is a judgment obtained due to default. It does not mean that the court has agreed with what was claimed, or favors one or other case. Therefore if the issue arises again, the Defendant is not prevented from arguing the facts again.\n\nThat case also refers to Texas and US law being similar, although of course the English Court has no jurisdiction to determine that point.\n\nIf a Defendant accepts the judgment, and the amount, but is unable to pay, the Defendant may apply to \"Vary\" the judgment. A process is gone through whereby the Defendant states how soon they can afford to pay the debt (usually monthly installments) and the Claimant can either accept this, or request another amount. The court's staff will suggest a figure and ultimately a District Judge (N.B. In England and Wales a District Judge is one of the lowest levels of judge) will make a decision. The decision is binding, even if it means the Claimant is out of their money for a considerable amount of time, and even if interest cannot be charged on the outstanding sum (which it usually can't).\n\nThere are three grounds for canceling ('setting aside') the Default judgment.\n\nIn the last circumstance of the above, the Defendant can get the judgment canceled as of right. Otherwise, the Defendant needs to show what their Defense will be, and if the court thinks that the defendant is effectively 'stalling for time' they will not get the judgment set aside.\n\nIn practice an application to set aside Default Judgment is almost always granted. This fact is seized upon by so-called 'credit repair' companies. A person whose credit record is adversely affected by a registered judgment pays a credit repair company who advises them how to apply to have it set aside. This is usually of little effect: the judgment will be re-entered very quickly if there is no actual defense, and there are usually other records which affect a person's credit rating, not just the judgment.\n\nPragmatic reasons why judgments are set aside are mainly because on balance, it is seen as better to give a person who may have a good defense extra time, and avoid a potentially devastating judgment, and thereby keep a claimant out of their money for a further two to four weeks, than give the claimant the benefit.\n\nHowever the court can, and often does, order conditions to be satisfied, such as a draft defense being filed first, money paid into court, or similar conditions.\n\nSetting aside Judgment in Default is covered by Part 13 of the Civil Procedure Rules.\n\nIn the United States the law relating to a default judgment depends upon the jurisdiction within which the civil action was filed. State courts, United States Federal Courts, Tribal Courts and many Administrative Agencies have their own laws and local procedural rules relating to the granting and setting aside of a default judgment. The Federal Rules of Civil Procedure (Rules 55 and 60) are the basis for many procedures in default. Federal Rule 37(b)(iii) states that a balky plaintiff can be found in default and have his case dismissed if the plaintiff repeatedly fails to comply with things like court orders and discovery requests.\n\nTypically, the plaintiff (or cross-complainant, cross-plaintiff, counter-claimant, counter-plaintiff, third-party plaintiff, etc.) must show that service of process was effected on the defendant (cross-defendant, counter-defendant, cross-defendant, third-party defendant, etc.). This is typically achieved by the filing of an affidavit of service (also known as a proof of service), which gives enough information to allow the court to confirm that valid service has been accomplished. Typically the affidavit states, under oath or penalty of perjury, that service was effected on a named defendant, briefly describes how it was effected, names the person who made service, and gives the place and date service was effected. Once the requisite time to respond to the complaint has passed, the defendant is \"in default\"; this may be automatic, or it may require the court clerk to enter the default (which may, in turn, require that the plaintiff request entry of the default). Some defaults do not take effect until a set period of time after the clerk acts. The clerk may have to give the defendant notice of his default, affording a chance to have the default vacated.\n\nThe entry of a default typically prevents the defaulted defendant from litigating his case or presenting evidence, and may excuse the other parties from giving him notice of further proceedings.\n\nA defaulted defendant may move the court from relief from his default, but usually must do so promptly and must provide \"good cause\" for his failure to answer the complaint in time. Often, part of the procedure for relief from default involves the defendant filing an answer to the complaint. The defendant relieved from default may also be required to pay any extra costs and fees incurred by the plaintiff as a result of the delay in the defendant's filing his answer.\n\nOften, a certain additional time is required before a default judgment is permissible, and there may need to be additional notice to the defendant. Some states do not allow a default judgment to be entered against some defendants while other defendants are actively litigating the same case; this is an application of the \"one final judgment\" rule. Others will allow \"several judgment\" (judgment with respect to some defendants at one time, and with respect to others at another time), at least under some circumstances.\n\nUnited States law (specifically the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act) significantly restricts default judgments against members of the military services. The law requires that before a default judgment may be entered, the plaintiff must make a certification as to the military service status of the defendant whose default is sought. This certification may be made in the complaint, in a document filed with the proof of service, or later. Depending on the circumstances, other requirements may also apply.\n\nSome jurisdictions allow a clerk of court to enter default judgment in certain simple cases. These typically involve no exercise of judgment or discretion. Otherwise, a default judgment must be issued by a judge, who may require the plaintiff to present proof of his claims.\n\nA defendant who has had a default judgment entered against him may move for an order vacating the judgment. Such a defendant must show \"good cause\" for his not having responded to the complaint. However, \"good cause\" is rather easy to meet, compared to other instances where \"good cause\" might be required. For example, mere \"excusable neglect\" is, at least at the federal level, a sufficient reason to vacate default judgments. There are often time limits and other requirements.\n\nSewer service, where a default judgement is obtained by fraud by not properly notifying the defendant that they are being sued, may result in a motion to vacate the default judgement, a civil lawsuit against a dishonest plaintiff or process server, or criminal charges for swearing a false affidavit.\n\nA court entertaining a motion to vacate a default judgment often considers the reasons presented the defendant's failure to respond (such as \"excusable neglect\" and the prejudice that might be suffered by the other party). The court must weigh these factors in light of two competing considerations: the general preference for cases to be decided \"on the merits\", and the important need for \"finality in litigation.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47346059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47346059", "title": "Depository Library Act of 1962", "text": "Depository Library Act of 1962\n\nDepository Library Act of 1962 is a federal statute revising the depository library laws passed in the United States from 1895 to 1939. The Act of Congress mandated the availability of U.S. government publications through the Superintendent of Documents for public information. The statute established requirements for two depository libraries as allocated by U.S. Congressional representatives per their respective congressional districts. The U.S. federal law provided provisions appointing land-grant colleges and the United States service academies as depository libraries for U.S. government publications. The 87th U.S. Congressional legislation authorized regional depository libraries allocating two depository libraries per U.S. state as defined by a United States Senator. The Act repealed Public Law 76-281 designating the United States Coast Guard Academy library as a depository of U.S. government publications while redelegating the New London, Connecticut office of the Superintendent of Documents.\n\nChronological timeline of depository library laws revised by the Depository Library Act of 1962.\n\n"}
{"id": "579322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=579322", "title": "FCC fairness doctrine", "text": "FCC fairness doctrine\n\nThe fairness doctrine of the United States Federal Communications Commission (FCC), introduced in 1949, was a policy that required the holders of broadcast licenses both to present controversial issues of public importance and to do so in a manner that was—in the FCC's view—honest, equitable, and balanced. The FCC eliminated the policy in 1987 and removed the rule that implemented the policy from the \"Federal Register\" in August 2011.\n\nThe fairness doctrine had two basic elements: It required broadcasters to devote some of their airtime to discussing controversial matters of public interest, and to air contrasting views regarding those matters. Stations were given wide latitude as to how to provide contrasting views: It could be done through news segments, public affairs shows, or editorials. The doctrine did not require equal time for opposing views but required that contrasting viewpoints be presented. The demise of this FCC rule has been considered by some to be a contributing factor for the rising level of party polarization in the United States.\n\nThe main agenda for the doctrine was to ensure that viewers were exposed to a diversity of viewpoints. In 1969 the United States Supreme Court upheld the FCC's general \"right\" to enforce the fairness doctrine where channels were limited. But the courts did not rule that the FCC was \"obliged\" to do so. The courts reasoned that the scarcity of the broadcast spectrum, which limited the opportunity for access to the airwaves, created a need for the doctrine.\n\nThe fairness doctrine is not the same as the equal-time rule. The fairness doctrine deals with discussion of controversial issues, while the equal-time rule deals only with political candidates.\n\nIn 1938, a former Yankee Network employee named Lawrence J. Flynn challenged the license of John Shepard III's WAAB in Boston, and also lodged a complaint about WNAC. Flynn asserted that these stations were being used to air one-sided political viewpoints and broadcast attacks (including editorials) against local [and federal] politicians that Shepard opposed. The FCC requested that Shepard provide details about these programs, and to appease the commission, the Yankee Network agreed to drop the editorials. But Flynn created a company called Mayflower Broadcasting and tried to get the FCC to award him WAAB's license; however, the FCC refused. Instead, in 1941, the commission made a ruling that came to be known as the Mayflower Decision which declared that radio stations, due to their public interest obligations, must remain neutral in matters of news and politics, and they were not allowed to give editorial support to any particular political position or candidate.\n\nIn 1949, the FCC’s Editorializing Report repealed the Mayflower Doctrine, which had forbidden editorializing on the radio since 1941, and laid the foundation for the Fairness Doctrine by reaffirming the FCC's holding that licensees must not use their stations “for the private interest, whims or caprices [of licensees], but in a manner which will serve the community generally.” The FCC Report established two forms of regulation on broadcasters: to provide adequate coverage of public issues, and to ensure that coverage fairly represented opposing views. The second rule required broadcasters to provide reply time to issue-oriented citizens. Broadcasters could therefore trigger Fairness Doctrine complaints without editorializing. The commission required neither of the Fairness Doctrine's obligations before 1949. Until then broadcasters had to satisfy only general “public interest” standards of the Communications Act.\n\nThe doctrine remained a matter of general policy and was applied on a case-by-case basis until 1967, when certain provisions of the doctrine were incorporated into FCC regulations.\n\nIn a 1969 textbook case, the United States courts of appeals, in an opinion written by Warren Burger, directed the FCC to revoke Lamar Broadcasting's licence for television station WLBT due to the station's segregationist politics and ongoing censorship of NBC network news coverage of the US civil rights movement.\n\nIn 1974, the Federal Communications Commission stated that the Congress had delegated it the power to mandate a system of “access, either free or paid, for person or groups wishing to express a viewpoint on a controversial public issue...” but that it had not yet exercised that power because licensed broadcasters had “voluntarily” complied with the “spirit” of the doctrine. It warned that: \n\nIn one landmark case, the FCC argued that teletext was a new technology that created soaring demand for a limited resource, and thus could be exempt from the fairness doctrine. The Telecommunications Research and Action Center (TRAC) and Media Access Project (MAP) argued that teletext transmissions should be regulated like any other airwave technology, hence the Fairness Doctrine was applicable (and must be enforced by the FCC). In 1986, Judges Robert Bork and Antonin Scalia of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit concluded that the Fairness Doctrine did apply to teletext but that the FCC was not required to apply it.  In a 1987 case, \"Meredith Corp. v. FCC\", two other judges on the same court declared that Congress did not mandate the doctrine and the FCC did not have to continue to enforce it.\n\nIn \"Red Lion Broadcasting Co. v. FCC\", , the U.S. Supreme Court upheld (by a vote of 8-0) the constitutionality of the fairness doctrine in a case of an on-air personal attack, in response to challenges that the doctrine violated the First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. The case began when journalist Fred J. Cook, after the publication of his \"Goldwater: Extremist of the Right\", was the topic of discussion by Billy James Hargis on his daily Christian Crusade radio broadcast on WGCB in Red Lion, Pennsylvania. Mr. Cook sued arguing that the fairness doctrine entitled him to free air time to respond to the personal attacks.\n\nAlthough similar laws are unconstitutional when applied to the press, the Court cited a Senate report (S. Rep. No. 562, 86th Cong., 1st Sess., 8-9 [1959]) stating that radio stations could be regulated in this way because of the limited public airwaves at the time. Writing for the Court, Justice Byron White declared:\nThe Court warned that if the doctrine ever restrained speech, then its constitutionality should be reconsidered.\n\nHowever, in the case of \"Miami Herald Publishing Co. v. Tornillo\", , Chief Justice Warren Burger wrote (for a unanimous court):\nThis decision differs from \"Red Lion\" v. \"FCC\" in that it applies to a newspaper, which, unlike a broadcaster, is unlicensed and can theoretically face an unlimited number of competitors.\n\nIn 1984, the Supreme Court ruled that Congress could not forbid editorials by non-profit stations that received grants from the Corporation for Public Broadcasting (\"FCC v. League of Women Voters of California\", ). The Court's 5-4 majority decision by William J. Brennan, Jr. stated that while many now considered that expanding sources of communication had made the fairness doctrine's limits unnecessary: \nAfter noting that the FCC was considering repealing the fairness doctrine rules on editorials and personal attacks out of fear that those rules might be \"chilling speech\", the Court added: \n\nIn 1985, under FCC Chairman Mark S. Fowler, a communications attorney who had served on Ronald Reagan's presidential campaign staff in 1976 and 1980, the FCC released its report on \"General Fairness Doctrine Obligations\" stating that the doctrine hurt the public interest and violated free speech rights guaranteed by the First Amendment. The Commission could not, however, come to a determination as to whether the doctrine had been enacted by Congress through its 1959 Amendment to Section 315 of the Communications Act. \n\nIn response to the 1986 \"Telecommunications Research & Action Center v. F.C.C.\" decision, the 99th Congress directed the FCC to examine alternatives to the Fairness Doctrine and to submit a report to Congress on the subject. In 1987, in \"Meredith Corporation v. F.C.C.\" the case was returned to the FCC with a directive to consider whether the doctrine had been “self-generated pursuant to its general congressional authorization or specifically mandated by Congress.” \n\nThe FCC opened an inquiry inviting public comment on alternative means for administrating and enforcing the Fairness Doctrine. Then, in its 1987 report, the alternatives—including abandoning a case-by-case enforcement approach, replacing the doctrine with open access time for all members of the public, doing away with the personal attack rule, and eliminating certain other aspects of the doctrine—were rejected by the FCC for various reasons. \n\nOn 5 August 1987, under FCC Chairman Dennis R. Patrick, the FCC abolished the doctrine by a 4-0 vote, in the \"Syracuse Peace Council\" decision, which was upheld by a panel of the Appeals Court for the D.C. Circuit in February 1989, though the Court stated in their decision that they made \"that determination without reaching the constitutional issue.\" The FCC suggested in \"Syracuse Peace Council\" that because of the many media voices in the marketplace, the doctrine be deemed unconstitutional, stating that: \n\nAt the 4-0 vote, Chairman Patrick said:\n\nSitting commissioners at the time of the vote were:\n\nDennis R. Patrick, Chairman, Republican(Named an FCC commissioner by Ronald Reagan in 1983)\n\nMimi Weyforth Dawson, Republican(Named an FCC commissioner by Ronald Reagan in 1986)\n\nPatricia Diaz Dennis, Democrat(Named an FCC commissioner by Ronald Reagan in 1986)\n\nJames H. Quello, Democrat (Named an FCC commissioner by Richard M. Nixon in 1974)\n\nThe FCC vote was opposed by members of Congress who said the FCC had tried to \"flout the will of Congress\" and the decision was \"wrongheaded, misguided and illogical.\". The decision drew political fire and tangling, where cooperation with Congress was at issue. In June 1987, Congress attempted to preempt the FCC decision and codify the Fairness Doctrine, but the legislation was vetoed by President Ronald Reagan. Another attempt to revive the doctrine in 1991 was stopped when President George H.W. Bush threatened another veto.\n\nFowler said in February 2009 that his work toward revoking the Fairness Doctrine under the Reagan Administration had been a matter of principle (his belief that the Doctrine impinged upon the First Amendment), not partisanship. Fowler described the White House staff raising concerns, at a time before the prominence of conservative talk radio and during the preeminence of the Big Three television networks and PBS in political discourse, that repealing the policy would be politically unwise. He described the staff's position as saying to Reagan: \n\nTwo corollary rules of the doctrine, the personal attack rule and the \"political editorial\" rule, remained in practice until 2000. The \"personal attack\" rule applied whenever a person (or small group) was subject to a personal attack during a broadcast. Stations had to notify such persons (or groups) within a week of the attack, send them transcripts of what was said and offer the opportunity to respond on-the-air. The \"political editorial\" rule applied when a station broadcast editorials endorsing or opposing candidates for public office, and stipulated that the unendorsed candidates be notified and allowed a reasonable opportunity to respond.\n\nThe U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit ordered the FCC to justify these corollary rules in light of the decision to repeal the Fairness Doctrine. The FCC did not provide prompt justification so both corollary rules were repealed in October 2000.\n\nIn February 2005, U.S. Representative Louise Slaughter (D-NY) and 23 co-sponsors introduced the Fairness and Accountability in Broadcasting Act (H.R. 501) in the 1st Session of the 109th Congress of 2005-7 (when Republicans held a majority of both Houses). The bill would have shortened a station's license term from eight years to four, with the requirement that a license-holder cover important issues fairly, hold local public hearings about its coverage twice a year, and document to the FCC how it was meeting its obligations. The bill was referred to committee, but progressed no further.\n\nIn the same Congress, Representative Maurice Hinchey (D-NY) introduced legislation \"to restore the Fairness Doctrine\". H.R. 3302, also known as the \"Media Ownership Reform Act of 2005\" or MORA, had 16 co-sponsors in Congress.\n\nIn June 2007, Senator Richard Durbin (D-IL) said, \"It's time to reinstitute the Fairness Doctrine,\" an opinion shared by his Democratic colleague, Senator John Kerry (D-MA). However, according to Marin Cogan of \"The New Republic\" in late 2008: \nOn June 24, 2008, U.S. Representative Nancy Pelosi (D-CA), the Speaker of the House at the time, told reporters that her fellow Democratic Representatives did not want to forbid reintroduction of the Fairness Doctrine, adding \"the interest in my caucus is the reverse.\" When asked by John Gizzi of \"Human Events\", \"Do you personally support revival of the 'Fairness Doctrine?'\", the Speaker replied \"Yes.\"\nOn October 22, 2008, Senator Jeff Bingaman (D-NM) told a conservative talk radio host in Albuquerque, New Mexico: \nOn December 15, 2008, U.S. Representative Anna Eshoo (D-CA) told The Daily Post in Palo Alto, California that she thought it should also apply to cable and satellite broadcasters. \nOn February 11, 2009, Senator Tom Harkin (D-Iowa) told Press, \"...we gotta get the Fairness Doctrine back in law again.\" Later in response to Press's assertion that \"...they are just shutting down progressive talk from one city after another,\" Senator Harkin responded, \"Exactly, and that's why we need the fairthat's why we need the Fairness Doctrine back.\"\nFormer President Bill Clinton has also shown support for the Fairness Doctrine. During a February 13, 2009, appearance on the Mario Solis Marich radio show, Clinton said: \nClinton cited the \"blatant drumbeat\" against the stimulus program from conservative talk radio, suggesting that it doesn't reflect economic reality.\n\nThe Fairness Doctrine has been strongly opposed by prominent conservatives and libertarians who view it as an attack on First Amendment rights and property rights. Editorials in \"The Wall Street Journal\" and \"The Washington Times\" in 2005 and 2008 said that Democratic attempts to bring back the Fairness Doctrine have been made largely in response to conservative talk radio.\n\nIn 1987, Edward O. Fritts, president of the National Association of Broadcasters, in applauding President Reagan's veto of a bill intended to turn the doctrine into law, said that the doctrine is an infringement on free speech and intrudes on broadcasters' journalistic judgment.\n\nIn 2007, Senator Norm Coleman (R-MN) proposed an amendment to a defense appropriations bill that forbade the FCC from \"using any funds to adopt a fairness rule.\" It was blocked, in part on grounds that \"the amendment belonged in the Commerce Committee's jurisdiction\".\n\nIn the same year, the Broadcaster Freedom Act of 2007 was proposed in the Senate by Senators Coleman with 35 co-sponsors (S.1748) and John Thune (R-SD) with 8 co-sponsors (S.1742) and in the House by Republican Representative Mike Pence (R-IN) with 208 co-sponsors (H.R. 2905). It provided that: \nNeither of these measures came to the floor of either house.\n\nOn August 12, 2008, FCC Commissioner Robert M. McDowell stated that the reinstitution of the Fairness Doctrine could be intertwined with the debate over network neutrality (a proposal to classify network operators as common carriers required to admit all Internet services, applications and devices on equal terms), presenting a potential danger that net neutrality and Fairness Doctrine advocates could try to expand content controls to the Internet. It could also include \"government dictating content policy\". The conservative Media Research Center's Culture & Media Institute argued that the three main points supporting the Fairness Doctrine — media scarcity, liberal viewpoints being censored at a corporate level, and public interest — are all myths.\n\nIn June 2008, Barack Obama's press secretary wrote that Obama (then a Democratic U.S. Senator from Illinois and candidate for President): \n\nOn February 16, 2009, Mark Fowler said: \n\nIn February 2009, a White House spokesperson said that President Obama continued to oppose the revival of the Doctrine.\n\nIn the 111th Congress (January 2009 to January 2011), the Broadcaster Freedom Act of 2009 (S.34, S.62, H.R.226) was introduced to block reinstatement of the Doctrine. On February 26, 2009, by a vote of 87-11, the Senate added that act as an amendment to the District of Columbia House Voting Rights Act of 2009 (S.160), [a bill which later passed the Senate 61-37, but not the House of Representatives]. The Associated Press reported that the vote on the Fairness Doctrine rider was: \nThe AP report went on to say that President Obama had no intention of reimposing the doctrine, but Republicans (led by Sen. Jim DeMint, R-SC) wanted more in the way of a guarantee that the doctrine would not be reimposed.\n\nMedia reform organizations such as Free Press feel that a return to the Fairness Doctrine is not as important as setting stronger station ownership caps and stronger \"public interest\" standards enforcement (with funding from fines given to public broadcasting).\n\nUnder the Fair Packaging and Labeling Act, the FTC requires that all 'consumer commodities' bear a label with an accurate 'statement identifying the commodity'. If revenue-generating commercial broadcasts (whether by radio, tv, or internet) are a 'consumer commodity', then they must be accurately labeled. That would seem to preclude 'News' that is not genuine, 'Opinion' that is not the author's actual opinion, or 'Analysis' that is not at least arguably analytical. Note that in general the FTC only has authority over commercial aspects (pertaining to revenue) rather than speech.\n\nIn an August 13, 2008 telephone poll released by Rasmussen Reports, 47% of 1,000 likely voters supported a government requirement that broadcasters offer equal amounts of liberal and conservative commentary, while 39% opposed such a requirement. In the same poll, 57% opposed and 31% favored requiring Internet websites and bloggers that offer political commentary to present opposing points of view. By a margin of 71%-20% the respondents agreed that it is \"possible for just about any political view to be heard in today’s media\" (including the Internet, newspapers, cable TV and satellite radio), but only half the sample said they had followed recent news stories about the Fairness Doctrine closely. (The margin of error was 3%, with a 95% confidence interval.)\n\nIn June 2011, the Chairman and a subcommittee chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, both Republicans, said that the FCC, in response to their requests, had set a target date of August 2011 for removing the Fairness Doctrine and other \"outdated\" regulations from the FCC's rulebook.\n\nOn August 22, 2011, the FCC voted to remove the rule that implemented the Fairness Doctrine, along with more than 80 other rules and regulations, from the \"Federal Register\" following an executive order by President Obama directing a \"government-wide review of regulations already on the books\" to eliminate unnecessary regulations.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7648213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7648213", "title": "Financial Stability Institute", "text": "Financial Stability Institute\n\nThe Financial Stability Institute (FSI) is one of the bodies hosted by the Bank of International Settlements (BIS) at its headquarters in Basel. Established in 1999 by the BIS and the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, its primary role is to improve the co-ordination between national banks regulators through holding seminars and acting as a clearing house for information on regulatory practice.\n\nIt was set up in response to the East Asian financial crisis of 1997, as the result of a perceived weakness in co-ordination between national regulators in matters of training and general understanding of financial systems. As a result, its work is concentrated in the regulators of the non-G-10 nations. \n\n\nThe FSI has released 11 occasional papers, of which two have detailed the expectations of the various global regulators regarding Basel II implementation in their jurisdictions.\n\n"}
{"id": "21526320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21526320", "title": "Forensic Mental Health Association of California", "text": "Forensic Mental Health Association of California\n\nThe Forensic Mental Health Association of California (FMHAC) is a member based non-profit providing resources and education to professionals working in the forensic mental health field. The FMHAC also sponsors an annual conference in the Monterrey Bay area. The conference aims to provide a forum for discussion between professionals from the varied disciplines involved in providing mental healthcare to incarcerated patients, educate professionals in forensic mental health on the most current best practices, share innovations and successful program models such as behavioral health Courts and CIT, and improve the mental healthcare provided to incarcerated patients.\n\n"}
{"id": "31924273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31924273", "title": "General principles of European Union law", "text": "General principles of European Union law\n\nThe general principles of European Union law are general principles of law which are applied by the European Court of Justice and the national courts of the member states when determining the lawfulness of legislative and administrative measures within the European Union. General principles of European Union law may be derived from common legal principles in the various EU member states, or general principles found in international law or European Union law. Amongst others the European Court of Justice has recognised fundamental rights (see human rights), proportionality, legal certainty, equality before the law and subsidiarity as general principles of European Union law. General principles of law should be distinguished from rules of law as principles are more general and open-ended in the sense that they need to be honed to be applied to specific cases with correct results.\n\nThe general principles of European Union law are rules of law which a European Union judge, sitting for example in the European Court of Justice, has to find and apply but not create. Particularly for fundamental rights, Article 6(3) of the Treaty on European Union provided:\nFurther, Article 340 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (formerly Article 215 of the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community) expressly provides for the application of the \"general principles common to the laws of the Member States\" in the case of non-contractual liability. \n\nIn practice the European Court of Justice has applied general principles to all aspects of European Union law. In formulating general principles, European Union judges draw on a variety of sources, including: public international law and its general principles inherent to all legal systems; national laws of the member states, that is general principles common to the laws of all member states, general principles inferred from European Union law, and fundamental human rights. General principles are found and applied to avoid the denial of justice, fill gaps in European Union law and to strengthen the coherence of European Union law.\n\nAccepted general principles of European Union Law include fundamental rights (see human rights), proportionality, legal certainty, equality before the law and subsidiarity. In Case T-74/00 \"Artegodan\", the General Court (then Court of First Instance) appeared willing to extrapolate from the limited provision for the precautionary principle in environmental policy in Article 191(2) TFEU to a general principle of EU law.\n\nFundamental rights, as in human rights, were first recognised by the European Court of Justice based on arguments developed by the German Constitutional Court in \"Stauder v City of Ulm\" Case 29/69 in relation to a European Community scheme to provide cheap butter to recipients of welfare benefits. When the case was referred to the European Court of Justice the ruling of the German Constitutional Court, the European Community could not \"prejudice the fundamental human rights enshrined in the general principles of Community law and protected by the Court\". This concept was further developed by the European Court of Justice in \"International Handelsgesellschaft v Einfuhr- und Vorratsstelle Getreide\" [1970] ECR 1125 Case 11/70 when it was held that \"Respect for fundamental rights form an integral part of the general principles of law protected by the Court of Justice. The protection of such rights, whilst inspired by the constitutional traditions common to the member states, must be ensured within the framework of the structure and objectives of the Community.\" Subsequently, in \"J Nold v Commission\" Case 4/73 the European Court of Justice reiterated that human rights are an integral part of the general principles of European Union law and that as such the European Court of Justice was bound to draw inspiration from the constitutional traditions common to the member states. Therefore, the European Court of Justice cannot uphold measures which are incompatible with fundamental rights recognised and protected in the constitutions of member states. The European Court of Justice also found that \"international treaties for the protection of human rights on which the member states have collaborated or of which they are signatories, can supply guidelines which should be followed within the framework of Community law.\"\n\nNone of the original treaties establishing the European Union mention protection for fundamental rights. It was not envisaged for European Union measures, that is legislative and administrative actions by European Union institutions, to be subject to human rights. At the time the only concern was that member states should be prevented from violating human rights, hence the establishment of the European Convention on Human Rights in 1950 and the establishment of the European Court of Human Rights. The European Court of Justice recognised fundamental rights as general principle of European Union law as the need to ensure that European Union measures are compatible with the human rights enshrined in member states' constitution became ever more apparent. In 1999 the European Council set up a body tasked with drafting a European Charter of Human Rights, which could form the constitutional basis for the European Union and as such tailored specifically to apply to the European Union and its institutions. The Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union draws a list of fundamental rights from the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, the Declaration on Fundamental Rights produced by the European Parliament in 1989 and European Union Treaties. \n\nThe 2007 Lisbon Treaty explicitly recognised fundamental rights by providing in Article 6(1) that \"The Union recognises the rights, freedoms and principles set out in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union of 7 December 2000, as adopted at Strasbourg on 12 December 2007, which shall have the same legal value as the Treaties.\" Therefore, the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union has become an integral part of European Union law, codifying the fundamental rights which were previously considered general principles of European Union law. In effect, after the Lisbon Treaty, the Charter and the convention now co-exist under European Union law, though the former is enforced by the European Court of Justice in relation to European Union measures, and the latter by the European Court of Human Rights in relation to measures by member states.\n\nThe concept of legal certainty is recognised one of the general principles of European Union law by the European Court of Justice since the 1960s. It is an important general principle of international law and public law, which predates European Union law. As a general principle in European Union law it means that the law must be certain, in that it is clear and precise, and its legal implications foreseeable, especially when applied to financial obligations. The adoption of laws which will have legal effect in the European Union must have a proper legal basis. Legislation in member states which implements European Union law must be worded so that it is clearly understandable by those who are subject to the law.\n\nIn European Union law the general principle of legal certainty prohibits retroactive laws, i.e. laws should not take effect before they are published. The general principle also requires that sufficient information must be made public to enable parties to know what the law is and comply with it. For example, in \"Opel Austria v Council\" [1997] ECR II-39 Case T-115/94 The European Court of Justice held that European Council Regulation did not come into effect until it had been published. Opel had brought the action on the basis that the Regulation in question violated the principle of legal certainty, because it legally came into effect before it had been notified and the regulation published. The doctrine of legitimate expectation, which has its roots in the principles of legal certainty and good faith, is also a central element of the general principle of legal certainty in European Union law. The legitimate expectation doctrine holds that and that \"those who act in good faith on the basis of law as it is or seems to be should not be frustrated in their expectations\". This means that a European Union institution, once it has induced a party to take a particular course of action, must not renege on its earlier position if doing so would cause the party to suffer loss. The European Court of Justice has considered the legitimate expectation doctrine in cases where violation of the general principle of legal certainty was alleged in numerous cases involving agricultural policy and European Council regulations, with the leading case being \"Mulder v Minister van Landbouw en Visserij\" [1988] ECR 2321 Case 120/86. The misuse of powers test is another significant element of the general principle of legal certainty in European Union law. It holds that a lawful power must not be exercised for any other purpose than that for which it was conferred. According to the misuse of power test a decision by a European Union institution is only a misuse of power if \"it appears, on the basis of objective, relevant and consistent evidence, to have been adopted with the exclusive or main purpose of achieving end other than those stated.\" A rare instance where the European Court of Justice has held that a European Union institution has misused its powers, and therefore violated the general principle of legal uncertainty, is \"Giuffrida v Commission\" [1976] ECR 1395 Case 105/75. The general principle of legal certainty is particularly stringently applied when European Union law imposes financial burdens on private parties.\n\nThe legal concept of proportionality is recognised one of the general principles of European Union law by the European Court of Justice since the 1950s. It was first recognised by the European Court of Justice in \"Federation Charbonniere de Belgique v High Authority\" [1954] ECR 245 Case C8/55 and in \"Internationale Handelsgesellschaft v Einfuhr- und Vorratsstelle Getreide\" [1970] ECR 1125 Case 11/70 the European Advocate General provided an early formulation of the general principle of proportionality in stating that \"the individual should not have his freedom of action limited beyond the degree necessary in the public interest\". The general concept of proportionality has since been further developed, notably in \"R v Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food ex parte Fedesa\" [1990] ECR 1–4023 Case C-331/88 in which a European directive prohibiting the use of certain hormonal substances in livestock farming was challenged. In its ruling the European Court of Justice held that by virtue of the general principle of proportionality the lawfulness of the Directive depended on whether it was appropriate and necessary to achieve the objectives legitimately pursued by the law in question. When there was a choice between several appropriate measures the least onerous must be adopted, and any disadvantage caused must not be disproportionate to the aims pursued. The principle of proportionality is also recognised in Article 5 of the EC Treaty, stating that \"any action by the Community shall not go beyond what is necessary to achieve the objectives of this Treaty\".\n\nProf Grainne de Burca has therefore argued that the general principle in European Union law of proportionality entails a three-part test: 1) is the measure suitable to achieve a legitimate aim, 2) is the measure necessary to achieve that aim or are less restrictive means available, and 3) does the measure have an excessive effect on the applicant's interests. The general principle of proportionality therefore requires that a measure is both appropriate and necessary, and as such the European Court of Justice to review both the legality of a measure, but also to some extent the merit of legislative and administrative measures. Therefore, the general principle of European Union law of proportionality is often considered as the most far-reaching ground of judicial review and of particular importance in public law cases. However, because the proportionality concept potentially concerns the merits of a measure, European judges may defer to the choice of the authority which has adopted the measure, or make what are frequently political decisions. In \"Fedesa\" the European Court of Justice explained that \"it must be states that in matters concerning the common agricultural policy the Community legislature has the discretionary power which corresponds to the political responsibilities given to it by... the Treaty. Consequently, the legality of a measure adopted in that sphere can be affected only if the measure is manifestly inappropriate having regard to the objective which the competent institution is seeking to pursue...\".\n\n"}
{"id": "28303218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28303218", "title": "Hague Guardianship Convention", "text": "Hague Guardianship Convention\n\nCommonly referred to as the \"Guardianship Convention\", the Convention of 1902 relating to the settlement of guardianship of minors, along with the other Conventions in 1902, was the Hague Conference's first effort at addressing international family law. Within a few decades it was the only family law Convention to retain any currency. It was also the only family law treaty that was expressly preserved and revived in the Treaty of Versailles and other post World War I peace treaties. The Guardianship Convention was written only in French and, with the Boll case, is the only Convention of the Hague Conference to ever be the principal subject of interpretation before a court with worldwide jurisdiction.\n\nAs of 2016, seven states are party to the convention: Belgium, Italy, Luxembourg, Poland, Portugal, Romania and Spain. Six others: France, Germany, Hungary, the Netherlands, Sweden and Switzerland have denounced the convention.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11812408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11812408", "title": "Innocence Network", "text": "Innocence Network\n\nThe Innocence Network is an affiliation of organizations dedicated to providing pro bono legal and investigative services to individuals seeking to prove innocence of crimes for which they have been convicted and working to redress the causes of wrongful convictions.\nMost organizations involved are in the United States, covering all 50 states; however, the network includes organizations in Canada, Australia, and the UK.\n\nIn 2013, the work of Innocence Network member organizations led to the exoneration of 31 people imprisoned for crimes they did not commit.\n\n"}
{"id": "23658038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23658038", "title": "International Dairy Agreement", "text": "International Dairy Agreement\n\nThe International Dairy Agreement (IDA) replaced the International Dairy Arrangement, which had been established in 1980. Its primary function was to expand and liberalize world trade in dairy products through international cooperation. The agreement terminated in 1997.\n\nAn \"Arrangement concerning certain Dairy Products\" (Geneva, 12 January 1970), a treaty entered into by a number of nations, was established initially to set a minimum price of skimmed milk powder to $20 per 100 kilograms. The intention was to expand the arrangement to other dairy products. It also established a management committee within the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade framework to oversee the arrangement. Three years later, a \"Protocol relating to Milk Fat\" (Geneva, 2 April 1973) was agreed to, extending the skimmed milk powder controls to other internationally transportable milk products, such as Ghee, anhydrous milk fat, anhydrous butteroil and anhydrous butterfat, butteroil and butterfat. \n\nOn January 1, 1995, the IDA was placed under the aegis of the World Trade Organization. Its members included Argentina, Bulgaria, the European Union, Japan, New Zealand, Romania, Switzerland, and Uruguay. The United States, which had been one of the original members, withdrew from the organization in 1985 to protest sales by the European Union of butter and other basic dairy products at prices below the minimum export prices established by the Committee on Certain Milk Products that, along with the International Dairy Council, administered the Arrangement. The International Dairy Council suspended minimum prices for dairy products in 1995.\n\nThe IDA was terminated, by decision of the International Dairy Council, as of January 1, 1998. \n"}
{"id": "11829521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11829521", "title": "International Safety Management Code", "text": "International Safety Management Code\n\nThe International Safety Management (ISM) Code provides an international standard for the safe management and operation of ships at sea.\n\n\nIn order to comply with the ISM Code, Company operating the vessel has to be Audited first( after they submit their Safety Management System Manual and is approved by Flag Administration or Recognized Organization(RO)). Once Company is Audited,Document of Compliance (DOC) will be issued (validity 5 years). Company is subject to auditing every year(three months before and after anniversary date and before DOC expiration date).\nUpon issuing DOC to Company (or Managing Company) each vessel can be audited to verify vessel compliance with ISM Code. Each vessel will be issued SMS( Safety Management Certificate)valid for 5 years and subject to verification of Compliance with ISM Code between second and third years of certificate validity.\n\nSafety Management System Manual consists of the following elements:\n\n\nAlso, the ship must be maintained in conformity with the provisions of relevant rules and regulations and with any additional requirements which may be established by the company.\nComments from the auditor and/or audit body and from the ship are incorporated into the SMS by headquarters.\n\nThe requirements of the ISM Code may be applied to all commercial ships over 500 GT. The ISM Code is a chapter in SOLAS. If SOLAS does not apply then ISM is not mandatory. Compliance with ISM Code is sometimes required by vessel client regardless of Gross Tonnage ( GT).\n\nThe ISM Code was created by the IMO and Ferriby Marine's Capt. Graham Botterill, Specialist Advisor to the House of Lords in the UK on ship safety, among others.\n\nOn the evening of March 6, 1987, the cross-channel Ro-Ro ferry \"Herald of Free Enterprise\", carrying more than 450 passengers, around 80 crew, more than 80 cars, and close to 50 freight vehicles, left the Belgian port of Zeebrugge for the English port of Dover. Soon after the \"Herald of Free Enterprise\" passed Zeebrugge's breakwater, water flooded into the ferry's lower car deck and destabilized it, causing it to sink in a matter of minutes. 193 lives were lost.\n\nThe immediate cause of the accident was that the bow door remained wide open, allowing a great inrush of water as the vessel increased speed, while the fatigued assistant boatswain directly responsible for closing it lay asleep in his cabin. The public inquiry led by Justice Sheen revealed that the assistant boatswain's negligence was simply the last in a long string of actions that laid the groundwork for a major accident. The Sheen Report did not stop at identifying the shortcomings of the ship's master and his crew. The inquiry revealed that the shore management, Townsend Car Ferries Ltd., was just as blameworthy. Numerous memos written by Townsend ship's masters pointing out the need to implement safety-enhancing measures or address serious deficiencies on board their vessels went unheeded (Rasmussen and Svedung, 2000). The report summed up the management's cavalier attitude towards safety in the following statement: 'From top to bottom the body corporate was infected with the disease of sloppiness' (Sheen, 1987).\n\nThe \"Herald of Free Enterprise\" was a modern ferry equipped with advanced technology and manned by a highly qualified crew. Only seven years prior to the accident, it was built in a German shipyard according to international maritime safety regulations. Why did it capsize? The general frustration in the shipping industry following the capsizing of the \"Herald of Free Enterprise\" is typical of the kind of accident that precipitated in a paradigm shift in maritime safety administration and the development of the ISM Code.\n\n"}
{"id": "28273326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28273326", "title": "Katarismo", "text": "Katarismo\n\nKatarism () is a political tendency in Bolivia, named after the 18th-century indigenous leader Túpac Katari. The katarista movement began in the early 1970s, recovering a political identity of the Aymara people. The movement was centered on two key understandings, that the colonial legacy continued in the Latin American republics after independence and that the indigenous population constituted the demographic (and thus essentially, the political) majority in Bolivia. Katarismo stresses that the indigenous peoples of Bolivia suffer both from class oppression (in the Marxist, economic sense) and ethnic oppression.\nThe agrarian reform of 1953 had enabled a group of Aymara youth to begin university studies in La Paz in the 1960s. In the city, this group faced prejudices, and katarista thoughts began to emerge among the students. The movement was inspired by the rhetoric of the national revolution as well as by Fausto Reinaga, writer and founder of the Indian Party of Bolivia. The group formed the Julian Apansa University Movement (MUJA), which organized around cultural demands, including bilingual education. Its most prominent leader was Jenaro Flores Santos (who in 1965 returned to the countryside to lead peasants). Another prominent figure was Raimundo Tambo.\n\nAt the 1971 Sixth National Peasant Congress, the congress of the National Peasants Confederation, the kataristas emerged as a major faction against the pro-government forces. The 1973 Tolata massacre (in which at least 13 Quechua peasants were killed) radicalized the katarista movement. Following the massacre, the kataristas issued the 1973 Tiwanaku Manifesto, which viewed Quechua people as economically exploited and culturally and politically oppressed. In this vision, peasant class consciousness and Aymara and Quechua ethnic consciousness were complementary because capitalism and colonialism were the root of exploitation.\n\nKatarismo made its political breakthrough in the late 1970s through the leading role kataristas played in CSUTCB. The kataristas pushed the CSUTCB to become more indigenized. Eventually, the kataristas split into two groups. The first, a more reformist strain, was led by Victor Hugo Cardenas, who later served as vice president under Gonzalo Sanchez de Lozada, heading efforts to institutionalize a neoliberal, state-led multiculturalism. A second strain articulated a path of Aymara nationalism. A political wing of the movement, the Tupaj Katari Revolutionary Movement (MRTK) was launched. This radical stream of katarismo has been represented by Felipe Quispe (aka El Mallku), who took part in founding the Tupac Katari Guerrilla Army in the 1980s. This group later became the MIP (Indigenous Movement Pachakuti), which became outspoken critics of the neoliberal Washington Consensus and which coalesced around ethnic-based solidarity. Quispe advocated the creation of a new sovereign country, the Republic of Quillasuyo, named after one of the four regions of the old empire where the Incas conquered the Aymaras. Current Vice President of Bolivia Alvaro Garcia Linera was a member of this group.\n\nKatarista organizations were weakened during the 1980s. In this context NGOs began to appropriate katarista symbols. Populist parties, such as CONDEPA, also began to integrate katarista symbols in their discourse. After the Revolutionary Nationalist Movement (MNR) had incorporated katarista themes in its 1993 election campaign, other mainstream parties followed suit (most notably the Revolutionary Left Movement).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46809964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46809964", "title": "Kimberley Motley", "text": "Kimberley Motley\n\nKimberley Chongyon Motley is an American International Attorney of African American and Korean descent. She is mother of three, and former Mrs. Wisconsin-America 2004, who is known for being the first foreign attorney to litigate in Afghanistan since 2008. She is licensed and has permission to practice in Afghanistan, Wisconsin, the U.S. Supreme Court, Dubai International Financial Courts, and the International Criminal Courts. She is considered one of the most effective defense attorneys operating in Afghanistan.\n\nIn the male-dominated Afghan court and prison system, wrote Tom Freston in \"Vanity Fair\", Motley \"must appear to be someone from outer space. She acknowledges this but declares that she gets respect… She has proven to be a very effective and tenacious fighter.\" Motley has been described as possessing \"a rare kind of grit—the kind necessary to hang a shingle in Kabul, represent the under-represented, weather a kaleidoscope of threats, and win the respect of the Afghan legal establishment (and of tribal leaders).\"\n\nTom Rosenstock, an attorney who has worked in Kabul since 2008, told \"The Daily Beast\" in 2010 that Motley may be doing more \"to promote rule of law than large ambitious programs which never get to where the rubber meets the road.\" A Western diplomat in Afghanistan called Motley \"the kind of person who makes you change [your] opinion about lawyers.\"\n\nIn 2014, Motley was named by Richard Branson as one of the most inspirational people and described her as \"an inspiring litigator with a powerful message: \"The laws are ours – no matter your ethnicity, nationality, gender, race – they belong to us.\"\n\nMotley's father is African-American and her mother is from rural North Korea. Her parents met when her father was in the military. Motley was raised in a \"hard\" neighborhood in Milwaukee. Her parents were \"very nurturing, but outside the home, my environment was hard, harsh, even though we were very close as a family. There was a lot of crime, a lot of poverty, a lot of distrust of each other. A lot of people where I grew up felt invisible to the world. I have two brothers and a sister, and I can think of no other family, for instance, who lived in a two-parent household.\" She began working at a very early age. Every summer during her early childhood, Motley and her siblings were taken to a farm where they had to \"plant turnips and pick green beans and strawberries\" which would be frozen for the family to eat during the winter. Motley and her brother also had a newspaper route. In addition, she worked at an ice cream shop at age 13, and \"at a juvenile-detention center, grocery stores, youth centers.\"\n\nShe was interested in law from an early age. Although her parents ordinarily would not let her watch television, she had a teacher who told the class to watch \"Law & Order\". \"I loved it so much that for three years, I kept telling my parents, my teacher needs me to watch \"Law & Order\".\" At one point, her father was injured in a car accident and was laid off as a result. \"He wanted disability and had to spend years and go through so many lawyers to end up being not successful,\" she recalled. This spurred her interest in the law, as did the spectacle of \"so many people in my neighborhood go[ing] in and out of jail.\" She has said that in fact \"I wanted to be a doctor and a DJ. But law picked me.\"\n\nMotley received an Associate of Arts and Sciences (A.A.S.) degree from Milwaukee Area Technical College in 1997. She received a B.A. from the University of Wisconsin–Milwaukee in 2000, and in 2003 received an M.A. from the same institution. In the same year, she earned a J.D. from Marquette University Law School.\n\nMotley was crowned Miss Wisconsin in 2004.\n\nIn 2008, after working as a public defender in Milwaukee for five years, Motley went to Afghanistan as part of a nine-month legal education program run by the U.S. State Department to train Afghan lawyers. She had never traveled outside the U.S. before. \"In that nine months,\" she later recalled in a 2014 TED talk, \"I went around the country and I talked to hundreds of people that were locked up, and I talked to many businesses that were also operating in Afghanistan. And within these conversations, I started hearing the connections between the businesses and the people, and how laws that were meant to protect them were being underused, while gross and illegal punitive measures were overused. And so this put me on a quest for justness, and what justness means to me is using laws for their intended purpose, which is to protect. The role of laws is to protect. So as a result, I decided to open up a private practice, and I became the first foreigner to litigate in Afghan courts.\"\n\nAt first she represented Westerners and other non-Afghans stranded in Afghan prisons. \"What I found,\" she later recalled, \"is that most did not have proper legal representation. If they were English-speaking, they had no idea what was going on in court. I felt and still feel a great responsibility for them as a person and as a lawyer.\"\n\nMotley's first defendant was \"an African woman convicted of drug trafficking. She was a drug mule sent to Afghanistan by a European pimp...She had been in prison for two years with her then-3-year-old daughter. She was convicted of 14 years in prison, so her child would have grown up in jail. She had gone through almost all of her legal options. I felt very helpless, and I do believe her case helped define and shape who I am. She was not afforded her due process under Afghan law. She and her child were tucked away in an Afghan prison, forgotten.\" Eventually Motley was able to secure a presidential decree ordering the woman's release.\n\nSince 2009, Motley has been the CEO of Motley Consulting International, of which she is a Founding Partner. Since the same year she has also been CEO of Motley Legal Services, which provides legal representation in the U.S. and Afghanistan. She spends approximately six months in a fortified house in Kabul, where she provides representation for criminal and human-rights cases in the nation. She is preoccupied with the task of growing the capacity of rule of law internationally. She is registered as an attorney with the American, French, U.A.E., Australian, Spanish, Dutch, British, Italian, Norwegian, German, and Canadian Embassies in Afghanistan, and is thus routinely contacted by expatriates who are facing legal troubles with Afghan authorities.\n\n\"Motley works for the release of foreigners languishing in Afghan jails,\" reported \"The Daily Beast\" in 2010, \"and often her work starts after the verdict—as in the case of an Australian on death row, convicted of murdering an Afghan colleague; a South African sentenced to fifteen years in prison on drug charges, and a Brit convicted of fraud.\" For example, \"she negotiated the release of Bill Shaw, a former British military officer, who had been held in the notorious Pul-e-charki prison for five months.\"\n\nShe \"has developed her own approach to operating in the Afghan courts,\" reported \"The Daily Beast\". For example, \"she never wears a veil or a dress\" during a trial. She explained, \"I need to look like a man as much as possible...I find that men hear me more when I don’t wear a headscarf. I wore it at first, and when I took it off, I found men were more respectful.\"\n\nAs of 2010, Motley was under a threat from the Afghan District Attorney's office to arrest her next time she set foot in Kabul, as retribution for her harsh criticism of Afghanistan's corrupt judicial system. She had no hesitation about returning. \"I have clients back there,\" she said. \"They need my help.\" She also noted that she received rape threats. \"If I was a man, I’d get more death threats, I suppose. But I get those as well.\" She has also \"been temporarily detained\" and \"accused of running a brothel\" and of espionage. A grenade was thrown at her office. But she has said that the rewards of her job \"far outweigh the risks, and as many risks as I take, my clients take far greater risks, because they have a lot more to lose if their cases go unheard, or worse, if they're penalized for having me as their lawyer. With every case that I take, I realize that as much as I'm standing behind my clients, that they're also standing behind me, and that's what keeps me going.\"\n\nOn June 21, 2014, Motley's husband, Claudiare Motley, was shot in Milwaukee after attending a high school reunion due to an attempted carjacking committed by Nathan King a sixteen year old. Eventually King was shot while attempting another robbery and became paralyzed as a result. Motley represented Claudiare and Victoria Davison, the woman who shot King, in Court. On July 16, 2015, King was found guilty of the two counts of Attempted Armed Robbery against Motley and Davison and ultimately received twelve years in prison and eight years extended supervision prison sentence.\n\nOn December 16, 2016, Motley went to Havana, Cuba to represent Danilo Machado. While in Havana Motley was arrested without charge and subsequently deported from Cuba. Motley was instrumental to the release of Machado on January 21, 2017, who was released from El Combinado del Este prison without charge.\n\nMotley has successfully handled a number of high-profile cases around the world including but not limited to.\n\nA documentary Film entitled Motley's Law about Motley made by the Danish Film Production Company Made in Copenhagen and directed by Nicole Nielsen Horanyi and produced by Helle Faber was released in October 2015. It won the Grand Jury Prize Award at NYC DOC 2015.\n\nIt was also won the AWFJ - Alliance of Women Film Journalists' EDA Award for Best Female-Directed Documentary at IDFA 2015. Motley's Law was also nominated for the FACT Award at CPH-DOX.\n\nThe film has been described as being \"Fascinating.\" Motley has been described as \"fearless, but she's also endearing; she's not an abrasive personality or a crusading egocentric as one might expect from a person who puts herself in harm's way in a land to which she has no personal attachment.\" A \"Bad Ass Lawyer Fighting for Justice in Afghanistan.\"\n\nFailing Farkhunda Means Failing Afghan Women\n\nThe Mob Killing of Farkhunda was a Defining Moment for Women's Rights in Afghanistan\n\nA Defining Moment\n\nOur Complacency with War Torn Violence\n\nThe Immorality of Afghanistan's Moral Crimes\n\nMotley wrote \"Article 26: The implications for Afghanistani women and children,\" published by \"Chambers and Partners, Chambers Women & Diversity\" in February 2014.\n\nMaking Good on the 911 Legacy for Afghan Women\n\nJuvenile Injustice in Afghanistan\n\nAssessment of Juvenile Justice in Afghanistan\n\nIn addition to practicing law, Motley teaches spinning classes at the U.S. military base while in Kabul. \"I respect the military,\" she has said.\n\nIn December 2014, she gave a TED talk entitled \"How can we all find ways to be courageous?\" She described cases she has handled which illustrate \"how a country's own laws can bring both justice and 'justness.'\" She also gave a talk at the Oslo Freedom Forum in May 2015.\n\nIn her TED talk, Motley is noted as saying that \"the reason for my success is very simple: I work the system from the inside out and use the laws in the ways that they're intended to be used.\" Motley also popularized the term \"Justness\" which she defines as using the laws for their intended purpose which is to protect. She just recently is working on the Justness Project which is a global campaign to \"put laws back in the hands of the people.\"\n\nShe also stated that there are three reasons why \"achieving justness in places like Afghanistan is difficult.\" First, \"people are very uneducated as to what their legal rights [are], and I find that this is a global problem. The second issue is that even with laws on the books, it's often superseded or ignored by tribal customs...And the third problem with achieving justness is that even with good, existing laws on the books, there aren't people or lawyers that are willing to fight for those laws. And that's what I do: I use existing laws, often unused laws, and I work those to the benefits of my clients. We all need to create a global culture of human rights and be investors in a global human rights economy, and by working in this mindset, we can significantly improve justice globally.\"\n\nMotley also has talked about Building A Global Human Rights Economy.\n"}
{"id": "16194846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16194846", "title": "Knowledge (legal construct)", "text": "Knowledge (legal construct)\n\nIn law, knowledge is one of the degrees of \"mens rea\" that constitute part of a crime. For example, in English law, the offense of knowingly being a passenger in a vehicle taken without consent (TWOC) requires that the prosecution prove, not only that the defendant was a passenger in a vehicle and that it was taken by the driver without consent, the prosecution must also prove that the defendant knew that it was taken without consent.\n\nUnder the principle of \"ignorantia juris non excusat\", ignorance of or mistake about the law is no defence. The \"mens rea\" of knowledge refers to knowledge about certain facts. It is \"a positive belief that a state of affairs exists.\"\n\nKnowledge can be actual, constructive, or imputed.\n\nA defendant does not have actual knowledge if he believes something to the contrary. The standard is subjective and the belief of the defendant need not be reasonable, only honest. For example, in \"R v. Williams\" the defendant intervened in what he thought was a mugging but was in fact a citizen's arrest. His mistake was upheld as a defense against a charge of assault. In \"Beckford v. R\" the defendant was a police officer who shot and killed V. Beckford claimed that he believed that V was shooting at him. It was found that the correct test was whether D \"honestly believed\" facts which, if true, would establish a defense. The reasonableness of the belief would be evidential in finding whether it was truly believed.\n\nKnowledge is also found where a defendant suspects that circumstances exist and \"deliberately decides not to make any further enquiries\" in case his suspicions prove well founded. A common example is a person who purchases significantly inexpensive and unprovenanced, but desirable items from a stranger. Such a person is likely to be fixed with constructive knowledge that the items were stolen.\n\nThis is relevant in strict liability offences and in corporate crime. For example, if a bar manager delegates his duties to others and those others know of unlawful activities on the premises, the manager can be fixed with imputed knowledge of the unlawful activities.\n"}
{"id": "1160435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1160435", "title": "Legal Electronic Data Exchange Standard", "text": "Legal Electronic Data Exchange Standard\n\nThe Legal Electronic Data Exchange Standard is a set of file format specifications intended to facilitate electronic data transmission in the legal industry. The phrase is abbreviated LEDES and is usually pronounced as \"leeds\". The LEDES specifications are maintained by the LEDES Oversight Committee (LOC), which was formed by the Law Firm and Law Department Services Group within PricewaterhouseCoopers. Members of the committee have included law firms, corporate legal departments, universities, and software vendors. The LOC was first informally created in 1995 to address e-billing issues and then incorporated as a California mutual-benefit nonprofit corporation in 2000.\n\nThe LOC currently maintains four sets of data elements and four data exchange format types. The four sets of data elements are: activity codes; expense codes; timekeeper classification codes; and Uniform Task-Based Management System codes. The four data exchange format types are: electronic billing (e-billing); budgeting; timekeeper attributes; and intellectual property matter management.\n\nThe electronic billing data exchange format types provide a standard data format for electronically transmitted invoices, typically from a law firm to a corporate client. The LEDES e-billing format currently has the following variations:\n\nThe other LEDES data exchange formats are as follows:\n\nIn April 2006, the UTBMS Update Initiative voted to merge into the LEDES Oversight Committee. The Uniform Task-Based Management System is a widely used system for coding legal work.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3606321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3606321", "title": "List of Acts of the Parliament of Scotland to 1707", "text": "List of Acts of the Parliament of Scotland to 1707\n\nThis is a list of Acts of the Parliament of Scotland. It lists the Acts of Parliament of the old Parliament of Scotland, that was merged with the old Parliament of England to form the Parliament of Great Britain, by the Union with England Act 1707.\n\nThe numbers after the titles of the Acts are the chapter numbers. Acts are referenced using 'Year of reign', 'Monarch', c., 'Chapter number' — e.g. 16 Charles II c. 2 — to define a chapter of the appropriate statute book. Chapter numbers given in the duodecimo edition, where applicable, are given in square brackets.\n\nThis list is only a partial catalogue of Acts that remained on the statute books even after the Union of 1707. For a largely comprehensive edition of Scottish Acts of Parliament see \"Acts of the Parliaments of Scotland\", ed. Thomas Thomson. A new edition has been edited by the Scottish Parliament Project at the University of St Andrews and is available online as the Records of the Parliaments of Scotland.\n\nFor the period after 1707, see list of Acts of the Parliament of Great Britain.\n\nRecord ed: May 26\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "337747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=337747", "title": "List of California ballot propositions", "text": "List of California ballot propositions\n\nThe following is a list of California ballot propositions broken down by decade. Propositions can be placed on the ballot either through the initiative process or by a vote of the state legislature. Propositions were added to the California constitution as part of the ethics reform instituted by Governor Hiram Johnson in the early 1910s.\n\n\nBallot measures were not numbered prior to the general election of 1914. Until the November 1982 general election, proposition numbers started with \"1\" for each election. After November 1982, subsequent propositions received sequentially increasing numbers until November 1998 when the count was reset to \"1\". Starting with November 1998, the count is reset in 10-year cycles.\n\nUntil 1960, citizen-led initiative measures appeared on general election ballots only. From 1960 to 2012, initiative measures appeared on primary, general, and special election ballots. In October 2011, Governor Jerry Brown signed into law a bill which requires all future ballot initiatives to be listed only in general elections (held in November in even-numbered years), rather than during any statewide election. Two propositions had already qualified for the next statewide election (which was the June 2012 presidential primaries) prior to the signing of the law, making the June 2012 primaries the last statewide non-general election in California to have statewide initiatives on the ballot. Propositions originating in the State Legislature can still appear on non-general election ballots, as was the case with Propositions 41 and 42 in June 2014.\n\nSome notable propositions which have received a great deal of attention include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1045272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1045272", "title": "Mines and Works Act", "text": "Mines and Works Act\n\nThe Mines and Work Act was a piece of legislation in South Africa, originally passed in 1911 and amended in 1912 and 1926 before undergoing further changes in 1956 and 1959. This act legally established South Africa's employment \"colour bar.\" and was enacted to establish the duties and responsibilities of workers in Mines and Works in South Africa.\n\nThis act (with/without/or its amendments) is sometimes referred to as the COLOUR BAR or the COLOUR BAR ACT. The term colour bar, however, usually refers to a group of labor practices, informal trade union practices, government regulations, and legislation, all of which were developed over time to prevent blacks from competing for certain categories of jobs monopolized by whites.\n\nAt any rate, this act included various regulations which gave \"white workers a monopoly of skilled operations\". However, The Act did not specify that blacks should be discriminated against in any way. Indeed, it made no mention of race or colour. Nor did it specifically and clearly give the government Mining Engineer powers to introduce a legal colour bar. But under section 4(n) it gave the Governor-General powers to grant, cancel and suspend certificates of competency to mine managers, mine overseers, mine surveyors, mechanical engineers, engine-drivers and miners entitled to blast. It also gave him the power to decide which other occupations should be required to possess certificates of competency.\n\nSome or other commission had criticized mine managements for employing large numbers of unskilled whites 'often entirely ignorant of mining, and whose principal and often only recommendation is their physical fitness and their suitability for rough work'. Yet when the commission reported in 1910, it submitted draft regulations that were heavy with colour bars. Some appeared in the interpretation of terms, as when the words 'white person' were inserted in the definition of banksman, onsetter, ganger and mine manager. Some took the form of an injunction to employ only whites in specified occupations, such as blasting, running elevators, driving engines, supervising boilers and other machinery; or as shift boss and mine overseer. Furthermore, only whites would be allowed to obtain the certificates of competence required, for instance, by engine drivers and boiler attendants. With some modifications, these draft regulations served as model for the MINES & WORKS REGULATIONS ACT of 1912.\n\nIn contrast to the 1912 REGULATIONS, this Act bracketed Coloured with whites in a position of privilege. For there was no question of segregating the coloured who spoke the Afrikaner's language, shared his outlook and stood closer to one than to the black population. Furthermore, the key section of this act \"stated that the minister, before announcing regulations for issuing certificates of competency (including the key blasting certificate, for nearly a century of license of the white miner), should seek the advice of the owners and of the organizations whose members hold a majority of the certificates, that is, the white unions, including the Mine Worker's Union. He was to do this through the formation of advisory committees\". This act was further revised in 1956 to deal with the declaration of work in the national interest.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47418098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47418098", "title": "Ministry of Justice (Bulgaria)", "text": "Ministry of Justice (Bulgaria)\n\nEstablished by Decree No 1 of July 5, 1879, the Ministry of Justice of Bulgaria is the link between the executive and judicial branches of power. It directs the writing of new laws related to the judiciary and offers feedback on laws prepared by other government organizations.\n\n"}
{"id": "44249231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44249231", "title": "Older prisoners", "text": "Older prisoners\n\nThe term older prisoners is used by the U.S. Department of Justice and/or state departments for corrections when referring to individuals that are 50 years of age and older. Conventionally, individuals are not usually classified as having reached old age until they reach the age of 65, but correctional facilities recognize individuals age 50 and above as older because of the few prisoners age 65 and above.\n\nOlder prisoners arguably age faster than their cohorts on the outside of the institution as a direct result of chronic, long-term diseases and a history more accustomed to drug and alcohol abuse. 8.6 percent of the total U.S. prison population is age 50 or older, and the average age for those considered to be older prisoners is 57.\n\nWith both incarceration rates and the nation's population higher than ever and stricter sentences being prescribed to perpetrators, the number of older prisoners is on the rise. The demographics, particularly race, of older prisoners resemble those of their younger peers, being that African Americans are disproportionately represented in making up nearly five and a half times of the prison population than their white counterparts make up.\n\nThe most commonly contracted diseases during incarceration share similar diagnoses to those outside of the institutions; however, the rate at which they afflict older prisoners is escalated significantly - 25% compared to their free cohorts not confined to prison environments. Psychiatric conditions are claimed to be detrimental to older prisoners where, specifically, rates of depression are higher and tend to have a lifelong lasting effect in a large percentage of older prisoners.\n"}
{"id": "42503064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42503064", "title": "Patricia MacCormack", "text": "Patricia MacCormack\n\nPatricia MacCormack is an Australian scholar who lives and works in London, England.\n\nPatricia MacCormack is Professor of Continental Philosophy in English and Media at Anglia Ruskin University, Cambridge. She has published extensively on Deleuze, Guattari, Blanchot, Serres, Irigaray, queer theory, teratology, body modification, posthuman theory, animal rights, and horror films. In 2013 she was a visiting Leverhulme Fellow at the University of California, Santa Barbara.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21036045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21036045", "title": "Patrick Neary", "text": "Patrick Neary\n\nPatrick Neary was Financial Regulator at the time of Ireland's financial crash. At a public appearance before the country's Banking Inquiry in 2015, he admitted it was a mistake to print golf balls featuring the Regulator's logo. He also confirmed he told Taoiseach Brian Cowen, that all the country's banks were solvent on the night of 29 September 2008, when those same banks were guaranteed by the country's politicians. Economist David McWilliams has described Neary as \"the worst financial regulator the world has ever seen.\"\n"}
{"id": "3883649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3883649", "title": "Perfection (law)", "text": "Perfection (law)\n\nIn law, perfection relates to the additional steps required to be taken in relation to a security interest in order to make it effective against third parties or to retain its effectiveness in the event of default by the grantor of the security interest. Generally speaking, once a security interest is effectively created, it gives certain rights to the holder of the security and imposes duties on the party who grants that security. However, in many legal systems, additional steps --- perfection of the security interest --- are required to enforce the security against third parties such as a liquidator.\n\nAs a legal concept, perfection must be distinguished from:\n\nThe same rule --- the common law rule in \"Dearle v Hall\", for instance --- may govern both perfection against third parties (e.g., subsequent security holders) and prioritization of competing security interests.\n\nIn most legal systems, the need for perfection arises only in relation to security interests that are proprietary in nature (such as a mortgage or equitable charge). Other arrangements which constitute security in the loose sense of the word --- for instance, title retention arrangements, hire purchase, and leasing transactions --- need not in general be perfected in the legal sense.\n\nIn India, Section 125 of the Companies Act, 1956 provides that certain charges shall be void against liquidator or creditors unless registered. Thus,if a charge is not registered with Registrar of Companies, and company happens to go for liquidation, even secured creditor shall be treated as unsecured.\n\nThere are three principal modes by which a security interest may be perfected (which method of perfection is applicable depends upon the nature of the security interest and the laws of the relevant country).\n\n\nSome security interests can be perfected only by the actual possession of the asset. For example, under a common-law pledge (or pawn), the right to enforce the sale of the asset is contingent upon the possession of that asset: an agreement that leaves the debtor in possession of the pledged collateral does not give rise to an enforceable security interest.\n\nIn certain cases, the possession does not need to be \"actual\" possession, but may be \"constructive\" possession. For example, possession of a document of title will often suffice where it is not possible to possess the goods. In many legal systems, there may also be constructive possession by attornment.\n\nThe law relating to perfection of security interests by taking of possession can sometimes be confused with the law relating to the granting of security interests, which provides that the deposit of certain assets (usually documents of title) can amount to an equitable mortgage of the goods.\n\nCertain security interests may be perfected by some kind of registration or filing. Although the terms are used interchangeably, it is more accurate to speak of registration as the lodgment of particulars, and filing as the lodgment of the security instrument itself.\n\nGenerally systems of registration divide into two types:\nEach has its own advantages and disadvantages.\n\nRegistration against a particular asset only tends to be practical where the assets are of a nature and substance that makes it feasible to have a register for recording security interests against them. Most countries have systems for the registration of security relating to land, aircraft, ships and intellectual property rights. The advantage of a register relating to the asset is that if the debtor wishes to provide an asset as collateral, the proposed lender can swiftly check definitively whether the asset is encumbered or not. Nevertheless, specialist registers in some jurisdictions cannot always be considered \"a one-stop source of information\".\n\nRegistration against a debtor tends to operate by way of requiring the registration of certain security interests by the debtor. The advantage is that a lender can quickly see which assets of the debtor are encumbered and which are not. However, because many registration systems do not require all types of security interest to be registered gaps can remain. Also, systems which register security against the debtor do not act as a check that the debtor actually has title to any of the relevant assets, merely that he has not created any security interest over them.\n\nHowever, the position is complicated by the fact that many legal systems employ both, interchangeably. A security interest granted by a debtor over a particular asset in any given country may need to be registered against the debtor, against the asset, both or neither.\n\nIn some legal systems, perfection of a security interest requires notice to be given to a relevant third party. This most commonly arises in relation to security over a debt or other \"chose in action\", notice being required to be given to the party owing the debt or holding the fund. Under English law, an often cited example is the well-known rule in \"Dearle v Hall\". Under the rule if A is owed money by X, and then A grants an equitable charge over that debt to B, and then grants a second equitable charge over the same debt to C, then the ability to enforce the charge by either B or C against the money in X's hands is dependent upon the giving of notice to X. The controversy in the rule relates to the fact that it is also a rule of \"priority\", meaning that (if their rights are otherwise equal) the first one to give notice to X has the prior claim, irrespective of the order in which the equitable charges were granted.\n\nSimilarly, in many common law legal systems, where there is an assignment of a debt, the assignee cannot enforce the rights of the assigning creditor against the debtor unless notice of the assignment has been given, and until notice of the assignment has been given, the debtor can still discharge the debt by paying the money to the creditor, notwithstanding the assignment.\n\n"}
{"id": "9003041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9003041", "title": "Prüm Convention", "text": "Prüm Convention\n\nThe Prüm Convention (inaccurately known as Schengen III Agreement) is a treaty which was signed on 27 May 2005 by Austria, Belgium, France, Germany, Luxembourg, the Netherlands and Spain in the town of Prüm in Germany, and which is open to all members of the European Union, 14 of which are currently parties. \n\nThe treaty was based on an initiative by the then German Minister Otto Schily from mid-2003. Core elements of the convention were picked up by EU Council Decision 2008/615/JHA on 23 June 2008 on the stepping up of cross-border cooperation, particularly in combating terrorism and cross-border crime.\n\nThe full name of the treaty is \"Convention between the Kingdom of Belgium, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Kingdom of Spain, the French Republic, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the Republic of Austria on the stepping up of cross-border cooperation, particularly in combating terrorism, cross-border crime and illegal migration\".\n\nThe Convention was adopted so as to enable the signatories to exchange data regarding DNA, fingerprints and vehicle registration of concerned persons and to cooperate against terrorism. It also contains provisions for the deployment of armed sky marshals on flights between signatory states, joint police patrols, entry of (armed) police forces into the territory of another state for the prevention of immediate danger (hot pursuit), and cooperation in case of mass events or disasters. Furthermore, a police officer responsible for an operation in a state may, in principle, decide to what degree the police forces of the other states that were taking part in the operation could use their weapons or exercise other powers.\n\nThe Convention was adopted outside of the European Union framework (and its mechanism of enhanced co-operation), but asserts that it is open for accession by any member state of the European Union and that:\n\nAdditionally the text of the Convention and its annexes were circulated on 7 July 2005 between the delegations to the Council of the European Union.\n\nSome of the Convention provisions, falling under the former third pillar of the EU, were later subsumed into the police and judicial cooperation provisions of European Union law by a 2008 Council Decision, commonly referred to as the Prüm Decision. It provides for Law Enforcement Cooperation in criminal matters primarily related to exchange of fingerprint, DNA (both on a hit no-hit basis) and Vehicle owner registration (direct access via the EUCARIS system) data. The data exchange provisions are to be implemented in 2012. The remaining provisions of the Convention falling under the former third pillar are not yet adopted into EU law.\n\nThe states which have ratified the convention are:\n\nGreece, Italy, Portugal and Sweden, have notified the Council of the European Union of their desire to accede to the Prüm Convention.\n\nWhile the Decisions were originally applicable to all EU member states, the United Kingdom subsequently exercised their right to opt-out from them effective 1 December 2014. However, the UK committed to assess their future participation and make a decision by 31 December 2015 on whether to rejoin the Decisions. On 22 January 2016 the UK notified the EU of its desire to resume participating in the Prum Decisions, which was approved by the Commission on 20 May 2016.\n\nNorway and Iceland signed a treaty with the EU in 2009 to apply certain provisions of the Decisions. Neither state has ratified the agreement as of 2015. This agreement does not apply to Denmark, as a result of its opt-out. The Council of the European Union authorized the launch of negotiations with Switzerland and Liechtenstein on their participation in the Prum regime in June 2016. The agreement was initialled in May 2018.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4090228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4090228", "title": "Psiphon", "text": "Psiphon\n\nPsiphon is a free and open-source Internet censorship circumvention tool that uses a combination of secure communication and obfuscation technologies (VPN, SSH, and HTTP Proxy). Psiphon is a centrally managed, and geographically diverse network of thousands\nof proxy servers, using a performance-oriented, single and multi hop architecture.\n\nPsiphon is specifically designed to support users in countries considered to be \"enemies of the Internet\". The codebase is developed and maintained by Psiphon, Inc. which operates systems and technologies designed to assist Internet users to securely bypass the content-filtering systems used by governments to impose censorship of the Internet. \n\nThe original concept for Psiphon (1.0) was developed by the Citizen Lab at the University of Toronto, building upon previous generations of web proxy software systems, such as the \"Safe Web\" and \"Anonymizer\" systems.\n\nIn 2007 Psiphon, Inc. was established as an independent Ontario corporation that develops advanced censorship circumvention systems and technologies. Psiphon, Inc. and the Citizen Lab at the Munk School of Global Affairs, University of Toronto occasionally collaborate on research projects, through the Psi-Lab partnership.\n\nPsiphon currently consists of three separate but related open source software projects:\n\nThe original concept for Psiphon envisioned an easy-to-use and lightweight Internet proxy, designed to be installed and operated by individual computer users who would then host private connections for friends and family in countries where the Internet is censored. According to Nart Villeneuve \"The idea is to get (users) to install this on their computer, and then deliver the location of that circumventor, to people in filtered countries by the means they know to be the most secure. What we're trying to build is a network of trust among people who know each other, rather than a large tech network that people can just tap into.\" Psiphon 1.0 was launched by the Citizen Lab on 1 December 2006 as open source software.\n\nIn Early—2007, Psiphon, Inc. was established as a Canadian corporation independent of the Citizen Lab and the University of Toronto. The original code (1.6) was made available under the GNU General Public License. In 2008, Psiphon was awarded the Netexplorateur award by the French Senate. In 2009, Psiphon was recognized with The Economist Best New Media Award by Index on Censorship. In 2011, Psiphon 1.X was officially retired and is no longer actively supported by Psiphon, Inc., or the Citizen Lab.\n\nIn 2008, Psiphon, Inc. was awarded two sub-grants via the Internews operated SESAWE (Open Internet) project(s). The source of funding came from the European Parliament and the US State Department Internet Freedom program, administered by the Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor (DRL). The objective of these grants was to develop Psiphon into a scalable anti-censorship solution capable of supporting large numbers of users across different geographic regions. The core development team grew to include a group of experienced security and encryption software engineers that previously developed Ciphershare, a secure document management system. \n\nIn 2010, Psiphon, Inc. began providing services to the Broadcasting Board of Governors (US), US Department of State, and the British Broadcasting Corporation. Psiphon, Inc. currently (2015) operates on the basis revenues generated from commercial operations.\n\nIn 2012, Psiphon, Inc. began development of a mobile version of Psiphon 3 for use with phones running Android.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1003661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1003661", "title": "RTP Control Protocol", "text": "RTP Control Protocol\n\nThe RTP Control Protocol (RTCP) is a sister protocol of the Real-time Transport Protocol (RTP). Its basic functionality and packet structure is defined in RFC 3550. RTCP provides out-of-band statistics and control information for an RTP session. It partners with RTP in the delivery and packaging of multimedia data, but does not transport any media data itself.\n\nThe primary function of RTCP is to provide feedback on the quality of service (QoS) in media distribution by periodically sending statistics information such as transmitted octet and packet counts, packet loss, packet delay variation, and round-trip delay time to participants in a streaming multimedia session. An application may use this information to control quality of service parameters, perhaps by limiting flow, or using a different codec.\n\nTypically RTP will be sent on an even-numbered UDP port, with RTCP messages being sent over the next higher odd-numbered port.\n\nRTCP itself does not provide any flow encryption or authentication methods. Such mechanisms may be implemented, for example, with the Secure Real-time Transport Protocol (SRTP) defined in RFC 3711.\n\nRTCP provides basic functions expected to be implemented in all RTP sessions:\n\nRTCP reports are expected to be sent by all participants, even in a multicast session which may involve thousands of recipients. Such traffic will increase proportionally with the number of participants. Thus, to avoid network congestion, the protocol must include session bandwidth management. This is achieved by dynamically controlling the frequency of report transmissions. RTCP bandwidth usage should generally not exceed 5% of total session bandwidth. Furthermore, 25% of the RTCP bandwidth should be reserved to media sources at all times, so that in large conferences new participants can receive the CNAME identifiers of the senders without excessive delay.\n\nThe RTCP reporting interval is randomized to prevent unintended synchronization of reporting. The recommended minimum RTCP report interval per station is 5 seconds. Stations should not transmit RTCP reports more often than once every 5 seconds.\n\n\nRTCP distinguishes several types of packets: \"sender report\", \"receiver report\", \"source description\", and \"goodbye\". In addition, the protocol is extensible and allows application-specific RTCP packets. A standards-based extension of RTCP is the \"extended report\" packet type introduced by RFC 3611.\n\n\nIn large-scale applications, such as in Internet Protocol Television (IPTV), very long delays (minutes to hours) between RTCP reports may occur, because of the RTCP bandwidth control mechanism required to control congestion (see Protocol functions). Acceptable frequencies are usually less than one per minute. This affords the potential of inappropriate reporting of the relevant statistics by the receiver or cause evaluation by the media sender to be inaccurate relative to the current state of the session. Methods have been introduced to alleviate the problems: RTCP filtering, RTCP biasing and hierarchical aggregation.\n\nThe Hierarchical Aggregation (or also known as RTCP feedback hierarchy) is an optimization of the RTCP feedback model and its aim is to shift the maximum number of users limit further together with quality of service (QoS) measurement. The RTCP bandwidth is constant and takes just 5% of session bandwidth. Therefore, the reporting interval about QoS depends, among others, on a number of session members and for very large sessions it can become very high (minutes or even hours). However the acceptable interval is about 10 seconds of reporting. Bigger values would cause time-shifted and very inaccurate reported status about the current session status and any optimization made by sender could even have a negative effect to network or QoS conditions.\n\nThe Hierarchical Aggregation is used with Source-Specific Multicast where only a single source is allowed, i.e. IPTV. Another type of multicast could be Any-Source Multicast but it is not so suitable for large-scale applications with huge number of users.\n\n, only the most modern IPTV systems use Hierarchical aggregation.\n\nFeedback Target is a new type of member that has been firstly introduced by the Internet Draft draft-ietf-avt-rtcpssm-13. The Hierarchical Aggregation method has extended its functionality. The function of this member is to receive Receiver Reports (RR) (see RTCP) and retransmit summarized RR packets, so-called Receiver Summary Information (RSI) to a sender (in case of single level hierarchy).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1186840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1186840", "title": "Regulation of therapeutic goods", "text": "Regulation of therapeutic goods\n\nThe regulation of therapeutic goods, that is drugs and therapeutic devices, varies by jurisdiction. In some countries, such as the United States, they are regulated at the national level by a single agency. In other jurisdictions \nthey are regulated at the state level, or at both state and national levels by various bodies, as is the case in Australia.\n\nThe role of therapeutic goods regulation is designed mainly to protect the health and safety of the population. Regulation is aimed at ensuring the safety, quality, and efficacy of the therapeutic goods which are covered under the scope of the regulation. In most jurisdictions, therapeutic goods must be registered before they are allowed to be marketed. There is usually some degree of restriction of the availability of certain therapeutic goods depending on their risk to consumers.\n\nModern drug regulation has historical roots in the response to the proliferation of universal antidotes which appeared in the wake of Mithridates' death. Mithridates had brought together physicians, scientists, and shamans to concoct a potion that would make him immune to poisons. Following his death, the Romans became keen on further developing the Mithridates potion's recipe. Mithridatium re-entered western society through multiple means. The first was through the \"Leechbook of the Bald\" (\"Bald's Leechbook\"), written somewhere between 900 and 950, which contained a formula for various remedies, including for a theriac. Additionally, theriac became a commercial good traded throughout Europe based on the works of Greek and Roman physicians.\n\nThe resulting proliferation of various recipes needed to be curtailed in order to ensure that people were not passing off fake antidotes, which led to the development of government involvement and regulation. Additionally, the creation of these concoctions took on ritualistic form and were often created in public and the process was observed and recorded. It was believed that if the concoction proved unsuccessful, it was due to the apothecaries’ process of making them and they could be held accountable because of the public nature of the creation.\n\nIn the 9th century, many Muslim countries established an office of the \"hisba\", which in addition to regulating compliance to Islamic principles and values took on the role of regulating other aspects of social and economic life, including the regulation of medicines. Inspectors were appointed to employ oversight on those who were involved in the process of medicine creation and were given a lot of leigh weigh to ensure compliance and punishments were stringent. The first official 'act', the 'Apothecary Wares, Drugs and Stuffs' Act (also sometimes referred to as the 'Pharmacy Wares, Drugs and Stuffs' Act) was passed in 1540 by Henry VIII and set the foundation for others. Through this act, he encouraged physicians in his \"College of Physicians\" (founded by him in 1518) to appoint four people dedicated to consistently inspecting what was being sold in apothecary shops. In conjunction with this first piece of legislation, there was an emergence of standard formulas for the creation of certain ‘drugs’ and ‘antidotes’ through Pharmacopoeias which first appeared in the form of a decree from Frederick II of Sicily in 1240 to use consistent and standard formulas. The first modern pharmacopoeias were the Florence Pharmacopoeia published in 1498, the Spanish Pharmacopoeia published in 1581 and the London Pharmacopoeia published in 1618.\n\nIn the United States, regulation of drugs was originally a state right, as opposed to federal right. But with the increase in fraudulent practices due to private incentives to maximize profits and poor enforcement of state laws, increased the need for stronger federal regulation. President Roosevelt signed the Federal Food and Drug Act (FFDA) in 1906 which established stricter standards. A 1911 Supreme Court decision, \"United States vs. Johnson\", established that misleading statements were not covered under the FFDA. This directly led to Congress passing the Sherley Amendment which established a clearer definition of ‘misbranded’.\n\nAnother key catalyst for advances in drug regulation were certain catastrophes that served as calls to the government to step in and impose regulations that would prevent repeats of those instances. One such instance occurred in 1937 when more than a hundred people died from using sulfanilamide elixir which had not gone through any safety testing. This directly led to the passing of the Federal, Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act in 1938. One other major catastrophe occurred in the late 1950s when Thalidomide, which was originally sold in Germany (introduced into a virtually unregulated market) and eventually sold around the world, led to approximately 100,000 babies being born with various deformities.\n\nThe UK's Chief Medical Officer had established a group to look into safety of drugs on the market in 1959 prior to the crisis and was moving in the direction of address the problem of unregulated drugs entering the market. The crisis created a greater sense of emergency to establish safety and efficacy standards around the world. The UK started a temporary Committee on Safety of Drugs while they attempted to pass more comprehensive legislation. Though compliance and submission of drugs to the Committee on Safety of Drugs was not mandatory immediately after, the pharmaceutical industry larger complied due to the thalidomide situation. The European Economic Commission also passed a directive in 1965 in order to impose greater efficacy standards before marketing a drug. The United States congress passed the Drug Amendments Act of 1962 The Drug Amendments Act required the FDA to ensure that new drugs being introduced to the market had passed certain tests and standards. Both the EU and US acts introduced the requirements to ensure safety and efficacy. Of note, increased regulations and standards for testing actually led to greater innovation in pharmaceutical research in the 1960s, despite greater preclinical and clinical standards.\n\nIn 1989, the International Conference of Drug Regulatory Authorities organized by the WHO, officials from around the world discussed the necessity for streamlined processes for global drug approval.\n\nVarious other events throughout history have demonstrated the importance of drug and medicine regulation keeping up with scientific advances. In 2006, the challenges associated with TGN 1412 highlighted the shortcomings of animal models and paved the way for further advances in regulation and development for biological products. Rofecoxib represents a drug that was on the market that had not clearly represent the risks associated with the use drug which led to the concept of 'risk management planning' within the field of regulation by introducing the need to understand how various safety concerns would be managed. Various cases over recent years have demonstrated the need for regulation to keep up with scientific advances that have implications for people's health.\n\nTherapeutic goods in Australia are regulated by the Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA). The availability of drugs and poisons is regulated by scheduling under individual state legislation, but is generally under the guidance of the national Standard for the Uniform Scheduling of Drugs and Poisons (SUSDP).\n\nUnder the SUSDP, medicinal agents generally belong to one of five categories:\n\nTherapeutic goods in Brazil are regulated by the Brazilian Health Ministry, through its National Health Surveillance Agency (equivalent to the USA's FDA). There are five main categories:\n\nIn Canada, regulation of therapeutic goods are governed by the Food and Drug Act and associated regulations. In addition, the Controlled Drugs and Substances Act requires additional regulatory requirements for controlled drugs and drug precursors.\n\nThe regulation of drugs in Burma is governed by the Food and Drug Administration (Burma) and Food and Drug Board of Authority.\n\nThe regulation of drugs in China is governed by the China Food and Drug Administration.\n\nGerman law classifies drugs into\n\nMedicines for Human Use in the United Kingdom are regulated by the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA). The availability of drugs is regulated by classification by the MHRA as part of marketing authorisation of a product.\n\nThe United Kingdom has a three-tiered classification system:\n\nWithin POM, certain agents with a high abuse/addiction liability are also separately scheduled under the Misuse of Drugs Act 1971 (amended with the Misuse of Drugs Regulations 2001); and are commonly known as Controlled Drugs (CD).\n\nMedicines in Norway are divided into five groups:\n\nClass A\nNarcotics, sedative-hypnotics, and amphetamines in this class require a special prescription form:\nClass B \nRestricted substances which easily lead to addiction like:\nClass C - All prescription-only substances\n\nClass F - Substances and package-sizes not requiring a prescription\n\nUnclassifieds - Brands and packages not actively marketed in Norway\n\nMedicines in Iceland are regulated by the Icelandic Medicines Control Agency.\n\nMedicines in the Republic of Ireland are regulated according to the Misuse of Drugs Regulations 1988. Controlled drugs (CDs) are divided into five categories based on their potential for misuse and therapeutic effectiveness.\n\n\nMedicines in Switzerland are regulated by Swissmedic. The country is not part of the European Union, and is regarded by many as one of the easiest places to conduct clinical trials on new drug compounds.\n\nThere are five categories from A to E to cover different types of delivery category:\n\nMedicines in India are regulated by Central Drugs Standard Control Organization (CDSCO) Under Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. Headed by Directorate General of Health Services, CDSCO regulates pharmaceutical products through Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) at Chair.\n\nDrugs are classified under five headings. Under retail and distribution: \nUnder manufacturing practice:\n\nThe Food and Drug Administration regulates drugs and medical devices in the Philippines.\n\nProhibited. Brands and packages not actively marketed in Sri Lanka National Dangerous Drugs Control Board\n\nTherapeutic goods in the United States are regulated by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), which makes some drugs available over the counter (OTC) at retail outlets and others by prescription only.\n\nThe prescription or possession of some substances is controlled or prohibited by the Controlled Substances Act, under the FDA and the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA). Some US states apply more stringent limits on the prescription of certain controlled substances C-V and BTC (behind the counter) drugs such as pseudoephedrine.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8358040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8358040", "title": "Scottish Reform Act 1832", "text": "Scottish Reform Act 1832\n\nThe Scottish Reform Act 1832 was an Act of Parliament that introduced wide-ranging changes to the election laws of Scotland. The act was passed at approximately the same time as the Reform Act 1832, which applied to England and Wales. The chief architects of the act were Francis Jeffrey and Henry Cockburn. It was subsequently given the official short title of the Representation of the People (Scotland) Act 1832. The Act revolutionized politics in Scotland, with its population of 2 million. Its old electorate was only 0.2% of the population compared to 4% in England. The Scottish electorate overnight soared from 5000 to 65,000, or 13% of the adult men, and was no longer a private preserve for a few very rich families.\n\nThe act did not substantially change the method in which the Scottish counties elected members of Parliament. As a general rule the counties each continued to elect one member. However, before the Act six small counties elected an MP only in alternate Parliaments. This arrangement was ended, but a different solution was adopted for each pair of counties. Clackmannanshire and Kinross-shire became a single constituency. Buteshire and Caithness-shire were given a separate MP in every Parliament. Cromartyshire and Nairnshire were each united with a different neighbouring county, to form Ross and Cromarty, and Elginshire and Nairnshire.\n\nEdinburgh and Glasgow now had two MPs; Aberdeen, Dundee, Greenock, Paisley and Perth one each. The remaining burghs combined in districts to elect 18 MPs, much as before; but now individual votes were added up among burghs across the constituency — in the past the MP had been elected at a meeting of representatives from each burgh. Boundary changes meant that a burgh for parliamentary elections might not have the same boundaries as the burgh for other purposes.\n\nThe effect of the Reform Act was considerable. Before 1832 the Scottish Parliamentary electorate had been about 5,000 adult males. Following the passing of the Act, the number of Scottish MPs increased from 45 to 53 and the franchise increased by an even greater proportion, growing from under 5,000 of the 2,300,000 population to 65,000 voters (now covering householders of £10 value in the burghs and property owners of £10 or tenants of £50 rental in the country seats).\n\n"}
{"id": "38686487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38686487", "title": "Silver Gavel Award", "text": "Silver Gavel Award\n\nThe Silver Gavel Award (also known as the ABA Silver Gavel Awards for Media and The Arts) is an annual award the American Bar Association gives to honor outstanding work by those who help improve comprehension of jurisprudence in the United States.\n\nThe award is the American Bar Association's highest form of recognition. The American Bar Association gives out the award during its annual meeting, bestowing one award in each of several categories. Decisions on award recipients are announced by the chairman of the American Bar Association's standing committee on gavel awards. In a comment in the \"ABA Journal\", American Bar Association Division for Public Education representative Howard Kaplan noted, \"From the very beginning, the Association has recognized that legal drama has an unmatched capacity to humanize legal actors and, well, dramatize legal issues for public audiences.\"\n\nThe Bar Association gave the first award in 1958. The film directed by Sidney Lumet, \"12 Angry Men\", received the award in 1958. Stanley Kramer's movie \"Judgment at Nuremberg\" received the award in 1962, and \"To Kill a Mockingbird\" directed by Robert Mulligan was recognized with the award in 1963. In 1985, 391 candidates were entered in consideration to receive a Silver Gavel. In addition to 15 honorees recognized with Silver Gavel Awards in 1987, the American Bar Association also handed out 20 Certificates of Merit. In 1988, 298 organizations submitted 500 candidates for consideration for the Silver Gavel. A total of 12 awards were given out in 1996, in categories including literary works, pieces written in periodicals, journalism, plays, and writing for the screen. The 51st Silver Gavel Awards were announced by American Bar Association president William H. Neukom in Washington, D.C. at the National Press Club and included honorees \"The Denver Post\", \"The Dallas Morning News\", and Jeffrey Toobin for his book \"\". In 2011 Judge Jean Hudson Boyd was the first woman to receive the award.\n\n\"The News & Observer\" noted, \"The ... Silver Gavel Awards are considered the premier honors for law-related publications and productions.\" The \"Pittsburgh Post-Gazette\" characterized the honor as the \"top media award\" of the American Bar Association.\n\n"}
{"id": "730243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=730243", "title": "Social engineering (security)", "text": "Social engineering (security)\n\nSocial engineering, in the context of information security, refers to psychological manipulation of people into performing actions or divulging confidential information. This differs from social engineering within the social sciences, which does not contain the divulging of confidential information. A type of confidence trick for the purpose of information gathering, fraud, or system access, it differs from a traditional \"con\" in that it is often one of many steps in a more complex fraud scheme.\n\nIt has also been defined as \"any act that influences a person to take an action that may or may not be in their best interests.\"\n\nEmployee behavior can have a big impact on information security in organizations. Cultural concepts can help different segments of the organization work effectively or work against effectiveness towards information security within an organization. \"Exploring the Relationship between Organizational Culture and Information Security Culture\" provides the following definition of information security culture: \"ISC is the totality of patterns of behavior in an organization that contribute to the protection of information of all kinds.\"\n\nAndersson and Reimers (2014) found that employees often do not see themselves as part of the organization Information Security \"effort\" and often take actions that ignore organizational information security best interests. Research shows Information security culture needs to be improved continuously. In \"Information Security Culture from Analysis to Change\", authors commented, \"It's a never ending process, a cycle of evaluation and change or maintenance.\" To manage the information security culture, five steps should be taken: Pre-evaluation, strategic planning, operative planning, implementation, and post-evaluation.\n\nAll social engineering techniques are based on specific attributes of human decision-making known as cognitive biases. These biases, sometimes called \"bugs in the human hardware\", are exploited in various combinations to create attack techniques, some of which are listed below. The attacks used in social engineering can be used to steal employees' confidential information. The most common type of social engineering happens over the phone. Other examples of social engineering attacks are criminals posing as exterminators, fire marshals and technicians to go unnoticed as they steal company secrets.\n\nOne example of social engineering is an individual who walks into a building and posts an official-looking announcement to the company bulletin that says the number for the help desk has changed. So, when employees call for help the individual asks them for their passwords and IDs thereby gaining the ability to access the company's private information.\nAnother example of social engineering would be that the hacker contacts the target on a social networking site and starts a conversation with the target. Gradually the hacker gains the trust of the target and then uses that trust to get access to sensitive information like password or bank account details.\n\nSocial engineering relies heavily on the 6 principles of influence established by Robert Cialdini. Cialdini's theory of influence is based on six key principles: reciprocity, commitment and consistency, social proof, authority, liking, scarcity.\n\n\nHis 1984 book, \"Influence: The Psychology of Persuasion\", was based on three \"undercover\" years applying for and training at used car dealerships, fund-raising organizations, and telemarketing firms to observe real-life situations of persuasion. It has been mentioned in \"50 Psychology Classics\".\n\nVishing, otherwise known as \"voice phishing\", is the criminal practice of using social engineering over the telephone system to gain access to private personal and financial information from the public for the purpose of financial reward. It is also employed by attackers for reconnaissance purposes to gather more detailed intelligence on a target organisation.\n\nPhishing is a technique of fraudulently obtaining private information. Typically, the phisher sends an e-mail that appears to come from a legitimate business—a bank, or credit card company—requesting \"verification\" of information and warning of some dire consequence if it is not provided. The e-mail usually contains a link to a fraudulent web page that seems legitimate—with company logos and content—and has a form requesting everything from a home address to an ATM card's PIN or a credit card number. For example, in 2003, there was a phishing scam in which users received e-mails supposedly from eBay claiming that the user's account was about to be suspended unless a link provided was clicked to update a credit card (information that the genuine eBay already had). Because it is relatively simple to make a Web site resemble a legitimate organization's site by mimicking the HTML code and logos the scam counted on people being tricked into thinking they were being contacted by eBay and subsequently, were going to eBay's site to update their account information. By spamming large groups of people, the \"phisher\" counted on the e-mail being read by a percentage of people who already had listed credit card numbers with eBay legitimately, who might respond.\n\nThe act of using SMS text messaging to lure victims into a specific course of action. Like Phishing it can be clicking on a malicious link or divulging information.\n\nPretending or pretexting to be another person with the goal of gaining access physically to a system or building.\n\nPretexting (adj. pretextual), is the act of creating and using an invented scenario (the pretext) to engage a targeted victim in a manner that increases the chance the victim will divulge information or perform actions that would be unlikely in ordinary circumstances. An elaborate lie, it most often involves some prior research or setup and the use of this information for impersonation (\"e.g.\", date of birth, Social Security number, last bill amount) to establish legitimacy in the mind of the target.\n\nThis technique can be used to fool a business into disclosing customer information as well as by private investigators to obtain telephone records, utility records, banking records and other information directly from company service representatives. The information can then be used to establish even greater legitimacy under tougher questioning with a manager, \"e.g.\", to make account changes, get specific balances, etc.\n\nPretexting can also be used to impersonate co-workers, police, bank, tax authorities, clergy, insurance investigators—or any other individual who could have perceived authority or right-to-know in the mind of the targeted victim. The pretexter must simply prepare answers to questions that might be asked by the victim. In some cases, all that is needed is a voice that sounds authoritative, an earnest tone, and an ability to think on one's feet to create a pretextual scenario.\n\nPhone phishing (or \"vishing\") uses a rogue interactive voice response (IVR) system to recreate a legitimate-sounding copy of a bank or other institution's IVR system. The victim is prompted (typically via a phishing e-mail) to call in to the \"bank\" via a (ideally toll free) number provided in order to \"verify\" information. A typical \"vishing\" system will reject log-ins continually, ensuring the victim enters PINs or passwords multiple times, often disclosing several different passwords. More advanced systems transfer the victim to the attacker/defrauder, who poses as a customer service agent or security expert for further questioning of the victim.\n\nAlthough similar to \"phishing\", spear phishing is a technique that fraudulently obtains private information by sending highly customized emails to few end users. It is the main difference between phishing attacks because phishing campaigns focus on sending out high volumes of generalized emails with the expectation that only a few people will respond. On the other hand, spear phishing emails require the attacker to perform additional research on their targets in order to \"trick\" end users into performing requested activities. The success rate of spear-phishing attacks is considerably higher than phishing attacks with people opening roughly 3% of phishing emails when compared to roughly 70% of potential attempts. Furthermore, when users actually open the emails phishing emails have a relatively modest 5% success rate to have the link or attachment clicked when compared to a spear-phishing attack's 50% success rate.\n\nSpear Phishing success is heavily dependent on the amount and quality of OSINT (Open Source Intelligence) that the attacker can obtain. Social media account activity is one example of a source of OSINT.\n\nWater holing is a targeted social engineering strategy that capitalizes on the trust users have in websites they regularly visit. The victim feels safe to do things they would not do in a different situation. A wary person might, for example, purposefully avoid clicking a link in an unsolicited email, but the same person would not hesitate to follow a link on a website they often visit. So, the attacker prepares a trap for the unwary prey at a favored watering hole. This strategy has been successfully used to gain access to some (supposedly) very secure systems.\n\nThe attacker may set out by identifying a group or individuals to target. The preparation involves gathering information about websites the targets often visit from the secure system. The information gathering confirms that the targets visit the websites and that the system allows such visits. The attacker then tests these websites for vulnerabilities to inject code that may infect a visitor's system with malware. The injected code trap and malware may be tailored to the specific target group and the specific systems they use. In time, one or more members of the target group will get infected and the attacker can gain access to the secure system.\n\nBaiting is like the real-world Trojan horse that uses physical media and relies on the curiosity or greed of the victim. In this attack, attackers leave malware-infected floppy disks, CD-ROMs, or USB flash drives in locations people will find them (bathrooms, elevators, sidewalks, parking lots, etc.), give them legitimate and curiosity-piquing labels, and waits for victims.\n\nFor example, an attacker may create a disk featuring a corporate logo, available from the target's website, and label it \"Executive Salary Summary Q2 2012\". The attacker then leaves the disk on the floor of an elevator or somewhere in the lobby of the target company. An unknowing employee may find it and insert the disk into a computer to satisfy their curiosity, or a good Samaritan may find it and return it to the company. In any case, just inserting the disk into a computer installs malware, giving attackers access to the victim's PC and, perhaps, the target company's internal computer network.\n\nUnless computer controls block infections, insertion compromises PCs \"auto-running\" media. Hostile devices can also be used. For instance, a \"lucky winner\" is sent a free digital audio player compromising any computer it is plugged to. A \"road apple\" (the colloquial term for horse manure, suggesting the device's undesirable nature) is any removable media with malicious software left in opportunistic or conspicuous places. It may be a CD, DVD, or USB flash drive, among other media. Curious people take it and plug it into a computer, infecting the host and any attached networks. Hackers may give them enticing labels, such as \"Employee Salaries\" or \"Confidential\".\n\nOne study done in 2016 had researchers drop 297 USB drives around the campus of the University of Illinois. The drives contained files on them that linked to webpages owned by the researchers. The researchers were able to see how many of the drives had files on them opened, but not how many were inserted into a computer without having a file opened. Of the 297 drives that were dropped, 290 (98%) of them were picked up and 135 (45%) of them \"called home\".\n\nQuid pro quo means \"something for something\":\n\n\nAn attacker, seeking entry to a restricted area secured by unattended, electronic access control, e.g. by RFID card, simply walks in behind a person who has legitimate access. Following common courtesy, the legitimate person will usually hold the door open for the attacker or the attackers themselves may ask the employee to hold it open for them. The legitimate person may fail to ask for identification for any of several reasons, or may accept an assertion that the attacker has forgotten or lost the appropriate identity token. The attacker may also fake the action of presenting an identity token.\n\nCommon confidence tricksters or fraudsters also could be considered \"social engineers\" in the wider sense, in that they deliberately deceive and manipulate people, exploiting human weaknesses to obtain personal benefit. They may, for example, use social engineering techniques as part of an IT fraud.\n\nA very recent type of social engineering technique includes spoofing or hacking IDs of people having popular e-mail IDs such as Yahoo!, Gmail, Hotmail, etc. Among the many motivations for deception are:\n\n\nOrganizations reduce their security risks by:\n\nTraining to Employees\nTraining employees in security protocols relevant to their position. (e.g., in situations such as tailgating, if a person's identity cannot be verified, then employees must be trained to politely refuse.)\n\nStandard Framework\nEstablishing frameworks of trust on an employee/personnel level (i.e., specify and train personnel when/where/why/how sensitive information should be handled)\n\nScrutinizing Information\nIdentifying which information is sensitive and evaluating its exposure to social engineering and breakdowns in security systems (building, computer system, etc.)\n\nSecurity Protocols\nEstablishing security protocols, policies, and procedures for handling sensitive information.\n\nEvent Test\nPerforming unannounced, periodic tests of the security framework.\n\nInoculation\nPreventing social engineering and other fraudulent tricks or traps by instilling a resistance to persuasion attempts through exposure to similar or related attempts.\n\nReview\nReviewing the above steps regularly: no solutions to information integrity are perfect.\n\nWaste Management\nUsing a waste management service that has dumpsters with locks on them, with keys to them limited only to the waste management company and the cleaning staff. Locating the dumpster either in view of employees so that trying to access it carries a risk of being seen or caught, or behind a locked gate or fence where the person must trespass before they can attempt to access the dumpster.\n\nKevin Mitnick is an American computer security consultant, author and hacker, best known for his high-profile 1995 arrest and later five year conviction for various computer and communications-related crimes. He now runs the security firm Mitnick Security Consulting, LLC which helps test companies' security strengths, weaknesses, and potential loopholes. He is also the Chief Hacking Officer of the security awareness training company KnowBe4, as well as an active advisory board member at Zimperium, a firm that develops a mobile intrusion prevention system.\n\nSusan Headley was an American hacker active during the late 1970s and early 1980s widely respected for her expertise in social engineering, pretexting, and psychological subversion. She was known for her specialty in breaking into military computer systems, which often involved going to bed with military personnel and going through their clothes for usernames and passwords while they slept. She became heavily involved in phreaking with Kevin Mitnick and Lewis de Payne in Los Angeles, but later framed them for erasing the system files at US Leasing after a falling out, leading to Mitnick's first conviction. She retired to professional poker.\n\nMike Ridpath Security consultant, published author, and speaker. Emphasizes techniques and tactics for social engineering cold calling. Became notable after his talks where he would play recorded calls and explain his thought process on what he was doing to get passwords through the phone and his live demonstrations. As a child Ridpath was connected with Badir Brothers and was widely known within the phreaking and hacking community for his articles with popular underground ezines, such as, Phrack, B4B0 and 9x on modifying Oki 900s, blueboxing, satellite hacking and RCMAC.\n\nBrothers Ramy, Muzher, and Shadde Badir—all of whom were blind from birth—managed to set up an extensive phone and computer fraud scheme in Israel in the 1990s using social engineering, voice impersonation, and Braille-display computers.\n\nFrom the United States and known as the Human Hacker or the People hacker he is the creator and writer of the SEPodcast, the Social Engineering Newsletter. He is the author of four books Social Engineering: The Art of Human Hacking, Unmasking the Social Engineer, Phishing Dark Waters and Social Engineering: The Science of Human Hacking. Hadnagy is a well known public speaker, speaking at events worldwide to share his experience of social engineering.\nIn common law, pretexting is an invasion of privacy tort of appropriation.\n\nIn December 2006, United States Congress approved a Senate sponsored bill making the pretexting of telephone records a federal felony with fines of up to $250,000 and ten years in prison for individuals (or fines of up to $500,000 for companies). It was signed by President George W. Bush on 12 January 2007.\n\nThe 1999 \"GLBA\" is a U.S. Federal law that specifically addresses pretexting of banking records as an illegal act punishable under federal statutes. When a business entity such as a private investigator, SIU insurance investigator, or an adjuster conducts any type of deception, it falls under the authority of the Federal Trade Commission (FTC). This federal agency has the obligation and authority to ensure that consumers are not subjected to any unfair or deceptive business practices. US Federal Trade Commission Act, Section 5 of the FTCA states, in part:\n\"Whenever the Commission shall have reason to believe that any such person, partnership, or corporation has been or is using any unfair method of competition or unfair or deceptive act or practice in or affecting commerce, and if it shall appear to the Commission that a proceeding by it in respect thereof would be to the interest of the public, it shall issue and serve upon such person, partnership, or corporation a complaint stating its charges in that respect.\"\n\nThe statute states that when someone obtains any personal, non-public information from a financial institution or the consumer, their action is subject to the statute. It relates to the consumer's relationship with the financial institution. For example, a pretexter using false pretenses either to get a consumer's address from the consumer's bank, or to get a consumer to disclose the name of their bank, would be covered. The determining principle is that pretexting only occurs when information is obtained through false pretenses.\n\nWhile the sale of cell telephone records has gained significant media attention, and telecommunications records are the focus of the two bills currently before the United States Senate, many other types of private records are being bought and sold in the public market. Alongside many advertisements for cell phone records, wireline records and the records associated with calling cards are advertised. As individuals shift to VoIP telephones, it is safe to assume that those records will be offered for sale as well. Currently, it is legal to sell telephone records, but illegal to obtain them.\n\nU.S. Rep. Fred Upton (R-Kalamazoo, Michigan), chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Telecommunications and the Internet, expressed concern over the easy access to personal mobile phone records on the Internet during a House Energy & Commerce Committee hearing on \"Phone Records For Sale: \"Why Aren't Phone Records Safe From Pretexting?\"\" Illinois became the first state to sue an online records broker when Attorney General Lisa Madigan sued 1st Source Information Specialists, Inc. A spokeswoman for Madigan's office said. The Florida-based company operates several Web sites that sell mobile telephone records, according to a copy of the suit. The attorneys general of Florida and Missouri quickly followed Madigan's lead, filing suits respectively, against 1st Source Information Specialists and, in Missouri's case, one other records broker – First Data Solutions, Inc.\n\nSeveral wireless providers, including T-Mobile, Verizon, and Cingular filed earlier lawsuits against records brokers, with Cingular winning an injunction against First Data Solutions and 1st Source Information Specialists. U.S. Senator Charles Schumer (D-New York) introduced legislation in February 2006 aimed at curbing the practice. The Consumer Telephone Records Protection Act of 2006 would create felony criminal penalties for stealing and selling the records of mobile phone, landline, and Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) subscribers.\n\nPatricia Dunn, former chairwoman of Hewlett Packard, reported that the HP board hired a private investigation company to delve into who was responsible for leaks within the board. Dunn acknowledged that the company used the practice of pretexting to solicit the telephone records of board members and journalists. Chairman Dunn later apologized for this act and offered to step down from the board if it was desired by board members. Unlike Federal law, California law specifically forbids such pretexting. The four felony charges brought on Dunn were dismissed.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11651627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11651627", "title": "South Andean deer", "text": "South Andean deer\n\nThe south Andean deer (\"Hippocamelus bisulcus\"), also known as the southern guemal, Chilean \"huemul or güemul\" ( , ), is an endangered species of deer native to the mountains of Argentina and Chile. One of two mid-sized deer of the \"Hippocamelus\" genus, the south Andean deer ranges across the high mountainsides and cold valleys of the Andes. The distribution and habitat, behaviour, and diet of the deer have all been the subject of study. The viability of the small remaining population is an outstanding concern to researchers.\n\nThe huemul is part of Chile's national coat of arms and it is since 2006 a National Natural Monument.\n\nThe south Andean deer is well-adapted to broken, difficult terrain with a stocky build and short legs. A brown to greyish-brown coat tapers to white undersides and a white marked throat; the long, curled hairs of the coat provide protection against cold and moisture. Does are 70 to 80 kg. (154-176 lbs.) and stand 80 cm. (31 in.), while bucks are 90 kg (198 lbs.) and 90 cm (35 in). (Other weight suggestions are lower.) There is no sexual size difference amongst fawns, which are born unspotted.\n\nSexual dimorphism is notable. Only the bucks have antlers, which are shed each year toward the end of winter. Males also have a distinctive black \"face mask\", which curves into an elongated heart-shape surrounding a forehead of the principal brown colour. Unusually for a dimorphic ungulate, research has shown south Andean deer will congregate in mixed-sex groups, and the length of time spent inter-mixing increases with group size. The farther the animals are from rocky slopes the larger the size of observed groups, suggesting predation rates are lowest on slopes and greatest in open areas such as valley bottoms.\n\nThe animal ranges across a variety of often difficult habitat. Open periglacial scrubland, low bluffs and other rocky areas, and upland forests and forest-border are principal range types. One study of coastal fjord populations found males and juveniles preferred periglacial grassland; females were mainly found on bluffs, and fawns exclusively so. Gunnera plants were a principal dietary item.\n\nWhile it was previously found over much of southwestern South America, the current status of the south Andean deer is critical. Numbers in Argentina were estimated at 350–600, in fragmented groups, as of 2005. Argentinian national authorities have been criticized for calling the species' situation satisfactory, where research shows declining numbers; further research on habitat viability and conservation centers have been urged.\n\nPressures on huemul populations include economic activities and invasive species. One study in Argentina's Nahuel Huapi National Park found thirty-two plant items in its diet. The most common of these, the Lenga beech, was also a primary food item of the red deer, causing displacement to marginal areas and increased vulnerability for the smaller South Andean Deer. Both decreased reproduction rates and increased morbidity may be affecting the population in Argentina; predation by the cougar, the South Andean deer's only natural predator, remains a principal cause of mortality in Argentina.\n\nAccording to the International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN), the species’ original global population is estimated to have suffered reductions of 99 per cent in size and more than 50 per cent in distribution range. Therefore, the species is listed as “Endangered” on the IUCN Red List. Habitat fragmentation and poaching remain the main threats to the species.\n\nUnder the auspices of the Convention on Migratory Species of Wild Animals (CMS) (the Bonn Convention), a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) on the Conservation of the \"huemul\" was concluded between Argentina and Chile, and came into effect on 4 December 2010. The MoU aims to improve the conservation status of the species by close cooperation between the two range States, since the species migrate across the border region of these countries.\n\n\"The Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) on the Conservation of the South Andean Huemul\" is a Bilateral Environmental Memorandum of Understanding between the Argentine Republic and the Republic of Chile. It was concluded under the auspices of the Convention on Migratory Species of Wild Animals (CMS), also known as the Bonn Convention, on 4 December 2010 and came into effect immediately. The MoU has to improve the conservation status of the \"South Andean Huemul\" by close cooperation between the two range States, since the species migrate across the border region of these countries. The MoU covers two range States (the Argentine Republic and the Republic of Chile), both of which have signed.\n\nTo implement the decision of the Fifth Conference of the Parties of CMS to list the South Andean Huemul \"(Hippocamelus bisulcus)\" on Appendix I of the Convention due to its worrying conservation status, an Article IV agreement was concluded between the two range States, the Argentine Republic and the Republic of Chile, and entered into effect immediately on 4 December 2010.\n\nSignatories to South Andean Huemul MoU:\n\nWith fewer than an estimated 1500 animals in the wild, grouped in small, largely isolated populations in 2010, and due to the fact that the South Andean Huemul’s habitat partly covers border areas between the two range States, both countries recognize the need to work in close collaboration in order to improve the situation and to prevent the species from extinction. Through this MoU both countries can take measures to address illegal hunting, habitat degradation, introduction of diseases and other threats to the species.\n\nThe MoU protects all populations of the Huemul occurring within the range of Argentina and Chile. According to the International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN), the species’ original global population is estimated to have suffered reductions of 99 per cent in size and more than 50 per cent in distribution range. Therefore the species is listed as “Endangered” on the IUCN Red List. Habitat fragmentation and poaching remain the main threats to the species.\n\nBoth range States agree to work in close collaboration to:\n\nThe MoU took effect immediately following the signature by both range States (4 December 2010). It has a duration of three years and will be automatically renewed unless one Signatory withdraws from it.\n\nThe MoU states that the two countries shall hold annual meetings, continuing the bilateral technical meetings held since 1992. In the framework of these meetings, the Action Plan implementation shall be evaluated and actions for the following year shall be planned and coordinated. Similarly, exchange of research results, as well as any other technical or legal information, which might be of benefit to the conservation of the species will be shared.\n\nThe secretariat functions are provided by the two Signatories themselves on a rotational basis. During the periods between the annual meetings, the country hosting the next meeting shall serve as interim Secretariat and shall be responsible also for the organization of the meeting. The CMS Secretariat – located in Bonn, Germany – only acts as a depositary of the MoU.\n\nNational technical agencies of the two countries are developing a joint, bi-national Action Plan, based on existing national plans. This Action Plan will promote the exchange of scientific, technical and legal information as well as training of professional staff and park rangers to coordinate conservation measures. Research will be promoted to better understand the ecology and biology of the species as well as factors preventing the recovery of individual groups. Monitoring will be enhanced to collect more data on distribution, abundance and threats. Educational activities and media campaigns will raise awareness about the Huemul’s poor conservation status.\n\nBetween September 26 and 27 2011 a workshop entitled “Towards an Action Plan for the Conservation of Huemul in the Austral Zone” was held in Valdivia, Chile. The purpose of this workshop was to develop the preliminary guidelines for the bi-national Action Plan.\n\nMeanwhile, Argentina has taken some actions to implement the national plans. These include monitoring in the Los Alerces National Park, new Huemul survey work in Estancia Los Huemules, and continued updating of a database of records maintained by the National Parks Administration for both protected and unprotected areas. Contributions have been made to a study of the phylogeography and demographic history of the Huemul by Bio-Bio University in Chile. Work has also been underway in Argentina to update the management plans for the Lanín National Park and the Andino Norpatagónica Biosphere Reserve, with specific reference to measures for Huemul conservation. A project proposal has been developed for controlling livestock in the area occupied by Huemuls in the Los Alerces National Park. Awareness activities have included public talks, production of a two booklet on the conservation of the species linked to the Andino Norpatagónica Biosphere Reserve, and posters distributed in three of the country’s National Parks.\n\nIn Chile, similar activities are underway, with an emphasis on monitoring by rangers of hunting, and future plans for reintroduction work, measures to reduce habitat competition with livestock, awareness raising and strengthening of regulations.\n"}
{"id": "4911054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4911054", "title": "Stephen Guest", "text": "Stephen Guest\n\nStephen Guest, Barrister (Inner Temple) and Barrister and Solicitor (N.Z. High Court), is the Professor of Legal Philosophy at the University College London Faculty of Laws.\n\nGuest obtained his BA in Philosophy (1971) and his LLB at the University of Otago, his BLitt at University College, Oxford (1978) under Professor Ronald Dworkin, and his Ph.D. at University College London (1991). \n\nAmongst his major work is his account of Ronald Dworkin's legal, political and moral philosophy in \"Ronald Dworkin\", Stanford University Press, 2012.\n\n"}
{"id": "5767900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5767900", "title": "Total maximum daily load", "text": "Total maximum daily load\n\nA Total Maximum Daily Load (TMDL) is a regulatory term in the U.S. Clean Water Act, describing a plan for restoring impaired waters that identifies the maximum amount of a pollutant that a body of water can receive while still meeting water quality standards.\n\nThe Clean Water Act requires that state environmental agencies complete TMDLs for impaired waters and that the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) review and approve / disapprove those TMDLs. Because both state and federal governments are involved in completing TMDLs, the TMDL program is an example of cooperative federalism. If a state doesn't take action to develop TMDLs, or if EPA disapproves state-developed TMDLs, the EPA is responsible for issuing TMDLs. EPA published regulations in 1992 establishing TMDL procedures. Application of TMDLs has broadened significantly in the last decade to include many watershed-scale efforts, including the Chesapeake Bay TMDL. TMDLs identify all point source and nonpoint source pollutants within a watershed.\n\nThe Clean Water Act requires states to compile lists of water bodies that do not fully support beneficial uses such as aquatic life, fisheries, drinking water, recreation, industry, or agriculture; and to prioritize those water bodies for TMDL development. These inventories are known as 303(d) Lists and characterize waters as fully supporting, impaired, or in some cases threatened for beneficial uses.\n\nBeneficial use determinations must have sufficient credible water quality data for TMDL planning.\n\nThroughout the U.S., data are often lacking adequate spatial or temporal coverage to reliably establish the sources and magnitude of water quality degradation.\n\nTMDL planning in large watersheds is a process that typically involves the following steps: \n\nThe purpose of water quality targets is to protect or restore beneficial uses and protect human health. These targets may include state/federal numerical water quality standards or narrative standards, i.e. within the range of \"natural\" conditions. Establishing targets to restore beneficial uses is challenging and sometimes controversial. For example, the restoration of a fishery may require reducing temperatures, nutrients, sediments, and improving habitat.\n\nNecessary values for each pollutant target to restore fisheries can be uncertain. The potential for a water body to support a fishery even in a pristine state can be uncertain.\n\nCalculating the TMDL for any given body of water involves the combination of factors that contribute to the problem of nutrient concentrated runoff. Bodies of water are tested for contaminants based on their intended use. Each body of water is tested similarly but designated with a different TMDL. Drinking water reservoirs are designated differently from areas for public swimming and water bodies intended for fishing are designated differently from water located in wildlife conservation areas. The size of the water body also is taken into consideration when TMDL calculating is undertaken. The larger the body of water, the greater the amounts of contaminants can be present and still maintain a Margin of Safety. The \"Margin of Safety (MOS)\" is numeric estimate included in the TMDL calculation, sometimes 10% of the TMDL, intended to allow a safety buffer between the calculated TMDL and the actual load that will allow the water body to meet its beneficial use (since the natural world is complex and several variables may alter future conditions). TMDL is the end product of all point and non-point source pollutants of a single contaminant. Pollutants that originate from a point source are given allowable levels of contaminants to be discharged; this is the \"Waste Load Allocation (WLA).\" Nonpoint source pollutants are also calculated into the TMDL equation with \"Load Allocation (LA).\"\n\nThe calculation of a TMDL is as follows:\nwhere WLA is the waste load allocation for point sources, LA is the load allocation for nonpoint sources, and MOS is the margin of safety.\n\nLoad allocations are equally challenging as setting targets. Load allocations provide a framework for determining the relative share of natural sources and human sources of pollution.\n\nThe natural background load for a pollutant may be imprecisely understood. Industrial dischargers, farmers, land developers, municipalities, natural resource agencies, and other watershed stakeholders each have a vested interest in the outcome.\n\nTo implement TMDLs with point sources, wasteload allocations are incorporated into discharge permits for these sources. The permits are issued by EPA or delegated state agencies under the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES). Nonpoint source discharges (e.g. agriculture) are generally in a voluntary compliance scenario. The TMDL implementation plan is intended to help bridge this divide and ensure that watershed beneficial uses are restored and maintained. Local watershed groups play a critical role in educating stakeholders, generating funding, and implementing projects to reduce nonpoint sources of pollution.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49147389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49147389", "title": "Truth and Justice Commission", "text": "Truth and Justice Commission\n\nThe Truth and Justice Commission of Mauritius was an independent truth commission established in 2009, which explored the impact of slavery and indentured servitude in Mauritius. The Commission was tasked to investigate the dispossession of land, and “determine appropriate measures to be extended to descendants of slaves and indentured laborers.” It was “unique in that it [dealt] with socio-economic class abuses\" and explored the possibility of reparations. The inclusion of reparations, whether for individuals or communities, was a controversial decision within the country which aimed to correct inequality. The Commission attempted to cover more than 370 years, the longest period of time that a truth commission has ever covered.\n\nThe Commission consisted of five members who were appointed by the then President Sir Anerood Jugnauth. The President selected Alex Boraine, the former deputy chair of the South African Truth and Reconciliation Commission, and four Mauritians to oversee the research and publication of a document consisting of seven volumes, and detailing over three centuries of Mauritian history.\n\nThe Truth and Justice Commission documented the \"economics of colonialism, slavery, and indentured servitude, the experiences of indentured Africans, Indians, and French engagés, and living and working conditions on sugar estates.\" In order to aid Mauritians in reconciling the past the commission recommended: \"1) memorializing slavery; 2) a better understanding and more inclusive account of Mauritian history and culture; 3) a better and increased protections of Mauritian heritage; 4) a less racist and elitist society; 5) a more democratic public life, and; 6) empowerment of Mauritians of African and Malagasy origin, as well as other recommendations to increase economic and social justice, particularly related to land issues and equitable and judicious use of the environment.\" Many of these recommendations have yet to be acted upon.\n\nThe Truth and Justice Commission of Mauritius, beginning its work in February 2009, sought to explore the impact of slavery and indentured labour on the islands since colonization in 1638. Traditionally the historic narrative presented to Mauritians has been “the history of the ruling class consisting of French \"colons\" and their descendants.” Slavery and indentured labourers entry into the popular Mauritian historiography has been a recent phenomenon, something which the commission hoped to rectify.\n\nUniquely the Mauritian Truth commission sought to “investigate complaints of the dispossession of land, and to ‘determine appropriate measures to be extended to descendants of slaves and indentures labours.’\" The inclusion of reparations, whether for individuals or communities, was a controversial decision within the country which aimed to correct inequality. Despite the advance brought by the last century many of Afro-Malagasy origin are living in poverty, while descendants of the plantation class enjoy higher living conditions, and importantly land ownership. The Truth and Justice Commission wished to correct this land owning imbalance on the islands.\n\nPrime Minister Ramgoolam, calling for the creation of the commission, argued:\n\n“Years have passed since slavery and indentured labor were abolished. The horrors of such brutality and bondage no longer exist today. But such treatment meted out to human beings does have its psychological impact, which can be permanent and as destructive if not more so, compared to physical slavery\".”\"\n\nThe Prime Minister outlined his hopes for the commission stating:\n\nThe history of our country is based on a continuous quest for freedom and social justice. Our past has been marked by the forcible removal of thousands of people from the mainland of Africa, Madagascar and Asia. These are the darkest and most shameful pages of our history. The introduction of indentured labour under slavish conditions was no less shameful and evil.\n\nFinally, the Prime Minister stated his hope that:\n\nThis Commission will pave the way to reconciliation, social justice and national unity through the process of re-establishing the historical truth. It is the legitimate expectation of everyone to know our true history. It is only after we have been faced with this reality that we can consolidate unity in our country. It is important therefore that we recognise our past history and lay that past to rest so that we can move on to reconciliation, justice and national unity.\n\nThe Dutch East India Company introduced slavery to Mauritius in 1638. The labour force, largely from Batavia, were the preferred form of labour used by the Dutch. The company would maintain their control of the islands until 1710, leaving due to piracy, and the result of wars with both France and Britain. Before their exit however, the Dutch made several attempts to develop the slave trade in the Indian Ocean.\n\nThe French were the next colonial power to enter the Mauritians, taking possession of what they named Isle de France, in 1715. The French continued the Dutch practice of using slave labour in the islands agricultural sector. The Islands were ceded to the French East India Company who began dividing the land, the upper classes receiving 126 hectares and the soldiers and workers being given 63 hectares. Throughout the French rule of the territory, until its loss following the Treaty of Paris of 1814, the slave trade would continue to grow in economic importance in the Indian Ocean.\n\nFollowing the defeat of Napoleon and the loss of Mauritius to Great Britain, the territory continued to rely upon slave labour until slavery's abolition in the British Empire in the 1830s. This would not end exploitation however, as the plantocracy, reliant upon cheap labour, turned to indentured labourers from India and China to work the fields. These labourers, having little rights, would be ruthlessly exploited by the planter class until the late colonial period.\n\nDuring the first month of the Commission planning difficulties were experienced due to Professor Shell being unable to assume full-time chairmanship, visiting the Islands on three occasion during his tenure. A search began for a replacement, and with the aid of Archbishop Desmond Tutu, Dr. Alex Boraine was selected. Dr. Boraine, a South African Professor of Law, was one of the main architects of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission in South Africa, a commission often viewed as a model in the reconciliation process.\n\nLindsay Morvan, due to personal reasons, was forced to resign as a member of the Commission in April 2010, replaced by Jacques David in July 2011.\n\nThe Truth and Justice Commission sought to “conduct inquiries into slavery and indentured labour in Mauritius during the colonial period.”\n\nThe Commission had as its mandate:\n\nIn addition, the Commission also had an underlying mandate to promote reconciliation. In Mauritius, \"reconciliation was seen by many as being possible, only if one did not talk about one’s history. This was no longer possible in contemporary Mauritius.\"\n\nIn order to carry out its mandate the Commission \"focused on three aspects: History; consequences, and how to achieve a more just society.\" To understand the 'Truth' of the past the Commission adopted the perspective of public historians, choosing to understand the perception of truth in Mauritian society, over a traditional historical understanding of the past often changing with new data. The commission conducted interviews, archival research, archival digs, and hearings while conducting their research, largely acting as oral historians.\n\nThe Commission sought the impute of all members of the public, asking those who wished to participate to submit notices. Over 400 cases relevant to the mandate were received, resulting in 230 hearings spanning 2 years. While conducting inquiries the Commission, wishing to streamline the process, identified 9 areas of interest to be researched. The areas were:\nOriginally scheduled to complete their report in June 2011 the Commission requested an extension to September, then October, and finally to completion on 25 November 2011. The delay was primarily due to administrative problems experienced while finalizing the report.\n\nThe Commission published its report in 2011 recommending:\n\nThe report makes over 300 recommendations to the Mauritian government. These largely detail ways in which to bring those persons affected by slavery and indentured labour out of poverty.\n\nThe Truth and Justice Commission submitted its report to the President of Mauritius on 25 November 2011. In the subsequent 3 years several government committees were established to study the report and investigate which of the over 300 recommendations were to be implemented. These committees have provided little feedback and the implementation of recommendations made by the Commission has been so slow in coming that Parmaseeven Veerapen, a former commissioner, has accused the government committees of being little more than an \"eyewash.\" It is unclear if the recommendations forwarded to the government will ever be implemented throughout the country.\n"}
{"id": "309792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=309792", "title": "Weimar Constitution", "text": "Weimar Constitution\n\nThe Constitution of the German Reich (), usually known as the Weimar Constitution (\"Weimarer Verfassung\") was the constitution that governed Germany during the Weimar Republic era (1919–1933). The constitution declared Germany to be a democratic parliamentary republic with a legislature elected under proportional representation. Universal suffrage was established, with a minimum voting age of 20. The constitution technically remained in effect throughout the Nazi era from 1933 to 1945.\n\nThe constitution's title was the same as the Constitution of the German Empire that preceded it. The German state's official name was \"Deutsches Reich\" until the adoption of the 1949 Basic Law.\n\nFollowing the end of World War I, a German National Assembly gathered in the town of Weimar, in the state of Thuringia, after the 19 January 1919 Federal elections, in order to write a constitution for the \"Reich\". The nation was to be a democratic federal republic, governed by a president and parliament.\n\nThe constitution was drafted by the lawyer and liberal politician Hugo Preuss, who was then state secretary in the Ministry of the Interior, and later became Minister of the Interior. Preuss criticized the Triple Entente decision to prohibit the incorporation of post-Austro-Hungarian-dissolution German Austria into the nascent German republic, saying it was a contradiction of the Wilsonian principle of self-determination of peoples.\n\nDisagreements arose between the delegates over issues such as the national flag, religious education for youth, and the rights of the provinces (\"Länder\") that made up the Reich. These disagreements were resolved by August 1919, though sixty-seven delegates abstained from voting to adopt the Weimar Constitution.\n\nThe Republic's first President, Friedrich Ebert, signed the new German constitution into law on 11 August 1919. The constitution is named after Weimar although it was signed into law by Friedrich Ebert in Schwarzburg. This is because Ebert was on holiday in Schwarzburg, while the parliament working out the constitution was gathered in Weimar.\n\nFederal elections were held in Germany on 6 June 1920 in line with the Weimar Constitution.\n\nGerhard Anschütz (1867–1948), a noted German teacher of constitutional law, was a prominent commentator of the Weimar Constitution.\n\nThe Weimar Constitution was divided into two main parts \"(Hauptteile)\". The two parts were divided into seven and five sections, respectively. In all, there were over 180 articles in the Constitution.\n\nSome of the more noteworthy provisions are described below, including those provisions which proved significant in the demise of the Weimar Republic and the rise of Nazi Germany.\n\nThe preamble to the Constitution reads:\n\nIn English, this can be translated as:\n\nThe first part (\"Erster Hauptteil\") of the Constitution specified the organization of the various components of the Reich government.\n\nSection 1 consisted of Articles 1 to 19 and established the German Reich as a republic whose power derived from the people. (\"The power of the state emanates from the people.\") The Reich was defined as the region encompassed by the German states (\"Länder\"), and other regions could join the Reich based on popular self-determination and Reich legislation.\n\nSection 1 also established that generally recognized principles of international law were binding on Germany and gave the Reich government exclusive jurisdiction of:\n\nWith the exceptions of the subjects for which the Reich government had exclusive jurisdiction, the states could govern their respective territories as they saw fit. However, Reich law superseded or nullified state law in the event of a conflict. Adjudication of conflicts between the \"Länder\" and the Reich government was the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court.\n\nState authorities were required to enforce Reich law and must have a constitution on free state principles. Each state parliament (\"Landtag\") was to be elected by an equal and secret ballot according to representative election. Each state government could serve only so long as it had the confidence of the respective state parliament.\n\nArticles 20 to 40 described the national parliament, the \"Reichstag\", which was seated in the capital, Berlin. The Reichstag was composed of representatives elected by the German people by an equal and secret ballot open to all Germans aged 20 or older. Proportional representation principles governed Reichstag elections.\n\nMembers of the Reichstag represented the entire nation and were bound only to their own conscience. Members served for four years. The Reichstag could be dissolved by the Reich president and new elections held not more than 60 days after the date of dissolution.\n\nMembers of the Reichstag and of each state parliament (\"Landtag\") were immune from arrest or investigation of a criminal offense except with the approval of the legislative body to which the person belonged. The same approval was required for any other restriction on personal freedom which might harm the member's ability to fulfil his duties. (Article 37)\n\nThe President served a term of seven years and could be re-elected once. He could be removed from office by plebiscite upon the vote of two-thirds of the Reichstag. Rejection of the measure by the voters would act as a re-election of the president and causes the Reichstag to be dissolved. If a state failed to fulfil its obligations under the constitution or Reich law, the president could use armed force to compel the state to do so. Furthermore, Article 48 gave the President the power to take measures – including the use of armed force and/or the suspension of civil rights – to restore law and order in the event of a serious threat to public safety or Reich security. The president was required to inform the Reichstag of these measures and the Reichstag could nullify such a presidential decree. (Adolf Hitler later used this Article to legally sweep away the civil liberties granted in the constitution and facilitate the establishment of a dictatorship.)\n\nThe Reich chancellor determined the political guidelines of his government and was responsible to the Reichstag. The chancellor and ministers were compelled to resign in the event the Reichstag passed a vote of no confidence. The Reich government (cabinet) formulated decisions by majority vote; in the case of a tie, the Reich president's vote was decisive. The Reichstag could accuse the Reich president, chancellor, or any minister of willful violation of the Constitution or Reich law, said case to be tried in the Supreme Court.\n\nArticles 41 to 59 describe the duties of the President, including criteria for the office. Furthermore, they also further explain his relationship to the National Ministry and its relation to the Chancellor.\n\nSection 4 consisted of Articles 60 to 67 and established the \"Reichsrat\" (State Council). The Reichsrat was the means by which the states could participate in the making of legislation at the national level. Members of the Reichsrat were members or representatives of the state parliaments, and were bound by the instructions of their respective state governments. Government ministers were required to inform the Reichsrat of proposed legislation or administrative regulations to permit the Reichsrat to voice objections.\n\nArticles 68 to 77 specified how legislation is to be passed into law. Laws could be proposed by a member of the Reichstag or by the Reich government and were passed on the majority vote of the Reichstag. Proposed legislation had to be presented to the Reichsrat, and the latter body's objections were required to be presented to the Reichstag.\n\nThe Reich president had the power to decree that a proposed law be presented to the voters as a plebiscite before taking effect.\n\nThe Reichsrat was entitled to object to laws passed by the Reichstag. If this objection could not be resolved, the Reich president at his discretion could call for a plebiscite or let the proposed law die. If the Reichstag voted to overrule the Reichsrat's objection by a two-thirds majority, the Reich president was obligated to either proclaim the law into force or to call for a plebiscite.\n\nConstitutional amendments were proposed as ordinary legislation, but for such an amendment to take effect, it was required that two thirds or more of the Reichstag members be present, and that at least two-thirds of the members present voted in favor of the legislation.\n\nThe Reich government had the authority to establish administrative regulations unless Reich law specified otherwise.\n\nArticles 78 to 101 described the methods by which the Reich government administered the constitution and laws, particularly in the areas where the Reich government had exclusive jurisdiction – foreign relations, colonial affairs, defence, taxation and customs, merchant shipping and waterways, railroads, and so forth.\n\nArticles 102 to 108 established the justice system of the Weimar Republic. The principal provision established judicial independence – judges were subject only to the law.\n\nThis section established a Supreme Court and also established administrative courts to adjudicate disputes between citizens and administrative offices of the state.\n\nThe second part (\"Zweiter Hauptteil\") of the Weimar Constitution laid out the basic rights (\"Grundrechte\") and basic obligations (\"Grundpflichten\") of Germans.\n\nThe constitution guaranteed individual rights such as the freedom of speech and assembly to each citizen. These were based on the provisions of the earlier constitution of 1848.\n\nArticles 109 to 118 set forth individual rights of Germans, the principal tenet being that every German was equal before the law. Both genders had the same rights and obligations. Privileges based on birth or social status were abolished. Official recognition of the titles of nobility ceased, except as a part of a person's name, and further creation of noble titles was discontinued.\n\nA citizen of any of the German provinces was likewise a citizen of the Reich. Germans had the right of mobility and residence, and the right to acquire property and pursue a trade. They had the right to immigrate or emigrate, and the right to Reich protection against foreign authorities.\n\nThe \"national identity\" of foreign language communities in Germany was protected, including the right to use their native language in education, administration, and the judicial system.\n\nOther specific articles stated that:\n\nArticles 119 to 134 guided Germans' interaction with the community and established, among other things, that:\n\nThe religious rights of Germans were enumerated in Articles 135 to 141. Residents of the Reich were granted freedom of belief and conscience. Free practice of religion was guaranteed by the constitution and protected by the state, and no state church was established.\n\nFurthermore, the exercise of civil and civic rights and admission to state office were independent of one's religious beliefs. Public declaration of religious beliefs were not required, and no one was forced to join in a religious act or swear a religious oath.\n\nFive articles from this section of the Constitution (Nos. 136-139 and 141) were explicitly incorporated into the Basic Law of the Federal Republic of Germany (passed in 1949), and so remain Constitutional Law in Germany today.\n\nArticles 142 to 150 guided the operation of educational institutions within the Reich. Public education was provided by state institutions and regulated by the government, with cooperation between the Reich, the province, and the local community. Primary school was compulsory, with advanced schooling available to age 18 free of charge.\n\nThe constitution also provided for private schooling, which was likewise regulated by the government.\nIn private schools operated by religious communities, religious instruction could be taught in accordance with the religious community's principles.\n\nConstitutional provisions about economic affairs were given in Articles 151 to 165. One of the fundamental principles was that economic life should conform to the principles of justice, with the goal of achieving a dignified life for all and securing the economic freedom of the individual.\nThe Reich protected labor, intellectual creation, and the rights of authors, inventors, and artists. The right to form unions and to improve working conditions was guaranteed to every individual and to all occupations, and protection of the self-employed was established.\nWorkers and employees were given the right to participate, on an equal footing with employers, in the regulation of wages and working conditions as well as in economic development.\n\nThe final 16 articles (Articles 166 to 181) of the Weimar Constitution provided for the orderly transition to the new constitution, and stipulated in some cases when the various provisions of the new constitution take effect. In cases where legislation had yet to be passed (such as the laws governing the new Supreme Court), these articles stipulated how the constitutional authority would be exercised in the interim by existing institutions. This section also stipulated that new bodies established by the constitution took the place of obsolete bodies (such as the National Assembly) where those bodies were referred to by name in old laws or decrees.\n\nIt was mandated that public servants and members of the armed forces are to take an oath on this constitution.\nThe previous constitution, dated 15 April 1871, was suspended but other Reich laws and decrees that didn't contradict the new constitution remained in force. Other official decrees based on hitherto-valid law remained valid until superseded by law or by decree.\n\nThe National Assembly was regarded as the Reichstag until the first Reichstag was elected and convened, and the Reich president elected by the National Assembly was to serve until 30 June 1925.\n\nIn his book \"The Rise and Fall of the Third Reich\", historian William L. Shirer described the Weimar Constitution as \"on paper, the most liberal and democratic document of its kind the twentieth century had ever seen ... full of ingenious and admirable devices which seemed to guarantee the working of an almost flawless democracy.\" Yet, the Weimar Constitution had serious problems.\n\nThe allocation of presidential powers was deeply problematic. The Weimar Constitution allowed the president to dismiss the chancellor, even if the chancellor retained the confidence of the Reichstag. Similarly, the president could appoint a chancellor who didn't have the support of the Reichstag. Further, the government structure was a mix of presidential and parliamentary systems, with the president acting as a \"replacement Kaiser\" and assuming some of the powers the monarch would have wielded. Article 48, the so-called \"Notverordnung\" (emergency decree) provision, gave the president broad powers to suspend civil liberties with an insufficient system of checks and balances. This presented an opportunity that Adolf Hitler was quick to seize once he became chancellor. (see Reichstag fire).\n\nThe use of a proportional electoral system without thresholds to win representation has also been cited. This system, intended to avoid the wasting of votes, allowed the rise of a multitude of splinter parties, many of which represented the extreme ends of the political spectrum, which in turn made it difficult for \"any\" party to establish and maintain a workable parliamentary majority. This factionalism was one contributing factor in the frequent changes in government. Shirer cites the presence of some 28 political parties in the 1930 national elections; Otto Friedrich cites 40 different groups in the Reichstag in 1933. There was no threshold to win representation in the Reichstag, and hence no safeguard against a quick rise of an extremist party. It was possible to win a seat in the chamber with as little as 0.4 percent of the vote. In the 1924 elections, for instance, the Bavarian Peasants' League got just 0.7% of the vote—but this was enough for three seats in the Reichstag. However, the rise of the Nazis (NSDAP) to form the largest party during the 1932 elections, can only be attributed to the sentiment of electors in Weimar Germany. Critics of electoral thresholds dispute the argument that the Nazis' token presence in the Reichstags of the 1920s significantly aided their rise to power and that the existence of thresholds in the Weimar constitution would not in fact have hindered Hitler's ambitions - indeed, once the Nazis had met the thresholds they would likely their existence would have actually aided the Nazis by allowing them to marginalize smaller parties even more quickly.\n\nEven without these real and/or perceived problems, the Weimar Constitution was established and in force under disadvantageous social, political, and economic conditions. In his book \"The Coming of the Third Reich\", historian Richard J. Evans argues that \"all in all, Weimar's constitution was no worse than the constitutions of most other countries in the 1920s, and a good deal more democratic than many. Its more problematical provisions might not have mattered so much had the circumstances been different. But the fatal lack of legitimacy from which the Republic suffered magnified the constitution's faults many times over.\"\n\nLess than a month after Adolf Hitler’s appointment as chancellor in 1933, the Reichstag Fire Decree invoked Article 48 of the Weimar Constitution, suspending several constitutional protections on civil rights. The articles affected were 114 (habeas corpus), 115 (inviolability of residence), 117 (correspondence privacy), 118 (freedom of expression /censorship), 123 (assembly), 124 (associations), and 153 (expropriation).\n\nThe subsequent Enabling Act, passed by the Reichstag on 23 March 1933, stated that, in addition to the traditional method of the Reichstag passing legislation, the Reich government could also pass legislation. It further stated that the powers of the Reichstag, Reichsrat and Reich President were not affected. The normal legislative procedures outlined in Articles 68 to 77 of the constitution did not apply to legislation promulgated by the Reich government.\n\nThe Enabling Act was effectively a constitutional amendment because of the foregoing alterations to the normal legislative process. The act met the constitutional requirements (two-thirds of the Reichstag's members were present, and two-thirds of the members present voted in favor of the measure). The Act did not explicitly amend the Weimar Constitution, but there was explicit mention to the fact that the procedure sufficient for constitutional reform was followed. The constitution of 1919 was never formally repealed, but the Enabling Act meant that all its other provisions were a dead letter.\n\nTwo of the penultimate acts Hitler took to consolidate his power in 1934 actually violated the Enabling Act. Article 2 of the act stated that\n'Laws enacted by the government of the Reich may deviate from the constitution as long as they do not affect the institutions of the Reichstag and the Reichsrat. The rights of the President remain undisturbed.'\n\nHindenburg died on 2 August, and Hitler appropriated the president's powers for himself in accordance with a law passed the previous day. However, in 1932 the constitution had been amended to make the president of the High Court of Justice, not the chancellor, acting president pending new elections. Nonetheless, the Enabling Act did not specify any recourse that could be taken if the chancellor violated Article 2, and no legal challenge was ever mounted.\n\nAfter the passage of the Enabling Act, the constitution was largely forgotten. Nonetheless, Hitler used it to give his dictatorship the appearance of legality. Three Reichstag elections were held during his rule. However, voters were presented with a single list of Nazis and \"guest candidates\". Secret voting technically remained possible, but the Nazis utilized aggressive extralegal measures at the polling stations to intimidate the electors from attempting to vote in secret. Thousands of his decrees were based explicitly on the Reichstag Fire Decree, and hence on Article 48.\n\nIn Hitler's 1945 political testament (written shortly before his suicide), he appointed Admiral Karl Dönitz to succeed him. However, he named Dönitz as President, not Führer, thereby re-establishing a constitutional office which had lain dormant since Hindenburg's death ten years earlier. On 30 April 1945, Dönitz formed what became known as the Flensburg government, which controlled only a tiny area of Germany near the Danish border, including the town of Flensburg. It was dissolved by the Allies on 23 May. On 5 June, the Allied Berlin Declaration abolished all the institutions of German civil government, and this established that the constitution no longer held any legal force.\n\nThe 1949 Constitution of the German Democratic Republic contained many passages that were directly copied from the 1919 constitution. It was intended to be the constitution of a united Germany, and was thus a compromise between liberal-democratic and Marxist–Leninist ideologies. It was replaced by a new, explicitly Communist constitution in 1968, which remained in force until the reunification of East and West in 1990.\n\nThe Basic Law for the Federal Republic of Germany, enacted in 1949, said 'provisions of Articles 136, 137, 138, 139 and 141 of the German Constitution of 11 August 1919 shall be an integral part of this Basic Law'. These articles of the Weimar constitution (which dealt with the state's relationship to the different Christian denominations) remain part of the German Basic Law.\n\nIn the judicial system based on the Basic Law, the Weimar constitution initially retained the force of law (with the exception of the Church articles on a non-constitutional level), where the Basic Law contained nothing to the contrary. These norms were, however, largely redundant or dealing with matters reserved to the \"Länder\", and as such officially set out of force within two decades; aside from the Church articles, the rule that titles of nobility are to be considered part of the name and must no longer be bestowed (Art. 109 III) is the only one left in force.\n\nThe first official constitution of the Republic of Korea was originally based on the Weimar Constitution.\n\n† Protections provided by Articles 114, 115, 117, 118, 123, 124, and 153 could be suspended or restricted by the President through invocation of his authority granted under Article 48 of the Weimar Constitution.\n\n"}
{"id": "33545345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33545345", "title": "World Green Building Council", "text": "World Green Building Council\n\nThe World Green Building Council (WorldGBC) is a non-profit organisation and global network of national Green Building Councils (GBCs). It has member councils in over 70 countries worldwide, which collectively have 49,000 members (25,000 member companies and 24,000 individual members).\n\nThe organisation is committed to achieving the following goals by 2050: limiting global temperature rises to 2 degrees Celsius; reducing the building and construction sector’s CO2 emissions by 84 gigatonnes; and ensuring all buildings have net zero emissions. These goals will ensure the buildings and construction sector plays its part in delivering on the ambition of the Paris Agreement.\n\nIn 1993, the first Green Building Council was founded in the US, formed by Rick Fedrizzi, David Gottfried and Mike Italiano with a mission to promote sustainability-focused practices in the building and construction industry. Around the world, other green leaders in the industry looked at the impact of the USGBC and decided to start similar movements in their own countries, led by a GBC. Individuals from across the globe were supported by the USGBC. Gottfried seeded and managed the formation of the “United Nations of the Green Building Councils” with the mission of supporting the development of GBCs, and uniting them with a common voice and purpose.\n\nIn 1999, the founding meeting of WorldGBC was held in California, US. In 2002, WorldGBC was officially formed with eight founding GBCs: Australia, Brazil, Canada, India, Japan, Mexico, Spain, and USA.\n\nIn 2007, a Secretariat for WorldGBC was formally established in Toronto, Canada, supported by the Toronto and Region Conservation Authority – which continues to work with WorldGBC. Start-up funding of over $1 million dollars per year for three years was provided by the Province of Ontario, Canada.\n\nSince then, WorldGBC has seen growth and evolution in its focus and structure. In 2009, WorldGBC launched five regional networks and three membership levels (Prospective, Emerging and Established). In 2010 a Corporate Advisory Board was formed to deliver strategic insight from the industry to the WorldGBC Board. By 2012, there were 71 member GBCs.\n\nThe WorldGBC began to produce reports such as \"The Business Case for Green Building\" in 2013 and \"Health, Wellbeing and Productivity in Offices\" in 2014. In 2015, the WorldGBC Board agreed a new strategic plan for the organisation with five focus areas: Membership; Regional Networks; Projects and Partnerships; Marketing, Communications and Influence; and Governance and Operations.\n\nWorldGBC’s mission is to \"create green buildings for everyone, everywhere\" - enabling people to thrive both today and tomorrow.\n\nWorldGBC has a board of directors, comprising building industry professionals who hold senior positions on the staff or boards of member GBCs (or who are closely affiliated with them). The board’s role is to advise and oversee WorldGBC’s organisational strategy and governance, and to ensure it is operating effectively as a not for profit organisation and delivering on its mission.\n\nGBCs are independent, non-profit organisations made up of businesses and organisations working in the building and construction industry. As members of WorldGBC, they work to advance green building in their own countries, as well as working with other GBCs to achieve environmental, economic and social goals on a larger, global scale.\n\nGBCs are organised into five Regional Networks - powerful, collaborative platforms where they can effectively exchange knowledge, generate new ideas and design solutions that speed up green building in their own markets and across the region. WorldGBC’s five main areas are the Americas, Africa, Asia Pacific, Europe, and the Middle East and North Africa.\n\nMember GBCs also stand at one of WorldGBC’s three levels of development: Prospective, Emerging and Established.\n\nWorldGBC’s Corporate Advisory Board is a select group of companies which are leaders on sustainability and which serve to guide WorldGBC on its strategy and activities. The financial support of the Corporate Advisory Board enables WorldGBC to advance green buildings as an effective solution to environmental, social and economic issues, and help member Green Building Councils to grow and flourish.\n\nThere are currenrtly members of the Corporate Advisory Board: AkzoNobel, City Developments Ltd, JLL, JPMorgan Chase, Keppel Land, Lendlease, Majid Al Futtaim, Philips, Saint-Gobain, Shaw Contract, United Technologies Corporation and Volvo Construction Equipment.\n\nIn addition to its Corporate Advisory Board, WorldGBC has a range of other supporters such as global project sponsors, regional project sponsors, regional partners and pro bono supporters.\n\nWorldGBC has 17 members of staff, based in two main offices, in London and Toronto. The organisation is led by CEO Terri Wills. Five members of staff are regional heads, based in Colombia, Kenya, Singapore, London and Jordan.\n\nWorldGBC’s global projects enable GBCs to work together to tackle key environmental, economic and societal challenges.\n\nCurrent global projects include 'Advancing Net Zero', which aims to promote and support the acceleration of net zero carbon buildings to 100% by 2050; and 'Better Places for People', which supports GBCs and their members in increasing the demand and supply of green buildings which support the health, wellbeing and productivity of people within them. WorldGBC is also a delivery partner on the 'Building Efficiency Accelerator' (BEA), a partnership of businesses, NGOs and multilateral organisations, which aims to help cities take action to improve their buildings.\n\nWorldGBC also has projects which are specific to each of its five regions. Current regional projects include the Energy Efficiency Mortgage Action Plan (EeMAP) initiative in Europe which is exploring the link between energy efficiency and borrower’s reduced probability of default and the increase in value of energy efficient properties.\n\nWorld Green Building Week is an annual global event led by WorldGBC, its network of more than 70 GBCs and their 49,000 members. Beginning in 2009, the week involves special events promoting public awareness of sustainability and green building around a selected theme:\n\nSince 2014 WorldGBC has hosted a congress - a gathering of its member councils and an international conference. The congress is jointly organised by WorldGBC and the host country's GBC. Congresses have been held in São Paulo, Brazil (2014), Hong Kong, China (2015), Stockholm, Sweden (2016), and Jaipur, India (2017). The 2018 congress will be in Toronto, Canada, and 2019's will be in Paris, France.\n\nWorldGBC presents two major annual awards recognising the contributions of individuals to the global green building movement. The Chairman's Award is given to individuals who have made an outstanding contribution to the global green building movement, while the David Gottfried Award is presented to individuals whose contribution to the global green building movement has been shown to be unique, innovative and entrepreneurial. These awards are presented at the WorldGBC Congress.\n\nWorldGBC also hosts the Asia Pacific Regional Network Awards every two years, and supports the MENA Green Building Awards.\n\nWorldGBC has a partnership with the Global Alliance for Buildings and Construction. It aims to gather the support of countries, cities and public and private organisations to ensure the sector helps to meet the Paris Agreement and global goals on climate change. WorldGBC sits on the interim steering committee of the Alliance, developing strong governance to support the 24 countries and 72 non-state organisations which are affiliated with it.\n\nIn December 2017, WorldGBC published its latest annual report, outlining the achievements of the organisation and its global network of GBCs over the previous year. These include 1.24 billion m2 of green building space around the world that has been certified by member Green Building Councils; five new net zero building certifications launched by GBCs through the Advancing Net Zero project; and 31 countries making green building policy changes at either the city, regional or national level, with contributions from GBC.\n\n"}
{"id": "24674310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24674310", "title": "X. and Church of Scientology v. Sweden", "text": "X. and Church of Scientology v. Sweden\n\nX. and Church of Scientology v. Sweden (7805/77) was a case decided by European Commission of Human Rights in 1979.\n\nIn 1973, the Church of Scientology of Sweden placed an advertisement for an E-meter in its periodical. The Consumer Ombudsman, acting upon complaints, requested Market Court an injunction prohibiting the use of certain passages in the advertisement, namely that it was \"an invaluable aid to measuring man's mental state and changes in it\". The court granted the injunction, and the Church's petition was rejected by the Supreme Court.\n\nThe commission declared the application inadmissible. Concerning Article 9 of the Convention (freedom of religion), it mentioned that \"the Market Court did not prevent the Church from selling the E-meter or even advertising it for sale as such\" and stated that \"the concept, contained in the first paragraph of Article 9, concerning the manifestation of a belief in practice does not confer protection on statement of purported religious belief which appear as selling 'arguments' in advertisements of a purely commercial nature by a religious group\", therefore founding no interference with Church's rights.\n\nConcerning Article 10 (freedom of expression), the Commission found an interference with applicant's rights. However, it found the interference necessary in a democratic society, stating that \"the test of 'necessity' in the second paragraph of Article 10 should therefore be a less strict one when applied to restraints imposed on commercial 'ideas' \" (compared with 'political' ideas).\n\nThe case was also significant, since the Commission recognised in its decision the right of a church to petition on behalf of its members, changing the previous practice.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6152414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6152414", "title": "Zorach v. Clauson", "text": "Zorach v. Clauson\n\nZorach v. Clauson, 343 U.S. 306 (1952), was a case in which the Supreme Court of the United States considered a school district allowing students to leave school for part of the day to receive religious instruction.\n\nNew York State law permitted schools to allow some students to leave school during school hours for purposes of religious instruction or practice while requiring others to stay in school. Accordingly, students in New York City were allowed to leave only on written request of their guardians but the schools did not fund or otherwise assist in the development of these programs. The Greater New York Coordinating Committee on Released Time of Jews, Protestants and Roman Catholics shared their attendance with New York City Department of Education to prevent students from playing hooky, however. Several parents sued the district for providing official sanction for religious instruction.\n\nThe Supreme Court upheld the arrangement by finding that it did not violate the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment or the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment because the instruction was not held within the school building and received no public funds. William O. Douglas, writing for the majority, reasoned that \"this 'released time' program involves neither religious instruction in public school classrooms nor the expenditure of public funds... The case is therefore unlike \"McCollum v. Board of Education\".\"\n\nThree Justices dissented from the decision; Hugo Black, Felix Frankfurter and Robert H. Jackson considered the law unconstitutional. All three cited \"McCollum v. Board of Education\" (1948) and believed that the Court did not adequately distinguish between the circumstances in \"McCollum\" and the ones in \"Zorach\". Jackson's dissent was especially strong: \"Today's judgment will be more interesting to students of psychology and of the judicial processes than to students of constitutional law.\"\n\n"}
