{"id": "20424136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20424136", "title": "Andotra", "text": "Andotra\n\nThe Andotra are Rajput clan found in the at state of Jammu and Kashmir in India.\n\nThey were the Landlords or the Zamindars. They owned the lands and also farmed upon them. Andotras are spread over Jammu and Kashmir but are mainly prominent in Kathua.\nThe Andotra Rajputs belong to the agricultural background.\nThey were the Landlords or the Zameendaars. They owned the lands and also farmed upon them. Andotras are spread over Jammu and Kashmir but are mainly prominent in Kathua.\n\nJodh Singh of the Andotra clan is believed to have migrated from Hastinapur to [Kathua] nearly 2,000 years ago.\nHis three sons established the three Hamlets of Taraf Tajwal, Taraf Manjali and Taraf Bhajwal. Their descendent are now called as Tajwalia, Bhajwalia and Khanwalia Rajputs of ANDOTRA sub-caste.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "634008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=634008", "title": "Anti-Racist Action", "text": "Anti-Racist Action\n\nThe Anti-Racist Action Network (ARA) was a decentralized network of anti-fascists and anti-racists in North America which existed from 1987 until 2013. ARA activists organize actions, including the self-defense to disrupt neo-Nazi and white supremacist groups, and help organize activities against fascist and racist ideologies. ARA groups also oppose sexism, homophobia, heterosexism, anti-immigration, Nativism, anti-Semitism, and the anti-abortion movement. ARA originated from the skinhead and punk subcultures with influence from anarchist politics.\n\nAnti-Racist Action was founded in Minneapolis, Minnesota, in the late 1980s by members of the anti-fascist skinhead group Minneapolis Baldies, left-wing punk rock fans, and other activists. ARA then expanded to several communities in the United States and Canada. Members of Love and Rage, a revolutionary anarchist organization, played a major role in building ARA groups and the ARA Network in the 1990s, and the group's structure was formalized in 1994 at the first Midwest Anti-Fascist Network conference, in Columbus, Ohio.\n\nAnti-Racist Action is cited as a precursor to the American movement later known as Antifa.\n\nOn August 24, 2002, a neo-Nazi demonstration was held in Washington, D.C., and several ARA affiliates held a counter-demonstration. A melee resulted and 28 ARA activists were arrested. Within about 36 hours, most had been released from jail, and many claimed that they were not properly informed about any crime they had allegedly committed until their release, if informed at all. The group became known as the \"Baltimore Anti-Racist 28.\" The charges were eventually dropped, and one of the 28 was not charged with any crime due to her status as a minor.\n\nOn October 15, 2005, ARA members participated in a protest in Toledo, Ohio against the National Socialist Movement (NSM), in an incident that became known as the 2005 Toledo Riot.\n\nOn March 21, 2010, ARA members scouted downtown Chicago waiting for the \"White Pride World Wide\" march that was advertised months prior by the Illinois National Socialist Front. Apparently, the INSF had backed out of the march several weeks prior, but four Neo-Nazis were spotted and confronted by anti-fascists. Two members of racist groups were arrested, and a pro-diversity rally was held nearby.\n\nOn April 15, 2011, ARA members confronted the National Socialist Movement's annual conference in Pemberton, New Jersey. A melee ensued with reports indicating that four members of the NSM being hospitalized and the conference being shut down. The following day in Trenton, NJ, the NSM Held a 90-minute rally at the Statehouse, which was outnumbered fourfold by anti-racist counter-protesters.\n\nOn May 19, 2012, up to 20 people wearing masks and black clothes entered the Ashford House Restaurant in Tinley Park (a suburb of Chicago) and attacked white supremacists who were attending the \"fifth annual White Nationalist Economic Summit and Illinois White Nationalist Meet-and-Greet\", organized by the Wood River-based Illinois European Heritage Association, which claims associations with White News Now and Stormfront, an Internet forum for white nationalists. Five members of Hoosier Anti-Racist Movement, which is part of the Anti-Racist Action Network, were subsequently charged with felony counts of mob action, aggravated battery and criminal damage to property, pleading guilty in 2013 and sentenced to terms ranging from 3 ½ to 6 years in prison.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46953643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46953643", "title": "Asociación para la Enseñanza de la Mujer", "text": "Asociación para la Enseñanza de la Mujer\n\nThe Asociación para la Enseñanza de la Mujer (Association for the Education of Women) or AEM, was a women's rights organisation active in Spain from 1870.\n\nIt was founded by the progressive educator Fernando de Castro, professor at the University of Madrid, in 1870. The purpose of the association was to make higher education available to women. The period between the deposition of queen Isabella II of Spain in 1868 and the Restoration of 1875 was a time of intense debate over the reformation of society, which also included the issue of women's rights, which was to become the starting point of the Spanish women's movement. In 1869, Fernando de Castro gave a series of lectures on education of women, in which he argued that education should be made available for women so that they too could fulfill their individual potential and help to bring forward the development of Spain in line with more developed Western nations. A popular argument was also that the perceived maternal instincts of women made them better educators. In 1869, he founded the \"Ateneo Artistico Literario y Senoras\", which was split in the \"Escuela de Institutrices\" and the Asociación Nacional de Mujeres Españolas in 1870. Concepción Arenal, often referred to as the first women's rights activist in Spain, and Faustina Sáez de Melgar was engaged in the AEM from the start, having served in the advisory board of the \"Ateneo Artistico Literario y Senoras\".\n\nThe AEM provided lectures to women in various subjects. As the public educational system did not offer women much education, the AM received funds from its sympathizers to create private educational institutions for women. It founded primary and secondary schools for girls as well as professional training schools for women. It founded the \"School of Business for Young Women\" in 1878, and the \"Postal and Telegraph School\" in 1883. It established itself in many different parts of Spain: it was set up in Vitoria in 1879, Málaga in 1886, and Valencia in 1888. From 1880, it was given some government support.\n\nIt also agitated through lectures, congresses and publications in favor of access of higher education for women, which was the main focus of the women's rights movement in Spain until the struggle for women suffrage begun around 1920, when Asociación Nacional de Mujeres Españolas and other suffrage organisations were founded. The AEM had impact on the pedagogic teacher's conferences, and, eventually, on educational reforms. Though individual female students were accepted before, the universities of Spain did not formally open to women until 1910.\n\n"}
{"id": "17838240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17838240", "title": "Aztec emperors family tree", "text": "Aztec emperors family tree\n\nThe following is a family tree of the Aztec Emperors from 1376 to 1525.\n\n"}
{"id": "33468699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33468699", "title": "Barkul language", "text": "Barkul language\n\nBarkul (Bo-Rukul) is a Plateau language of Nigeria. The two dialects, Bo and Rukul, are notably distinct. The classification of Barkul is unclear, but it appears to be closest to Fyam and Horom.\n"}
{"id": "33633142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33633142", "title": "Biseni language", "text": "Biseni language\n\nBiseni (Buseni) is one of three small Inland Ijaw languages of Nigeria. According to \"Ethnologue\", it is not fully intelligible with other varieties of Inland Ijaw.\n"}
{"id": "466982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=466982", "title": "Black Canadians", "text": "Black Canadians\n\nBlack Canadians is a designation used for people of Black African descent, who are citizens or permanent residents of Canada. The majority of Black Canadians are of Caribbean origin, though the population also consists of African American immigrants and their descendants (including Black Nova Scotians), as well as many African immigrants.\n\nBlack Canadians often draw a distinction between those of Afro-Caribbean ancestry and those of other African roots. The term African Canadian is occasionally used by some Black Canadians who trace their heritage to the first slaves brought by British and French colonists to the North American mainland. Promised freedom by the British during the American Revolutionary War, thousands of Black Loyalists were resettled by the Crown in Canada afterward, such as Thomas Peters. In addition, an estimated ten to thirty thousand fugitive slaves reached freedom in Canada from the Southern United States during the antebellum years, aided by people along the Underground Railroad.\n\nMany Black people of Caribbean origin in Canada reject the term African Canadian as an elision of the uniquely Caribbean aspects of their heritage, and instead identify as Caribbean Canadian (). Unlike in the United States, where African American has become a widely used term, in Canada controversies associated with distinguishing African or Caribbean heritage have resulted in the term \"Black Canadian\" being widely accepted there.\n\nBlack Canadians have contributed to many areas of Canadian culture. Many of the first visible minorities to hold high public offices have been Black, including Michaëlle Jean, Donald Oliver, Stanley G. Grizzle, Rosemary Brown and Lincoln Alexander, in turn opening the door for other minorities. Black Canadians form the third-largest visible minority group in Canada, after South Asian and Chinese Canadians.\n\nAccording to the 2006 Census by Statistics Canada, 783,795 Canadians identified as black, constituting 2.5% of the entire Canadian population. Of the black population, 11% identified as mixed-race of \"white and black\". The five most black-populated provinces in 2006 were Ontario, Quebec, Alberta, British Columbia, and Nova Scotia. The ten most black-populated census metropolitan areas were Toronto, Montreal, Ottawa, Calgary, Vancouver, Edmonton, Hamilton, Winnipeg, Halifax, and Oshawa. Preston, in the Halifax area, is the community with the highest percentage of black people, with 69.4%; it was a settlement where the Crown provided land to Black Loyalists after the American Revolution.\n\nAccording to the 2011 Census, a total of 945,665 Black Canadians were counted, making up 2.9% of Canada's population. In the 2016 Census, the black population totalled 1,198,540, encompassing 3.5% of the country's population.\n\nAt times, it has been claimed that Black Canadians have been significantly undercounted in census data. Writer George Elliott Clarke has cited a McGill University study which found that fully 43% of all Black Canadians were not counted as black in the 1991 Canadian census, because they had identified on census forms as British, French or other cultural identities which were not included in the census group of Black cultures.\n\nAlthough subsequent censuses have reported the population of Black Canadians to be much more consistent with the McGill study's revised 1991 estimate than with the official 1991 census data, no recent study has been conducted to determine whether some Black Canadians are still substantially missed by the self-identification method.\n\nOne of the ongoing controversies in the Black Canadian community revolves around appropriate terminologies. Many Canadians of Afro-Caribbean origin strongly object to the term \"African Canadian\", as it obscures their own culture and history, and this partially accounts for the term's less prevalent use in Canada, compared to the consensus \"African American\" south of the border.\n\nBlack Nova Scotians, a more distinct cultural group, of whom some can trace their Canadian ancestry back to the 1700s, use both terms, African Canadian and Black Canadian. For example, there is an Office of African Nova Scotian Affairs and a Black Cultural Centre for Nova Scotia.\n\n\"Caribbean Canadian\" is often used to refer to Black Canadians of Caribbean heritage, although this usage can also be controversial because the Caribbean is not populated only by people of African origin, but also includes large groups of Indo-Caribbeans, Chinese Caribbeans, European Caribbeans, Syrian or Lebanese Caribbeans, Latinos and Amerindians. The term \"West Indian\" is often used by those of Caribbean ancestry, although the term is more of a cultural description than a racial one, and can equally be applied to groups of many different racial and ethnic backgrounds. The term \"Afro-Caribbean-Canadian\" is occasionally used in response to this controversy, although as of , this term is still not widely seen in common usage.\n\nMore specific national terms such as \"Jamaican Canadian\", \"Haitian Canadian\" or \"Ghanaian Canadian\" are also used. As of , however, there is no widely used alternative to \"Black Canadian\" that is accepted by the Afro-Caribbean population, those of more recent African extraction, and descendants of immigrants from the United States as an umbrella term for the whole group.\n\nOne increasingly common practice, seen in academic usage and in the names and mission statements of some Black Canadian cultural and social organizations but not yet in universal nationwide usage, is to always make reference to both the African and Caribbean communities. For example, one key health organization dedicated to HIV/AIDS education and prevention in the Black Canadian community is now named the \"African and Caribbean Council on HIV/AIDS in Ontario\", the Toronto publication \"Pride\" bills itself as an \"African-Canadian and Caribbean-Canadian news magazine\", and G98.7, a Black-oriented community radio station in Toronto, was initially branded as Caribbean African Radio Network.\n\nIn French, the terms \"noirs canadiens\" or \"afro-canadiens\" are used. \"Nègre\" (\"Negro\") is considered derogatory; Quebec film director Robert Morin faced controversy in 2002 when he chose the title \"Le Neg'\" for a film about anti-Black racism, and more recently in 2015 five placenames containing \"Nègre\" (as well as six that contained the English term \"nigger\") were changed after the Commission de toponymie du Québec ruled the terms no longer acceptable for use in geographic names.\n\nOne of the more noted aspects of Black Canadian history is that while the majority of African Americans trace their presence in the United States through the history of slavery, the Black presence in Canada is rooted almost entirely in voluntary immigration. Despite the various dynamics that may complicate the personal and cultural interrelationships between descendants of the Black Loyalists in Nova Scotia, descendants of former American slaves who viewed Canada as the promise of freedom at the end of the Underground Railroad, and more recent immigrants from the Caribbean or Africa, one common element that unites all of these groups is that they are in Canada because they or their ancestors actively chose of their own free will to settle there.\n\nThe first recorded black person to set foot on land now known as Canada was a free man named Mathieu de Costa. Travelling with navigator Samuel de Champlain, de Costa arrived in Nova Scotia some time between 1603 and 1608 as a translator for the French explorer Pierre Dugua, Sieur de Monts. The first known black person to live in what would become Canada was a slave from Madagascar named Olivier Le Jeune, who may have been of partial Malay ancestry. As a group, black people arrived in Canada in several waves. The first of these came as free persons serving in the French Army and Navy, though some were enslaved or indentured servants. About 1,000 slaves were brought to New France in the 17th and 18th centuries. By the time of the British conquest of New France in 1759-1760, there were about 3, 604 slaves of all races in New France, of whom 1, 132 were black. The majority of the slaves lived in Montreal, the largest city in New France and the center of the lucrative fur trade. Marie-Joseph Angélique, a black slave from Portugal who arrived in New France in 1725, was accused of setting the fire that burned down most of Montreal on 10 April 1734, for which she was executed.\n\nAt the time of the American Revolution, inhabitants of the United States had to decide where their future lay. Those loyal to the British Crown were called United Empire Loyalists and came north. Many White American Loyalists brought their African-American slaves with them, numbering approximately 2,500 individuals. During the war, the British had promised freedom to slaves who left rebel masters and worked for them; this was announced in Virginia through Lord Dunmore's Proclamation. Slaves also escaped to British lines in New York City and Charleston, and their forces evacuated thousands after the war. They transported 3,000 to Nova Scotia.\n\nThis latter group was largely made up of merchants and labourers, and many set up home in Birchtown near Shelburne. Some settled in New Brunswick. Both groups suffered from discriminatory treatment by white settlers and prominent landowners who still held slaves. Some of the refugees had been free black people prior to the war and fled with the other refugees to Nova Scotia, relying on British promises of equality. Under pressure of the new refugees, the city of Saint John amended its charter in 1785 specifically to exclude black people from practising a trade, selling goods, fishing in the harbour, or becoming freemen; these provisions stood until 1870, although by then they were largely ignored.\n\nIn 1782, the first race riot in North America took place in Shelburne; white veterans attacked African-American settlers who were getting work that the former soldiers thought they should have. Due to the failure of the British government to support the settlement, the harsh weather, and discrimination on the part of white colonists, 1,192 Black Loyalist men, women and children left Nova Scotia for West Africa on 15 January 1792. They settled in what is now Sierra Leone, where they became the original settlers of Freetown. They, along with other groups of free transplanted people such as the Black Poor from England, became what is now the Sierra Leone Creole people, also known as the \"Krio\".\n\nAlthough difficult to estimate due to the failure to differentiate slave and free Black populations, it is estimated that by 1784 there were around 40 Black slaves within Montreal, compared to around 304 slaves within the Province of Quebec. By 1799, vital records note 75 entries regarding Black Canadians, a number that doubled by 1809.\n\nOn 26 June 1796, Jamaican Maroons, numbering 543 men, women and children, were deported on board the three ships \"Dover\", \"Mary\" and \"Anne\" from Jamaica, after being defeated in an uprising against the British colonial government. Their initial destination was Lower Canada, but on 21 and 23 July, the ships arrived in Nova Scotia. At this time Halifax was undergoing a major construction boom initiated by Prince Edward, Duke of Kent and Strathearn's efforts to modernize the city's defences. The many building projects had created a labour shortage. Edward was impressed by the Maroons and immediately put them to work at the Citadel in Halifax, Government House, and other defence works throughout the city.\n\nFunds had been provided by the Government of Jamaica to aid in the resettlement of the Maroons in Canada. Five thousand acres were purchased at Preston, Nova Scotia, at a cost of £3000. Small farm lots were provided to the Maroons and they attempted to farm the infertile land. Like the former tenants, they found the land at Preston to be unproductive; as a result they had little success. The Maroons also found farming in Nova Scotia difficult because the climate would not allow cultivation of familiar food crops, such as bananas, yams, pineapples or cocoa. Small numbers of Maroons relocated from Preston to Boydville for better farming land. The British Lieutenant Governor Sir John Wentworth made an effort to change the Maroons' culture and beliefs by introducing them to Christianity. From the monies provided by the Jamaican Government, Wentworth procured an annual stipend of £240 for the support of a school and religious education. The Maroons were not interested in converting from their own religion to Christianity. Strong-willed and opinionated people, they refused to work for less money than was paid to white workers.\n\nAfter suffering through the harsh winter of 1796–97, Wentworth reported the Maroons expressed a desire that \"they wish to be sent to India or somewhere in the east, to be landed with arms in some country with a climate like that they left, where they may take possession with a strong hand\". The British Government and Wentworth opened discussions with the Sierra Leone Company in 1799 to send the Maroons to Sierra Leone. The Jamaican Government had in 1796 initially planned to send the Maroons to Sierra Leone but the Sierra Leone Company rejected the idea. The initial reaction in 1799 was the same, but the Company was eventually persuaded to accept the Maroon settlers. On 6 August 1800 the Maroons departed Halifax, arriving on 1 October at Freetown, Sierra Leone.\n\nUpon their arrival in West Africa in 1800, they were used to quell an uprising among the black settlers from Nova Scotia and London. After eight years, they were unhappy with their treatment by the Sierra Reynolds Company.\n\nThe Canadian climate made it uneconomic to keep slaves year-round, unlike the plantation agriculture practised in the southern United States and Caribbean. Slavery within the colonial economy became increasingly rare. Not all owners were white. Some were half-white. For example, the powerful Mohawk leader Joseph Brant bought an African American named Sophia Burthen Pooley, whom he kept for about 12 years before selling her for $100.\n\nIn 1772, prior to the American Revolution, Britain outlawed the slave trade in the British Isles followed by the \"Knight v. Wedderburn\" decision in Scotland in 1778. This decision, in turn, influenced the colony of Nova Scotia. In 1788, abolitionist James Drummond MacGregor from Pictou published the first anti-slavery literature in Canada and began purchasing slaves' freedom and chastising his colleagues in the Presbyterian church who owned slaves.\n\nIn 1790 John Burbidge freed his slaves. Led by Richard John Uniacke, in 1787, 1789 and again on January 11, 1808, the Nova Scotian legislature refused to legalize slavery. Two chief justices, Thomas Andrew Lumisden Strange (1790–1796) and Sampson Salter Blowers (1797–1832) were instrumental in freeing slaves from their owners in Nova Scotia. These justices were held in high regard in the colony.\n\nIn 1793, John Graves Simcoe, the first Lieutenant-Governor of Upper Canada, attempted to abolish slavery. That same year, the new Legislative Assembly became the first entity in the British Empire to restrict slavery, confirming existing ownership but allowing for anyone born to a female slave after that date to be freed at the age of 25. Slavery was all but abolished throughout the other British North American colonies by 1800. The Slave Trade Act outlawed the slave trade in the British Empire in 1807 and the Slavery Abolition Act of 1833 outlawed slave-holding altogether in the colonies (except for India). This made Canada an attractive destination for many refugees fleeing slavery in the United States, such as minister Boston King.\n\nThe next major migration of black people occurred between 1813 and 1815. Refugees from the War of 1812, primarily from the Chesapeake Bay and Georgia Sea Islands, fled the United States to settle in Hammonds Plains, Beechville, Lucasville, North Preston, East Preston, Africville and Elm Hill, New Brunswick. An April 1814 proclamation of Black freedom and settlement by British Vice-Admiral Alexander Cochrane led to an exodus of around 3,500 Black Americans by 1818. The settlement of the refugees was initially seen as a means of creating prosperous agricultural communities; however, poor economic conditions following the war coupled with the granting of infertile farmland to refugees caused economic hardship. Social integration proved difficult in the early years, as the prevalence of enslaved Africans in the Maritimes caused the newly freed Black Canadians to be viewed on the same level of the enslaved. Politically, the black Loyalist communities in both Nova Scotia and Upper Canada were characterized by what the historian James Walker called \"a tradition of intense loyalty to Britain\" for granting them freedom and Canadian blacks tended to be active in the militia, especially in Upper Canada during the War of 1812 as the possibility of an American victory would also mean the possibility of their re-enslavement. Militarily, a Black Loyalist named Richard Pierpoint, who was born about 1744 in Senegal and who had settled near present-day St. Catharines, Ontario, offered to organize a Corps of Men of Colour to support the British war effort. This was refused but a white officer raised a small black corps. This \"Coloured Corps\" fought at Queenston Heights and the siege of Fort George, defending what would become Canada from the invading American army. Many of the refugees from America would later serve with distinction during the war in matters both strictly military, along with the use of freed slaves in assisting in the further liberation of African Americans slaves.\n\nThere is a sizable community of Black Canadians in Nova Scotia and Southern Ontario who trace their ancestry to African-American slaves who used the Underground Railroad to flee from the United States, seeking refuge and freedom in Canada. From the late 1820s, through the time that the United Kingdom itself forbade slavery in 1833, until the American Civil War began in 1861, the Underground Railroad brought tens of thousands of fugitive slaves to Canada. In 1819, Sir John Robinson, the Attorney-General of Upper Canada, ruled: \"Since freedom of the person is the most important civil right protected by the law of England...the negroes are entitled to personal freedom through residence in Upper Canada and any attempt to infringe their rights will be resisted in the courts\". After Robinson's ruling in 1819, judges in Upper Canada refused American requests to extradite run-away slaves who reached Upper Canada under the grounds \"every man is free who reaches British ground\". One song popular with African-Americans called the \"Song of the Free\" had the lyrics: \"I'm on my way to Canada, That cold and distant land, The dire effects of slavery, I can no longer stand, Farewell, old master, Don't come after me, I'm on my way to Canada, Where colored men are free!\".\n\nIn 1850, the United States Congress passed the Fugitive Slave Act, which gave bounty hunters the right to recapture run-away slaves anywhere in the United States and ordered all federal, state and municipal law enforcement to co-operate with the bounty hunters in seizing run-away slaves. Since the Fugitive Slave Act stripped accused fugitive slaves of any legal rights such as the right to testify in court that they were not run-away slaves, cases of freemen and freewomen being kidnapped off the streets to be sold into slavery become common. The U.S justice system in the 1850s was hostile to black people, and little inclined to champion their rights. In 1857, in the Dred Scott v. Sandford decision, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that black Americans were not and never could be U.S. citizens under any conditions, a ruling that appeared to suggest that laws prohibiting slavery in the northern states were unconstitutional. As a result of the Fugitive Slave Act and legal rulings to expand slavery in the United States, many free blacks living in the United States chose to seek sanctuary in Canada with one newspaper in 1850 mentioning that a group of blacks working for a Pittsburgh hotel had armed themselves with handguns before heading for Canada saying they were \"...determined to die rather be captured\". The \"Toronto Colonist\" newspaper on 17 June 1852 noted that almost every ship or boat coming into Toronto harbor from the American side of Lake Ontario seemed to be carrying a run-away slave. One of the more active \"conductors\" on the Underground Railroad was Harriet Tubman, the \"Black Moses\" who made 11 trips to bring about 300 run-away slaves to Canada, most of whom settled in St. Catherines. Tubman guided her \"passengers\" on nocturnal journeys (travelling via day was too risky) through the forests and swamps, using as her compass the north-star and on cloudy nights seeing what side the moss was growing on trees, to find the best way to Canada. Such trips on the Underground Railroad involved much privation and suffering as Tubman and her \"passengers\" had to avoid both the bounty-hunters and law enforcement and could go for days without food as they travelled through the wilderness, always following the north-star. Tubman usually went to Rochester, New York, where Frederick Douglass would shelter the run-aways and crossed over to Canada at Niagara Falls. Unlike the U.S. customs, which under the Fugitive Slave Act had to co-operate with the bounty hunters, the customs authorities on the Canadian side of the border were far more helpful and \"looked the other way\" when Tubman entered Canada with her \"passengers\".\nDuring the course of one week in June 1854, 23 run-away slaves evaded the U.S border patrols to cross the Detroit river to freedom in Windsor while 43 free people also crossed over to Windsor out of the fear of the bounty hunters. The American-born Canadian historian Daniel G. Hill wrote this week in June 1854 appeared to be typical of the black exodus to Canada. Public opinion tended to be on the side of run-away slaves and against the slavers. On 26 February 1851, the Toronto chapter of the Anti-Slavery Society was founded with what was described by the \"Globe\" newspaper as \"the largest and most enthusiastic meeting we have ever seen in Toronto\" that issued the resolution: \"slavery is an outrage on the laws of humanity and its continued practice demands the best exertions for its extinction\". The same meeting committed its members to help the many \"houseless and homeless victims of slavery flying to our soil\". The Congregationalist minister, the Reverend Samuel Ringgold Ward of New York, who had been born into slavery in Maryland, wrote about Canada West (modern Ontario) that: \"Toronto is somewhat peculiar in many ways, anti-slavery is more popular there than in any city I know save Syracuse...I had good audiences in the towns of Vaughan, Markham, Pickering and in the village of Newmarket. Anti-slavery feeling is spreading and increasing in all these places. The public mind literally thirsts for the truth, and honest listeners and anxious inquirers will travel many miles, crowd our country chapels, and remain for hours eagerly and patiently seeking the light\". Ward himself had been forced to flee to Canada West in 1851 for his role in the Jerry Rescue, leading to his indictment for violating the Fugitive Slave Act. Despite the support to run-away slaves, blacks in Canada West, which become Ontario in 1867, were confided to segregated schools.\n\nAmerican bounty-hunters who crossed into Canada to kidnap black people to sell into slavery were prosecuted for kidnapping if apprehended by the authorities. In 1857, an attempt by two American bounty hunters, T.G. James and John Wells, to kidnap Joseph Alexander, a 20-year old run-away slave from New Orleans living in Chatham, was foiled when a large crowd of black people surrounded the bounty hunters as they were leaving the Royal Exchange Hotel in Chatham with Alexander who had gone there to confront them. Found on one of the bounty hunters was a letter from Alexander's former master describing him as a slave of \"saucy\" disposition who had smashed the master's carriage and freed a span of his horses before running away, adding that he was keen to get Alexander back so he could castrate him. Castration was the normal punishment for a male run-away slave. Alexander gave a speech to the assembled by-standers watching the confrontation denouncing life in the \"slave pens\" of New Orleans as extremely dehumanizing and stated he would rather die than return to living as a slave. Alexander described life in the \"slave pens\" as a regime of daily whippings, beatings and rapes designed to cow the slaves into a state of utter submission. The confrontation ended with Alexander being freed and the crowd marching Wells and James to the railroad station, warning them to never return to Chatham. \n\nThe refugee slaves who settled in Canada did so primarily in South Western Ontario, with significant concentrations being found in Amherstburg, Colchester, Chatham, Windsor, and Sandwich. Run-away slaves tended to concentrate, partly to provide mutual support, party because of prejudices, and partly out of the fear of American bounty hunters crossing the border. The run-away slaves usually arrived destitute and without any assets, had to work as laborers for others until they could save up enough money to buy their own farms. These settlements acted as centres of abolitionist thought, with Chatham being the location of abolitionist John Brown's constitutional convention which preceded the later raid on Harper's Ferry. While the first newspaper published by a black woman was founded in North Buxton by the free Black Mary Ann Shadd which pressed for Black emigration to Canada as the best option for fleeing African Americans. The settlement of Elgin was formed in 1849 with the royal assent of Governor-General of the time James Bruce as a settlement for Black Canadians and escaped slaves based upon social welfare and the prevention of moral decay among the Black community there. Led by the Elgin Association and preacher William King, the settlement flourished as a model of a successful predominantly African settlement which held close to 200 families by 1859.\n\nFrom the abolition of slavery in the British empire in 1834, any black man was born a British subject or become a British subject was allowed to vote and run for office, provided that they owned taxable property. The property requirement on voting in Canada was not ended until 1920. Black Canadian women like all other Canadian women were not granted the right to vote until partially in 1917 ( when wives, daughters, sisters and mothers of servicemen were granted the right to vote) and fully in 1918 (when all women were granted the right to vote). In 1850, Canadian black women together with all other women were granted the right to vote for school trustees, which was the limit of female voting rights in Canada West. In 1848, in Colchester county in Canada West, white men prevented black men from voting in the municipal elections, but following complaints in the courts, a judge ruled that black voters could not be prevented from voting. Ward, writing about the Colchester case in the \"Voice of the Fugitive\" newspaper, declared that the right to vote was the \"most sacred\" of all rights, and that even if white men took away everything from the black farmers in Colchester county, that would still be a lesser crime compared with losing the \"right of a British vote\". In 1859, Abraham Shadd become the first black elected to any office in what became Canada when he was elected to the town council in Raleigh in Kent county in Canada West. In 1851, James Douglas became the governor of Vancouver Island, but that was not an elective one. Unlike in the United States, in Canada after the abolition of slavery in 1834, black Canadians were never stripped of their right to vote and hold office.\n\nThrough often ignored, from time to time, black Canadians did receive notice. In 1857, William Hall of Horton, Nova Scotia, serving as a sailor in the Royal Navy, became the first black man to win the Victoria Cross, the highest decoration for valor in the British empire, for his actions at the siege of Lucknow. Following the end of the American Civil War and subsequent emancipation of enslaved African Americans, a significant population remained, concentrated both within settlements established in the decades preceding the Civil War, and existing urban environments like Toronto.\n\nThe Anti-Slavery Society of Canada estimated in its first report in 1852 that the \"coloured population of Upper Canada\" was about 30,000, of whom almost all adults were \"fugitive slaves\" from the United States. St. Catharines, Ontario had a population of 6,000 at that time; 800 of its residents were \"of African descent\". Many slaves sought refuge in Toronto which was known as a tolerant city. Black Canadians integrated in many areas of society, but the influence of slavery in the south still impacted these citizens. James Mink, an African Canadian who married his daughter to a white man, had his daughter sold into slavery during their honeymoon in the Southern States. She was freed after a large sum of money was paid and this behaviour was characterized as \"a villainy that we are pleased to say characterizes few white [Toronto] men\".\n\nIn 1858, James Douglas, the governor of the British colony of Vancouver Island, replied to an inquiry from a group of black people in San Francisco about the possibilities of settling in his jurisdiction. They were angered that the California legislature had passed discriminatory laws to restrict black people in the state, preventing them from owning property and requiring them to wear badges. Governor Douglas, whose mother was a \"free coloured\" person of mixed black and white ancestry from the Caribbean, replied favourably. Later that year, an estimated 600 to 800 black Americans migrated to Victoria, settling on Vancouver Island and Salt Spring Island. At least two became successful merchants there: Peter Lester and Mifflin Wistar Gibbs. The latter also entered politics, being elected to the newly established City Council in the 1860s.\n\nGibbs returned to the United States with his family in the late 1860s after slavery had been abolished following the war; he settled in Little Rock, Arkansas, the capital of the state. He became an attorney and was elected as the first black judge in the US. He became a wealthy businessman who was involved with the Republican Party; in 1897 he was appointed by the President of the US as consul to Madagascar.\n\nIn the early twentieth century, the Canadian government had an unofficial policy of restricting immigration by black people. The huge influx of immigrants from Europe and the United States in the period before World War I included few black people, as most immigrants were coming from Eastern and Southern Europe.\n\nClifford Sifton's 1910 immigration campaign had not anticipated that black Oklahomans and other black farmers from the Southern United States would apply to homestead in Amber Valley, Alberta and other parts of Canada.\n\nHowever, Canada acted to restrict immigration by black persons, a policy that was formalised in 1911 by Prime Minister Wilfrid Laurier: \n\nHis excellency in Council, in virtue of the provisions of Sub-section (c) of Section 38 of the Immigration Act, is pleased to Order and it is hereby Ordered as follows: For a period of one year from and after the date hereof the landing in Canada shall be and the same is prohibited of any immigrants belonging to the Negro race, which race is deemed unsuitable to the climate and requirements of Canada.\n\nThe flow between the United States and Canada continued in the twentieth century. Some Black Canadians trace their ancestry to people who fled racism in Oklahoma, Texas, and other southern states in the early 1900s as part of the Great Migration out of the rural South, building new homesteads and communities – often block settlements – in Alberta and Saskatchewan just after they became provinces in 1905. Examples include Amber Valley, Campsie, Junkins (now Wildwood) and Keystone (now Breton) in Alberta, as well as a former community in the Rural Municipality of Eldon, north of Maidstone, Saskatchewan (see, for example, Saskatchewan Municipal Heritage Property No. 439: the original log-style Shiloh (Charlow) Baptist Church and associated cemetery, 30 km north of Maidstone.) Many of them were disappointed to encounter racism when they arrived in Canada, which they had regarded as a kind of Promised Land.\n\nHistorically, black Canadians, being descended from either black Loyalists or American run-away slaves, had supported the Conservative Party as the party most inclined to maintain ties with Britain, which was seen as the nation that had given them freedom. The Liberals were historically the party of continentalism (i.e moving Canada closer to the United States), which was not an appealing position for most black Canadians. In the first half of the 20th century, black Canadians usually voted solidly for the Conservatives as the party seen as the most pro-British. Until the 1930s-1940s, the majority of black Canadians lived in rural areas, mostly in Ontario and Nova Scotia, which provided a certain degree of insulation from the effects of racism. The self-contained nature of the rural black communities in Ontario and Nova Scotia with black farmers clustered together in certain rural counties meant that racism was not experienced on a daily basis. The center of social life in the rural black communities were the churches, usually Methodist or Baptist, and ministers were generally the most important community leaders. Through anti-black racism did exist in Canada, as the black population in Canada was extremely small, there was nothing comparable to the massive campaign directed against Asian immigration, the so-called \"Yellow Peril\", which was a major political issue in the late 19th and early 20th centuries, especially in British Columbia. \n\nDuring the First World War, black volunteers to the Canadian Expeditionary Force (CEF) were accepted, but officially were only assigned to construction units to dig trenches on the Western Front. The Reverend William White, who commanded the all-black Number 2 Construction Company of the CEF, founded on 5 July 1916, become one of the few black men to receive an officer's commission in the CEF. However, the Canadian historian René Chartrand noted that in the 1918 painting \"The Conquerors\" by Eric Kennington showing the men of the 16th Canadian Scottish battalion marching through a ruined landscape in France, one of the soldiers wearing kilts is a black man, which he used to suggest that sometimes black volunteers were assigned as front-line infantrymen. Despite the rules restricting black Canadians to construction companies, about 2, 000 Canadians blacks fought as infantrymen in the CEF and several such as James Grant, Jeremiah Jones, Seymour Tyler, Roy Fells, and Curly Christian being noted for heroism under fire. Jeremiah \"Jerry\" Jones of Truro, Nova Scotia enlisted in the 106th Battalion of the CEF in 1916 by lying about his age and was recommended for the Distinguished Conduct Medal for his heroism at Vimy Ridge, where he captured a German machine gun post and was wounded in action, but he never received it. Later in 1917, Jones was badly wounded in the Battle of Passchendaele and was invalided out of the CEF in early 1918. In 2010, Jones was posthumously awarded the Canadian Forces Distinguished Service Medal for his actions at Vimy Ridge. James Grant, a black man from St. Catherine's, won the Military Cross in 1918, for taking a German artillery gun while under heavy fire.\n\nA wave of immigration occurred in the 1920s, with black people from the Caribbean coming to work in the steel mills of Cape Breton, replacing those who had come from Alabama in 1899. Many of Canada's railway porters were recruited from the U.S., with many coming from the South, New York City, and Washington, D.C. They settled mainly in the major cities of Montreal, Toronto, Winnipeg and Vancouver, which had major rail connections. The railroads were considered to have good positions, with steady work and a chance to travel. A noted cause célèbre in the 1920s was the case of Matthew Bullock. He fled to Canada to avoid a potential lynching in North Carolina and fought extradition to the US.\n\nStarting in April 1920 with a series of articles by the left-wing British journalist E.D. Morel detailing alleged sexual crimes committed by the Senegalese serving in the French Army in the Rhineland, various left-wing groups in Britain, the United States and Canada started publicizing the so-called \"Black Horror on the Rhine\". Morel's campaign was carried into Canada with the feminist Rose Henderson for instance warning in a 1925 article in \"The BC Federalist\" about the possibility of blacks being raised \"to subdue and enslave the white peoples\" The willingness of various left-wing groups in Canada to promote the \"Black Horror on the Rhine\" campaign as part of the critique of the Treaty of Versailles as too harsh on Germany-which appealed to the worse racial fears by promoting the image of the Senegalese as brutes with superhuman strength and an insatiable need to rape white women-estranged black Canadians from the left in Canada during the interwar period. Another source of estrangement was the work of one of Canada's leading progressives, the feminist Emily Murphy. In a series of articles for \"Maclean's\" in the early 1920s, which were later turned into the 1922 book \"The Black Candle\", Murphy blamed all of the problems on drug addiction amongst white Canadians on \"Negro drug dealers\" and Chinese opium dealers \"of fishy blood\", accusing black Canadians and Chinese Canadians of trying to destroy white supremacy by getting white Canadians addicted to drugs. \"The Black Candle\" was written in a sensationalist and lurid style meant to appeal to the racial fears of white Canadians, and in this Murphy was completely successful. Due to the popularity of \"The Black Candle\", Chinese immigration to Canada was stopped via the Chinese Exclusion Act of 1923. Marijuana was also banned in 1923 out of the fear prompted by Murphy that marijuana was a drug used by black Canadians to \"corrupt\" white Canadians. A report by the Senate in 2002 noted: \"Early drug legislation was largely based on a moral panic, racist sentiment and a notorious absence of debate.\" Perhaps even more importantly, Murphy established a perceived connection between black Canadians, drugs, and crime in the minds of white Canadians that continues to this day.\n\nMontreal was the largest and most wealthiest city in Canada in the 1920s and also the most cosmopolitan, having a French-Canadian majority with substantial English, Scots, Irish, Italian, and Jewish communities. The multi-cultural atmosphere in Montreal allowed a black community to be established in the 1920s. The black community that emerged in Montreal in the 1920s was largely American in origin, centering around the \"sporting district\" between St. Antoine and Bonaventure streets, which had a reputation as a \"cool\" neighborhood, known for its lively and often riotous nightclubs that opened at 11:00 pm and closed at 5:00 am, where the latest in Afro-American jazz was played, alcohol was consumed in conspicuous quantities, and illegal gambling was usually tolerated. The Nemderloc Club (nemderloc being \"colored men\" spelled backwards), which opened in 1922, was the most famous black club in Montreal, being very popular with both locals and Americans seeking to escape Prohibition by coming to Canada, where alcohol was still legal, hence the saying that American tourists wanted to \"drink Canada dry\". Many of the Afro-Americans who settled in the \"sporting district\" of Montreal came from Harlem to seek a place where it was legal to drink alcohol. Relations between the police and the black community in Montreal were unfriendly with the St. Antoine district being regularly raided by the police looking for illegal drugs and gambling establishments. Despite its reputation as the \"coolest\" neighborhood in Montreal, the St. Antoine neighborhood was a center of poverty with the water being unsafe to drink and a death rate that was twice the norm in Montreal.\n\nAs the Afro-Americans who came to work as railroad porters in Canada were all men, about 40% of the black men living in Montreal in the 1920s were married to white women. This statistic excluded those in common-law relationships, which were also common, and which estranged the black community of Montreal from the conservative and deeply Christian rural black communities in Ontario and Nova Scotia, who were offended by the prevalence of casual sex and common-law relationships in the black community in Montreal. The Afro-American community in Montreal was seen, perhaps not entirely fairly, as a center of debauchery and licentiousness by the other black communities in Canada, who made a point of insisting that Montreal was not all representative of their communities. The West Indian communities in the Maritime provinces, with the largest number working in the Cape Breton steel mills and in the Halifax shipyards always referred pejoratively to the older black community in Nova Scotia as the \"Canadians\" and the black communities in Quebec and Ontario as the \"Americans\". The West Indian communities in Nova Scotia in the 1920s were Anglican, fond of playing cricket, and unlike the other black communities in Canada were often involved in Back-to-Africa movements.\n\nThe historian Robin Winks described the various black Canadian communities in the 1920s as being very diverse, which he described as being made up of \"...rural blacks from small towns in Nova Scotia, prosperous farmers from Ontario, long-time residents of Vancouver Island, sophisticated New York newcomers to Montreal, activist West Indians who were not, they insisted, Negroes at all\"-indeed so diverse that unity was difficult. At the same time, Winks wrote that racism in Canada lacked a \"consistent pattern\" as \"racial borders shifted, gave way, and stood firm without consistency, predictability or even credibility\". Inspired by the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People in the United States, in 1924 J.W. Montgomery of Toronto and James Jenkins of London founded the Canadian League for the Advancement of Colored People as an umbrella group for all of the Canadian black communities. Another attempt to provide unity for the black communities in Canada was made by the followers of Marcus Garvey's United Negro Improvement Association, which opened its first Canadian branch in Montreal in 1919. After his deportation from the United States in 1927, Garvey settled in Montreal in 1928. However, when Garvey urged his American followers not to vote for Herbert Hoover in the 1928 election, the American consul in Montreal complained about this \"interference\" in American politics and Garvey was expelled from Canada at the urging of the U.S. government. Garvey was allowed to return to Canada in 1936 and 1937 where he held rallies in Toronto preaching his Back-to-Africa message. Garvey, an extremely charismatic man who inspired intense devotion in his followers, proved to be a divisive and controversial figure with his Back-to-Africa message and his insistence that black people embrace segregation as the best way forward. Most black Canadian community leaders rejected Garvey's message, arguing that Canada, not Africa, was their home and that embracing segregation was a retrogressive and self-defeating move.\n\nThe Great Depression hit rural Canada very hard and black Canadian farmers especially hard. One consequence was that many of the black Canadian villages and hamlets in Ontario and Nova Scotia, some which were founded in the 18th century as Loyalist settlements, became abandoned as their inhabitants moved to the cities in search of work. In turn, the movement of black Canadians to the cities brought them brutally face to face with racism as a series of informal \"Jim Crow\" restrictions governed restaurants, bars, hotels, and theaters while many landlords refused to rent to black tenants. In October 1937, when a black man purchased a house in Trenton, Nova Scotia, hundreds of white people stormed the house, beat up its owner and destroyed the house under the grounds that a black man moving into the neighborhood would depress property values. Inspired by the unwillingness of the police to protect a black man, the mob then destroyed two other homes owned by black men, an action praised by the mayor for raising property values in Trenton, and the only person charged by the police was a black man who punched out a white trying to destroy his home. Many black Nova Scotians moved into a neighborhood of Halifax that came to be known as Africville, which the white population of Halifax called \"Nigger Town\". Segregation in Truro, Nova Scotia was practiced so fiercely that its black residents took to calling it \"Little Mississippi\". The 1930s saw a dramatic increase in the number and activities of black self-help groups to deal with the impact of racism and the Depression. Another change wrought by the Depression was a change in black families as most married black women had to work in order to provide for their families, marking the end of an era when only the husband worked.\n\nIn the Second World War, black volunteers to the armed forces were initially refused, but the Canadian Army starting in 1940 agreed to take black volunteers, and by 1942 were willing to give blacks officers' commissions. Unlike in World War I, there were no segregated units in the Army and Canadian blacks always served in integrated units. The Army was rather more open to black Canadians rather than the Royal Canadian Navy (RCN) and the Royal Canadian Air Force (RCAF), which both refused for some time to accept black volunteers. By 1942, the RCN had accepted Canadian blacks as sailors while the RCAF had accepted blacks as ground crews and even as airmen, which meant giving them an officer's commission as in the RCAF airmen were always officers. In 1942, newspapers gave national coverage when the five Carty brothers of Saint John, New Brunswick all enlisted in the RCAF on the same day with the general subtext being that Canada was more tolerant than the United States in allowing the black Carty brothers to serve in the RCAF. The youngest of the Carty brothers, Gerald Carty, served as a tail gunner on a Halifax bomber, flying 35 missions to bomb Germany and was wounded in action. The mobilization of the Canadian economy for \"total war\" gave increased economic opportunities for both black men and even more so for black women, many of whom for the first time in their lives found well-paying jobs in war industries.\n\nIn general racism became less fashionable during World War II with two incidents in 1940 illustrating a tendency towards increased tolerance as feelings of wartime national solidarity made display of prejudice less acceptable. A Vancouver bar that refused to serve a black man was fined by a judge when the said man complained while in Toronto a skating rink that turned away blacks found itself the object of a boycott and demonstrations by students from the University of Toronto until the owners of the rink finally agreed to accept black patrons. The incidents in Toronto and Vancouver, as small as they were, would have been inconceivable ten or even five years before. Winks wrote that if the Second World War was not the end of racism in Canada, but it was the beginning of the end as for the first time that many practices that been considered normal were subject to increasing vocal criticism as many black Canadians started to become more assertive.\n\nIn 1942, following complaints from black university graduates that the National Selective Service board assigned them inferior work, a campaign waged by the \"Globe & Mail\" newspaper, the Canadian Jewish Congress, and the \"Winnipeg Free Press\" won a promise from the National Selective Service board to stop using race when assigning potential employees to employers. During the war, unions became more open to accepting black members and Winks wrote the \"most important change\" to black Canadian community caused by World War II was \"the new militancy in the organized black labor unions\". The most militant black unions was the Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Porters, which during the war won major wage increases for black porters working on the railroads. In Winnipeg, a Joint Labor Committee to Combat Racial Intolerance was formed to end discrimination against Jews and Ukrainian-Canadians, but soon agreed to take cases concerning black Canadians. In 1944, Ontario passed the Racial Discrimination Act, which banned the use of any symbol or sign by any businesses with the aim of racial discrimination, which was the first law in Canada intended to address the practice of many businesses of refusing to take black customers.\n\nIn 1946, a black woman from Halifax, Viola Desmond, watched a film in a segregated cinema in New Glasgow, Nova Scotia, which to her being dragged out of the theater by the manager and a policeman and to her being fined for not paying the one cent difference in sales tax between buying a ticket in the white section, where she sat, and the black section, where she was supposed to sit. The Desmond case attracted much publicity as various civil rights groups rallied in her defense. Desmond fought the fine in the appeals court, where she lost, but the incident led the Nova Scotia Association for the Advancement of Colored People to pressure the Nova Scotia government to pass the Fair Employment Act of 1955 and Fair Accommodations Act of 1959. Following more pressure from black Canadian groups, in 1951 Ontario the Fair Employment Practices Act outlawing racial discrimination in employment and the Fair Accommodation Practices Act of 1955. In 1958, Ontario established the Anti-Discrimination Commission, which was renamed the Human Rights Commission in 1961. Led by the American-born black sociologist Daniel G. Hill, the Ontario Anti-Discrimination Commission investigated 2, 000 cases of racial discrimination in first two years, and was described as having a beneficial effect on the ability of Canadian blacks to obtain employment. In 1953, Manitoba passed the Fair Employment Act, which was modeled after the Ontario law, and New Brunswick, Saskatchewan and British Columbia passed similar laws in 1956, followed by Quebec in 1964. \n\nIn March 1960, in the Sharpeville massacre, the South African police gunned 67 black South Africans protesting \"apartheid\", which in sign of changing racial attitudes, caused much controversy in Canada. There was considerable public pressure on the Prime Minister John Diefenbaker to ask for South Africa to be expelled from the Commonwealth following the Sharpeville massacre with many noting that the South African prime minister Hendrik Verwoerd was an admirer of Nazi Germany. At the conference of Commonwealth prime ministers in London in 1960, Diefenbaker tried to avoid discussing the subject of expelling South Africa, but at the next conference in London in 1961, he played a leading role in passing a resolution declaring racial discrimination incompatible with Commonwealth membership, which led to Verwoerd storming of the conference and quitting the Commonwealth. The subject of condemning South Africa for \"apartheid\" benefited the black Canadians since it suggested that racism was not longer acceptable.\n\nCanada maintained its restrictions of immigration until 1962, when racial rules were eliminated from the immigration laws. This coincided with the dissolution of the British Empire in the Caribbean. By the mid-1960s, approximately 15,000 Caribbean immigrants had settled in Toronto. Over the next decades, several hundred thousand Afro-Caribbeans arrived, becoming the predominant black population in Canada. Between 1950 and 1995, about 300,000 people from the West Indies settled in Canada. Outside of the Maritime provinces, where the majority of the black population are the descendants of black Loyalists and American runaway slaves, the majority of black Canadians are descended from immigrants from the West Indies. Since then, an increasing number of new immigrants from Africa have been coming to Canada; they have also immigrated to the United States and Europe. This includes large numbers of refugees, but also many skilled and professional workers pursuing better economic conditions. About 150,000 people from Africa immigrated to Canada between 1950 and 1995.\n\nHowever, a sizable number of Black Canadians who descend from freed American slaves can still be found in Nova Scotia and parts of Southwestern Ontario. Some descendants of the freed American slaves, many of whom were of mixed race descent, have mixed into the white Canadian community and have mostly lost their ethnic identity. Some descendants returned to the United States. Bangor, Maine, for example, received many Black Canadians from the Maritime provinces.\nLike other recent immigrants to Canada, Black Canadian immigrants have settled preferentially in provinces matching the language of their country of origin. Thus, in 2001, 90% of Canadians of Haitian origin lived in Quebec, while 85% of Canadians of Jamaican origin lived in Ontario. A major change in the settlement patterns of black Canadians occurred in the second half of the 20th century as the mostly rural black Canadian communities had become mostly urban communities, a process starting in the 1930s that was complete by the 1970s. Immigrants from the West Indies almost always settled in the cities, and the Canadian historian James Walker called the black Canadian community one of the \"most urbanized of all Canada's ethnic groups\".\n\nOn 29 January 1969, at Sir George Williams University in Montreal, the Sir George Williams affair began with a group of about 200 students, many of whom were black, occupied the Henry Hall computer building in protest against allegations that a white biology professor, Perry Anderson, was biased in grading black students, which the university had dismissed. The student occupation ended in violence on 11 February 1969 when the riot squad of the \"Service de police de la Ville de Montréal\" stormed the Hall building, a fire was started causing $2 million worth of damage (it is disputed whatever the police or the students started the fire), and many of the protesting students were beaten and arrested. The entire event received much media attention; it was recorded live for television by the news crews present. As the Hall building burned and the policemen beat the students, onlookers in the crowds outside chanted \"Burn, niggers, burn!\" and \"Let the niggers burn!\". Afterwards, the protesting students were divided by race by the police with charges laid against the 97 black students present in the Hall building. The two leaders of the protest, Roosevelt \"Rosie\" Douglas and Anne Cools, were convicted and imprisoned with Douglas being deported back to Dominica after completing his sentence, where he later became Prime Minister. Cools received a royal pardon and was appointed to the Senate in 1984 by Pierre Trudeau, becoming the first black senator. The riot at Sir George Williams University spurred-through it did not start-a wave of \"black power\" activism in Canada with many blacks taking the view that the police response was disproportionate and unjustifiably violent while many white Canadians who had believed that their country had no racism were shocked by a race riot in Canada.\n\nIn July 1967, the Caribana festival was started in Toronto by immigrants from the West Indies to celebrate West Indian culture that has become one of the largest celebrations of Caribbean culture in North America. In 1975, a museum telling the stories of African Canadians and their journeys and contributions was established in Amherstburg, Ontario, entitled the Amherstburg Freedom Museum. In Atlantic Canada, the Black Cultural Centre for Nova Scotia was established in Cherrybrook.\n\nStarting in the 1960s with the weakening of ties to Britain together the changes caused by immigration from the West Indies, black Canadians have become active in the Liberal and New Democratic parties as well as the Conservatives. In 1963, the Liberal Leonard Braithwaite became the first black person elected to a provincial legislature when he was elected as a MPP in Ontario. In the 1968 election, Lincoln Alexander was elected as a Progressive Conservative for the riding of Hamilton West, becoming the first black person elected to the House of Commons. In 1979, Alexander become the first black federal Cabinet minister when he was appointed minister of labor in the government of Joe Clark. In 1972, Emery Barnes and Rosemary Brown were elected to the British Columbia legislation as New Democrats. In 1984, the New Democrat Howard McCurdy was elected to the House of Commons as the second black MP while Anne Cools became the first black Senator. In 1985, the Liberal Alvin Curling became the second black man elected to the Ontario legislation, and the first black person to serve as a member of the Ontario cabinet. In 1990, the New Democrat Zanana Akande became the first black female MPP in Ontario and the first black woman to join a provincial cabinet as the minister of community services in the government of Bob Rae. In 1990, the Conservative Donald Oliver became the first black man appointed to the Senate. In 1993, Liberal Wayne Adams became the first black person elected to the Nova Scotia legislation and the first black Nova Scotia cabinet minister. In the 1993 election, Jean Augustine and Hedy Fry were elected to the House of Commons as Liberals, becoming the first female black MPs. In 1996, Fry was promoted up from the backbenches to become the minister for multiculturalism and status of women, making her the first black female federal cabinet minister.\n\nA recurring point of tension in the Toronto region since the 1980s has concerned allegations of police harassment and violence against the black population in the Toronto area. After the killing of Lester Donaldson by the Toronto police in August 1988, the Black Action Defence Committee (BADC) was founded in October 1988 to protest allegations of police brutality against black Canadians in Toronto. The founder of BADC, the Jamaican immigrant Dudley Laws became one of the most recognized figures in Toronto in the 1990s, noted for his willingness to confront the police. Alvin Curling told the \"Toronto Star\" in 2013: \"I think BADC raised the question that this wonderful looking society of Canada and Toronto, as organized as it was, had some systemic racism going on and police behaviour that was not acceptable.\" In April 1992, two white Peel Region police officers were acquitted for killing a 17-year black man, Michael Wade Lawson, who was riding in a stolen car, and then on 2 May 1992, a Toronto police officer killed a 22-year-old black man, Raymond Lawrence, claiming he was wielding a knife, through Lawrence's fingerprints were not found on the knife that was found on his corpse.\n\nOn the evening of 4 May 1992, a march was held on Toronto's Yonge Street by the BADC to protest the killings of Lawrence and Lawson together the acquittal of the police officers who had beaten Rodney King in Los Angeles that was joined by thousands of people who marched to the U.S consulate in Toronto. After holding a sit-in in front of the American consulate, at about 9 pm, the protest turned violent as some of the protesters began to break windows and loot stores on Yonge Street, shouting \"\"No Justice No Peace!\". Recently, what was widely described at the time as a race riot in Toronto had been relabeled by Brock university professor Simon Black as an \"uprising\" reflecting long-standing racial tensions in Toronto. However, other observers of the 1992 riot have described the majority of the looting and vandalism as done by white youths, leading to questions whatever it is appropriate to describe the 1992 riot as a \"race riot\". The issue of police harassment of blacks in Toronto has continued into the 21st century. In 2015, the Toronto journalist Desmond Cole published an article in \"Toronto Life\" entitled \"The Skin I’m In: I’ve been interrogated by police more than 50 times—all because I’m black\", accusing the police of harassing him for his skin color.\n\nWith the secularization of society in late 20th century, the churches have ceased to play the traditionally dominant role in black Canadian communities. Increased educational and job opportunities have led to many black women to seek full-time careers. According to the census of 1991, black Canadians on average received lower wages than white Canadians. However, immigrants from the West Indies and Africa have usually arrived with high level of skills and education, finding work in numerous occupational categories. Efforts have been made to address the long-standing educational gap between black and white Canadians, and in the recent decades, black Canadians have been making economic gains.\n\n\nBelow is a list of provinces, with the number of Black Canadians in each province and their percentage of population.\nSource: Canada 2016 Census\n<br>National average: 3.5% (1,198,540)\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAlthough many Black Canadians live in integrated communities, a number of notable Black communities have been known, both as unique settlements and as Black-dominated neighbourhoods in urban centres.\n\nThe most historically documented Black settlement in Canadian history is the defunct community of Africville, a district located at the North End of peninsular Halifax, Nova Scotia. Its population was relocated and it was demolished in the 1960s to facilitate the urban expansion of the city. Similarly, the Hogan's Alley neighbourhood in Vancouver was largely demolished in 1970, with only a single small laneway in Strathcona remaining.\n\nThe Wilberforce Colony in Ontario was also a historically Black settlement. It evolved demographically as Black settlers moved away. It became dominated by ethnic Irish settlers, who renamed the village Lucan. A small group of Black American settlers from San Francisco were the original inhabitants of Saltspring Island in the mid-19th century.\n\nOther notable Black settlements include North Preston in Nova Scotia, Priceville, Shanty Bay, South Buxton and Dresden in Ontario, the Maidstone/Eldon area in Saskatchewan and Amber Valley in Alberta. North Preston currently has the highest concentration of Black Canadians in Canada, many of whom are descendants of Africville residents. Elm Hill in Hampstead Parish is the last remaining black community in New Brunswick.\n\nOne of the most famous Black-dominated urban neighbourhoods in Canada is Montreal's Little Burgundy, regarded as the spiritual home of Canadian jazz due to its association with many of Canada's most influential early jazz musicians. In present-day Montreal, Little Burgundy and the boroughs of Côte-des-Neiges–Notre-Dame-de-Grâce, LaSalle, Pierrefonds-Roxboro, Villeray–Saint-Michel–Parc-Extension, and Montréal-Nord have large Black populations, the latter of which has a large Haitian population. Several cities in Greater Montreal such as Laval, Terrebonne, Repentigny and Châteauguay also have large Black populations.\n\nIn Winnipeg, the Central Park neighborhood has the largest concentration of Black Canadians in Manitoba. Nearly 25% of area residents are black, as of 2016. The Queen Mary Park and Central McDougall neighbourhoods form the center of the black community in Edmonton. Queen Mary Park has been home to a long-standing African American population since the early 1900s, centered around Shiloh Baptist Church, although today the neighbourhood is composed mostly of recent migrants from Africa.\n\nIn Toronto, many Blacks settled in St. John's Ward, a district which was located in the city's core. Others preferred to live in York Township, on the outskirts of the city. By 1850, there were more than a dozen Black businesses along King Street; the modern-day equivalent is Little Jamaica along Eglinton Avenue, which contains one of the largest concentrations of Black businesses in Canada.\n\nSeveral urban neighbourhoods in Toronto, including Jane and Finch, Rexdale, Downsview, Malvern, Weston, St. James Town, and Lawrence Heights have large Black Canadian communities. The Toronto suburbs of Brampton and Ajax also have sizable Black populations, many of whom are middle income professionals and small business owners. The Greater Toronto Area is home to a highly educated middle to upper middle class Black population who continue to migrate out of the city limits, into surrounding suburbs.\n\nMedia representation of Blacks in Canada has increased significantly in recent years, with television series such as \"Drop the Beat\", \"Lord Have Mercy!\", \"Diggstown\" and \"Da Kink in My Hair\" focusing principally on Black characters and communities.\n\nThe films of Clement Virgo, Sudz Sutherland and Charles Officer have been among the most prominent depictions of Black Canadians on the big screen. Notable films have included Sutherland's \"Love, Sex and Eating the Bones\", Officer's \"Nurse.Fighter.Boy\" and Virgo's \"Rude\" and \"Love Come Down\".\n\nIn literature, the most prominent and famous Black Canadian writers have been Josiah Henson, George Elliott Clarke, Lawrence Hill, Dionne Brand, Esi Edugyan and Dany Laferrière, although numerous emerging writers have gained attention in the 1990s and 2000s.\n\nSince the late 19th century, Black Canadians have made significant contributions to the culture of sports, starting with the founding of the Coloured Hockey League in Nova Scotia. In North America's four major professional sports leagues, several Black Canadians have had successful careers, including Ferguson Jenkins (Baseball Hall of Fame member), Grant Fuhr (Hockey Hall of Fame member), Jarome Iginla, Russell Martin, and Jamaal Magloire; most recently, Andrew Wiggins and P. K. Subban have achieved a high level of success. In athletics, Harry Jerome, Ben Johnson, and Donovan Bailey were Canada's most prominent Black sprinters in recent decades; the current generation is led by Andre De Grasse. \nThe largest and most famous Black Canadian cultural event is the Scotiabank Toronto Caribbean Carnival (also known as Caribana), an annual festival of Caribbean Canadian culture in Toronto which typically attracts at least a million participants each year. The festival incorporates the diversities that exist among the Canadians of African and Caribbean descent.\n\nBlack Canadians have had a major influence on Canadian music, helping pioneer many genres including Canadian hip hop, Canadian blues, Canadian jazz, R&B, Caribbean music, pop music and classical music. Some of the earliest musical influences include Robert Nathaniel Dett, Portia White, Oscar Peterson and Charlie Biddle. Some Black Canadian musicians have enjoyed mainstream worldwide appeal in various genres, such as Dan Hill, Glenn Lewis, Tamia, Deborah Cox, and Kardinal Offishall.\n\nWhile African American culture is a significant influence on its Canadian counterpart, many African and Caribbean Canadians reject the suggestion that their own culture is not distinctive. In his first major hit single \"BaKardi Slang\", rapper Kardinal Offishall performed a lyric about Toronto's distinctive Black Canadian slang: \n\nBecause the visibility of distinctively Black Canadian cultural output is still a relatively recent phenomenon, academic, critical and sociological analysis of Black Canadian literature, music, television and film tends to focus on the ways in which cultural creators are actively engaging the process of \"creating\" a cultural space for themselves which is distinct from both mainstream Canadian culture and African American culture. For example, most of the Black-themed television series which have been produced in Canada to date have been ensemble cast comedy or drama series centred on the creation and/or expansion of a Black-oriented cultural or community institution.\n\n\"The Book of Negroes\", a CBC Television miniseries about slavery based on Lawrence Hill's award-winning novel, was a significant ratings success in January 2015.\n\nIn a 2013 survey of 80 countries by the World Values Survey, Canada ranked among the most racially tolerant societies in the world. Nevertheless, according to Statistics Canada's \"Ethnic Diversity Survey\", released in September 2003, when asked about the five-year period from 1998 to 2002 nearly one-third (32%) of respondents who identified as black reported that they had been subjected to some form of racial discrimination or unfair treatment \"sometimes\" or \"often\".\n\nFrom the late 1970s to the early 1990s, many unarmed black Canadian men in Toronto were shot or killed by Toronto Police officers. In response, the Black Action Defence Committee (BADC) was founded in 1988. BADC's executive director, Dudley Laws, claimed that Toronto had the \"most murderous\" police force in North America, and that police bias against blacks in Toronto was worse than in Los Angeles. In 1990, BADC was primarily responsible for the creation of Ontario's Special Investigations Unit, which investigates police misconduct. Since the early 1990s, the relationship between Toronto Police and the city's black community has improved; in 2015, Mark Saunders became the first black police chief in the city's history. Carding remained an issue as of 2016; restrictions against arbitrary carding came into effect in Ontario in 2017.\n\nThroughout the years, high-profile cases of racism against black Canadians have occurred in Nova Scotia. The province in Atlantic Canada continues to champion human rights and battle against racism, in part by an annual march to end racism against people of African descent.\n\nAdditionally, Black Canadians have historically faced incarceration rates disproportionate to their population. In 1911, black Canadians constituted 0.22% of the population of Canada but 0.321% in prison. White Canadians were incarcerated at a rate of 0.018%. By 1931, 0.385% of black Canadians were in prison, compared to 0.035 of white Canadians.\n\nContemporary rates of incarceration of black Canadians have continued to be disproportionate to their percentage of the general population, with 1 in 10 federal prisoners being black but being 2.9% of the population.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25790552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25790552", "title": "Commercial location development", "text": "Commercial location development\n\nCommercial location development (CLD) is a method used by the public sector to position its territory and create a good frame condition for the development of its economy. After having made a thorough diagnosis of the actual situation the public entities design a Marketing strategy of the location, which includes, as in any marketing mix, the target groups definition (type of enterprises they want to conserve or attract), the offer, the pricing, the promotion and the sale's strategy. The topic includes the recruitment and retention of the appropriate human capital.\n\nThe design of a CLD strategy allows local governments to manage their territorial and economic development accorded to fixed and legitimized goals instead of having to react to single cases and demands in a short time. The concerned territory can be municipal, inter-municipal or larger.\n\nThe aim of this article is to present the methodology and tools used for designing a Commercial Location Development strategy.\n\nThe first step consists of assessing the CLD situation at the level of the considered territory. This can be done using both statistical data and interviews of local stakeholders. The collected information is then summarized using i.e. a balanced scorecard (BSC) or SWOT analysis.\n\nAfter having identified the main territorial competitors, these ones are then assessed using as far as possible the same tools as for the territorial diagnosis. The results are then compared in order to determine in which topics and frame conditions the concerned commercial location has to improve to enhance its competitiveness versus its competitors.\n\nIdeas for the new strategy are then developed taking inspiration out of a benchmarking analysis and/or a best practices or worst practices inventory.\n\nThe strategy is then designed, democratically validated and implemented.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39642356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39642356", "title": "Crime in South Korea", "text": "Crime in South Korea\n\nCrime in South Korea is among the lowest compared to other developed nations.\n\nViolent crimes (such as homicide, assault and arson) and property crimes (such as theft, fraud and vandalism) make up around four-fifths of all Criminal Code Offences\n\nAlthough South Korea has a lower crime rate than other industrialized countries, the crime rate in 2007 was around 2.9 times higher than in 1978, with the total number of crimes committed rising from 513,165 to 1,965,577. On occasion, sudden changes in circumstance have led to cause short-term fluctuations in the crime rate – for example, the crime rate rose by 15% following the 1997 Asian financial crisis, and dropped by 21% during the first ten days of the 2002 FIFA World Cup. There is also a problem in the nation with foreign criminals targeting it due to its relatively affluent status and the perception that it has lax security. 1.4 percent of crimes in the nation are committed by foreigners, which is quite low considering the 3.5% of the population is non-Korean. According to British criminal Colin Blaney in his autobiography 'Undesirables', the country is targeted by English, Canadian, American and German criminals.\n\nSouth Korea has undergone dramatic social, economic and political upheaval since the end of the Korean War in 1953. With these changes crime has increased in recent years and has become a major issue in South Korea. Most of the increase has come in the form of violence and illegal activities connected to organized groups (Lee,2006).\nDue to the large police and military presence after the Korean War, the expansion of home-grown organized crime was slowed, almost giving South Korea immunity against international criminal organizations. With no outside conflicts South Korean organized crime has had an advantage to grow, yet because of the location of the Korean peninsula many outside groups from Russia, Japan and China have started to engage in more illegal activities in South Korea (Lee, 2006).\nAmid the political confusion of the 1950s, a number of organized gangs emerged and became an influential force in the entertainment districts. Soon these groups began associating with politicians, guarding them from danger and disrupting the political rallies of competing politicians by using organized violence. These particular groups were the so-called “political gangs” or “henchmen” (Lee, 2006)\n\nOrganized crime after the War started mainly in the city of Seoul, the capital city of South Korea. Two main gangs formed, the first was known as the “Chong-ro Faction” which was made up of members from southern Korea, and the second was known as the “Myung-dong Faction” whose members where from Pyonyando province. These two gangs claimed dominance over northern Seoul. With the military in control, in the years from 1961 to 1963 13,000 members of these gangs were arrested causing organized gangs to almost completely disappear (Lee, 2006). The 1970s brought an easing of public discipline and control, and opportunities for organized crime emerged again. This saw the emergence of two new groups known as the “Master Sergeant Shin Faction” which was located in the Seoul area and the “Ho-nam Faction” found in the Mugyo-dong area of Seoul. In 1975 there was a violent battle over territories among the two groups which ended with the Ho-nam Faction becoming victorious. The Ho-nam Fraction soon divided into three sub-factions due to internal conflicts. These three factions are now considered the largest organized crime groups in South Korea. They are known as the “Seo-bang Faction,” the “Yang-eun Faction” and the “OB Faction” (Lee, 2006).\n\nTraditional South Korean criminal groups fights rarely resulted in deaths as they fought with their hands, feet and heads. Knives and metal bars only began to show up as weapons in the 1970s. In today’s South Korean society, a person is not to be in possession of guns, swords or knives which may explain why traditional crime groups did not use weapons (Lee, 2006).\n\nUpon the assassination of President Park in 1979 “special measures to uproot social evils” were initiated under the proclaimed martial law which led to a decline in organized criminal violence. But with the relaxed atmosphere these criminal organizations remerged and flourished yet again (Lee, 2006). With the 1985 Asian Games and the 1988 Seoul Summer Olympics global expansion became a possibility and criminal groups took advantage of this opportunity for rapid economic development. Taking advantage of the Korean government's open-door and globalization policies, these crime groups began to form coalitions with their counterparts in Japan, China, Hong Kong, and the United States (Lee, 2006).\n\nIn 1990 the Korean Government declared a “war on crime” in an effort to crack down on violent and non-violent acts by criminally organized groups. The raids in the fall of 1990 crippled most of the existing criminal groups, but did not destroy them. As one way of better controlling the number of criminal groups, the Korean Government made it illegal to form or join any criminal organization. Statistics from the Supreme Prosecutor’s Office showed that in 1999 there were 11,500 members from 404 organized crimes groups ranging from 10 to 88 members in South Korea (Lee, 2006).\n\nWith the trend of economic growth and globalization, organized crime groups in South Korea have become larger in scale and broader in their fields of operations. These international linkages have started to include drug trafficking, financial fraud, weapons smuggling, and human trafficking. Organized transnational crime has become a major concern facing not only Korean government, but also the international community (Lee, 2006).\n\nThe use of drugs in South Korea is a lesser offense; however, there are still drug related offenses in South Korea. Most of the drug related offenses occur in the Gangnam and Yongsan Districts. In 2013, there were 129 drug related crimes reported in the Gangnam area and 48 drug related crimes reported in the Yongsan area.\n\nA Gangnam District representative said, “drugs are usually distributed through the club network, in Gangnam, foreign students and club operators tend to be involved in the drug trade, a relatively easy way to make money.” \n\nAccording to the Supreme Prosecutors’ Office, there were 7,011 arrests for drug offenses in 2011 which was a 7 percent drop from the previous year. The U.S., by way of comparison, in 2010 made more than 1.6 million drug arrests, more than 36 times Korea’s figure, even after differences in population are accounted for. The drug that is most common is Crystalline Methamphetamine also known as Crystal Meth.\n\nCrystal Meth remains the most commonly used drug, accounting for most drug related arrests. Other drugs that are well known are club drugs such as ecstasy. These continue to grow in popularity among college students. However, methamphetamine continues to be the drug of choice for Koreans.\n\nIn South Korea, murder is an uncommon, but serious, crime. Gangseo District and Yeongdeungpo Districts are the two most well-known areas where murders happen most often. In 2013, there were 21 murder cases in the Gangseo District and 11 murder cases in the Yeongdeungpo District. These two districts are found on the southwest part of the city where it houses many low income citizens and foreign workers.\n\nA Dongguk University Police Administration professor, Kwak Dae-gyung said, “there are many foreign residents that have yet to adapt to Korean society and citizens lower in the economic strata in these areas, there’s trouble in terms of economic competition and a lengthy period of cultural assimilation that leads to people committing violent crimes out of frustration and the need for frequent police action.\n\nSouth Korea dropped one notch in an international corruption awareness ranking to 46th place among 177 nations in 2013. According to the 2014 Corruption Perceptions Index (CPI) issued by Transparency International (TI), South Korea scored 55 out of 100. Corruption Perceptions Index . The index shows qualitative assessments of a country's level of corruption in the administrative and public sectors giving a yearly view of the relative degree of corruption by ranking countries from all over the globe. It uses data taken from opinion surveys of experts from each country. The reputation of the country's law enforcement agency has recently been tarnished after a number of ranking government officials, including the head of the state intelligence agency, were indicted for alleged bribery.\nSome 86.5 percent of respondents in a Korea Institute of Public Administration survey of small and large companies described corruption among high-ranking public officials as “serious” in 2010, the highest result since the poll began in 2000. Transparency International, a corruption watchdog, gave South Korea a rating of 5.4 in its 2010 corruption perceptions index — midway between highly corrupt and very clean. That ranks South Korea alongside countries and territories such as Botswana, Puerto Rico and Poland but far below many of the developed nations it has sought to emulate.\n\nProstitution in South Korea is illegal, but according to The Korea Women's Development Institute 여성부 , the sex trade in the country was estimated to amount to 14 trillion South Korean won ($13 billion) in 2007, roughly 1.6 percent of the nation's gross domestic product. In 2003, the Korean Institute of Criminology announced that 260,000 women, or 1 of 25 of young Korean women, may be engaged in the sex industry. However, the Korean Feminist Association alleged that from 514,000 to 1.2 million Korean women participate in the prostitution industry. In addition, a similar report by the Institute noted that 20% of men in their 20s pay for sex at least four times a month, with 358,000 visiting prostitutes daily.\n\nThe sex trade involved some 94 million transactions in 2007, down from 170 million in 2002. The number of prostitutes dropped by 18 percent to 269,000 during the same period. The amount of money traded for prostitution was over 14 trillion won, compared to than 24 trillion won in 2002. Despite legal sanctions and police crackdowns, prostitution continues to flourish in the country, while sex workers continue to actively resist the state's activities.\n\n"}
{"id": "1409652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1409652", "title": "Daniel Carter Beard", "text": "Daniel Carter Beard\n\nDaniel Carter \"Uncle Dan\" Beard (June 21, 1850 – June 11, 1941) was an American illustrator, author, youth leader, and social reformer who founded the Sons of Daniel Boone in 1905, which Beard later merged with the Boy Scouts of America (BSA).\n\nBeard was born in Cincinnati, Ohio, into a family of artists. As a youth, he explored the woods and made sketches of nature. His father was the artist James Henry Beard and his mother was Mary Caroline (Carter) Beard. His uncle was the artist William Holbrook Beard. He lived at 322 East Third Street in Covington, Kentucky near the Licking River, where he learned the stories of Kentucky pioneer life.\n\nHe started an early career as an engineer and surveyor. He attended art school in New York City. He wrote a series of articles for St. Nicholas Magazine that later formed the basis for \"The American Boy's Handy Book\". He was a member of the Student Art League, where he met and befriended Ernest Thompson Seton in 1883. He illustrated a number of books for Mark Twain, and for other authors such as Ernest Crosby.\n\nIn 1908 while living in Redding, Connecticut, Beard was among those on hand to welcome Mark Twain upon his arrival to the author's new villa Stormfield.\n\nBeard became the editor of \"Recreation\" magazine and wrote a monthly column for youth. He founded the Sons of Daniel Boone in 1905, basing it on American frontier traditions. He later moved his column to \"Woman's Home Companion\". After conflicts with a new editor, he moved to the \"Pictorial Review\". Since Women's Home Companion retained the rights to the name, he simply renamed the organization to \"Boy Pioneers of America\".\n\nBeard merged his organization into the Boy Scouts of America when it was founded in 1910. Beard became one of the first National Scout Commissioners of the Boy Scouts and served it for 30 years. He later became the editor of \"Boys' Life\" magazine, the BSA official magazine, and wrote a monthly column for youth. The work of both Beard and Ernest Thompson Seton are in large part the basis of the Traditional Scouting movement.\n\nBeard also helped his sister organize the Camp Fire Girls. Beard was a Freemason, initiated in the Mariners Lodge No. 67 (New York City). He was also an award for Masonic Scouters has been named in his honor.\n\nBeard founded Boy Scouts Troop 1 in Flushing, New York, which is believed to be one of the oldest continuously chartered Boy Scout Troops in the United States. Beard became an Eagle Scout at the age of 64 on February 15, 1915.\n\nPrior to the establishment of the Distinguished Eagle Scout Award, Dan Beard was recipient of the only \"gold Eagle badge\" awarded at the Second National Training Conference of Scout Executives held in 1922 in Blue Ridge, North Carolina.\n\nDan Beard was also involved with the Culver Academies' summer camp program for many years, which used his \"Sons of Daniel Boone\" program. This program still exists as the Academy's Culver Woodcraft Camp.\n\nBeard died on June 11, 1941, shortly before his 91st birthday at his home Brooklands in Suffern, New York. He was buried near his home at the Brick Church Cemetery in Spring Valley, New York. The National Program Director of the Boy Scouts of America, E. Urner Goodman, was selected to be in charge of the beloved youth leader's funeral in Suffern. An estimated 2,000 people lined the funeral route to the cemetery in Monsey, New York, where 127 Boy Scouts formed an honor guard and assisted with traffic control.\n\nThe Daniel Carter Beard Bridge carries I-471 across the Ohio River. A life-size bronze statue of Daniel Carter Beard and a Boy Scout, created by world-renowned sculptor Kenneth Bradford, stands at 322 East 3rd Street in Covington, Kentucky, Beard's boyhood home. The nearby Daniel Carter Beard Boyhood Home is now a National Historic Landmark in the Riverside Drive Historic District.\n\nJunior High School 189 Daniel Carter Beard is located in Flushing, Queens, New York; the Daniel Carter Beard Mall is a nearby park. The Daniel Carter Beard Elementary School is located in Chicago, Illinois.\n\nThe Dan Beard Council is the administrative body of the BSA in the Greater Cincinnati area.\n\nMany Scout camps have sites named after Beard including Philmont Scout Ranch in New Mexico, Forestburg Scout Reservation in Forestburg, New York and Broad Creek Memorial Scout Reservation in Maryland and Tama Hills in Tokyo, Japan. Other camps have programs named after Beard, such as the first-year camper program at McKee Scout Reservation in Kentucky.\n\nThe Forest Preserves of Cook County, Illinois, has long had a campground called Camp Dan Beard.\n\nFreemasons in the U.S. offer the Daniel Carter Beard Masonic Scouter Award for Masons who are involved with Scouting. The BSA offers the James E. West Fellowship Award; an advanced level is the 1910 Society which in turn includes levels of contributions—the Daniel Carter Beard is recognized for a gift of at least $100,000.\n\nMount Dan Beard, a peak in the Alaska Range near Denali in Denali National Park and Preserve, is named after Beard.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33768115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33768115", "title": "Domestic violence in Iran", "text": "Domestic violence in Iran\n\nDomestic violence in Iran is a form of expressed by one partner or partners against another partner or partners in the content of an intimate relationship in Iran. \n\nIn Iran, domestic relations in a couple are regulated by the Civil Code, which constructs marriage as a hierarchic institution where the husband has authority over his wife. Article 1105 reads: \"In relations between husband and wife; the position of the head of the family is the exclusive right of the husband\". The husband is obligated to maintain his wife, but this obligation ceases to exist if the wife does not perform her duties: Article 1108 states: \"If the wife refuses to fulfil duties of a wife without legitimate excuse, she will not be entitled to the cost of maintenance\".\n\nThe nature of domestic violence is complicated by both a national culture and authoritative state that support control, oppression and violence against women. \"The government does so by promoting fundamentalist ideas of women as properties of men. It does so by setting up an unequal legal system and not punishing assault even when it has resulted in severe injury or at times even death. The conversation of domestic violence then cannot be simply domestic but begins to take the shape of a systematic violence, fueled by tradition, ignited by religion, encouraged by the dominant authoritarian state, and empowered by poverty and illiteracy.\"\n\nAt the heart of the issue is the belief, rooted in common law, that men are responsible for their household affairs, especially treatment of family members, and should not be subject to intervention by the government. \n\nIranian feminists believe that women's issues must be further investigated since so many women are facing domestic violence in Iran. \"Religious intellectuals have responded by engaging in reluctant analysis of the way the \"woman question\" poses itself in the Iranian context. So far, their analyses fail to take into account the gender implications of the struggle against absolutism and traditional authority. However, the dynamic interaction of the reform project with demands and aspirations of various sectors of Iranian public life will not allow the issue to rest here. Religious intellectuals, in their attempt to recreate essential religious truth in the form of new intellectual concepts and systems, will increasingly have to deal with systemic gender inequalities in a more systematic manner.\" \n\nAlthough the Iranian society is starting to recognize the issues surrounding beating women in Islamic household, many Muslims are reluctant to admit such issues exist. An argument is that hadiths are not the word of God, but rather statements that historical Muslim figures, like Muhammad, made. Iranian women argue that these hadiths could be misinterpreted and therefore should not be taken as orders or truth. A news article in the Washington Post by Pamela K. Taylor admits that \"we must acknowledge that there are problematical verses in the Qur'an and there are certain hadith which must be countered.\"\n\nThere has been some pushback to feminist efforts to reduce domestic violence in Iran by some more conservative elements of Iranian society. For example, the women's Basij leader, Minu Aslani, opposed efforts to fight domestic abuse in Iran, because she felt that it threatened Iran's traditional values. Many people in positions of power hold similar opinions, viewing feminist efforts to achieve gender equality as a threat to Islamic principles.\n\nIn his article \"Domestic Violence against Single and Married Women in Iranian Society \", \"'Azad Moradian'\" quoted a National Coalition Against Domestic Violence statement regarding the nature of domestic violence: \n\nThe prevalence of domestic violence has been cited as a cause of high rates of suicide, mostly through self-immolation, among Kurdish women in Iran.\n\nA World Health Organization (WHO) study in Babol found that within the previous year 15.0% of wives had been physically abused, 42.4% had been sexually abused and 81.5% had been psychologically abused (to various degrees) by their husbands, blaming low income, young age, unemployment and low education.\n\nIn 2004 Dr. Ghazi Tabatabaei, a renowned Iranian sociologist, led a study of domestic violence for a joint project undertaken by the Women's Center for Presidential Advisory, Ministry of Higher Education and The Interior Ministry. Other noted scholars, professionals, psychologists and socialists participated in the study of the capital cities in Iran's 28 provinces that resulted after several years in 32 volumes of results. The findings from questionnaires included the following areas of focus: violence towards women and children, marriages and remarriages, divorce, the effect of education and work on violence and family issues. \n\nThe 32 volume findings are available only to scholars and researchers at the Center for Research in Tehran and have been shared with governmental lawmakers and agencies. The study of Iran, a diverse country of many ethnical and cultural communities, resulted in varied results by province, and particularly different the further that women lived from Tehran, the capital of Iran. This could be attributed to the lack of higher education, economics, and dominance of religion.\n\nFrom the study:\n\nSince about 1994 there have been an overwhelming number of Masters' and PH.D thesis written about women's issues due by women in higher education, including universities in Iran. Because the papers have been unable to result in change or improvements, many universities are now discouraging thesis based upon Iranian women's issues.\n\nMoradian wrote in 2009 that \"Human rights organizations, political/humanitarian oppositional groups and advocacy groups for women were the only voices that acknowledged the existence of this widespread phenomenal in Iran and fought for changes in law and education within communities.\"\n\nRamezan Shojaei Kiyasari, Fatema Alia, members of the Iranian parliament, represented Iran at the \"Regional Seminar for Asian Parliaments\" seminar on 'Preventing and responding to violence against women and girls: From legislation to effective enforcement' held in New Delhi, India in 2011. Mrs. Fatemeh Alia announced that new laws related to violence against women were placed on Iran's parliament agenda.\n\nExisting laws (Iranian Code of Criminal Procedure articles 42, 43, 66) intend to prohibit violence in the form of kidnapping, gender-based harassment, abuse of pregnant women and \"crimes against rights and responsibilities within the family structure,\" but due to cultural and political culture do not protect women, prosecute their abusers and provide services to victims.\n\nLaws to better enforce existing laws and protect women against violence were placed on the agenda before the Iranian parliament the week ending 16 September 2011, focusing on both protection and prevention of violence against women, including focus on human trafficking, better protection and services for abuse victims, rehabilitation (especially concerning domestic abuse) and better processes to manage questioning of female offenders. One of the keys to ultimate success is altering community cultural views regarding the use of violence against women.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56136900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56136900", "title": "EI Leadership Institute", "text": "EI Leadership Institute\n\nThe EI Leadership Institute, formerly known as the Liautaud Institute, is a positive change leadership institute cofounded by investor and business theorist James P. Liautaud. The Institute develops training processes to improve group performance and cohesion.\n\nThe Institute was listed as one of the leading executive education programs by Chief Executive Magazine in 2013. It was also ranked as one of the top five programs for Organizational Development by HR.com's Leadership Excellence And Development (LEAD) in 2016.\n\nJim Liautaud co-founded the Institute in 2006. Working with neuroscientists, psychologists, CEOs and researchers, Liautaud and his colleagues created a training program to quickly build successful intra-company teams. In 2006, the Institute started to catalog the best social habits from high-performing managers. They broke down each practice into a sequence of steps and standardized them so that they could be certified, similar to the way the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) certifies the quality of goods and services.\n\nThe EI Leadership Institute uses an approach called PDT (process-designed teams), applying the principles of Nobel Prize-winning economist Dr. Elinor Ostrom. Their leadership forum program has shown a 23% increase in Emotional intelligence for participating executives over a two-year period.\n\nThe Institute was ranked as one of the top five programs for Organizational Development by HR.com's Leadership Excellence And Development (LEAD) in 2016. Their work has been covered by Time (2014), Inc. (2015), HR.com (2016), The International Leadership Association (2016), Forbes (2017), and in the book Research on Emotions in Organizations (2016).\n"}
{"id": "21442391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21442391", "title": "Effects of long-term benzodiazepine use", "text": "Effects of long-term benzodiazepine use\n\nThe effects of long-term benzodiazepine use include drug dependence and neurotoxicity as well as the possibility of adverse effects on cognitive function, physical health, and mental health. Benzodiazepines are generally effective when used therapeutically in the short term, but even then the risk of dependency can be significantly high. Most of the problems associated with benzodiazepines result from their long-term use. There are significant physical, mental and social risks associated with the long-term use of benzodiazepines. Although anxiety can temporarily increase as a withdrawal symptom, there is evidence that a reduction or withdrawal from benzodiazepines can lead in the long run to a reduction in anxiety symptoms. Due to these increasing physical and mental symptoms from long-term use of benzodiazepines, slowly withdrawing from benzodiazepines is recommended for many long-term users. Not everyone, however, experiences problems with long-term use.\n\nSome of the symptoms that could possibly occur as a result of a withdrawal from benzodiazepines after long-term use include emotional clouding, flu-like symptoms, suicide, nausea, headaches, dizziness, irritability, lethargy, sleep problems, memory impairment, personality changes, aggression, depression, social deterioration as well as employment difficulties, while others never have any side effects from long-term benzodiazepine use. One should never abruptly stop using this medicine and should wean themself down to a lower dose under doctor supervision. While benzodiazepines are highly effective in the short term, adverse effects in some people associated with long-term use including impaired cognitive abilities, memory problems, mood swings, and overdoses when combined with other drugs may make the risk-benefit ratio unfavourable, while others experience no ill effects. In addition, benzodiazepines have reinforcing properties in some individuals and thus are considered to be addictive drugs, especially in individuals that have a \"drug-seeking\" behavior; further, a physical dependence can develop after a few weeks or months of use. Many of these adverse effects of long-term use of benzodiazepines begin to show improvements three to six months after withdrawal.\n\nOther concerns about the effects of long-term benzodiazepine use, in some, include dose escalation, benzodiazepine abuse, tolerance and benzodiazepine dependence and benzodiazepine withdrawal problems. Both physiological tolerance and dependence can lead to a worsening of the adverse effects of benzodiazepines. Increased risk of death has been associated with long-term use of benzodiazepines in several studies; however, other studies have not found increased mortality. Due to conflicting findings in studies regarding benzodiazepines and increased risks of death including from cancer, further research in long-term use of benzodiazepines and mortality risk has been recommended. Most of the research has been conducted in prescribed users of benzodiazepines; but regarding the mortality, its been proven by a study to have an increase in prescribed users in the past decade and a half and 75% of the deaths associated with it happened in the last four years. The long-term use of benzodiazepines is controversial and has generated significant controversy within the medical profession. Views on the nature and severity of problems with long-term use of benzodiazepines differ from expert to expert and even from country to country; some experts even question whether there is any problem with the long-term use of benzodiazepines.\n\nEffects of long-term benzodiazepine use may include disinhibition, impaired concentration and memory, depression, as well as sexual dysfunction. The long-term effects of benzodiazepines may differ from the adverse effects seen after acute administration of benzodiazepines. An analysis of cancer patients found that those who took tranquillisers or sleeping tablets had a substantially poorer quality of life on all measurements conducted, as well as a worse clinical picture of symptomatology. Worsening of symptoms such as fatigue, insomnia, pain, dyspnea and constipation was found when compared against those who did not take tranquillisers or sleeping tablets. Most individuals who successfully discontinue hypnotic therapy after a gradual taper and do not take benzodiazepines for 6 months have less severe sleep and anxiety problems, are less distressed and have a general feeling of improved health at 6-month follow-up. The use of benzodiazepines for the treatment of anxiety has been found to lead to a significant increase in healthcare costs due to accidents and other adverse effects associated with the long-term use of benzodiazepines.\n\nLong-term benzodiazepine use can lead to a generalised impairment of cognition, including sustained attention, verbal learning and memory and psychomotor, visuo-motor and visuo-conceptual abilities. These effects on cognition exist, although their impact on a patient's daily functioning is, in most (but not all cases), insignificant. Transient changes in the brain have been found using neuroimaging studies, but no brain abnormalities have been found in patients treated long term with benzodiazepines. When benzodiazepine users cease long-term benzodiazepine therapy, their cognitive function improves in the first six months, although deficits may be permanent or take longer than six months to return to baseline. In the elderly, long-term benzodiazepine therapy is a risk factor for amplifying cognitive decline, although gradual withdrawal is associated with improved cognitive status. A study of alprazolam found that 8 weeks administration of alprazolam resulted in deficits that were detectable after several weeks but not after 3–5 years.\n\nSleep architecture can be adversely affected by benzodiazepine dependence. Possible adverse effects on sleep include induction or worsening of sleep disordered breathing. Like alcohol, benzodiazepines are commonly used to treat insomnia in the short term (both prescribed and self-medicated), but worsen sleep in the long term. Although benzodiazepines can put people to sleep, while asleep, the drugs disrupt sleep architecture: decreasing sleep time, delaying time to and decreased REM sleep, increasing alpha and beta activity, decreasing K complexes and delta activity, and decreasing deep slow-wave sleep (i.e., NREM stages 3 and 4, the most restorative part of sleep for both energy and mood).\n\nThe long-term use of benzodiazepines may have a similar effect on the brain as alcohol, and are also implicated in depression, anxiety, post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), mania, psychosis, sleep disorders, sexual dysfunction, delirium, and neurocognitive disorders. However a 2016 study found no association between long-term usage and dementia. As with alcohol, the effects of benzodiazepine on neurochemistry, such as decreased levels of serotonin and norepinephrine, are believed to be responsible for their effects on mood and anxiety. Additionally, benzodiazepines can indirectly cause or worsen other psychiatric symptoms (e.g., mood, anxiety, psychosis, irritability) by worsening sleep (i.e., benzodiazepine-induced sleep disorder).\n\nLong-term benzodiazepine use may lead to the creation or exacerbation of physical and mental health conditions, which improve after 6 or more months of abstinence. After a period of about 3 to 6 months of abstinence after completion of a gradual-reduction regimen, marked improvements in mental and physical wellbeing become apparent. For example, one study of hypnotic users gradually withdrawn from their hypnotic medication reported after 6 months of abstinence that they had less severe sleep and anxiety problems, were less distressed, and had a general feeling of improved health. Those having remained on hypnotic medication had no improvements in their insomnia, anxiety, or general health ratings. A study found that individuals having withdrawn from benzodiazepines showed a marked reduction in use of medical and mental health services.\n\nApproximately half of patients attending mental health services for conditions including anxiety disorders such as panic disorder or social phobia may be the result of alcohol or benzodiazepine dependence. Sometimes anxiety disorders precede alcohol or benzodiazepine dependence but the alcohol or benzodiazepine dependence often acts to keep the anxiety disorders going and often progressively makes them worse. Many people who are addicted to alcohol or prescribed benzodiazepines decide to quit when it is explained to them they have a choice between ongoing ill mental health or quitting and recovering from their symptoms. It was noted that because every individual has an individual sensitivity level to alcohol or sedative hypnotic drugs, what one person can tolerate without ill health will cause another to suffer very ill health, and that even moderate drinking in sensitive individuals can cause rebound anxiety syndromes and sleep disorders. A person who is suffering the toxic effects of alcohol or benzodiazepines will not benefit from other therapies or medications as they do not address the root cause of the symptoms. Recovery from benzodiazepine dependence tends to take a lot longer than recovery from alcohol but people can regain their previous good health. A review of the literature regarding benzodiazepine hypnotic drugs concluded that these drugs cause an unjustifiable risk to the individual and to public health. The risks include dependence, accidents and other adverse effects. Gradual discontinuation of hypnotics leads to improved health without worsening of sleep.\n\nDaily users of benzodiazepines are also at a higher risk of experiencing psychotic symptomatology such as delusions and hallucinations. A study found that of 42 patients treated with alprazolam, up to a third of long-term users of the benzodiazepine drug alprazolam (Xanax) develop depression. Studies have shown that long-term use of benzodiazepines and the benzodiazepine receptor agonist nonbenzodiazepine Z drugs are associated with causing depression as well as a markedly raised suicide risk and an overall increased mortality risk.\n\nA study of 50 patients who attended a benzodiazepine withdrawal clinic found that long-term use of benzodiazepines causes a wide range of psychological and physiological disorders. It was found that, after several years of chronic benzodiazepine use, a large portion of patients developed various mental and physical health problems including agoraphobia, irritable bowel syndrome, paraesthesiae, increasing anxiety, and panic attacks, which were not preexisting. The mental health and physical health symptoms induced by long-term benzodiazepine use gradually improved significantly over a period of a year following completion of a slow withdrawal. Three of the 50 patients had wrongly been given a preliminary diagnosis of multiple sclerosis when the symptoms were actually due to chronic benzodiazepine use. Ten of the patients had taken drug overdoses whilst on benzodiazepines, despite the fact that only two of the patients had any prior history of depressive symptomatology. After withdrawal, no patients took any further overdoses after 1 year post-withdrawal. The cause of the deteriorating mental and physical health in a significant proportion of patients was hypothesised to be caused by increasing tolerance where withdrawal-type symptoms emerged, despite the administration of stable prescribed doses. Another theory is that chronic benzodiazepine use causes subtle increasing toxicity, which in turn leads to increasing psychopathology in long-term users of benzodiazepines.\n\nLong-term use of benzodiazepines can induce perceptual disturbances and depersonalisation in some people, even in those taking a stable daily dosage, and it can also become a protracted withdrawal feature of the benzodiazepine withdrawal syndrome.\n\nIn addition, chronic use of benzodiazepines is a risk factor for blepharospasm. Drug-induced symptoms that resemble withdrawal-like effects can occur on a set dosage as a result of prolonged use, also documented with barbiturate-like substances, as well as alcohol and benzodiazepines. This demonstrates that the effects from chronic use of benzodiazepine drugs is not unique but occurs with other GABAergic sedative hypnotic drugs, i.e., alcohol and barbiturates.\n\nChronic use of benzodiazepines seemed to cause significant immunological disorders in a study of selected outpatients attending a psychopharmacology department. Diazepam and clonazepam have been found to have long-lasting, but not permanent, immunotoxic effects in the fetus of pregnant rats. However, single very high doses of diazepam have been found to cause lifelong immunosuppression in neonatal rats. No studies have been done to assess the immunotoxic effects of diazepam in humans; however, high prescribed doses of diazepam, in humans, has been found to be a major risk of pneumonia, based on a study of people with tetanus. It has been proposed that diazepam may cause long-lasting changes to the GABA receptors with resultant long-lasting disturbances to behaviour, endocrine function and immune function.\n\nUse of prescribed benzodiazepines is associated with an increased rate of attempted and completed suicide. The prosuicidal effects of benzodiazepines are suspected to be due to a psychiatric disturbance caused by side effects or withdrawal symptoms. Because benzodiazepines in general may be associated with increased suicide risk, care should be taken when prescribing, especially to at-risk patients. Depressed adolescents who were taking benzodiazepines were found to have a greatly increased risk of self-harm or suicide, although the sample size was small. The effects of benzodiazepines in individuals under the age of 18 requires further research. Additional caution is required in using benzodiazepines in depressed adolescents. Benzodiazepine dependence often results in an increasingly deteriorating clinical picture, which includes social deterioration leading to comorbid alcoholism and drug abuse. Benzodiazepine misuse or misuse of other CNS depressants increases the risk of suicide in drug misusers. Benzodiazepine has several risks based on its biochemical function and symptoms associated with this medication like exacerbation of sleep apnea, sedation, suppression of self-care functions, amnesia and disinhibition are suggested as a possible explanation to the increase in mortality. Studies also demonstrate that an increased mortality associated with benzodiazepine use has been clearly documented among ‘drug misusers’.\n\nThere has been some controversy around the possible link between benzodiazepine use and development of cancer; early cohort studies in the 1980s suggested a possible link, but follow-up case-control studies have found no link between benzodiazepines and cancer. In the second U.S. national cancer study in 1982, the American Cancer Society conducted a survey of over 1.1 million participants. A marked increased risk of cancer was found in the users of sleeping pills, mainly benzodiazepines. There have been 15 epidemiologic studies that have suggested that benzodiazepine or nonbenzodiazepine hypnotic drug use is associated with increased mortality, mainly due to increased cancer deaths in humans. The cancers included cancer of the brain, lung, bowel, breast, and bladder, and other neoplasms. It has been hypothesised that either depressed immune function or the viral infections themselves were the cause of the increased rates of cancer. While initially U.S. Food and Drug Administration reviewers expressed concerns about approving the nonbenzodiazepine Z drugs due to concerns of cancer, ultimately they changed their minds and approved the drugs. A recent case-control study, however, found no link between use of benzodiazepines and cancers of the breast, lung, large bowel, lung, uterine lining, ovaries, testes, thyroid, liver, or Hodgkin's Disease, melanoma, or non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. More specific case-control studies since 2000 have shown no link between benzodiazepine use and breast cancer. One study found an association between self-reported benzodiazepine use and development of ovarian cancer, whereas another study found no relationship. A 2016 meta-analysis of multiple observational studies found that benzodiazepine use is associated with increased cancer risk.\n\nIn a study in 1980 in a group of 55 consecutively admitted patients having abused exclusively sedatives or hypnotics, neuropsychological performance was significantly lower and signs of intellectual impairment significantly more often diagnosed than in a matched control group taken from the general population. These results suggested a relationship between abuse of sedatives or hypnotics and cerebral disorder.\n\nA publication has asked in 1981 if lorazepam is more toxic than diazepam.\n\nIn a study in 1984, 20 patients having taken long-term benzodiazepines were submitted to brain CT scan examinations. Some scans appeared abnormal. The mean ventricular-brain ratio measured by planimetry was increased over mean values in an age- and sex-matched group of control subjects but was less than that in a group of alcoholics. There was no significant relationship between CT scan appearances and the duration of benzodiazepine therapy. The clinical significance of the findings was unclear.\n\nIn 1986, it was presumed that permanent brain damage may result from chronic use of benzodiazepines similar to alcohol-related brain damage.\n\nIn 1987, 17 high-dose inpatient abusers of benzodiazepines have anecdotally shown enlarged cerebrospinal fluid spaces with associated brain shrinkage.\nBrain shrinkage reportedly appeared to be dose dependent with low-dose users having less brain shrinkage than higher-dose users.\n\nHowever, a CT study in 1987 found no evidence of brain shrinkage in prescribed benzodiazepine users.\n\nIn 1989, in a 4- to 6-year follow-up study of 30 inpatient benzodiazepine abusers, Neuropsychological function was found to be permanently affected in some chronic high-dose abusers of benzodiazepines. Brain damage similar to alcoholic brain damage was observed. The CT scan abnormalities showed dilatation of the ventricular system. However, unlike alcoholics, sedative hypnotic abusers showed no evidence of widened cortical sulci. The study concluded that, when cerebral disorder is diagnosed in sedative hypnotic benzodiazepine abusers, it is often permanent.\n\nA CT study in 1993 investigated brain damage in benzodiazepine users and found no overall differences to a healthy control group.\n\nA study in 2000 found that long-term benzodiazepine therapy does not result in brain abnormalities.\n\nWithdrawal from high-dose abuse of nitrazepam anecdotally was alleged in 2001 to have caused severe shock of the whole brain with diffuse slow activity on EEG in one patient after 25 years of abuse. After withdrawal, abnormalities in hypofrontal brain wave patterns persisted beyond the withdrawal syndrome, which suggested to the authors that organic brain damage occurred from chronic high-dose abuse of nitrazepam.\n\nProfessor Heather Ashton, a leading expert on benzodiazepines from Newcastle University Institute of Neuroscience, has stated that there is no structural damage from benzodiazepines, and advocates for further research into long-lasting or possibly permanent symptoms of long-term use of benzodiazepines as of 1996. She has stated that she believes that the most likely explanation for lasting symptoms is persisting but slowly resolving functional changes at the GABA benzodiazepine receptor level. Newer and more detailed brain scanning technologies such as PET scans and MRI scans had as of 2002 to her knowledge never been used to investigate the question of whether benzodiazepines cause functional or structural brain damage.\n\nIn 2014 studies have found an association between the use of benzodiazepines and an increased risk of dementia but the exact nature of the relationship is still a matter of debate. A later study found no such effects.\n\nBenzodiazepines when introduced in 1961 were widely believed to be safe drugs but as the decades went by increased awareness of adverse effects connected to their long-term use became known. There was initially widespread public approval but this was followed by widespread public disapproval, and recommendations for more restrictive medical guidelines followed. Concerns regarding the long-term effects of benzodiazepines have been raised since 1980. These concerns are still not fully answered. A review in 2006 of the literature on use of benzodiazepine and nonbenzodiazepine hypnotics concluded that more research is needed to evaluate the long-term effects of hypnotic drugs. The majority of the problems of benzodiazepines are related to their long-term use rather than their short-term use. There is growing evidence of the harm of long-term use of benzodiazepines, especially at higher doses. In 2007, the Department of Health recommended that individuals on long-term benzodiazepines be monitored at least every 3 months and also recommended against long-term substitution therapy in benzodiazepine drug misusers due to a lack of evidence base for effectiveness and due to the risks of long-term use. The long-term effects of benzodiazepines are very similar to the long-term effects of alcohol (apart from organ toxicity) and other sedative-hypnotics. Withdrawal effects and dependence are almost identical. A report in 1987 by the Royal College of Psychiatrists in Great Britain reported that any benefits of long-term use of benzodiazepines are likely to be far outweighed by the risks of long-term use. Despite this benzodiazepines are still widely prescribed. The socioeconomic costs of the continued widespread prescribing of benzodiazepines is high.\n\nIn 1980, the Medical Research Council (United Kingdom) recommended that research be conducted into the effects of long-term use of benzodiazepines A 2009 British Government parliamentary inquiry recommended that research into the long-term effects of benzodiazepines must be carried out. The view of the Department of Health is that they have made every effort to make doctors aware of the problems associated with the long-term use of benzodiazepines, as well as the dangers of benzodiazepine drug addiction.\n\nIn 1980, the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency's Committee on the Safety of Medicines issued guidance restricting the use of benzodiazepines to short-term use and updated and strengthened these warnings in 1988. When asked by Phil Woolas in 1999 whether the Department of Health had any plans to conduct research into the long-term effects of benzodiazepines, the Department replied, saying they have no plans to do so, as benzodiazepines are already restricted to short-term use and monitored by regulatory bodies. In a House of Commons debate, Phil Woolas has claimed that there has been a cover-up with regard to the problems associated with benzodiazepines because they are of too large of a scale for governments, regulatory bodies, and the pharmaceutical industry to deal with. John Hutton stated in response that the Department of Health take the problems of benzodiazepines extremely seriously and are not sweeping the issue under the carpet. In 2010, the All-Party Parliamentary Group on Involuntary Tranquilliser Addiction filed a complaint with the Equality and Human Rights Commission under the Disability Discrimination Act 1995 against the Department of Health and the Department for Work and Pensions alleging discrimation against people with a benzodiazepine prescription drug dependence as a result of denial of specialised treatment services, exclusion from medical treatment, non-recognition of the protracted benzodiazepine withdrawal syndrome, as well as denial of rehabilitation and back-to-work schemes. Additionally the APPGITA complaint alleged that there is a \"virtual prohibition\" on the collection of statistical information on benzodiazepines across government departments, whereas with other controlled drugs there are enormous volumes of statistical data. The complaint alleged that the discrimination is deliberate, large scale and that government departments are aware of what they are doing.\n\nThe Medical Research Council (UK) held a closed meeting among top UK medical doctors and representatives from the pharmaceutical industry between the dates of 30 October 1980 and 3 April 1981. The meeting was classified under the Public Records Act 1958 until 2014 but became available in 2005 as a result of the Freedom of Information Act. The meeting was called due to concerns that 10–100,000 people could be dependent; meeting chairman Professor Malcolm Lader later revised this estimate to include approximately half a million members of the British public suspected of being dependent on therapeutic dose levels of benzodiazepines, with about half of those on long-term benzodiazepines. It was reported that benzodiazepines may be the third- or fourth-largest drug problem in the UK (the largest being alcohol and tobacco). The Chairman of the meeting followed up after the meeting with additional information, which was forwarded to the Medical Research Council neuroscience board, raising concerns regarding tests that showed definite cortical atrophy in 2 of 14 individuals tested and borderline abnormality in five others. He felt that, due to the methodology used in assessing the scans, the abnormalities were likely an underestimate, and more refined techniques would be more accurate. Also discussed were findings that tolerance to benzodiazepines can be demonstrated by injecting diazepam into long-term users; in normal subjects, increases in growth hormone occurs, whereas in benzodiazepine-tolerant individuals this effect is blunted. Also raised were findings in animal studies that showed the development of tolerance in the form of a 15 percent reduction in binding capacity of benzodiazepines after seven days administration of high doses of the partial agonist benzodiazepine drug flurazepam and a 50 percent reduction in binding capacity after 30 days of a low dose of diazepam. The Chairman was concerned that papers soon to be published would \"stir the whole matter up\" and wanted to be able to say that the Medical Research Council \"had matters under consideration if questions were asked in parliament\". The Chairman felt that it \"was very important, politically that the MRC should be 'one step ahead'\" and recommended epidemiological studies be funded and carried out by Roche Pharmaceuticals and MRC sponsored research conducted into the biochemical effects of long-term use of benzodiazepines. The meeting aimed to identify issues that were likely to arise, alert the Department of Health to the scale of the problem and identify the pharmacology and nature of benzodiazepine dependence and the volume of benzodiazepines being prescribed. The World Health Organization was also interested in the problem and it was felt the meeting would demonstrate to the WHO that the MRC was taking the issue seriously. Among the psychological effects of long-term use of benzodiazepines discussed was a reduced ability to cope with stress. The Chairman stated that the \"withdrawal symptoms from valium were much worse than many other drugs including, e.g., heroin\". It was stated that the likelihood of withdrawing from benzodiazepines was \"reduced enormously\" if benzodiazepines were prescribed for longer than four months. It was concluded that benzodiazepines are often prescribed inappropriately, for a wide range of conditions and situations. Dr Mason (DHSS) and Dr Moir (SHHD) felt that, due to the large numbers of people using benzodiazepines for long periods of time, it was important to determine the effectiveness and toxicity of benzodiazepines before deciding what regulatory action to take.\n\nControversy resulted in 2010 when the previously secret files came to light over the fact that the Medical Research Council was warned that benzodiazepines prescribed to millions of patients appeared to cause brain shrinkage similar to alcohol abuse in some patients and failed to carry out larger and more rigorous studies. \"The Independent on Sunday\" reported allegations that \"scores\" of the 1.5 million members of the UK public who use benzodiazepines long-term have symptoms that are consistent with brain damage. It has been described as a \"huge scandal\" by Jim Dobbin, and legal experts and MPs have predicted a class action lawsuit. A solicitor said she was aware of the past failed litigation against the drug companies and the relevance the documents had to that court case and said it was strange that the documents were kept 'hidden' by the MRC.\n\nProfessor Lader, who chaired the MRC meeting, declined to speculate as to why the MRC declined to support his request to set up a unit to further research benzodiazepines and why they did not set up a special safety committee to look into these concerns. Professor Lader stated that he regrets not being more proactive on pursuing the issue, stating that he did not want to be labeled as the guy who pushed only issues with benzos. Professor Ashton also submitted proposals for grant-funded research using MRI, EEG, and cognitive testing in a randomized controlled trial to assess whether benzodiazepines cause permanent damage to the brain, but similarly to Professor Lader was turned down by the MRC.\n\nThe MRC spokesperson said they accept the conclusions of Professor Lader's research and said that they fund only research that meets required quality standards of scientific research, and stated that they were and continue to remain receptive to applications for research in this area. No explanation was reported for why the documents were sealed by the Public Records Act.\n\nJim Dobbin, who chairs the All-Party Parliamentary Group for Involuntary Tranquilliser Addiction, stated that:\nThe legal director of Action Against Medical Accidents said urgent research must be carried out and said that, if the results of larger studies confirm Professor Lader's research, the government and MRC could be faced with one of the biggest group actions for damages the courts have ever seen, given the large number of people potentially affected. People who report enduring symptoms post-withdrawal such as neurological pain, headaches, cognitive impairment, and memory loss have been left in the dark as to whether these symptoms are drug-induced damage or not due to the MRC's inaction, it was reported. Professor Lader reported that the results of his research did not surprise his research group given that it was already known that alcohol could cause permanent brain changes.\n\nBenzodiazepines have a unique history in that they were responsible for the largest-ever class-action lawsuit against drug manufacturers in the United Kingdom, in the 1980s and early 1990s, involving 14,000 patients and 1,800 law firms that alleged the manufacturers knew of the dependence potential but intentionally withheld this information from doctors. At the same time, 117 general practitioners and 50 health authorities were sued by patients to recover damages for the harmful effects of dependence and withdrawal. This led some doctors to require a signed consent form from their patients and to recommend that all patients be adequately warned of the risks of dependence and withdrawal before starting treatment with benzodiazepines. The court case against the drug manufacturers never reached a verdict; legal aid had been withdrawn, leading to the collapse of the trial, and there were allegations that the consultant psychiatrists, the expert witnesses, had a conflict of interest. This litigation led to changes in the British law, making class-action lawsuits more difficult.\n\nBenzodiazepines have been found to cause teratogenic malformations. The literature concerning the safety of benzodiazepines in pregnancy is unclear and controversial. Initial concerns regarding benzodiazepines in pregnancy began with alarming findings in animals but these do not necessarily cross over to humans. Conflicting findings have been found in babies exposed to benzodiazepines. A recent analysis of the Swedish Medical Birth Register found an association with preterm births, low birth weight and a moderate increased risk for congental malformations. An increase in pylorostenosis or alimentary tract atresia was seen. An increase in orofacial clefts was not demonstrated, however, and it was concluded that benzodiazepines are not major teratogens.\n\nNeurodevelopmental disorders and clinical symptoms are commonly found in babies exposed to benzodiazepines in utero. Benzodiazepine-exposed babies have a low birth weight but catch up to normal babies at an early age, but smaller head circumferences found in benzo babies persists. Other adverse effects of benzodiazepines taken during pregnancy are deviating neurodevelopmental and clinical symptoms including craniofacial anomalies, delayed development of pincer grasp, deviations in muscle tone and pattern of movements. Motor impairments in the babies are impeded for up to 1 year after birth. Gross motor development impairments take 18 months to return to normal but fine motor function impairments persist. In addition to the smaller head circumference found in benzodiazepine-exposed babies mental retardation, functional deficits, long-lasting behavioural anomalies, and lower intelligence occurs.\n\nBenzodiazepines, like many other sedative hypnotic drugs, cause apoptotic neuronal cell death. However, benzodiazepines do not cause as severe apoptosis to the developing brain as alcohol does. The prenatal toxicity of benzodiazepines is most likely due to their effects on neurotransmitter systems, cell membranes and protein synthesis. This, however, is complicated in that neuropsychological or neuropsychiatric effects of benzodiazepines, if they occur, may not become apparent until later childhood or even adolescence. A review of the literature found data on long-term follow-up regarding neurobehavioural outcomes is very limited. However, a study was conducted that followed up 550 benzodiazepine-exposed children, which found that, overall, most children developed normally. There was a smaller subset of benzodiazepine-exposed children who were slower to develop, but by four years of age most of this subgroup of children had normalised. There was a small number of benzodiazepine-exposed children who had continuing developmental abnormalities at 4-year follow-up, but it was not possible to conclude whether these deficits were the result of benzodiazepines or whether social and environmental factors explained the continuing deficits.\n\nConcerns regarding whether benzodiazepines during pregnancy cause major malformations, in particular cleft palate, have been hotly debated in the literature. A meta analysis of the data from cohort studies found no link but meta analysis of case–control studies did find a significant increase in major malformations. (However, the cohort studies were homogenous and the case–control studies were heterogeneous, thus reducing the strength of the case–control results). There have also been several reports that suggest that benzodiazepines have the potential to cause a syndrome similar to fetal alcohol syndrome, but this has been disputed by a number of studies. As a result of conflicting findings, use of benzodiazepines during pregnancy is controversial. The best available evidence suggests that benzodiazepines are not a major cause of birth defects, i.e. major malformations or cleft lip or cleft palate.\n\nSignificant toxicity from benzodiazepines can occur in the elderly as a result of long-term use. Benzodiazepines, along with antihypertensives and drugs affecting the cholinergic system, are the most common cause of drug-induced dementia affecting over 10 percent of patients attending memory clinics. Long-term use of benzodiazepines in the elderly can lead to a pharmacological syndrome with symptoms including drowsiness, ataxia, fatigue, confusion, weakness, dizziness, vertigo, syncope, reversible dementia, depression, impairment of intellect, psychomotor and sexual dysfunction, agitation, auditory and visual hallucinations, paranoid ideation, panic, delirium, depersonalisation, sleepwalking, aggressivity, orthostatic hypotension and insomnia. Depletion of certain neurotransmitters and cortisol levels and alterations in immune function and biological markers can also occur. Elderly individuals who have been long-term users of benzodiazepines have been found to have a higher incidence of post-operative confusion. Benzodiazepines have been associated with increased body sway in the elderly, which can potentially lead to fatal accidents including falls. Discontinuation of benzodiazepines leads to improvement in the balance of the body and also leads to improvements in cognitive functions in the elderly benzodiazepine hypnotic users without worsening of insomnia.\n\nA review of the evidence has found that whilst long-term use of benzodiazepines impairs memory, its association with causing dementia is not clear and requires further research. A more recent study found that benzodiazepines are associated with an increased risk of dementia and it is recommended that benzodiazepines be avoided in the elderly. A later study, however, found no increase in dementia associated with long-term usage of benzodiazepine.\n\n"}
{"id": "447776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=447776", "title": "Half-caste", "text": "Half-caste\n\nHalf-caste is a term for a category of people of mixed race or ethnicity. It is derived from the term \"caste\", which comes from the Latin \"castus\", meaning pure, and the derivative Portuguese and Spanish \"casta\", meaning race. It can sometimes be used or seen as an offensive term (particularly in New Zealand and the Pacific Islands and parts of Asia), but this is not universal.\n\nThe terms \"half-caste\", \"caste\", \"quarter-caste\", \"mix-breed\" etc. were widely used by ethnographers in British colonies to try to classify natives. In Latin America, the equivalent term for half-castes was \"Cholo\" and \"Zambo\".\n\nIn Australia, the term \"half-caste\" was widely used in the 19th- and early-20th-century British commonwealth laws to refer to the offspring of white colonists and the Aboriginal natives of the continent. For example, the Aborigines Protection Act of 1886 mentioned half-castes habitually associating with or living with an Aboriginal, while the Aborigines Amendments between 1934 and 1937 refer to it in various terms, including as a person with less than quadroon blood. Later literature, such as by Tindale, refers to it in terms of half, quadroon, octoroon, and other hybrids.\n\nThe term \"half-caste\" was not merely a term of legal convenience. It became a term of common cultural discourse and appeared even in religious records. For example, John Harper notes, from records of Woolmington Christian mission, that half-castes and anyone with any aborigine connection were considered \"degraded as to divine things, almost on a level with a brute, in a state of moral unfitness for heaven\".\n\nThe term was immortalized in the Half-Caste Act in which the Australian government could seize such children and forcibly remove them from their parents, theoretically to provide them with better homes than those afforded by typical Aborigines, where they could grow up to work as domestic servants and for social engineering. The removed children are known as Stolen Generations. Other British commonwealth Acts on half-castes and Aborigines enacted between 1909 and 1943 were also, in theory, called Welfare Acts, in statutes passed deprived these people of basic civil, political, and economic rights and made it illegal to enter public places such as pubs and government institutions, marry, or meet relatives.\n\nThe term \"half-caste\" to classify people based on their birth and ancestry became popular in New Zealand from the early 19th century. Terms such as \"Anglo-New Zealander\" suggested by John Polack in 1838, \"Utu Pihikete\" and \"Huipaiana\" were alternatively but less used.\n\nIn Burma, a half-caste (or \"Kabya\") was anyone with mixed ethnicity from Burmese and British, or Burmese and Indian. During the British colonial rule, half-caste people were ostracized and criticized in literary and political media. For example, a local publication in 1938 published the following:\n\nSimilarly, Pu Gale in 1939 wrote \"Kabya Pyatthana\" (literally: The Half-Caste Problem), censured Burmese women for enabling half-caste phenomenon, with the claim, \"a Burmese woman’s degenerative intercourse with an Indian threatened a spiraling destruction of Burmese society.\" Such criticism was not limited to a few isolated instances, or just against Burmese girls (\"thet khit thami\"), Indians and British husbands. Starting in early 1930s through 1950s, there was an explosion of publications, newspaper articles and cartoons with such social censorship. Included in the criticism were Chinese-Burmese half-castes.\n\nPrior to the explosion in censorship of half-castes in early-20th-century Burma, Thant claims inter-cultural couples such as Burmese-Indian marriages were encouraged by the local population. The situation began to change as colonial developments, allocation of land, rice mills and socio-economic privileges were given to European colonial officials and to Indians brought in Burma by the British with economic incentives. In the late 19th century, the British colonial administration viewed intermarriage as a socio-cultural problem. The colonial administration issued circulars prohibiting European officials from conjugal liaisons with indigenous women. In Burma, as in other colonies in Southeast Asia, intimate relations between colonized women and colonizing men, and the half-caste progeny of such unions were considered harmful to white minority rule founded upon carefully maintained racial hierarchies.\n\n\"Half-caste\" in Malaysia referred to Eurasians and other people of mixed descents. They were also commonly referred to as hybrids, and in certain sociological literature the term hybridity is common.\n\nWith Malaysia experiencing a wave of immigrations from China, the Middle East, India, and southeast Asia, and a wave of different colonial powers (Portuguese, Dutch, English), many other terms have been used for half-castes. Some of these include \"cap-ceng\", \"half-breed\", \"mesticos\". These terms are considered pejorative.\n\nHalf-castes of Malaya and other British colonies in Asia have been part of non-fiction and fictional works. Brigitte Glaser notes that the half-caste characters in literary works of the 18th through 20th century were predominantly structured with prejudice, as degenerate, low, inferior, deviant or barbaric. Ashcroft in his review considers the literary work structure as consistent with morals and values of colonial era where the colonial powers considered people from different ethnic groups as unequal by birth in their abilities, character and potential, where laws were enacted that made sexual relations and marriage between ethnic groups as illegal.\n\nFijian people of mixed descent were called half-caste, \"kailoma\" or \"vasu\". This started with British colonialism, and over time developed into a race conscious, segregated system of society. The colonial government viewed this as a “race problem.” It created a privileged underclass of semi-Europeans who lived on the social fringes in the colonial ordering of Fiji. This legacy continues to affect the ethnic and racial discourse in Fiji.\n\n\"Kailomas\" or \"vasus\" were children born to a Fijian native and European or indentured laborers brought in by the colonial government to work on sugarcane plantations over a century ago. Over the generations, these half-caste people experienced a harsh, shunned and a bizarre social treatment from the colonial obsession with herding citizens into separate, tidy, racial boxes, which led to the separation of Fijian mixed-bloods from their natural families.\n\nSociological literature on South Africa, in pre-British, British colonial and Apartheid era refers to half-caste as anyone born from admixing of White and people of color. An alternate, less common term, for half-caste was \"Mestizzo\" (conceptually similar to Mestizo in Latin American colonies).\n\n\"Griqua\" (Afrikaans: \"Griekwa\") is another term for half-caste people from intermixing in South Africa and Namibia.\n\nPeople of mixed descent, the half-caste, were considered inferior and slaves by birth in the 19th-century hierarchically arranged, closed colonial social stratification system of South Africa. This was the case even if the father or mother of half-caste person was a European.\n\nBritish Central Africa, now part Malawi and part Zimbabwe, referred to people of mixed descent as half-castes. These unions were considered improper, mixed couples segregated and shunned, and the colonial courts ruled against mixed marriages.\n\nIn today's United Kingdom, the term primarily applies to those of mixed Black and White parentage, but such was not always the case. In just about any area that fell under the crown's dominion, the term was made use of, and anyone of mixed Caucasian and conquered races could be properly described as being half-caste.\n\nIn the UK the term \"half-caste\" is generally considered more offensive than mixed-race because it implies being ‘half pure’ (the connotation being that the white half is the pure half). The term denies the mixed race person a section of their heritage by reducing them to half of a race. \n\nRuth Landes notes that half-castes born in Britain of colonial fathers felt rootless in the society in which they lived.\n\nSociologist Peter J. Aspinall argues that the term's origins lie in 19th-century British colonial administrations, with it evolving into a descriptor of people of mixed race or ethnicity, \"usually encompassing 'White'\", in the 20th century. From the 1920s to 1960s, he argues it was \"used in Britain as a derogatory racial category associated with the moral condemnation of 'miscegenation'\".\n\nUse of the term half-caste is considered offensive today. The National Union of Journalists ratified guidelines for race reporting instructs journalists to 'avoid words that, although common in the past, are now considered offensive, e.g. half-caste and coloured. Ask people how they define themselves. Check if a person identifies as mixed-race or Black'. NHS Editorial guidance states documents should 'Avoid offensive and stereotyping words such as coloured, half-caste and so forth'.\n\nWhile the term \"half-caste\" tends to evoke the understanding of it referring to the offspring of two persons of two different pure bloods or near pure bloods, in other languages, such as Mandarin Chinese, the words \"half-caste\" and \"mixed ethnicity\" or \"multi-ethnic\" are the same word, \"hun-xue\" (混血).\n\nThe term \"half-caste\" was common in British colonies, however not exclusive. Other colonial governments such as Spain devised terms for the mixed-race children. The Spanish colonies devised a complex system of castas, consisting of Mulattoes, Mestizos, and many others. The French colonies used terms such as Métis, while the Portuguese used the term \"Mestiço\". French colonies in the Caribbean referred to half-caste people as \"Chabine\" (female) and \"Chabin\" (male). Before the American Civil War, the term \"mestee\" was common for certain people of mixed descent.\n\nOther terms in use in colonial era for half-castes included - creole, casco, cafuso, caburet, cattalo, citrange, griffe, half blood, half-bred, half-breed, high yellow, hinny, hybrid, ladino, liger, mamaluco, mixblood, mixed-blood, mongrel, mule, mustee, octoroon, plumcot, quadroon, quintroon, sambo, tangelo, xibaro. The difference between these terms of various European colonies usually was the race, ethnicity or caste of the father and the mother.\n\nAnn Laura Stoler has published a series of reviews of half-caste people and ethnic intermixing during the colonial era of human history. She states that colonial control was predicated on identifying who was white and who was native, which children could become citizens of the empire while who remained the subjects of the empire, who had hereditary rights of a progeny and who did not. This was debated by colonial administrators, then triggered regulations by the authorities. At the start of colonial empires, mostly males from Europe and then males of indentured laborers from India, China and southeast Asia went on these distant trips; in these early times, intermixing was accepted, approved and encouraged. Over time, differences were emphasized, and the colonial authorities proceeded to restrict, then disapprove and finally forbid sexual relationships between groups of people to maintain so-called purity of blood and limit inheritable rights.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1875159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875159", "title": "Harry Gold", "text": "Harry Gold\n\nHarry Gold (December 11, 1910 – August 28, 1972) was a laboratory chemist and spy for a number of Soviet spy rings operating in the United States during the Manhattan Project.\n\nHarry Gold was born on December 11, 1910, in Bern, Switzerland to Samson and Celia Gold. When he was 4, his family immigrated to the United States. During that process, the family’s surname was changed from Golodnitsky to Gold. The Golds lived in Chicago for a year before moving, Samson going to Virginia and Celia taking Harry to Philadelphia. Soon, Samson moved to Philadelphia as well, and took up a job as a cabinetmaker at the Victor Talking Machine Company in Camden, New Jersey. In 1917, Gold’s mother gave birth to another son, and the family was described by many as quiet and stand-offish. Gold later described his childhood as happy and secure, and his intellectual appetite was insatiable. However, the injustices that both Gold and the members of his family faced due to their race and status left Gold with a tremendous resentment and an overwhelming desire to fight prejudice. Unfortunately, during these formative years in which he developed many insecurities, Gold developed an almost puppy-like eagerness to please, and would “literally do anything for his friends”. He developed a pronounced interest in chemistry and graduated from South Philadelphia High School in 1929.\n\nAfter his high school graduation, Gold was offered a job by one of his father’s acquaintances at Giftcrafters, a woodworking firm in the Kensington section of the city. He did not want the life that his father lived, with the hard physical labor and blatant anti-Semitism that came along with it. While looking for new job opportunities, Gold applied for the Pennsylvania Sugar Company on the banks of the Delaware River, with the economic security and the exposure to college-educated chemists and state of the art labs were the most important qualities of this position. He saved enough money to attend the University of Pennsylvania and left the company. However, towards the beginning of Gold’s sophomore year, the Great Depression began across America, and due to his family’s continuing financial struggles, Gold voluntarily withdrew himself from university and managed to regain a job at the Pennsylvania Sugar Company, now the sole breadwinner for his family.\n\nGold had expressed interest in the Socialist Party early in life, but by the Great Depression, he considered politics a luxury that he had little time for. However, Gold appeared to exhibit revulsion and incredulity when confronted with the Communist Party. Ten days before the Christmas of 1932, Gold was laid off by the sugar company. Both Harry and his father, Sam, looked for work each morning, always coming back with the same depressing results. With both of the primary breadwinners out of work, the Gold family was staring economic ruin in the face. Gold was offered a job by Tom Black, a former classmate, at the Holbrook Manufacturing Company in New Jersey who could arrange for Gold to take his place. Black immediately struck up a friendship with Gold, and began to insistently try to recruit him to the Communist Party. Due to his eager to please nature and the immense gratitude to Black for the friendship and funds he provided, Gold relented. He was in no way impressed, and continued to hold his views against the Party. When Gold found that the Pennsylvania Sugar Company was hiring at the same salary that he was currently getting paid, he immediately decided to move back to Philadelphia to the company and his family. Black, however, did not relent, coming to visit Gold and his family, all the while encouraging him to attend meetings and join. During this time, Gold managed to attend Drexel Institute of Technology, where he took night courses in chemistry. \nIn 1940, Jacob Golos activated Harry Gold for Soviet espionage, but he was not a recruited agent of the rezidentura. This changed in the late 1940s, when Soviet Case Officer Semyon Semenov appropriated Gold from Golos. Gold became a formally recruited Soviet agent at this time, and was assigned the codename GUS, GOS, or GOOSE. Semenov remained Gold's control officer until March 1944.\n\nIn 1950, Klaus Fuchs was arrested in England and charged with espionage. Fuchs confessed that while working in the United States during World War II he had passed information about the atom bomb to the Soviet Union. Fuchs denied working with other spies, except for a courier who collected information from him. When initially shown photographs of suspects, including Gold, he failed to identify him as the courier, but did so after subsequent prompting.\n\nUnder interrogation, Gold admitted that he had been involved in espionage since 1934 and had helped Fuchs pass information about the Manhattan Project to the Soviet Union by way of Soviet General Consul Anatoli Yakovlev. Gold's confession led to the arrest of David Greenglass. His testimony resulted in the arrest, trial, and execution of Julius and Ethel Rosenberg.\n\nIn 1951, Gold was sentenced to 30 years imprisonment. In May 1965, he was paroled after serving just under half of his sentence. In 1972, he died in Philadelphia, age 62; he was interred in Har Nebo Cemetery in Philadelphia County, Pennsylvania.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4505062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4505062", "title": "Harvard Model Congress", "text": "Harvard Model Congress\n\nHarvard Model Congress (HMC) is the largest congressional simulation conference in the world, providing high school students from across the United States and abroad with an opportunity to experience American government firsthand. Although HMC is run entirely by Harvard undergraduates, it is a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization that is operated independently of the university.\n\nHarvard Model Congress Boston, founded in 1986, is the oldest of the HMC conferences and is held annually in downtown Boston. Each February, nearly 1,500 delegates descend into Boston to tackle the most pressing and important issues facing the nation as they assume roles in each of the three branches of the United States government and beyond. Exciting and diverse programs, ranging from committees in the House of Representatives, Senate, and Supreme Court, to special programs such as press, lobbyists, and the National Security Council, help bring American government to life and have established Harvard Model Congress Boston as one of the nation's premier American government simulation programs.\n\nFounded in 2001, Harvard Model Congress San Francisco is an American government simulation program based on the successful Boston model and the first conference of its type on the West Coast. Over 300 delegates from across the country travel to HMCSF to learn about American government. The four-day conference, held in the San Francisco Financial District, is more intimate than the Boston conference and features a lower student-staff ratio and more individual attention from Harvard undergraduates. The conference was originally located in San Diego and subsequently moved to San Francisco, where it continues today.\n\nHarvard Model Congress Dubai was founded in 2013. This conference has a strong focus on presenting Congressional and international committees for a diverse set of international students. Harvard Model Congress Dubai 2013 took place at the American University in Dubai, UAE from January 24–26. It had the pleasure of hosting over 300 students from 11 different countries in its inaugural conference.\n\nHarvard Model Congress Asia was founded in 2004, holding an annual conference in mid-January (second weekend of January). HMC Asia 2014 took place in Hong Kong for the first time in its history, and has become the largest international conference, attracting nearly 600 students from 19 countries and 4 continents. Despite its size, HMC Asia boasts the lowest student-to-staff ratio of any of the model congress conferences. HMC Asia focuses on America's political system and international governmental institutions. The 2008 conference, supposed to held from September 4–6, was cancelled due to rebellion in Thailand. As the substitution for the cancelled 2008 HMCA, the 2009 session of Harvard Model Congress Asia was held in Seoul, Republic of Korea from January 22–24.\n\nHarvard Model Congress Europe was founded in 1987 and holds an annual conference in mid-March. Although it maintains a strong tradition of American government simulation with six congressional committees and several US government special programs like the Supreme Court, HMC Europe also has a strong focus on institutions of international governance, including (among others) the World Health Organization, Group of 24, and European Commission. HMC Europe 2017 hosted over 500 delegates from countries across Europe and the world, and the conference is looking forward to returning to Madrid in 2018.\n\nHarvard Model Congress Latin America was founded in 2014, holding an annual conference near the end of August. The first HMC Latin America will take place in São Paulo, Brazil from August 21–24 at Centro Universitário Belas Artes de São Paulo. Although it maintains a strong tradition of American government simulation, HMC Latin America also includes committees specifically relevant to Latin America such as the Organization of American States and the Presidential Cabinet of Brazil.\n\nIn all international conferences, students discuss and debate international issues from a more global perspective, formulating policy firsthand. The structured committee settings expose them to the realities of the democratic process, challenging them to forge compromise while advancing the interests of their constituency. The conferences seek to provide an unparalleled educational experience for talented secondary school students from around the world, offering hundreds of students each year an exciting opportunity to practice public speaking and policy writing. The conferences accommodate students with varying degrees of English ability, and the global diversity of participants and staff offers delegates the unique opportunity to approach challenging issues from numerous different perspectives.\n\nHarvard Model Congress strives to prepare the next generation of democratic leaders and global citizens. Because of their sheer size, the Harvard Model Congress conferences require a large amount of planning by the students hosting the events. Harvard Model Congress is one of the largest Harvard student organizations, and each year around 200 Harvard undergraduates assist with planning and running the conferences.\n\nAs soon as one Harvard Model Congress conference ends, planning for the subsequent such conference begins. For the Boston conference, topics for debate must be chosen by May so that briefing books can be prepared over the summer and distributed by early fall, in time to allow delegates to begin intensively researching each committee's topics for debate. Updates to briefings are written and distributed to schools by winter, and issue summaries are also provided to the delegates. HMC 2009 was HMC's first-ever paperless conference. For the duration of the event each year, Harvard Model Congress uses essentially all of the conference space available at the Boston Sheraton. Although most of the written work during the actual weekend of the event is done by the delegates, the staff continues to provide programmatic direction and manages all operations throughout the duration of the conference.\n\n"}
{"id": "51525637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51525637", "title": "Isa Khel (sub-tribe)", "text": "Isa Khel (sub-tribe)\n\nIsakhel is a sub-tribe of the Pashtun tribe, Niazi. The earliest recorded mention of the isa khel tribe is in Baburnama, 1504-1505. Most of the tribe still resides in their ancestral town of Isakhel, named after their ancestor Isa Khan Niazi, but a lot have shifted to bigger cities or different towns in pursuit of a better education and better opportunities.\n\nEarlier/Former Chiefs of Isa Khel Tribe after Isa Khan till 1748 before Zakku Khels who became chief with the help of Ahmad Shah Abdali in a coup in 1748. This tribe mainly live in southern suburbs and villages of Isa Khel comprising 60% population of Isa Khel tribe. The names of their villages are Khaglanwala, Behu (s) (i.e. Saido Khel, Beram Khel and Hakeem Khel),Sarwar Khel, Wandha Ghalay Khel, Attock Paniala, Khira in Lukki Marwat District. The names of some notable sub-clans are Khizar Khel, Ahmad Khel, Ghazi Khel, Azeem Khel,Sherkhani,Fateh Khani,Wadday,Nasir Khel,Daulat Khel (Saido Khel), Pahar Khel,Ghali Khel, Beram Khel,Hakeem Khel, Shamsi Khel (Umar Khel, Haji Khel, Jhangi Khel (Nourang Khel), Machi Khel, Sarwar Khel) \n\n\n"}
{"id": "5773736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5773736", "title": "Issues in anarchism", "text": "Issues in anarchism\n\nAnarchism is generally defined as the political philosophy which holds the state to be undesirable, unnecessary and harmful, or alternatively as opposing authority and hierarchical organization in the conduct of human relations. Proponents of anarchism, known as anarchists, advocate stateless societies based on non-hierarchical voluntary associations.\n\nThere are many philosophical differences among anarchists concerning questions of ideology, values and strategy. Ideas about how anarchist societies should work vary considerably, especially with respect to economics. There are also disagreements about how such a society might be brought about—with some anarchists being committed to a strategy of nonviolence, while others advocate armed struggle.\n\nAnarchist schools of thought encompass not only a range of individual schools, but also a considerable divergence in the use of some key terms. Some terms, such as \"socialism\", have been subject to multiple definitions and ideological struggle throughout the period of the development of anarchism. Others, such as \"capitalism\", are used in divergent and often contradictory ways by different schools within the tradition. In addition, the meanings of terms such as \"mutualism\" have changed over time, sometimes without spawning new schools. All of these terminological difficulties contribute to misunderstandings within and about anarchism.\n\nA central concern is whether the term \"anarchism\" is defined in opposition to hierarchy, authority, the state or state and capitalism. Debates over the meaning of the term emerge from the fact that it refers to both an abstract philosophical position and to intellectual, political and institutional traditions, all of which have been fraught with conflict. Some minimal, abstract definitions encourage the inclusion of figures, movements and philosophical positions which have historically positioned themselves outside, or even in opposition to, individuals and traditions that have identified themselves as \"anarchist\".\n\nAnti-capitalism is considered a necessary element of anarchism by most anarchists.q Usages in political circles have varied considerably. In 1894, Richard T. Ely noted that the term had \"already acquired a variety of meanings\". In its most general sense, these included the view that society is \"a living, growing organism, the laws of which are something different from the laws of individual action\". Several years earlier (1888), the individualist anarchist Benjamin Tucker included the full text of a \"Socialistic Letter\" by Ernest Lesigne in his essay on \"State Socialism and Anarchism\". According to Lesigne, there are two socialisms: \"One is dictatorial, the other libertarian\".\n\nAmong anarchists, there is no consensus on the legitimacy or utility of violence in revolutionary struggle. For example, Mikhail Bakunin, Peter Kropotkin, Emma Goldman and Errico Malatesta wrote of violence as a necessary and sometimes desirable force in revolutionary settings. At the same time, they denounced acts of individual terrorism, see Bakunin's \"The Program of the International Brotherhood\" (1869) and Malatesta's \"Violence as a Social Factor\" (1895). Other anarchists such as Leo Tolstoy, Dorothy Day and Mahatma Gandhi have been advocates of pacifism.\n\nAnarchists have often been portrayed as dangerous and violent, possibly due to a number of high-profile violent actions, including riots, assassinations, insurrections and terrorism committed by some anarchists as well as persistently negative media portrayals. Late 19th-century revolutionaries encouraged acts of political violence, called \"propaganda of the deed\", such as bombings and the assassinations of heads of state to further anarchism. However, the term originally referred to exemplary forms of direct action meant to inspire the masses to revolution. Propaganda of the deed may be violent or nonviolent.\n\nWhile all anarchists consider antimilitarism (opposition to war) to be inherent to their philosophy, anarcho-pacifists take this further, following Tolstoy's belief in pacifism. Although numerous anarchist-related initiatives have been based on the tactic of nonviolence (see Earth First! and Food Not Bombs), many anarchists reject pacifism as an ideology, instead supporting a \"diversity of tactics\". Authors Ward Churchill (\"Pacifism as Pathology\", 1986) and Peter Gelderloos (\"How Nonviolence Protects the State\", 2005; \"The Failure of Nonviolence\", 2013) have published influential books critical of pacifist doctrine, which they view as ineffectual and hypocritical. In a 2010 article, author Randall Amster argued for the development of a \"complementarity of tactics\" to bridge the pacifist and more militant aspects of anarchism.\n\nAs a result of anarchism's critical view of certain types of private property, many anarchists see the destruction of property as an acceptable form of violence or argue that it is not in fact violence at all. In her widely cited 1912 essay \"Direct Action\", Voltairine de Cleyre drew on American historical events, including the destroying of revenue stamps and the Boston Tea Party as a defense of such activities.\n\nMany anarchists participate in subversive organizations as a means to undermine the establishment, such as Food Not Bombs, radical labor unions, alternative media and radical social centers. This is in accordance with the anarchist ideal that governments are intrinsically evil: only by destroying the power of governments can individual freedoms and liberties be preserved. However, some anarchist schools in theory adopt the concept of dual power: creating the structures for a new anti-authoritarian society in the shell of the old, hierarchical one.\n\nWhile most anarchists firmly oppose voting, or otherwise participating in the state institution, there are a few that disagree. The prominent anarchist Pierre-Joseph Proudhon stood for election to the French Constituent Assembly twice in 1848. Paul Brousse developed the concept of libertarian municipalism in Switzerland in the 1890s which involved participating in local elections. Anarchists have opposed voting for multiple reasons. Taking part in elections has historically resulted in radicals becoming part of the system they oppose rather than ending it. Voting acknowledges the state's legitimacy.\n\nDuring the 2004 U.S. presidential election, the anarchist collective CrimethInc. launched \"Don't Just Vote, Get Active\", a campaign promoting the importance of direct action rather than electoral change. Anarchists in other countries often engage in similar anti-voting campaigns. Others advocate a more pragmatic approach, including voting in referenda, while other prominent anarchists like Howard Zinn and Noam Chomsky have pledged their support for progressive candidates such as Ralph Nader. In addition to merely voting, some anarchists such as Proudhon and more recently Icelandic activist Smari McCarthy have stood for and won elections to national legislative bodies.\n\nThe individualist anarchist Lysander Spooner argued that voting was a legitimate means of self-defense against the state and noted that many supporters of the state consider both voting and abstention to be acknowledgments of the state's legitimacy. Spooner's essay \"No Treason\" offers an individualist anarchist rebuttal to the argument that existing democratic governments are justified by majority consent.\n\nDuring the 2014 Scottish independence referendum there was debate within anarchist circles about whether to take an abstentionist position, vote for independence or to vote to remain in the United Kingdom and anarchists rarely fitted into the easy binary of Yes/No voters of the referendum, with all seeking to go beyond the choices offered at the ballot box. There was also a debate about what Scottish independence would mean for the anarchist movement and social struggle. Groups like The Anarchist Federation in Scotland (mainly in Edinburgh and Glasgow) took a critical stance skeptical of the benefits of Scottish independence.\n\nIn 2016 within the United Kingdom, there was considerable debate around the Brexit vote. Anarchists are traditionally opposed to the European Union, yet the vote was seen as one imposed by two factions of the right-wing. Yet again there was debate about whether to vote to Remain in the European Union, abstain (some left communists argued for abstaining) or vote to Leave since the United Kingdom government (the Conservative Party) was mostly in favour of remain while UK Independence Party and far-right parties favoured Leave. There was also debate within the left amongst anarchists and those who considered themselves to have a Lexit (Left Exit position) The victory of the Leave side united anarchists whether voters or abstainers against the racist incidents and rise of fascism and nationalism which was considered to have happened following the result of the vote. Many anarchists and anti-authoritarian leftists argue Brexit was negative for social struggles and migrants in particular and considerable efforts were made to analyze why the Leave result happened.\n\nFor individualist anarchists, \"the system of democracy, of majority decision, is held null and void. Any impingement upon the natural rights of the person is unjust and a symbol of majority tyranny\". Libertarian municipalist Murray Bookchin criticized individualist anarchists for opposing democracy and said \"majority rule\" is consistent with anarchism, but he also preferred the term assembly rather than democracy. Bookchin has in turn been accused of \"municipal statism\", i.e. non-anarchism. Later, Bookchin renounced anarchism to identify himself as an advocate of Communalism.\n\nAnarchists have often been portrayed as dangerous and violent, due mainly to a number of high-profile violent acts including riots, assassinations and insurrections involving anarchists. However, the use of terrorism and assassination is condemned by most anarchist ideology, though there remains no consensus on the legitimacy or utility of violence. Some anarchists have opposed coercion while others have supported it, particularly in the form of violent revolution on the path to anarchy or utopia.\n\nSome anarchists share Leo Tolstoy's Christian anarchist belief in nonviolence. These anarcho-pacifists advocate nonviolent resistance as the only method of achieving a truly anarchist revolution. They often see violence as the basis of government and coercion and argue that as such violence is illegitimate, no matter who is the target. Some of Proudhon's French followers even saw strike action as coercive and refused to take part in such traditional socialist tactics.\n\nOther anarchists advocate Marshall Rosenberg's Nonviolent Communication that relates to peoples fundamental needs and feelings using strategies of requests, observations and empathy yet providing for the use of protective force while rejecting pacifism as a compromising strategy of the left that just perpetuates violence.\n\nOther anarchists, such as Mikhail Bakunin and Errico Malatesta, saw violence as a necessary and sometimes desirable force. Malatesta took the view that it is \"necessary to destroy with violence, since one cannot do otherwise, the violence which denies [the means of life and for development] to the workers\" (\"Umanità Nova\", number 125, 6 September 1921).\n\nBetween 1894 and 1901, individual anarchists assassinated numerous heads of state, including:\n\nSuch \"propaganda of the deed\" was not popular among anarchists and many in the movement condemned the tactic. President William McKinley's assassin Leon Czolgosz claimed to be a disciple of Emma Goldman. Goldman disavowed the act, although she did not condemn Czolgosz's motivations in doing it.\n\nGoldman included in her definition of anarchism the observation that all governments rest on violence and this is one of the many reasons they should be opposed. Goldman herself did not oppose tactics like assassination until she went to Russia, where she witnessed the violence of the Russian state and the Red Army. From then on, she condemned the use of terrorism, especially by the state, but Goldman still supported most other forms of revolutionary violence throughout her life. In a debate with a pacifist five years before her death, she countered that \"the organized force used against the followers of Gandhi has finally forced them to use violence, much to the distress of Gandhi\" and concluded that \"as a method of combating the complex social injustices and inequalities, non-resistance cannot be a decisive factor\" (\"non-resistance\" was the term for nonviolence used by Tolstoy and other early 20th century pacifists). Goldman at this time was an information officer for the anarchist militias of the Spanish Revolution, which were committed to armed struggle.\n\nDepictions in the press and popular fiction (for example, a malevolent bomb-throwing anarchist in Joseph Conrad's \"The Secret Agent\") helped create a lasting public impression that anarchists are violent terrorists. This perception was enhanced by events such as the Haymarket riot, where anarchists were blamed for throwing a bomb at police who came to break up a public meeting in Chicago.\n\nMore recently, anarchists have been involved in protests against World Trade Organization (WTO) and International Monetary Fund (IMF) meetings across the globe, which the media has described as violent or riots. Traditionally, May Day in London has also been a day of marching, but in recent years the Metropolitan Police have warned that a \"hardcore of anarchists\" are intent on causing violence. Anarchists often respond that it is the police who initiate violence at these demonstrations, with anarchists who are otherwise peaceful sometimes forced to defend themselves. The anarchists involved in such protests often formed black blocs at these protests and some engaged in property destruction, vandalism, or in violent conflicts with police, though others stuck to non-violent principles.\n\nThose participating in black blocs distinguish between \"violence\" and \"property destruction\": they claim that violence is when a person inflicts harm to another person while property destruction or property damage is not violence, although it can have indirect harm such as financial harm. Most anarchists do not consider the destruction of property to be violent as do most activists who believe in non-violence.\n\nMost anarchists consider opposition to militarism to be inherent in their philosophy. Some anarchists take it further and follow Leo Tolstoy's belief in non-violence (note that these anarcho-pacifists are not necessarily Christian anarchists as Tolstoy was), advocating non-violent resistance as the only method of achieving a truly anarchist revolution.\n\nAnarchist literature often portrays war as an activity in which the state seeks to gain and consolidate power, both domestically and in foreign lands. Many anarchists subscribe to Randolph Bourne's view that \"war is the health of the state\". Anarchists believe that if they were to support a war they would be strengthening the state—indeed, Peter Kropotkin was alienated from other anarchists when he expressed support for the British in World War I.\n\nWhile some anarchists favour collective property or no property, others such as some individualist anarchists of historical note (e.g. Benjamin Tucker and Lysander Spooner) support private property. Tucker argues that collectivism in property is absurd: \"That there is an entity known as the community which is the rightful owner of all land, Anarchists deny...I...maintain that 'the community' is a non-entity, that it has no existence\" and he was particularly adamant in his opposition to \"communism\", even to the point of asserting that those who opposed private property were not anarchists: \"Anarchism is a word without meaning, unless it includes the liberty of the individual to control his product or whatever his product has brought him through exchange in a free market– that is, private property. Whoever denies private property is of necessity an Archist\". However, some of these individuals opposed property titles to unused land.\n\nEarly French feminists such as Jenny d'Héricourt and Juliette Adam criticised the misogyny in the anarchism of Proudhon during the 1850s.\n\nAnarcha-feminism is a kind of radical feminism that espouses the belief that patriarchy is a fundamental problem in society. However, it was not explicitly formulated as anarcha-feminism until the early 1970s during the second-wave feminist movement.\n\nEarly first-wave feminist Mary Wollstonecraft held proto-anarchist views and William Godwin is often considered a feminist anarchist precursor. While most anarchists of the period did not take these ideas seriously, others such as Florence Finch Kelly and Moses Harman held gender equality as a topic of significant importance. Anarcha-feminism garnered further attention through the work of early 20th-century authors and theorists including Emma Goldman and Voltairine de Cleyre. In the Spanish Civil War, an anarcha-feminist group, Mujeres Libres (), organized to defend both anarchist and feminist ideas.\n\nBlack anarchism opposes the existence of a state, capitalism and subjugation and domination of people of color and favors a non-hierarchical organization of society. Theorists include Ashanti Alston, Lorenzo Komboa Ervin and Sam Mbah. Some of these theorists have had past experiences with the Black Panther Party and came to anarchism after they became critical of the Black Panther Party's brand of Marxist–Leninism. Anarchist People of Color (APOC) was created as a forum for non-Caucasian anarchists to express their thoughts about racial issues within the anarchist movement, particularly within the United States. Anti-Racist Action is not an anarchist group, but many anarchists are involved. It focuses on publicly confronting antisemites, racists, supremacists and others, such as the Ku Klux Klan, neo-Nazi groups and the like.\n\nMost modern and historical anarchists describe themselves as anti-racists. Many early anarchists, notably Lucy Parsons (a person of color and formerly an enslaved American) viewed racism as one of many negative side-effects of capitalism and expected that it would vanish in a post-capitalist world. However, among modern anarchists anti-racism plays a more prominent role and racism is typically viewed as one of several forms of social hierarchy and stratification which must be destroyed. No anarchist organizations has ever included racism as part of its platform and many—particularly modern formations—include explicit anti-racism. For instance, American anarchists were alone in opposing racism against Chinese and Mexican workers in the late 19th century and early 20th century.\n\nSince the late 1970s, anarchists have been involved in fighting the rise of neo-fascist groups. In Germany and the United Kingdom, some anarchists worked within militant anti-fascist groups alongside members of the Marxist left. They advocated directly combating fascists with physical force rather than relying on the state. Since the late 1990s, a similar tendency has developed within anarchism in the United States.\n\nAnti-Racist Action is one of the largest grassroots anti-fascist and anti-racist organizations in North America today and counts many anarchists among its members. Their tactics, centered around directly confronting neo-fascist and white-supremacist groups, are considered controversial both within the anarchist movement (where they are sometimes portrayed as well-intentioned but ineffective) and in mainstream society (where they are often portrayed as violent and disruptive).\n\nMany anarchists also oppose the concept of race itself, arguing that it has no biological basis in science and is a social construction designed to divide the working class and preserve capitalism.\n\nBlack anarchism opposes the existence of a state, capitalism and subjugation and domination of people of African descent and favours a non-hierarchical organization of society. Theorists include Ashanti Alston, Lorenzo Komboa Ervin, Sam Mbah, Aragorn! and Martin Sostre. APOC emerged in the United States as a tendency which theorized anarchism in the broader context of race. Founded by writer and organizer Ernesto Aguilar, an APOC email list became the basis for collectives composed of people of colour to form in several American cities. APOC held a conference in Detroit, Michigan in 2003. In 2005, the first APOC journal (\"Wildfire\") was launched, but folded a few months later. In 2007, Roger White and the Oakland, California APOC group founded the Jailbreak Press blog.\n\nA minority of historically prominent anarchists have been accused of racism, e.g. Proudhon and Bakunin.\n\nFrom Proudhon and Bakunin to the Spanish anarcho-syndicalists, most anarchists have questioned or opposed organized religion, believing that most organized religions are hierarchical or authoritarian and more often than not aligned with contemporary power structures like the state and capital. Nonetheless, others reconcile anarchism with religion.\n\nChristian anarchists believe that there is no higher authority than God and oppose earthly authority such as government and established churches. They believe that Jesus' teachings and the practice of the early Church were clearly anarchistic. Some of them feel that the teachings of the Nazarenes and other early groups of followers were corrupted by contemporary religious views, most notably when Theodosius I declared Nicene Christianity the official religion of the Roman Empire. Christian anarchists, who follow Jesus' directive to \"turn the other cheek\", are usually strict pacifists, although some believe in a limited justification of defense, especially defense of others. The most famous advocate of Christian anarchism was Leo Tolstoy, author of \"The Kingdom of God Is Within You\", who called for a society based on compassion, nonviolent principles and freedom. Christian anarchists tend to form experimental communities (such as the Catholic Worker). They also occasionally resist taxation.\n\nBuddhist anarchism originated in the influential Chinese anarchist movement of the 1920s. Taixu, one of the leading thinkers and writers of this school, was deeply influenced by the work of Christian anarchists like Tolstoy and by the ancient Chinese well-field system. In the late 19th century, the Ghadar movement in India (see Har Dayal), influenced by Buddhist thought and by Swami Dayananda Saraswati (founder of Arya Samaj), saw anarchism as a way of propagating the ancient culture of the Arya (not to be confused with the much later appropriation of \"Aryan\" identity by Nazism). Buddhist anarchism was later revived in the 1960s by writers such as Gary Snyder; an incarnation of this school of thought was popularized by Jack Kerouac in his book \"The Dharma Bums\".\n\nWith its focus on the environment and equality, along with its often decentralized nature, neopaganism, has led to a number of neopagan anarchists. One of the most prominent is Starhawk, who writes extensively about both spirituality and activism.\n\nDiscussing the anarchist movement in Britain in 2002, Adam K. has argued that it \"has an especially ignorant and hegemonistic perception of the Muslim community\", which he attributed to \"the anglo-centric nature of the movement\". Quoting the statement that \"Islam is an enemy of all freedom loving people\" from an anarchist magazine, he argues that this is \"no different to the bigoted rhetoric of George Bush or even BNP leader Nick Griffin\".\n\nThroughout most of its history, anarchism has been defined by its proponents in opposition to capitalism, which they believe can be maintained only by state violence. Most non-capitalist anarchists follow Proudhon in opposing ownership of workplaces by capitalists and aim to replace wage labour with workers' associations. These anarchists agree with Kropotkin's comment that \"the origin of the anarchist inception of society… [lies in] the criticism… of the hierarchical organisations and the authoritarian conceptions of society\" rather than in simple opposition to the state or government. They argue that the wage system is hierarchical and authoritarian in nature and consequently capitalism cannot be anarchist.\n\nMost early individualist anarchists considered themselves \"fervent anti-capitalists… [who see] no contradiction between their individualist stance and their rejection of capitalism\". Many defined themselves as socialists. These early individualist-anarchists defined \"capitalism\" in various ways, but often it was discussed in terms of usury: \"There are three forms of usury, interest on money, rent on land and houses, and profit in exchange. Whoever is in receipt of any of these is a usurer\".\n\nExcluding these, they tended to support free trade, free competition and varying levels of private property such as mutualism and homesteading. It is this distinction which has led to the rift between anarchism and anarcho-capitalism. Historically, anarchists considered themselves socialists and opposed to capitalism, thus anarcho-capitalism is considered by many anarchists today as not being true anarchism.\n\nAnarchist organisations, for example the Confederación Nacional del Trabajo (Spain) and the Anarchist Federation (Britain and Ireland), generally take an explicitly anti-capitalist stance. In the 20th century, several economists began to formulate a form of radical American libertarianism known as anarcho-capitalism. This has met resistance from those who hold that capitalism is inherently oppressive or statist and many anarchists and scholars do not consider anarcho-capitalism to properly cohere with the spirit, principles, or history of anarchism. However, other anarchists and scholars regard anarchism as referring only to opposition to the non-privatisation of all aspects of the state and thus do consider anarcho-capitalism to be a form of anarchism.\n\nMany anarchists are actively involved in the anti-globalization movement, seeing corporate globalization as a neocolonialist attempt to use economic coercion on a global scale, carried out through state institutions such as the World Bank, World Trade Organization, Group of Eight and the World Economic Forum. Globalization is an ambiguous term that has different meanings to different anarchist factions. Many anarchists use the term to mean neocolonialism and/or cultural imperialism (which they may see as related). Others, particularly anarcho-capitalists, use \"globalization\" to mean the worldwide expansion of the division of labor and trade, which they see as beneficial so long as governments do not intervene. Market anarchists and anarcho-capitalists see the worldwide expansion of the division of labor through trade (\"globalization\") as a boon, but oppose the regulation and cartelization imposed by the World Bank, World Trade Organization and \"managed trade\" agreements such as the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) and the Central America Free Trade Agreement (CAFTA). Many also object to fiat money issued by central banks and resulting debasement of money and confiscation of wealth.\n\nGroups such as Reclaim the Streets were among the instigators of the so-called anti-globalization movement. The Carnival Against Capitalism on 18 June 1999 is generally regarded as the first of the major anti-globalization protests. Anarchists, such as the WOMBLES, have on occasion played a significant role in planning, organising and participating in subsequent protests. The protests tended to be organised on anarchist direct action principles with a general tolerance for a range of different activities ranging from those who engage in tactical frivolity to the black blocs.\n\nAnarchism has a long history of opposing imperialism, both in the core nations (the colonizers) and the periphery nations (the colonized). In general, anarchists have preferred to focus on building revolutions at home and doing solidarity work for comrades in other countries, e.g. Guy Aldred was jailed for printing Shyamji Krishnavarma's \"The Indian Sociologist\".\n\nAnother example of this was Rudolf Rocker, a prominent German anarchist and anti-fascist who was particularly active amongst Jewish workers. In his \"Nationalism and Culture\", he argued for a \"federation of European peoples\" which would include Jews. Rejecting biological theories of race and rejecting the concept of nation, he argued that since it was European states that had conquered and colonized the rest of the world, successful libertarian organization amongst Europeans was \"the first condition for the creation of a world federation, which will also secure the so-called colonial peoples the same rights for the pursuit of happiness. Many modern anarchists and other anti-imperialists share this approach.\n\nDuring the 2014 Scottish independence referendum there was debate within anarchist circles about either to take an abstentionist position, vote for independence or to vote to remain in the United Kingdom and anarchists rarely fit into the easy binary of Yes/ No voters of the referendum with all seeking to go beyond the choices offered at the ballot box. There was also a debate about what Scottish independence would mean for the anarchist movement and social struggle. Groups like The Anarchist Federation in Scotland (mainly in Edinburgh and Glasgow) took a critical stance skeptical of the benefits of Scottish independence Scottish anarchists argued that Scottish independence and Scottish nationalism diverted energy away from grassroots struggles and that the movement for Scottish independence sucked people towards Scottish nationalism and electoral politics\n\nHistorically anarchism was supportive of the anationalist movement as well as of the Esperanto language, a language constructed to serve as a politically and ethnically neutral international language. After the Spanish Civil War, Francoist Spain persecuted anarchists and Catalan nationalists, among whom the use of Esperanto was extensive.\n\nThe environment and sustainability have been an issue for anarchists from at least as far back as Kropotkin's 1899 book \"Fields, Factories and Workshops\", but since the late 1970s anarchists in English-speaking world and European countries have been agitating for the natural environment. Eco-anarchists or green anarchists often embrace deep ecology, a worldview that strives to cultivate biodiversity and sustainability. Eco-anarchists often use direct action against what they see as Earth-destroying institutions. Of particular importance is the Earth First! movement that takes action such as tree sitting. The more militant Earth Liberation Front, which grew out of Earth First!, also has connections with the anarchist movement. Another important component is ecofeminism, which sees the domination of nature as a metaphor for the domination of women.\n\nMurray Bookchin's work on social ecology, David Watson's work with \"Fifth Estate\" magazine, Steve Booth's work in the United Kingdom publication \"Green Anarchist\" and Graham Purchase's writings on green syndicalism have all contributed to the broad variety and scope of green anarchist/eco-anarchist thought and action. Green anarchism also involves a critique of industrial capitalism and for some green anarchists civilization itself.\n\nWhile many anarchists (especially those involved in the anti-globalization movement) continue to see themselves as a leftist movement, some thinkers and activists believe it is necessary to re-evaluate anarchism's relationship with the traditional left. Like many radical ideologies, most anarchist schools of thought are to some degree sectarian. There is often a difference of opinion within each school about how to react to, or interact with, other schools. Many anarchists draw from a wide range of political perspectives, such as the Zapatista Army of National Liberation, the Situationists, \"ultra leftists\", autonomist Marxism and various indigenous cultures.\n\nA movement called post-left anarchy seeks to distance itself from the traditional \"left\"—communists, socialists, social democrats and the like—and to escape the confines of ideology in general. Post-leftists argue that anarchism has been weakened by its long attachment to contrary \"leftist\" movements and single issue causes (anti-war, anti-nuclear and so on). It calls for a synthesis of anarchist thought and a specifically anti-authoritarian revolutionary movement outside of the leftist milieu. Important groups and individuals associated with post-left anarchy include CrimethInc., the magazine \"\" and its editor Jason McQuinn, Bob Black, Hakim Bey and others.\n\nThe term post-anarchism was originated by Saul Newman, first receiving popular attention in his book \"From Bakunin to Lacan\", a synthesis of classical anarchist theory and poststructuralist thought. Subsequent to Newman's use of the term, it has taken on a life of its own and a wide range of ideas including autonomism, post-left anarchy, situationism, postcolonialism and Zapatismo. By its very nature, post-anarchism rejects the idea that it should be a coherent set of doctrines and beliefs. Key thinkers nonetheless associated with post-anarchism include Saul Newman, Todd May, Gilles Deleuze and Félix Guattari.\n\nSome activists, calling themselves \"insurrectionary anarchists\", are critical of formal anarchist labor unions and federations and advocate informal organization, carrying out acts of resistance in various struggles. Proponents include Wolfi Landstreicher and Alfredo M. Bonanno, author of works including \"Armed Joy\" and \"The Anarchist Tension\". This tendency is represented in the United States in magazines such as \"Willful Disobedience\" and \"Killing King Abacus\".\n\nWhile communism is proposed as a form of social and economic organisation by many anarchists, other anarchists consider it a danger to the liberty and free development of the individual. Most schools of anarchism have recognized a distinction between libertarian and authoritarian forms of communism. Proudhon said of communism that \"whether of the utopian or the Marxist variety, that it destroyed freedom by taking away from the individual control over his means of production\" and \"Communism is exploitation of the strong by the weak\". Mikhail Bakunin stated: \"I hate Communism because it is the negation of liberty and because for me humanity is unthinkable without liberty. I am not a Communist, because Communism concentrates and swallows up in itself for the benefit of the State all the forces of society, because it inevitably leads to the concentration of property in the hands of the State\". Bakunin was speaking of \"state communism\" (authoritarian Marxism) as verified by the last line which mentions state property—anarcho-communists explicitly reject state property and authority, especially centralized authority.\n\nAlthough Peter Kropotkin, one of the leading proponents of anarcho-communism while also opposing state communism, argued for an economic model of free distribution between all individuals, many individualist anarchists oppose communism in all its forms on the grounds that voluntary communism is not practicable. Individualist such as Benjamin Tucker, Victor Yarros and Henry Appleton have denied that anarcho-communism is a genuine form of anarchism. They rejected its strategies and argued that it is inherently authoritarian. In the opinion of individualist Henry Appleton, \"Communism, being opposed to natural law, must necessarily call upon unnatural methods if it would put itself into practice\" and employ \"pillage, brute force, and violence\".\n\nAnarcho-communists reject the criticism, pointing to the principle of voluntary association that underpins their theory and differentiates it from state communism. Some individualist anarchists are also willing to recognize anarcho-communism as a legitimate form. Kevin Carson writes that \"free market, libertarian communist, syndicalism, and other kinds of collectivist anarchists must learn to coexist in peace and mutual respect today, in our fight against the corporate state, and tomorrow, in the panarchy that is likely to succeed it\".\n\n"}
{"id": "36033564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36033564", "title": "Janata Tower Case", "text": "Janata Tower Case\n\nThe Janata Tower Case was a corruption case in Bangladesh over Janata tower in Karwan Bazar in Dhaka. The case lead to the conviction of former military dictator H. M. Ershad.\n\nJanata Tower is an eleven storey building located in Karwan Bazar, Dhaka, Bangladesh. It was originally planned to be 15 floors. After construction stopped in 1991 when General Ershad stepped down the tower became a home for squatters.\n\nOn 14 April 1991 the Bureau of Anti Corruption (today Anti Corruption Commission) filed a case against 17 people including former president and military autocrat Hussein Mohammad Ershad and 19 others with Tejgaon Police Station. He was charged with abuse of power for collusion with M. M. Rahmat Ullah in allotting the land for the project; and possessing unaccounted money. The Justice in his 91 -page verdict said General Ershad was found guilty under the Prevention Act; on November 20, 2000, the justice sentenced the former president to seven years' imprisonment. The building was acquired by Bangladesh government. As a result, Ershad could not participate in the 2001 elections.\n\nErshad appealed against the verdict in the High Court Division which affirmed the conviction, but reduced the sentence to five years on 24 August 2004. He was also fined 55 million taka. He was released with a year and half remaining on his sentence. Ershad's then wife Rowshan Ershad was fined Ten thousand taka. Shukur Ali Pradhan another accused in the case had filed to get the tower back from the government. The high court ruled in his favor but the supreme court overturned it and the property remains in government ownership.\n\nErshad, the former President of Bangladesh and chief of the National Party (\"Jatiya Party\"), was released on bail on April 9, 2001 after serving four months in jail in Dhaka.\n\nThe tower was repurposed as an Software park by the government of Bangladesh. Matiur Rahman Chowdhury, editor of the daily Manab zamin was sentenced to jail in May 2002 for contempt of court. The paper had published a transcript of a phone conversation between Ershad and a High court judge in which Ershad was seeking a more favourable verdict in the Janata tower case.\n"}
{"id": "12455139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12455139", "title": "Jerry McAuley", "text": "Jerry McAuley\n\nJerry McAuley (1839 in County Kerry, Ireland – September 18, 1884), along with his wife, Maria (née Fahy) McAuley, founded the Water Street Mission in Lower Manhattan. A self-described \"rogue and street thief\" who spent seven years in Sing Sing prison during the 1860s, McAuley's mission became America's first Rescue Mission and is now known as the New York City Rescue Mission.\n\nMcAuley had been born in County Kerry, Ireland in 1839, the son of a counterfeiter. His father abandoned the family to escape law enforcement officers pursuing him. Jerry's mother sent him off to live with his grandmother.\n\nIn January 1857, aged 19, he was accused of highway robbery, convicted, and sent to Sing-Sing. While there, McAuley heard a man by the name of Orville Gardner testify of his conversion. On March 8, 1864, aged 26, McAuley was pardoned and set free. He set out to associate with Christians.\n\nSoon after this, McAuley met Alfrederick Hatch, a businessman. Hatch became McAuley's confidant. In October 1872 McAuley took possession of the Water Street house. The money he had raised was used to repair the building and soon after, the mission at 316 Water Street named \"Helping Hand for Men\" was open.\n\nIn 1882, after twelve years, McAuley left Water Street to start the Cremorne Mission near Times Square. Two years later, on a fall afternoon in September 1884, he died from tuberculosis contracted while in Sing Sing.\nHis widow, Maria Fahy McAuley, married prominent architect Bradford Gilbert in 1892; the couple had a daughter, Blossom.\n\n"}
{"id": "13210456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13210456", "title": "Karl Dean", "text": "Karl Dean\n\nKarl Foster Dean (born September 20, 1955) is an American politician who served as the 68th Mayor of Nashville, Tennessee from 2007 to 2015. A member of the Democratic Party, he previously served as Nashville's Director of Law under Mayor Bill Purcell from 1999 to 2007. In 1990, 1994 and 1998, he was elected the city's public defender. Dean, an attorney by occupation, is currently an Adjunct Professor of Law at Vanderbilt University Law School.\n\nHe graduated with a Bachelor of Arts degree from Columbia University in 1978 and a Juris Doctor from Vanderbilt University in 1981. His campaign message for Mayor of Nashville focused on improving education, public safety and economic development saying \"it's all connected.\" During Dean's first year in office, he reworked the arrangement between Metro and the Nashville Predators in order to keep the team in Nashville. During Dean's first term, he faced two major challenges: the Great Recession and the 2010 Tennessee floods. During his two terms in office, Dean transformed Downtown Nashville by adding a new minor league baseball stadium, a riverfront amphitheater and park and a new convention center dubbed Music City Center. Dean was friendly towards business and often used tax incentives to lure companies to Nashville. He is also involved in conservationist efforts of historical areas such as Music Row through his involvement with Music Industry Coalition. He helped preserve historic sites such as RCA Studio A.\n\nIn 2017, Dean declared his candidacy for Governor of Tennessee in the 2018 election. In the first three months of the campaign, Dean raised $1.2 million and spent $200,000; he went on to win the Democratic nomination on August 2, 2018 and advanced to the general election. Dean lost the election to businessman Bill Lee.\n\nIn March 2005, Karl Dean wrote that Mayor Bill Purcell could seek a third term, despite a 1994 referendum on \"any elected office authorized or created by the [Metro] charter.\" This was because the 1963 charter states that there is a three-term limit for mayors, the 1994 amendment took place against a backdrop of a push for congressional term limits, and local public discussion focused on the Metro Council. In January 2003, he said a proposed law to ban job discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation was not unconstitutional.\n\nWhen Metro Council members' health-care benefits came under scrutiny in September 2004, because the Metro Charter does not allow pension benefits for Council members, Dean said that a health-care benefit wouldn't legally fall under a pension benefit, and therefore wouldn't be against the Charter.\n\nWhen asked if an amendment to the Metropolitan Charter requiring raises in the maximum property tax rates approved by the Metro Council to also be approved by Metro voters, Dean said that a court was likely to find that provision of the Metro Charter invalid. This is because, he said, the Tennessee General Assembly has not authorized the charter of a consolidated government to restrict the authority of a legislative body to levy an \"ad valorem\" tax on property.\n\nDean announced his mayoral candidacy on December 19, 2006. His campaign message focused on improving education, public safety, and economic development saying \"it's all connected.\" In the general election on August 2, 2007, he placed first with 24.6% of the vote. This advanced him to a run-off election against Bob Clement. On September 11, 2007 Dean won the run-off election with 52.2% of the vote.\n\nDean easily won re-election in August 2011 with 79.2% of the vote.\n\nDean left office on September 25, 2015. He was succeeded by Megan Barry, the first woman to be Mayor of Nashville.\n\nDuring Dean's two terms, the budget for Metro Nashville schools increased by $218 million (37 percent) and Nashville schools saw increased graduation rates, reduced dropout rates, and improved test scores. He created the Limitless Libraries program, which connects Nashville Public Libraries to Metro Nashville Schools, part of a greater push to enable opportunities for underserved schools in the city.\n\nDean also improved school choice by recruiting charter schools to the city and augmented teaching talent by partnering with Teach for America. As a part of this partnership, summer academies were created.\n\nDean's tenure as Mayor marked sales taxes revenue increased by over $100 million (36 percent), indicative of the growth of Nashville as a major city. One of the marquee projects of Dean's mayoral career was overseeing the creation of Music City Center, a massive convention center that has generated over $735 million in revenue for the city. Other projects included the construction of Ascend Amphitheater and First Tennessee Park, public venues that bring in millions of dollars of revenue to the city and have been instrumental in the expansion of downtown Nashville. Finally, Dean incentivized businesses to relocate to Nashville, including Bridgestone Americas and HCA.\n\nDean led Nashville during the Great Recession. At that time, the city experiencing 7 years of GDP growth and an increase of $35 billion (45 percent) in that time. Nashville has had one of the most successful recoveries from the recession. By the end of Dean's mayoral term, Nashville had added the third highest percentage employment since its lowest point in the recession out of all cities in the US, adding over 144,300 jobs (19.3 percent employment growth).\n\nWith public safety as one of Dean's primary campaign promises, Dean increased the size of the Nashville police force by 13.5 percent. In conjunction with this, Dean opened two new precincts to more equally distribute areas of coverage and started Nashville's first DNA crime lab. By 2013, Nashville had reached the lowest crime numbers and homicide rate in its history.\n\nDean's time as Mayor was accompanied by increased construction of greenway and bike paths around the city of Nashville. He added over 4,000 acres of park land and created the city's Office of Environment and Sustainability. As a result of his efforts, curbside recycling was expanded around the Metro area and the city moved in a more green direction.\n\nOn February 26, 2017, Dean announced he would run for Governor of Tennessee in the 2018 election as a Democrat. He is casting himself as a pro-business moderate running on a message of education, jobs, and healthcare in Tennessee.\n\nIn the first three months of the campaign, Dean raised $1.2 million and spent $200,000, making him the third most funded candidate for governor behind Republicans Randy Boyd & Bill Lee.\n\nDean has been married to Anne Davis, a prominent Tennessee lawyer, since August 6, 1983. Anne Davis is a relative of Joe C. Davis Jr. and Rascoe Davis and is a proprietor of the Joe C. Davis Foundation in Nashville. Both Anne and Karl are Catholic. Dean and his wife have three children, Rascoe, Frances, and Wallen.\n\nDean was born in Sioux Falls, South Dakota, and raised primarily in Gardner, Massachusetts.\n\n"}
{"id": "38515464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38515464", "title": "Koeruna language", "text": "Koeruna language\n\nCoeruna (Koeruna) is an extinct Witotoan language of Brazil.\n"}
{"id": "1623074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1623074", "title": "Kola Norwegians", "text": "Kola Norwegians\n\nThe Kola Norwegians () were Norwegian settlers along the coastline of the Kola Peninsula in Russia.\n\nIn 1860 the Russian Tsar Alexander II granted permission for Norwegian settlements on the Kola. Around 1870, scores of families from Finnmark in northern Norway departed for the Kola coast, attracted by the prospects of fishing and trade. The Russian authorities granted them privileges to trade with Norway.\n\nMost of them settled in Tsyp-Navolok on the easternmost tip of the Rybachiy Peninsula (; – both terms meaning \"Fishermen's Peninsula\"). Others settled in Vaydaguba () at the northwestern tip – Cape Nemetskiy (, \"Cape German\") – of the same peninsula. A vibrant society developed, retaining contact with Norway, especially with the town of Vardø. Some settlers returned to Norway shortly after the Russian Revolution of 1917, but most of them remained at Tsyp-Navolok. In 1917 perhaps about 1000 lived on the Kola.\n\nOn 23 June 1940, Lavrenty Beria of the NKVD ordered the Murmansk Oblast, encompassing the entire Kola Peninsula, to be cleaned of \"foreign nationals\". As a result, the entire Norwegian population was deported for resettlement in the Karelo-Finnish SSR. Soon they had to move from there too, because of pressures caused by the Finnish invasion of the Soviet Union in 1941. In spring 1942, a large proportion died of starvation and malnutrition.\n\nDespite many having served in the Red Army, they were not allowed to return home to the Kola after the end of the Second World War. Many children were raised without learning to speak Norwegian.\n\nAfter 1992, some descendants of the original settlers began to emphasise their family backgrounds, although only a few had been able to maintain a rusty knowledge of the Vardø dialect of the Norwegian language. Some have now migrated to Norway. There are special provisions in Norwegian immigration law which ease this process, albeit generally being less permissive than those which pertain in other countries which operate a \"right of return\". In order to obtain a permit to move to Norway and work there, a foreign citizen must show an adequate connection to the country, such as having two or more grandparents who were born there. As for citizenship, it is awarded on the same basis as to anyone else — which basis includes the formal renunciation of the original citizenship. By 2004, approximately 200 Kola Norwegians had settled in Norway.\n\nIn 2007, the small village of Port-Vladimir, the last stronghold of the Kola Norwegians lost its official recognition due to depopulation. Only 98 individuals identified themselves as Norwegians in the 2010 census of Russia, including 20 in St. Petersburg, 11 in Murmansk, and 4 in Karelia.\n\n"}
{"id": "7865098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7865098", "title": "Languages of Andorra", "text": "Languages of Andorra\n\nThe following languages are spoken in the Principality of Andorra.\n\nCatalan is the only official language of Andorra. It is also the historical and traditional language of the country used by government, television, radio, and other national media and is the main language of all the people living in the territory of Andorran nationality, who constitute 33% of the total population.\n\nIt is also the main language of about 25% of Spanish immigrants (who constitute 43% of Andorra's population), usually those who immigrated since 1985 from nearby Catalonia or Valencia.\n\nRecently the Government of Andorra is enforcing the learning and use of the language within the immigrant labor force as a means to fully apply the constitution and overcome the issue of people living in a country without knowing its only native language. Despite vast incoming tourism from Spanish-speakers from Spain, both public and private signage in Andorra is mostly monolingual in Catalan.\n\nAndorra is the only country in which Catalan is the sole official language and the only country in which Catalan has official status in all of its territory.\n\nSpanish is the most important languange in Andorra after Catalan. It is the main language of about 70% of Spanish national immigrants (the remaining 5% speak Galician). Most came to the country between 1955 and 1985.\n\nThe low degree of development of Andorra, the limited education in the immigrants' homelands, and the fear of an invasion by Spain during the Franco regime made it more difficult for the immigrants to integrate fully until 1993, when the constitution of the country was approved. Since then, Spanish has become the second most used language of the population living in the country, and moreover is the dominant language of communication amongst people of different linguistic backgrounds—\"the language of the street\", thus triggering recent government efforts to promote more general and universal use of Catalan.\n\nSince Andorra also shares both Catalan and French education systems, children can learn Spanish if parents choose the Catalan option.\n\nThe traditional economic situation in Northern Portugal (Norte) prompted a large migration flux to the country between 1960 and 1980, increasing the Portuguese population to 11% of the total, which added to a small community of Brazilians which migrated to Andorra in the 1990s has led to a present-day lusophone population of about 13% of the country's total.\n\nThe nearby border with France, the reduced tax-free cost of living, and job opportunities in the thriving tourist industry have resulted in 7% of the country's total population being French nationals, mainly immigrants from Francophone Africa. It is the main language of communication next to Catalan in Pas de la Casa on the French border.\n\nAs with Spanish, children can be taught at school in the French language, if parents so choose.\n\n"}
{"id": "27271278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27271278", "title": "List of George Polk Award winners", "text": "List of George Polk Award winners\n\nThe George Polk Awards in Journalism are a series of American journalism awards presented annually by Long Island University in New York.\n"}
{"id": "10662675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10662675", "title": "List of Trinity College, Dublin student organisations", "text": "List of Trinity College, Dublin student organisations\n\nTrinity College has 49 sports clubs affiliated to the Dublin University Central Athletic Club. There is a very strong sporting tradition at Trinity; however, in recent years sporting prowess has diminished somewhat with most students engaging in sport for recreational purposes rather than for competitive reasons.\n\nThe Central Athletic Club is made up of five democratically elected committees who oversee the development of sport in the college: the Executive Committee is responsible for all activities; the Captains' Committee represents the 49 club captains and awards University Colours (Pinks), the Pavilion Bar Committee runs the private members' bar, the Pavilion Members' Committee and the Sports Facilities Committee.\n\nThe oldest clubs include the Dublin University Cricket Club (1835) and Dublin University Boat Club (1836). Dublin University Rifle Club was first founded in 1840 however the club under its current format was reconstituted in 1962. Dublin University Football Club which plays rugby football was founded in 1854 and is the world's oldest documented \"football club\". The Dublin University Hockey Club was founded in 1893. The Dublin University Harriers and Athletic Club was founded in 1885.\n\nThere are several graduate sport clubs that exist separate to the Central Athletic Club including the Dublin University Museum Players (cricket), the Lady Elizabeth Boat Club (rowing) and the Mary Lyons Memorial Mallets (croquet).\n\nTrinity College, Dublin has a very strong tradition of student publications, ranging from the serious to the satirical. All student publications are administered by the Dublin University Publications Committee (often known as 'Pubs') who maintain and administer the Publications room (located in House 6) and all the associated equipment needed to publish its newspapers and magazines.\n\nTrinity News is Ireland's oldest student newspaper having been first printed in 1947 and being in regular circulation since 1953. It is currently published on a fortnightly basis producing 12 issues in total during the academic year. The focus is on students with sections including College News, National News, International News, Features, Film, Music, Food and Drink, Science, Sports Features and College Sports (amongst others). The paper has been very successful in the Irish Student Media Awards in the past, winning each of the \"Newspaper of the Year\", \"Editor of the Year\" and \"Journalist of the Year\" numerous times in recent years. Currently the position of Editor of Trinity News is a sabbatical one which is widely believed to be a major factor in the newspaper's recent success.\n\nThe University Times is Trinity's newer student newspaper: founded in 2009, it was named Irish Student Newspaper of the Year in its first year, an award won by Trinity News in the three previous years. It is funded by Trinity College Dublin Students' Union but its Editorial Committee makes editorial decisions independently of the Union. It replaced the University Record.\n\nStudent magazines currently in publication include The Piranha (\"Private Eye\"/\"The Onion\" type satire), Tuathal (Irish-language magazine produced by An Cumann Gaelach which has been nominated for Irish Society Publication of the Year ) the generalist TCD Miscellany (one of Ireland's oldest magazines), the arts-orientated Icarus (magazine) and the recently launched film magazine Trinity Film Review. Other publications supported by the Dublin University Publications Committee include the Student Economic Review, which is a journal produced and organised by students of Economics, the Law Review and the Trinity Student Medical Journal as well as The Attic which is a collection of student writing produced by the Dublin University Literary Society, and The (Renegade) Rant and Rave, a literary criticism magazine. Some older titles currently not in publication include Central Review, Trinity Intellectual Times, The Afro-Caribbean Journal, Harlot, Evoke, and Alternate.\n\nTrinity College has a vibrant student life with 124 societies (in 2011). Student societies operate under the aegis of the Dublin University Central Societies Committee which is composed of the Treasurers of each of the Societies within the College. Society size varies enormously, and it is often hard to determine exact figures for most societies - several claiming to be the largest in the college with thousands of members, while smaller groups may have only 40-50 members.\n\nSituated within the Graduates Memorial Building is the oldest of Ireland's such societies, the University Philosophical Society (The Phil). Founded in 1683, the society has strong history in debating and paper-reading. Consequently over the past five centuries it has been addressed by the world’s pre-eminent thinkers and orators. The society meets each Thursday evening to debate motions of interest in the chamber of the Graduate Memorial Building. It counts among its Honorary Patrons multiple Noble Prize lauretes, Heads of State, notable actors, entertainers, well-known intellectuals, such as Al Pacino, Desmond Tutu, Sir Christopher Lee, Stephen Fry, and John Mearsheimer.\n\nAnother such society is the College Historical Society which shares the GMB, traces it foundation to 1770, meets each Wednesday evening of Term to debate motions in the chamber of the Graduate Memorial Building, has been addressed by many great orators including Winston Churchill and Ted Kenendy, and counts amongst its former members many of the most prominent men and women in Ireland's history.\n\nOther societies include Vincent de Paul Society (VDP), which organises a large number of charitable activities in the local community; DU Players, one of the most prolific student-drama societies in Europe which hosts more than 50 shows and events a year in the Samuel Beckett Theatre; The DU Film Society (Formerly DU Filmmakers, formerly the DU \"Videographic Society\", founded in 1987) which organises filmmakers and film-lovers on campus through workshops, screenings, production funding, etc.; The DU Radio Society, known as Trinity FM, broadcasts a variety of student made productions on a special events licence on FM frequency 97.3FM for six weeks a year; The Trinity LGBT society, which is the oldest LGBT society in Ireland and celebrated its 25th anniversary in the 2007/2008 year; The Dublin University Comedy Society, known as DU Comedy, hosts comedy events for its members and has hosted gigs on campus from comedians such as Andrew Maxwell, David O'Doherty, Neil Delamere and Colin Murphy; The Dance Society, known as dudance, provides classes in Latin and ballroom dancing, as well as running events around other dance styles such as swing dancing. In 2011 the Laurentian Society was revived. This society played a key role as a society for the few Catholic students who studied at Trinity while \"the Ban\" was still in force\n\nThe Students' Union's primary role is to provide a recognised representative channel between undergraduates and the University and College authorities. It represents both undergraduates and postgraduates in matters external to the university. The Executive, the Finance and Services Committee and Sabbatical Officers manage the business and affairs of the Union. The Sabbatical Officers are: The President, Communications Officer, Welfare Officer, Education Officer and Entertainments Officer and are elected on an annual basis; all capitated students are entitled to vote. The SU President, Welfare Officer and Education Officer are \"ex officio\" members of the College Board.\n\nThe Students' Union Communications Officer is responsible for the publication of the University Times (formerly the University Record), an editorially independent student newspaper, which is published every two weeks during term by the Students' Union. Though traditionally, the University Times has been seen to be the voice of the Trinity College Dublin Students’ Union, it has strived to remain as separate from the Union as possible. Many of the contributors are drawn from the ranks of class reps, though it is neither censored by TCDSU, nor do the Student's Union dictate its content.\n\nThe Graduate Students' Union's primary role is to provide a recognised representative channel between postgraduates and the University and College authorities. It primarily consists of two full-time officers, the President, and Vice-President. The GSU President is an \"ex officio\" member of the College Board. The Vice-President also acts as the GSU's Education and Welfare Officer.\nThe Graduate Students' Union publish the \"Journal of Postgraduate Research\" on an annual basis.\n\n\nThe Trinity College Dublin Literary Society, or LitSoc, is the foremost society for the creation and celebration of literature in Trinity College Dublin, with a constitutional aim \"to kindle and encourage a love of writing, literature and literary culture among the staff and students of Trinity College.\" Initially begun as a branch of the English Speaking Union, the society was revived in 1996 and changed its name to the Trinity Literary Society in 1998. LitSoc holds an average of two major events every week, in addition to regular writing workshops, book clubs, open mics and guest speakers, and is open for library hours daily from 12 to 3pm. The society was nominated for 6 awards at the CSC Society of the Year Awards Ceremony in March 2017, winning Best Online Presence, Best Medium Society and Overall Society of the Year.\n\n\"Dublin University Mathematical Society\", affectionately referred to as the \"Mathsoc\" by its members, was founded in 1923 and has had many famous members since its foundation, including Ireland's only Nobel Physics Laureate Ernest Walton who helped found it. The Mathsoc has a society room in college, in the School of Mathematics, which contains the Mathsoc library.\n\nTrinity LGBT, recently rebranded as Q Soc, is a society which supports the needs of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender students and their friends in Trinity College Dublin. The LGBT organises social and community events while offering help and support for LGBT students and providing a safe space for LGBT students on campus. \nTrinity College recognised the society in 1982 making it the oldest student LGBT society in Ireland. Trinity LGBT was founded in 1982 as \"Dublin University Gay Soc\", emerging directly from the Sexual Liberation Movement of David Norris and other Irish gay rights pioneers who were active in Trinity in the early 1970s.\nDU Traditional Music Society (TradSoc) promotes traditional Irish music, song and dance in the College. The society hosts regular informal music sessions and recitals, runs a Céilí Band and a Lilting Choir, as well as organizing trips to traditional music festivals in Ireland and the UK. The Society has received the awards of \"Most Improved Society\" (2015) and \"Best Small Society\" (2016) from the Central Societies Committee in recent years.\n\nTrinitones is an all-male acappella ensemble established in 2012 which is one of the four choirs which make up \"Trinity College Singers Society\", along with Trinity Singers, Boydell Singers and fellow acappella group, Trinity Belles. Established in 2012, the group have toured Ireland and Australia and have released several covers of popular songs, most notably a viral music video of an acappella arrangement of Teenage Dirtbage by Wheatus in 2013.\n\nTrinity College Fianna Fáil \"cumann\" (branch) is named in honour of Theobald Wolfe Tone. The Cumann was officially constituted in 1967 and was initially named in honour of Erskine Childers, but was renamed in 1998 in celebration of the bicentenary of the 1798 Rebellion. It hosts regular meetings and participates in campaigns in support of Fianna Fáil and Ógra Fianna Fáil. Notable former members of the Cumann who have since entered national politics in Ireland include Thomas Byrne, Seán Haughey, Jack Chambers, James Lawless, Averil Power, Mary Lou McDonald, Mary Harney and Dara Calleary.\n\nTrinity FM, originally created in 1998, is run by 10 full-time volunteers. It broadcasts everyday from 3pm to midnight during college term at 92.1 FM and online through the website trinityfm.org There are shows each hour that are all presented by Trinity students. Trinity FM also has an open mic week from 9am through to midnight Monday to Friday. This allows for extra shows to allow people who didn't get a regular show that month to have a show, and also to give new people a chance to try their hand at broadcasting. Trinity FM has collaborated with UNICEF and has organised acoustic sessions which take place throughout the year. Acts such as Miracle Bell, Frightened Rabbit, The Flaws and Mice Parade and Duke Special have performed. The radio station organises covered gigs with talented youth from various colleges in Dublin playing their favourite covers. The station has made connections with the European Parliament in Brussels. Several times a year different committee members and general members of the society get the opportunity to travel to the EU parliament to discuss the future of radio, politics, and how students can make a difference at special events hosted by the EU. In 2013 Trinity FM was awarded best medium society and best overall society at the Central Societies Committee annual ball.\n\nThe Dublin University Comedy Society (Comedy Soc.) hosts comedy events for its members and has hosted gigs on campus from comedians such as Andrew Maxwell, David O'Doherty, Neil Delamere and Colin Murphy. The society has existed in one form or another for many years, going under the name \"The Dead Parrot Society\" in the 1990s but experienced a massive resurgence in activity in 2007. The society signed up over 700 members in 2007, and over 2500 members in 2008 making them one of the largest student societies in Trinity that year. The society publishes a comedy magazine called Goldfish, runs stand-up comedy workshops, and a variety of themed nights out.\n\nThe University of Dublin Choral Society is the largest choir in Trinity College Dublin. It is also the oldest choral society among the universities of Great Britain and Ireland having been founded in 1837. The society performs two concerts each year, one at the end of each term. The tradition that members wear the formal academic gown for performances is upheld and concerts take place in the College Exam Hall and College Chapel.\n\nAn Cumann Gaelach, founded in 1907 by former President of Ireland Dubhghlas de hÍde.\n\nThe Biosoc is one of the largest societies in Trinity College Dublin. The main role of the Biosoc was originally to provide a forum of discussion in the field of Natural Science, however, over the years it began to change this role eventually becoming a social society for medical students. In this regard it has become well known, particularly in the running of the \"Med Day\" charity event every November, raising money for various university associated hospitals, including neonatal care in the Coombe and Rotunda, acute stroke care in St James's Hospital and breast cancer screening programme in AMNCH. This event has seen support from well known personalities, including rugby players Paul O'Connell and Jamie Heaslip. Other events run through the year include the Medical Ball, \"The Great Medical Debate\" and a pantomime, which makes fun of the various professors and consultants encountered in the medical school.\n\nDublin University Players which is one of the most prolific drama societies in Ireland, hosting up to 50 shows and events a year in its own theatre in the Samuel Beckett Centre. Famous ex-members of Players include the actress and writer Pauline McLynn (Mrs Doyle from Father Ted), as well as Sir Ian Laurence Byrne esq, Shane O'Reilly of 'Cinderella at the Gaiety' fame, Lord Patrick McKeating and, more recently, his brother Sir Dónal McKeating.\n\nNamed after John Joly, the Joly Geological Society was founded in 1960. As well as social events the society organises field trips.\n\nThe Laurentian Society is a society named after Saint Laurence O’Toole (Lorcán Ua Tuathail in gaelic), and concerned with relevant issues from a Catholic perspective. It existed with no interruptions between the academic years 1952-3 and 2001-2, being then the Catholic society of Trinity College. Back then, the society used to hold talks and was engaged in Charitable activities. It was revived as a cultural society in September 2011.\n\nThe Society for International Affairs (SoFIA) aims to promote the discussion of diplomacy and diplomatic affairs, to give visibility to current international affairs and provide a platform for discussion and networking. It also seeks to acquaint students with the activities and mechanisms of embassies and foreign affairs departments and, guide students considering a diplomatic career.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38104101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38104101", "title": "List of educational video games", "text": "List of educational video games\n\nThis is a list of notable educational video games.\n\nPopular educational games for children and adolescents\n\nPopular educational games for adults\n"}
{"id": "33052387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33052387", "title": "Madras Club", "text": "Madras Club\n\nMadras Club, or Adyar Club, is a gentleman's club in the city of Chennai, India. Founded in 1832, it is the second oldest of its kind in India.\n\nThe Madras Club was founded on 15 May 1832 as a European men-only club. Its first President was one H. Chamier. The Adyar Club was founded in 1890. In contrast to the Madras Club, the Adyar Club gave membership to women. Originally started as a Europeans-only club, the Adyar Club started admitting Indians as members in 1960. The two clubs merged in 1963 under the name \"Madras Club\". Since the merger, the Madras Club has been admitting Indians as its members.\n\nThe \"Civilian's South India\", in its 1921 issue, considered the Madras Club to be the best of its kind in the country\n\nThe \"Express Estate\", which now houses the Express Avenue shopping mall, was till 1947, the original home of the Madras Club. The club moved to Adyar in 1963 and is still based there.\n\n"}
{"id": "4331164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4331164", "title": "Mazari tribe", "text": "Mazari tribe\n\nMazari () is a Baloch tribe in Pakistan. Mazari is derived from the Balochi word mazar, which means \"Tiger\" in the Balochi language. Rojhan-Mazari, a town in the Rajanpur District of the Punjab near the inter-provincial borders of Balochistan, Sindh and Punjab, is the stronghold of the Mazari tribe.\n\nThe Mazari tribe is one of the oldest tribes of the Baloch.\nThe area the Mazaris conquered is still known as Tuman Mazari. It encompassed an area that included most of Kashmore District in Sindh, Tehsil Sadiqabad, Chatha Baksha Mazari District, Jhang and all of Tehsil Rojhan in Punjab. The arrival of the British saw the golden era for the Mazari tribe. The Chief ruled an area from the town of Bhong all the way to the Sulaiman mountain range and from Kashmore to Giamul. This is estimated to be an area of at least 8,000 km sq. The Mazaris continuously defeated, overwhelmed and annihilated the Nahars, Machis, Bugtis and Chandios and fought many battles against the Sikhs of Punjab who were the dominant power before the arrival of the British.\n\nIn 1836, Mithankot, by then a strong Sikh garrison fortress, was attacked by the Mazari Baloch tribal forces under the command of Sardar Karam Khan, the younger brother of the Mazari Chief, Sardar Mir Bahram Khan. The attack came as result of the constant threats of Maharaja Kharak Singh to Rojhan Mazari. The garrison was burnt to the ground. Any prisoners captured were skinned alive. Ranjit Singh retaliated by sending Diwan Sawan Mal, his governor of Multan to attack Rojhan. Rojhan was burnt. Despite this, casualties on the Mazari side were minimal as the Sikh army lost the element of surprise and the Mazaris were able to evacuate their city in time. They, then took refuge in the Suleiman mountains and continued to harass the Sikhs from there. This resulted in constant skirmishes between both the parties. According to book 'Tehreek e Mujahideen', after hearing about the bravery of Mazari's, Syed Ahmad Barelvi of Tehreek-e-Mujahidin, approached Sardar Karam Khan, at Kin and offered to fight jointly against Sikhs but he refused to accept the offer, after having consultation with his elder brother, Mir Fasih Khan. Afterwards, Diwan Sawan Mal invited Karam Khan to Multan where they entered to a mutual agreement which was to be ratified at Lahore.\n\nFinally, in 1838 Mir Bahram Khan visited Lahore with 12,000 Mazari tribesmen and officials on the invitation of the Maharaja Ranjit Singh. The Mazaris were well received by the Maharaja at the Lahore Fort and given a royal welcome. The Maharaja had the Mughal-era Naulakha Pavilion (Saman Burj) inside the Lahore Fort specially renovated for the month-long stay of Sardar Mir Bahram Khan Mazari. This meeting between the two leaders officially brought an end to the long war between the Mazari Baloch and the Sikh Empire that started with the attack on Mithankot. This picture of Mir Bahram Khan Mazari is in the Sikh War Gallery in Amritsar, India, and was painted by the personal French artist of Maharaja Ranjeet Singh's court when Mir Bahram Khan Mazari visited Lahore.\n\nThe area held by the tribe can be categorized as arid and as well as fertile. To the west of Rojhan-Mazari lie the Sulaiman Range and to the east flows the River Indus. Rainfall is scarce but heavy showers do occur 3-4 times every year which lead to hill torrents from the west. The climate is excellent for crops like cotton, wheat, rice, sugar cane etc. to grow.\n\nThe language which the Mazari tribe speaks is known as Sulimanki Balochi which is widely spoken in Rojhan Mazari, Kashmor and in other parts of Balochistan as well. Saraiki language is also widely understood in the Rojhan Mazari. Mazaris in Sindh speak Sindhi as well.\n\nHis Noble Majesty, Sir Nawab Mir Imam Buksh Khan Mazari was the second son of Mir Bahram Khan Mazari. Mir Dost Ali Khan, his elder brother, was the initial chieftain of the tribe but as he fell to dissipated habits, his younger more energetic brother, Imam Buksh Khan took charge of the tribe.\n\nLepel Griffin's book mentions Sir Nawab Imam Buksh Khan Mazari and his son Nawab Mir Bahram khan Mazari:\nRahim Yar Khan was the eldest son of Sardar Ali Akbar Khan Mazari and the grandson of Mir Bahram Khan. The British gave him the title of Khan Bahadur because of his tireless efforts in the service of the Empire. He was made the interim Tumandar/Chief of the tribe when Mir Murad Bukhsh Khan died and his son, Mir Balakh Sher Mazari, was still a minor.\n\nThe book describes him in the following words;\nMir Balakh Sher Mazari is the Chieftain (Tumandar) and the Paramount Sardar of the Mazari tribe. As the Chief of Mazaris he holds the title of Mir and also goes by the styles of Tumandar and Sardar. Mir Balakh Sher Mazari is the twenty-second Sardar and the seventh Mir of Mazaris. The eldest of three brothers, he has one surviving brother Sherbaz Khan Mazari who has played a prominent role in Pakistan politics. He himself is a former caretaker Prime Minister of Pakistan and has been elected to the National Assembly numerous times. He was born on 8 July 1928 to Mir Murad Buksh Khan Mazari, the twenty-first Sardar and the Sixth Mir of Mazaris. Initially Khan Bahadur Sardar Rahimyar Khan Mazari was made the care taker chieftain of the tribe as Mir Sahib, as he respectfully known as, was still a minor. Upon reaching age though, Mir Balakh Sher was formally acknowledged as the Chief, by the British government and tribal elders as well. His father, Mir Murad Buksh Khan Mazari had earlier succeeded his elder brother Mir Dost Muhammad Khan Mazari as the Chief. They were the sons of Mir Sher Muhammad Khan Mazari, the Nineteenth Sardar and Fourth Mir of Mazaris. Balakh Sher Mazari, after the completion of his education from Aitchison College in 1945 went on to live in Rojhan-Mazari, from where he joined active politics in 1951. He went on to enjoy a fruitful career in politics, which spanned over five decades, before eventually retiring and passing on his political legacy to his grandsons, Dost Muhammad Mazari and Sher Muhammad Mazari. He is still active in his tribal responsibilities and enjoys immense support from the entire Mazari tribe to this day.\n\nSherbaz Khan Mazari is the youngest son of Mir Murad Baksh Khan. He was born in Rojhan in 1930 and was educated in the Royal Indian Military College in Dehra doon and in Aitchison College\nSardar Sherbaz Khan Mazari entered politics by supporting Fatima Jinnah, sister of Mohammad Ali Jinnah, against Ayub Khan in the Presidential elections of 1964. In 1970, he was elected to the National Assembly as an independent candidate . He was a signatory to the 1973 Constitution, as head of the independent group in the Assembly. After the Bhutto-led army action in Balochistan and the subsequent banning of the National Awami Party, he formed the National Democratic Party. This was part of an effort to oppose Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto's autocratic rule as well as to bring about peace in Balochistan. He served as the leader of the NDP from 1975 to 1985 and the leader of the Opposition in Parliament from 1975-1977. A former friend of Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto, he became one of his main political opponents in the Pakistan National Alliance. The 1977 elections led to a civil agitation movement which ultimately ousted Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto's government and brought in Martial Law under General Zia.\n\nDuring General Zia's regime he again played a key role in opposing the military regime. He helped establish Movement for the Restoration of Democracy (MRD), an alliance of opposition parties which included the Pakistan Peoples Party. He spearheaded a movement against the military government as the Chairman of MRD's \"Pakistan Bachao \"(Save Pakistan )Committee. The resulting agitation caused widespread commercial disruption in Sindh and parts of Punjab and but was brutally suppressed by the army at a cost of many lives. It was only after Zia's death did democracy finally return to Pakistan.\nA strong believer of democracy Sardar Mazari was incarcerated on numerous occasions during both Zulfikar ali Bhutto and General Zia's rule. He was one of the few West Pakistani politicians to have opposed the army action in what was then East Pakistan against the Bengali's and the only opponent of Zulfikar Bhutto to have condemned his judicial murder. He was offered key political positions by Zulfikar Bhutto, Zia Ul Haq and later Benazir Bhutto but declined each one of them He has been an outspoken critic of the treatment meted out to Balochi separatists by the Central Government\n\nHe was defeated in the 1988 general elections due to differences within the Mazari tribe apparently engineered by \"the Establishment\" and retired from politics greatly disillusioned. In 1999, he wrote his memoir, \"A Journey to Disillusionment\".\n\nThe Mazari tribe consists of 4 large sub-clans and 60 small sub-tribes. The Mazari Chief family belongs to the Balachani clan. Other clans include Sargani, Gahlani, Gandi, Lolai, Esiani, Pyomaar, Rustamani, Sodvani, Lathani, Gulrani, Sillachi, Harwani etc.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1056961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1056961", "title": "Mojave phone booth", "text": "Mojave phone booth\n\nThe Mojave phone booth was a lone telephone booth in what is now the Mojave National Preserve in California, which attracted online attention in 1997 for its unusual location, at the intersection of two dirt roads in a remote part of the Mojave Desert, from the nearest paved road (Interstate 15 to the northeast, Kelbaker Road to the southwest) and miles from any buildings.\n\nThe phone booth was originally set up in 1948 to provide telephone service to local volcanic cinder miners and others living in the area, at the request of Emerson Ray, who owned the Cima Cinder Mine nearby. It was assigned the name Cinder Peak Policy Station, part of a network of \"policy stations\" placed by mandate of the California government to serve residents of isolated parts of the state. The Mojave phone booth probably replaced an earlier booth to the south. The original hand-cranked magneto phone was replaced with a payphone in the 1960s. The rotary phone was then replaced with a touch-tone model in the 1970s. The booth phone's original number was BAker-3-9969. After area codes were established in 1947, it shared the same area code as all of Southern California, 213. In 1951 the area code 714 was split off from 213, and 714 was the booth's area code until 1982, when parts of Riverside and San Bernardino counties were given the area code 619. The booth's area code for its final few years of existence was 760.\n\nIn 1997, a Los Angeles man spotted a telephone icon on a map of the Mojave and decided to visit it. He wrote a letter about his adventure to an underground magazine and included the booth's telephone number. An Arizona man, Godfrey Daniels, read the letter and started a website devoted to the Mojave telephone booth. The booth became an Internet sensation after it was mentioned in a New York Times article. Soon other people began calling the booth, others made websites about it, and a few even took trips to the booth to answer, often camping out at the site. Several callers kept recordings of their conversations. Over time, the booth became covered in graffiti left by visitors.\n\nThe booth was removed by Pacific Bell on May 17, 2000, at the request of the National Park Service. Per Pacific Bell policy, the phone number was retired. Officially, the removal was because of visitors' environmental impact on the national preserve, and a letter by the Mojave National Preserve's superintendent mentions confronting Pacific Bell with some long-forgotten easement fees. A headstone-like plaque was later placed at the site, but it too was eventually removed by the National Park Service. Fans of the booth feared that Pacific Bell had destroyed the booth, which was confirmed by Pac-Bell spokesperson Steve Getzug.\n\nThe story inspired the creation of an independent short film, \"Dead Line\", a short documentary, \"Mojave Mirage\", and a full-length motion picture, \"Mojave Phone Booth\". The booth was also an inspiration for the prologue of the Glenn Beck novel \"The Overton Window\", and is the subject of a 99% Invisible podcast episode, \"Mojave Phone Booth.\" In 2018, \"Adventures with the Mojave Phone Booth\" was published, a full-length book chronicling the booth's history, rise to fame, destruction, and aftermath.\n\nAT&T's PacBell no longer owns the Baker, California +1-760-733-9XXX block of one thousand numbers, having relinquished it to competitive local exchange carrier peerlessnetwork.com on March 28, 2013, as part of a number pooling scheme. The Mojave phone booth's number, 760-733-9969, was acquired from the CLEC by phone phreak Lucky225 on July 31, 2013 and now rings using voice over IP. Callers join a conference where strangers can once again connect just like when the phone booth was active. IRC over SMS was added for Defcon 22, IRC over Signal was added for Defcon 25 - and both are currently still working. One can send a message via SMS or Signal with SUBSCRIBE ALIAS to 760-733-9969 to join the group chat.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28598230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28598230", "title": "Motor Bus Society", "text": "Motor Bus Society\n\nThe Motor Bus Society (MBS) is a United States-based non-profit organization formed by a voluntary association of persons who share an interest in buses and bus transportation in North America and, in particular, the history of the same. Founded in 1948, it publishes the quarterly magazine, \"Motor Coach Age\", and holds a national convention semi-annually for its members. MBS is based in New Jersey and maintains a small, private library and historical archive for use by its members and \"serious researchers\", by appointment only, in central New Jersey.\n\nOriginally organized in 1948 as the National Motor Bus Association and later changing its name to the Motor Bus Society, Inc., the group's membership includes people working in the bus industry as well as bus enthusiasts, and some members fit both descriptions. Its newsletter soon developed into a regular magazine (see below). Every year since the early 1950s the association has held national membership conventions, in different cities across the United States and Canada. There are normally two conventions each year, in spring and fall, one held in the eastern U.S. (or eastern Canada) and the other in the western U.S. (or Canada). As of 2000, MBS had about 1,200 members. It is incorporated in New Jersey as a type-501(c)(3) tax-exempt, non-profit organization.\n\nThe Motor Bus Society's magazine, \"Motor Coach Age\" (\"MCA\") (ISSN 0739-117X), has been published since 1950. For one or two years prior to that, MBS circulated a simple mimeographed newsletter named \"Bus Ways\", but this was replaced in January 1950 by \"Motor Coach Age\", which included photographs. \"MCA\" was changed to a professional format in 1952, with 12- to 16-page issues. During a period of debate among members as to the society's direction, publication of the magazine became sporadic in the late 1950s, but became regular again in 1967, when a new editor, Albert E. Meier, took over that position. Issues thereafter were published monthly and were each 24 pages long. During the 1980s \"MCA\" publication was variably monthly or bimonthly, then bimonthly in the early 1990s. Since the beginning of 1995, the magazine has been a quarterly publication. Issue size varies between 24 and 56 pages, depending on the subject.\n\nAt least since 1967, the content of \"Motor Coach Age\" has always been focused on history, documenting in detail the histories of, for example, bus transportation in particular cities or particular operating companies, or the history of a specific bus manufacturer. Included whenever applicable are histories of electric trolley bus operation and trolley bus manufacturing.\n\nFrom July 1994 until the end of 2003 MBS also published \"Motor Coach Today\" (\"MCT\"), a quarterly magazine focusing on present-day operations rather than history.\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "3769588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3769588", "title": "Mottos and halls of the Livery Companies", "text": "Mottos and halls of the Livery Companies\n\nThe livery companies of the City of London are listed below in alphabetical order, rather than by their order of precedence. Most companies' mottos are double entendres or puns about their relevant trade, and many are in Latin. Where applicable, the location of the Company's livery hall is also shown:\n\n"}
{"id": "12840058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12840058", "title": "Moxo", "text": "Moxo\n\nThe Mojeños, also known as Moxeños, Moxos, or Mojos, are an indigenous people of Bolivia. They lived in south central Beni Department, on both banks of the Mamore River, and on the marshy plains to its west, known as the Llanos de Mojos. The Mamore is a tributary to the Madeira River in northern Bolivia.\n\nMojeños were traditionally hunter-gatherers, as well as farmers and pastoralists.. Jesuit missionaries established towns in the Mojos plains beginning in 1682, converting native peoples to Catholicism and establishing a system of social organization that would endure well beyond the expulsion of the Jesuits in 1767 . Mojeño ethnic identification derives from a process of ethnogenesis as a result of this encounter between a number of pre-existing ethnic groups in this mission environment. This process occurred in several different mission towns, resulting in distinct Mojeño identities, including Mojeño-Trinitarios (Trinidad mission), Mojeño-Loretanos (Loreto mission), Mojeño-Javerianos, and Mojeño-Ignacianos (San Ignacio de Moxos mission). They numbered some 30,000 in the first decade of the 20th century. Many Mojeño communities are affiliated with the Central de Pueblos Indígenas del Beni and/or the Central de Pueblos Étnicos Mojeños del Beni.\n\nIn addition to Spanish, many Mojeño people speak one of several indigenous languages, belonging to the Arawakan language family, including Ignaciano language. In many communities, the language is used in daily life and taught in beginning primary school grades. A dictionary of Ignaciano Mojeño has been published, and the New Testament was translated into the language in 1980.\n\nThey are also known as Mojos, Moxos or Moxeños.\n\nThe previous inhabitants of the region, which before the independence of Bolivia was a single territory called Mojos, were the aboriginal Itonama, Cayuvava, Canichana, Tacanam and Movima. Afterwards, the Moxos or the Moxeños arrived. The Moxos were from the Arawak ethnic group, an ethnic group which developed a more complex culture between the Amazon rainforest and Los Llanos (South America).\n\nFor unknown reasons, between the 15th Century B.C. and the 8th Century B.C., agricultural Arawak groups from the lowlands (present-day Surinam) abandoned their lands and migrated to the west and south, bringing with them a tradition of incised ceramics. The Moxos, who were part of this population stream, built irrigation canals and crop terraces as well as ritual sites. Thousands of years before the Common Era, the Arawak also migrated north and populated the islands of the Caribbean Sea. This slow expansion resulted in their arrival at the islands of Cuba and Hispaniola (present-day island of the Dominican Republic and Haiti).\n\nPottery pieces found in the countryside of the department of Santa Cruz, Bolivia, and even in the present-day precinct of the city Santa Cruz de la Sierra, reveal that the region was populated by an Arawak tribe (known as the Chané) with a ceramic-making culture.\n\nWriters such as Diego Felipe de Alcaya, tell of a group living between the last buttresses of the Andes Mountains and the central arm of the Guapay River. The communities all throughout this great plain region and along the banks of the river were established and allied under the superior command of a leader, whom Alcaya describes with the title of king. This king, called by the dynastic name of Grigotá, had a comfortable dwelling and wore a vividly-colored shirt. Chiefs (caciques), named as Goligoli, Tundi, and Vitupué, were subordinate to Grigotá and had control of hundreds of warriors.\n\nAs a result, the first Jesuits in Moxos encountered a developed, ancient civilization. Thousands and thousands of artificial hills up to 60 feet high dotted the landscape, along with hundreds of artificial rectangular ponds up to three feet deep, all part of a system of cultivation and irrigation. The people used the built-up high ground for farming and dug canals to unite ponds and rivers that caught water in this flood-prone region.\n\nAll these architectural and structural masterpieces can be attributed to the ancestors of the present-day Moxeños, who include the Arawak, the most extensive ethnic group in the area. The Moxos language belongs to a language family called Arawakan. The Arawak have always been famous architects, and indeed the great hydraulic works (dated to ca. 250 CE) of their ancient empire is located in the territory of Moxos.\n\nEven today one speaks of the \"Amazonian cultures\" as a block, despite the differences between the various peoples. The Amazonian cosmos includes a tripartite world: the sky above, the earth here, and the underworld below. These cultures believe that the earth is controlled by a father creator, in collaboration with created spirits or dueños, masters, of places or things and with ancestors who help to maintain justice and balance. Slipping from the norm brings about a spiritual sickness that is cured by a communal search for the cause and by a variety of religious rituals, including prayers and natural remedies. In Moxos the principal dueños are the spirits of the jungle (connected with the tiger) and of the water (connected with the rainbow). Many rich dances renew the life of the community and the universe.\n\nJesuit priests arriving from Santa Cruz de la Sierra began evangelizing native peoples of the region in the 1670s. They set up a series of missions near the Mamoré River for this purpose beginning with Loreto. The principal mission was established at Trinidad in 1686.\n\nThe Jesuit missionaries who first encountered the Moxeños found a people with a strong belief in God as father and creator. The Jesuits accepted in their catechism the names the indigenous peoples gave to God in their own languages, trying to embrace all aspects of the culture not contrary to Christian faith or custom.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2305323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2305323", "title": "National Emergency Number Association", "text": "National Emergency Number Association\n\nThe National Emergency Number Association (NENA) is an organization whose mission it is to foster the technological advancement, availability, and implementation of a universal emergency telephone number system in the United States. In carrying out its mission, NENA promotes research, planning, training and education. The protection of human life, the preservation of property and the maintenance of general community security are among NENA's objectives.\n\nOne of NENA's main functions is to grade the quality of the 9-1-1 (the Universal Emergency Number since 1968) services that exist throughout the United States of America. Through their Report Card to the Nation (RCN), the RCN Commission reviews and grades the performance of 9-1-1 centers based on their established standards of practice. \nNENA is tracking the deployment of Enhanced 9-1-1 and the Wireless Phase 1 and 2 initiatives. The latter are enabling 9-1-1 call takers to (in Phase 1) identify the cell tower related to the caller and (in Phase 2) to identify the actual geographic location of the caller.\n"}
{"id": "33488383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33488383", "title": "Nen language", "text": "Nen language\n\nThe Nen language, Tunen (\"Banen\"), is a Southern Bantoid language of Cameroon. Maho (2009) considers Aling'a to be a distinct language.\n"}
{"id": "32319731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32319731", "title": "Operation AntiSec", "text": "Operation AntiSec\n\nOperation Anti-Security, also referred to as Operation AntiSec or #AntiSec, is a series of hacking attacks performed by members of hacking group LulzSec and BlackSec, the group Anonymous, and others inspired by the announcement of the operation. LulzSec performed the earliest attacks of the operation, with the first against the Serious Organised Crime Agency on 20 June 2011. Soon after, the group released information taken from the servers of the Arizona Department of Public Safety; Anonymous would later release information from the same agency two more times. An offshoot of the group calling themselves LulzSecBrazil launched attacks on numerous websites belonging to the Government of Brazil and the energy company Petrobras. LulzSec claimed to retire as a group, but on 18 July they reconvened to hack into the websites of British newspapers \"The Sun\" and \"The Times\", posting a fake news story of the death of the publication's owner Rupert Murdoch.\n\nAnonymous released their first cache of the operation on 27 June 2011, taken from an anti-cyberterrorism program run by the United States Department of Homeland Security and Federal Emergency Management Agency. They continued attacks on the Arizona government. They also launched attacks against the governments of Brazil, Zimbabwe, and Tunisia. Their most recent attacks have been against large corporations, NATO, and various United States law enforcement websites. Anonymous has used the stolen credit card numbers of police officers to make unauthorized donations to various causes. Others have also committed hacks in the name of the operation, including a hack into the Fox News Twitter account to post a false news story about the assassination of President of the United States Barack Obama and attacks on the websites of government entities in various countries. The groups involved have published sensitive government and corporate information, as well as the email addresses, names, and social security numbers, and credit card numbers of website users.\n\nLaw enforcement has launched investigations into many of the attacks committed as part of Operation AntiSec. At least seven arrests have been made in connection to activities related to the operation, including the arrests of two purported LulzSec members, a man who provided LulzSec with security vulnerability information, and four alleged members of AntiSec NL, a group inspired by the operation.\n\nThe LulzSec hacking group formed in May 2011 and came to international prominence after hacking the websites of the Public Broadcasting Service, Sony, and the United States Senate. Initially, the group claimed to hack \"for the lulz\" and to enjoy the chaos that follows their intrusions. However, on 20 June 2011, the group announced that they were teaming up with hacking collective Anonymous for a series of attacks they dubbed Operation Anti-Security or Operation AntiSec. The press release accompanying the beginning of the operation called for supporters to steal and publish classified government documents under the name AntiSec. Major banks and corporations were also mentioned as potential targets. Though LulzSec disbanded as a group on 26 June 2011, members have been reported to be continuing the operation from within Anonymous.\n\nThe groups involved claim that the operation aims to protest government censorship and monitoring of the internet. LulzSec members also mention ending what they believe are corrupt racial profiling and copyright laws as a goal of the operation. The War on Drugs has also been given as a reason for particular hacks. In contrast, USA Today described the operation as cyberwarfare targeting governments and large corporations.\n\nLulzSec launched the first attacks of the operation against the Serious Organised Crime Agency, the national law enforcement agency of the United Kingdom that handles cybercrime. The group launched a distributed denial-of-service attack against the agency's website on 20 June, taking it offline for only a few minutes. On the same day, they knocked the website of the Jianhua District in Qiqihar, China offline.\n\nOn 23 June, the group released a large cache of documents taken from the servers of the Arizona Department of Public Safety. The release, titled \"chinga la migra\", roughly translating to \"fuck the border patrol\", including email addresses and passwords and hundreds of documents marked \"sensitive\" or \"for official use only\". The group claimed that they did so in retaliation for the passage of Arizona SB 1070, a law they saw as leading to unjust racial profiling. Arizona complained that the release of officer identities and the personal information of their families could put them and their families in danger and gave those exposed security protection. In response, they mobilized the Arizona Counter Terrorism Information Center and locked remote access of Department of Public Safety email accounts.\n\nOn 25 June 2011, the group released what they described as their last dump of the operation. The release contained a large amount of information from varied sources. Included was information from numerous companies, including half a gigabyte of data from telecommunications company AT&T and IP addresses from Sony, Viacom, Disney, EMI, and NBC Universal. The AT&T portion included information pertaining to the release of the 4G LTE, 90,000 personal phones used by IBM, and the development of the iPad 3. It also contained over 750,000 usernames and password combinations, including 200,000 from hackforums.net, 12,000 from the NATO online bookstore, 500,000 from the online video game Battlefield Heroes, 50,000 from various video game forums, and 29 from Irish private investigation company Priority Investigations. Finally, an internal manual for AOL engineers and a screencapture of the United States Navy website navy.mil after being vandalized.\n\nOn 22 June, an offshoot of the group calling themselves LulzSecBrazil took down the website of the Government of Brazil, brasil.gov.br, and the President of Brazil, presidencia.gov.br. They also targeted the website of Brazilian energy company Petrobras. On 24 June, they claimed to publish access codes and passwords to the Petrobras website along with personnel profiles. However, the company denied that any information had been stolen, and the group removed the claim from their Twitter feed a few hours later. The group also published the personal information of President of Brazil Dilma Rousseff and Mayor of São Paulo Gilberto Kassab.\n\nDespite claiming to have retired, on 18 July LulzSec hacked into the website of British newspaper \"The Sun\". The group redirected the newspaper's website to an also-hacked redesign website of another newspaper \"The Times\", altering the site to resemble \"The Sun\" and posting a fake story claiming that Rupert Murdoch had died after ingesting a fatal dose of palladium. They objected to the involvement of News Corporation, the Murdoch-owned company that publishes \"The Sun\" and \"The Times\", in a large phone hacking scandal. The hacked website also contained a webcomic depicting LulzSec deciding on and carrying out the attack. The group later redirected \"The Sun\" website to their Twitter feed. News International released a statement regarding the attacks before having the page the statement appeared on also redirected to the LulzSec Twitter page and eventually taken offline. The group also released the names and phone numbers of a reporter for \"The Sun\" and two others associated with the newspaper and encouraged their supporters to call them. The group further included an old email address and password of former News International executive Rebekah Brooks. News Corporation took the websites offline as a precaution later in the day.\n\nOn 27 June 2011, Anonymous published information relating to the Cyberterrorism Defense Initiative's Security and Network Training Initiative and National Education Laboratory program, or Sentinel program, an operation run by the United States Department of Homeland Security and Federal Emergency Management Agency. The hack included information that the agency distributed in 2009 and contained resources on publicly available hacking software, a list of Federal Bureau of Investigation bureau locations, details on counter-hacking tools, and form letters that law enforcement agencies used to obtain user details from internet service providers.\n\nOn 28 June, the group released the second collection of documents stolen from the Arizona Department of Public Safety during Operation Anti-Security. Dubbed \"Chinga la Migra Communique Dos\", or \"Fuck the Border Patrol Message Two\", the data file contained the names, addresses, phone numbers, internet passwords, and social security numbers of a dozen Arizona police officers. It also contained the emails, voicemails, chat logs of some of them; in at least one instance it included sexually explicit photographs from one of the officer's girlfriends. Anonymous also claimed that the documents included officers forwarding racist chain emails, evidence of K-9 unit officers using percocet, and a Fraternal Order of Police member who is also a convicted sex offender. Anonymous noted that their motivation stemmed from a desire to make police officers \"experience just a taste of the same kind of violence and terror they dish out on an every day basis.\"\n\nOn the same day, the group released information obtained from various government sources. Government data from Anguilla, passwords from servers belonging to the Government of Brazil, the users of Zimbabwe government websites, and data from the Municipality of Mosman council were included. The Mosman council dump included mainly publicly available information from the website as well as a not-publicly-available prototype version of the website that had not yet been launched. They claimed to also have access to all Zimbabwean government websites ending in gov.zw. Most of the information and control were given through SQL injection. Anonymous claimed they targeted Brazil for what they saw as data manipulation and Zimbabwe for the controversial 2008 Zimbabwean presidential election. They also gained control of a website belonging to the Government of Tunisia. They replaced the webpage with a graphic representing Anonymous with text reading \"The Internet is the last frontier and we will not let corrupt governments spoil it. We are Anonymous, We are LulzSec, We are People from around the world who are stepping in the name of freedom\". The release also included a file containing internal mapping of Viacom servers as well as passwords and data from umusic.com, a website of Universal Music Group. They also released the names of 2,800 members of the Black Eagles paramilitary group.\n\nOn 1 July, Anonymous once again targeted Arizona law enforcement by publishing a number of backdoors that could be used to access Arizona police servers to Pastebin. Arizona was forced to pull many websites offline for a time. Websites affected included those of the Department of Public Safety and Mariposa chapter of the Fraternal Order of Police. They also claimed to have found \"anti-Muslim\" emails during the attack.\n\nOn 3 July, Anonymous hacked into the database of the Democratic Party of Orange County, Florida. They published a partial membership list and a handbook for precinct committee members. The hack was also considered part of the group's OpOrlando plan.\n\nOn 4 July, Anonymous released a document containing 27 administrative usernames and passwords from an Apple Inc. system used to operate online technical support follow-up surveys. The encrypted passwords were taken from an SQL database.\n\nAnonymous launched what it dubbed \"Turkish Takedown Thursday\" on 6 July. They posted internal data from over one hundred .tr websites and brought down and replaced the content of 74 of them. The 74 sites had their normal pages replaced with an Antisec logo and a message denouncing supposed attempts at internet censorship by the Turkish government. Websites affected included that of a children's hospital, but not of any key government agencies. On the same day, the group released database dumps taken from 20 universities in Italy. Two days later, Italian police arrested 15 alleged members of Anonymous ranging in age from 15 to 28. The group vowed revenge for the raids.\n\nOn 8 July, the group claimed responsibility for hacks against IRC Federal, an engineering firm that contracts with the Federal Bureau of Investigation and other agencies of the United States federal government. Internal database documents and personnel email were stolen during the attack. The group also claimed to have vandalized the firm's website and forcing them to take it offline. The group says that in the documents procured, they found a proposal to the FBI for the firm to produce a \"Special Identities Modernization (SIM) Project\" that would help identify those who might present a criminal or terrorist risk in the future, fingerprinting contracts with the United States Department of Justice, and biometrics contracts with the military. They also claimed to have obtained information allowing them to log into various virtual private networks and access panels belonging to the United States Department of Energy. They also sent a message to company employees urging them to work against the government rather than for it. The hack was done with a simple SQL injection.\n\nOn 11 July, Anonymous hacked into systems belonging to defense contractor Booz Allen Hamilton, breaking through barriers that the group described as having \"no security measures in place.\" They released what they said were 90,000 email accounts and encrypted passwords from United States Central Command, United States Special Operations Command, the United States Marine Corps, the United States Air Force, the United States Department of Homeland Security, United States Department of State, and various private sector contractors, calling the released \"Military Meltdown Monday\". They also sarcastically posted an invoice charging the company for \"security audit services rendered\". Despite Anonymous' claims that 90,000 emails were released, the Associated Press counted only 67,000 unique emails, of which only 53,000 were military addresses. The remainder of the addresses came from educational institutions and defense contractors. The Department of Defense said they were aware of the incident and were coordinating with other agencies for a response. Booz Allen confirmed the intrusion on 13 July, but contradicted Anonymous' claims in saying that the attack never got past their own systems, meaning that information from the military should be secure.\n\nOn 12 July, the group attacked the web servers of agricultural biotechnology company Monsanto and released information on the company's employees, including names, addresses, and email addresses. The group claimed they performed the attack to protest the company's lawsuits against farmers who manufacture organic milk in an effort to stop them from stating on the label that their milk does not contain artificial Bovine Growth Hormones. Monsanto confirmed the attack but claimed that only about ten percent of the information published came from current or former employees of the company. They said that the other ninety percent were email addresses and names of media contacts and employees of other agricultural companies.\n\nOn 21 July, Anonymous released two PDFs purportedly taken from servers belonging to NATO. They claimed via Twitter to have obtained around one gigabyte of data that they would release portions of over the course of a few days. The group claimed that some of the data was so sensitive that they felt it would be irresponsible to release, and thus would only make a portion of what was taken available. The first two documents released relate to outsourcing communication and information services (CIS) in Kosovo and the funding request for the project.\n\nThe Austrian branch of Anonymous hacked the website of the Austrian Gebühren Info Service, the television license agency run by the Austrian national public service broadcaster, on 22 July. They accessed 214,000 records containing personal information and stole the banking data of 96,000 people from the server. The counter-terrorism bureau of the country launched an investigation and were preparing to file criminal complaints against those involved.\n\nOn 25 July, first posted confidential information that they claimed came from the Italian Centro Nazionale Anticrimine Informatico per la Protezione delle Infrastrutture Critiche, translated as the National Anti-Crime Computer Center for Critical Infrastructure Protection, an agency tasked with protecting vital computer systems for the country. The Twitter account @anonesc posted less than 100 megabytes of data, but they claimed to have taken over eight gigabytes. The data related to oil, nuclear, and other firms deemed to be involved in \"critical infrastructure\", as well as government agencies including the Department of Defence of Australia.\n\nOn 29 July, Anonymous hacked the FBI-contractor ManTech International. They posted a PDF of a résumé sent into the company as proof that they had infiltrated their systems. Anonymous claimed that the attack would be the first part of a promised \"Fuck FBI Friday\", or FFF, campaign as part of the larger Operation AntiSec. They published 400 megabytes of content from the company later the same day. The internal documents generally concern contracts that ManTech has with NATO, the nature of which Anonymous claims shows a waste of taxpayer money. The files also include dealings with the United States Army and a list of employee emails.\n\nOn 31 July, Anonymous attacked the websites of 77 different law enforcement websites hosted on the same server. As much as 10 gigabytes of data was taken, including the personal information of police officers from numerous jurisdictions. Emails were also taken, as well as the confidential information of inmates and confidential informants, though not released yet. Anonymous said that they would redact inmate names but would release the names of all \" informants who had the false impression that they would be able to ‘anonymously’ snitch in secrecy.\" The release also included a demand that all arrested members of Anonymous be released immediately. Some of the information released, however, was already publicly available. They proceeded to release the social security numbers of over 100 police officers from the Missouri Sheriffs' Association website. The following Saturday, 6 August, they released a cache of data from the websites title \"Shooting Sheriffs Saturday Release\" which included the information taken from law enforcement websites. Large amounts of personal information was included, with Anonymous stating, \"We have no sympathy for any of the officers or informants who may be endangered by the release of their personal information. For too long they have been using and abusing our personal information.\" Anonymous claimed that their motive was revenge over the arrests of a number of participants in previous operations and of LulzSec and Anonymous member Topiary. They also used stolen credit card numbers to make donations to the American Civil Liberties Union, Electronic Frontier Foundation, and the Chelsea Manning Support Network.\n\nOn 16 August, Anonymous gained access to the email account of Richard Garcia, former Assistant Director in Charge of the FBI field office in Los Angeles and Senior Vice President of Vanguard Defense Industries, in the name of AntiSec. They claimed that the firm's relationships with United States military and law enforcement organizations made it a legitimate target as part of the operation. They also claimed to have breached the company's website, which was run on a WordPress platform, though the company says that their website was never affected. The group released 1 gigabyte of information three days later, all of it taken from Garcia's personal email account; it mainly related to Garcia's former role with InfraGard.\n\nIn retaliation for arrests of people who allegedly participated in Operation AntiSec, and especially Topiary, Anonymous attacked the website of the Texas Police Chiefs Association. On 1 September, the group defaced the website and released documents from it marked \"law enforcement sensitive\" and \"for official use only\". The release also included police officer private email. The same day, the group brought down the website of the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit for the justice system's characterization of Anonymous activities as \"cyber-terrorism\".\n\nOn 21 October, announced a dump of data related to law enforcement in support of the Occupy Wall Street and Occupy movement. The dump including data taken from the International Association of Chiefs of Police, Boston Police Patrolmen's Association, and the Sheriff's office of Baldwin County, Alabama. A number of police websites virtually hosted together also had their content replaced with an anti-police rap video. The dump 600 megabytes of information including membership rosters, internal documents, and social security numbers from the International Association of Chiefs of Police; nearly 1000 names, ranks, addresses, phone numbers, and social security numbers of police officers in Jefferson County, Alabama and Birmingham, Alabama; 1000 names and passwords of members of the Boston Police Patrolmen's Association; and the financial information and client list of web developer and marketing company Matrix Group, a business with several law enforcement clients. AntiSec claimed that at least 40 law enforcement related websites were included in the attack.\n\nOn November 18, 2011, Anonymous posted 38,000 email messages from the Gmail account of Alfredo \"Fred\" Baclagan, a special agent supervising computer crime investigations with the California Department of Justice and the Computer and Technology Crime Hightech Response Team, to a site on Tor and to The Pirate Bay. They also added what they claimed were Baclagan's personal home address and phone number. The group claimed the action as part of their attack on law enforcement in support of the Occupy movement and in protest for prosecution of computer criminals in general. They also claimed to have read his text messages, listened to his voicemail, and used his Google Voice account to call and text his friends and family. They also purchased a camera using his Google Wallet. The release includes forensic experts discussing techniques for tracking cybercriminals and how different companies respond to law enforcement requests for information.\n\nOn 4 September 2012, 1 million unique device IDs for Apple products were published by a group associated with Anonymous. The group claimed that the 1 million IDs were part of a dataset of 12.36 million records taken from an FBI laptop. The FBI responded by saying they were not aware of any unauthorized data release.\n\nAccording to an Ars Technica article published on September 10:\nA digital publishing company named BlueToad has come forward to take responsibility for the leak of a million iOS unique device identifiers (UDIDs) that were previously attributed to an alleged FBI laptop hack. In a number of interviews published Monday, BlueToad apologized to the public for the incident, explaining that hackers had broken into the company's systems in order to steal the file.\n\nThe original announcement of Operation Anti-Security included a call from LulzSec to spread the name \"AntiSec\" through physical graffiti. A few days after, a number of locations in Mission Beach, San Diego were vandalized with pieces of graffiti reading the phrase.\n\nOn 4 July, a Fox News Twitter account (@foxnewspolitics) was hacked and false tweets reporting that President of the United States Barack Obama has been shot three times and killed were sent from the account. The Script Kiddies, a group with close ties to Anonymous including two hackers with former membership in the group, claimed responsibility for the attack and hoax. The group claimed that the action was in the name of Operation Anti-Security and that they would continue looking to expose information on corporations \"to assist with antisec.\" The United States Secret Service is investigating the incident as a threat on the President. The group subsequently hacked into the Facebook page of pharmaceutical company Pfizer, claiming they did so for \"moral reasons\" as part of AntiSec. They posted numerous messages to the company's Facebook wall mocking their security.\n\nOn 4 July, someone going by the name f1esc posted a file to The Pirate Bay containing 600 megabytes of information described as national \"AU election data\" and labelled with the tag #Antisec. In reality, the data concerned the 2011 New South Wales state election and was taken from a government website designed to provide election results where the data was publicly available, and the data proved freely accessible information instead of a hack.\n\nIn early July, the group RedHack hacked into and defaced over 1000 websites based in Turkey. They claimed to do so both to mark the anniversary of the Sivas massacre and as part of Operation Anti-Security. The websites belonged both to agencies of the Government of Turkey and Adnan Oktar, an Islamic creationist. The group vowed to continue contribution to the AntiSec operation.\n\nOn 6 July, a hacker called p0keu released of around 2,658 usernames, passwords hidden behind hash functions, and email addresses from the blog TamilCanadian.com. He gave no reason for why he chose the website to attack other than that he did so under the AntiSec label. On 14 July, he leaked part of the Stevens Institute of Technology website database. At least 31 of the records in the database contained plain text files with email addresses, user names, and passwords of site users. p0keu posted the user information to Pastebin. p0keu has continued hacking, but has not labelled all of his releases with the AntiSec slogan.\n\nIn the Netherlands, a splinter group inspired by LulzSec formed, calling themselves AntiSec NL. The group hacked into the websites of online dating service pepper.nl and software company Nimbuzz. Four people believed by police to be members were later arrested.\n\nOn 24 July, a group called BashCrew hacked the website of the House of Representatives of the Philippines in the name of AntiSec. The names, telephone numbers, and email addresses of members of the Filipino Congress were released via Pastebin, with the group claiming that they may also release blood types and the private websites of some members.\n\nA hacker going by the name Thehacker12, a self-purported AntiSec supporter but not a member of Anonymous, released data stolen from event management company allianceforbiz.com on 24 August 2011 on Mediafire and Pastebin. The release contained a spreadsheet of usernames, email addresses, passwords, employers, and other information of around 20,000 people, many of them United States government employees or contractors. The organization with the most employees compromised was the Small Business Administration.\n\nLaw enforcement agencies in various countries have arrested or searched the property of alleged participants in Operation AntiSec. These suspects have come from different groups who carried out attacks as part of the operation. On 19 July 2011, the London Metropolitan Police announced the arrest of possible core LulzSec member T-flow. A 16-year-old male was arrested in South London on charges of violating the Computer Misuse Act as part of an operation involving the arrest of several other hackers affiliated with Anonymous in the United States and United Kingdom. On the same day, the FBI arrested 21-year-old Lance Moore in Las Cruces, New Mexico. He was accused of stealing thousands of documents and applications from AT&T that LulzSec published as part of their so-called \"final release\" of the operation. LulzSec denied that any of their membership had been arrested, stating \"there are six of us, and we're all still here.\"\n\nOn 20 July, prosecutors in the Netherlands released details of the arrests of four suspects aged 17, 18, 25, and 35. All were located in different Dutch cities and accused of being part of the hacking group AntiSec NL, an operation participant inspired by LulzSec. The four, going by the online handles Ziaolin, Calimero, DutchD3V1L, and Time, were arrested on 19 July and their computers and electronic equipment confiscated as evidence. Prosecutors identified the suspects after computer security company Fox-IT helped them gain access to a chat channel thought to be used by the group.\n\nThe Police Central E-Crime Unit arrested an 18-year-old man from Shetland on 27 July 2011 suspected of being LulzSec member Topiary. They also searched the house of and interviewed a 17-year-old from Lincolnshire possibly connected to the investigation. Scotland Yard later identified the man arrested as Yell, Shetland resident Jake Davis. He was charged with unauthorized access of a computer under the Computer Misuse Act 1990, encouraging or assisting criminal activity under the Serious Crime Act 2007, conspiracy to launch a denial-of-service attack against the Serious Organised Crime Unit contrary to the Criminal Law Act 1977, and criminal conspiracy also under the Criminal Law Act 1977. Police confiscated a Dell laptop and a 100-gigabyte hard drive that ran 16 different virtual machines. Details relating to an attack on Sony and hundreds of thousands of email addresses and passwords were found on the computer. A London court released Davis on bail under the conditions that he live under curfew with his parents and have no access to the internet. His lawyer Gideon Cammerman stated that, while his client did help publicize LulzSec and Anonymous attacks, he lacks the technical skills to have been anything but a sympathizer.\n\nIn early September 2011, Scotland Yard made two further arrests relating to LulzSec. Police arrested a 24-year-old male in Mexborough, South Yorkshire and a 20-year-old male in Warminster, Wiltshire. The two are accused of conspiring to commit offenses under the Computer Misuse Act of 1990; police said that the arrests related to investigations into LulzSec member Kayla.\n\nOn 6 March 2012, two men from Great Britain, one from the United States, and two from Ireland were charged in connection to their alleged involvement with LulzSec. The FBI revealed that supposed LulzSec leader Hector Xavier Monsegur, who went by the username Sabu, had been aiding law enforcement since pleading guilty to twelve counts, including conspiracy and computer hacking, on 15 August 2011 as part of a plea deal. In exchange for his cooperation, federal prosecutors agreed not to prosecute Monsegur for his computer hacking, and also not to prosecute him for two attempts to sell marijuana, possession of an illegal handgun, purchasing stolen property, charging $15,000 to his former employer's credit card in a case of identity theft, and directing people to buy prescription drugs from illegal sources. He still faces a misdemeanor charge of impersonating a federal agent. Five suspects were charged with conspiracy: Jake Davis, accused of being the hacker \"Topiary\" (who had been previously arrested); Ryan Ackroyd of London, accused of being \"Kayla\"; Darren Martyn of Ireland, accused of being \"pwnsauce\"; Donncha O’Cearrbhail of Ireland, accused of being \"palladium\"; and Jeremy Hammond of Chicago, accused of being \"Anarchaos\". While not a member of LulzSec, authorities suspect Hammond of being a member of Anonymous and charged him with access device fraud and hacking in relation to his supposed involvement in the December 2011 attack on intelligence company Stratfor as part of Operation AntiSec.\n\n"}
{"id": "22591029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22591029", "title": "Polygamy in Indonesia", "text": "Polygamy in Indonesia\n\nPolygamy is legal in Indonesia, the largest Muslim population in the world. Polygamy in Indonesia is not just practiced by Muslims, but also customarily done by non-Muslim minorities, such as the Balinese and the Papuans.\nA Muslim man may take up to four wives. As allowed by Islam, a man may take more than one wive as long as he treats them equally and can financially support them all. Despite such religious legality, polygamy has faced some of the most intense opposition than any other nation with the majority consisting of Muslims. Recent restrictions have brought about harsher penalties for unlawfully contracted polygamous unions and polygamy is said to be on the decline. Indonesian military personnel are only permitted to practice polygamy if their religion allows it. Additionally, he must prove to the government that his first wife is unable to carry out her duties as a wife. \n\nPolygamy under Balinese Hinduism is sanctioned and unrestricted, but the marriage is regulated by \"adat\" (traditional customs). Although polygamous marriages are practiced in Bali, the nature of Hindu polygamy has not been included in the national marriage law debates. The native inhabitants of West Papua and Papua have been practicing polygamy long before the arrival of Christian missionaries. The Papuans who choose to still practice polygamous marriages after being Christians usually conduct the \"adat\" marriages instead of the church one.\n\nOn a separate note, a study found that polygamous politicians are overwhelmingly less likely to gain female votes than monogamous politicians.\n\nIn late April 2008, a rally of Indonesian women led a protest against the nation's laws allowing for polygamy and polygamous marriages; urging the government to enact a complete ban over such marriages. Male Indonesian politicians were found to be largely opposed, and such a ban has yet to take place.\n"}
{"id": "113190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=113190", "title": "Posthumous name", "text": "Posthumous name\n\nA posthumous name is an honorary name given to royalty, nobles, and sometimes others, in East Asia after the person's death, and is used almost exclusively instead of one's personal name or other official titles during their life. The posthumous name is commonly used when naming royalty of China, Korea, Vietnam, and Japan.\n\nPosthumous names in China and Vietnam were also given to honor lifetime accomplishments of many people who did not have hereditary titles – for example, to successful courtiers.\n\nA posthumous name should not be confused with the era name and temple name.\n\nThe posthumous name consists of one or more adjectives inserted before the ruler's current title. As rulers from different states might share the same posthumous name, but rulers \"within\" a state would usually not repeat an already used name, the name of the state or domain is usually also given to avoid ambiguity. In Chinese the whole construct is therefore \"[state][adjective][title]\", which in English is typically translated as \"[title][adjective] of [state]\", such as King Wen of Zhou, Duke Mu of Qin, and King Cheng of Chu. The literal meaning of the adjective is normally not translated.\n\nWhile the names of living Chinese can be just about any combination of characters, the posthumous name was chosen from a rather small pool of stock characters; the literal meaning of which eroded as a result.\n\nEarly mythological rulers such as Emperor Yao are considered to have posthumous names. All rulers of Shang Dynasty are known only by their posthumous names, as their personal names were not recorded in classical texts.\n\nArchaeological discoveries have shown that early kings of the Zhou dynasty, such as King Wen and King Wu, used \"posthumous names\" during their lifetime, but later they became chosen by successors after the ruler's death. As a result, final rulers of states and rulers seen as illegitimate (such as usurpers) often do not have posthumous names and are referred to by their personal names, e.g. Jian, King of Qi; Min, Marquis of Jin; and Chen Tuo.\n\nThe use of posthumous names was stopped in the Qin Dynasty, because Qin Shi Huang proclaimed that it is disrespectful for the descendants, or \"later emperors\" to judge their elders, or the \"prior emperors\" (先帝). The practice was revived in the Han Dynasty after the demise of Qin.\n\nPosthumous names are the conventional way of referring to rulers from the Zhou dynasty to the Sui dynasty. In the Zhou dynasty the posthumous name was usually only one character, such as \"Wen\" (cultured) or \"Wu\" (martial). However, as time went on rulers began to add more and more characters to the posthumous names of their ancestors. By the time of the first emperor of Tang the length had grown to 7 characters, which was taxing to pronounce or write. Therefore, emperors from Tang on are commonly referred to by either their temple name (Tang through Yuan dynasties) or era name (Ming and Qing dynasties), both of which are always just two characters long and therefore easy to remember and use.\n\nPosthumous names commonly made tracing linear genealogies simpler and kept a blood line apparent. The rule was also followed by non-Han Chinese rulers of Sixteen Kingdoms, Silla, Japan, Kingdom of Nanzhao, Liao dynasty, Vietnam, Western Xia, Jin dynasty, Yuan dynasty and Qing dynasty. King names of Hồng Bàng dynasty and Mahan also followed the rule but they are thought to be later work.\n\nSome rulers, such as Wu Zetian, or rebel leaders also had similar style regnal names when they were alive.\n\nMost monarchs inherited the throne and did not give bad posthumous names to the previous monarch. Some names were lengthened or changed by later monarchs. Emperor Aizong of Jin and Chongzhen Emperor had different names from different people. Qin Hui, of the Song dynasty, had a good name, was given a bad one, and had the good name later restored. After the Song dynasty few received bad names. Bad monarchs of the Joseon dynasty did not receive posthumous names.\n\nEmperors of China continued to receive posthumous names of increasing length as a matter of ritual long after the naming convention had been abandoned in casual speech and writing. The Guangxu Emperor, who died in 1908 and was the last emperor to receive a posthumous name, sports the impressive 21-character title of \"Emperor Tongtian Chongyun Dazhong Zhizheng Jingwen Weiwu Renxiao Ruizhi Duanjian Kuanqin Jing of Qing\".\n\nPuyi, the last emperor of China, did not receive a posthumous name upon his death in 1967 since he died at the height of the Cultural Revolution, when such practices would have been thought feudal.\n\nUse of posthumous names ceased in China with the Guangxu Emperor (d.1908), in Vietnam with the Khải Định Emperor (d.1925) and in Korea with the Yunghui Emperor (d.1926). However, in Korea unofficial posthumous names were given to Crown Prince Euimin and Gu, Prince Imperial Hoeun.\n\nPosthumous names are in use to this day in Japan. A deceased emperor is given a posthumous name, which beginning with Emperor Meiji (d.1912) is identical to his era name and therefore always two characters long. The most recently conferred posthumous name is that of Emperor Showa (d.1989).\n\nA non-royal deceased person may be given a posthumous Buddhist name known as \"kaimyo\", but is in practice still referred to by the living name.\n\nPosthumous names can be praises (褒字) or deprecations (貶字). There are more praises than deprecations, so posthumous names are also commonly called \"respectful names\" (尊號 zūn hào) in Chinese. Sima Qian's \"Records of the Grand Historian\" outlines extensively the rules behind choosing the names. Some of those guidelines:\n\nHowever, most of these qualifications are subjective, repetitive, and highly stereotypical; hence the names are chosen somewhat arbitrarily. Such names are usually given by court historians, according to their good deeds or the bad ones.\n\nWhen combining an emperor's temple name and posthumous name, the temple name is placed first. For example, the Shunzhi Emperor whose full posthumous name would be \"Shi Zu - Zhang Huang Di\" (世祖章皇帝), combining the last 2 characters of his temple name and the last 3 of his posthumous name, which is the form most commonly seen in old documents. A fuller description of this naming convention for royalty appears in the Chinese sovereign entry. The posthumous names of some monarchs and royal members were long, for example Hongwu Emperor, Nurhaci, , Sunjo of Joseon and Empress Dowager Cixi.\n\nSome monarchs did not follow these guidelines. Some monarchs of Ju, Chu, and Qi used place names. Some monarchs of Yue (state) had Chinese transliterated posthumous names. Some monarchs of Goguryeo, Silla and Baekje had different style posthumous names. Some early Japan monarchs also had Japanese-style posthumous names (和風諡号).\n\nAll Chinese posthumous names for rulers end in one or two of the characters for \"emperor\", \"Huángdì\" (皇帝, i.e. emperor), which can be shortened to \"Dì\"; except about a dozen or so less recognized ones who have had only \"Dì\" and no \"Huáng\".\n\nStarting with Emperor Xiaowen of Han (more commonly \"Emperor Wen\"), every single Han emperor, except the first one of the Eastern Han Dynasty, has the character of \"filial\" (孝 xiào) at the beginning of his posthumous names. \"Filial\" is also used in the full posthumous names of virtually all emperors and empresses of the Tang, Song, Ming and Qing Dynasties. For Qing emperors, 孝 xiào is placed in various position in the string of characters, while those Qing empresses who were given posthumous names, 孝 xiào is always initial.\n\nThe number of characters in posthumous names was increasing. The emperors of the Tang Dynasty have names in between seven and eighteen characters. Those in the Qing Dynasty have twenty-one characters. For instance, that of the Shunzhi Emperor was \"The Emperor of Order who Observes the Heavenly Rituals with a Solemn Fate, Destined to Unify, Establishes with Extreme Talented Insights, Admires the Arts, Manifests the Might, with Great Virtue and Vast Achievement, Reaches Humanity, Purely Filial\" (體天隆運定統建極英睿欽文顯武大德弘功至仁純孝章皇帝, : tǐ tiān lóng yùn dìng tǒng jiàn jí yīng ruì qīn wén xiǎn wǔ dà dé hóng gōng zhì rén chún xiào zhāng huáng dì).\n\nThe woman with the longest posthumous name is Empress Dowager Cixi, who is \"The Empress who is Admirably Filial, Initiates Kindness, with Blessed Health, Manifests Much Contentment, Solemn Sincerity, with Longevity, Provides Admiration Prosperously, Reveal Adoration, Prosperous with a Merry Heaven, with a Holy Appearance\" (孝欽慈禧端佑康頤昭豫莊誠壽恭欽獻崇熙配天興聖顯皇后 xiào qīn cí xǐ duān yòu kāng yí zhāo yù zhuāng chéng shòu gōng qīn xiàn chóng xī pèi tiān xīng shèng xiǎn huáng hòu), or 孝欽顯皇后 for short.\n\nAccording to the noble system since the Zhou Dynasty, the immediate family members of the Emperor were given the titles of Kings (or Princes), Dukes, Earls, etc., with or without actual control over a region of land. After their death, they would be referred to by the same title, with the posthumous name (usually one character) inserted in the middle. The characters used are mostly the same ones used for emperors, with the same denotations as described above. For example, Prince Gong of the Qing Dynasty was posthumously named Zhong (忠), and thus is referred to as Prince Gongzhong (恭忠親王 Gongzhong qīnwáng); Prince Chun was posthumous named Xian (賢), hence is referred Prince Chunxian (醇賢親王 Chunxian qīnwáng).\n\nIt was also common for persons with no hereditary titles, especially accomplished scholar-officials or ministers, to be given posthumous names by the imperial court. The characters used are mostly the same ones used for emperors, with the same denotations as described above. The length, however, was restricted to one or two characters. The posthumous name is sometimes rendered canonization in English, for the scholar-official to Confucianism is analogous to the saint in the Catholic Church, though the process is not nearly as long. See List of Posthumous Names for some examples.\n\nConfucius has been given long posthumous names in almost every major dynasty. One of the most commonly used was Zhìshèngxiānshī 至聖先師.\n\nSometimes a person is given a posthumous name not by the court, but by his own family or disciples. Such names are private posthumous names (Sĩshì, 私諡). For example, Tao Qian was given \"Sishi\" Jìngjié 靖節.\n\nIn Korea, Goguryeo kings were mostly given posthumous names after their burial places, or in case of Gwanggaeto, the name described his life. In Silla, every monarchs were given the titles of \"wang\" (왕, 王, \"king\") with two characters in posthumous names from Jijeung of Silla. On the other hand, all posthumous names for kings of Balhae were restricted to one character.\n\nMost of the kings of Goryeo and Joseon were called temple name more than posthumous name unlike dynasties of ancient Korea. All posthumous names for rulers of Goryeo and Joseon end in two of the characters for \"Daewang\" (대왕, 大王, \"great king\"). This is a longer name, made up of adjectives characteristic of the king's rule. For example, Gwangjong of Goryeo's posthumous name was \"Hongdoseon Yeolpyeongse Sukheonui Hyoganghye Daeseong Daewang\" (홍도선열평세숙헌의효강혜대성대왕, 弘道宣烈平世肅憲懿孝康惠大成大王), while his temple name was \"Gwangjong\". Details of the system of posthumous name were made during the Joseon Dynasty. The deposed king's names were made up of three parts: the temple name (묘호), eulogistic names (존호) and posthumous names (시호). During the Joseon Dynasty, After five days the king's funeral, officials discussed and decided the king's posthumous name. The deceased king, who before his temple and posthumous names was decided, was called \"Daehaeng daewang\" (대행대왕, 大行大王). The Ministry of Culture and Education (예조, 禮曹) was in charge of the naming. When officials of the the ministry of culture and education selected three candidates and reported them to the next king, the next king chose the one of those names that he liked best. Also, Shorn of his power, the deposed king has not been given any posthumous names with temple name unless reinstated. They were degraded to the rank of \"gun\" (군, 君, \"prince\"). Yeonsan-gun and Gwanghae-gun were are notable examples. And there are some men who they didn't ascend the throne in their lifetime, but proclaimed as kings after they died by the their descendants who became king. There are nine men who proclaimed as kings in the Joseon Dynasty. In Joseon, there are nine men who raised to the status of the emeritus kings.\n\nGojong of Joseon proclaimed Korea an empire in 1897, receiving the title of emperor, thus the posthumous names of Gojong and Sunjong end in two of the characters for \"Hwangje\" (황제, 皇帝, \"emperor\"). For example, full posthumous name of Emperor Gojong of Korea is \"Tongcheonyung-un Jogeukdonyun Jeongseonggwang-ui Myeonggongdaedeok Yojunsunhwi Umotanggyeong Eungmyeongripgi Jihwasinryeol Oehunhong-eop Gyegiseonryeok Geonhaenggonjeong Yeong-uihonghyu Sugangmunheon Mujanginik Jeonghyo Taehwangje\" (통천융운조극돈윤정성광의명공대덕요준순휘우모탕경응명립기지화신렬외훈홍업계기선력건행곤정영의홍휴수강문헌무장인익정효태황제, 統天隆運 肇極敦倫 正聖光義 明功大德 堯峻舜徽 禹謨湯敬 應命立紀 至化神烈 巍勳洪業 啓基宣曆 乾行坤定 英毅弘休 壽康文憲 武章仁翼 貞孝太皇帝), or \"Taehwangje\" for short.\n\nCrown Prince Hyomyeong has been given longest posthumous names in Korea. He were posthumously elevated in status and given the title Emperor Munjo with with 117 characters in posthumous names in 1899.\n\nIn Japan, posthumous names are called \"shigō\" (諡号), \"okuri-na\" (諡), or \"tsuigo\" (追号). Those of Japanese emperors are also sometimes called \"teigō\" (帝号, \"emperor name[s]\").\n\nThere are two styles in emperors' posthumous names, namely Chinese style and Japanese style. In addition to the appellation \"Tennō\" (天皇, \"heavenly sovereign\", usually translated as \"Emperor\") that is a part of all Japanese emperors' posthumous name, most of them consist of two kanji characters, although a few consist of three. Some names are given several generations later—this is the case for Emperor Jimmu and Emperor Antoku, for example. Others are given immediately after death, like that of Emperor Monmu.\n\nMany have Chinese-style names, for example:\n\nSome have Japanese-style names. For example:\n\nSince the death of Emperor Meiji (明治天皇 \"Meiji Tennō\") in 1912, the posthumous name of an emperor has always been the name of his era. For example, after his death, Hirohito (by which he is usually called outside Japan) was formally renamed Emperor Shōwa (昭和天皇 \"Shōwa Tennō\") after his era; Japanese now refer to him by only that name. \"Hirohito\" was his given name; most Japanese never refer to their emperors by their given names, as it is considered disrespectful.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56113127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56113127", "title": "Regional planning organization", "text": "Regional planning organization\n\nA Regional Planning Organization is a government body that guides the development of public and private resources in a manner that ensures public safety, well being and livability. Regional planning organizations take different forms and may also include a metropolitan planning organization or may be part of a multi-state or multi-government association. A regional planning organization develops plans that coordinate planning by groups of local governments and special districts that have common social, political, economic, cultural or other similarities. Generally this process takes the form of urban planning or one of its sub-disciplines such as land use planning, transportation planning, or environmental planning.\n\nRegional planning organizations exist in a variety of different formats. In some areas they are a part of another organizations such as a Regional Council of Governments.. Regional planning organizations are sometimes also called regional development organisations as the need for planning often includes key economic development issues.\n\n\nNational Association of Development Organizations\n"}
{"id": "15388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15388", "title": "Religion in pre-Islamic Arabia", "text": "Religion in pre-Islamic Arabia\n\nReligion in pre-Islamic Arabia was a mix of polytheism, Christianity, Judaism, and Iranian religions. Arab polytheism, the dominant form of religion in pre-Islamic Arabia, was based on veneration of deities and other rituals. Gods and goddesses, including Hubal and the goddesses al-Lāt, Al-‘Uzzá and Manāt, were worshipped at local shrines such as the Kaaba in Mecca. Different theories have been proposed regarding the role of Allah in Meccan religion. Many of the physical descriptions of the pre-Islamic gods are traced to idols, especially near the Kaaba, which is said to have contained up to 360 of them.\n\nOther religions were represented to varying, lesser degrees. The influence of the adjacent Roman, Aksumite and Sasanian Empires resulted in Christian communities in the northwest, northeast and south of Arabia. Christianity made a lesser impact, but secured some conversions, in the remainder of the peninsula. With the exception of Nestorianism in the northeast and the Persian Gulf, the dominant form of Christianity was Miaphysitism. The peninsula had been a destination for Jewish migration since Roman times, which had resulted in a diaspora community supplemented by local converts. Additionally, the influence of the Sasanian Empire resulted in Iranian religions being present in the peninsula. Zoroastrianism existed in the east and south, while there is evidence of Manichaeism or possibly Mazdakism being practised in Mecca.\n\nUntil about the fourth century, almost all Arabs practised polytheistic religions. Although significant Jewish and Christian minorities developed, polytheism remained the dominant belief system in pre-Islamic Arabia. The religious beliefs and practices of the nomadic Bedouin were distinct from those of the settled tribes of towns such as Mecca. Nomadic religious belief systems and practices are believed to have included fetishism, totemism and veneration of the dead but were connected principally with immediate concerns and problems and did not consider larger philosophical questions such as the afterlife. Settled urban Arabs, on the other hand, are thought to have believed in a more complex pantheon of deities. While the Meccans and the other settled inhabitants of the Hejaz worshiped their gods at permanent shrines in towns and oases, the Bedouin practised their religion on the move.\n\nThe contemporary sources of information regarding the pre-Islamic pantheon include a small number of inscriptions and carvings, remnants of stone idol-worship, references in the poetry of the pre-Islamic Arab poet Zuhayr bin Abi Sulma and pre-Islamic personal names. Nevertheless, information is limited and while scholars believe that the dominant traditions of the pre-Islamic Arabia were polytheistic, there is little certainty about the nature of pre-Islamic polytheism and considerable debate. According to F.E. Peters, \"one of the characteristics of Arab paganism as it has come down to us is the absence of a mythology, narratives that might serve to explain the origin or history of the gods.\" \n\nThe majority of extant information about Mecca during the rise of Islam and earlier times comes from the text of Quran itself and later Muslim sources such as the Prophetic biography literature dealing with the life of Muhammad and the eighth-century \"Book of Idols\". Alternative sources are so fragmentary and specialized that writing a convincing history of this period based on them alone is impossible. Several scholars hold that the sīra literature is not independent of Quran but has been fabricated to explain the verses of Quran. There is evidence to support the contention that some reports of the sīras are of dubious validity, but there is also evidence to support the contention that the sīra narratives originated independently of the Quran. Compounding the problem is that the earliest extant Muslim historical works, including the sīras, were composed in their definitive form more than a century after the beginning of the Islamic era. Some of these works were based on subsequently lost earlier texts, which in their turn recorded a fluid oral tradition. Scholars do not agree as to the time when such oral accounts began to be systematically collected and written down, and they differ greatly in their assessment of the historical reliability of the available texts.\n\nAccording to Ibn al-Kalbi's Book of Idols, descendants of the son of Abraham who had settled in Mecca migrated to other lands carried with them the holy stones from Kaaba and after erecting them started circumambulting them just like Kaaba. This according to him led to the rise of idol worship. Based on this, it may be probable that Arabs originally venetrated stones, later adopting idol-worship under foreign influences. The relationship between a god and a stone as his representation can be seen from the third-century work called the Syriac homily of Pseudo-Meliton where he describes the pagan faiths of Syriac-speakers in northern Mesoptomia, who were mostly Arabs.\n\nThe pre-Islamic Arab religion was polytheistic, venerating many deities and spirits through statues, baetylus and natural phenomena. According to the \"Book of Idols\", there are two known types of statues; idols (\"sanam\") and images (\"wathan\"). If a statue was made of wood, gold, or silver, after a human form, it would be an idol\",\" but if the statue was made of stone, it would be an image.\n\nSome scholars postulate that in pre-Islamic Arabia, including in Mecca, Allah was considered to be a deity, possibly a creator deity or a supreme deity in a polytheistic pantheon. The word \"Allah\" (from the Arabic \"al-ilah\" meaning \"the god\") may have been used as a title rather than a name. The concept of \"Allah\" may have been vague in the Meccan religion. Pre-Islamic texts, Meccans and their neighbors believed that the goddesses Al-lāt, Al-‘Uzzá, and Manāt were the daughters of Allah.\n\nRegional variants of the word \"Allah\" occur in both pagan and Christian pre-Islamic inscriptions. Muhammad's father's name was , meaning \"the servant of Allah\".\n\n\"Encyclopedia of Ancient Deities\" by Charles Russell Coulter and Patricia Turner considers Allah's name may be derived from a pre-Islamic god called Ailiah and is similar to El, Il, Ilah and Jehova. It also considers some of his characteristics to be seemingly based on lunar deities like Ilmugah, Kahil, Shaker, Wadd and Warah. Alfred Guillaume states that the connection between Ilah that came to form Allah and ancient Babylonian \"Il\" or El of Ancient Israel is not clear. Wellhausen states that Allah was known from Jewish and Christian sources and was known to pagan Arabs as the supreme god. Winfried Corduan doubts the theory of Allah of Islam being linked to a moon god, stating the term Allah derived from Al-ilah like El-Elyon which was used for the god Sin, functions as a generic term.\n\nSouth Arabian inscriptions from the fourth century AD refer to a god called Rahman (\"The Merciful One\") who had a monotheistic cult and was referred to as the \"Lord of heaven and Earth\". Aaron W. Hughes states that scholars are unsure whether he developed from the earlier polytheistic systems or developed due to the increasing significance of the Christian and Jewish communities. He also adds that it is difficult to establish whether Allah was linked to Rahmanan. Maxime Rodinson however considers one of Allah's name \"Ar-Rahman\" to have been used in the form of Rahmanan earlier.\n\nAl-Lāt, Al-ʿUzzā and Manāt were common names used for multiple goddesses across Arabia. G.R. Hawting states that modern scholars have frequently associated the names of Arabian goddesses Al-Lāt, Al-ʿUzzā and Manāt with cults devoted to celestial bodies particularly Venus, drawing upon evidence external to the Muslim tradition as well as in relation to Syria, Mesopotamia and the Sinai Peninsula.\n\nThere are two possible etymologies of the name Al-Lāt. The etymology best reflecting the Arab lexicographical tradition derives the name from the verb \"latta\" (to mix or knead barley-meal). It has also been associated with the \"idol of jealousy\" erected in the temple of Jerusalem according to the Book of Ezekiel, which was offered an oblation of barley-meal by the husband who suspected his wife of infidelity. It can be inferred from al-Kalbi's Book of Idols that a similar ritual was practiced in the vicinity of the idol of Al-lāt in Mecca. The second etymology, which is more in line with Semitic traditions in general, takes Al-lāt to be the feminine form of Allah. The word al-Lat was used as a name and title for multiple pre-Islamic goddesses of Arabia and was used for either a wife of Allah or a daughter depending on the region. It was used as a title for the goddesses Asherah and Athirat. The word is akin to Elat, which was the name of the wife of Semitic deity El.\n\nAllāt's cult was spread in Syria and northern Arabia. From Safaitic and Hismaic inscriptions, it is probable that she was worshiped as Lat (\"lt\"). F. V. Winnet saw Allat as a lunar deity due to association of a crescent with her in 'Ayn esh-Shallāleh and a Lihyanite inscription mentioning the name of Wadd over the title of \"'fkl lt\". René Dussaud and Gonzague Ryckmans linked her with Venus while others have thought her to be a solar deity. John F. Healey considers al-Uzza actually might have been an epithet of Allāt before becoming a separate deity in Meccan pantheon. \"Redifining Dionysus\" considers she might have been a god of vegetation or a celestial deity of atmospheric phenomenoas and a sky deity.\n\nAl-‘Uzzá was meanwhile associated with the Mesopotamian goddesses Nanai, Inanna and Ishtar. Manat was apparently associated with the Greek goddess Nemesis. A similar word Menītu/Menūtu was used as a title for Ishtar.\n\nThe Kaaba, whose environs were regarded as sacred (\"haram\"), became a national shrine under the custodianship of the Quraysh, the chief tribe of Mecca, which made the Hejaz the most important religious area in north Arabia. Its role was solidified by a confrontation with the Christian king Abraha, who controlled much of Arabia from a seat of power in Yemen in the middle of the sixth century. Abraha had recently constructed a splendid church in Sana'a, and he wanted to make that city a major center of pilgrimage, but Mecca's Kaaba presented a challenge to his plan. Abraha found a pretext, presented by different sources alternatively as pollution of the church by a tribe allied to the Meccans or as an attack on Abraha's grandson in Najran by a Meccan party. The defeat of the army he assembled to conquer Mecca is recounted with miraculous details by the Islamic tradition and is also alluded to in the Quran and pre-Islamic poetry. After the battle, which probably occurred around 565, the Quraysh became a dominant force in western Arabia, receiving the title \"God's people\" (\"ahl Allah\") according to Islamic sources, and formed the cult association of \"ḥums\", which tied members of many tribes in western Arabia to the Kaaba.\n\nAccording to tradition, the Kaaba was a cube-like, originally roofless structure housing a black stone venerated as a fetish. The sanctuary was dedicated to Hubal (), who, according to some sources, was worshiped as the greatest of the 360 idols the Kaaba contained, which probably represented the days of the year. Ibn Ishaq and Ibn Al-Kalbi both report that the human-shaped idol of Hubal made of precious stone came into possession of the Quraysh with its right hand broken off and that the Quraysh made a hand of gold to replace it. A soothsayer performed divination in the shrine by drawing ritual arrows, and vows and sacrifices were made to assure success. Marshall Hodgson argues that relations with deities and fetishes in pre-Islamic Mecca were maintained chiefly on the basis of bargaining, where favors were expected in return for offerings. A deity's or oracle's failure to provide the desired response was sometimes met with anger.\n\nDifferent theories have been proposed regarding the role of Allah in Meccan religion. According to one hypothesis, which goes back to Julius Wellhausen, Allah (the supreme deity of the tribal federation around Quraysh) was a designation that consecrated the superiority of Hubal (the supreme deity of Quraysh) over the other gods. However, there is also evidence that Allah and Hubal were two distinct deities. According to that hypothesis, the Kaaba was first consecrated to a supreme deity named Allah and then hosted the pantheon of Quraysh after their conquest of Mecca, about a century before the time of Muhammad. Some inscriptions seem to indicate the use of Allah as a name of a polytheist deity centuries earlier, but we know nothing precise about this use. Some scholars have suggested that Allah may have represented a remote creator god who was gradually eclipsed by more particularized local deities. There is disagreement on whether Allah played a major role in the Meccan religious cult. No iconic representation or idol of Allah is known to have existed.\n\nThe three chief goddesses of Meccan religion were Al-lāt, Al-‘Uzzá, and Manāt, who were called the daughters of Allah. Egerton Sykes meanwhile states that Al-lāt was the female counterpart of Allah while Uzza was a name given by Banu Ghatafan to the planet Venus.\n\nAllāt () or Al-lāt was worshipped throughout the ancient Near East with various associations. Herodotus in the 5th century BC identifies \"Alilat\" () as the Arabic name for Aphrodite (and, in another passage, for Urania), which is strong evidence for worship of Allāt in Arabia at that early date. According to the Book of Idols, her idol and shrine stood in Ta'if. Al-‘Uzzá () \"The Mightiest\" was a fertility goddess or possibly a goddess of love. Her principal shrine was in Nakhla, a day's journey from Mecca. Manāt () was the goddess of fate. According to the Book of Idols, an idol of Manāt was erected on the seashore between Medina and Mecca. Inhabitants of several areas venerated Manāt, performing sacrifices before her idol, and pilgrimages of some were not considered completed until they visited Manāt and shaved their heads.\n\nManaf () was another Meccan god whose idol was caressed by women. Menstruating women were forbidden from coming near his idol. The Meccans were accustomed to name their children \"Abd Manaf\". Muhammad's great-great-grandfather's name was Abd Manaf which means \"slave of Manaf\". He is thought by some scholars to be a sun-god.\n\nThe idols of Isāf and Nā'ila were located near the Black Stone with a \"talbiyah\" performed to Isāf during sacrifices. Various legends existed about the idols, including one that they were petrified after they comitted adultery in the Kaaba.\n\nQuzah was a god of rains and storms. In pre-Islamic times pilgrims used to halt at the \"hill of Quzah\" before sunrise. Qusai ibn Kilab is traditionally reported to have introduced the association of fire worship with him on Muzdalifah.\n\nThe pantheon of the Quraysh was not identical with that of the tribes who entered into various cult and commercial associations with them, especially that of the \"hums\". Christian Julien Robin argues that the former was composed principally of idols that were in the sanctuary of Mecca, including Hubal and Manaf, while the pantheon of the associations was superimposed on it, and its principal deities included the three goddesses, who had neither idols nor a shrine in that city.\n\nThe pilgrimage involved the stations of Mount Arafat, Muzdalifah, Mina and central Mecca that included Safa and Marwa as well as Kaaba. Pilgrims at the first two stations performed \"wuquf\" or standing in adoration. At Mina, animals were sacrificed. The procession from one place to Mecca in a pre-reserved route moved towards idols before sunset. At Jabal Quzah, fires were started during the sacred month.\n\nNearby the Kaaba was located the betyl which was later called \"Maqam Ibrahim\"; a place called \"al-Ḥigr\" which Aziz al-Azmeh takes to be reserved for consecrated animals, basing his argument on a Sabeans inscription mentioning a place called \"mḥgr\" which was reserved for animals; and the Well of Zamzam. Both Safa and Marwa were adjacent to two sacrificial hills, one called Muṭ'im al Ṭayr and another Mujāwir al-Riḥ which was a pathway to Abu Kubais from where the Black Stone is reported to have originated.\n\nThe known pilgrimages are that of Ḥilla who performed the \"hajj\" in autumn season while the other were that of the Ṭuls and the Ḥums who performed the \"umrah\" in spring.\n\nThe Ḥums were the Quraysh, Banu Kinanah, Banu Khuza'a and Banu 'Amir who did not perform the pilgrimage outside the zone of Mecca's \"haram\", thus excluding Mount Arafat. They also developed certain dietary and cultural restrictions. According to \"Kitab al-Muhabbar\", the Ḥilla denoted most of the Banu Tamim, Qays, Rabi`ah, Qūḍa'ah, Ansar, Khath'am, Bajīlah, Banu Bakr ibn Abd Manat, Hudhayl, Asad, Tayy and Bariq. The Ṭuls comprised the tribes of Yemen and Hadramaut, 'Akk, Ujayb and Īyād. The \"Basl\" recognised at least eight months of the calendar as holy. There was also another group which didn't recognise the sanctity of Mecca's \"haram\" or holy months unlike the other four.\n\nThe second half of the sixth century was a period of political disorder in Arabia and communication routes were no longer secure. Religious divisions were an important cause of the crisis. Judaism became the dominant religion in Yemen while Christianity took root in the Persian Gulf area. In line with the broader trends of the ancient world, Arabia yearned for a more spiritual form of religion and began believing in afterlife, while the choice of religion increasingly became a personal rather than communal choice. While many were reluctant to convert to a foreign faith, those faiths provided intellectual and spiritual reference points, and the old pagan vocabulary of Arabic began to be replaced by Jewish and Christian loanwords from Aramaic everywhere, including Mecca. The distribution of pagan temples supports Gerald Hawting's argument that Arabian polytheism was marginalized in the region and already dying in Mecca on the eve of Islam. The practice of polytheistic cults was increasingly limited to the steppe and the desert, and in Yathrib, which included two tribes with polytheistic majority, the absence of a public pagan temple in the town or its immediate neighborhood indicates that polytheism was confined to the private sphere. Looking at the text of Quran itself, Hawting has also argued that the criticism of idolators and polytheists contained in Quran is in fact a hyperbolic reference to other monotheists, in particular the Arab Jews and Arab Christians, whose religious beliefs were considered imperfect. According to some traditions, the Kaaba contained no statues, but its interior was decorated with images of Mary and Jesus, of prophets, angels, and trees.\n\nTo counter the effects of anarchy, the institution of sacred months during which every act of violence was prohibited, was reestablished. During those months, it was possible to participate in pilgrimages and fairs without danger. The Quraysh upheld the principle of two annual truces, one of one month and the second of three months, which conferred a sacred character to the Meccan sanctuary. The cult association of \"hums\", in which individuals and groups partook in the same rites, was primarily religious, but it also had important economic consequences. Although, as Patricia Crone has shown, Mecca could not compare with the great centers of caravan trade on the eve of Islam, it was probably one of the most prosperous and secure cities of the peninsula, since, unlike many of them, it did not have surrounding walls. Pilgrimage to Mecca was a popular custom. Some Islamic rituals, including processions around the Kaaba and between the hills of al-Safa and Marwa, as well as the salutation \"we are here, O Allah, we are here\" repeated on approaching the Kaaba are believed to have antedated Islam. Spring water acquired a sacred character in Arabia early on and Islamic sources state that the well of Zamzam became holy long before the Islamic era.\n\nEsarhaddon's annals while talking about returning the idols looted during the campaigns of his father Sennacherib, name some North Arabian gods as Atarsamain, Nukhay, Ruldaiu, and Atarquruma.\n\nAccording to the Greek historian Herodotus in the 5th-century BC work \"Histories\", the Arabs at the time only believed in two gods; Orotalt (whom he identifies with Dionysus) and Alilat (identified with Aphrodite Ourania).They believe in no other gods except Dionysus and the Heavenly Aphrodite; and they say that they wear their hair as Dionysus does his, cutting it round the head and shaving the temples. They call Dionysus, \"Orotalt\"; and Aphrodite, \"Alilat\".\n\nAllat was identified as the mother of the gods by a Nabataean inscription. Herodotus (Hist. I, 131) calls her \"Alilat\" and equates her with the Assyrian goddess Mylitta and the Persian goddess Mitra.\n\nStrabo stated the Arabs worshipped Dionysus and Zeus. Origen stated they worshipped Dionysus and Urania.\n\nThe Hejaz region specifically was home to three important shrines, one located in Ta'if was dedicated to Al-Lat, another in Nakhla was dedicated to Al-'Uzza, and the other in Al-Qudayd was dedicated to Manat.\n\nVarious other deities were venerated in the area by specific tribes. For example, the god Sa'd was venerated by the tribe of Kinanah (although he also received worship by the Arab nomads around Palmyra). Suwa is an important god of the Banu Hudhayl tribe. Apparently, animal sacrifice was also practiced. According to the Book of Idols, animals such as camels and sheep would be sacrificed before the deity, often performed on an altar. \n\nMedina, then called Yathrib, was home to two polytheistic tribes; Banu Aws (which was also known as Aws Manat or \"the Gift of Manāt\") and Banu Khazraj. Both tribes were devout worshippers of the goddess Manat.\n\nNuhm, was a god worshipped amongst the Muzaynah tribe, a division of the Banu Aws.\n\nThe civilizations of South Arabia had the most developed pantheon in the Arabian peninsula. Evidence from surviving inscriptions suggests that each of the southern kingdoms of Qataban, Saba, Hadhramaut, Ma'in and Himyar had its own pantheon of three to five deities, the major deity always being a god. For example, the pantheon of Saba comprised Almaqah, the major deity, together with Athtar, Haubas, Himyam, and Dhat-Badan. A temple was dedicated to Dhat-Badan at Hugga in Yemen.\n\nThe main god in Ma'in and Himyar was Athtar, in Qataban it was Amm, and in Hadhramaut it was Sin. Amm was a lunar deity and was associated with the weather, especially lightning. One of the most frequent titles of the god Almaqah was \"Lord of Awwam\".\n\nAnbay was an oracular god of Qataban and also the spokesman of Amm. His name was invoked in royal regulations regarding water supply. Anbay's name was related to that of the Babylonian deity Nabu. Hawkam was invoked alongside Anbay as gods of \"command and decision\" and his name is derived from the root word \"to be wise\".\n\nEach kingdom's central temple was the focus of worship for the main god and would be the destination for an annual pilgrimage, with regional temples dedicated to a local manifestation of the main god. Other beings worshipped included local deities or deities dedicated to specific functions as well as deified ancestors.\n\nThe gods of Azd Sârat tribe of the Asir Region were Dhu'l-Shara, Dhu'l-Kaffayn, Dhu'l-Khalsa and A'im. According to Ibn al-Kalbi, Dhu'l-Kaffayn originated from a clan of the Banu Daws. In addition to being worshipped among the Azd, Dushara is also reported to have a shrine amongst the Daws.\n\nOther deities included:\n\n\nMaulana Muhammad Ali reported that acording to Abd Allah ibn Abbas, Ya'uq was worshipped by the tribe of Banu Hamdan. According to Islamic commentators, Wadd was represented as a man, Nasr as an eagle, Suwa' as a woman while Ya'uq was represented as a horse and Yaghuth as a lion. The god 'Awf was called \"the great bird\", thus being animalistic in origin like Nasr.\n\nThe main deity of the Nabataeans in northern Arabia was Dushara (). He was the only god known for certain to have been worshipped throughout Nabatea and was associated with the Greek gods Zeus and Dionysus. The meaning of his name is not clear as there are no definite interpretations of it. John Healey speculated his name to mean \"The lord of Shara[t] mountain range.\" Dushara was represented in the form of a stone cube or more generally in the form of cuboid architecture which can be seen throughout the remains of the Nabateans' principal city, Petra. Warwick Ball has noted a possible connection with the Kaaba and has commented that, as a result, \"the Islamic abstract concept of deity certainly owes a debt to Nabatean religion\". There is evidence that Dushara was connected to A'ra, the local god of Bosra.\n\nAl-ʿUzzá was worshipped in Nabataea where she had been adopted alongside Dushara as the presiding goddess at Petra, the Nabataean capital, where she assumed attributes of Isis, Tyche, and Aphrodite. She was the protectress of the city and also of love and immortality. Despite the same name shared between the al-ʿUzzá of Nabataea and that of Mecca and other places, it is unclear whether there is any continuity of worship or identity between them.\nAl-Qaum () or \"Shayʾ al-Qawm\" (\"he who accompanies/leads the people\"), another Nabatean god was the guardian of caravans. He was the only truly nomadic god of the Nabataean religion. According to Nabataean inscription, he did not drink wine.\n\nManat was another Nabatean goddess and was identified with the Greek goddess Nemesis. She was the goddess of fate and justice. Within the Nabataean kingdom, the place she is most often mentioned is Hegra however there is no direct portrayal of her. In some of the inscriptions, she is linked with Dushara in cursing and fining those who violate the terms of use of the tombs and do not observe the rules, respectively. In two of these inscriptions she is linked with her \"Qaysha\" which according to various interpretations might be referring to another deity or an object.\n\nAl-lat was another Nabatean goddess who was probably identified with Athena and Tyche. An image of her containing elements of both human and block form exists at 'Ain Shellaleh in er-Rumm along with an inscription which describes her as the goddess of Bosra. Three inscriptions mentioning her exist in Salkhad. However, her name isn't recorded anywhere in Bosra or Petra. Only a single bust of her near the Arched Gate of Petra testifies her existence in the capital. An inscription in Hegra on a tomb mentions her as cursing those who violate the terms of its use. The Nabatean inscriptions define her and Al-Uzza as the \"bride of Dushara\". Al-Uzza may have been an epithet of Allāt in the Nabataean religion.\n\nIn the same inscription where Al-lat is mentioned, a deity named \"Hubul\" is also mentioned. Jane Taylor takes this deity to be a god of divination. This is the only place outside South Arabia where a name similar to that of Hubal is mentioned. Maxime Rodinson suggests that the Meccan god Hubal may have been of Nabataean origin.\n\nA god called al-Kutba' is mentioned in the inscriptions of these people. Devotion to the god is mentioned in inscriptions in Wadi Rum where Kutba is represented as a baetyl alongside al-'Uzza. The gender of this god is disputed. The name originates from the root word \"K-T-B\" or \"to write\", suggesting that Kutba' was a god of intellect.\n\nThe worship of the Syrian god Baalshamin was imported from Hauran. The Edomite god Qos was also worshipped by Nabataeans, as visible from inscriptions at Khirbet et-Tannur. The goddess Isis is referenced in an inscription in Wadi es-Siyyagh at Sidd el-Mrerriyeh. A Greek inscription at Siq mentions one of her priests. Greek papyrus dates to 2nd century A.D. states that she was worshipped as Soteira in Petra. The Syrian goddess Atargatis was represented in Khirbet et-Tannur too. \n\nTyche is represented holding a betyl and shown alongside lions in Petra and Bosra. At Khirbet et-Tannur, Nike upholding that of Tyche surrounded by zodiac symbols.\n\nThe king Obodas I founded Obodat where he was deified. The worship of Pakidas, a Nabatean god, is attested at Gerasa alongside Hera in an inscription dated to the first century A.D. while an Arabian god is also attested by three inscriptions dated to the second century.\n\nPetra has many \"sacred high places\" which include altars that have usually been interpreted as places of human sacrifice, although, since the 1960s, an alternative theory that they are \"exposure platforms\" for placing the corpses of the deceased as part of a funerary ritual has been put forward. However, there is, in fact, little evidence for either proposition.\n\nThe Aramaic stele inscription discovered by Charles Hubert in 1880 at Tayma mentions the introduction of a new god called Salm of \"hgm\" into the city's pantheon being permitted by three local gods - Salm of Mahram who was the chief god, Shingala and Ashira. The name Salm means \"image\" or \"idol\". An inscription on a temple building discovered in 1979 mentions the triad of gods called Salm, Ashima and Sengalla. An inscribed block found alongside it shows a priest worshipping an altar surmounted with a bull's head, with the winged sun-disc, a crescent and Venus shown above them. Von Klaus Beyer and Alasdair Livingstone took these to be astral symbols of the triad and Sin to be a part of Sengalla, thus concluding him to be a lunar god while seeing Salm as a solar god and Ashima as Venus. \n\nReligious worship amongst the Qedarites, an ancient tribal confederation that was probably subsumed into Nabatea around the 2nd century AD, was centered around a polytheistic system in which women rose to prominence. Divine images of the gods and goddesses worshipped by Qedarite Arabs, as noted in Assyrian inscriptions, included representations of Atarsamain, Nuha, Ruda, Dai, Abirillu and Atarquruma. The female guardian of these idols, usually the reigning queen, served as a priestess (\"apkallatu\", in Assyrian texts) who communed with the other world. Inscriptions in a North Arabian dialect in the region of Najd referring to Nuha describe emotions as a gift from him. In addition, they also refer to Ruda being responsible for all things good and bad. Atarsamain or the \"Morning Star of Heaven\" was identified with Venus, though its gender is unknown. The god was worshipped across North Arabia. There is also evidence that the Qedar worshipped Al-lāt to whom the inscription on a silver bowl from a king of Qedar is dedicated. In the Babylonian Talmud, which was passed down orally for centuries before being transcribed c. 500 AD, in tractate Taanis (folio 5b), it is said that most Qedarites worshiped pagan gods.\n\nIn Edessa, the solar deity was the primary god around the time of the Roman Emperor Julian and this worship was brought in by migrants from Arabia. Julian's oration delivered to the denizens of the city mentioned that they worshipped the Sun surrounded by Azizos and Monimos whom Iamblichus identified with Ares and Hermes respectively. Monimos derived from \"Mu'nim\" or \"the favourable one\", and was another name of Ruda or Ruldaiu as apparent from spellings of his name in Sennacherib's Annals.\n\nThe Midianites, a people referred to in the Book of Genesis and located in north-western Arabia, may have worshipped Yahweh. Indeed, some scholars believe that Yahweh was originally a Midianite god and that he was subsequently adopted by the Israelites. An Egyptian temple of Hathor continued to be used during the Midianite occupation of the site, although images of Hathor were defaced suggesting Midianite opposition. They transformed it into a desert tent-shrine set up with a copper sculpture of a snake.\n\nAbgal (cognate with the Sumerian ab.gal, related to the Akkadian Apkallu, \"ferryman\") was a pre-Islamic north Arabian god, known from the Palmyrian desert regions as a god of Bedouins and camel drivers.\n\nMaan, an Arabic god, was worshipped alongside Abgal in a temple dedicated in 195 A.D. at Khirbet Semrin in the Palmyrene region while an inscription dated 194 A.D. at Ras esh-Shaar calls him the \"good and bountiful god\". A stele at Ras esh-Shaar shows him riding a horse with a lance while the god Saad is riding a camel. Abgal, Maan and Saad were known as the \"genii\".\n\nThe god Ashar was represented on a stele in Dura-Europos alongside another god Saad. The former was represented on a horse with Arab dress while the other was shown standing on the ground. Both had Parthian hairstyle, large facial hair and moustaches as well as similar clothing. Ashar's name is found to have been used in a Theophoric manner among the Arab-majority areas of the region of the Northwest Semitic languages, like Hatra, where names like \"Refuge of Ashar\", \"Servant of Ashar\" and \"Ashar has given\" are recorded on an inscription.\n\nA god called Datin is often found to be mentioned in Thamudic inscriptions, the etymology of his name and his function are unknown. The Anazzah tribe are mentioned by Ibn al-Kalbi to have worshipped a god called Su'ayr. The idol of Al-Uqaysir was worshipped by Syrians, Quda'a, Banu Lakhm and Banu Judham. The pilgrimage to this idol involved men shaving their heads and mixing the hair with wheat. \n\nThe god al-Kutba' is mentioned in Lihyanite inscriptions while Dhu-Ghabat was their primary god. Baalshamin was worshipped by Safaitic speaking people and is mentioned in Safaitic inscriptions. The worship of the Hermonian gods Leucothea and Theandrios was spread from Phoenicia till Arabia.\n\nIbn al-Kalbi stated that the idol of al-Fals belonged to the Tayy while an idol of Wadd existed at Dumat al-Jandal. Nukhay was worshipped among the Safaitic and Thamudic people.\n\nThe Dilmun civilization, which existed along the Persian Gulf coast and Bahrain until the 6th century BC, worshipped a pair of deities, Inzak and Meskilak. It is not known whether these were the only deities in the pantheon or whether there were others. The discovery of wells at the sites of a Dilmun temple and a shrine suggests that sweet water played an important part in religious practices.\n\nIn the subsequent Greco-Roman period, there is evidence that the worship of non-indigenous deities was brought to the region by merchants and visitors. These included Bel, a god popular in the Syrian city of Palmyra, the Mesopotamian deities Nabu and Shamash, the Greek gods Poseidon and Artemis as well as the west Arabian deities Kahl and Manat.\n\nThe Bedouin were introduced to Meccan ritualistic practices as they frequented settled towns of the Hejaz during the four months of the \"holy truce\", the first three of which were devoted to religious observance, while the fourth was set aside for trade. Alan Jones infers from Bedouin poetry that the gods, even Allah, were less important to the Bedouins than Fate. They seem to have had little trust in rituals and pilgrimages as means of propitiating Fate, but had recourse to divination and soothsayers (\"kahins\"). The Bedouins regarded some trees, wells, caves and stones as sacred objects, either as fetishes or as means of reaching a deity. They created sanctuaries where people could worship fetishes.\n\nThe Bedouins had a code of honour which Fazlur Rahman Malik states may be regarded as their religious ethics. This code encompassed women, bravery, hospitality, honouring one's promises and pacts, and vengeance. They believed that the ghost of a slain person would cry out from the grave until their thirst for blood was quenched. Practices such as killing of infant girls were often regarded as having religious sanction. Numerous mentions of jinn in the Quran and testimony of both pre-Islamic and Islamic literature indicate that the belief in spirits was prominent in pre-Islamic Bedouin religion. However, there is evidence that the word jinn is derived from Aramaic, where it was used by Christians to designate pagan gods reduced to the status of demons, and was introduced into Arabic folklore only late in the pre-Islamic era. Julius Wellhausen has observed that such spirits were thought to inhabit desolate, dingy and dark places and that they were feared. One had to protect oneself from them, but they were not the objects of a true cult.\n\nBedouin religious experience also included an apparently indigenous cult of ancestors. The dead were not regarded as powerful, but rather as deprived of protection and needing charity of the living as a continuation of social obligations beyond the grave. Only certain ancestors, especially heroes from which the tribe was said to derive its name, seem to have been objects of real veneration.\n\nA thriving community of Jewish tribes existed in pre-Islamic Arabia and included both sedentary and nomadic communities. Jews had migrated into Arabia from Roman times onwards. Arabian Jews spoke Arabic as well as Hebrew and Aramaic and had contact with Jewish religious centers in Babylonia and Palestine. The Yemeni Himyarites converted to Judaism in the 4th century, and some of the Kindah, a tribe in central Arabia who were their vassals, were also converted in the 4th/5th century. Jewish tribes existed in all major Arabian towns during Muhammad's time including in Tayma and Khaybar as well as Medina with twenty tribes living in the peninsula. From tomb inscriptions, it is visible that Jews also lived in Mada'in Saleh and Al-`Ula.\n\nThere is evidence that Jewish converts in the Hejaz were regarded as Jews by other Jews and non-Jews alike and have sought advice from Babylonian rabbis on matters of attire and kosher food. In at least one case, it is known that an Arab tribe agreed to adopting Judaism as a condition for settling in a town dominated by Jewish inhabitants. Some Arab women in Yathrib/Medina are said to have vowed making their child a Jew if the child survived, since they considered the Jews to be people \"of knowledge and the book\" (\"`ilmin wa-kitābin\"). Philip Hitti infers from proper names and agricultural vocabulary that the Jewish tribes of Yathrib consisted mostly of Judaized clans of Arabian and Aramaean origin.\n\nThe key role played by Jews in the trade and markets of the Hejaz meant that market day for the week was the day preceding the Jewish Sabbath. This day, which was called \"aruba\" in Arabic, also provided occasion for legal proceedings and entertainment, which in turn may have influenced the choice of Friday as the day of Muslim congregational prayer. Toward the end of the sixth century, the Jewish communities in the Hejaz were in a state of economic and political decline, but they continued to flourish culturally in and beyond the region. They had developed their distinctive beliefs and practices, with a pronounced mystical and eschatological dimension. In the Islamic tradition, based on a phrase in the Quran, Arabic Jews are said to have referred to Uzair as the son of Allah, although historical accuracy of this assertion has been disputed.\n\nJewish agriculturalists lived in the region of Eastern Arabia. According to Robert Bertram Serjeant, the Baharna may be the Arabized \"descendants of converts from Christians (Arameans), Jews and ancient Persians (Majus) inhabiting the island and cultivated coastal provinces of Eastern Arabia at the time of the Arab conquest\". From the Islamic sources, it seems that Judaism was the religion most followed in Yemen. Ya'qubi claimed all Yemenites to be Jews, Ibn Hazm however states only Himyarites and some Kindites were Jews.\n\nThe main areas of Christian influence in Arabia were on the north eastern and north western borders and in what was to become Yemen in the south. The north west was under the influence of Christian missionary activity from the Roman Empire where the Ghassanids, a client kingdom of the Romans, were converted to Christianity. In the south, particularly at Najran, a centre of Christianity developed as a result of the influence of the Christian Kingdom of Axum based on the other side of the Red Sea in Ethiopia. Some of the Banu Harith had converted to Christianity. One family of the tribee built a large church at Najran called \"Deir Najran\", also known as the \"Ka'ba of Najran\". Both the Ghassanids and the Christians in the south adopted Monophysitism. \n\nThe third area of Christian influence was on the north eastern borders where the Lakhmids, a client tribe of the Sassanians, adopted Nestorianism, being the form of Christianity having the most influence in the Sassanian Empire. As the Persian Gulf region of Arabia increasingly fell under the influence of the Sasanians from the early third century, many of the inhabitants were exposed to Christianity following the eastward dispersal of the religion by Mesopotamian Christians. However, it was not until the fourth century that Christianity gained popularity in the region with the establishment of monasteries and a diocesan structure. In 1986, the remains of a church thought to date to the 4th century were discovered in Jubail in eastern Saudi Arabia.\n\nIn pre-Islamic times, the population of Eastern Arabia consisted of Christianized Arabs (including Abd al-Qays) and Aramean Christians among other religions. Syriac functioned as a liturgical language. Serjeant states that the Baharna may be the Arabized descendants of converts from the original population of Christians (Aramaeans), among other religions at the time of Arab conquests. Beth Qatraye which translates \"region of the Qataris\" in Syriac was the Christian name used for the region encompassing north-eastern Arabia. It included Bahrain, Tarout Island, Al-Khatt, Al-Hasa, and Qatar. Oman and the United Arab Emirates constituted the diocese known as Beth Mazunaye. The name was derived from 'Mazun', the Persian name for Oman and the United Arab Emirates. Sohar was the central city of the diocese.\n\nIn Nejd, in the centre of the peninsula, there is evidence of members of two tribes, Kindah and Taghlib, converting to Christianity in the 6th century. However, in the Hejaz in the west, whilst there is evidence of the presence of Christianity, it is not thought to have been significant amongst the indigenous population of the area.\n\nArabicized Christian names were fairly common among pre-Islamic Arabians, which has been attributed to the influence that Syrianized Christian Arabs had on bedouins of the peninsula for several centuries before the rise of Islam.\n\nNeal Robinson, based on verses in the Quran, believes that some Arab Christians may have held unorthodox beliefs such as the worshipping of a divine triad of God the father, Jesus the Son and Mary the Mother. Furthermore, there is evidence that unorthodox groups such as the Collyridians, whose adherents worshiped Mary, were present in Arabia, and it has been proposed that the Qur'an refers to their beliefs. However, other scholars, notably Mircea Eliade, William Montgomery Watt, G.R. Hawting and Sidney H. Griffith, cast doubt on the historicity or reliability of such references in the Quran.\n\nIranian religions existed in pre-Islamic Arabia on account of Sasanian military presence along the Persian Gulf and South Arabia and on account of trade routes between the Hejaz and Iraq. Some Arabs in northeast of the peninsula converted to Zoroastrianism and several Zoroastrian temples were constructed in Najd. Some of the members from the tribe of Banu Tamim had converted to the religion. There is also evidence of existence of Manichaeism in Arabia as several early sources indicate a presence of \"zandaqas\" in Mecca, although the term could also be interpreted as referring to Mazdakism. There is evidence for the circulation of Iranian religious ideas in the form of Persian loan words in Quran such as \"firdaws\" (paradise).\n\nZoroastrianism was also present in Eastern Arabia and Persian-speaking Zoroastarians lived in the region. They were known as \"Majoos\" in pre-Islamic times. The religion was introduced in the region including modern-day Bahrain during the rule of Persian empires in the region starting from 250 B.C. It was mainly practiced in Bahrain by Persian settlers. Zorastrianism was also practiced in the Persian-ruled area of modern-day Oman. The religion also existed in Persian-ruled area of modern Yemen. The descendants of Abna, the Persian conquerors of Yemen, were followers of Zorastrianism. Yemen's Zoroastrians who had the jizya imposed on them after being conquered by Muhammad are mentioned by the Islamic historian al-Baladhuri. According to Serjeant, the Baharna people may be the Arabized descendants of converts from the original population of ancient Persians (majus) as well as other religions.\n\n"}
{"id": "27179595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27179595", "title": "Sentencing Reform Act", "text": "Sentencing Reform Act\n\nThe Sentencing Reform Act, part of the Comprehensive Crime Control Act of 1984, was a U.S. federal statute intended to increase consistency in United States federal sentencing. It established the United States Sentencing Commission. It also abolished federal parole, except for persons convicted under federal law before November 1, 1987, persons convicted under District of Columbia law, \"transfer treaty\" inmates, persons who violated military law who are in federal civilian prisons, and persons who are defendants in state cases and who are under the U.S. Marshals Service Witness Protection Program.\n\nThe act was passed by large majorities in both houses of Congress.\n"}
{"id": "55123028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55123028", "title": "Serbs of Finland", "text": "Serbs of Finland\n\nSerbs in Finland are an ethnic minority, mostly concentrated in Helsinki. According to estimates in 2007, there are approximately four thousand Serbs living permanently in Finland. The number of Finns of Serbian descent is unknown.\n"}
{"id": "44041035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44041035", "title": "Sexism in the technology industry", "text": "Sexism in the technology industry\n\nSexism in the technology industry is occupational sexism in the technology industry. It has been variously argued in the media that a high ratio of men to women, graduation rates for engineering degrees, and the culture of the industry itself cause sexism in the technology industry.\n\nIn 1997, Anita Borg, then senior researcher at Digital Equipment Corporation, complained that women \"run into subtle sexism every day\". At the time, only 5.6% of Silicon Valley technology companies were represented by women.\n\n\"The Athena Factor\" is a research report that the Harvard Business Review published in June 2008 to address the future of the technology industry in the United States. The report proposed solutions to a looming shortage in workers in the science, engineering, and technology field. The report suggested that rather than hiring immigrants, there are many women native to the United States to fill the positions.\n\nIn 1970, 13.6% of U.S. computer science and information science bachelor's degrees were awarded to women. By 1984, that number rose to 37.1%. In 2011, however, only 17.6% of undergraduate computer science degrees went to women.\n\nIn May 2014, Google posted on its official blog that only 30 percent of its employees globally were women.\n\nIn January 2015, the \"New York Times\" said \"the largest technology companies have released reports showing that only 30% of their employees are women\", with the percentage of technical employees being even lower.\n\nA Fortune Magazine review of data available for the 92 US-based venture capital firms which had raised \"at least one fund of $200 million or more\" between 2009-2014 found \"only 17 had even one senior female partner\", and 4.2% of \"partner level VCs\" were female.\n\nAn Open Diversity Data website has been created to provide access to diversity data for specific companies.\n\nOnly 11% of Silicon Valley executives and about 20% of software developers are women. At Google, only 18% of technical employees are women. On Forbes' 2015 Top Tech Investors list, of 100 investors, only 5% are women. Women in technology earn less than men, with men earning up to 61% more than women. \"Bias against women in tech is pervasive\", according to an October 2014 op-ed in \"The New York Times\".\n\nA 2015 survey entitle \"The Elephant in the Valley\" conducted a survey of two hundred senior-level women in Silicon Valley. 84% of participants were told they were \"too aggressive\" in the office, and 66% said that they were excluded from important events due to their gender. In addition, 60% of women said that they received unwanted sexual advances in their respective workplaces – the majority of which came from a superior. Almost 40% did not report the incidents out of fear of retaliation.\n\nThe \"New York Times\" obtained a copy of Google's Salary Spreadsheet in 2014, which depicts each employee's salary and bonus information. This spreadsheet reports that at Google, women receive lower salaries than their male counterparts for five out of six job titles that are listed on the spreadsheet.\n\nIn 1997, Anita Borg, then a senior researcher at Digital Equipment Corporation (DEC) complained that women \"run into subtle sexism every day.\" At the time only one woman, Carol Bartz of Autodesk, was a chief executive officer (CEO) among the largest Silicon Valley technology companies, and only 5.6% of the area's 1,686 major tech firms were run by women. It was even harder for female entrepreneurs. Of the $33.5 billion in venture capital invested in tech from 1991 through the second quarter of 1996, only 1.6% went to companies launched or headed by women.\n\nThe 2015 Crunchies award event, organized by Silicon Valley tech industry blogs, was criticized for its use of derogatory language towards women.\n\nMultiple gender harassment and discrimination lawsuits in Silicon Valley have received media attention. One of the most widely reported was Pao v. Kleiner Perkins, a discrimination lawsuit against Kleiner Perkins by then Reddit interim CEO Ellen Pao, which went to trial in 2015. Pao's lawsuit, which alleged that Kleiner Perkins indulged in double standards and denied her the senior partner position, resulted in a verdict for the defendant. Three jurors cited Pao's \"increasingly negative performance reviews\" as the primary reason.\n\nOn September 20, 2016, Tesla employee AJ Vandermayden filed a lawsuit against her company alleging sex discrimination, retaliation, and other workplace violations. Vandermayden brought about this lawsuit after learning her salary was lower than those of the eight other employees, all male, with whom she worked most closely, despite the fact that some of them had just finished college. She was also subjected to a much harsher standard in order to receive a promotion and pay raise that many of her male colleagues had received simply for working at the company for a certain period of time.\n\nThere are several possible causes and theories behind sexism in the technology industry.\n\nSome scholars studying discrimination in the tech industry argue that since decision-makers in the tech industry often believe that men are inherently more technically competent than women, they think that it is economically a better investment to employ male tech personnel and to give higher budgets to the male staff than to the female staff. According to this model, those investments lead to more opportunities for male staff to produce high quality results, which in turn reinforces the statistical bias and is used as an argument for male technical superiority, causing a self-fulfilling prophecy. These scholars argue that the main problem is not unconscious bias, but conscious belief in allegedly scientific notions of sex differences, citing that the percentage of women in the highest quality tech work have decreased despite a decline in traditional and unconscious gender bias and quotas of women at lower levels of tech (though supposedly scientific claims of sex differences have increased and can account for the increased discrimination at top tech). While this model states that there is systematic discrimination towards women in tech, it explains it as a result of specific economical investment issues and does not presume a society-wide patriarchal structure nor even that discrimination must necessarily favor men in all aspects of society.\n\nMen are typically more authoritative and influential than women. In tasks that are perceived as masculine by society, women have less influence and are not considered experts. Only when a task is stereotyped as feminine will a women have more influence or authority than a man. Violating gender-stereotypic norms results in social penalties.Men are believed to be more self-assertive and motivated to master their environment [while] women are believed to be more selfless and concerned with others.\nAccording to studies of early childhood development in human children, boys preferred technical toys (e.g. wheeled vehicles) while girls preferred social toys (e.g. furry animals). The same obtains for non-human children: rhesus and vervet monkeys, who cannot be said to be \"socialized\". Thus sex-based preferences for STEM subjects are innate and assuming third-party bias is wrong in itself.\n\nThere are various criticisms of these claims however. One is citing that since infants interact with other humans from birth, if only their parents, and rapidly absorb accents, the concept of a pre-socialized stage is spurious. These critics argue that the monkeys that have been studied in primatology are ones that have lived close to human settlements and imitated human habits, and are therefore not non-socialized either. Other critics buy the existence of a pre-socialized stage, though they argue that there would be no evolutionary function for a brain mechanism that starts to distinguish social phenomena from other phenomena before socialization starts. Therefore, these authors argue, distinctions between toys that predate socialization are unrelated to interests later in life.\n\nThere are primatologists who argue that since female chimpanzees in some groups hunt and use tools at least as much as the males, there is no innate universal primate bias towards technology being male.\n\nAgainst the cultural deterministic approach, the Norwegian documentary Hjernevask presented a few arguments that cause a widespread debate, particularly with the first episode, The Gender Equality Paradox, which also might have contributed to the Scandinavian government's decision to stop funding the regional gender studies institute.\n\nA 2006 project run and sponsored by private sector (and thus not peer-reviewed by academia), the \"Hidden Brain Drain\", analyzed the careers of women in SET industries. According to the authors of the post-project review, the following characteristic of the SET culture, sometimes called the \"Athena Effect\" may exclude women workers:\n\nDespite the satisfaction that many women find in science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) careers, studies show that a main reason young women do not engage in STEM from an early age may be cultural messages inclining them to other subjects. Women be uncomfortable engaging in STEM. However, the technology industry itself is not solely responsible for the lack of women in STEM careers. According to Brown and Leaper, \"Many parents tend to have higher expectations of sons over daughters in math, science, computers, and sports\". Therefore, childhood upbringing may also contribute to the alleged gender bias in the technology industry.\n\nAccording to an essay in \"The Atlantic\", women leave the tech industry at twice the rate men do. In addition to this, according to different studies, there is an imbalanced gender ratio in the technology industry to begin with. Women are estimated to only make up 25% of employees in the industry. Furthermore, 11% of executives in the technology industry are women. Google has released the gender breakdown for just their company: 17% of the company's employee's are women. Since men are a majority in the industry, corporate events and industry conferences tend to cater to their taste, occasionally in ways which some women perceive as hostile, such as by hiring sexually provocative female performers and product promoters. Instances of sexual harassment at such events are also widely reported. This along with more subtle hostility such as offensive male humor can turn women away from the industry, further exacerbating the demographic imbalance already present.\n\nThe principle of sexual harassment has only recently been recognized by the federal government as a legal issue. The first reported case that led to the recognition of sexual harassment as a legal concept was in 1977, in which a woman was fired from her job for refusing her boss' sexual advances. Nine years later, in 1986, the Supreme Court recognized cases like these as sexual harassment and as a violation of the Civil Rights Act. Still, the idea of sexual harassment was not truly recognized by the public until a 1991 case against a Supreme Court nominee was brought forward to Congress. Overall, sexual harassment was not fully recognized by the United States until the late 1900s, yielding a lack of reported incidents up until that point, as well as an increasing, but not yet fully developed, public awareness of the issue.\n\nAs of 2004, only 4% of the engineering workforce in the UK were women. In information technology (IT), the Dice Salary Survey estimated that between 2008 and 2009, women earned an average of 12.43% less in salary than males. However, it is unclear if the Dice survey specifically addresses sexist discrimination as a possible cause for women to earn lower average salaries in technology, or if the pay gap between men and women can be accounted for by differences in training, seniority, competence, overtime, or other variables that can effect salary. In addition to unequal pay, one study suggests that women are often excluded from informal work networks and become targets of bullying such as sexual harassment.\n\nCurrent gender roles and expectations may hold back women from entering, sustaining, and advancing in the technology field. To combat sexism in technology, researchers have suggested that companies take responsibility and change their organizational structure issues instead of expecting women to adapt to the current state of the work environment. One proposed change would be to have more than simple diversity programs; companies need to ensure that their work environments allow people with various backgrounds and thought processes to work collaboratively to achieve organizational objectives. According to Schiebinger, women should not assimilate to the profession, they should modify it; increased minorities in IT means nothing if there is an unaccommodating industry. Ray McCarthy, a Middle School technology education teacher, believes that schools have a role to play in the solution to sexism in technology industry. He suggests classrooms have a welcoming feel that engages all students, validate their interests, and support positive inquiry.\n\nAnother proposed solution is presented by Project include, a nonprofit organization that was established with the purpose of giving everyone a fair chance to succeed in the technology industry. Using the three key values of inclusion, comprehensiveness, and accountability, the organization works to find solution to diversity and inclusion issues that are present in the technology industry. \n\n\nIn July 2014, a young, male computer science major at Yale College wrote in \"Forbes\" that although women only constitute 16% of the tech workforce, they also only account for 18% of computer science undergraduate degrees awarded to U.S. residents. He opined that the low numbers boiled down to \"ultra-capable, math-savvy women\" having \"a different profile of interests, on average, than their male counterparts.\"\n\nForbes columnist Joseph Steinberg wrote of witnessing multiple sexist situations, including a technology company founder referred to as a \"Booth Babe\" at a trade show. He blamed disproportionate technology-industry sexism, and a low number of females in the field, on a large number of computing-related startup companies hiring primarily young workers, thereby creating \"an environment in which many firms' technical teams consist largely of workers who are just out of college, sometimes giving the businesses fraternity-like cultures, leading to sexism that discourages female participation.\" Douglas Macmillan of \"Bloomberg Businessweek\" has referred to this phenomenon as \"brogrammer culture\".\n\nA cover story appearing on the January 15, 2015 issue of \"Newsweek\" magazine, titled \"What Silicon Valley Thinks of Women\" proved controversial, both due to its illustration, described as \"the cartoon of a faceless female in spiky red heels, having her dress lifted up by a cursor arrow\", and its content, described as \"a 5,000-word article on the creepy, sexist culture of the tech industry\". Among those offended by the cover were Today Show co-host Tamron Hall, who commented \"I think it's obscene and just despicable, honestly.\" Newsweek editor in chief James Impoco explained \"We came up with an image that we felt represented what that story said about Silicon Valley ... If people get angry, they should be angry.\" The article's author, Nina Burleigh commented, \"Where were all these offended people when women like Heidi Roizen published accounts of having a venture capitalist stick her hand in his pants under a table while a deal was being discussed?\"\n\nIn 2012, women created \"creeper move\" cards, in red, yellow, and green, to hand out at the DEF CON security conference as an indication of what they perceived to be inappropriate behavior from men. The conference in 2013 featured a game show called \"Hacker Jeopardy\" (a spoof of Jeopardy!), in which hostess Vinyl Vanna presided by removing an article of clothing with each correct answer.\n\nIn March 2013 at PyCon, attendee Adria Richards overheard a conversation by two men where they joked about a \"dongle\" as well as saying they'd \"like to fork his [the speaker's] repo\" (a non-sexual phrase meaning they'd like to build on the speaker's code). She photographed the men and Tweeted their photo to complain to the Pycon staff. This led to a controversy that came to be known as Donglegate, which included counterpoints that Richards herself had recently made jokes online about the penis size of a man. As a result, one of the men was fired along with Richards herself.\n\nIn September 2013, an application called Titstare made its debut at the TechCrunch Disrupt conference. Its subject, men staring at women's breasts, proved too much for several commentators. After he defended the app against allegations of misogyny on Twitter, \"Business Insider\" Chief technology officer Pax Dickinson was forced to resign. Dickinson later wrote an apology, which was published on VentureBeat. His cofounder and former business partner, Elissa Shevinsky, wrote an article titled \"That's It — I'm Finished Defending Sexism In Tech\", and said \"I had defended DefCon's right to do whatever they want. I had suggested on Twitter that Women 2.0 and the Hacker Dojo start an alternative security conference. I was wrong. I take this back. We shouldn't have to.\" Much of the criticism appeared on Twitter, with one representative tweet stating, \"There goes my attempt to teach my 9 [year old] girl how welcoming tech industry is to women.\"\n\nAt the 2015 SXSW festival, White House Chief Technology Officer Megan Smith was interrupted multiple times by Google's Executive Chairman Eric Schmidt during a panel discussion on \"Sexism in Technology\". The head of Google's Unconscious Bias program pointed this out during the discussion and received applause from the audience.\n\nOn October 5, 2015, software developer Sarah Sharp, known for contributing USB3 support to Linux and coordinating Outreachy, revealed that she had stopped writing kernel patches after feeling antagonized and seeing what she called \"subtle sexist or homophobic jokes\" on the mailing list. Although noting that the community's lack of resources was partially to blame, she referred to past discussions in which she sharply criticized the attitudes of Linus Torvalds and Ingo Molnár. The following day, Matthew Garrett stated that he would also leave kernel development and agreed with Sharp's assessment of Torvalds' communication style. One kernel developer, James Bottomley, urged them to reconsider and stated that the mailing list had made efforts to increase civility in the two years since the most vocal clashes involving Sharp.\n\nOne month after the posts by Sarah Sharp, Eric S. Raymond addressed readers to claim that women's advocacy groups were looking for opportunities to accuse Linus Torvalds and other open source figures of sexual assault at technical conferences. The post contained logs of an IRC chat with an anonymized contact who claimed that the Ada Initiative had such goals. The source claimed that \"They have made multiple runs at him.\", and as a result he was no longer willing to risk mentoring women who are already in the technology industry. He then elaborated that Linus Torvalds no longer spends any time alone at conferences, to which Eric S. Raymond responded by stating that he would take his source's implied advice.\n\nIn 2015, Ellen Pao, an employee at Caufield & Byers, accused the firms of creating an environment riddled with sexism that greatly impacted her career. On a business trip for the firm, an incident occurred in which a male employee came to her hotel room and propositioned her. The firm neglected to recognize the behavior of this man as sexual harassment, even though other similar incidents about this individual had been reported.\n\nGender-discrimination cases in the technology industry often concern not only gender, but race as well. Women of color are affected especially by gender-discrimination as they face two vectors of oppression: sexism and racism. It has been reported in a 2014 diversity report that women make up 17% of Google's employees. In that same report, it was found that Hispanics make up 2% of Google's workers and African-Americans make up only 1%. Because it is a field that is viewed as a meritocracy, tech companies are often hesitant to change the demographic of their employees.\n\nWhile speaking at the Grace Hopper Celebration of Women in Computing on 9 October 2014, Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella responded to a request for what his advice would be for women who are uncomfortable asking for a raise. Nadella stated: \"It's not really about asking for the raise, but knowing and having faith that the system will actually give you the right raises as you go along,\" Nadella said, according to a recording on the website of the event.\n\n\"Because that's good karma,\" Nadella continued. \"It'll come back because somebody's going to know that's the kind of person that I want to trust.\"\n\nAfter the comments produced a strong backlash in the media and in social media, Nadella issued an apology, \"Was inarticulate re how women should ask for raise. Our industry must close gender pay gap so a raise is not needed because of a bias\" he tweeted several hours after his remarks.\n\nMicrosoft also issued a memo on its website in which Nadella wrote: \"I answered that question completely wrong,\" said the memo. \"I believe men and women should get equal pay for equal work. And when it comes to career advice on getting a raise when you think it's deserved, Maria's advice was the right advice. If you think you deserve a raise, you should just ask.\"\n\nIn November 2013, a HASTAC user named Arielle Schlesinger, studying the relation between feminist theory and programming paradigms, made a post soliciting feedback on the creation of a feminist programming language. \n\nLater that year, a group calling itself the Feminist Software Foundation released a language called \"C Plus Equality\" with syntax similar to C++. Although announced as the type of feminist programming language that Schlesinger had in mind, the alleged purpose of the code was satirizing the social justice–oriented part of Internet culture and included numerous references to rape, boogeyman and trigger warnings.\n\nC+= was originally posted to GitHub but was removed on December 14 after numerous complaints of sexism. The repository was moved to Bitbucket but after a debate with the legal team, it was removed on December 19. The code is currently hosted on Gitorious and has since reappeared on GitHub.\n\nAn internal memo on Google's ideological stance toward diversity, where it is argued that Google had shut down the conversation about diversity, and suggested that gender inequality in the technology industry was, in part, due to biological differences between men and women.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7939744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7939744", "title": "Sherpao", "text": "Sherpao\n\nThe Sherpao is a subgroup of the Muhammadzai (Charsadda) tribe. As their name suggests, they are found in the village of Sherpao in the Hashtnagar area of Charsadda District, Pakistan. Sherpao, the common ancestor of the subgroup, was the grandson of Muhammad, the common ancestor of the Muhammadzai tribe. According to Captain Hastings in 1878, the Sherpao had only one high-land hamlet named Dakai, as their other lands were lost to surrounding tribes.\n\nThe Sherpao family has played a very prominent role in Pakistani politics. Khan Bahadur Ghulam Haider Khan Sherpao was a prominent leader in the Pakistan movement. His son Hayat Sherpao was a founder of the Pakistan People's Party (PPP) and the youngest governor of the North-West Frontier Province (current Khyber Pakhtunkhwa) before his life was cut short by a tragic assassination at Peshawar University on February 8, 1975. His assassination has had a profound effect on the political landscape of Pakistan and still continues to be relevant in the politics of the country. His younger brother, Aftab Ahmad Sherpao, is one of the most senior and recognized political leaders of the country and continues to play an active role in politics in his neo-nationalist party Qaumi Watan Party, and in the past served as Pakistan's Interior minister, Pakistan's Minister for Water & Power, besides being Minister for Kashmir Affairs and Northern Areas and States and Frontier Regions, before having twice served as the Chief Minister of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa. Aftab Ahmad Sherpao is the current Khan of Sherpao.\n"}
{"id": "28162544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28162544", "title": "The Joan Ganz Cooney Center", "text": "The Joan Ganz Cooney Center\n\nThe Joan Ganz Cooney Center (informally, the Cooney Center) is an independent, non-profit, non-partisan research and innovation group founded by Sesame Workshop in order to advance children's literacy skills and foster innovation in children's learning through digital media.\n\nThe Joan Ganz Cooney Center was founded in 2007 to study the role of digital technologies in promoting childhood literacy particularly among elementary school age children. According to the organization's mission statement, the Cooney Center exists \"to advance children’s literacy skills and foster innovation in children’s learning through digital media.\"\n\nThe Cooney Center focuses on research, new technologies, and catalyzing policy change. Its activities comprise three primary themes:\n\nThe Cooney Center also hosts periodic events aimed at catalyzing policy and industry change. The 2009 Leadership Forum: Breakthrough Learning in a Digital Age, hosted at the Googleplex, attracted more than 200 thought leaders from the research, policy, education, and industries. In 2011, the Cooney Center hosted its annual leadership forum focusing on scaling up effective models that support children's learning with an emphasis on harnessing the largely untapped potential of digital media, especially for struggling learners. \"Learning From Hollywood: Can Entertainment Media Ignite a Digital Revolution?\" brought together leaders from the creative media industries, education, research, policy, and philanthropy. Recent research publications on the potential of video games and mobile platforms for children's learning have received wide attention in the media and among national and state policymakers.\n\nThe Cooney Center disseminates research that informs national debates, with the intention of \"stimulating investment in effective reforms.\" It does so through its publications on timely topics, including the children's fast evolving, interactive media landscape, mobile learning, and the debates over media multitasking. The Cooney Center's inaugural report was \"The Power of Pow! Wham!: Children, Digital Media and Our Nation's Future\" by Rima Shore, Ph.D.\n\nIn 2014, the Cooney Center published \"Learning at Home: Families' Educational Media Use in America\". For this national survey, data was collected from 1,577 parents on the amount of media used in their home and its educational value. \"What is more, the study, by the Joan Ganz Cooney Center,\" reported the \"New York Times\", \"shows that as children spend more time with screens as they get older, they spend less time doing educational activities, with 8- to 10-year-olds spending about half the time with educational content that 2- to 4-year-olds do.\"\n\n\nThe Cooney Center focuses on four key strategies: action research, innovation and model development, partnership building and dissemination. These strategies reflect the Center's field-building mission, which calls for the creation of new knowledge, the creative application of that knowledge in practice, and the engagement of key decision-makers in making investments to drive innovation and scale up what works.\n\nThe Cooney Center, in collaboration with E-Line Media, hosts the National STEM Video Game Challenge as part of the \"Educate to Innovate\" campaign, which President Barack Obama launched in November 2009 to “harness the excitement and educational potential of video games to advance STEM learning (science, technology, engineering, and math).\"\n\nCooney Center Fellows assist with high priority research, program development and dissemination activities that examine the potential and challenges associated with digital media applications in promoting children's learning and healthy development. In addition, the Center has established a research fund to help support priority areas.\n\nThe Cooney Center, in collaboration with the Stanford Educational Leadership Institute, convened a Digital Age Teacher Preparation Council, co-chaired by Linda Darling-Hammond of Stanford University and Michael Levine. The council's sixteen members from academia, industry, and policy assessed current practices in early education and elementary school teaching and designed a professional development \"blueprint\" to advance the use of effective digital media in teaching and learning, with a special emphasis on instruction for underserved students. The final report was issued on November 1, 2011.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11385109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11385109", "title": "Thomas Patrick Cavanaugh", "text": "Thomas Patrick Cavanaugh\n\nThomas Patrick Cavanaugh is an aerospace engineer who was sentenced in 1985 after being convicted of trying to sell stealth bomber secrets to the Soviet Union.\n\nHe was born in 1945.\n\nCavanaugh was arrested at a hotel in Commerce, California, in December 1984, by FBI agents posing as Soviet spies. Cavanaugh, who worked at Northrop, was debt-ridden, undergoing a divorce, and was \"willing to take $25,000 American dollars in cash for technology that cost the United States billions to develop\". $25,000 in 1984 is .\n\nHe was released from prison on March 1, 2001.\n"}
{"id": "40785036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40785036", "title": "Women in Tuvalu", "text": "Women in Tuvalu\n\nWomen in Tuvalu continue to maintain a traditional Polynesian culture within a predominantly Christian society. Tuvaluan cultural identity is sustained through an individual’s connection to their home island. In the traditional community system in Tuvalu, each family has its own task, or \"salanga\", to perform for the community. The skills of a family are passed on from parents to children. The women of Tuvalu participate in the traditional music of Tuvalu and in the creation of the art of Tuvalu including using cowrie and other shells in traditional handicrafts. There are opportunities of further education and paid employment with non-government organisations (NGOs) and government enterprises, education and health agencies being the primary opportunities for Tuvaluan women.\n\nThe number of women holding positions of Assistant Secretaries in government departments has increased from 20% in 2012 to nearly 50% in 2014. Also at the nine Island Kaupule (Local Councils) the representation of women has increased from 1 in 2012 to 3 in 2014.\n\nWomen participate in the traditional music of Tuvalu which consists of a number of dances, including the \"fatele\", \"fakaseasea\" and the \"fakanau\". The \"fatele\", in its modern form, is performed at weddings, community events and to celebrate leaders and other prominent individuals.\n\nTuvaluan women have access to secondary education at Motufoua Secondary School on Vaitupu and Fetuvalu Secondary School, a day school operated by the Church of Tuvalu, on Funafuti. There are opportunities of further education and paid employment with non-government organisations (NGOs) and government enterprises, education and health agencies being the primary opportunities for Tuvaluan women.\n\nTuvaluan women are primarily involved in traditional agriculture and domestic and community activities. The women of Tuvalu participate in the creation of the art of Tuvalu including using cowrie and other shells in traditional handicrafts. Tuvaluan women participate in sport, such as in the women's football league competition, the Tuvalu A-Division for women, and at international competitions such as representing Tuvalu at the 2015 Pacific Games.\n\nBetween 2004 and 2005 the number of women that obtained a credit from the Development Bank of Tuvalu increased from 16% to 30% compared to the number of men obtaining credit, which increased from 31% to 41%. However, the total loan approval rate is still lower for women at 37% compared to men at 63%, and the total loan value for men accounts for 74% of the total credit given.\n\nRemittances from Tuvaluan men employed abroad as sailors, primarily on cargo ships, is a major source of income for families in Tuvalu. The Global Economic Crisis (GEC) that began in 2007 has impacted on global export-import activities and the demand for shipping, which reduced the need for seafarers from Tuvalu.\n\nGenerally men aged 50 years, and on some islands men aged 60 years, do most of the talking and decision making at meetings of the community councils (\"Falekaupule\"), which are organised according to the law and custom of each island. Although women have the vote in meetings of the Falekaupule on 7 of the 9 islands, but most do no exercise their voting rights. In 2014, Milikini Failautusi, a Tuvaluan activist, said that cultural issues in Tuvalu are preventing women from working in equal partnership with men. For example, women cannot be appointed as an aliki (chief). Ms Failautusi is quoted as saying \"[w]hen it comes to cultures, women they don't [get] to say anything at all. They don't have a say. They only have to sit at the back and support the elders or their husbands or the leaders in their families . . . All they have to do is just support them in terms of looking for money, looking for food, and looking after the babies and the families\".\n\nLife expectancy for Tuvaluan women is 68.41 years as compared to 64.01 years for males (2015 est.).\n\nTuvaluan women have access to health services provided by the Department of Health. There is one hospital, the Princess Margaret Hospital, in Funafuti that provides referral and general health services to support the health clinics on each of Tuvalu’s outer islands. Because Tuvalu is a group of 9 islands, problems in obtaining emergency services can arise for women on the outer islands if complications occur during birth. Infant mortality in Tuvalu was 25 deaths per 1,000 live births in 2012, with an under-five mortality rate of 30 deaths per 1,000 live births. There has been a consistent decline in the under-five mortality rate since 1990.\n\nThe Princess Margaret Hospital is run by 8 medical officers, 20 nurses, 10 paramedical staff and 10 support staff. The other islands have a medical centre manned by two nurses, a nurse assistant and two primary health care workers. \n\nThere are no private formal medical services available in Tuvalu. Non-government organizations provide health services, such as: the Tuvalu Red Cross Society; Fusi Alofa (the care and rehabilitation of disabled children); the Tuvalu Family Health Association (training and support on sexual and reproductive health); and the Tuvalu Diabetics Association (training and support on diabetes).\n\nThroughout the history of the Parliament of Tuvalu following independence in 1978, three women have been elected: Naama Maheu Latasi, from 1989 to 1997 and Pelenike Isaia from 2011 to 2015; and Dr Puakena Boreham who was elected to represent Nui in the 2015 general election.\n\nThe under-representation of women in the Tuvalu parliament was considered in a report commissioned by the Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat in 2005, and was discussed during a consultation entitled “Promoting Women in Decision Making” was held in Funafuti in May 2010. The outcome was a recommendation for the introduction of two new seats, to be reserved for women. The Tuvaluan Ministry for Home Affairs, which has responsibility for women’s affairs, stated that steps would be taken to consider the recommendation.\n\nThe problem of violence against Tuvaluan women was highlighted during a week of events in recognition of International Women's Day in March 2013. The traditional cultural values prevent or discourage women from reporting assaults. Legislative changes are proposed to give the Tuvalu police increased powers and allowing the courts to pass tougher sentences for crimes of violence against women.\n\nIn July 2009 Tuvalu reported on compliance with the 1979 Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW) to the UN CEDAW Committee. The report said that “Committee’s experts expressed concern over the sanctioning of local custom in the [Tuvalu] Constitution and legal system, noting, for example, that husbands were permitted to ‘discipline’ their wives [as well as children]”. As recent many Tuvaluan families have migrated to New Zealand these practices are in direct conflict with New Zealand’s laws and social environment.\n\nIn July 2013 the Pacific Regional Rights Resource Team of the Secretariat of the Pacific Community published drafting options for legislative reform to assist Tuvalu to make changes to the laws and policies relating to violence against women in order to ensure the full protection of women from all forms of violence.\n\nThe UN CEDAW Committee observations on the 2015 review of Tuvalu notes the introduction of new domestic violence legislation, more participation by women in local council meetings and the end of some discriminatory education practices. However the Committee highlighted that women in Tuvalu continue to have low levels of political participation and economic participation. Violence against women is also described as a concern because of the \"cultural and the silence and also impunity and this also really stops women to report the cases.\" The Family Protection and Domestic Violence Act 2014 provides greater protection for women and girls from violence within domestic relationships and also provide for shelters of victims of domestic violence.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7276587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7276587", "title": "Yahya ibn Yahya", "text": "Yahya ibn Yahya\n\nYahya II ibn Yahya () was the sixth Idrisid ruler and sultan of Morocco. He took over after the death of his father Yahya I in 864. He died in 874.\n"}
