{"id": "46494520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46494520", "title": "Adams v. Burke", "text": "Adams v. Burke\n\nAdams v. Burke, 84 U.S. (17 Wall.) 453 (1873), was a United States Supreme Court case in which the Court first elaborated on the exhaustion doctrine. According to that doctrine, a so-called authorized sale of a patented product (one made by the patentee or a person authorized by it to sell the product) liberates the product from the patent monopoly. The product becomes the complete property of the purchaser and \"passes without the monopoly.\" The property owner is then free to use or dispose of it as it may choose, free of any control by the patentee. \"Adams\" is a widely cited, leading case. A substantially identical doctrine applies in copyright law and is known as the \"first sale doctrine\".\n\nAs the Supreme Court recently explained, in \"Kirtsaeng v. John Wiley & Sons, Inc.\", 133 S. Ct. 1351 (2013), the principle comes from early English common law of property, explained in Coke on Littleton early in the 17th Century. Under the common law, if a man is possessed of a chattel (item of personal property) and he transfers his property in it to another, no restriction against the use or disposition of the chattel will be effective, for that would hinder trade and commerce – it would interfere with bargaining among men. If once a patented product was sold and allowed to enter the stream of commerce, if it could be subject to restrictions (perhaps secret) on its use or further disposition, businessmen would not be able to know whether transactions in the product were effective and business certainty would be greatly impaired.\n\nIn 1863, U.S. Patent No. 38,713 issued to the inventors Merrill and Horner for a coffin lid that permitted interested persons to view the name-plate and inscription of the decedent in the coffin, irrespective of whether the coffin cover is open or closed. In 1865 they assigned to Lockhart & Seelye of Cambridge. Massachusetts, the ownership of the patent in a circular area around Boston having a ten-mile radius. Adams, the plaintiff in this case, was the assignee of the patent in an area outside this circle which included the town of Natick, Massachusetts.\n\nBurke, the defendant, was an undertaker doing business in Natick, Massachusetts, seventeen miles from Boston. Burke purchased some patented coffin lids from Lockhart & Seelye, who had manufactured them. Burke then took them to Natick (more than ten miles from Boston), and used them in his business. Adams then sued him.\n\nThe circuit court for the district of Massachusetts dismissed the case. It said:\n\nWhen a patented product passes lawfully into the hands of a purchaser without condition or restriction, it is no longer within the monopoly or under the protection of the patent act, but outside of it. ...It is clear that by such a sale the purchaser acquires an absolute title to the manufactured product which is the subject of a patent, and may deal with It in the same manner as if dealing with any other kind of property. He may use it, repair it, Improve upon it, or sell it. Subsequent purchasers acquire the same rights as the seller had, and may do with the article, or its materials, whatever the first purchaser could have lawfully done if he had not parted with the title.\n\nAdams appealed to the Supreme Court, which affirmed. The Court began by observing that this was a case of first impression in the Supreme Court although the governing principle had been involved in other patent cases. That principle was this:\n[T]he sale by a person who has the full right to make, sell, and use . . . a machine carries with it the right to the use of that machine to the full extent to which it can be used in point of time.  . . . [I]n the essential nature of things, when the patentee, or the person having his rights, sells a machine or instrument whose sole value is in its use, he receives the consideration for its use and he parts with the right to restrict that use. The article, in the language of the Court, passes without the limit of the monopoly. [citation omitted] That is to say the patentee or his assignee having in the act of sale received all the royalty or consideration which he claims for the use of his invention in that particular machine or instrument, it is open to the use of the purchaser without further restriction on account of the monopoly of the patentees.\nAccordingly, the Court ruled that \"we hold that in the class of machines or implements we have described, when they are once lawfully made and sold, there is no restriction on their use to be implied for the benefit of the patentee or his assignees or licensees.\"\n\nSubsequent Supreme Court cases following the doctrine of the \"Adams\" case include:\n\nBut see:\n"}
{"id": "4165986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4165986", "title": "Animal Procedures Committee", "text": "Animal Procedures Committee\n\nThe Animal Procedures Committee advised the British Home Secretary on matters related to animal testing in the UK. The function of the committee was made a statutory requirement by the Animals (Scientific Procedures) Act 1986 (the ASPA), which mandated that it should have at least 12 members, excluding the chair. The APC no longer exists as the ASPA has been revised in accordance with EU legislation. It was disbanded on 31 December 2012 and was replaced by the Animals in Science Committee in 2013.\n\nThe Act stipulated that at least two-thirds of the members had full registration as medical practitioners or veterinary surgeons, or that they be qualified in a relevant biological subject; that one member be a barrister, solicitor, or advocate; that at least half the membership should not have held an animal-testing licence during the last six years; and that the interests of animal welfare should be adequately represented.\n\nThere was normally an academic philosopher on the committee, although this was not required by the Act. \n\nMembers were appointed for terms of up to four years and may be re-appointed once. Apart from the Chair, members received only expenses.\n\nThe committee advised the Home Secretary on matters concerned with the Act and his functions under it; and also to examine other related subjects considered worthy of further study.\n\nThere were four sub-committees: The Applications Sub-committee considered licence applications referred to the Committee for advice; the Education and Training Sub-committee advised on the requirements for training and education of those who held responsibilities under the Act or who carried out duties under the controls of the Act; the Housing and Husbandry Sub-committee considered housing and husbandry issues on a case by case basis as requested by the Committee; the Primate Sub-committee advised on issues relating to the acquisition, housing, care and use of non-human primates in regulated procedures.\n\nIn addition, a number of working groups were established. They were created for a particular task and then disbanded. As of March 2010 there were two working groups: The Revision of Directive 86/609 working group is reviewing the directive; the Suffering and Severity working group is reviewing aspects of the system of severity limits and bands.\n\nAs of March 2010, the committee members (and their professional affiliations) were:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2495471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2495471", "title": "Archology", "text": "Archology\n\nArchology is the study of the science of governance or the origin of things. It is also defined as the theory of first principles of knowledge.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23974672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23974672", "title": "Arthur Callum", "text": "Arthur Callum\n\nArthur \"Dick\" Callum was a New Zealand rugby footballer who was part of the professional 1907-1908 New Zealand rugby tour of Great Britain.\n\nCallum was an insurance agent.\n\nCallum played rugby union for the Melrose Club and represented Wellington in 1905 and 1907.\n\nCallum was selected for the professional All Blacks in their 1907–08 tour of Great Britain and Australia. Like all members of the tour, Gilchrist subsequently received a life ban from the New Zealand Rugby Union. Callum barely played on the tour and instead assisted Albert Baskerville in an administrative capacity. Despite this he played in two test matches near the end of the tour, when injuries had taken their toll.\n"}
{"id": "52287962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52287962", "title": "Ayesha Vardag", "text": "Ayesha Vardag\n\nAyesha Mary Barbara Vardag (born March 1968) is an English solicitor specialising in family law. She has gained notoriety for representing in divorce proceedings high net worth individuals, such members of the Royal Family, heiresses, international footballers, artists, professionals, entrepreneurs and celebrities. Her first case of note came with her Supreme Court victory in the 2010 case \"Radmacher v Granatino\", which shifted the attitude of the law on prenuptial agreements, making courts less reluctant to vary their stipulations in England and Wales.\n\nAyesha Mary Barbara Vardag was born in London, daughter of an English mother and Pakistani father Asaf Vardag, who is a direct descendent of the Lodhi royal family that ruled India in the 16th century. Vardag’s grandfather was active in the Indian National Congress and as its candidate was twice elected mayor of Karachi in undivided India. \n\nVardag grew up in Oxfordshire and read Law at Queens' College, Cambridge, with a Duke of Edinburgh award for membership of the Inner Temple, and took a Masters as a Cambridge Wiener Anspach scholar in European Law at the Université libre de Bruxelles, where she worked extensively on expert research projects at the International Court of Justice in The Hague and at the UN (IAEA) Legal Division in Vienna. \n\nVardag qualified as a solicitor in 1996 and was initially trained as a finance solicitor at Linklaters, where she became the leading specialist in nuclear energy law aged 26. Prior to becoming a family lawyer, she worked for the New York law firm Weil, Gotshal & Manges.\n\nVardag’s training in matrimonial law was as a mini-pupil to Nicholas Mostyn and as one of two assistants to Raymond Tooth, senior partner at Sears Tooth and co-founder of the International Academy of Matrimonial Lawyers, an invitation-only organisation which now consists of over 500 of the world's leading family lawyers. Vardag founded Ayesha Vardag solicitors in 2005, which incorporated as Vardags in May 2010.\n\nHer first case of note was that of \"Radmacher v Granatino\", which strengthened the law on prenuptial agreements in England and Wales. Vardag founded Ayesha Vardag LLP in 2005, which incorporated as Vardags Ltd in May 2010.\n\nIn September 2011 the \"Daily Mail\" reported that Raymond Tooth, accused Vardag of trying to \"pinch\" celebrity clients from him which resulted in an agreed settlement \n\nIn 2010 Vardag made history in a landmark Supreme Court case that changed the law on prenuptial agreements. Acting for German heiress Katrin Radmacher, she won a ruling that the prenup she drew up to protect her £100 million fortune from her French-born husband was legally binding.\n\nIn 2017 Vardag helped former Malaysian beauty queen Pauline Chai secure a settlement of £64 million, one of the largest in history.\n\nVardag is married to Stephen Bence, a financial consultant and a former astrophysicist who is director of strategy at Vardags Ltd. The couple have two sons and a daughter, and the family lives in North London.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12408643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12408643", "title": "Blank endorsement", "text": "Blank endorsement\n\nBlank endorsement of a financial instrument, such as a cheque, is only a signature, not indicating the payee. The effect of this is that it is payable only to the bearer – legally, it transforms an order instrument (\"pay to the \"order of\" (the payee)\") into a bearer instrument (\"pay to the bearer\"). It is one of the types of endorsement of a negotiable instrument.\n\nIt is \"an endorsement consisting of nothing but a signature and allowing any party in possession of the endorsed item to execute a claim.\"\n\nA blank endorsement is a commonly known and accepted term in the legal and business worlds.\n\nThis is also called an \"endorsement in blank\" or \"blank endorsement\". \n\nThe prevalent spelling in American English is \"en\"dorsement; the minority convention, \"in\"dorsement, is found in older American documents, although the revised Uniform Commercial Code Article on negotiable instruments retains the older spelling.\n"}
{"id": "446456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=446456", "title": "Budget process", "text": "Budget process\n\nA budget process refers to the process by which governments create and approve a budget, which is as follows:\n\n\nBudgeting is the setting of expenditure levels for each of an organization’s functions. It is the estimation and allocation of available capital used to achieve the designated targets of a firm.\n\n\nConstitutional economics is the study of the compatibility of economic and financial decisions within existing constitutional law frameworks, and such a framework includes government spending on the judiciary which in many transitional and developing countries is completely controlled by the executive. It is useful to distinguish between the two methods of corruption of the judiciary: corruption by the executive branch, in contrast to corruption by private actors. The standards of constitutional economics can be used during annual budget process, and if that budget planning is transparent then the rule of law may benefit. The availability of an effective court system, to be used by the civil society in situations of unfair government spending and executive impoundment of previously authorized appropriations, is a key element for the success of the rule-of-law endeavor.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51163164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51163164", "title": "California Proposition 65 list of chemicals", "text": "California Proposition 65 list of chemicals\n\nThe following is a list of chemicals published as a requirement of Safe Drinking Water and Toxic Enforcement Act of 1986, commonly known as California Proposition 65, that are \"known to the state to cause cancer or reproductive toxicity\" as of December 29, 2017.\n\n† (CAS) Chemical Abstracts Service Registry Number\n\nComments:\n"}
{"id": "275704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=275704", "title": "Certification mark", "text": "Certification mark\n\nA certification mark (or conformity mark) on a commercial product indicates the existence of an accepted product standard or regulation and a claim that the manufacturer has verified compliance with those standards or regulations. The specific specification, test methods, and frequency of testing are published by the standards organization. Certification listing does not necessarily guarantee fitness for use.\n\nCertification marks differ from collective trade marks. Collective trade marks may be used by particular members of the organization that owns them, while certification marks are the only evidence of the existence of follow-up agreements between manufacturers and nationally accredited testing and certification organizations. In some occasions, the certification organization will charge for the use of their labels and will require that the manufacturer reports the exact production quantities. In this case, the certification organization can be seen to earn a commission from sales of products under their follow-up regimes. In return, the use of the certification marks \"enables\" the product sales in the first place.\n\nCertification is often mistakenly referred to as an \"approval\", which is not true. Organizations such as Underwriters Laboratories, TUV Rheinland, NTA Inc, and CSA International will test the products according to standard procedures, and \"list\" them as compliant to that standard. They do not \"approve\" anything except the use of the mark to show that a product has been certified for compliance with such specific standard. Thus, for instance, a product certification mark for a fire door or for a spray fireproofing product, does not signify its universal acceptance for use within a building. Approvals are up to the Authority Having Jurisdiction (AHJ), such as a municipal building inspector or fire prevention officer. Conversely, FM Global does use the term \"Approvals\" for its certification listings, which are intended for use of the products within buildings that are insured by FM Global. The German accreditor Deutsches Institut für Bautechnik (DIBt) issues \"Approvals\" for systems. All of these listed products must conform to listing and approval use and compliance.\n\nFor various reasons, usually relating to technical issues, certification marks are difficult to register, especially in relation to services. One practical workaround for trademark owners is to register the mark as an ordinary trademark in relation to quality control and similar services.\n\nCertification marks can be owned by independent companies absolutely unrelated in ownership to the companies, offering goods or rendering services under the particular certification mark.\n\nTrademark laws in countries, such as the United States, Australia and others that provide for the filing of applications to register certificate marks also usually require the submission of regulations, which define a number of issues, including:\n\n\nThe main purpose of the regulations is to protect consumers against misleading practices.\n\nMany jurisdictions have been required to amend their trade mark legislation to accommodate protection of certification marks under the TRIPs treaty.\n\nSome jurisdictions recognise certification marks from other jurisdictions. This means good manufactured in one country may need not go through certification in another. One example is the European Union recognition of Australia and New Zealand marks based on an International treaty.\n\nCases involving certification marks include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25058509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25058509", "title": "Charter for Compassion", "text": "Charter for Compassion\n\nThe Charter for Compassion is a document that urges the peoples and religions of the world to embrace the core value of compassion. The charter currently is available in more than 30 languages and has been endorsed by more than two million individuals around the globe.\n\nCharter for Compassion International, the Charter's supporting organization, has enrolled 311 communities in 45 countries in its Compassionate Communities campaign and has partnered with more than 1,300 organizations to spread the Charter's message of compassion in 10 sectors: the arts, business, education, environment, healthcare, peace, religion/spirituality/interfaith, science & research, social sciences and restorative justice. There is no cost to affirm the Charter.\n\nOn February 28, 2008, acclaimed scholar and bestselling author Karen Armstrong won the TED Prize. In her acceptance speech she called for help in creating, launching and propagating a Charter for Compassion, based on the fundamental principle of the Golden Rule. An open writing process to create the Charter began in November 2008 with the launch of the Charter for Compassion website. People of all faiths, nationalities and backgrounds submitted ideas on what the Charter should include. Individuals from more than 100 countries added their voices to this process and their submissions were read and commented upon by more than 150,000 visitors to the site.\n\nThe Council of Conscience, a multi-faith, multi-national group of religious thinkers and leaders, then met in Vevey, Switzerland, to craft the final Charter for Compassion. The Councilors sorted and reviewed the thousands of written submissions, considered the meaning of compassion, determined key ideas to include in the Charter and created a plan for how the Charter will live in the world.\n\nThe Charter for Compassion was unveiled by Karen Armstrong and the Council of Conscience on November 12, 2009, at the National Press Club in Washington, DC. That day, more than 75 launch events took place around the globe and more than 60 Charter for Compassion plaques designed by Yves Behar were hung at significant religious and secular sites around the world. At its launch, the Charter was endorsed by the Dalai Lama and Archbishop Desmond Tutu among many others.\n\nJust a few months after Armstrong was awarded the TED Prize, a partnership of individuals and organizations around the world began coalescing to bring the Charter for Compassion to life. On May 4, 2009, the Compassionate Action Network (CAN) was launched in Seattle. CAN's intention, expressed in its founding document, was to create \"an association of like-minded programs, projects and organizations that collectively represent the power of thousands of relationships.\"\n\nCAN became the home for the Charter for Compassion from the summer of 2012 through December 2013 and provided a wealth of startup assistance to the Charter organization, including staff, fundraising, resource development, and strategic planning.\n\nWith the support of CAN, the Fetzer Institute and many other groups and individuals committed to the Charter's ideals, the Charter for Compassion grew steadily in scale and scope. In January, 2014, almost six years after the TED Prize award, a group of leaders in the movement organized as the Global Compassion Council and formed the Charter for Compassion (CFC) as a non-profit(c)(3) organization. The Global Compassion Council became CCI's advisory panel.\n\nCharter for Compassion's vision is to foster a world where everyone is committed to living by the principle of compassion.\n\nIts mission is to support the emergence of a global movement that brings the Charter for Compassion to life. It does this by being a network of networks—connecting organizers and leaders from around the world; providing educational resources, organizing tools and avenues for communication; sharing lessons, stories and inspiration; and providing an umbrella for Charter for Compassion conferences, events, collaborations, conversations and initiatives to create compassionate communities and institutions around the globe.\n\nThe CFC logo incorporates the ancient symbol for infinity. The symbol has long been used to represent the concept of endless love. CFC's use of the symbol in the context of the Charter for Compassion represents the limitless potential of compassion to transform human relationships, institutions and communities.\n\nTraditional organizational structures are hierarchical: a leader, sometimes in consultation with a board of directors, determines a goal for an enterprise and directs other people to carry out the steps necessary to reach that goal. CFC supports self-organization, believing that sustainable change emerges organically from communities. As such, it facilitates connections between resources, individuals and organizations with the intent of supporting (not controlling) outcomes of increasing compassion. Because it has more than 2,000 partners, and those partners support networks as well, CFC describes itself as a \"network of networks.\" CFC sees networks as the first, critical step in systemic reorganization of the type necessary to make compassion an organizing, luminous force.\n\nThe advisory body for CFC is the Global Compassion Council, which consists of leaders in the global compassion movement from the realms of government, business, education, philanthropy, religion and spirituality, healthcare, the environment, peace and social justice. The CFC governing Board of Trustees is drawn from members of the Council. Board members (2016) are: Rev. Dr. Joan Brown Campbell, president; Dr. James Doty, M.D., vice-president; Toni Murden McClure, treasurer; and the following members: Allan Boesak, Amin Hashwani, Imam Mohamed Magid and Amy Novogratz. Karen Armstrong is an ex-officio member of the Board.\n\nCFC activities largely are delegated to made up primarily of volunteers. Located all over the world, the teams function virtually and, where there are several people in one geographic area, in person. There is a weekly teleconference staff meeting where participants review their work and contribute to and make decisions on current CFC initiatives. Also, many of the volunteers are facilitators on CFC's regularly scheduled sector- and theme-based conference calls.\n\nThe International Teams help support the daily operational work of the Charter, which includes overseeing and contributing to the Charter's website. Additionally, they support and help grow CCI's partner network and its campaigns to encourage compassionate cities and communities. Team volunteers also work on special Charter initiatives such as the Charter Community Tool Box, the Charter Education Institute and informational materials on the Charter.\n\nAt the heart of the Charter for Compassion's work is its Campaign for Compassionate Communities. In the beginning, this effort was focused on building a network of cities, but it soon became evident that communities both larger and smaller than cities wanted to join the movement to embrace compassion as a core value. The Charter's growing network of Compassionate Communities encompasses nearly 50 countries and includes cities, towns, townships, shires, hamlets, villages, neighborhoods, islands, states, provinces, and counties. Of these, more than 76 cities globally have affirmed the Charter for Compassion through city, community councils or other government entities. Affirming the Charter means that a community has identified issues on which they are working, and have committed to a multi-year action plan. A list of participating communities can be found here.\n\nCFC's Compassionate Communities program is not a certificate program that offers a seal of approval, nor does it subscribe to a single definition of a compassionate community. Instead, the Charter invites communities of all sizes to bring compassion to life in practical, specific ways through compassion-driven actions—in neighborhoods, businesses, schools and colleges, healthcare, the arts, local government, peace groups, environmental advocacy groups and faith congregations.\n\nAny individual, group or organization that recognizes the need for greater compassion in a community is encouraged to begin the process for creating a Compassionate Community. While the Charter does not prescribe any one path, it does recommend that the process be designed and carried out by a diverse and inclusive coalition of people so that all voices within the community are heard, and the significant issues are addressed.\n\nThe Charter for Compassion has developed a four-part model or framework, called the Charter Community Tool Box, to help communities build a compassionate society. The Tool Box is intended to provide communities with a starting point and a process to follow, though it is adaptable to the unique circumstances of any community that seeks to become a Compassionate Community. There are four broad phases: Discover and Assess; Focus and Commit; Build and Launch; Evaluate and Sustain. For each of the phases the Tool Box inclludes more specific steps as well as stories and examples. Depending on the community, its particular issues and available resources, this process may take one or more years.\n\nWithin the Charter Tool Box are relevant references to the University of Kansas’ Community Tool Box, with which the Charter collaborated on this project. The Charter's model for building Compassionate Communities resides on the University of Kansas’ Community Tool Box website.\n\nThe cities and communities that sign on to become Compassionate Cities and Communities often begin their work by identifying issues that are troubling the community and need to be addressed through compassionate action. For example, a community may discover a significant issue related to social justice for women, immigrants or some other marginalized group. Other communities may want to address issues of drug use, gang violence, the lack of equitable healthcare, or the effects of racism. Others may decide to work to empower youth or to educate their communities about the need for compassion in addressing environmental issues.\n\nLouisville, KY, is a shining example of a Compassionate Community, having been named the ICC’s Model City of the year for four consecutive years (2012–2015).\n\nLouisville was the seventh city to sign on to the Compassion Charter, and Mayor Greg Fischer created Compassionate Louisville to help develop and implement a city-wide campaign to nurture and champion the growth of compassion. One of its signature events is the annual Mayor's Give a Day Week, in which the entire city makes time for volunteering, service and compassion. In 2015, the city broke its own world record, with more than 166,000 volunteers and acts of compassion.\n\nCompassionate Louisville’s education team launched the Compassion Bench project, which is designed to provide safe spots in the community where children are encouraged to express compassion. The first was installed at the Louisville Islamic Center on the heels of an act of vandalism there that ultimately served only to unify the community. Mayor Fischer noted that the vandalism at the mosque illustrates the heart of compassion in Louisville. Within hours of the terrible act, dozens of community and religious leaders showed up at an 8 a.m. press conference to denounce the hate and make plans for a community cleanup the next day. That cleanup drew a crowd of nearly 1,000 people—men, women and children; people of all color, nationality, religion and political leanings. “If the vandals’ goal was to highlight division, they failed miserably,” said Mayor Fischer. “This is a city that rejects hate, and the response to the incident at the mosque was a beautiful illustration of the work we’ve done to become a community of even greater compassion.”\n\nOther examples of the city’s commitment to compassion in 2015 include:\n\nCharter for Compassion believes it is possible—and indeed, urgently necessary—to tap into humanity's common desire for a more compassionate and peaceful world by building a vast interconnected network of compassion among the peoples of the Earth. It encourages groups, organizations, and institutions to join the Charter for Compassion’s network of networks by signing on as a partner, at no cost, in any one of its current sectors: Arts, Business, Education, Environment, Healthcare, Peace and Non-violence, Religion/Spirituality/Interfaith, Restorative Justice, Science and Research, Social Justice, Social Service, and Women and Girls.\n\nThese partners represent a vast range of activities. In the science and research field, for example, Stanford University’s Center for Compassion and Altruism Research and Education is conducting research into mapping compassion in the brain and developing compassion training programs for adults. In the Netherlands, an impassioned group of medical students has written a charter focused on medical ethics and compassion in healthcare. They are working to make compassion training a required part of the medical school curriculum.\n\nIn education, partners around the globe have translated the Charter for children and many schools are using compassionate curricula developed for all age levels. Pakistan, one of the most active Charter partners, introduces a compassionate character into the Pakistani Sesame Street, \"Sim Sim Harama\". Pakistan is working closely with Jordan, on the other side of the Gulf, in education efforts. In Jordan one compassionate school is housed in a tent and follows nomads through the Jordanian desert.\n\nAnother project trains prison officers to treat inmates with more respect and care. When it was put into practice in a jail in Washington State, the goal was to decrease violence by 2.5 percent; in fact the project was so successful that violence was decreased by 100 percent. Now the creators are evaluating just what the federal government could save by implementing this program across the United States.\n\nThe Charter for Compassion Education Institute was formed in 2016 to educate and prepare people of the world to live a compassionate life, to understand the power of compassion to transform the inequities and injustices of human civilization, and to spread compassion and compassionate action throughout the world.\n\nThe Education Institute successfully launched its first online course in September 2016 with students from six countries and has several exciting courses lined up for Spring 2017. These first courses deal with how to develop compassion for others, how to learn self-compassion, and how to become a part of the growing compassion movement and the Charter for Compassion. Eventually, CFC will offer courses that address the work of compassion in many contexts—in communities, healthcare, business, education, religion and interfaith, the arts, restorative justice, environment, and science. Instructors from several countries are in the process of developing online courses.\n\n"}
{"id": "2068437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2068437", "title": "Christian Copyright Licensing International", "text": "Christian Copyright Licensing International\n\nChristian Copyright Licensing International (CCLI) is a privately owned company that was founded in the US in 1988 by Howard Rachinski. CCLI was launched after being developed by Rachinski for 3½ years while he was a music minister at a large church in Portland, Oregon. This prototype, called Starpraise Ministries, began in May 1985. CCLI offers copyright licensing of songs and other resource materials for use in Christian worship.\n\nSince its foundation, CCLI has expanded around the world to Australia, Botswana, Canada, Denmark, Faroe Islands, Finland, Germany, Iceland, Ireland, Lesotho, Malawi, Namibia, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Singapore, South Africa, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, United Kingdom, Zimbabwe, South Korea and as of 2016 can now serve most countries.\n\nThe mechanism of copyright solution invented by CCLI has been cited by the governments of United States and official copyright organization in United Kingdom when introducing the relevant policy. \n\nThe licenses and services offered by CCLI include:\nFor the reproduction of words of songs for church worship use (The CCLI Church License does not allow you to make copies of performance music pieces. From the CCLI.COM License: \"3.0 restrictions: This license does not allow churches to do the following: Photocopy or duplicate any photo sheet music (octavos) cantadas, musicals, handbell music, keyboard music, vocal solo, or instrumental works.\")\nFor the photocopying of worship music\nOnline access of worship song lyrics, sound samples, and download of lead sheets, chord sheets, and soprano/alto/tenor/bass hymn sheets\nIn a joint venture with MPLC, under the company name of Christian Video Licensing International, for the copyright licensing of the playing of videos / DVDs for church activities\nCVLI introduced ScreenVue in 2003 as a separate service available for CVLI Video Licensees. ScreenVue offers both free and paid membership which gives the subscriber access to movie clips for illustration use in sermons or other presentations.\n\n, the annual fee for a US CCLI license ranged from $59 (for a church size less than 25 people) to $5,266 (for a church size greater than 200,000 people). License fees are similar for churches in other countries, taking exchange rates into account.\n\n\"CCLI distributes the majority of the License Fee to the copyright owners (i.e., publishers and songwriters) as royalties.\" More information about CCLI's royalty distribution policies is available on the CCLI web site. That page also says \"Every year CCLI holds an Owner's Meeting for each region, where full details of License fees collected, and royalties distributed, are reported. Every song copyright owner participating in the Church Copyright License program is invited to the meeting for that region.\"\n\nThe performance of works in copyright (for example, playing music) as part of an act of worship is specifically exempted from copyright laws in several countries. \n\nUS Copyright Law [17 USC §110], for example, explicitly states that performances of \"religious nature\" during a service \"at a place of worship or other religious assembly\" are \"not infringements of copyright.\"\n\nHowever, there are no exemptions for creating copies (e.g. printed, projection slides, recordings), translating, or making new arrangements.\n\nNo license is needed if all music is in the public domain or covered by something like the Creative Commons licenses. As an example, most sufficiently old hymns are in the public domain. CCLI maintains a list of songs that are in the public domain. If all of the songs that an organization uses are in that list, then the organization does not need to pay the CCLI license fee. As of March 2015, CCLI's list contained nearly 24,000 public domain songs.\n\n"}
{"id": "52165480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52165480", "title": "Constitutional Court of Chile", "text": "Constitutional Court of Chile\n\nThe Constitutional Court of Chile (\"Tribunal Constitucional de Chile\" in Spanish) is Chile's constitutional tribunal. It is not part of the judicial branch and is functionally independent of the Congress and the President.\n\nThe Constitutional Court was created in 1970, under the Constitution of 1925. In 1973, after the coup d'état, it was dissolved, but the 1980 Constitution reinstated it.\n\nUntil 2005, some members were designated by the National Security Council (a civic-military committee).\n\nAccording to the Chilean constitution, its principal attribution is to rule on whether laws that are challenged are in fact unconstitutional, i.e., whether they conflict with constitutionally established rights and freedoms. This function not only applies to legislative acts, but also to judicial decrees (\"autoacordados\"), presidential decrees (\"Decretos con Fuerza de Ley\"), or even ordinary decrees when the Comptroller-General deems it to be unconstitutional.\n\nAlso, the Court has attributions on the convocation to referendums, outlawing groups or parties which seriously violate the institutional order, deposing members of Congress who seriously infringe the constitution, resolving conflicts between lower courts and administrative agencies, and many others.\n\nThe Constitutional Court is composed of ten members, called Ministers:\n\n\nMembers have nine-year terms, renewed by thirds every three years, and can not be re-elected.\n\nThe Constitutional Court can work as a United Court (\"Pleno\") or divided in two Chambers (\"Salas\").\n\nIn the event a quorum is below the legally required, deputy ministers (\"ministros suplentes\"), or substitute attorneys (\"abogados integrantes\") are designated.\n\nThe court's president has the power to break a tie.\n\n"}
{"id": "1973410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1973410", "title": "Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees", "text": "Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees\n\nThe Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees, also known as the 1951 Refugee Convention, is a United Nations multilateral treaty that defines who is a refugee, and sets out the rights of individuals who are granted asylum and the responsibilities of nations that grant asylum. The Convention also sets out which people do not qualify as refugees, such as war criminals. The Convention also provides for some visa-free travel for holders of travel documents issued under the convention. Although the Refugee Convention was agreed in Geneva, it is considered incorrect to refer to it as \"the Geneva Convention\" because that term is more widely understood as referring to any of four treaties regulating armed conflict.\n\nThe Refugee Convention builds on Article 14 of the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which recognizes the right of persons to seek asylum from persecution in other countries. A refugee may enjoy rights and benefits in a state in addition to those provided for in the Convention.\n\nThe Convention was approved at a special United Nations conference on 28 July 1951. Denmark was the first state to ratify the treaty on 4 December 1952, which entered into force on 22 April 1954. It was initially limited to protecting European refugees from before 1 January 1951 (after World War II), though states could make a declaration that the provisions would apply to refugees from other places.\n\nThe 1967 Protocol removed the time limits and applied to refugees \"without any geographic limitation\", but declarations previously made by parties to the Convention on geographic scope were grandfathered.\n\nAs at 1 July 2013, there were 145 parties to the Convention, and 146 to the Protocol. Most recently, the President of Nauru, Marcus Stephen, signed both the Convention and the Protocol on 17 June 2011 and acceded on 28 June 2011. Madagascar and Saint Kitts and Nevis are parties only to the Convention, while Cape Verde, the United States of America and Venezuela are parties only to the Protocol. Since the US ratified the Protocol in 1968, it undertook a majority of the obligations spelled out in the original 1951 document (Articles 2-34), and Article 1 as amended in the Protocol, as \"supreme Law of the Land\".\n\nThe rights promulgated by the Convention generally still stand today. Some have argued that the complex nature of 21st century refugee relationships calls for a new treaty that recognizes the evolving nature of the nation-state, population displacement, environmental migrants, and modern warfare. Nevertheless, ideas like the principle of non-refoulement (Article 33) are still applied today, with the 1951 Convention being the hallmark of such rights.\n\nArticle 1 of the Convention, as amended by the 1967 Protocol, defines a refugee as this:\nSeveral groups have built upon the 1951 Convention to create a more objective definition. While their terms differ from those of the 1951 Convention, the Convention has significantly shaped the new, more objective definitions. They include the 1969 Convention Governing the Specific Aspects of Refugee Problems in Africa by the Organisation of African Unity (since 2002 African Union) and the 1984 Cartagena Declaration, while nonbinding, also sets out regional standards for refugees in Central America, Mexico and Panama.\n\nIn the general principle of international law, treaties in force are binding upon the parties to it and must be performed in good faith. Countries that have ratified the Refugee Convention are obliged to protect refugees that are on their territory, in accordance with its terms. There are a number of provisions that States parties to the Refugee Convention must adhere to.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAlthough the Convention is \"legally binding\" there is no body that monitors compliance. The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) has supervisory responsibilities, but cannot enforce the Convention, and there is no formal mechanism for individuals to file complaints. The Convention specifies that complaints should be referred to the International Court of Justice. It appears that no nation has ever done this.\n\nAn individual may lodge a complaint with the UN Human Rights Committee under the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, or with the UN Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights under the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, but no one has ever done so in regard to violations of the Convention. Nations may levy international sanctions against violators, but no nation has ever done this.\n\nAt present, the only real consequences of violation are 1) public shaming in the press, and 2) verbal condemnation of the violator by the UN and by other nations. To date these have not proven to be significant deterrents.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47758216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47758216", "title": "Cork Local Government Review", "text": "Cork Local Government Review\n\nThe Cork Local Government Review was a 2015 review carried out by the Cork Local Government Committee of the operation of Cork County Council and Cork City Council in Ireland. Its report recommended merging them into a single \"super-council\" with effect from the 2019 local elections. The recommendation was controversial and in 2017, after a review, it was dropped in favour of extending the city boundary into territory of the county.\n\nThe most recent extension of the boundary of the city council area was in 1965. At the 2011 census, there were 119,230 people in the city proper and 79,352 in adjacent suburbs within the county. Under the Local Government Act 1991, the Minister for the Environment, Community and Local Government can by statutory instrument change the boundaries of local government areas including cities and counties, subject to a formal proposal from the relevant local authority and a report from a local boundary committee appointed to review the boundaries. \n\nThe committee's terms of reference were specified by minister Alan Kelly. It could recommend either merging the two councils into a single local government area for County Cork, or else adjusting the boundary between Cork city and the county. The five committee members were:\n\nAfter a public consultation, its report was submitted in September 2015. The majority report, by Smiddy, Curran, and Lucey, recommends a single council, with more powers than existing county councils have under the 2001 act and the Local Government Reform Act 2014. The super-council would have three subunits called \"divisions\", one being a \"metropolitan division\" around Cork city, the others respectively covering the north and east of the county and the south and west of it. The divisions would be further divided into municipal districts as defined under the 2014 act.\n\nKeogh and Reidy submitted a minority report arguing for retention of separate city and county councils, with a boundary adjustment increasing the area of the city council. The minority report interpreted the \"metropolitan division\" proposed in the majority report as nothing more than a municipal district with no budgetary powers.\n\nThe majority report recommended that the \"metropolitan division\" around the city should correspond to the existing Metropolitan Cork statistical area, with a population of 289,739, as far out as Ballinhassig, Minane Bridge, Cloyne, Midleton, Watergrasshill, and Dripsey. It did not specify a boundary for the \"metropolitan district\" within the metropolitan division, but said all municipal district boundaries should be redrawn by an implementation committee.\n\nThe minority report recommended that the city boundary be extended to the satellite towns of Ballincollig, Blarney, Carrigtwohill, and Carrigaline, but not Midleton or Cobh. It would have a population between 230,000 and 235,000, the precise boundary to be negotiated between the city and county councils.\n\nIn general, politicians from the county agreed with the majority report, while politicians and civic groups from the city favoured retaining a separate city council. Cork South- Central TD Ciarán Lynch commissioned a poll of the constituency showing 59 percent support for boundary extension and 23 percent for amalgamation, which county mayor John Paul O’Shea criticised as a \"biased survey\".\n\nEighteen former Lord Mayors of the city signed a letter opposing any merger with the county. A specially convened meeting of the city council on 22 September 2015 resolved by 29 votes to none to seek a judicial review in the High Court of the proposal's constitutionality, and to write to the Taoiseach and minister demanding a halt to the process. The county council endorsed the majority report on 28 September 2015, with only Sinn Féin councillors opposed.\n\nAlan Kelly, the responsible minister, backed the majority report. Simon Coveney, a government minister from near Carrigaline, advised voters to read the full report before passing judgment. In the Dáil, Micheál Martin and Jonathan O'Brien opposed it while Kelly supported it. In the Seanad, Paul Bradford opposed while junior minister Jimmy Deenihan replied that there were \"obviously pros and cons\". Michael McCarthy, Labour TD for Cork South-West, and chair of the Dáil Committee on Environment, Culture and the Gaeltacht, invited the review committee members to address the Dáil committee.\n\nCork chamber of commerce, which straddles both council areas, favours amalgamation. The Cork branch of IBEC made a submission in favour of retaining separate councils but subsequently endorsed the majority report, denying this was a U-turn. Cork Institute of Technology president Brendan Murphy backed the merger; UCC did not initially take a position, while defending the right of the UCC faculty on the committee to express a minority view.\n\nIn a February 2016 debate before the general election, eight of nine Cork candidates were opposed to the merger, with Fine Gael's Dara Murphy saying \"It has been too divisive. What we are left with now is the status quo, which is the worst of both worlds.\"\n\nUCC commissioned Tony Bovaird of the University of Birmingham to review both majority and minority reports. Bovaird said the minority report was \"much better substantiated\", while Alf Smiddy dismissed Bovaird's review as \"a continuation of an ongoing orchestrated saga from certain narrow quarters to frustrate the Government\".\n\nEarly in 2016, the Cork report was considered by the government's Committee on Social Policy and Public Service Reform, along with another recommending merging Galway City and County. After the 2016 election, Simon Coveney became Minister for Housing, Planning, Community and Local Government in the Fine Gael–led government. In June, he announced that a new expert group would take \"a fresh look\" at the Cork question. In September, he appointed an \"expert advisory group\" with detailed terms of reference including \"having regard particularly to the review carried out by the Cork Local Government Review Committee and its report\". Unlike the original committee, the review group's terms referred to the city's \"strategic role\" as a \"regional and national growth centre\".\n\nThe group's members were:\nThe group was originally expected to report in early 2017. Its 130-page draft report was submitted in April, and in May 2017, Coveney returned it for revision of specified points.\n\nIn June 2017, Coveney published the group's report (called the \"Mackinnon Report\" by media) and said he intended to implement it in time for the 2019 local elections. The city boundary will be extended to include Little Island, Cork Airport, Ballincollig, Blarney, and Carrigtwohill, adding a population of over 100,000. Places farther out will remain part of the county, including Cobh, Carrigaline, and Midleton, as well as Ringaskiddy, the centre of the Port of Cork. The report gives parameters for compensation to be paid by the city to the county for the consequent reduction in its revenue. The revised proposal was welcomed by Micheál Martin but criticised by some county councillors. The city council voted unanimously to accept it. Barry Roche of \"The Irish Times\" wrote that the Mackinnon Report \"has proven almost as divisive as its predecessor\", except with the city and county councils' positions reversed. \n\nOn 28 July 2017, Coveney appointed a three-person \"Cork Local Government Implementation Oversight Group\" (IOG). Its terms of reference included planning and overseeing the implementation of the expert advisory group's report, but also adjusting the boundary delineation. The IOG facilitated discussions between the chief executives of the two councils, who reached an agreement in December on a compromise whereby the city would be extended to include Ballincollig, Blarney, Glanmire, and Cork Airport, but not Little Island or Carrigtwohill. The cabinet accepted the IOG report on 13 December. A county council meeting on 15 December 2017 voted 28–5 to reject the proposal, with Sinn Féin the only party to support it. A city council meeting on 18 December endorsed the IOG proposal. \n\nOn 13 December 2017 two LEA Boundary Committees were established and tasked with drawing all LEA boundaries for the 2019 local election, except initially excluding Cork city and county. The IOG finalised its boundary by 27 February 2018. On 23 March 2018 Cork city and Cork county were added to the remit of the LEA Boundary Committees, using the IOG city–county boundary and keeping the current numbers of councillors. Although county and city boundaries can be adjusted by statutory instrument under the Local Government Act 1991, this requires the consent of both adjoining local authorities; absent the consent of Cork County Council, the IOG boundary change can only be implemented by primary legislation. This is the intention of the Local Government Bill 2018, for which Phelan moved the second reading in the Dáil on 18 October 2018.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43660497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43660497", "title": "Craig v East Coast Bays City Council", "text": "Craig v East Coast Bays City Council\n\nCraig v East Coast Bays City Council [1986] 1 NZLR 99 is a cited case in New Zealand regarding council liability for negligent inspection.\n\nCraig owned a house in Murrays Bay. On the section in front of his house, his neighbour started building a new house, within 3.8 metres of his boundary.\n\nDuring construction, he realized that when completed, the house would obstruct his views, and he complained to the council without success.\n\nHe later discovered, that according to the District Plan, any building constructed within 6 metres of a property boundary, must be publicly notified, which if this had happened Craig could have filed an objection.\n\nAnd the house was originally planned to be built 6 metres from Craigs property, however this would have involved building over a council sewer line. To avoid difficulties of building over a sewer line, the site plan was moved to within 3.8 metres.\n\nWhilst this was still outside the District Plan, the council had powers to give exemptions to complying with the District Plan, and gave an exemption in this case.\n\nHowever, it later transpired that due to a misinterpretation of the rules, the council did not have the legal authority to grant an exemption in this instance.\n\nCraig sued the council for $40,000 in damages for negligence.\n\nThe Court of Appeal upheld the High Courts award of damages of $2,250.\n\nFootnote: The Court of Appeal decided Craig v East Coast Bays City Council on the same day as Brown v Heathcote County Council and Stieller v Porirua City Council, which also involved negligent council building inspections.\n"}
{"id": "9704515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9704515", "title": "Disenfranchisement after the Reconstruction Era", "text": "Disenfranchisement after the Reconstruction Era\n\nDisenfranchisement after the Reconstruction Era in the United States of America was based on a series of laws, new constitutions, and practices in the South that were deliberately used to prevent black citizens from registering to vote and voting. These measures were enacted by the former Confederate states at the turn of the 20th century, and by Oklahoma when it gained statehood in 1907, although \"not\" by the former border slave states. Their actions were designed to frustrate the objective of the Fifteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution, ratified in 1870, which sought to protect the suffrage of freedmen after the American Civil War.\n\nDuring the later elections of Reconstruction era, beginning in the 1870s, white Democrats used violence by paramilitary groups, as well as fraud, to suppress black Republican voters and turn Republicans out of office. After regaining control of the state legislatures, Democrats were alarmed by a late 19th-century alliance between Republicans and Populists that cost them some elections. After achieving control of state legislatures, white Democrats added to previous efforts and achieved widespread disenfranchisement by law: from 1890 to 1908, Southern state legislatures passed new constitutions, constitutional amendments, and laws that made voter registration and voting more difficult, especially when administered by white staff in a discriminatory way. They succeeded in disenfranchising most of the black citizens, as well as many poor whites in the South, and voter rolls dropped dramatically in each state. The Republican Party was nearly eliminated in the region for decades, and the Democrats established one-party control throughout the southern states.\n\nIn 1912, the Republican Party was split when Roosevelt ran against the party regular, Taft. In the South by this time, the Republican Party had been hollowed out by the disenfranchisement of African Americans, who were largely excluded from voting. Democrat Woodrow Wilson was elected as the first southern President since 1856. He was re-elected in 1916, in a much closer presidential contest. During his first term, Wilson satisfied the request of Southerners in his cabinet and instituted overt racial segregation throughout federal government workplaces, as well as racial discrimination in hiring. During World War I, American military forces were segregated, with black soldiers poorly trained and equipped.\n\nDisenfranchisement had far-reaching effects in Congress, where the Democratic Solid South enjoyed \"about 25 extra seats in Congress for each decade between 1903 and 1953.\" Also, the Democratic dominance in the South meant that southern Senators and Representatives became entrenched in Congress. They favored seniority privileges in Congress, which became the standard by 1920, and Southerners controlled chairmanships of important committees, as well as leadership of the national Democratic Party. During the Great Depression, legislation establishing numerous national social programs were passed without the representation of African Americans, leading to gaps in program coverage and discrimination against them in operations. In addition, because black Southerners were not listed on local voter rolls, they were automatically excluded from serving in local courts. Juries were all white across the South.\n\nPolitical disenfranchisement did not end until after passage of the Voting Rights Act of 1965, which authorized the federal government to monitor voter registration practices and elections where populations were historically underrepresented, and to enforce constitutional voting rights. The challenge to voting rights has continued into the 21st century, as shown by numerous court cases in 2016 alone, though attempts to restrict voting rights for political advantage have not been confined to the Southern states. Another method of seeking political advantage through the voting system is the gerrymandering of electoral boundaries, as was the case of North Carolina, which in January 2018 was declared by a federal court to be unconstitutional. Such cases are expected to reach the Supreme Court.\n\nThe American Civil War ended in 1865, marking the start of the Reconstruction era in the eleven former Confederate states. Congress passed the Reconstruction Acts, starting in 1867, establishing military districts to oversee the affairs of these states pending reconstruction.\n\nDuring the Reconstruction era, blacks constituted absolute majorities of the populations in Mississippi and South Carolina, were equal to the white population in Louisiana, and represented more than 40 percent of the population in four other former Confederate states. Southern whites, fearing black domination, resisted the freedmen's exercise of political power. In 1867, black men voted for the first time. By the 1868 presidential election, Texas, Mississippi, and Virginia had still not been re-admitted to the Union. General Ulysses S. Grant was elected as president thanks in part to 700,000 black voters. In February 1870, the Fifteenth Amendment was ratified; it was designed to protect blacks' right to vote from infringement by the states.\n\nWhite supremacist paramilitary organizations, allied with Southern Democrats, used intimidation, violence and even committed assassinations in order to repress blacks and prevent them from exercising their civil and political rights in elections from 1868 until the mid-1870s. The insurgent Ku Klux Klan (KKK) was formed in 1865 in Tennessee (as a backlash to defeat in the war) and it quickly became a powerful secret vigilante group, with chapters across the South. The Klan initiated a campaign of intimidation directed against blacks and sympathetic whites. Their violence included vandalism and destruction of property, physical attacks and assassinations, and lynchings. Teachers who came from the North to teach freedmen were sometimes attacked or intimidated as well.\n\nThe toll of Klan murders and attacks led Congress to pass laws to end the violence. In 1870, the strongly Republican Congress passed the Enforcement Acts, imposing penalties for conspiracy to deny black suffrage. The Acts empowered the President to deploy the armed forces to suppress organizations that deprived people of rights guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment. Organizations whose members appeared in arms were considered in rebellion against the United States. The President could suspend \"habeas corpus\" under those circumstances. President Grant used these provisions in parts of the Carolinas in late 1871. United States marshals supervised state voter registrations and elections and could summon the help of military or naval forces if needed. These measures led to the demise of the first Klan by the early 1870s.\n\nNew paramilitary groups quickly sprang up, as tens of thousands of veterans belonged to gun clubs and similar groups. A second wave of violence began, resulting in over 1,000 deaths, usually black or Republican. The Supreme Court ruled in 1876 in \"United States v. Cruikshank\", arising from trials related to the Colfax Massacre, that protections of the Fourteenth Amendment, which the Enforcement Acts were intended to support, did not apply to the actions of individuals, but only to the actions of state governments. They recommended that persons seek relief from state courts, which had not been supportive of freedmen's rights.\n\nThe paramilitary organizations that arose in the mid to late 1870s were part of continuing insurgency in the South after the Civil War, as armed veterans in the South resisted social changes, and worked to prevent black Americans and other Republicans from voting and running for office. Such groups included the White League, formed in Louisiana in 1874 from white militias, with chapters forming in other Southern states; the Red Shirts, formed in 1875 in Mississippi but also active in North Carolina and South Carolina; and other \"White Liners,\" such as rifle clubs and the Knights of the White Camellia. Compared to the Klan, they were open societies, better organized and devoted to the political goal of regaining control of the state legislatures and suppressing Republicans, including most blacks. They often solicited newspaper coverage for publicity to increase their threat. The scale of operations was such that in 1876, North Carolina had 20,000 men in rifle clubs. Made up of well-armed Confederate veterans, a class that covered most adult men who could have fought in the war, the paramilitary groups worked for political aims: to turn Republicans out of office, disrupt their organizing, and use force to intimidate and terrorize freedmen to keep them away from the polls. Such groups have been described as \"the military arm of the Democratic Party.\"\n\nThey were instrumental in many Southern states in driving blacks away from the polls and ensuring a white Democratic takeover of legislatures and governorships in most Southern states in the 1870s, most notoriously during the controversial 1876 elections. As a result of a national Compromise of 1877 arising from the 1876 presidential election, the federal government withdrew its military forces from the South, formally ending the Reconstruction era. By that time, Southern Democrats had effectively regained control in Louisiana, South Carolina, and Florida – they identified as the Redeemers. In the South, the process of white Democrats regaining control of state governments has been called \"the Redemption\". African-American historians sometimes call the Compromise of 1877 \"The Great Betrayal.\"\n\nFollowing continuing violence around elections as insurgents worked to suppress black voting, the Democratic-dominated Southern states passed legislation to create barriers to voter registrations by blacks and poor whites, starting with the Georgia poll tax in 1877. Other measures followed, particularly near the end of the century, after a Republican-Populist alliance caused the Democrats to temporarily lose some Congressional seats and control of some gubernatorial positions.\n\nTo secure their power, the Democrats worked to exclude blacks (and most Republicans) from politics. The results could be seen across the South. After Reconstruction, Tennessee initially had the most \"consistently competitive political system in the South\". A bitter election battle in 1888, marked by unmatched corruption and violence, resulted in white Democrats taking over the state legislature. To consolidate their power, they worked to suppress the black vote and sharply reduced it through changes in voter registration, requiring poll taxes, as well as changing election procedures to make voting more complex.\n\nIn 1890 Mississippi adopted a new constitution, which contained provisions for voter registration which required voters pay poll taxes and pass a literacy test. The literacy test was subjectively applied by white administrators, and the two provisions effectively disenfranchised most blacks and many poor whites. The constitutional provisions survived a Supreme Court challenge in \"Williams v. Mississippi\" (1898). Other southern states quickly adopted new constitutions and what they called the \"Mississippi plan.\" By 1908, all states of the former Confederacy had passed new constitutions or suffrage amendments, sometimes bypassing general elections to achieve this. Legislators created a variety of barriers, including longer residency requirements, rule variations, literacy and understanding tests, which were subjectively applied against minorities, or were particularly hard for the poor to fulfill. Such constitutional provisions were unsuccessfully challenged at the Supreme Court in \"Giles v. Harris\" (1903). In practice, these provisions, including white primaries, created a maze that blocked most blacks and many poor whites from voting in Southern states until after passage of federal civil rights legislation in the mid-1960s. Voter registration and turnout dropped sharply across the South, as most blacks and many poor whites were excluded from the political system.\n\nThe disenfranchisement of a large proportion of voters attracted the attention of Congress, and as early as 1900 some members proposed stripping the South of seats, related to the number of people who were barred from voting. Apportionment of seats was still based on total population (with the assumption of the usual number of voting males in relation to the residents); as a result white Southerners commanded a number of seats far out of proportion to the voters they represented. In the end, Congress did not act on this issue, as the Southern bloc of Democrats had sufficient power to reject or stall such action. For decades, white Southern Democrats exercised Congressional representation derived from a full count of the population, but they disfranchised several million black and white citizens. Southern white Democrats comprised the \"Solid South\", a powerful voting bloc in Congress until the mid-20th century. Their representatives, re-elected repeatedly by one-party states, exercised the power of seniority, controlling numerous chairmanships of important committees in both houses. Their power allowed them to have control over rules, budgets and important patronage projects, among other issues, as well as to defeat bills to make lynching a federal crime.\n\nDespite white Southerners' complaints about Reconstruction, several Southern states kept most provisions of their Reconstruction constitutions for more than two decades, until late in the 19th century. In some states, the number of blacks elected to local offices reached a peak in the 1880s although Reconstruction had ended. They had an influence at the local level, where much of government took place, although they did not win many statewide or national seats. Subsequently, state legislatures passed restrictive laws or constitutions that made voter registration and election rules more complicated. As literacy tests and other restrictions could be applied subjectively, these changes sharply limited the vote by most blacks and, often, many poor whites; voter rolls dropped across the South into the new century.\n\nFlorida approved a new constitution in 1885 that included provisions for poll taxes as a prerequisite for voter registration and voting. From 1890 to 1908, ten of the eleven Southern states rewrote their constitutions. All included provisions that effectively restricted voter registration and suffrage, including requirements for poll taxes, increased residency, and subjective literacy tests.\n\nWith educational improvements, blacks had markedly increased their rate of literacy. By 1891, their illiteracy had declined to 58 percent, whilst the rate of white illiteracy in the South at that time was 31 percent. Some states used grandfather clauses to exempt white voters from literacy tests altogether. Other states required otherwise eligible black voters to meet literacy and knowledge requirements to the satisfaction of white registrars, who applied subjective judgment and, in the process, rejected most black voters. By 1900, the majority of blacks were literate, but even many of the best-educated of these men continued to \"fail\" the literacy tests administered by white registrars.\n\nThe historian J. Morgan Kousser noted, \"Within the Democratic party, the chief impetus for restriction came from the black belt members,\" whom he identified as \"always socioeconomically privileged.\" In addition to wanting to affirm white supremacy, the planter and business elite were concerned about voting by lower-class and uneducated whites. Kousser found, \"They disfranchised these whites as willingly as they deprived blacks of the vote.\" Perman noted the goals of disenfranchisement resulted from several factors. Competition between white elites and white lower classes, for example, and a desire to prevent alliances between lower-class white and black Americans, as had been seen in Populist-Republican alliances, led white Democratic legislators to restrict voter rolls.\n\nWith the passage of new constitutions, Southern states adopted provisions that caused disenfranchisement of large portions of their populations by skirting US constitutional protections of the Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments. While their voter registration requirements applied to all citizens, in practice they disenfranchised most blacks. As in Alabama, they also \"would remove [from voter registration rolls] the less educated, less organized, more impoverished whites as well – and that would ensure one-party Democratic rules through most of the 20th century in the South.\"\n\nThe new provisions of the state constitutions almost entirely eliminated black voting. Although nothing approaching precise data exists, it is estimated that in the late 1930s less than one percent of blacks in the Deep South and around five percent in the Rim South were registered to vote, and that the proportion actually voting even in general elections, which were of no consequence due to complete Democratic dominance, was much smaller still. Secondly, the Democratic legislatures passed Jim Crow laws to assert white supremacy, establish racial segregation in public facilities, and treat blacks as second-class citizens. The landmark court decision in \"Plessy v. Ferguson\" (1896) held that \"separate but equal\" facilities, as on railroad cars, were constitutional. The new constitutions passed numerous Supreme Court challenges. In cases where a particular restriction was overruled by the Supreme Court in the early 20th century, states quickly devised new methods of excluding most blacks from voting, such as the white primary. Democratic Party primaries became the only competitive contests in southern states.\n\nFor the national Democratic Party, the alignment after Reconstruction resulted in a powerful Southern region that was useful for congressional clout. Nevertheless, prior to President Franklin D. Roosevelt, the \"Solid South\" inhibited the national party from fulfilling center-left initiatives desired since the days of William Jennings Bryan. Woodrow Wilson, one of two Democrats elected to the presidency between Abraham Lincoln and Franklin D. Roosevelt, was the first Southerner elected after 1856. He benefited by the disenfranchisement of blacks and crippling of the Republican Party in the South. Soon after taking office, Wilson directed the segregation of federal facilities in the District of Columbia, which had been integrated during Reconstruction.\n\nWith a population evenly divided between races, in 1896 there were 130,334 black voters on the Louisiana registration rolls and about the same number of whites.\nLouisiana State legislators passed a new constitution in 1898 that included requirements for applicants to pass a literacy test in English or his native language in order to register to vote, or to certify owning $300 worth of property, known as a property requirement. The literacy test was administered by the voting registrar; in practice, they were white Democrats. Provisions in the constitution also included a grandfather clause, which provided a loophole to enable illiterate whites to register to vote. It said that \"Any citizen who was a voter on January 1, 1867, or his son or grandson, or any person naturalized prior to January 1, 1898, if applying for registration before September 1, 1898, might vote, notwithstanding illiteracy or poverty.\" Separate registration lists were kept for whites and blacks, making it easy for white registrars to discriminate against blacks in literacy tests. The constitution of 1898 also required a person to satisfy a longer residency requirement in the state, county, parish, and precinct before voting than did the constitution of 1879. This worked against the lower classes, who were more likely to move frequently for work, especially in agricultural areas where there were many migrant workers and sharecroppers.\n\nThe effect of these changes on the population of black voters in Louisiana was devastating; by 1900 black voters were reduced from 130,334 to 5,320 on the rolls. By 1910, only 730 blacks were registered, less than 0.5% of eligible black men. \"In 27 of the state's sixty parishes, not a single black voter was registered any longer; in nine more parishes, only one black voter was.\"\n\nIn 1894, a coalition of Republicans and the Populist Party won control of the North Carolina state legislature (and with it, the ability to elect two US Senators) and were successful in electing several US Representatives elected through electoral fusion. The fusion coalition made impressive gains in the 1896 election when their legislative majority expanded. Republican Daniel Lindsay Russell won the gubernatorial race in 1897, the first Republican governor of the state since the end of Reconstruction in 1877. The election also resulted in more than 1,000 elected or appointed black officials, including the election in 1897 of George Henry White to Congress, as a member of the House of Representatives.\n\nAt the 1898 election, the Democrats ran on White Supremacy and disenfranchisement in a bitter race-baiting campaign led by Furnifold McLendel Simmons and Josephus Daniels, editor and publisher of \"The Raleigh News & Observer.\" The Republican/Populist coalition disintegrated, and the Democrats won the North Carolina 1898 election and the following 1900 election. Simmons was elected as the state's US senator in 1900, holding office until 1931 through multiple re-elections by the state legislature and by popular vote after 1920.\n\nThe Democrats used their power in the state legislature to disenfranchise minorities, primarily blacks, and ensure that Democratic Party and white power would not be threatened again. They passed laws restricting voter registration. In 1900 the Democrats adopted a constitutional suffrage amendment which lengthened the residence period required before registration, and enacted both an educational qualification (to be assessed by a registrar, which meant that it could be subjectively applied) and prepayment of a poll tax. A grandfather clause exempted from the poll tax those entitled to vote on January 1, 1867. The legislature also passed Jim Crow laws establishing racial segregation in public facilities and transportation.\n\nThe effect in North Carolina was the complete elimination of black voters from voter rolls by 1904. Contemporary accounts estimated that seventy-five thousand black male citizens lost the vote. In 1900 blacks numbered 630,207 citizens, about 33% of the state's total population. The growth of the thriving black middle class was slowed. In North Carolina and other Southern states, there were also the insidious effects of invisibility: \"[W]ithin a decade of disenfranchisement (sic), the white supremacy campaign had erased the image of the black middle class from the minds of white North Carolinians.\"\n\nIn Virginia, Democrats sought disenfranchisement in the late 19th century after a coalition of white and black Republicans with populist Democrats had come to power; the coalition had been formalized as the Readjuster Party. The Readjuster Party held control from 1881 to 1883, electing a governor and controlling the legislature, which also elected a US Senator from the state. As in North Carolina, state Democrats were able to divide Readjuster supporters through appeals to White Supremacy. After regaining power, Democrats changed state laws and the constitution in 1902 to disenfranchise blacks. They ratified the new constitution in the legislature and did not submit it to popular vote. Voting in Virginia fell by nearly half as a result of the disenfranchisement of blacks. The eighty-year stretch of white Democratic control ended only in the late 1960s after passage and enforcement of the federal Voting Rights Act of 1965 and the collapse of the Byrd Organization machine.\n\nThe five border states of Delaware, Maryland, West Virginia, Kentucky and Missouri, had legacies similar to the Confederate slave states from the Civil War. The Border States, all slave states, also established laws requiring racial segregation between the 1880s and 1900s; however, disenfranchisement of blacks was never attained to any significant degree. Most Border States did attempt such disenfranchisement during the 1900s.\n\nThe causes of failure to disenfranchise blacks and poor whites in the Border States, as compared to their success for well over half a century in former Confederate states, were complicated. During the 1900s Maryland was vigorously divided between supporters and opponents of disenfranchisement, but it had a large and increasingly educated black community concentrated in Baltimore. This city had many free blacks before the Civil War and they had established both economic and political power. The state legislature passed a poll tax in 1904, but incurred vigorous opposition and repealed it in 1911. Despite support among conservative whites in the conservative Eastern Shore, referenda for bills to disenfranchise blacks failed three times in 1905, 1908 and 1910, with the last vote being the most decisive. The existence of substantial Italian immigration completely absent from the Confederacy meant that these immigrants were exposed to the possibility of disfranchisement, but much more critically allowed for much stronger resistance amongst the white population.\n\nIn Kentucky, Lexington's city government had passed a poll tax in 1901, but it was declared invalid in state circuit courts. Six years later, a new state legislative effort to disenfranchise blacks failed because of the strong organization of the Republican Party in pro-Union regions of the state.\n\nProof of payment of a poll tax was a prerequisite to voter registration in Florida, Alabama, Tennessee, Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, Georgia (1877), North and South Carolina, Virginia (until 1882 and again from 1902 with its new constitution), Texas (1902) and in some northern and western states. The Texas poll tax \"required otherwise eligible voters to pay between $1.50 and $1.75 to register to vote – a lot of money at the time, and a big barrier to the working classes and poor.\" Georgia created a cumulative poll tax requirement in 1877: men of any race 21 to 60 years of age had to pay a sum of money for every year from the time they had turned 21, or from the time that the law took effect.\n\nThe poll tax requirements applied to whites as well as blacks, and also adversely affected poor citizens. Many states required payment of the tax at a time separate from the election, and then required voters to bring receipts with them to the polls. If they could not locate such receipts, they could not vote. In addition, many states surrounded registration and voting with other complex record-keeping requirements. These were particularly difficult for sharecropper and tenant farmers to comply with, as they moved frequently.\n\nThe poll tax was sometimes used alone or together with a literacy qualification. In a kind of grandfather clause, North Carolina in 1900 exempted from the poll tax those men entitled to vote as of January 1, 1867. This excluded all blacks in the State, who did not have suffrage before that date.\n\nAlabama, Arkansas, Mississippi, South Carolina and Tennessee, created an educational requirement, with review by a local registrar of a voter's qualifications. In 1898 Georgia rejected such a device.\n\nAlabama delegates at first hesitated, out of concern that illiterate whites would lose their votes. After the legislature stated that the new constitution would not disenfranchise any white voters and that it would be submitted to the people for ratification, Alabama passed an educational requirement. It was ratified at the polls in November 1901. Its distinctive feature was the \"good character clause\" (also known as the \"grandfather clause\"). An appointment board in each county could register \"all voters under the present [previous] law\" who were veterans or the lawful descendants of such, and \"all who are of good character and understand the duties and obligations of citizenship.\" This gave the board discretion to approve voters on a case-by-case basis. In practice, they enfranchised many whites, but rejected both poor whites and blacks. Most of the latter had been slaves and unable to attain military service.\n\nSouth Carolina, Louisiana (1889), and later, Virginia incorporated an educational requirement in their new constitutions. In 1902 Virginia adopted a constitution with the \"understanding\" clause as a literacy test to use until 1904. In addition, application for registration had to be in the applicant's handwriting and written in the presence of the registrar. Thus, someone who could not write, could not vote.\n\nBy 1882, the Democrats were firmly in power in South Carolina. Republican voters were mostly limited to the majority-black counties of Beaufort and Georgetown. Because the state had a large black-majority population (nearly sixty percent in 1890), white Democrats had narrow margins in many counties and feared a possible resurgence of black Republican voters at the polls. To remove the black threat, the General Assembly created an indirect literacy test, called the \"Eight Box Law.\"\n\nThe law required a separate box for ballots for each office; a voter had to insert the ballot into the corresponding box or it would not count. The ballots could not have party symbols on them. They had to be of a correct size and type of paper. Many ballots were arbitrarily rejected because they slightly deviated from the requirements. Ballots could also randomly be rejected if there were more ballots in a box than registered voters.\n\nThe multiple-ballot box law was challenged in court. On May 8, 1895, Judge Goff of the United States Circuit Court declared the provision unconstitutional and enjoined the state from taking further action under it. But in June 1895, the US Circuit Court of Appeals reversed Judge Goff and dissolved the injunction, leaving the way open for a convention.\n\nThe constitutional convention met on September 10 and adjourned on December 4, 1895. By the new constitution, South Carolina adopted the Mississippi Plan until January 1, 1898. Any male citizen could be registered who was able to read a section of the constitution or to satisfy the election officer that he understood it when read to him. Those thus registered were to remain voters for life. Under the new constitution and application of literacy practices, black voters were dropped in great number from the registration rolls: by 1896, in a state where according to the 1890 census blacks numbered 728,934 and comprised nearly sixty percent of the total population, only 5,500 black voters had succeeded in registering.\n\nStates also used grandfather clauses to enable illiterate whites who could not pass a literacy test to vote. It allowed a man to vote if his grandfather or father had voted prior to January 1, 1867; at that time, most African Americans had been slaves, while free people of color, even if property owners, and freedmen were ineligible to vote until 1870.\n\nJustice Benjamin Curtis' dissent in \"Dred Scott v. Sandford, 60 U.S. 393 (1857)\" had noted that free people of color in numerous states had the right to vote at the time of the Articles of Confederation (as part of the argument about whether people of African descent could be citizens of the new United States):\n\nOf this, there can be no doubt. At the time of the ratification of the Articles of Confederation, all free native-born inhabitants of the States of New Hampshire, Massachusetts, New York, New Jersey, and North Carolina, though descended from African slaves, were not only citizens of those States, but such of them as had the other necessary qualifications possessed the franchise of electors, on equal terms with other citizens.\n\nNorth Carolina's constitutional amendment of 1900 exempted from the poll tax those men entitled to vote as of January 1, 1867, another type of use of a grandfather clause. Virginia also used a type of grandfather clause.\n\nIn \"Guinn v. United States\" (1915), the Supreme Court invalidated the Oklahoma Constitution's \"old soldier\" and \"grandfather clause\" exemptions from literacy tests. In practice, these had disenfranchised blacks, as had occurred in numerous Southern states. This decision affected similar provisions in the constitutions of Alabama, Georgia, Louisiana, North Carolina, and Virginia election rules. Oklahoma and other states quickly reacted by passing laws that created other rules for voter registration that worked against blacks and minorities. \"Guinn\" was the first of many cases in which the NAACP filed a brief challenging discriminatory electoral rules.\n\nIn \"Lane v. Wilson\" (1939), the Supreme Court invalidated an Oklahoma provision designed to disenfranchise blacks. It had replaced the clause struck down in \"Guinn.\" This clause permanently disenfranchised everyone qualified to vote who had not registered to vote in a twelve-day window between April 30 and May 11, 1916, except for those who had voted in 1914. While designed to be more resistant to challenges based on discrimination, as the law did not specifically mention race, the Court struck it down partially because it relied on the 1914 election, when voters had been discriminated against under the rule invalidated in \"Guinn.\"\n\nAbout the turn of the 20th century, white members of the Democratic Party in some Southern states devised rules that excluded blacks and other minorities from participating in party primaries. These became common for all elections. As the Democratic Party was dominant and the only competitive voting was in the primaries, barring minority voters from the primaries was another means of excluding them from politics. Court challenges overturned the white primary system, but many states then passed laws that authorized political parties to set up the rules for their own systems, such as the white primary. Texas, for instance, passed such a state law in 1923. It was used to bar Mexican Americans as well as black Americans from voting; it survived challenges to the US Supreme Court until the 1940s.\n\nThe North had heard the South's version of Reconstruction abuses, such as financial corruption, high taxes, and incompetent freedmen. Industry wanted to invest in the South and not worry about political problems. In addition, reconciliation between white veterans of the North and South reached a peak in the early 20th century. As historian David Blight demonstrated in \"Race and Reunion: The Civil War in American Memory\", reconciliation meant the pushing aside by whites of the major issues of race and suffrage. Southern whites were effective for many years at having their version of history accepted, especially as it was confirmed in ensuing decades by influential historians of the Dunning School at Columbia University and other institutions.\n\nDisfranchisement of black Americans in the South was covered by national newspapers and magazines as new laws and constitutions were created, and many Northerners were outraged and alarmed. The Lodge Bill or Federal Elections Bill or Lodge Force Bill of 1890 was a bill drafted by Representative Henry Cabot Lodge (R) of Massachusetts, and sponsored in the Senate by George Frisbie Hoar. It would have authorized federal electors to supervise elections under certain conditions. Due to a Senate filibuster, as well as trade-off of support with Democrats by western Silver Republicans, the bill failed to pass.\n\nIn 1900 the Committee of Census of Congress considered proposals for adding more seats to the House of Representatives because of increased population. Proposals ranged for a total number of seats from 357 to 386. Edgar D. Crumpacker (R-IN) filed an independent report urging that the Southern states be stripped of seats due to the large numbers of voters they had disfranchised. He noted this was provided for in Section 2 of the Fourteenth Amendment, which provided for stripping representation from states that reduced suffrage due to race. The Committee and House failed to agree on this proposal. Supporters of black suffrage worked to secure Congressional investigation of disfranchisement, but concerted opposition of the Southern Democratic bloc was aroused, and the efforts failed.\n\nFrom 1896 to 1900, the House of Representatives with a Republican majority had acted in more than thirty cases to set aside election results from Southern states where the House Elections Committee had concluded that \"black voters had been excluded due to fraud, violence, or intimidation.\" Nevertheless, in the early 20th century, it began to back off from its enforcement of the Fifteenth Amendment and suggested that state and federal courts should exercise oversight of this issue. The Southern bloc of Democrats exercised increasing power in the House. They had no interest in protecting suffrage for blacks.\n\nIn 1904 Congress administered a coup de grâce to efforts to investigate disfranchisement in its decision in the 1904 South Carolina election challenge of \"Dantzler v. Lever\". The House Committee on Elections upheld Lever's victory. It suggested that citizens of South Carolina who believed their rights were denied should take their cases to the state courts, and ultimately, the US Supreme Court. Blacks had no recourse through the Southern state courts, which would not uphold their rights. Because they were disfranchised, blacks could not serve on juries, and whites were clearly aligned against them on this and other racial issues.\nDespite the Lever decision and domination of Congress by Democrats, some Northern Congressmen continued to raise the issue of black disfranchisement and resulting malapportionment. For instance, on December 6, 1920, Representative George H. Tinkham from Massachusetts offered a resolution for the Committee of Census to investigate alleged disfranchisement of blacks. His intention was to enforce the provisions of the Fourteenth and Fifteenth amendments.\n\nIn addition, he believed there should be reapportionment in the House related to the voting population of southern states, rather than the general population as enumerated in the census. Such reapportionment was authorized by the Constitution and would reflect reality, so that the South should not get credit for people and voters it had disfranchised. Tinkham detailed how outsized the South's representation was related to the total number of voters in each state, compared to other states with the same number of representatives:\n\nTinkham was defeated by the Democratic Southern Bloc, and also by fears amongst the northern business elites of increasing the voting power of Northern urban working classes, whom both northern business and Southern planter elites believed would vote for large-scale income redistribution at a Federal level.\n\nAfter Herbert Hoover was elected in a landslide in 1928, gaining support from five southern states, Tinkham renewed his effort in the spring of 1929 to persuade Congress to penalize southern states under the Fourteenth and Fifteenth amendments for their racial discrimination. He suggested reduction of their congressional delegations in proportion to the populations they had disenfranchised. He was defeated again by the Solid South. Its representatives had rallied in outrage that the First Lady had invited Jessie De Priest for tea to the White House with other congressional wives. She was the wife of Oscar Stanton De Priest from Chicago, the first African-American elected to Congress in the 20th century.\n\nSegregation of the federal service began under President Theodore Roosevelt, and continued under President Taft. President Wilson escalated the process, ignoring complaints by the NAACP. The NAACP lobbied for commissioning of African Americans as officers in World War I. It was arranged for W.E.B. Du Bois to receive an Army commission, but he failed his physical. In 1915 the NAACP organized public education and protests in cities across the nation against D.W. Griffith's film \"Birth of a Nation\", a film that glamorized the Ku Klux Klan. Boston and a few other cities refused to allow the film to open.\n\nIn 1912 Woodrow Wilson became the first Southerner to win a presidential election since 1856. In 1912, the extra Southern electoral votes were not a decisive factor. Wilson won the election in a landslide, not only winning every Southern and border state electoral vote but also winning a large majority of electoral votes outside the South. However, Southern electoral votes did prove decisive in securing Wilson's re-election in the much closer 1916 presidential election.\n\nBlack Americans and their allies worked hard to regain their ability to exercise the constitutional rights of citizens. Booker T. Washington, widely known for his accommodationist approach as the leader of the Tuskegee Institute, called on northern backers to help finance legal challenges to disenfranchisement and segregation. He raised substantial funds and also arranged for representation on some cases, such as the two for Giles in Alabama. He challenged the state's grandfather clause and a citizenship test required for new voters, which was administered in a discriminatory way against blacks.\n\nIn its ruling in \"Giles v. Harris\" (1903), the United States Supreme Court under Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr. effectively upheld such southern voter registration provisions in dealing with a challenge to the Alabama constitution. Its decision said the provisions were not targeted at blacks and thus did not deprive them of rights. This has been characterized as the \"most momentous ignored decision\" in constitutional history.\n\nTrying to deal with the grounds of the Court's ruling, Giles mounted another challenge. In \"Giles v. Teasley\" (1904), the U.S. Supreme Court upheld Alabama's disenfranchising constitution. That same year the Congress refused to overturn a disputed election, and essentially sent plaintiffs back to the state courts. Even when black plaintiffs gained rulings in their favor from the Supreme Court, states quickly devised alternative ways to exclude them from the political process. It was not until later in the 20th century that such legal challenges on disenfranchisement began to meet more success in the courts.\n\nWith the founding of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) in 1909, the interracial group based in New York began to provide financial and strategic support to lawsuits on voting issues. What became the NAACP Legal Defense Fund organized and mounted numerous cases in repeated court and legal challenges to the many barriers of segregation, including disenfranchisement provisions of the states. The NAACP often represented plaintiffs directly, or helped raise funds to support legal challenges. The NAACP also worked at public education, lobbying of Congress, demonstrations, and encouragement of theater and academic writing as other means to reach the public. NAACP chapters were organized in cities across the country, and membership increased rapidly in the South. The American Civil Liberties Union also represented plaintiffs in some disenfranchisement cases.\n\nIn \"Smith v. Allwright\" (1944), the Supreme Court reviewed a Texas case and ruled against the white primary; the state legislature had authorized the Democratic Party to devise its own rules of operation. The 1944 court ruling was that this was unconstitutional, as the state had failed to protect the constitutional rights of its citizens.\n\nFollowing the 1944 ruling, civil rights organizations in major cities moved quickly to register black voters. For instance, in Georgia, in 1940 only 20,000 blacks had managed to register to vote. After the Supreme Court decision, the All-Citizens Registration Committee (ACRC) of Atlanta started organizing. By 1947 they and others had succeeded in getting 125,000 black Americans registered, 18.8% of those of eligible age.\n\nEach legal victory was followed by white-dominated legislatures' renewed efforts to control black voting through different exclusionary schemes. In the 1940s, Alabama passed a law to give white registrars more discretion in testing applicants for comprehension and literacy. In 1958 Georgia passed a new voter registration act that required those who were illiterate to satisfy \"understanding tests\" by correctly answering 20 of 30 questions related to citizenship posed by the voting registrar. Blacks had made substantial advances in education, but the individual white registrars were the sole persons to determine whether individual prospective voters answered correctly. In practice, registrars disqualified most black voters, whether they were educated or not. In Terrell County, for instance, which was 64% black in population, after passage of the act, only 48 black Americans were able to register to vote in 1958.\n\nThe NAACP's steady progress with individual cases was thwarted by southern Democrats' continuing resistance and passage of new statutory barriers to blacks' exercising the franchise. Through the 1950s and 1960s, private citizens enlarged the effort by becoming activists throughout the South, led by many black churches and their leaders, and joined by both young and older activists from northern states. Nonviolent confrontation and demonstrations were mounted in numerous Southern cities, often provoking violent reaction by white bystanders and authorities. The moral crusade of the Civil Rights Movement gained national media coverage, attention across the country, and a growing national demand for change.\n\nWidespread violence against the Freedom Riders in 1961, which was covered by television and newspapers, the murders of activists in Alabama in 1963 gained support for the activists' cause at the national level. President John F. Kennedy introduced civil rights legislation to Congress in 1963 before he was assassinated.\n\nPresident Lyndon B. Johnson took up the charge. In January 1964, Johnson met with civil rights leaders. On January 8, during his first State of the Union address, Johnson asked Congress to \"let this session of Congress be known as the session which did more for civil rights than the last hundred sessions combined.\" On January 23, 1964, the 24th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, prohibiting the use of poll taxes in national elections, was ratified with the approval of South Dakota, the 38th state to do so.\n\nOn June 21, 1964, civil rights workers Michael Schwerner, Andrew Goodman, and James Chaney, disappeared in Neshoba County, Mississippi. The three were volunteers aiding in the registration of black voters as part of the Mississippi Freedom Summer Project. Forty-four days later the Federal Bureau of Investigation recovered their bodies from an earthen dam where they were buried. The Neshoba County deputy sheriff Cecil Price and 16 others, all Ku Klux Klan members, were indicted for the murders; seven were convicted. The investigation also revealed the bodies of several black men, whose deaths had never been revealed or prosecuted by white law enforcement officials.\n\nWhen the Civil Rights Bill came before the full Senate for debate on March 30, 1964, the \"Southern Bloc\" of 18 southern Democratic Senators and one Republican Senator, led by Richard Russell (D-GA), launched a filibuster to prevent its passage. Russell said:\n\nAfter 57 working days of filibuster, and several compromises, the Senate had enough votes (71 to 29) to end the debate and the filibuster. It was the first time that Southern senators had failed to win with such tactics against civil rights bills. On July 2, President Johnson signed into law the Civil Rights Act of 1964. The Act prohibited segregation in public places and barred unequal application of voter registration requirements. It did not explicitly ban literacy tests, which had been used to disqualify blacks and poor white voters.\n\nAs the United States Department of Justice has stated:\n\nBy 1965 concerted efforts to break the grip of state disenfranchisement (sic) had been under way for some time, but had achieved only modest success overall and in some areas had proved almost entirely ineffectual. The murder of voting-rights activists in Philadelphia, Mississippi, gained national attention, along with numerous other acts of violence and terrorism. Finally, the unprovoked attack on March 7, 1965, by state troopers on peaceful marchers crossing the Edmund Pettus Bridge in Selma, Alabama, en route to the state capitol in Montgomery, persuaded the President and Congress to overcome Southern legislators' resistance to effective voting rights legislation. President Johnson issued a call for a strong voting rights law and hearings began soon thereafter on the bill that would become the Voting Rights Act.\n\nPassed in 1965, this law prohibited the use of literacy tests as a requirement to register to vote. It provided for recourse for local voters to federal oversight and intervention, plus federal monitoring of areas that historically had low voter turnouts to ensure that new measures were not taken against minority voters. It provided for federal enforcement of voting rights. African Americans began to enter the formal political process, most in the South for the first time in their lives. They have since won numerous seats and offices at local, state and federal levels.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40586174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40586174", "title": "Dolores Elizabeth “Lola” Chávez de Armijo", "text": "Dolores Elizabeth “Lola” Chávez de Armijo\n\nDolores Elizabeth “Lola” Chávez de Armijo (born at Albuquerque, New Mexico in 1858, died at Santa Fe, New Mexico in 1929) was a librarian. She was a state librarian in New Mexico, and in 1912 William C. McDonald the governor of New Mexico claimed that women were unqualified to hold office under the constitution and laws of New Mexico, and tried to replace Dolores by using a court order. He wanted to replace her with a male friend to whom he owed a political favor. In response, Dolores filed a lawsuit with the New Mexico Supreme Court; the court ruled in her favor, allowing her to keep her position, and subsequent legislation gave women the right to hold appointed offices in New Mexico. Dolores was the first woman and first Hispanic woman to serve in a statewide capacity in New Mexico.\n\nHer father, José Francisco Chaves, was a Republican political leader in the New Mexico Territory.\n\nA New Mexico Historic Women Marker that describes her lawsuit was erected by the New Mexico Historic Preservation Division at some time after 2005. It is at 35° 12.043′ N, 106° 30.864′ W. near Albuquerque, New Mexico, in Bernalillo County. It is on Tramway Road NE (New Mexico Route 556 at milepost 5.6), half a mile west of Federal Route 333, on the right when traveling east, and in the post office area of Albuquerque NM 87122, United States of America.\n\nThe marker is inscribed on its front as follows:\"Doña Dolores 'Lola' Chávez de Armijo (1858-1929) In 1912, State Librarian Lola Chávez de Armijo filed a gender discrimination law suit after the governor sought to replace her by court order, claiming that as a woman, she was unqualified to hold office under the constitution and laws of New Mexico. The New Mexico Supreme Court ruled in her favor and legislation followed, thereafter allowing women to hold appointed office.\"\n\nThe marker is inscribed on its back as follows, \"New Mexico Historic Women Marker Initiative\". The New Mexico Historic Women Marker Initiative was founded in 2005 by members of the New Mexico Women's Forum in a statewide effort to recognize women's contributions to New Mexico history on the state's Official Scenic Historic Markers. The Initiative ensures that women's diverse histories will be remembered and told, and will inspire and provide a guide for future generations. The 2006 Legislature funded the project.\"\n"}
{"id": "1166569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1166569", "title": "Edict of Restitution", "text": "Edict of Restitution\n\nThe Edict of Restitution, passed eleven years into the Thirty Years' War on March 6, 1629 following Catholic successes at arms, was a belated attempt by Ferdinand II, Holy Roman Emperor to restore the religious and territorial situations reached in the Peace of Augsburg (1555), whose \"Ecclesiastical Reservation\" had impeded the secularization of Catholic church lands after 1555, as no further Catholic church lands could legally be transferred to Protestant control. However, for several decades weak emperors had been unable to enforce the \"Ecclesiastical Reservation\" against Protestant encroachments.\n\nThis lack of decisive or effective authority along with the Protestant view of the legal interpretation as well as the value of the land and the characteristic dislike for all things Catholic led several princes to secularize the Catholic church lands under the treaty established and customary practice of \"cuius regio, eius religio\". This usually occurred when a Catholic head of the church converted to Protestantism.\n\nThe Peace of Augsburg, signed in 1555, had confirmed the result of the Diet of Speyer (1526) which had, by agreeing to disagree, ended with this principle as a prime result. With that principle confirmed by the Treaty at Augsburg, the violence of that earlier day between the Lutherans and the Catholics in Germany ended —at least for the generation, until renewed tensions brought about the Thirty Years' War.\n\nBehind all this were the inheritance practices in Europe as a whole and in particular the German states within the Holy Roman Empire. Land and control over it was a source of both power and wealth, and the noble families sought to control as much land within the extended family as was possible, for example by appointing younger sons prince-bishops or prince-abbots.\n\nThe \"Edict of Restitution\" was an attempt to ensure that the \"Ecclesiastical Reservation\" of the Augsburg treaty was retroactively enforced. It had a tremendously polarizing effect causing the approximately 1,800 states of the Holy Roman Empire to shatter into disparate blocks of opposed interests.\n\nIf fully effected, it would have affected the already secularized archbishoprics of Bremen and Magdeburg, 12 bishoprics and over 100 religious houses around the German states. The Edict resulted in a great transfer of power and property away from the Protestants to the Catholics, and in effect broadened a divisive religious struggle into that plus a dynastic struggle for power, as seen from the viewpoint of many smaller German princes, who might otherwise have stayed neutral.\n\nOther states were greatly affected when the mercenary armies marched through neutral states or ravaged them in the course of their foraging expeditions. Thousands of Protestants fled to Protestant controlled states, generally broadening the war, and central Germany was ravaged repeatedly, by some estimates losing between 25–50% of its pre-war population because the competing armies continually took the food—the majority of civilian deaths being caused by the twin side-effects of famine, and deaths from endemic diseases under populations weakened by famine.\n\nThe greatest impact was in north-east Germany. It was here that Ferdinand's power was at its weakest. Ferdinand appointed Imperial administrators to take over the secularized states and cities, re-establishing Imperial authority in an area that had been free of Imperial rule for nearly 100 years. Ferdinand's actions were not well received by the princes. It was a move that alarmed the French and led to the French intervention in the war.\n\nThe German princes could do nothing. They had seen the Coalition destroyed. Wallenstein had a massive army of 134,000 troops in the field to enforce Imperial authority.\n\nWallenstein disliked the Edict as it trespassed into the region he considered his own but he played his part for the emperor to the full. He stated that \"he would teach the Electors manners. They must be dependent on the emperor, not the emperor on them.\" The response of the princes was to rally behind Maximillian of Bavaria to pressure Ferdinand into dismissing Wallenstein.\n\nTheir chance came in 1630 when Ferdinand called a meeting of the Electors in Regensburg because he wanted his son, Ferdinand III, elected King of the Romans. According to the law, the emperor of the Holy Roman Empire was selected by a vote from the Electorate of German princes. Therefore, Ferdinand needed their cooperation to approve his son as successor. Ferdinand also hoped to persuade the Electors to approve greater Imperial involvement in the European wars.\n\nJohn George I of Saxony and George William of Brandenburg (both Protestant) stayed away to protest the Edict of Restitution. Those Electors present realized that they had little to gain from additional involvement in the wars. However, Maximillian still asked Ferdinand for the dismissal of Wallenstein.\n\nTo win over the Electors, Ferdinand sacked Wallenstein in August 1630 though Wallenstein argued that he was allowed to resign to save face. The dismissal of the most powerful military figure in Europe was a major victory for the Electors and Regensburg must be seen as a defeat for Ferdinand.\n\nAll of this was overshadowed in July 1630 — Gustavus Adolphus landed in Pomerania with 4,000 men in response to the persecution of the Protestants. Without Wallenstein, Ferdinand had to turn to Maximillian and Tilly to stop the new threat.\n\nIn 1635 the Edict of Restitution was effectively revoked, with the terms of the Peace of Prague.\n"}
{"id": "36860606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36860606", "title": "Electoral Registration and Administration Act 2013", "text": "Electoral Registration and Administration Act 2013\n\nThe Electoral Registration and Administration Act 2013 (c. 6) is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom which amended electoral law in the United Kingdom. It introduced Individual Electoral Registration (IER).\n\nThe Westminster government had introduced IER to Northern Ireland in 2002 in the Electoral Fraud (Northern Ireland) Act 2002, but England, Wales and Scotland continued to use a system of householder registration.\n\nWith the Sixth Periodic Review of Westminster constituencies in some doubt following the collapse of the House of Lords Reform Bill 2012, there had been some criticism of the money spent on boundary reviews whilst also favouring introducing IER. The Electoral Commission suggested that there could be a severe drop in turnout as a result. Section 6 of the Bill effectively postpones the Sixth Periodic Review until \"not before 1 October 2018\".\n\nThere are three Parts to the Bill.\n\nThis part has twelve sections, which introduce and set the administrative structure for IER. The Act amends the Representation of the People Act 1983 and the Representation of the People Act 2000.\n\nAlterations and improvements to the annual canvass of voters are introduced in this Part.\n\nThis part alters the timetable of parliamentary elections, modifies the timetable for civil parish elections in England and Wales, changes the regulations around the register of electors in specific circumstances, and alters the 1983 Representation of the People Act with regard to polling districts.\n\nSection 18 introduces changes to current regulations relating to the 'inadequate performance' of returning officers.\n\nSection 19 modifies the rules on joint ticket candidatures at elections, permitting the use of an emblem of one of the parties or a combined emblem on ballot papers.\n\nSection 22 repeals from the provisions of the Electoral Administration Act 2006 for the setting up of a Coordinated Online Register of Electors.\n\nThis section deals with the extent and name of the Bill.\n\nCommittee stage discussion of the Bill commenced on Monday 29 November. Amongst proposed amendments put forward for debate is a new clause allowing for weekend voting, put forward by Lord Rennard and Lord Tyler.\n\n"}
{"id": "22677863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22677863", "title": "European labour law", "text": "European labour law\n\nEuropean labour law regulates basic transnational standards of employment and partnership at work in the European Union and countries adhering to the European Convention on Human Rights.\n\nThe European Union, under the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, article 153(1) is able to use the ordinary legislation procedure on a list of labour law fields. This notably excludes wage regulation and collective bargaining. Four main fields of EU regulation of labour rights include (1) individual labour rights, (2) anti-discrimination regulations, (3) rights to information, consultation, and participation at work, and (4) rights to job security. In virtually all cases, the EU follows the principle that member states can always create rights more beneficial to workers.\n\nThe fundamental principle of labour law is that employees' unequal bargaining power justifies substitution of rules in property and contract with positive social rights so that people may earn a living to fully participate in a democratic society. The EU's competences generally follow principles codified in the Community Charter of the Fundamental Social Rights of Workers 1989, introduced in the \"social chapter\" of the Treaty of Maastricht.\n\nWhile free movement of workers was central to the first European Economic Community agreement, the development of European labour law has been a gradual process. Originally, the Ohlin Report of 1956 recommended that labour standards did not need to be harmonised, although a general principle of anti-discrimination between men and women was included in the early Treaties. Increasingly, the absence of labour rights was seen as inadequate given the capacity for a \"race to the bottom\" in international trade if corporations can shift jobs and production to countries with low wages.\n\nThe Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (deriving from the Treaty of Lisbon) lists in article 2(1) the European Union's competence in the field of labour law. What is conspicuously not included is unjust dismissal of workers, and according to article 153(5) \"pay, the right of association, the right to strike or the right to impose lock-outs\". As it says, \"the Union shall support and complement the activities of the Member States in the following fields:\"\n\nThe objectives draw, according to TFEU article 151, inspiration from a number of other treaties and sources, which in turn draw inspiration from the International Labour Organization and the Versailles Treaty.\n\nA first group of Directives create a range of individual rights in EU employment relationships. The objective of transnational regulation is to progressively raise the minimum floor in line with economic development.\n\n\nThe Employment Information Directive 1991 requires that every employee (however defined by member state law) has the right to a written statement of their employment contract.\n\nThe consistent jurisprudence of the European Court of Justice is that an employee is generally to be defined according to the fact that he or she is invariably the weaker party in an employment contract, and works under the direction of another.\nThe European Court of Justice expressly rules that there are generally no exemptions from the term \"employee\" for executives under European Law, which would allow member states to restrict employee protection on non-executive-employees.\n\nArticles state that workers have the right to move freely and work anywhere in the EU, without discrimination on grounds of nationality, subject to exceptions to preserve public policy, security and health.\n\nThere is also an old Directive concerning posted workers which has recently become highly contentious given decisions by the ECJ in \"The Rosella\" and \"Laval\".\n\nReflecting basic standards in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and ILO Conventions, the Working Time Directive 2003 requires a minimum of 4 weeks (totalling 28 days) paid holidays each year, a minimum of 20-minute paid rest breaks for 6-hour work shifts, limits on night work or time spent on dangerous work, and a maximum 48-hour working week unless a worker individually consents. The Parental Leave Directive 2010 creates a bare minimum of 4 months of unpaid leave for parents (mothers, fathers, or legal guardians) to care for children before they turn 8 years old, and the Pregnant Workers Directive 1992 creates a right for mothers to a minimum of 14 weeks' paid leave to care for children.\n\nThe Safety and Health at Work Directive 1989 requires basic requirements to prevent and insure against workplace risks, with employee consultation and participation, and this is complemented by specialised Directives, ranging from work equipment to dangerous industries. In almost all cases, all member states go significantly beyond this minimum.\n\n\nWhile there is no wage regulation, the Institutions for Occupational Retirement Provision Directive 2003 requires that pension benefits are protected through a national insurance fund, that information is provided to beneficiaries, and minimum standards of governance are observed. These include protecting the \"pension promise\" of employers in the event of business trouble, and require minimum standards of funding. Most member states go far beyond these requirements, particularly by requiring a vote for employees in who manages their money.\n\n\nSince the global financial crisis beginning in 2007, the EU acted to create a network of transnational financial regulators in an attempt to prevent the undercutting of standards by countries competing on low regulation. One of these is the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority, which replaced a committee known as the \"Committee of European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Supervisors\". \n\n\n\nThe EU is formally not enabled to legislate on collective bargaining, although the EU, with all member states, is bound by the jurisprudence of the European Court of Human Rights on freedom of association.\n\nIf a company transforms from a member state corporation to incorporate under the European Company Regulation 2001, employees are entitled to no less favourable representation than under the member state's existing board participation laws. This is practically important as a majority of EU member states require employee representation on company boards.\n\n\nThe Information and Consultation Directive 2002 requires that workplaces with over 20 or 50 staff have the right to set up elected work councils with a range of binding rights, the European Works Council Directive 2009 enables work councils transnationally, and the Employee Involvement Directive 2001 requires representation of workers on company boards in some European Companies. In total, the requirement to inform and consult the workforce (negotiate with a view to agreement) is found in four directives.\n\n\nTheoretically, only the European Court of Human Rights should have competence to decide issues related to collective bargaining and industrial action, as the European Union treaties do not confer competence on the EU to legislate on such issues. The ECHR's scope extends to collective bargaining given the right to freedom of association under article 11. In \"Wilson and Palmer v United Kingdom\" the Court held that any detriment for membership of a trade union was incompatible with article 11, and in \"Demir and Baykara v Turkey\" the Court held \"the right to bargain collectively with the employer has, in principle, become one of the essential elements\" of article 11. This approach, which includes affirmation of the fundamental right to strike in all democratic member states, has been seen as lying in tension with some of the Court of Justice's previous case law, notably \"ITWF v Viking Line ABP\" and \"Laval Un Partneri Ltd v Svenska Byggnadsarbetareforbundet\". These controversial decisions, quickly disapproved by legislative measures, suggested the fundamental right of workers to take collective action was subordinate to business freedom to establish and provide services.\n\nBeyond the general principle of equality in EU law, six main Directives protect basic equality rights in EU law. The rules are not consolidated, and on gender pay potentially limited in not enabling a hypothetical comparator, or comparators in outsourced business. Equality rules do not yet apply to child care rights, which only give women substantial time off, and consequently hinder equality in men and women caring for children after birth, and pursuing their careers.\n\nThe principle of equality regardless of status is a fundamental value in all European member states, and constitutes a core principle that pervades the objectives of every institution. Equality was affirmed by the Court of Justice in \"Kücükdeveci v Swedex GmbH & Co KG\" to be a general principle of EU law.\n\n\nThis is reflected in a number of TFEU provisions.\n\n\nThe Race Equality Directive 2000, Equality Framework Directive 2000 and Equal Treatment Directive 2006 prohibit discrimination based on sexual orientation, disability, religion or belief, age, race and gender. As well as \"direct discrimination\", there is a prohibition on \"indirect discrimination\" where employers apply a neutral rule to everybody, but this has a disproportionate impact on the protected group.\n\n\nThe Part-time Work Directive 1997, Fixed-term Work Directive 1999 and Temporary Agency Work Directive 2008 generally require that people who do not have ordinary full-time, permanent contracts are treated no less favourably than their colleagues. However, the scope of the protected worker is left to member state law, and the TAWD 2008 only applies to \"basic working conditions\" (mostly pay, working hours and participation rights) and enabled member states to have a qualifying period.\n\n\nMinimum job security rights are provided by three Directives. There are further norms in the Treaties which aspire to create a high level of employment in the EU.\n\nThe Collective Redundancies Directive 1998 specifies that minimum periods of notice and consultation occur if more than a set number of jobs in a workplace are at risk. The Transfers of Undertakings Directive 2001 require that staff retain all contractual rights, unless there is an independent economic, technical or organisational reason, if their workplace is sold from one company to another. Last, the Insolvency Protection Directive 2008 requires that employees' wage claims are protected in the event that their employer falls insolvent. This last Directive gave rise to \"Francovich v Italy\", where the Court of Justice affirmed that member states which fail to implement the minimum standards in EU Directives are liable to pay compensation to employees who should have rights under them.\n\n\nToday, the EU is required under TFEU article 147 to contribute to a \"high level of employment by encouraging cooperation between Member States\". This has not resulted in legislation, which usually requires taxation and fiscal stimulus for significant change, while the European Central Bank's monetary policy has been acutely controversial during the Eurozone crisis. The EU undertakes ad-hoc initiatives to combat unemployment, but only indirectly through better regulation. It does not have any specific fiscal stimulus programme, outside funds used for general regional development.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11050621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11050621", "title": "Florida State University Business Law Review", "text": "Florida State University Business Law Review\n\nThe Florida State University Business Review is a legal journal published at the Florida State University College of Law. It was founded in 2000 to provide a scholarly forum for contemporary legal discourse and to address the issues and concerns transforming the business community. It is generally recognized among the top 10 business reviews in the US based on citations. The current Editors-in-Chief are C. Alex Weaver and Eric S. Pendergraft.\n"}
{"id": "13556683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13556683", "title": "Franco-Soviet Treaty of Mutual Assistance", "text": "Franco-Soviet Treaty of Mutual Assistance\n\nThe Franco-Soviet Treaty of Mutual Assistance was a bilateral treaty between the two countries with the aim of enveloping Nazi Germany in 1935 in order to reduce the threat from central Europe. It was pursued by Louis Barthou, the French foreign minister, but he was assassinated in October 1934, before negotiations were finished. His successor, Pierre Laval, was skeptical of both the desirability and the value of an alliance with the Soviet Union. However, after the declaration of German rearmament in March 1935 the French government forced the reluctant foreign minister to complete the arrangements with Moscow that Barthou had begun. The pact was concluded in Paris on May 2, 1935 and ratified by the French government in February 1936. Ratifications were exchanged in Moscow on March 27, 1936, and the pact went into effect on the same day. It was registered in \"League of Nations Treaty Series\" on April 18, 1936.\n\nOn May 2, 1935, France and the USSR concluded the pact of mutual assistance. Laval had taken the precaution of ensuring that the bilateral treaty agreement was strictly compatible with the multilateral provisions of the League of Nations Covenant and Locarno Treaties. What this meant in practice was that military assistance could be rendered by one signatory to the other only after an allegation of unprovoked aggression had been submitted to the League and only after prior approval of the other signatories of the Locarno pact (the United Kingdom, Italy and Belgium) had been attained. The effectiveness of this pact was undermined even further by the French government's insistent refusal to accept a military convention stipulating the way in which the two armies would coordinate actions in the event of war with Germany.\n\nThe pact was no longer what Louis Barthou had originally planned, but it remained to serve the purpose of acting as a hollow diplomatic threat of war on two fronts for Germany, should Germany pursue an aggressive foreign policy. Most of the Locarno powers felt that it would only act as a means of dragging them into a suicidal war with Germany for Russia's benefit. It marked a large scale shift in Soviet policy in the Seventh Congress of the Comintern from a pro-revisionist stance against the Treaty of Versailles to a more western-oriented foreign policy as championed by Maxim Litvinov. Adolf Hitler justified the remilitarization of the Rhineland by the ratification of the treaty in the French parliament, claiming that he felt threatened by the pact. Former World War I Liberal British Prime Minister David Lloyd George stated in the House of Commons of the United Kingdom that Hitler's actions in the wake of this pact were fully justified, and he would have been a traitor to Germany if he had not protected his country.\n\n\n\nProtocole de Signature\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4242030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4242030", "title": "Freedom of navigation", "text": "Freedom of navigation\n\nFreedom of navigation (FON) is a principle of customary international law that ships flying the flag of any sovereign state shall not suffer interference from other states, apart from the exceptions provided for in international law. This right is now also codified as article 87(1)a of the 1982 United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. Not all UN member states have ratified the convention; notably, the United States has signed, but not ratified the convention.\n\nUntil the early modern period, international maritime law was governed by customs that were sometimes codified: as for example in the 14th-century Catalan \"Consulate of the Sea\" (Catalan: \"Consolat de mar\"; Italian: \"Consolato del mare\"; also known in English as the \"Customs of the Sea\"). Such customs governed cases in prize courts about the capture of goods on the high seas by privateers. This rule can be distilled from the \"Consolato\" (and other contemporary codes): \"enemy goods can be captured on neutral ships and neutral goods are free on board enemy's ships.\" The first part of the rule implies that neutral shipping is not inviolable in time of war, but the second part implies that goods of neutral owners are. The former contradicts what is now called \"freedom of navigation.\" The doctrine, which hereafter will be referred to as the \"consolato\" rule for short, was long observed by England (later Great Britain), France, and Spain, as major naval powers.\n\nHowever, beginning in the 17th century, the Dutch Republic, the dominant European carrier, championed a different rule, known as \"a free ship [makes] free goods.\" This meant that even enemy goods, always excepting contraband, were inviolate in neutral bottoms (i.e. hulls), but sometimes the corollary of the rule was that neutral goods carried by enemy ships could be confiscated. The first part of the rule, however, makes neutral ships inviolable and so is the core of the freedom-of-navigation doctrine. \n\nAs the doctrine went against international custom, it had to be embodied in bilateral treaties to become part of international law. The earliest example of such a treaty is actually one concluded between king Henry IV of France and the Ottoman Porte in 1609, but that was followed in 1612 by one between the Porte and the Dutch Republic. Once the Eighty Years' War between Spain and the Dutch Republic had ended during which Spain defended their claim of sovereignty over the oceans against the Dutch claim of \"freedom of the high seas,\" as developed in Hugo Grotius' Mare Liberum, the two concluded a treaty of commerce in which \"free ship, free goods\" was enshrined. The Dutch Republic subsequently concluded bilateral treaties with most other European countries, containing the \"free ship, free goods\" principle, but it sometimes had to use force to obtain that concession, as against England in the Treaty of Breda (1667) and again in the Treaty of Westminster (1674). England, however, also held fast to the \"consolato\" rule in relations with other countries, as did France, until in 1744 it relented and extended the privilege to the neutral Dutch.\n\nThe Dutch had also, by using treaty law, built up a web of bilateral treaties that extended the privilege of \"freedom of navigation\" to their ships. During the many 18th-century European wars they remained neutral, serving all belligerents with their shipping services. Great Britain, in particular, chafed under the arrangement, as it was the dominant naval power in the 18th century, and the Dutch privilege undermined the effectiveness of its naval blockades. Matters came to a head during the War of the American Revolution, when the Dutch, shielded by the 1674 Anglo-Dutch treaty, supplied both the Americans and the French. The British made extensive use of their \"right of search\" of Dutch ships, which led to the Affair of Fielding and Bylandt by which a British naval squadron, in peacetime, arrested a Dutch convoy despite the objections of its Dutch naval escort.\n\nSoon afterward, the British abrogated the 1674 treaty, which might have meant the death of the \"free ship, free goods\" doctrine, but Empress Catherine II of Russia had taken up the torch around the same time. In March 1780, she published a manifesto in which (among other things) she claimed the \"free ship, free goods\" principle, as a fundamental right of neutral states. To defend that principle, she formed the First League of Armed Neutrality to which the Dutch adhered at the end of the year (which sparked the Fourth Anglo-Dutch War). The principles from her manifesto were soon adhered to by the members of the League and by France, Spain and the new American Republic also (even if, as belligerents, they could not become members of the League).\n\nNevertheless, as a principle of international law (apart from treaty law) \"free ship, free goods\" was soon again overturned by the practice of both sides in the French Revolutionary Wars of the turn of the 19th century. For instance, in the jurisprudence of the American courts of the early 19th-century, the \"consolato\" principle was universally applied in cases not covered by treaties. On the other hand, the US government made it a steadfast practice to enshrine the \"free ship, free goods\" principle in the treaties of amity and commerce it concluded with other countries (starting with the 1778 one with France and the 1782 one with the Dutch Republic).\n\nIn other words, the American view (following the British practice) was that at that time \"consolato\" was customary international law, which, however, could be superseded by treaty law on a bilateral basis. The US, however, earnestly strove for the substitution of \"consolato\" by \"free ship\" in customary law also.\n\nThat state of affairs came about when Britain finally gave up its resistance to the principles, first formulated by Empress Catherine in 1780, and acquiesced in the 1856 Paris Declaration Respecting Maritime Law, which enshrined \"free ship makes free goods\" and rejecting \"enemy ship makes enemy goods.\" The Declaration was signed by the major powers (except the US) and it was soon adhered to by most other powers. The new rule (a combination of the \"best\" parts of \"Consolato\" and \"free ship\") became that a \"neutral flag covers enemy's goods (except contraband); neutral goods are not liable to seizure under the enemy's flag.\"\n\nIn the 20th century, the new principle became part of the broader body of laws of the sea currently embodied in the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (1982), as Woodrow Wilson advocated in Point 2 of his Fourteen Points (see Freedom of the seas). The US has not ratified the 1982 treaty, but it is a party to the preceding 1958 Convention on the High Seas. As the reason for nonratification is not related to the principle of freedom of navigation, which the US now considers to be part of customary international law, it does not imply that the US does not consider itself bound by the principle.\n\nThe United States Freedom of Navigation (FON) program challenges territorial claims on the world's oceans and airspace. The position of the United States is that all nations must obey the international law of the sea, as codified in the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. The U.S. Department of State writes: \n\nThe American position is somewhat complicated by the fact that the U.S. is not a signatory to UNCLOS.\n\nU.S. armed forces have conducted FON operations in areas claimed by other countries but considered by the U.S. to be international waters, such as naval operations in the Gulf of Sidra in the 1980s; as well as in strategically important straits (such as Gibraltar, Hormuz, and Malacca). \n\nOne of the notable operations conducted as innocent passage and part of Freedom of Navigation program was performed by USS \"Yorktown\", during which, on February 12, 1988 she was \"nudged\" by Soviet frigate \"Bezzavetnyy\" in an attempt to divert the vessel out of Soviet territorial waters.\n\nBeginning in October 2015, as part of the U.S. FON Operations (FONOP) program, U.S. Navy ships have patrolled near the artificial islands China has created in the disputed Spratly archipelago to underscore the U.S.'s position that the artificial islands constructed by China are located in international waters. The guided-missile destroyer USS \"Lassen\" sailed within 12 nautical miles of reclaimed-land islands (the so-called \"Great Wall of Sand\") in October 2015. Two other U.S. ships have followed: the USS \"Wilbur Curtis\" sailed within 12 nautical miles of Triton Island in the Paracel Islands in January 2016, and the USS \"William P. Lawrence\" came within 12 nautical miles of Fiery Cross Reef in the Spratly Islands in May 2016.\n\nIn spring 2017, the Trump administration stopped FON in the South China Sea hoping China might increase its pressure on North Korea that is launching missile tests. \nIn summer 2017, it restarted FON Operations.\n\nIn May 2017, Japan sent its Izumo helicopter carrier on a three-month tour of the South China Sea, marking Japan’s biggest foray into the region since the Second World War. \n\nIn April 2018, three Australian naval vessels transited the South China Sea towards Vietnam and, along the way, met a ‘robust’ challenge from the Chinese navy.\n\nAt the June 2018 Shangri-La Dialogue, ministers from France and the UK jointly announced that their ships would sail through the South China Sea to continue to uphold the collective right to freedom of navigation. The announcement came after the UK and France announced separately in July 2017 and May 2018 respectively that they would increase their involvement in the South China Sea.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2396604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2396604", "title": "Grant-in-aid", "text": "Grant-in-aid\n\nA grant-in-aid is money coming from central government for a specific project. This kind of funding is usually used when the government and parliament have decided that the recipient should be publicly funded but operate with reasonable independence from the state.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, most bodies in receipt of grants-in-aid are non-departmental public bodies.\n\nA grant-in-aid is funds allocated by one level of government to another level of government to be used for specific purposes. Such funds are usually accompanied by requirements and standards set by the governing body for how they are to be spent. An example of this would be how the United States Congress required states to raise the drinking age for alcohol from 18 to 21 in order for the individual states to continue to qualify for federal funds for interstate highways located within each state.\n\n"}
{"id": "51215922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51215922", "title": "Hess v. Indiana", "text": "Hess v. Indiana\n\nHess v. Indiana, 414 U.S. 105 (1973), was a United States Supreme Court case involving the First Amendment which reaffirmed and clarified the imminent lawless action test first articulated in \"Brandenburg v. Ohio\". \"\"Hess\" continues to be cited by the courts to protect speech that threatens future lawless action.\" \n\nThe case involved an antiwar protest on the campus of Indiana University Bloomington. Between 100 and 150 protesters were in the streets. The sheriff and his deputies then proceeded to clear the streets of the protestors. As the sheriff was passing Gregory Hess, one of the members of the crowd, Hess uttered, \"We'll take the fucking street later\" or \"We'll take the fucking street again.\" Hess was convicted in Indiana state court of disorderly conduct.\n\nThe Supreme Court reversed Hess's conviction because the statement at worst \"amounted to nothing more than advocacy of illegal action at some indefinite future time. This is not sufficient to permit the State to punish Hess' speech.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "36946381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36946381", "title": "High Andean Flamingos Memorandum of Understanding", "text": "High Andean Flamingos Memorandum of Understanding\n\nThe Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) on the Conservation of High Andean Flamingos and their Habitats is a multilateral environmental memorandum of understanding that was concluded under the auspices of the Convention on Migratory Species of Wild Animals (CMS), also known as the Bonn Convention. The MoU came into effect on 4 December 2008 and provides protection for the populations of high Andean flamingos, which have been subject to drastic reduction and fragmentation of their habitats and have a delicate state of conservation. The MoU covers four range states (Argentina, Bolivia, Chile and Peru). As of August 2012, three range states have signed the MoU.\n\nTo implement the decision of the Fifth Conference of the Parties of CMS to list the high Andean flamingo (\"Phoenicopterus andinus\" and \"P. jamesi\") on Appendix I of the Convention due to its poor state of conservation caused by a drastic reduction and fragmentation of their habitats, an Article IV agreement was concluded and entered into effect on 4 December 2008, following the signature by the third range state.\n\nSignatories to the High Andean Flamingos MoU:\n\nIn addition, the CMS Secretariat also signed the MoU.\n\nTaking into consideration that the major threats that cause the population of the high Andean flamingo are amongst others the fragility of the high Andean wetlands and the impact caused by human activities such as fresh water contamination caused by the mining industry, the overexploitation of ground water, water treatment projects, the modification of natural river courses for agricultural purposes, unregulated tourism, extraction of eggs and destruction of colonies as well as inadequate management of grazing on the flood plains of the high Andean steppes, the MoU aims to improve the conservation status of the species and their habitats through coordinated and concerted actions across the range states.\n\nThe MoU protects two species of Andean flamingos, \"Phoenicopterus andinus\" and \"Phoenicopterus jamesi\", both listed on Appendix I of the CMS Convention.\n\nAll signatories agree to undertake steps to conserve the high Andean flamingo throughout their range. To this end they will:\n\nThe MoU took effect immediately after the third signatory (4 December 2008) and will remain in effect indefinitely subject to the right of any signatory to terminate its participation by providing one year’s written notice to all other signatories.\n\nThe secretariat shall convene regular meetings of signatories to review the population status of the high Andean flamingos and assess the implementation of the MoU.\n\nThe CMS Secretariat – located in Bonn, Germany – acts as the secretariat to the MoU. The main tasks of the secretariat are organizing the meeting of signatories and providing overview reports of progress made to implement the MoU and its action plan, compiled on the basis of all information available. Furthermore, the secretariat also acts as the depositary.\n\nAn action plan provides a road map to guide the implementation of conservation actions for the high Andean flamingo in the range states and will be prepared by the signatories, supported by the CMS Secretariat. It will include measures to promote co-ordination of conservation actions, international cooperation, improving the knowledge on the species, management, research, awareness and the exchange of information among the signatories.\n\nIn 2011, CMS and Centro de Estudios en Biología Teórica y Aplicada (BIOTA – Center for Studies in Theoretical and Applied Biology) in Bolivia agreed to cooperate on a large project to monitor the two species of high Andean flamingos (\"Phonicopterus andinus\" and \"Phonicopterus jamesi\") within the framework of the MoU and with funding through the CMS Small Grants Programme (SGP). The objective was to monitor population and their breeding colonies in order to know the current conservation status of these populations and establish the trends of the breeding colonies. Furthermore, the data obtained will be the basis for developing a programme to monitor and protect the species in the future. Monitoring activities started in August 2011 to study reproduction and active nesting sites, count the flamingo’s breeding colonies in priority sites, and identify the principal threats to their conservation, and ended on 31 May 2012.\n\nThe monitoring data obtained suggest breeding success of the high Andean flamingos in Bolivia and Argentina in 2011-2012. Some of the results of the monitoring programme were the following:\n\n"}
{"id": "1836538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1836538", "title": "Japan–Korea Treaty of 1876", "text": "Japan–Korea Treaty of 1876\n\nThe Japan–Korea Treaty of 1876, also known as the Japan-Korea Treaty of Amity in Japanese or Treaty of Ganghwa Island in Korean, was made between representatives of the Empire of Japan and the Korean Kingdom of Joseon in 1876. Negotiations were concluded on February 26, 1876.\n\nIn January 1864, King Cheoljong died without an heir and Gojong ascended the throne at the age of 12. However, King Gojong was too young and the new king's father, Yi Ha-ŭng, became the Daewongun or lord of the great court, and ruled Korea in his son's name. Originally the term Daewongun referred to any person who was not actually the king but whose son took the throne. The Daewongun initiated reforms to strengthen the monarchy at the expense of the \"yangban\" class.\n\nEven before the nineteenth century, the Koreans had only maintained diplomatic relations with its suzerain, China, and with neighboring Japan. Foreign trade was mainly limited to China, conducted at designated locations along the Korean-Manchurian border and with Japan, through the Waegwan in Pusan. By the mid-nineteenth century Westerners had come to refer to Korea as the \"Hermit Kingdom\". The Daewongun was determined to continue Korea's traditional isolationist policy and to purge the kingdom of any foreign ideas that had infiltrated into the nation. The disastrous events occurring in China, including the First (1840–1842) and Second Opium wars (18561860), reinforced his determination to separate Korea from the rest of the world.\n\nFrom the early to mid-nineteenth century, Western vessels began to make frequent appearances in Korean waters, surveying sea routes and seeking trade. The Korean government was extremely wary, referred to these vessels as \"strange-looking ships.\" Several incidents took place. In June 1832, a ship from the British India Company, the \"Lord Amherst\", appeared off the coast of Hwanghae Province seeking trade. In June 1845 another British warship, , surveyed the coast of Cheju-do and Chŏlla province, the following month the Korean government filed a protest with British authorities in Guangzhou through the Chinese government. In June 1846, three French warships dropped anchor off the coast of Chungcheong Province and conveyed a letter protesting persecution of Catholics in the country. In April 1854, two armed Russian vessels sailed along the eastern coast of Hamgyong Province, causing some deaths and injuries among the Koreans they encountered. Prompting the Korean government to issue a ban forbidding the people of the province from having any contact with foreign vessels. In January and July 1866, ships manned by the German adventurer Ernst J. Oppert appeared off the coast of Chungcheong Province, seeking trade. In August 1866, an American merchant ship, the \"General Sherman\", appeared off the coast of Pyongan Province, steaming along the Taedong River to the provincial capital of Pyongyang, and asked permission to trade. Local officials refused to enter into trade talks and demanded the ship's departure. A Korean official was then taken hostage aboard the ship, and its crew members fired guns at enraged Korean officials and civilians on the shore. The crew then came ashore, plundered the town, and killed seven Koreans. The governor of the province, Pak Kyu-su, ordered his forces to destroy the ship, and in the event the General Sherman ran aground on a sandbar and Korean forces burned the ship and killed the ship's entire crew of 23. In 1866 after the execution of several of its Catholic missionaries and Korean Catholics, the French launched a punitive expedition against Korea. Five years later, in 1871, the Americans also launched an expedition to Korea. Despite this, the Koreans continued to adhere to isolationism and refused to negotiate to open up the country.\n\nDuring the Edo period, Japan's relations and trade with Korea were conducted through intermediaries with the Sō family in Tsushima. A Japanese outpost, called the \"waegwan\", was allowed to be maintained in Tongnae near Pusan. The traders were confined to the outpost and no Japanese were allowed to travel to the Korean capital at Seoul. In the aftermath of the Meiji restoration, during late 1868, a member of the Sō daimyō informed the Korean authorities that a new government had been established and an envoy would be sent from Japan. In 1869 the envoy from the Meiji government arrived in Korea carrying a letter requesting to establish a goodwill mission between the two countries; the letter contained the seal of the Meiji government rather than the seals authorized by the Korean Court for the Sō family to use. It also used the character \"ko\" (皇) rather than \"taikun\" (大君) to refer to the Japanese emperor. The Koreans only used this character to refer to the Chinese emperor and to the Koreans it implied ceremonial superiority to the Korean monarch which would make the Korean monarch a vassal or subject of the Japanese ruler. The Japanese were however just reacting to their domestic political situation where the Shogun had been replaced by the emperor. The Koreans remained in the sinocentric world where China was at the centre of interstate relations and as a result refused to receive the envoy. The bureau of foreign affairs wanted to change these arrangements to one based on modern state-to-state relations.\n\nIn Korea, Heungseon Daewongun, who instituted a policy of closing doors to European powers, was forced into retirement by his son King Gojong and Gojong's wife, Queen Min. France and the United States had already made several unsuccessful attempts to begin commerce with the Joseon dynasty during Heungseon Daewongun's era. However, after he was removed from power, many new officials who supported the idea of opening commerce with foreigners took power. While there was political instability, Japan developed a plan to open and exert influence on Korea before a European power could. In 1875, their plan was put into action: the \"Un'yō\", a small Japanese warship under the command of Inoue Yoshika, was dispatched to present a show of force and survey coastal waters without Korean permission.\n\nOn September 20, the ship reached Ganghwa Island, which had been a site of violent confrontations between Korean forces and foreign forces in the previous decade. In 1866, the island was briefly occupied by the French, and also in 1871 subject to American intervention. The memories of those confrontations were very fresh, and there was little question that the Korean garrison would shoot at any approaching foreign ship. Nonetheless, Commander Inoue ordered a small boat launched – allegedly in search of drinkable water. The Korean forts opened fire. The \"Un'yō\" brought its superior firepower to bear and silenced the Korean guns. Then it attacked another Korean fort on Yeongjong Island and withdrew back to Japan.\n\nJapan employed gunboat diplomacy to press Korea to sign this unequal treaty. The pact opened up Korea, as Commodore Matthew Perry's fleet of Black Ships had opened up Japan in 1853. According to the treaty, it ended Joseon's status as a tributary state of the Qing dynasty and opened three ports to Japanese trade. The Treaty also granted the Japanese people many of the same rights in Korea that Westerners enjoyed in Japan, such as extraterritoriality.\n\nThe chief treaty negotiators were Kuroda Kiyotaka, Director of the Hokkaidō Colonization Office, and Shin Heon, General/Minister of Joseon-dynasty Korea.\n\nThe articles of the treaty were as follows:\n\nThe following year saw a Japanese fleet led by Special Envoy Kuroda Kiyotaka coming over to Joseon, demanding an apology from the Korean government and a commercial treaty between the two nations. The Korean government decided to accept the demand, in hope of importing some technologies to defend the country from any future invasions.\n\nHowever, the treaty would eventually turn out to be the first of many unequal treaties signed by Korea; It gave extraterritorial rights to Japanese citizens in Korea, and forced the Korean government to open 3 ports to Japan, specifically Busan, Incheon and Wonsan. With the signing of its first unequal treaty, Korea became vulnerable to the influence of imperialistic powers; and later the treaty led Korea to be annexed by Japan.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52870191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52870191", "title": "K.K. Luthra Memorial Moot Court", "text": "K.K. Luthra Memorial Moot Court\n\nThe K.K. Luthra Memorial Moot Court was started in 2005 in the memory of late Senior Advocate Mr. K.K. Luthra. This is the only international criminal law moot court held in India and has seen participation from top law colleges in India and abroad. It is held every year in January at the Campus Law Centre in Delhi University.\n\nThe competition is named after late Senior Advocate Mr. K.K. Luthra who was an eminent criminal lawyer and appeared in various trial courts, High Courts and the Supreme Court of India in a variety of matters during his legal career spanning 49 years. He was designated as a Senior Advocate of the Delhi High Court in 1984. During his long tenure at the Bar, he was the lead defence counsel in many important cases like the Baroda Dynamite Case, the L.N. Mishra murder case, Classik Computers Case, St. Kitts Case, the Coomar Narain Espionage Case and in the post-Emergency Shah Commission.\n\nOnly one team is allowed to register from any college or law school. The members of the team should be undergraduate law students. The team should comprise two speakers or two speakers and a researcher.\n\nThe competition is held in two rounds. The first is a qualification round where the teams are required to submit a memorial for the applicant and the respondent. The teams that score seven more points out of a total of twenty points are invited to participate in the main moot court competition held at the Campus Law Centre in Delhi University. In 2017, a total of sixty teams qualified to participate in the moot court competition.\n\nDuring the moot court, the teams are given 30 minutes in the preliminary rounds to present oral arguments before the judges, both for the applicant and the respondent. The teams that win two preliminary rounds qualify for the octafinal rounds which is then succeeded by quarterfinal, semifinal and final rounds. The teams get 40 minutes for their presentations in the semifinal and final rounds. The participants are judged on their ability to correlate the facts of the alleged crime with the laws that it has been booked under and to use different authorities and precedents to build and support one's arguments. In addition to these skills, the participants also get points for the memorial they submitted and for their oration and advocacy skills.\n\nThe idea behind 2017's moot court problem was to make participants argue whether or not the actions and speech of a particular political figure qualified as seditious and could be punishable with the death penalty. It is set in a fictional democratic country Camelot which became independent in 1947 and adopted a federal constitution. A case of sedition was brought against a popular political leader of Camelot, Ms. Elizabeth Bennet, by the state government of Erehwon, the capital of Camelot. The teams had to argue the appeal which was pending before the Supreme Court of Camelot for final hearing.\n\nThe 2017 K.K. Luthra Memorial Moot Court competition was won by George Washington University, USA, while the Rajiv Gandhi National University of Law, Patiala, Punjab, bagged the second prize.\n\nThe inaugural address was delivered by Supreme Court judge, Justice Amitava Roy and the valedictory address was given by Supreme Court judge, Justice Arjan Kumar Sikri.\n\n"}
{"id": "47389477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47389477", "title": "List of law schools in Texas", "text": "List of law schools in Texas\n\nThis is a list of law schools in Texas.\n\n"}
{"id": "53086233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53086233", "title": "List of monarchies by order of succession", "text": "List of monarchies by order of succession\n\nThis is a list of current monarchies by order of succession (Primogeniture and Elective).\n"}
{"id": "4478439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4478439", "title": "Manslaughter in English law", "text": "Manslaughter in English law\n\nIn the English law of homicide, manslaughter is a less serious offence than murder, the differential being between levels of fault based on the \"mens rea\" (Latin for \"guilty mind\") or by reason of a partial defence. In England and Wales, the usual practice is to prefer a charge of murder, with the judge or defence able to introduce manslaughter as an option (see lesser included offence). The jury then decides whether the defendant is guilty or not guilty of either murder or manslaughter. On conviction for manslaughter, sentencing is at the judge's discretion, whereas a sentence of life imprisonment is mandatory on conviction for murder. Manslaughter may be either \"voluntary\" or \"involuntary\", depending on whether the accused has the required \"mens rea\" for murder.\n\n\"Voluntary manslaughter\" occurs when the defendant kills with \"mens rea\" (an intention to kill or cause grievous bodily harm), but one of those partial defences which reduce murder to manslaughter applies (these consist of mitigating circumstances which reduce the defendant's culpability). The original mitigating factors were provocation and chance medley which existed at common law, but the former has been abolished by statute, the latter has been held no longer to exist and new defences have been created by statute.\n\nThe Homicide Act 1957 now provides two defences which may be raised to allow the court to find the accused guilty of voluntary manslaughter: diminished responsibility and suicide pact. The Coroners and Justice Act 2009 creates the defence of \"loss of control\".\n\nUnder section 2 of the Homicide Act 1957 there are three requirements for the defendant to raise the defence of diminished responsibility. The defendant must have suffered from an abnormality of mind at the time of the killing caused by one of the causes specified by the Act which substantially impaired the defendant’s mental responsibility for the killing. Under section 2(2) of the Act it is for the defendant to prove he suffered from such a condition on the balance of probabilities.\n\nAn abnormality of mind has been defined by Lord Parker CJ \"as state of mind so different from that of ordinary human beings that the reasonable man would term it abnormal\". In deciding whether this state of mind exists the jury should consider medical evidence, but also all other evidence including acts and statements of the accused and his demeanour. The jury does not have to accept the medical evidence if other material conflicts with and outweighs it.\n\nThe Homicide Act specifies three causes one of which must cause the abnormality; they are a condition of arrested or retarded development of mind, any inherent cause or a disease or injury. Whether the abnormality is caused by one of the specified causes is a matter for medical evidence alone. Alcoholism is capable of being an abnormality of mind even if there is no physical damage to the brain.\n\nWhether the abnormality substantially impaired the defendant’s mental responsibility for the killing is a question of degree for the jury. In \"R v Lloyd\" the Court of Appeal held that the lack of control must simply be ‘more than trivial’.\n\nPremenstrual tension (PMT) has been accepted as a mitigating factor in several high profile cases. In 1980, Sandie Smith was convicted of manslaughter for stabbing a barmaid. Dr. Katharina Dalton who examined Smith before the trial diagnosed her with severe PMS. This diagnosis was accepted as a cause of diminished responsibility. Smith was sentenced to three years probation despite previous convictions for violent behavior.\n\nSee sections 54 and 55 of the Coroners and Justice Act 2009.\n\nSection 4(1) of the Homicide Act 1957 introduced the defence of suicide pact. Parliament's intention was to show some compassion for those who had been involved in a suicide pact but failed to die. Section 4(3) defines a suicide pact as \"a common agreement between two or more persons having for its object the death of all of them, whether or not each is to take his own life\". Further the accused must have had a \"settled intention of dying in pursuance of the pact\" to avoid the accused entering into a supposed pact with the real intention of committing murder. The Law Commission has proposed abolishing the defence with deserving cases falling within diminished responsibility, but feels it should be retained pending a review of a new partial defence of mercy killings.\n\nInvoluntary manslaughter arises where the accused did not intend to cause death or serious injury but caused the death of another through recklessness or criminal negligence. For these purposes, recklessness is defined as a blatant disregard for the dangers of a particular situation. An example of this would be dropping a brick off a bridge, landing on a person's head, killing him. Since the intent is not to kill the victim, but simply to drop the brick, the \"mens rea\" required for murder does not exist because the act is not aimed at any one person. But if in dropping the brick, there is a good chance of injuring someone, the person who drops it will be reckless. This form of manslaughter is also termed \"unlawful act\" or \"constructive\" manslaughter.\n\nUnder English law, where a person owes a duty of care (either by statute or by the neighbour principle) and is negligent to such a degree that consequently the law regards it as a crime (namely the person has been grossly negligent) and that person causes the victim to die, she may be liable for gross negligence manslaughter. The defendants in such cases are often people carrying out jobs that require special skills or care, such as doctors, teachers, police or prison officers, or electricians, who fail to meet the standard which could be expected from a reasonable person of the same profession. In \"R v Bateman\" the Court of Criminal Appeal held that gross negligence manslaughter involved the following elements:\nThe House of Lords in \"Seymour\" sought to identify the \"mens rea\" for \"motor manslaughter\" (negligently causing death when driving a motor vehicle). Reference was made to \"R v Caldwell\" and \"R v Lawrence\" which held that a person was reckless if:\nThe conclusion was that for motor manslaughter (and, by implication, for all cases of gross negligence), it was more appropriate to adopt this definition of recklessness. Consequently, if the defendant created an obvious and serious risk of causing physical injury to someone, there could be liability whether there was simple inadvertence or conscious risk-taking. It was no longer a defence to argue that the negligence had not been gross.\n\nIn \"Adomako\" an anaesthetist failed to notice that a tube had become disconnected from the ventilator and the patient died. Lord Mackay disapproved Seymour and held that the Bateman test of gross negligence was the appropriate test in manslaughter cases involving a breach of duty, allowing the jury to consider the accused's conduct in all the surrounding circumstances, and to convict only if the negligence was very serious. Individuals have a duty to act in the following situations:\n\nIn \"Attorney-General’s Reference (No 2 of 1999)\", a case on corporate manslaughter that arose out of the Southall rail crash, the Court of Appeal decided the defendant's subjective state of mind (i.e. whether there was conscious risk-taking) is irrelevant and, therefore, so is the question of recklessness, leaving the objective test as the only test for liability. Rose LJ, said:\n\nAlthough there may be cases where the defendant’s state of mind is relevant to the jury’s consideration when assessing the grossness and criminality of his conduct, evidence of his state of mind is not a pre-requisite to a conviction for manslaughter by gross negligence. The Adomako test is objective, but a defendant who is reckless as defined in Stone may well be the more readily found to be grossly negligent to a criminal degree.\nIn our judgment unless an identified individual’s conduct, characterisable as gross criminal negligence, can be attributed to the company, the company is not, in the present state of the common law, liable for manslaughter.\n\nCivil negligence rules are not apt to confer criminal liability…the identification principle remains the only basis in common law for corporate liability for gross negligence manslaughter. (see imputation). This was only persuasive authority for the law of manslaughter at large, but \"R v DPP, ex p Jones\" which said that the test of negligent manslaughter is objective, confirmed \"Attorney General’s Reference (No 2 of 1999)\" as a correct general statement of law.\n\nBecause of a reluctance by juries to convict when the charge was manslaughter, a statutory offence of \"causing death by dangerous driving\" was introduced. Following the Road Traffic Law Review Committee (1988), the Road Traffic Act 1991 abandoned recklessness in favour of the pre-statutory objective test of \"dangerousness\", i.e. did the driving fall far below the standard of the competent and careful driver. The Committee also recommended that manslaughter should be an optional charge for the more serious driving cases. There is the possibility of charging an aggravated taking without consent for less seriously dangerous driving where death results. An equivalent, in many American states, to motor manslaughter, is vehicular homicide. An equivalent to causing death by dangerous driving in Canada under the Criminal Code is Causing death by criminal negligence.\n\nUnder English law, according to \"R v Creamer\", a person is guilty of involuntary manslaughter when he or she intends an unlawful act that is likely to do harm to the person, and death results which was neither foreseen nor intended. The name for this crime is 'manslaughter by an unlawful and dangerous act' (MUDA). The term 'constructive manslaughter' is commonly and correctly used as a synonym. Although the accused did not intend to cause serious harm or foresee the risk of doing so, and although an objective observer would not necessarily have predicted that serious harm would result, the accused's responsibility for causing death is \"constructed\" from the fault in committing what might have been a minor criminal act.\n\nThe case of \"R v Goodfellow\" laid out a four-part requirement which if satisfied could lead to liability for MUDA. The person's action must:\n\nA number of authorities clarify the test from \"R v Goodfellow\":\n\nIn \"R v Dawson\", a petrol station attendant with a weak heart died of heart failure when the appellant attempted a robbery of the station. In judging whether this act was sufficiently \"dangerous\", the Court of Appeal applied a test based on the \"sober and reasonable\" bystander who could be assumed to know that the use of a replica gun was likely to terrify people and so be a danger to those with a weak heart. Note the aggravated form of criminal damage with intent to endanger life under section 1(2) of the Criminal Damage Act 1971 which could provide the unlawful act if the damage actually causes death. But \"R v Carey, C and F\" limits the scope of unlawful act manslaughter. An argument became violent and the first defendant punched and kicked one victim. The second defendant assaulted the deceased by pulling her hair back and punching her in the face. The third defendant assaulted another. The deceased was one of the first to run away, after which she felt faint, and later died of a heart condition (ventricular fibrillation or dysrhythmia) which was congenital but which had not been diagnosed before her death. The unlawful act was said to be the affray and the judge held that it was legitimate to aggregate the violence by the other defendants in order to decide whether the affray had subjected the deceased to the threat of at least some physical harm, and so had been a cause of death. On appeal, it was inappropriate to hold the defendants liable for the death. There must be an unlawful act that was dangerous in the sense that sober and reasonable persons would recognise that the act was such as to subject Y to the risk of physical harm. In turn, that act must cause the death. When deciding whether an act is dangerous, knowledge of the victim's characteristics may be relevant. In this case, no reasonable person would have been aware of the victim's heart condition which distinguishes this case from \"Dawson\", and from \"R v Watson\" in which the victim's approximate age (he was 87 years old) and frail state would have been obvious to a reasonable person. A sober and reasonable person would not have foreseen that an apparently healthy person of 15 years would suffer shock as a result of it. The court held that the deceased's death was not caused by injuries that were a foreseeable result of the affray. The assault by the second defendant was an unlawful act causing death. The other two defendants could have been convicted by virtue of common purpose given that the death was an accidental departure from the general plan of the affray. But the Crown did not elect to present the case in this way, but pleaded the case as a public order group activity. The result would be that if anyone died in a general disturbance amounting to an affray, all those who participated could be convicted of manslaughter which would be against public policy. Deaths in a general disturbance are too remote to be caused by all participants.\n\nThus, a punch which causes a person to fall will almost inevitably satisfy the test of dangerousness, and where the victim falls and suffers a fatal head injury the accused is guilty of manslaughter. It is foreseeable that the victim is at risk of suffering some physical harm (albeit not serious harm) from such a punch and that is sufficient. Physical harm includes shock. The reason why the death resulting from the attempted robbery of the 60-year-old petrol station attendant was not manslaughter was that the attempted robbery was not dangerous in the relevant sense. It was not foreseeable that an apparently healthy 60-year-old man would suffer shock and a heart attack as a result of such an attempted robbery. But the jury properly found that it was foreseeable that an obviously frail and very old man was at risk of suffering shock leading to a heart attack as a result of a burglary committed at his home late at night.\n\nIn \"R v Charles James Brown\", following the break-up of his relationship with his girlfriend, at about 3 pm., the defendant sent a text message to his mother saying that he did not want to live any more. He then drove his car against the flow of traffic along the hard shoulder of the A1(M) at high speed, before moving into the carriageway, still accelerating and straddling the centre line. He then crashed, head on, into an oncoming car, killing the passenger and injuring many others in the resulting consequential crashes. A sentence of 10 years' detention in a young offender institution was upheld because although the intentional focus might have been only on suicide, the defendant must have known from the way he was driving that he would kill or injure at least one other person (thus enforcing an objective standard on the defendant).\n\nThe law on those who supply the (post) deceased with drugs had been uncertain until the case of \"R v Kennedy\". The defendant supplied heroin to a drug user that asked for something to help them sleep. An hour after administering the drug the victim died. Kennedy was found guilty of manslaughter and appealed on the grounds that there must be an unlawful act which caused the victim's death. In this case the defendant set up the drug and supplied it but did not administer it, therefore it was an act of the victim himself that caused his own death. Kennedy was acquitted of manslaughter. Prior to this House of Lords ruling, the lower courts (in particular the Court of Appeal) struggled to strike a balance between those suppliers considered to have administered the drug (in the subsequent cases, heroin) to the victim themselves, and those suppliers who simply \"supply\" the drug for the victim to then voluntarily administer themselves.\n\nInfanticide is a partial defence to manslaughter under the Infanticide Act 1938 (as amended by section 57 the Coroners and Justice Act 2009 to confirm the decision in \"R v Gore\") and reduces the manslaughter to the crime of infanticide.\n\nManslaughter is an indictable-only offence.\n\nA person guilty of manslaughter is liable to imprisonment for life or for any shorter term.\n\nFor case law on sentencing see the Crown Prosecution Service sentencing manual:\n\nIn \"R v Creamer\", the court said obiter that attempted manslaughter is not an offence known to law.\n\nProvocation in English law was abolished on 4 October 2010 by section 56(1) of the Coroners and Justice Act 2009, but replaced by the similar partial defence of \"loss of control\".\n\nAt common law, acts of provocation had to be actual violence towards the defendant; words could not amount to provocation. The two exceptions to this rule were a husband discovering his wife committing adultery and a father finding someone buggering his son. There were two limbs to the defence, first the defendant had to have actually been provoked, and second the provocation had to be such as would have made the reasonable man act as the defendant did. The Homicide Act 1957 removed all limits on what could amount to provocation and allowed it to include provocation from someone other than the victim, and aimed at someone other than the accused. Further the defence was not defeated by the fact that the defendant induced the provocation. Section 56 of the Coroners and Justice Act 2009 states that the common law defence of provocation is abolished and replaced by sections 54 and 55; and that section 3 of the Homicide Act 1957 is also abolished and replaced with sections 54 and 55.\n\nThis was a question of fact for the jury. The loss of control had to be sudden and temporary, however it could be the result of slow burn; the final straw needed not be very bad as long as it led to an actual sudden and temporary loss of control. A delay between the act of provocation and the killing did not always defeat the defence, but often would.\n\nUnder section 3 of the Homicide Act 1957 the second question to be answered by the jury in order for the defence to succeed was ‘whether the provocation was enough to make a reasonable man act as [the defendant] did?’. The reasonable man for the purposes of this test had the same sex and age as the defendant and shared such characteristics as affect the gravity of the provocation to the defendant, but characteristics irrelevant to the provocation such as unrelated mental disorders were not given to the reasonable man. Finally, the reasonable man always had reasonable powers of self-control and was never intoxicated.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8032412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8032412", "title": "Mauritanian constitutional referendum, 2006", "text": "Mauritanian constitutional referendum, 2006\n\nA constitutional referendum was held in Mauritania on June 25, 2006 and approved by nearly 97% of voters. Following the August 2005 ouster of long-time president Maaouya Ould Sid'Ahmed Taya, the new transitional military regime called the referendum on a new constitution, which limits presidents to two five-year terms; previously presidential terms were six years and there was no limit on re-election. The new constitution also establishes a maximum age limit of 75 for presidential candidates.\n"}
{"id": "30648906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30648906", "title": "Medieval Roman law", "text": "Medieval Roman law\n\nMedieval Roman law is the continuation and development of ancient Roman law that developed in the European Late Middle Ages. Based on the ancient text of Roman law, the \"Corpus iuris civilis\", it added many new concepts, and formed the basis of the later civil law systems that prevail in the vast majority of countries. Some exceptions are, for example, common law countries of the English-speaking world.\n\nAlthough some legal systems in southern Europe in the Early Middle Ages, such as the Visigothic Code, retained some features of ancient Roman law, the main texts of Roman law were little known until the rediscovery of the \"Digest\" in Italy in the late 11th century. It was soon apparent that the \"Digest\" was a massive intellectual achievement and that the assimilation of its contents would require much time and study. The first European university, the University of Bologna, was set up in large part with the aim of studying it.\n\nThe ancient Roman law texts were not very explicit about matters of principle, and the commentators found it necessary to develop the scholastic method of comparing potentially conflicting texts and inferring principles that would explain the apparent contradictions. The commentators of the 12th and early 13th centuries, called glossators, such as Azo of Bologna and Accursius, produced a large-scale harmonization and commentary on the texts. They developed new concepts by reflecting on different related texts, such as the concept of half-proof in the law of evidence. Many of these glosses or interpretations, were compiled into one text around 1220 by the famous glossator Franciscus Accursius. This text was known as the Glossa ordinaria and was the staple of the most important commentaries made by the glossators.\n\nInitially the rediscovered Roman law was not the law of any particular country or institution, but as lawyers trained in the concepts of Roman law came to dominate the legal profession, Roman law came to have an immense effect on law as actually practiced. For example, torture was reintroduced into Europe as a means of acquiring evidence, usually when there was half-proof or more against a defendant but not yet sufficient proof for conviction.\n\nEnglish law incorporated a substantial amount of Roman concepts through the works of Glanvill and Bracton. But it adopted the non-Roman jury system as the main form of evidence evaluation, thus remaining less influenced by Roman law than continental systems. However, some English courts, such as the Court of Admiralty, operated on Roman law principles.\n\nCanon law, the law of the Roman Catholic Church which governed such matters as marriage, developed in parallel with medieval Roman law and incorporated many of its concepts.\n\nThe postglossators of the 14th century, such as Bartolus de Saxoferato and Baldus de Ubaldis, developed a more mature and deeper legal theory, less closely tied to the ancient texts. That gave the law sufficient flexibility to incorporate new concepts. For example, the first printed book on insurance was the Roman law treatise \"On Insurance and Merchants' Bets\" by Pedro de Santarém (Santerna), written in 1488 and published in 1552.\n\nRoman law often acted (except in England) as a \"common law\" (ius commune) that filled the gap where local laws were silent, as well as supplying principles of interpretation for those laws in doubtful cases. In this way, Scots law was heavily influenced by Roman law from the 15th century.\n\nRoman law was in part incorporated in later codifications of continental law such as the Napoleonic Code and hence formed a core of their successors, the civil law systems of modern European and other countries.\n\nRoman law also had wide influence on Western political theory. Questions such as the scope and limits of government and the permissibility of tyrannicide were seen in legal terms and discussed by writers whose primary training was in law. These ideas formed the basic of modern constitutionalism, the idea that government should be bound by fixed legal norms.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "448063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=448063", "title": "Mexican Cession", "text": "Mexican Cession\n\nThe Mexican Cession is the region in the modern-day southwestern United States that Mexico ceded to the U.S. in the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo in 1848 after the Mexican–American War. This region had not been part of the areas east of the Rio Grande which had been claimed by the Republic of Texas, though the Texas annexation resolution two years earlier had not specified the southern and western boundary of the new State of Texas. The Mexican Cession (529,000 sq. miles) was the third largest acquisition of territory in US history. The largest was the Louisiana Purchase, with some 827,000 sq. miles (including land from fifteen present U.S. states and two Canadian provinces), followed by the acquisition of Alaska (about 586,000 sq. miles).\n\nMost of the area had been the Mexican territory of Alta California, while a southeastern strip on the Rio Grande had been part of Santa Fe de Nuevo Mexico, most of whose area and population were east of the Rio Grande on land that had been claimed by the Republic of Texas since 1835, but never controlled or even approached aside from the Texan Santa Fe Expedition. Mexico controlled the territory later known as the Mexican Cession, with considerable local autonomy punctuated by several revolts and few troops sent from central Mexico, in the period from 1821–22 after independence from Spain up through 1846 when U.S. military forces seized control of California and New Mexico on the outbreak of the Mexican–American War. The northern boundary of the 42nd parallel north was set by the Adams–Onís Treaty signed by the United States and Spain in 1821 and ratified by Mexico in 1831. The eastern boundary of the Mexican Cession was the Texas claim at the Rio Grande and extending north from the headwaters of the Jojo Rivera, not corresponding to Mexican territorial boundaries. The southern boundary was set by the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, which followed the Mexican boundaries between Alta California (to the north) and Baja California and Sonora (to the south). The United States paid Mexico $15 million dollars for the land which became known as the Mexican Cession.\n\nAlta California and Santa Fe de Nuevo Mexico were captured soon after the start of the war and the last resistance there was subdued in January 1847, but Mexico would not accept the loss of territory. Therefore, during 1847, troops from the United States invaded central Mexico and occupied the Mexican capital of Mexico City, but still no Mexican government was willing to ratify transfer of the northern territories to the U.S. It was uncertain whether any treaty could be reached. There was even an All of Mexico Movement proposing complete annexation of Mexico among Eastern Democrats, but opposed by Southerners like John C. Calhoun who wanted additional territory for their crops but not the large population of central Mexico.\n\nEventually Nicholas Trist forced the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, explicitly redefining the border between Mexico and the United States in early 1848 after President Polk had already attempted to recall him from Mexico as a failure. Although Mexico did not overtly cede any land under the treaty, the redefined border had the effect of transferring Alta California and Santa Fe de Nuevo Mexico to the control of the United States. Equally important, the new border also acknowledged Mexico's loss of Texas, both the core eastern portion and the western claims, neither of which had been formally recognized by Mexico until that time.\n\nThe U.S. Senate approved the treaty, rejecting amendments from both Jefferson Davis to also annex most of northeastern Mexico and Daniel Webster not to take even Alta California and Santa Fe de Nuevo Mexico. The United States also paid $15,000,000 ($482 million in 2016 dollars) for the land, and agreed to assume $3.25 million in debts to US citizens. While technically the territory was purchased by the United States, the $15 million payment was simply credited against Mexico's debt to the U.S. at that time.\n\nThe Mexican Cession as ordinarily understood (i.e. excluding lands claimed by Texas) amounted to , or 14.9% of the total area of the current United States. If the disputed western Texas claims are also included, that amounts to a total of . If all of Texas had been seized, since Mexico had not previously acknowledged the loss of any part of Texas, the total area ceded under this treaty comes to .\n\nConsidering the seizures, including all of Texas, Mexico lost 54% of its pre-1836 territory in the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo. For only fifteen years from 1821 (when Mexican independence was secured) and the Texan Revolt in 1836, the Mexican Cession (excluding Texas) formed approximately 42% of the country of Mexico; prior to that, it had been a part of the Spanish colony of New Spain for some three centuries. Beginning in the early seventeenth century, a chain of Roman Catholic missions and settlements extended into the New Mexico region, mostly following the course of the Rio Grande from the El Paso area to Santa Fe.\n\nSoon after the war started and long before negotiation of the new US-Mexico border, the question of slavery in the territories to be acquired polarized the Northern and Southern United States in the bitterest sectional conflict up to this time, which lasted for a deadlock of four years during which the Second Party System broke up, Mormon pioneers settled Utah, the California Gold Rush settled California, and New Mexico under a federal military U.S government turned back Texas's attempt to assert control over territory Texas claimed as far west as the Rio Grande. Eventually the Compromise of 1850 preserved the Union, but only for another decade. Proposals included:\n\n\n\nIt quickly became apparent that the Mexican Cession did not include a feasible route for a transcontinental railroad connecting to a southern port. The topography of the New Mexico Territory included mountains that naturally directed any railroad extending from the southern Pacific coast northward, to Kansas City, St. Louis, or Chicago. Southerners, anxious for the business such a railroad would bring (and hoping to establish a slave-state beachhead on the Pacific coast), agitated for the acquisition of railroad-friendly land at the expense of Mexico, thus bringing about the Gadsden Purchase of 1853.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4562104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4562104", "title": "Mullens v Federal Commissioner of Taxation", "text": "Mullens v Federal Commissioner of Taxation\n\nMullens v Federal Commissioner of Taxation, was a 1976 High Court of Australia tax case concerning arrangements where stockbrokers Mullens & Co accessed tax deductions for monies subscribed to a petroleum exploration company. The Australian Taxation Office held the scheme was tax avoidance, but the court found for the taxpayer.\n\nIn the taxonomy of tax schemes, this was of the kind where a wholly intentional tax benefit is swapped or traded between taxpayers, from someone who can't make full use of it to someone who can.\n\nThe principal significance of the case today is its part in judicial interpretation of the section 260 anti-avoidance provisions of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936.\n\nIn 1968 a company called Vam Limited proposed to explore for natural gas in fields in South Australia and in south-western Queensland. In August 1968 it formed a new company Vamgas NL whose sole business would be that exploration. As a petroleum exploration company, monies subscribed for shares in Vamgas would be tax deductible under section 77A of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 as it stood at that time.\n\nVamgas shares had a par value of $0.50 each and Vam itself took up 5 million part paid to $0.10 each. Another 5 million, to be fully paid, were offered by way of a prospectus; 3 million to Vam shareholders and 2 million reserved for clients of the underwriting stockbroker and certain other brokers (Mullens & Co was not one of them). The offer to the Vam shareholders was by way of non-renounceable rights, which meant they could take them up or let them lapse, but could not sell or transfer them to someone else.\n\nMr Close was chairman of the board at Vam. He and his family and friends were substantial shareholders in Vam. They wanted to have an interest in the Vamgas, but couldn't afford to pay for their full allotment of shares (about 433,800, worth $216,900), and/or didn't have enough other income to make use of the tax deductions to be had by subscribing. Mullens & Co stockbrokers knew about the offer (and had had other dealings with Vam) and was in the opposite situation, it had access to funds and had income which it could usefully offset with deductions, but had no particular interest in Vamgas. Close worked with Mullens on the following mutually beneficial arrangement.\n\nThe Vam shareholders created trusts under which they took up their Vamgas rights and paid for their new shares with money provided by Mullens. The shares were in the names of those various Vam shareholders, but as trustees, with Mullens (or associates) the beneficial owners. Mullens granted those shareholders options allowing them to buy the Vamgas shares, if they wished, for the issue price (i.e. what Mullens had paid), any time until 15 May 1969 (that being a few months after the issue). The benefits of this scheme were,\n\n\nIn effect the Vam shareholders had swapped their potential tax deductions for a combination of short-term finance and protection against the share price falling. It seems Mullens wasn't too concerned about the latter possibility, and indeed Vamgas did rise when it listed on the stock exchange.\n\nThe Vam shareholders exercised their options on 14 May 1969, the day before expiry, and paid Mullens the $0.50 per share strike price. They got the money by selling some of their shares (having risen in price) or by selling some new further rights which Vamgas had issued. (Vamgas made a one-for-one rights issue shortly after listing, and under the option conditions such rights belonged to the option holder, i.e. those Vam shareholders, not Mullens.)\n\nOne of the Vam shareholders, a Mrs Walser, had on 3 April 1969 sold (at a profit) the Vamgas shares she held in trust. This was, strictly speaking, before she exercised her option. Mullens was the selling broker and was obviously unconcerned by formalities of exercise dates, but it did cause Mr Bridges (a partner in Mullens) considerable embarrassment in the court (below) because it gave the impression Mrs Walser regarded the shares as hers to trade, and on that basis maybe the trust documents were a sham and she was really the owner. The latter was what the Australian Taxation Office contended.\n\nA second similar transaction took place in May 1969, this time between the Vam company itself and the Mullens group. Vam had to pay the $0.40 balance of its part-paid Vamgas shares, but it had enough of its own tax deductions that it didn't need those it would get from section 77A by subscribing money to Vamgas. So instead it negotiated with Mullens on the following further transaction.\n\nMullens and several associates on 23 May 1969 bought 1,250,000 of Vam's $0.10 part-paid Vamgas shares, for the paid-up value of $125,000. Mullens agreed to give Vam first refusal to buy the shares back, at market price. A few weeks later, on 17 June 1969, they did indeed sell them back to Vam for $0.50 each (with Mullens paying the stamp duty). This was just under the prevailing market price of $0.51.\n\nThe fact that the sale back to Vam was for exactly what Mullens had paid out seems to have been a happy coincidence, i.e. that the market price was exactly that amount at the time; the price later fell to $0.30.\n\nIt appears Vam gave up its potential tax benefit for no more than a three-week deferral of its payment on the Vamgas call. Such a small consideration might suggest there wasn't an active kind of market in trading such tax benefits.\n\nSeven partners of the Mullens stockbroking firm and four companies associated with them appealed to the Supreme Court of NSW against the tax assessments made by the Australian Taxation Office (ATO). By consent the eleven appeals were heard together and evidence given in each one was treated as evidence in each of the others.\n\nThe ATO argued that either the two Vam transactions above were shams, or that if they were real then they came under the section 260 anti-avoidance provisions of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936.\n\nA \"sham\" in this context would mean there was some different underlying arrangement between the parties, and the documents they made were never meant to be enforced (or worse, written or re-written after the fact). The actual arrangement the ATO posited was that Mullens had simply lent money.\n\nJustice Sheppard agreed with the ATO, noting in particular Mrs Walser's dealings, and decided for the ATO as submitted, but without ruling on which alternative was the case (sham or section 260).\n\nAll eleven people and companies appealed to the High Court. The initial appeal in the Supreme Court also concerned other transactions relating to share sales on capital versus income account were also decided, but they were not taken further and don't have a bearing on the Vam transactions and section 260. Mullens was chosen as symptomatic of those of other taxpayers associated with him as they all had the same facts and the result of all appeals was the same.\n\nThe High Court upheld the appeal and found for the taxpayer in a 2-1 decision, with Chief Justice Barwick and Justice Stephen finding for the taxpayer, and Justice McTiernan finding for the ATO.\n\nMcTiernan's judgement was that the transactions formally met the requirements of section 77A for deductibility, but that the only practical purpose of them was to relieve Mullens from tax liabilities and hence they came under section 260 as altering the incidence of taxation. (This judgement meant he didn't need to consider the alternative that the transactions might have been a sham.)\n\nBarwick and Stephen on the other hand firstly disagreed with Justice Sheppard's initial conclusion that the transactions could have been shams, finding the documentation and negotiations between the parties ample. They noted in particular that Mullens didn't get the \"two-way\" option it had wanted (the right to force the Vam shareholders to buy back), so there was a real commercial risk being borne.\n\nBoth justices then also disagreed with Sheppard and with McTiernan that section 260 applied. Their view was that section 77A was unequivocal about giving a tax benefit to those who subscribed for petroleum shares, like Mullens had. They noted there were no extra conditions in that section to be fulfilled (though perhaps there ought to have been for instance a minimum holding period).\n\nSo with Mullens satisfying the requirements of a section of the act, applying section 260 would take away something the act explicitly gave. Stephen noted Justice Menzies in \"Ellers Motor Sales Pty Ltd v Federal Commissioner of Taxation\" (1969) who said it could not be that an advantage in one part of the act \"was given merely to be taken away by the operation of s.260\".\n\nThe decision here that section 260 did not apply extended the prior \"choice principle\" from \"Keighery v Federal Commissioner of Taxation\". That case allowed the taxpayer to choose between two alternatives in the act, the Mullens decision allowed a taxpayer to enter a particular set of circumstances described by the act for the purpose of gaining the effects it described, even if those effects were beneficial. This latter principle was subsequently used in cases such as \"Cridland\".\n\nSection 77A of the ITAA 1936 was repealed before the court cases, that tax concession having apparently served its purpose.\n\nA not dissimilar example of tax benefit shifting came with dividend imputation in the 1990s. Foreigners were unable to use the imputation credits and so instead \"sold\" them to Australian institutions by transferring the shares to them just across the dividend record date. General anti-avoidance provisions didn't apply, because both parties' taxable incomes increased. A holding period rule of the kind alluded to by Barwick and Stephen above had to be instituted.\n"}
{"id": "27715812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27715812", "title": "Naoyuki Agawa", "text": "Naoyuki Agawa\n\nNaoyuki was born in Tokyo in 1951. He is the son novelist and historian Hiroyuki Agawa. His younger sister is the writer and Japanese television personality Sawako Agawa. \n\nNaoyuki undergraduate education began at Keio University; but in 1975, he transferred in 1975 to Georgetown University in Washington, DC. He graduated magna cum laude in 1977 from the School of Foreign Service. He returned to Japan after earning his BSFS; but he would return to Georgetown, earning a law degree in 1984.\n\nIn 1977, Naoyuki joined the Sony Corporation, working in Tokyo on matters relating to international trade and copyright law. \n\nAfter earning a law degree, he practiced law—initially with the firm of Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher in Washington and Tokyo (1987–1995) and then with Nishimura & Partners in Tokyo (1995–1999). \n\nIn 1999, Naoyuki joined the Keio University faculty. He taught American constitutional law and history. \n\nFrom 2002 through 2005, he served as Minister for Public Affairs at the Embassy of Japan in Washington. \n\nNaoyuki returned to Keio in April 2005. He was elected Dean of the Faculty of Policy Management between June 2007 and June 2009. He became Vice-President in charge of international affairs at Keio in July 2009.\n\nNaoyuki Agawa's published writings encompass 8 works in 31 publications in 1 language and 168 library holdings.\n\n\nAgawa was distinguished in 2005 as the recipient of the Yomiuri-Yoshino Sakuzo Award. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "48326204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48326204", "title": "National Herald scam", "text": "National Herald scam\n\nThe \"National Herald\" scam is an ongoing case in a Delhi court filed by Indian economist and politician Subramanian Swamy against politicians Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi, their companies and associated persons. As per the complaint filed in the court of the Metropolitan Magistrate, Associated Journals Limited (AJL) took an interest-free loan of from Indian National Congress. It is alleged that the loan was not repaid. A closely held company, Young Indian, was incorporated in November 2010 with a capital of and it acquired almost all the shareholding of AJL and all its properties (alleged to be worth ). Swamy alleged criminal misappropriation by both Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi. The courts have determined that a prima face case has been established in the matter.\n\nAssociated Journals Limited (AJL) is an unlisted public company limited by shares, incorporated on 20 November 1937, with its registered office at Herald House, 5-A, Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg, New Delhi. It was the brainchild of Jawaharlal Nehru but it was never his personal property as it was started with the support of about 5,000 freedom fighters who became shareholders of AJL. The company's capital was divided into 2,000 preferential shares worth each and 30,000 ordinary (equity) shares worth each. Apart from Nehru, AJL's Memorandum of Association was signed by stalwarts such as Purushottam Das Tandon, Acharya Narendra Dev, Kailash Nath Katju, Rafi Ahmad Kidwai, Krishna Dutt Paliwal and Govind Ballabh Pant. The company did not belong to any particular person, nor did it want to be associated with any business except news. AJL had 1,057 shareholders as of 29 September 2010 as per the annual return filed by the company with the Registrar of Companies.\n\nMotilal Vora has been the chairman and managing director of AJL since 22 March 2002. The company had incurred losses before its holdings were transferred to Young India in 2011.\n\nAJL published the \"National Herald\" newspaper in English, \"Qaumi Awaz\" in Urdu and \"Navjeevan\" in Hindi until 2008. AJL also owns real estate property in various cities including New Delhi, Lucknow, Bhopal, Mumbai, Indore, Patna and Panchkula. The value of the real estate owned by AJL is estimated to be at . The properties of AJL include Herald House, a six-storey building with around 10,000 sq metre office space.\n\nOn 21 January 2016 the AJL in its meeting in Lucknow decided to relaunch the three dailies, National Herald and its sister publications, Quami Awaz and Navjivan.\n\nAfter the Delhi High Court dismissed the appeal of Sonia Gandhi and others against the summons issued by the trial court, many shareholders of AJL have alleged that no notice was served on them by AJL for any meeting of the shareholders and that the shares held by their fathers have been transferred by AJL to Young Indian fraudulently without their consent in December 2010. These shareholders include prominent individuals such as former law minister Shanti Bhushan and former chief justice of Allahabad and Madras High Courts Markandey Katju.\n\nYoung Indian is a private company limited by guarantee, incorporated on 23 November 2010 with a capital of and with its registered office at 5A, Herald House, Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg, Delhi. On 13 December 2010, Rahul Gandhi was appointed director of Young Indian while Sonia Gandhi joined the board of directors on 22 January 2011. Of the company's shares, 76 percent are jointly held by Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi, and the remaining 24 percent are held by Congress leaders Motilal Vora and Oscar Fernandes (12 percent each). It is described by Rahul Gandhi's office as a \"not-for-profit company\" which does have commercial operations.\n\nOn 1 November 2012, Subramanian Swamy filed a private complaint in a court in Delhi alleging that both Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi have committed fraud and land grabbing worth by acquiring a publicly limited company called Associated Journals Limited (AJL) through their owned private company, Young Indian. He also claimed that, through this fraud, they had got the publication rights of the \"National Herald\" and \"Quami Awaz\" newspapers, with real estate properties in Delhi and Uttar Pradesh. He alleged that the acquired properties were given by the government only for the purposes of publishing newspapers, but were used for running a passport office with rental income amounting to millions of rupees.\n\nHis complaint in the court further alleges that, on 26 February 2011, AJL approved the transfer of an unsecured loan of from the All India Congress Committee at zero interest with all ninety million (9 crore) of the company's shares of each to Young Indian. Swamy argued that it is illegal for a political party to lend money for commercial purposes as per Section 29A to C of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, and Section 13A of Income-tax Act, 1961, and demanded investigation by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the de-recognition of the Indian National Congress party for using public money. On 2 November 2012, the party responded that the loan was given only for reviving the \"National Herald\" newspaper with no commercial interest.\n\nThe hearing of the criminal proceedings case was taken up by the magistrate on various dates while the defendants opposed the petition and asked the magistrate to dismiss it. The court finally observed that \"prima facie\" evidence against all the accused was found. The court issued summons to the defendants to appear in the court to defend themselves against all the allegations made in Swamy's complaint.\n\nOn 26 June 2014, Metropolitan Magistrate Ms. Gomati Manocha summoned Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi, Motilal Vora, Oscar Fernandes, Suman Dubey and Satyan Pitroda to appear in the court on 7 August 2014. She said that according to the evidence so far, \"it appears that YIL was in fact created as a sham or a cloak to convert public money to personal use\" to acquire control over worth of AJL assets. The court noted that all accused persons had allegedly acted \"in consortium with each other to achieve the said nefarious purpose/design\".\n\nThe defendants appealed in the Delhi High Court against the summons issued by the magistrate. On 1 August 2014, Swamy was served notice to file reply in the High Court. On 28 August 2014, the metropolitan court fixed 9 December 2014 for the next hearing of the case. On 12 January 2015, the judge of the Delhi High Court recused himself from hearing the case and directed that the petitions be directed before an appropriate bench.\n\nOn 27 January 2015, the Supreme Court of India directed Swamy to make a case for speedy trial in the Delhi High Court which was hearing the appeal of Sonia Gandhi and others against the summons issued to them by the trial court. On plea by Sonia Gandhi and others, defendants requested that the Chief Justice reassign the case to Justice Sunil Gaur, who had recused himself earlier. \n\nOn 1 August 2014, the Enforcement Directorate initiated a probe to discover if there was any money laundering in the case. On 18 September 2015, it was reported that the Enforcement Directorate had reopened the investigation.\n\nOn 7 December 2015, the Delhi High Court dismissed the appeals of Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi and five others which included Motilal Vora, Oscar Fernandes, Suman Dubey and Satyan Pitroda, and ordered them to appear in person before the trial court on 9 December. The Delhi High Court said in its 7 December 2015 judgment noted \"criminal intent.\"\n\nOn 12 February 2016 the Supreme Court granted exemption to all the five accused in the case from personal appearances while refusing to quash proceedings against them. Later on 12 July 2016 the Delhi High Court set aside the trial court judgement allowing examination of balance sheets and other documents of Congress party and other two companies, the AJL and Young Indian. The next hearing in the court is scheduled on 20 August.\n\nOn 7 December 2015, the Delhi High Court ordered Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi and five others to appear in person before the trial court on 9 December. They did not appear in the court and, on their lawyers' request, the trial court ordered them to appear before him in person on 19 December. He disallowed their request for exemption from personal appearance. On 19 December 2015 the Patiala House court granted bail to all but one and ordered them to appear in the court on the date of next hearing 20 February 2016.\n\nOn 11 March 2016 the trial court allowed, after hearing Swamy's plea to examine balance sheets of INC, AJL and Young Indian from 2010 to 2013, which was later overturned by the Delhi High Court.\n\nOn 26 May 2018 Subramanian Swamy's application to the trial court seeking a directive for the defendants to verify material filed by Swamy in the National Herald case was denied. \n\n"}
{"id": "2813483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2813483", "title": "Of counsel", "text": "Of counsel\n\nOf counsel is the title of an attorney in the legal profession of the United States who often has a relationship with a law firm or an organization but is neither an associate nor partner. Some firms use titles such as \"counsel\", \"special counsel\", and \"senior counsel\" for the same concept. According to American Bar Association Formal Opinion 90-357, the term \"of counsel\" is used to describe a \"close, personal, continuous, and regular relationship\" between the firm and counsel lawyer.<ref name=\"http://www.lacba.org/showpage.cfm?pageid=12424\"></ref> In large law firms, the title generally denotes a lawyer with the experience of a partner, but who does not carry the same workload or business development responsibility.\n\nFormal Opinion 90-357 of the American Bar Association provides four acceptable definitions of the term:\n\n\n\n\n\nThe title may be used in a number of situations, including:\n\n\n\n\nSome firms also use the term to refer to attorneys hired on a temporary basis to assist with a particular case. However, because \"of counsel\" describes \"a close, regular, personal relationship\", temporary lawyers used by law firms to engage in document reviews for a specific project or for limited duration are not \"of counsel\".\n\nThe average annual base salary for “of counsel” in the United States between 2003 and 2009 was US$216,019 (with salary varying depending on size/reputation of the firm, its location, and the attorney’ experience). At highly prestigious law firms, an \"of counsel\" may make as much as US$375,000 per year.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "671657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=671657", "title": "Permission culture", "text": "Permission culture\n\nPermission culture is a term often employed by Lawrence Lessig and other copyright activists such as Luis Villa and Nina Paley to describe a society in which copyright restrictions are pervasive and enforced to the extent that any and all uses of copyrighted works need to be explicitly leased. This has both economic and social implications: in such a society, copyright holders could require payment for each use of a work and, perhaps more importantly, permission to make any sort of derivative work.\n\nLawrence Lessig describes permission culture in contrast with free culture. While permission culture describes a society in which previous creators or those with power must grant people permission to use material, free culture ensures that anyone is able to create without restrictions from the past. An example Lessig cites in his book, \"Free Culture\", is photography. In this example, if the legal environment surrounding the early stages of photography had been stricter with what constituted ownership and leaned more towards permission culture, photography would have developed in a drastically different manner and would be limited.\n\nAn implication of permission culture is that creators are blocked by systemic procedures and this discourages innovation. Requiring permission in this sense means that creators will have to prove their usage of material is fair, even where legally unnecessary, which is a process that some would decide not to continue.\n\nThis term is often contrasted with remix culture.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15672869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15672869", "title": "Proxy firm", "text": "Proxy firm\n\nA proxy firm (also a proxy advisor, proxy adviser, proxy voting agency, vote service provider or shareholder voting research provider) provides services to shareholders (in most cases an institutional investor of some type) to vote their shares at shareholder meetings of, usually, quoted companies.\n\nThe typical services provided include agenda translation, provision of vote management software, voting policy development, company research, and vote administration including vote execution. According to their websites, not all firms provide voting recommendations and those that do may simply execute client voting instructions.\n\nThe votes executed are called \"Proxy Votes\" because the shareholder usually does not attend the meeting and instead sends instructions - a proxy appointment - for a third party, usually the chairman of the meeting to vote shares in accordance with the instructions given on the voting card.\n\nFirms in the industry include:\n\n\nAccording to their websites, most industry participants offer global coverage.\n\nThe role of proxy firms has come under considerable scrutiny in recent years, most notably from the US corporate lobby.\n\nIn 2013, the US Securities and Exchange Commission fined ISS $300,000 for revealing non-public information in respect of clients proxy votes\n\nA potential conflict of interest identified by the Government Accountability Office is that some owners of proxy firms do business with both issuers and investors. Analysis of executive remuneration, or executive pay, is a notable feature of the work of shareholder voting research.\nSome policymakers believe that increasing competition in the industry may improve service quality. For example, in 2010 a Securities & Exchange Commission consultation document asked whether certain issues in the proxy advisory industry, including conflicts of interest, are affected by limited competition.\n\nFollowing a number of regulatory reviews by securities regulators, including the Canadian Securities Administrators and the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) a number of firms have published a Code of Conduct: the Best Practice Principles for Shareholder Voting Research. The Code was developed with an independent chairman, Dr Dirk Zetsche, Propter Homines Chair for Banking and Securities law at the Institute for Financial Services of the University of Liechtenstein and Director of the Center for Business & Corporate Law at Heinrich Heine University in Duesseldorf/Germany.\n"}
{"id": "30198227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30198227", "title": "Railroad Track Maintenance Tax Credit", "text": "Railroad Track Maintenance Tax Credit\n\nThe Railroad Track Maintenance Tax Credit, also known as the 45G Tax Credit, is a federal income tax credit for track maintenance conducted by short lines and regional railroads in the United States. The credit granted an amount equal to 50% of qualified track maintenance expenditures and other qualifying railroad infrastructure projects. It was inserted into the tax code by the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, and was taken into effect on January 1, 2005 with an expiration date of December 31, 2009. Following the Tax Relief, Unemployment Insurance Reauthorization, and Job Creation Act of 2010, signed into law on December 17, 2010, the tax credit was retroactively extended for 2010 and the expiration date moved to January 1, 2012. United States fiscal cliff legislation retroactively reinstated the tax credit for 2012 when signed into law January 2, 2013. The tax credit was effective thru December 31, 2013. \n\nIn the United States, short line and regional railroads grew exponentially following railroad deregulation in 1980. By 2005 there were more than 500 railroads of this nature, serving small and mid-sized towns that otherwise would have lost rail service. These railroads were responsible for supporting more than 11,000 industrial sites, making them critically important to the local economies of the regions they serve. Maintenance costs for rail infrastructure is often expensive and difficult for low income railroads to cover, as a result some railroads partnered with the companies they served in order to fund maintenance. In order to assist the railroads with maintaining their infrastructure, the Railroad Track Maintenance Tax Credit was created. With more than $330 million in shortline infrastructure investment made annually, credits of $165 million would be placed back in the hands of the railroads and shippers through the tax credit. \n\nHighway and road infrastructure is maintained by federal and state governments. Freight rail infrastructure is maintained by private sector investments. Short lines use approximately 184 million gallons of fuel to move 10 million carloads of freight annually. Trucks would require 540 million gallons to move the same freight. Short lines keep 30 million truckloads per year off the highway.\n\nThe tax credit originated with the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. The credit was capped at $3,500 per mile of track, with eligibility for Class II and Class III railroads, any shippers who transport property using a Class II or Class III railroad, and companies that perform maintenance on or provide material to qualified railroads. With the passing of the act in October 2004, the effective date for the credit was December 31, 2004, with a scheduled expiration date of January 1, 2008, a period of 3 years.\n\nAs scheduled, the tax credits expired on January 1, 2008. However, under the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, the tax credit was extended through December 31, 2009. Expiration occurred for the second time as scheduled, however, an extension of the Railroad Maintenance Tax Credit was included in the Tax Relief, Unemployment Insurance Reauthorization, and Job Creation Act of 2010. Under the new legislation, the credit was retroactively applied to the 2010 tax year and extended through January 1, 2012.\n\n United States fiscal cliff legislation retroactively reinstated the tax credit for 2012 when signed into law January 2, 2013. The tax credit was effective thru December 31, 2013. \n\nAs of January 2014 no further extension of the federal tax credit has occurred but proposals in Congress are under consideration.\n\nInternal Revenue Service Form 8900 is used to claim the tax credit by the taxpayer at a maximum of $3500 per short line track mile per year or 50% of qualified railroad track maintenance paid or incurred during the year whichever is less. Form 8900 is used to assign tax credits between eligible taxpayers who have come to an agreement to transfer tax credits. Eligible taxpayers for this credit are short line railroads, transporters who use the railroad property and any taxpayer who furnishes goods and services to a short line railroad. Shareholders or partners of these eligible taxpayer may receive a passthru of these credits on form K-1.\n"}
{"id": "14918557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14918557", "title": "Request For Evidence", "text": "Request For Evidence\n\nA Request For Evidence (RFE), is a request issued by the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services to petitioners for residency, citizenship, family visas, and employment visas. Examples of petitions for which a RFE may be issued are Form I-129 (alien worker authorization), Form I-140 (immigrant worker authorization), and Form I-130 (family visas).\n\nThe RFE is intended for use in cases where the adjudicator (the person evaluating the petition) believes that there is not enough evidence to approve the petition, but also believes that the petition may be redeemable, and that there is no clear factual or statutory basis for denial.\n\nThe RFE, when used, should be as clear as possible about what types of additional evidence are needed to fill in the gap, and what inconsistencies or problems have been found in the evidence submitted so far. It is not intended for use for the adjudicator's reassurance in cases where there is enough evidence to approve the petition.\n\nThe RFE is sent to, and the response must be sent by, the petitioner (or the attorney representing the petitioner, in cases where the petition is filed through an attorney) rather than the beneficiary.\n\nThe following are some key differences between the RFE and the Notice of Intent to Deny (NOID):\n\n\nIn cases where the USCIS simply needs answers to a few specific questions (such as a complete translation), it simply issues a Request for Clarification instead of a RFE.\n\nSubmitting clear and complete documentation in the petition itself can minimize the need for RFEs. The USCIS website offers the following tips to avoid RFEs:\n\n\nRFEs typically request one or more of the following types of evidence:\n\nThe time within which the response to a RFE must be sent is indicated on the RFE. It generally varies between 30 and 90 days. If no response is received within the time indicated on the RFE, the USCIS will process the application without considering the additional evidence, which in most cases means a denial (because petitions where there was enough evidence to accept should not have RFEs in the first place).\n\nThe petitioner has only one chance to respond to a RFE,\n\n\nWhen responding to a RFE, the petitioner may attach additional pieces of evidence over and above those explicitly requested in the RFE.\n\nThe expected processing time for petitions is generally defined as the time till an approval, denial, RFE, or NOID is issued. Therefore, the time taken while waiting for a response from the petitioner is not counted as part of the processing time. After the petitioner responds, the expected additional processing time is comparable with the processing time for a complete first application.\n\nFor petitions that request the Premium Processing Service, the expected processing time to a first response (approval, denial, RFE, or NOID) is 15 days, and the time after receiving a response to the RFE is another 15 days.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45241830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45241830", "title": "San Diego County Public Defender", "text": "San Diego County Public Defender\n\nThe San Diego County Public Defender's office is an agency of the government of San Diego County, California. It provides legal assistance to individuals charged with a crime in state court who are financially unable to retain private counsel. The office consists of the Primary Public Defender, the Alternate Public Defender, the Office of Assigned Counsel & the Multiple Conflicts Office. Mental health and juvenile court matters are handled by special units within the divisions.\n\nCourts within their jurisdiction include the San Diego Superior Court, the California Court of Appeal for the Fourth District, and the California Supreme Court. The San Diego County District Attorney and the San Diego City Attorney prosecute alleged felony and misdemeanor violations of California state law that occur within the jurisdiction of San Diego County. Alleged federal law violations by indigent defendants are defended by the Federal Defenders of San Diego Inc.\n\nThe San Diego County Public Defender's Office was established in 1988 by a San Diego County resolution. The Alternate Public Defender was established by the Board of Supervisors in 1990. In 2005, the Multiple Conflicts Office - Major Cases (MCO) was created to represent people who are charged with complicated and serious cases throughout San Diego County and who are financially unable to retain private counsel. In 2009, the County of San Diego consolidated separate indigent defense offices—Public Defender, Alternate Public Defender, Office of Assigned Counsel, Juvenile Delinquency & Multiple Conflict Office—into one office. The office formed a Public Defender Community Outreach Program that strives to connect with partners in San Diego communities to enrich the lives of those less fortunate and assist in securing equal access to justice.\n\nIn 1994, San Diego County Public Defenders Kathleen Coyne and Susan Clemens were awarded Public Defender of the Year by the California Public Defender's Association for their work defending Dale Akiki in the Faith Chapel Church ritual abuse case. Several San Diego County Public Defenders have gone on to become judges in California Superior Court.\n\nIn 2014, the office filed over 5,000 petitions—after Proposition 47 (2014)—to have felony convictions and sentences reduced.\n\nThe San Diego County Primary Public Defender (PPD) provides the majority of indigent defense services in San Diego County. The Primary Public Defender has five offices in the County: downtown San Diego, Vista (North County), Chula Vista (South Bay), El Cajon (East County), and a Juvenile Office.\n\nThe APD is responsible for defending those cases where the Primary Public Defender has a conflict of interest or is unable to defend the individual for various reasons. The Office of the Alternate Public Defender has two divisions. The Adult Criminal Division—operating out of all APD locations—represents indigent persons accused of a crime. The Juvenile Delinquency Division—out of Kearny Mesa—represents minors accused of truancy or criminal offenses. The Alternate Public Defender maintains offices in downtown San Diego, El Cajon, South Bay, Vista, and Kearny Mesa.\n\nThe Multiple Conflicts Office - Major Cases (MCO) accepts court appointments that the Public Defender and the Alternate Public Defender are unable to accept due to a conflict of interest or other order of the court. MCO represents people who are charged with only the most complicated and serious cases throughout San Diego County. MCO attorneys possess many years of experience and training for the most serious types of criminal cases. The MCO is an independent and ethically separate division of the Department of the Public Defender and does not share client information or otherwise interact with attorneys from other divisions on the same case.\n\nIf a court finds that the PPD and APD have a conflict of interest, then Office of Assigned Counsel (OAC) will provide the indigent defendant with a private practitioner who has been pre-screened and placed on a panel managed by the OAC.\n\n"}
{"id": "22883927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22883927", "title": "Sino-Portuguese Treaty of Peking", "text": "Sino-Portuguese Treaty of Peking\n\nThe Sino-Portuguese Treaty of Peking was a trade treaty between the Kingdom of Portugal and the Qing dynasty of China, signed on 1 December 1887. It is counted by the Chinese as among the unequal treaties.\n\nOn 13 August 1862, China and Portugal signed the Treaty of Friendship and Trade in Tientsin (Tianjin). The treaty was largely a trade agreement but it also defined Macau's political and juridical statue, although it did not directly mention the issue of Portuguese sovereignty. It contained two clauses regarding Macau's status: Article II annulled earlier agreements and referred to Macau as \"formerly in the Province of Canton\", while Article III recognised the status of a \"Governor General of Macao\". However, China did not ratify the treaty and it become void in 1864.\n\nIn June 1886, a joint Sino-British commission advised that the administrative responsibility for controlling the import of opium into China should be transferred from the Hoppo in Canton (Guangzhou) to the Chinese Imperial Maritime Customs Service. Although Britain and China agreed to this, it could not be fully successful without Portuguese involvement. In 1887, China sent a diplomatic mission to Lisbon, which included James Campbell, a senior British member of the service, representing the superintendent of the customs service Sir Robert Hart. On 26 March 1887, Campbell and Portuguese Foreign Minister Henrique de Barros Gomes signed the four-point Lisbon Protocol:\nArt. 1st.—A Treaty of friendship and commerce with the most favoured nation clause will be concluded and signed at Peking.\n\nArt. 2nd.—China confirms perpetual occupation and government of Macao and its dependencies by Portugal, as any other Portuguese possession.\n\nArt. 3rd.—Portugal engages never to alienate Macao and its dependencies without agreement with China.\n\nArt. 4th.—Portugal engages to co-operate in opium revenue work at Macao in the same way as England at Hong Kong.\nPortugal followed up on this agreement by sending an envoy to Peking (Beijing), where a treaty of amity and commerce based on the protocol was drawn up. On 1 December 1887, the Treaty of Peking was signed by Chinese representatives Prince Ch'ing and Sun Iu-uen, and Tomas de Sousa Rosa for Portugal on 1 December 1887. It contained 54 articles and was ratified on 28 April 1888. Articles II and III stated:\nII. China confirms, in its entirety, the second Article of the Protocol of Lisbon, relating to the perpetual occupation and government of Macao by Portugal.\n\nIII. Portugal confirms, in its entirety, the third Article of the Protocol of Lisbon, relating to the engagement never to alienate Macao without previous agreement with China.\nAccording to the Portuguese interpretation, sovereignty over Macau was surrendered to Portugal. In the Chinese interpretation, only administrative rights were transferred.\n\nAfter December 1887, issues related to rent payments and the presence of a Chinese custom house or resident mandarin in Macau became irrelevant outside of academic interest. The early 20th century marked a new era for both countries, with Portugal's 1910 and China's 1911 republican revolutions establishing new governments. A growing nationalist movement in China voiced disapproval of the treaty and questioned its validity. These contentions manifested themselves in the unresolved topic of Macau's border demarcation. Although the Nationalist (Kuomintang) government in China vowed to abrogate the \"unequal treaties\", Macau's status remained unchanged. The 1928 Sino-Portuguese Treaty of Friendship and Trade reaffirmed Portuguese administration over Macau. In 1945, after the end of extraterritorial rights in China, the Nationalists called for the liquidation of foreign control over Hong Kong and Macau, but they were too preoccupied in the Chinese Civil War with the Communists to fulfil their goals of a \"rights recovery\" campaign.\n\nAfter the 1974 Revolution in Portugal, a new decolonisation policy paved the way for Macau's retrocession to the People's Republic of China (PRC). Portugal offered to withdraw from Macau in late 1974, but China declined the offer in favour of a later time because it sought to preserve international and local confidence in Hong Kong, which was still under British rule, and also because it prioritised the reunification of Taiwan. In January 1975, Portugal recognised the PRC as the sole legitimate government of China and ended ties with the Nationalists in Taipei. In 1976, Portugal unilaterally changed the legal designation of Macau from a \"colony\" to \"territory under Portuguese administration\". In 1987, the Sino-Portuguese Joint Declaration was signed and Macau became a \"Chinese territory under Portuguese administration\". On 20 December 1999—two years after the handover of Hong Kong—Macau was returned to Chinese rule.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21967925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21967925", "title": "Soft intellectual property", "text": "Soft intellectual property\n\nSoft intellectual property is sometimes used to refer to trademarks, copyright, design rights and passing off, in contrast to \"hard intellectual property\", which is sometimes used to refer to patents. Use of this phrase is controversial among IP practitioners.\n\nThe phrase \"soft intellectual property\" or \"Soft IP\" also refers to a system for licensing patents proposed in 2008. See Soft IP.\n\nIn Semiconductors industry the term has a different meaning described at Types of IP cores \n"}
{"id": "19160143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19160143", "title": "Staggered elections", "text": "Staggered elections\n\nIn staggered elections, not all places in an elected body are up for election at the same time. For example, United States Senators have a six-year term, but they are not all elected at the same time. Rather, elections are held every two years for one-third of Senate seats.\n\nStaggered elections have the effect of limiting control of a representative body by the body being represented, but can also minimize the impact of cumulative voting.\n\nMany companies use staggered elections as a tool to prevent takeover attempts. Some legislative bodies (most commonly upper houses) use staggered elections, as do some public bodies, such as the Securities and Exchange Commission.\n\nA staggered board of directors or classified board is a prominent practice in US corporate law governing the board of directors of a company, corporation, or other organization, in which only a fraction (often one third) of the members of the board of directors is elected each time instead of en masse (where all directors have one-year terms). Each group of directors falls within a specified \"class\"—e.g., Class I, Class II, etc.—hence the use of the term \"classified\" board.\n\nIn publicly held companies, staggered boards have the effect of making hostile takeover attempts more difficult. When a board is staggered, hostile bidders must win more than one proxy fight at successive shareholder meetings in order to exercise control of the target firm. Particularly in combination with a poison pill, a staggered board that cannot be dismantled or evaded is one of the most potent takeover defenses available to U.S. companies.\n\nIn corporate cumulative voting systems, staggering has two basic effects: it makes it more difficult for minorities to elect directors, as the fewer directorships up for election requires a larger per cent of the equity to win; and it makes takeover attempts less likely to succeed as it is harder to vote in a majority of new directors. Staggering may also however serve a more beneficial purpose, that is provide \"institutional memory\" — continuity in the board of directors — which may be significant for corporations with long-range projects and plans.\n\nInstitutional shareholders are increasingly calling for an end to staggered boards of directors—also called \"declassifying\" the boards. \"The Wall Street Journal\" reported in January 2007 that 2006 marked a key switch in the trend toward declassification or annual votes on all directors: more than half (55%) of the S&P 500 companies have declassified boards, compared with 47% in 2005.\n\n\n12 of the 24 provincial legislatures have staggered elections:\n\n\nThree of Australia's five State Legislative Councils use staggered elections:\n\nLocal councils in Western Australia also have staggered elections.\n\n27 of the State Senates in the United States have staggered elections:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11343848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11343848", "title": "Testamentary disposition", "text": "Testamentary disposition\n\nA testamentary disposition is any gift of any property by a testator under the terms of a will.\n\nTypes of testamentary dispositions include:\n\n"}
{"id": "3873527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3873527", "title": "Undress code", "text": "Undress code\n\nAn undress code is a dress code or social norm which sets an upper limit on the amount of clothing that can or should be worn. \n\nPromoters of the entertainment industry, including sport, attempt to \"sex-up\" the entertainment by under-dressing the entertainers or sportspeople. For example, in 1999, the beach volleyball regulatory body set a limit on the amount of clothing allowed for the athletes to wear during competition. These require only swimsuits as uniforms for women. This has led to some controversy. Similarly, organisers of some swimsuit competitions set a low maximum threshold for swimwear for contestants.\nThe social norm in some countries is to wear considerably less or briefer clothing than in others. Fashions since the mid-20th century has been towards briefer, more form-fitting styles, as well as thinner and sheer materials. In some cultures, including some in Africa, Latin America and South-East Asia/Oceania, traditional dress consists of less clothing than those of the West. Some religious traditions or rituals require the members to be nude, as was the case with the ancient Indian Gymnosophists or the Christian sect of the Adamites (the custom is still practised by ascetics of certain Indian religions, as in Jainism). (see also Christian naturism).\n\nLaws in many countries require a person to undress in some circumstances when requested by a customs or police officer in a strip search.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14542540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14542540", "title": "Unreported employment", "text": "Unreported employment\n\nUnreported employment; working under the table, off the books, cash-in-hand, illicit work or (in UK English) moonlighting, is illegal employment that is not reported to the government. The employer or the employee often does so for tax evasion or avoiding or violating other laws. The working contract is made without social security costs, and does typically not provide health insurance, paid parental leave, paid vacation or pension funds. It is a part of what has been called the underground economy, shadow economy, black market or the non-observed economy. \n\nPayments are generally in cash, and the employer often does not check the employee's background or credentials, as is sometimes required by law or otherwise expected by the industry's client base, such as a license or professional certification.\n\nWhile the hiring of the employee may or may not be legal in itself, it is often done when the employer or the employee intentionally fails to obey one or more laws.\n\nIn developed nations, unreported employment evades withholding tax and is part of the informal sector. It is hidden from the state for tax, social security, or labor law purposes but is legal in all other aspects.\n\nCommon types of employment sectors of unreported jobs include the following:\n\nReasons one may work or pay a worker cash-in-hand include:\n\nUnreported employment can have harmful effects on government, employers, and employees.\n\nUnreported employment directly affects the government's ability to fund resources (government spending). It causes a tax gap by the reducing tax revenue of a government.\n\nA 2005 University of California, Los Angeles study showed that the economy in California was particularly weak by more than two million workers being paid without paying taxes. Indeed, it's estimated that over US $214.6 billion went unreported to the IRS last year alone from this. \n\nThose who are employed under the table, including illegal immigrants, may be denied rights that legally employed workers have, such as minimum wage, various benefits (particularly unemployment benefits), and fair treatment.\n\nUnder-the-table employees who lose their jobs may not be entitled to collect unemployment benefits. They have limited causes of action against their employers for mistreatment, on-the-job work accidents or lack of payment. Employers have limited cause of actions against employees who commit crimes such as embezzlement, theft, or abuse of employer.\n\nIf practices are widespread, legitimate businesses may be undercut by and have difficultly competing with those who employ staff illegally.\n\nGovernment revenue agencies look for lifestyles out of line with the income reported. They have tools that aid in assessing unreported taxes, which can result in large fines or jail time for the employer.\n\nMany new entrepreneurs fail to report their first part-time hired employees. The complexity of employment regulations and large amount of paperwork can be daunting to a new entrepreneur, especially when someone is needed for only a few hours a week. That early underground early employment may be a vital step in the growth of a healthy open economy.\n\nDay laborers fill immediate gaps during labor shortages in some segments of the construction and landscape industries. Background checks, identification, required paperwork, and government filings for only a day's work can be prohibitive. That encourages unreported employment of short-term laborers.\n\nA large amount of work for only a day or two is unreported. Although nanny laws make allowances for the homeowner, businesses are typically required to fill out and file several hours worth of paperwork even for an hour's worth of work.\n\nThe amounts are too small for tax collecting agencies to pursue and the paper work too arduous to file and so legitimate micro-employment among businesses is rare. However, it is an important resource for many small businesses.\n\nIn professional fields like architecture, or marketing, unreported work is typically the first step to starting a legitimate business.\n\nAgain, paperwork, compliance, and knowledge of labor laws are prohibitive for the small amount of work that is performed. Although illegal, side business generate relatively little revenue and so are rarely the target of tax enforcers. Eventually, professional employees have enough work to be able to leave their employer and become independent. Then, paperwork is usually filed and self-employment taxes are reported. The business then becomes a legitimate and beneficial part of the economy.\n\nThose who are unlikely to find employment through the reported economy, including those with past criminal records or current warrants as well as illegal immigrants can be reasonably productive and self-sufficient. That keeps them from engaging in less-desirable activities like theft and drug use.\n\nSelf-employment in cottage industries is often unreported at first. A home cook for example, may sell a few pies to friends and co-workers without filing necessary sales taxes or self-employment taxes. Although that is usually illegal, it may lead to a legitimate and beneficial business and is often how small businesses are started.\n\nIn some countries, the tax system attempts to set minimum thresholds on the amounts liable. However, there is still the burden of compliance with the bookkeeping requirements to prove that one is exempt.\n\nShort-term youth employment is often unreported but can be very beneficial. A teenager hired to aid in constructing a shed or barn, for example, learns valuable skills and responsibility. Most youth would not be employed for short-term projects if employment had to be reported. Government revenue collectors typically ignore enforcement of such of beneficial, unreported employment. Youth-run lemonade stands that have been shut down by police for example have received an enormous amount of bad press and public outcry.\n\nIt has been argued that because illegal immigrants are unable or unlikely to take advantage of unemployment, welfare, and retirement benefits, they are less likely to be unemployed and are more likely to contribute to a productive society. That view also argues that in states that rely primarily on sales tax as revenue instead of income tax, illegal immigrants may contribute more in government revenues than the government benefits they receive thereby creating a net positive revenue stream for the governing body.\n\nOften, both the employer and employee agree on paying in cash. Frequently, the employer is running an unreported cash-based business. These methods make detection by authorities to be time-consuming and difficult. Most small-scale operations take place without any real enforcement effort. Lawn-mowing is a good example of a cash-based business that is frequently unreported.\n\nIn the United States, authorities have focused enforcement resources on large-scale operations like illegal immigrants who are employed by large companies. Discovery and enforcement of small-scaled unreported employment is typically through a secondary indiscretion like fraud, tax irregularities, and unrelated or partially-related civil/criminal violations of the employer or employee.\n\nAlthough the federal government may arrest, prosecute, and imprison an individual for engaging in commerce without the state's approval, the high cost of such enforcement is usually prohibitive except for the most egregious cases.\n\nAccording to a \"The New York Times\" report in February 2013, the Obama administration had demonstrated a new strategy to curb the employment of illegal immigrants by focusing on companies that hire them in the first place. By concentrating on the businesses employing the large numbers of illegal workers, the number of illegal immigrants working in the US would drop dramatically. The U.S. government would be doing so in a less confrontational manner than they had in recent years.\n\nIn 2009, American Apparel was convicted of having workers that partook in illicit work. About 1,800 of American Apparel's employees were illegal immigrants who were not authorized to work in the United States. No federal agents stormed into the company's factory demanding the employees to be deported, but rather sent a written notice that stated that American Apparel faced civil fines and would have to fire all workers who were unauthorized to be in the United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "9874951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9874951", "title": "Wilmington Ten", "text": "Wilmington Ten\n\nThe Wilmington Ten were nine young men and a woman, who were wrongfully convicted in 1971 in Wilmington, North Carolina of arson and conspiracy. Most were sentenced to 29 years in prison, and all ten served nearly a decade in jail before an appeal won their release. The case became an international \"cause célèbre\", in which many critics of the city and state characterized the activists as political prisoners.\n\nAmnesty International took up the case in 1976 and provided legal defense counsel to appeal the convictions. In 1978, Governor Jim Hunt reduced the sentences of the ten defendants. In 1980 in \"Chavis v. State of North Carolina\", 637 F.2d 213 (4th Cir., 1980), the convictions were overturned by the federal appeals court, on the grounds that the prosecutor and the trial judge had both violated the defendants' constitutional rights. They were not retried. In 2012 the surviving members of the Ten were pardoned by Governor Beverly Perdue.\n\nIn the 1960s and 1970s, black residents of Wilmington, North Carolina were dissatisfied with the lack of progress in implementing integration and other civil rights reforms achieved by the American Civil Rights Movement through congressional passage of civil rights legislation in 1964 and 1965. Many struggled with poverty and lack of opportunity. Despair at the 1968 assassination of Martin Luther King, Jr. increased racial tensions, with a rise in violence, including the arson of several white-owned businesses.\n\nRacial tension increased further after the 1969 integration of Wilmington high schools. The city chose to close the black Williston Industrial High School, a source of community pride. It laid off black teachers, principals, and coaches, transferring students among white-majority schools. The school board did little to prepare whites or blacks for these changes. The school administration resisted meeting with students to hear their grievances, including separation from friends and the lack of opportunity to play sports in new schools. Several clashes between white and black students resulted in a number of arrests and expulsions.\n\nIn response to tensions, members of a Ku Klux Klan chapter and other white supremacist groups began patrolling the streets. They hung an effigy of the white superintendent of the schools and cut his phone lines. Street violence broke out between them and black men.\n\nStudents decided to boycott the high schools in January 1971. In February, the United Church of Christ sent Reverend Benjamin Chavis, Jr., from their Commission for Racial Justice, to Wilmington to try to calm the situation and work with the students. He preached non-violence and met with students regularly at Gregory Congregational Church to discuss black history, as well as to organize the boycott.\n\nOn February 6, 1971, Mike's Grocery, a white-owned business, was firebombed. Firefighters responding to the fire said they were shot at by snipers from the roof of the nearby Gregory Congregational Church. Chavis and several students had been meeting at the church, which also held other people. The neighborhood erupted in rioting that lasted through the next day, in which two people died.\n\nThe North Carolina governor called up the National Guard, whose forces entered the church on February 8 and removed the suspects. The Guard claimed to have found ammunition in the building. The violence resulted in two deaths, six injuries, and more than $500,000 in property damage.\n\nChavis and nine others, eight young black men who were high school students, and an older, white, female anti-poverty worker, were arrested on charges of arson related to the grocery fire. Based on testimony of two black men, they were tried and convicted in state court of arson and conspiracy in connection with the firebombing of Mike's Grocery. They were sentenced to a total of 282 years in prison.\n\nThe \"Ten\" and their sentences: \n\nAt the time, the state's case against the Wilmington Ten was seen as controversial both in the state of North Carolina and in the United States. One witness testified that he was given a minibike in exchange for his testimony against the group. Another witness, Allen Hall, had a history of mental illness and had to be removed from the courthouse after recanting on the stand under cross examination.\n\nEach of the ten defendants was convicted of the charges. The men's sentences ranged from 29 years to 34 years for arson, considered severe punishment for a fire in which no one died. Ann Shepard of Auburn, New York, age 35, received 15 years as an accessory before the fact and conspiracy to assault emergency personnel. The youngest of the group, Earl Vereen, was 18 years old at the time of his sentencing. Reverend Chavis was the oldest of the men at age 24. The sentences totaled 282 years.\n\nSeveral national magazines, including \"Time,\" \"Newsweek,\" \"Sepia\" and \"The New York Times Magazine,\" published articles in the late 1970s on the trial and its aftermath. When then President Jimmy Carter admonished the Soviet Union in 1978 for holding political prisoners, the Soviets cited the Wilmington Ten as an example of American political imprisonment.\n\nAmnesty International took on the Wilmington Ten case in 1976. They classified the eight men still in prison as among 11 black men incarcerated in the U.S. who were considered to be political prisoners, under the definition in the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights.\n\nIn 1976 and 1977, three key prosecution witnesses recanted their testimony. In 1977 \"60 Minutes\" aired a special about the case, suggesting that the evidence against the Wilmington Ten was fabricated. In 1978, the \"New York Times\" reporter Wayne King published an investigatory article; based on testimony of a witness whose anonymity he protected, he said that perhaps the prosecution had framed a guilty man, as his source said that he had committed the crimes at the behest of Chavis. In 1978 Governor Jim Hunt reduced the sentences of the Ten. \n\nIn 1980, the 4th Circuit Court of Appeals, a federal court, overturned the convictions, as it determined that (1) the prosecutor failed to disclose exculpatory evidence, in violation of the defendants' due process rights (the Brady rule]); and (2) the trial judge erred by limiting the cross-examination of key prosecution witnesses about special treatment the witnesses received in connection with their testimony, in violation of the defendants' 6th Amendment right to confront the witnesses against them. \"Chavis v. State of North Carolina,\" 637 F.2d 213 (4th Cir. 1980). It ordered a new trial, but the state chose not to prosecute again. Chavis and the other seven prisoners were released.\n\nA group called the Wilmington Ten Foundation for Social Justice was established to work to improve conditions in the city.\n\nIn May 2012, Benjamin Chavis and six surviving members of the group petitioned North Carolina governor Beverly Perdue for a pardon. The NAACP supported the pardon, as well as arguing for compensation to be paid to the men and their survivors for their years in jail. On December 22, 2012 \"The New York Times\" published an editorial titled, \"Pardons for the Wilmington Ten\", that urged Governor Perdue to \"finally pardon\" the group of civil rights activists.\nPerdue granted a pardon of innocence for each of the ten on December 31, 2012. The pardon qualified each of the ten to state compensation of $50,000 per year of incarceration.\n\nThe claims were approved by the North Carolina Industrial Commission and signed off on by the Attorney General Roy Cooper's office in May 2013. Total compensation was $1,113,605: Ben Chavis received $244,470, Marvin Patrick received $187,984, with most of the remaining rewards being $175,000 each. As four of the Wilmington Ten were deceased at this date, their families received no compensation. A case is currently pending before the NC Industrial Commission seeking that compensation be awarded to the families of the four deceased; Jerry Jacobs, Ann Shepard, Connie Tindall, and Joe Wright. \n\n\n\n\n"}
