{"id": "2007367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007367", "title": "Abu Dawud", "text": "Abu Dawud\n\n"}
{"id": "33146684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33146684", "title": "Arthur L. Howard", "text": "Arthur L. Howard\n\nArthur L. \"Gat\" Howard (1846 – February 17, 1901), was an American and Canadian expert in the use of the early machine gun. He is best known for his use of a Gatling gun in support of the Canadian militia in the North-West Rebellion of 1885.\n\nHoward served for five years in the regular United States Cavalry. After leaving the regular army, he lived in New Haven, Connecticut, where he was employed by Winchester Arms. Howard then formed a cartridge-making firm of his own called A.L. Howard & Co., but his business premises were destroyed by fire in 1883. On July 18, 1884, Howard was placed in command of the Machine Gun Platoon, Connecticut National Guard, with the rank of Second Lieutenant.\n\nWhen the North-West Rebellion of Métis and Indians broke out in western Canada, in March 1885, the Canadian militia commander, Major General Frederick Middleton, suggested that two Gatling guns be procured from the United States. Dr. Richard J. Gatling, the gun's inventor, began searching for a man who was an expert in the use of the Gatling, and selected Lieutenant Howard. Howard agreed to go to Canada with the two Gatlings. He was granted a month's leave of absence from the Guard (later extended). The Connecticut Guard later made it plain that they had \"no hand\" in Howard's planned expedition.\n\nHoward left his wife and four children and a comfortable middle class life to travel to the North-West Territories with the Gatlings. His fascination with the Gatling gun, and scientific determination to test it under arduous battle conditions seem to have motivated his undertaking a dangerous mission which completely lacked U.S. government sanction – although this did not deter him from wearing his blue American officer's uniform in Canada, even on the battlefield. Howard's unofficial status was made even plainer when Dr. Gatling said that the lieutenant was not working for the Gatling manufacturer. He was travelling to Canada, Dr. Gatling said, merely as \"a friend of the gun.\"\n\nHoward journeyed, partly by rail, partly overland, to Swift Current, North-West Territories. There he gave a demonstration of the weapon to some fascinated Canadian militiamen and Mounted Police, one of whom wrote:\n\n\"These curious instruments of destruction we inspect with interest, and their trial is watched eagerly. A few rounds are fired at some duck on a distant pond – no execution is done apparently, but the rapidity of fire shows us how very deadly a weapon of this kind might be on proper occasions. We want now to see one tried on the Indians...\"\n\nOne of the Gatlings was used at the Battle of Cut Knife on May 2, 1885. However eyewitness accounts make it clear that Howard was not present; rather, the gun was operated by Canadian gunners.\n\nHoward himself and one Gatling embarked on the South Saskatchewan River aboard the steamboat \"Northcote\", by which he travelled to Fish Creek, arriving on May 5, 1885. There he formed part of a Canadian militia column, which then moved on Louis Riel's capital at Batoche. On May 9, 1885, the first day of the Battle of Batoche, Howard fired some of the first shots from the militia side, aiming some rounds at the Roman Catholic rectory (the bullet holes may still be seen). He distinguished himself in action later that day, when his prompt and courageous actions prevented a group of the Métis from capturing one or more Canadian field guns. He was shifted that day from place to place so that the Gatling's firepower could be used to beat off significant enemy attacks. On May 12, 1885, the final day of the battle, Howard and his Gatling were again in the thick of the fighting, being brought up to defeat the last resistance near the village of Batoche.\nAfter the militia victory, Howard stayed in Canada, and became a wealthy cartridge manufacturer. On the outbreak of the Second Boer War, he became a machine gun officer in the Canadian Mounted Rifles. He then organized a unit called the Canadian Scouts, with the rank of major. Arthur Howard was killed in action on February 17, 1901.\n\nHoward was given the nickname \"Gat\" by the Canadian popular press during the campaign of 1885.\n\n"}
{"id": "19326114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19326114", "title": "Barbara Tausia", "text": "Barbara Tausia\n\nBarbara Anelka Tausia (born 8 July 1977) is a Belgian choreographer and dancer. She is the wife of French footballer Nicolas Anelka and has followed her husband around Europe as he has changed teams.\n\nBarbara Tausia began her dance and music career as a vocal artist with the French hip hop singer MC Solaar, singing on the song \"La La, La La\" on his album \"Cinquième As\". In 2003 she was named as the singer of the Italian dance band Eu4ya, releasing a cover of Ricchi e Poveri's \"Sarà perchè ti amo\", following it up in 2004 with a cover of the Steam song \"Na Na Hey Hey Kiss Him Goodbye\". She is also a dancer on a popular French TV show.\n\nIn 2006 she founded the event and Public Relations company with her business partner Between in Paris. Between agency has several clients such as Adidas, Quick, Sony Ericsson, Reebok, Paris Saint Germain F.C., and American celebrities such as P. Diddy, Jay-Z and Timbaland. Between also takes care of Nicolas Anelka's press and public relations.\n\n\n\nShe was raised with her family in Belgium and then moved to Paris for her dance career; there she met Nicolas Anelka. They married on 9 June 2007 in Marrakesh, Morocco.\n\n"}
{"id": "27389289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27389289", "title": "Bertrand Russell Society", "text": "Bertrand Russell Society\n\nThe Bertrand Russell Society is a non-profit learned society whose purpose is to foster a better understanding of Bertrand Russell and his work. The Society was founded in 1974 by, among others, Lady Katharine Tait, Russell's only daughter.\n\nThe Society publishes the \"Bertrand Russell Society Bulletin\", and all members receive \"Russell: the Journal of Bertrand Russell Studies\". The Society holds an annual meeting, and offers numerous prizes for literature and other work. The Society also sponsors talks in conjunction with the American Philosophical Association (APA) and the Society for the Study of the History of Analytical Philosophy (SSHAP).\n\nThe Bertrand Russell Society has three aims (Bylaws, Article 2):\n\n\nThe BRS motto is: \"The good life is one inspired by love and guided by knowledge.\"\n-Bertrand Russell (1925) \"What I Believe\"; cited from p. 349 in \"The Basic Writings of Bertrand Russell\" (Routledge Classics, New York: 2009).\n\nFounded in 1974, the Bertrand Russell Society seeks to foster a better understanding of the life, work, and writings of Bertrand Russell (1872-1970) and how his contributions relate to today's world. The Society has a regular annual meeting featuring scholarly and popular presentations about Russell and related subjects, a business meeting, a banquet, and good fellowship. Usually in June, most often in a university setting, annual meetings have taken place at wide variety of locations.\n\nThe Society publishes the \"Bertrand Russell Society Bulletin\", which is free to all members. Interested persons are invited to submit papers to the editor, William Bruneau. Members also receive the scholarly journal \"Russell\".\n\nThe Bertrand Russell Society Library has a collection of Russell-related books and papers that members can borrow and a large selection of television and radio interviews of Russell online in the members area of the Library. Members of the Bertrand Russell Society may contact us for access.\n\nThe Society awards annual student-paper-prizes for the best new papers about Russell by undergraduate and graduate students. Prize-winners present their papers at our annual meeting, receive $200, free registration, lodging and banquet at the meeting, and a 1-year membership in the BRS.\n\nThe Society also awards an annual BRS Book Award for the best new book on Russell, an annual BRS Award to an individual or an organization whose work best furthers the interests and commitments of Bertrand Russell, and the Lee Eisler Service Award for service to the Russell Society.\n\nThe Society sponsors sessions of talks on Russell and early analytic philosophy more generally at meetings of the American Philosophical Association (APA), often in conjunction with the Society for the Study of the History of Analytical Philosophy (SSHAP).\n\nThe Society helps support Russell scholarship, for example, the scholarly journal \"Russell: The Journal of Bertrand Russell Studies\", which all BRS members receive as part of their membership, and maintains these web pages to provide information on Russell and related subjects and to further our shared interests and values.\n\n"}
{"id": "31242544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31242544", "title": "Buffy Dee", "text": "Buffy Dee\n\nBuffy Dee, born Anthony DeSantolo (1923–1995), was an Italian-American actor and musician. Buffy Dee suffered from Polio as a child and spent a short portion of his life in wheelchair. Although he recovered, he was left with a slight limp. He went to school for Law and finally finished his degree at the University of Miami. He married Eleanor Korn. He did not have any children. Buffy Dee was a drummer for Carmen Cavallaro.\n"}
{"id": "1907745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907745", "title": "Edward Condon", "text": "Edward Condon\n\nEdward Uhler Condon (March 2, 1902 – March 26, 1974) was a distinguished American nuclear physicist, a pioneer in quantum mechanics, and a participant in the development of radar and nuclear weapons during World War II as part of the Manhattan Project. The Franck–Condon principle and the Slater–Condon rules are co-named after him.\n\nHe was the director of the National Bureau of Standards (now NIST) from 1945 to 1951. In 1946, Condon was president of the American Physical Society, and in 1953 was president of the American Association for the Advancement of Science.\n\nDuring the McCarthy period, when efforts were being made to root out communist sympathizers in the United States, Edward Condon was a target of the House Un-American Activities Committee on the grounds that he was a 'follower' of a 'new revolutionary movement', quantum mechanics; Condon defended himself with a famous commitment to physics and science.\n\nCondon became widely known in 1968 as principal author of the \"Condon Report\", an official review funded by the United States Air Force that concluded that unidentified flying objects (UFOs) have prosaic explanations. The lunar crater Condon is named for him.\n\nEdward Uhler Condon was born on March 2, 1902, in Alamogordo, New Mexico, to William Edward Condon and Carolyn Uhler. His father was supervising the construction of a narrow-gauge railroad, many of which were built in the area by logging companies. After graduating from high school in Oakland, California in 1918, he worked as a journalist for three years at the \"Oakland Inquirer\" and other papers.\n\nHe then attended the University of California, Berkeley, initially joining the College of Chemistry; when he learned that his high school physics teacher had joined the faculty, he switched majors to take classes in theoretical physics. Condon earned his bachelor's degree in three years and his doctorate in two. His Ph.D. thesis combined work by Raymond Thayer Birge on measuring and analyzing band spectral intensities and a suggestion by James Franck.\n\nThanks to a National Research Council fellowship, Condon studied at Göttingen under Max Born and at Munich under Arnold Sommerfeld. Under the latter, Condon rewrote his Ph.D. thesis using quantum mechanics, creating the Franck–Condon principle. After seeing an ad in \"Physical Review\", Condon worked in public relations at Bell Telephone Laboratories in fall 1927, in particular promoting their discovery of electron diffraction.\n\nCondon taught briefly at Columbia University and was associate professor of physics at Princeton University from 1928 to 1937, except for a year at the University of Minnesota. With Philip M. Morse, he wrote \"Quantum Mechanics\", the first English-language text on the subject in 1929. With G.H. Shortley, he wrote the \"Theory of Atomic Spectra\", \"a bible on the subject from the moment of its 1935 publication\".\n\nHe was associate director of research at the Westinghouse Electric Company in Pittsburgh, beginning in 1937, where he established research programs in nuclear physics, solid-state physics, and mass spectroscopy. He then headed the company's research on microwave radar development. He also worked on the equipment used to isolate uranium for use in atomic bombs. He served as a consultant to the National Defense Research Committee during World War II and helped organize MIT's Radiation Laboratory. On May 11, 1940, Condon showcased his machine called the Nimatron at the 1940 New York World Fair. Condon filed for the patent on April 26, 1940 and got it on September 24, 1940 for his innovating machine, Nimatron.\n\nIn 1943, Condon joined the Manhattan Project. Within six weeks, he resigned as a result of conflicts about security with General Leslie R. Groves, the project's military leader. General Groves had objected when Condon's superior J. Robert Oppenheimer held a discussion with the director of the project's Metallurgical Lab at the University of Chicago. \n\nIn his resignation letter, he explained: From August 1943 to February 1945, Condon worked as a part-time consultant at Berkeley on the separation of U-235 and U-238. Condon was elected to the National Academy of Sciences in 1944. Following the war, Condon played a leading role in organizing scientists to lobby for civilian control of atomic energy rather than military control under strict security. He worked as science adviser to Senator Brien McMahon, chairman of the Senate Special Committee on Atomic Energy, which wrote the McMahon-Douglas Act, enacted in August 1946, that created the Atomic Energy Commission, placing atomic energy under civilian control. Adopting an internationalist viewpoint, Condon favored international scientific cooperation and joined the American-Soviet Science Society.\n\nPresident Harry S. Truman nominated Condon to be director of the National Bureau of Standards (now known as NIST) in 1945. He was confirmed by the Senate without opposition and served until 1951. He was also president of the American Physical Society in 1946. \n\nDuring the 1940s, Condon's security clearance status was repeatedly questioned, reviewed, and re-established. \n\nOn May 29, 1946, FBI Director J. Edgar Hoover wrote a letter intended for President Truman that named several senior government officials as part of a Soviet network. It described Condon as \"nothing more or less than an espionage agent in disguise.\" (Decades later Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan called it \"baseless corridor talk.\") The Truman administration ignored Hoover's charges. \n\nOn March 21, 1947, Truman signed United States Executive Order 9835 AKA the \"Loyalty Order.\" \n\nCongressman J. Parnell Thomas, head of the House Un-American Activities Committee (HUAC), furnished information to the \"Washington Times-Herald\" that denigrated his loyalty in two articles published in March 1947. Thomas had several reasons to make a prominent case of Condon. He had no sympathy for the scientific community's international spirit in the first place and could use the ongoing controversy to argue for an increase in his committee's appropriation, to bolster opposition to the Condon-supported McMahon Act, and to attract favorable coverage during election season. The Department of Commerce cleared Condon of disloyalty charges on February 24, 1948. A HUAC report dated March 2, 1948 said that \"It appears that Dr. Condon is one of the weakest links in our atomic security\". Condon responded: \"If it is true that I am one of the weakest links in atomic security that is very gratifying and the country can feel absolutely safe for I am completely reliable, loyal, conscientious and devoted to the interests of my country, as my whole life and career clearly reveal\". When U.S. Secretary of Commerce W. Averell Harriman refused to turn over loyalty files to the U.S. Atomic Energy Committee, on March 6, 1948, the \"Washington Post\" ran an editorial stating, \"There is an abundance of precedent for the Secretary's refusal to turn over his department's loyalty board files on Dr. Edward U. Condon.\" The \"Post\" also objected to an alternative proposal to send files on the Condon case to the top-level \"Loyalty Review Board\" in the Civil Service Commission. The Commerce Department's own loyalty board had already cleared Condon, and the \"Post\" argued that this decision should stand.\n\nThose who defended him included Albert Einstein and Harold Urey. The entire physics department of Harvard and numerous professional organizations wrote Truman on Condon's behalf. The Emergency Committee of Atomic Scientists held a dinner on April 12, 1948, to demonstrate support, with nine Nobel Prize winners among the sponsors. The National Academy of Sciences, by contrast, considered only a statement criticizing HUAC's procedures rather than defending Condon. Despite widespread support among its members (275 to 35), the National Academy of Sciences' leadership did not release a statement, and instead opted to speak privately with Rep. Thomas. On July 15, 1948, the Atomic Energy Commission granted Condon a security clearance, allowing him to access classified information at NIST.\n\nIn September 1948, at the Annual Meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS), President Truman, with Condon sitting nearby on the dais, denounced Rep. Thomas and HUAC on the grounds that vital scientific research \"may be made impossible by the creation of an atmosphere in which no man feels safe against the public airing of unfounded rumors, gossip and vilification\". He called HUAC's activities \"the most un-American thing we have to contend with today. It is the climate of a totalitarian country\". Condon opposed any cooperation with Congressional attempts to identify security risks within the scientific community. In June 1949, in a sharply critical letter to Oppenheimer, who had provided information to HUAC about a colleague, he wrote: \"I have lost a good deal of sleep trying to figure out how you could have talked this way about a man whom you have known for so long, and of whom you know so well what a good physicist and good citizen he is.\" In July 1949, he testified before a Senate subcommittee that was considering rules governing the operation of Senate committees. He criticized Thomas and the HUAC for holding closed hearings and then leaking information that denigrated his loyalty and that of other scientists. He said that the committee denied his and his colleagues' requests for public hearings so they could respond.\n\nWith his record finally cleared in 1951, Condon left government to become head of research and development for the Corning Glass Works. He said his $14,000 annual government salary was his reason for the move. President Truman issued a statement of praise: \"You have served in a most critical position with continued and loyal attention to your duties as director, and by reason of your standing among scientists and the supervision you have given to the bureau's activities, you have made of it a more important agency than it has ever been before\". Two Republican Congressmen asserted that Condon was being investigated as a security risk and was leaving \"under fire\", a charge the Secretary of Commerce Charles Sawyer denied.\n\nOn December 27, 1951, Condon was elected to head the AAAS in 1953. In September 1952, Condon, in testimony before a Congressional committee, had his first opportunity to deny under oath all charges of disloyalty that had been made against him. The HUAC concluded in its annual report for 1952 that Condon was unsuited for a security clearance because of his \"propensity for associating with persons disloyal or of questionable loyalty and his contempt for necessary security regulations\". On December 30, 1952, Condon assumed the presidency of the AAAS at its annual meeting, where, according to the \"Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists\", \"The tremendous ovation by his fellow members accompanying his induction was a further affirmation of their faith in his loyalty and integrity\".\n\nFive months later Condon's clearance was revoked as was standard when someone left government service. He was granted a security clearance once more on July 12, 1954. It was announced on October 19 and then suspended by Secretary of the Navy Charles S. Thomas on October 21. Vice President Nixon took credit for the suspension, and the Atomic Scientists of Chicago charged \"political abuse of the national security system\", though Secretary Thomas denied Nixon had played a role. Condon withdrew his application for clearance and in December resigned from Corning because the company was seeking government research contracts and he lacked the clearance necessary for participating in military research. After citing the security reviews he had passed over the years, he said: \"I am unwilling to continue a potentially indefinite series of reviews and re-reviews\". Corning had paid Condon's clearance-related legal expenses while he worked there.\n\nIn 1958, Condon wrote that his decision reflected his belief that the Eisenhower administration \"was committed by policy to the persecution of scientists, or, at the very least, to a callous indifference toward what others were doing to attack and discredit them. I decided the situation was hopeless, and that I had done all that could be reasonably expected of me in having resisted these forces for seven long years\".\n\nYears later, Carl Sagan reported how Condon described one encounter with a loyalty review board. A board member stated his concern: \"Dr. Condon, it says here that you have been at the forefront of a revolutionary movement in physics called...quantum mechanics. It strikes this hearing that if you could be at the forefront of one revolutionary movement...you could be at the forefront of another\". Condon said he replied: \"I believe in Archimedes' Principle, formulated in the third century B.C. I believe in Kepler's laws of planetary motion, discovered in the seventeenth century. I believe in Newton's laws...\" and continued with a catalog of scientists from earlier centuries, including the Bernoulli, Fourier, Ampère, Boltzmann, and Maxwell. He once said privately: \"I join every organization that seems to have noble goals. I don't ask whether it contains Communists\".\n\nCondon was professor of physics at Washington University in St. Louis from 1956 to 1963 and then at the University of Colorado Boulder from 1963, where he was also a fellow of the Joint Institute for Laboratory Astrophysics, until retiring in 1970.\n\nFrom 1966 to 1968, Condon directed Boulder's UFO Project, known as the Condon Committee. He was chosen for his eminence and his lack of any stated position on UFOs. He later wrote that he agreed to head the project \"on the basis of appeals to duty to do a needed public service\" on the part of the U.S. Air Force Office of Scientific Research. Its final report concluded that unidentified flying objects had prosaic explanations. It has been cited as a key factor in the generally low levels of interest in UFOs among mainstream scientists and academics.\n\nCondon was also president of the American Institute of Physics and the American Association of Physics Teachers in 1964. He was president of the Society for Social Responsibility in Science (1968–69) and was co-chairman of the National Committee for a Sane Nuclear Policy (1970). He co-edited the \"Handbook of Physics\" with Hugh Odishaw of the University of Arizona. He received the Frederic Ives Medal awarded by the Optical Society in 1968. On his retirement, his colleagues honored him with the publication of a \"Festschrift\".\n\nCondon married Emilie Honzik. They had two sons and a daughter. The son, Joseph Henry Condon (15 February 1935 — 2 January 2012) was a physicist (Ph.D., Northwestern University) and engineer, who worked at Bell Labs on digital telephone switches and co-invented the Belle chess computer.\n\nCondon died on March 26, 1974, in Boulder Colorado Community Hospital.\n\nThe National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) gives an annual award named for Condon. The Condon Award recognizes distinguished achievements in written exposition in science and technology at NIST. The award was initiated in 1974. \n\nThe crater Condon on the Moon is named in his honor.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43811799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43811799", "title": "Edward Creutz", "text": "Edward Creutz\n\nEdward Creutz (January 23, 1913 – June 27, 2009) was an American physicist who worked on the Manhattan Project at the Metallurgical Laboratory and the Los Alamos Laboratory during World War II. After the war he became a professor of physics at the Carnegie Institute of Technology. He was Vice President of Research at General Atomics from 1955 to 1970. He published over 65 papers on botany, physics, mathematics, metallurgy and science policy, and held 18 patents relating to nuclear energy.\n\nA graduate of the University of Wisconsin–Madison, Creutz helped Princeton University build its first cyclotron. During World War II he worked on nuclear reactor design under Eugene Wigner at the Metallurgical Laboratory, designing the cooling system for the first water-cooled reactors. He led a group that studied the metallurgy of uranium and other elements used in reactor designs. In October 1944, he moved to the Los Alamos Laboratory, where he became a group leader.\n\nAfter the war ended, Creutz accepted an offer to come to the Carnegie Institute of Technology, where he became the head of its Physics Department and its Nuclear Research Center in 1948. In 1955 he returned to Los Alamos to evaluate its thermonuclear fusion program for the Atomic Energy Commission. While there he accepted an offer to become Vice President for Research and Development and the Director of its John Jay Hopkins Laboratory for Pure and Applied Science at General Atomics. Under his leadership, General Atomics developed TRIGA, a nuclear reactor for universities and laboratories.\n\nCreutz served as an assistant director of the National Science Foundation from 1970 to 1977, and then as Director of the Bernice Pauahi Bishop Museum in Honolulu, where he took particular interest in the museum's preparation of a \"Manual of the Flowering Plants of Hawaii\".\n\nEdward Chester Creutz was born on January 23, 1913, in Beaver Dam, Wisconsin, the son of Lester Creutz, a high school history teacher, and Grace Smith Creutz, a general science teacher. He had two older brothers, John and Jim, and a younger sister, Edith. The family moved to Eau Claire, Wisconsin, in 1916, Monroe, Wisconsin, in 1920, and to Janesville, Wisconsin, in 1927. He played a number of musical instruments, including the mandolin, ukulele and trombone. He played in the school bands at Janesville High School and Monroe High School. At Janesville he played tenor banjo in a dance orchestra called Rosie's Ragadors, and timpani with the school orchestra at Monroe. He also played left guard on the American football teams at Janesville and Monroe. He expressed an interest in chemistry, biology, geology and photography.\n\nAfter graduating from Janesville High School in 1929, he took a job as a bookkeeper at a local bank. In 1932, his brother John, who had graduated from the University of Wisconsin–Madison with a degree in electrical engineering, persuaded him to go to college as well. John suggested that \"if you aren’t sure what part of science you want, take physics, because that's basic to all of them.\" Creutz later recalled that this was the best advice he ever got. He entered the University of Wisconsin and studied mathematics and physics. Money was scarce during the Great Depression, especially after his father died in 1935. To pay his bills, Creutz worked as a dishwasher and short order cook, and took a job taking care of the physics laboratory equipment. In 1936, his senior year, he taught physics laboratory classes.\n\nCreutz encountered several members of the faculty at the University of Wisconsin, including Julian Mack, Ragnar Rollefson, Raymond Herb, Eugene Wigner and Gregory Breit. Mack gave Creutz a research project to do in his junior year. Creutz remained at Wisconsin as a graduate student after receiving his Bachelor of Science (B.S.) degree in 1936, working for Herb upgrading the departmental Van de Graaff generator from 300 to 600 keV. With this done, the question became what to do with it, and Breit suggested that it had previously been observed that high-energy gamma rays were produced when lithium was bombarded with protons at 440 keV. Creutz therefore wrote his 1939 Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) thesis on \"Resonance Scattering of Protons by Lithium\", under Breit's supervision. Creutz married Lela Rollefson, a mathematics student at Wisconsin, and the sister of Ragnar Rollefson, on September 13, 1937. The couple had three children, two sons, Michael and Carl, and a daughter, Ann Jo.\n\nWigner moved to Princeton University in 1938, and soon after Creutz received an offer as well. Princeton had been given a magnet by the University of California, which had been used to build an 8 MeV cyclotron. They wanted Creutz to help get it operational. He later recalled:\nBut it was Bohr who electrified the audience with his news from Europe of the discovery by Lise Meitner and Otto Frisch of nuclear fission. Physicists rushed to confirm the results. Creutz built an ionization chamber and a linear amplifier out of radio vacuum tubes, coffee cans and motorcycle batteries, and with this apparatus the physicists at Princeton were able to confirm the results.\n\nIn the early years of World War II between 1939 and 1941, Wigner led the Princeton group in a series of experiments involving uranium and two tons of graphite as a neutron moderator. In early 1942, Arthur Compton concentrated the Manhattan Project's various teams working on plutonium and nuclear reactor design, including Wigner's team from Princeton, at the Metallurgical Laboratory at the University of Chicago. The name was a codename; Creutz was the first to conduct actual metallurgy research, and he hired its first metallurgist to work with him.\n\nWigner led the Theoretical Group that included Creutz, Leo Ohlinger, Alvin M. Weinberg, Katharine Way and Gale Young. The group's task was to design the reactors that would convert uranium into plutonium. At the time, reactors existed only on paper, and no reactor had yet gone critical. In July 1942, Wigner chose a conservative 100 MW design, with a graphite neutron moderator and water cooling. The choice of water as a coolant was controversial at the time because water was known to absorb neutrons, thereby reducing the efficiency of the reactor; but Wigner was confident that his group's calculations were correct and that water would work, while the technical difficulties involved in using helium or liquid metal as a coolant would delay the project. Working seven days a week, the group designed the reactors between September 1942 and January 1943. Creutz studied the corrosion of metals in a water-cooled system, and designed the cooling system. In 1959 a patent for the reactor design would be issued in the name of Creutz, Ohlinger, Weinberg, Wigner, and Young.\n\nAs a group leader at the Metallurgical Laboratory, Creutz conducted studies of uranium and how it could be extruded into rods. His group looked into the process of corrosion in metals in contact with fast-flowing liquids, the processes for fabricating aluminium and jacketing uranium with it. It also investigated the forging of beryllium, and the preparation of thorium. Frederick Seitz and Alvin Weinberg later reckoned that the activities of Creutz and his group may have reduced the time taken to produce plutonium by up to two years.\n\nThe discovery of spontaneous fission in reactor-bred plutonium due to contamination by plutonium-240 led Wigner to propose switching to breeding uranium-233 from thorium, but the challenge was met by the Los Alamos Laboratory developing an implosion-type nuclear weapon design. In October 1944, Creutz moved to Los Alamos, where he became a group leader responsible for explosive lens design verification and preliminary testing. Difficulties encountered in testing the lenses led to the construction of a special test area in Pajarito Canyon, and Creutz became responsible for testing there. As part of the preparation for the Trinity nuclear test, Creutz conducted a test detonation at Pajarito Canyon without nuclear material. This test brought bad news; it seemed to indicate that the Trinity test would fail. Hans Bethe worked through the night to assess the results, and was able to report that the results were consistent with a perfect explosion.\n\nAfter the war ended in 1945, Creutz accepted an offer from Seitz to come to the Carnegie Institute of Technology as an associate professor, and help create a nuclear physics group there. Creutz in turn recruited a number of young physicists who had worked with him at Princeton and on the Manhattan Project in Chicago and Los Alamos, including Martyn Foss, Jack Fox, Roger Sutton and Sergio DeBenedetti. Together, with funding from the Office of Naval Research they built a 450 MeV synchrotron at the Nuclear Research Center near Saxonburg, Pennsylvania. For a time, This put them at the forefront of research into nuclear physics, allowing physicists there to study the recently discovered pi meson and mu meson. A visiting scholar, Gilberto Bernardini, created the first photographic emulsion of a meson.\n\nCreutz became a professor, the head of the Physics Department, and the head of Nuclear Research Center at the Carnegie Institute of Technology in 1948. He was also a member of the Executive Board at the Argonne National Laboratory from 1946 to 1958, and a consultant at the Oak Ridge National Laboratory from 1946 to 1958. In addition to his work on nuclear physics, he cultivated flowers and orchids at his home. He published eight papers on floral species, and named three varieties of violets after his children. One 1966 paper, published in the \"New York Botanical Garden Journal\" was on \"Apetahia raiateensis\", a rare flower found only on the island of Raiatea in French Polynesia. He travelled to Polynesia many times, and translated \"Grammar of the Tahitian language\" from French into English. His family served as hosts for a time to two young people from Tahiti and Samoa.\n\nIn 1955 and 1956, Creutz spent a year at Los Alamos evaluating its thermonuclear fusion program for the Atomic Energy Commission. While there he was approached by Frederic de Hoffmann, who recruited him to join the General Atomics division of General Dynamics. He moved to La Jolla, California, as its Vice President for Research and Development, and was concurrently the Director of its John Jay Hopkins Laboratory for Pure and Applied Science from 1955 to 1967. He was also a member of the Advisory Panel on General Science at the Department of Defense from 1959 to 1963.\nUnder his leadership, General Atomics developed TRIGA, a small reactor for universities and laboratories. TRIGA used uranium zirconium hydride (UZrH) fuel, which has a large, prompt negative fuel temperature coefficient of reactivity. As the temperature of the core increases, the reactivity rapidly decreases. It is thus highly unlikely, though not completely impossible, for a nuclear meltdown to occur. Due to its safety and reliability, which allows it to be installed in densely populated areas, and its ability to still generate high energy for brief periods, which is particularly useful for research, it became the world's most popular research reactor, and General Atomics sold 66 TRIGAs in 24 countries. The high-temperature gas-cooled reactor (HTGR) was less successful, and only two HTGR power reactors were built, both in the United States. A 40 MW demonstration unit at the Peach Bottom Nuclear Generating Station in Pennsylvania operated successfully, but a larger 300 MW unit at the Fort St. Vrain Generating Station in Colorado encountered technical problems. General Atomics also conducted research into thermonuclear energy, including means of magnetically confining plasma. Between 1962 and 1974 Creutz published six papers on the subject.\n\nIn 1970 President Richard Nixon appointed Creutz as Assistant Director for Research of the National Science Foundation. He became Assistant Director for Mathematical and Physicals Sciences in 1975, and was acting Deputy Director from 1976 to 1977. The 1970s energy crisis raised the national profile of energy issues, and Creutz served on a panel that produced a study called \"The Nation's Energy Future\". His wife Lela died of cancer in 1972. In 1974 he married Elisabeth Cordle, who worked for the National Science Board. The two of them enjoyed locating and photographing rare orchids.\n\nHis appointment at the National Science Foundation ended in 1977, and Creutz became director of the Bernice Pauahi Bishop Museum in Honolulu. He took particular interest in the museum's work preparing a two-volume \"Manual of the Flowering Plants of Hawaii\", which was published in 1999. He expanded programs for education and outreach, and secured funding for two new buildings. He retired in 1987 and returned to his home in Rancho Santa Fe, California, and died there on June 27, 2009.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3781602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3781602", "title": "Edward Scheidt", "text": "Edward Scheidt\n\nEdward Michael Scheidt is a retired Chairman of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) Cryptographic Center and the designer of the cryptographic systems used in the \"Kryptos\" sculpture at CIA Headquarters in Langley, Virginia.\n\nScheidt was born July 20, 1939 in Santa Monica, California United States. His father, Edward F. Scheidt, worked for the FBI and held the position of Director of the New York City FBI Field Office, and his mother was a switchboard operator at AT&T. He graduated in 1957 from Cor Jesu High School in New Orleans and then joined the Army, where he worked in Signals Intelligence.\n\nIn 1963, he was hired as a communications officer for the CIA, in the Office of Communications, which began a 26-year career, retiring in December 1989. Scheidt spent 12 years posted overseas, including serving in Laos in the early 1960s, Lebanon in the late 1960s, and a tour in Southeast Asia. Most often he used one-time pad paper systems of encryption. Scheidt received a B.A. in business administration from the University of Maryland in 1970 and a degree in telecommunications from George Washington University in 1975.\n\nScheidt is best known for his involvement with \"Kryptos\", a sculpture in the CIA courtyard which contains one of the world's most famous unsolved codes. \"Kryptos\" was created by Washington DC sculptor Jim Sanborn, who was commissioned by the CIA in the 1980s to create art around their new Headquarters building in 1988. After Sanborn decided he wanted to incorporate some encrypted messages in his artwork, he was teamed with Scheidt, who was in the process of retiring and was called by then-director William H. Webster \"The Wizard of Codes\". Up until that point, Sanborn had never used encryption or text in his work. Scheidt taught various encryption methods to Sanborn, who chose the exact messages to be encrypted. Of the messages on the sculpture, three have been solved, but the fourth section, 97 or 98 characters at the very bottom, remains uncracked. Scheidt has said that he knows the answer, along with Sanborn and \"probably someone at the CIA.\"\n\nIn the early 1990s, Scheidt noted that encryption, which originated for primarily one-to-one communications, now faced new and substantially different key management requirements in large network or virtual network environments. It was into this technologically dynamic environment that Ed co-founded TecSec Inc., a software encryption company in 1990 in Vienna, Virginia, where as of 2011 he works as Chief Scientist.\n\nOne of their first ventures was to manufacture portable satellite versions of the secure STU-III telephones used by the government. Scheidt manufactured the first model in his home basement workshop, and approximately 500 were in use worldwide by the United States Foreign Service as of 2002. The company also set out to create an encryption design with its key management that could be cited in standards or use components of standards.\n\nIn forming TecSec and building the company's large IP library, he anticipated the flexibility and mobility required of 21st Century communication systems with a key management system that is primarily client-based and much less dependent upon a central server. The relative scalability achieved by this approach, together with encryption at the object level, provides enforced role based access and granularity not otherwise available. Ed remains deeply involved in the company's product development and expanding application solutions, just as he is in general management.\n\nIn February 2010 TecSec filed a lawsuit against several large tech vendors claiming infringement of several patents covering encryption technology.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23574953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23574953", "title": "Francisco Massinga", "text": "Francisco Massinga\n\nFrancisco Massinga (born 6 May 1986), better known as Whiskey, is a Mozambican football defender.\n\n"}
{"id": "13006578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13006578", "title": "Georges Frederic Roskopf", "text": "Georges Frederic Roskopf\n\nGeorges Frederic Roskopf (15 March 1813 – 14 April 1889), the inventor of the pin-pallet escapement, was born in Germany and became a naturalized Swiss citizen.\n\nIn 1829, when Roskopf was 16, he went to La Chaux-de-Fonds and began training in commerce with F. Mairet & Sandoz, who dealt in ironmongery and watch parts. In 1833 he decided to become a watchmaker and went as an apprentice to J. Biber, in La Chaux-de-Fonds, to learn watchmaking.\n\nFinanced by his wife, he then set up in business as an établisseur, that is, a watch producer who bought the ebauche and all other parts of the watch and assembled them. He made cylinder and lever watches for export to North America and Belgium. Although the watches were well made, the business was not profitable and in 1850 Roskopf sold it. In 1851 Roskopf became the joint manager of the La Chaux-de-Fonds branch of B. J. Guttman Frères of Wurzburg. They manufactured English-type watches. In 1855 he set up in business with his son, Fritz Edouard, and Henri Gindraux as \"ROSKOPF, GINDRAUX & CO.\" After two years his son opened his own business in Geneva and Gindraux went to Neuchâtel to become the Director of the Watchmaking School.\n\nRoskopf was an idealist who dreamed of making a good quality, cheap watch for working men. To accomplish this he used an old idea and reworked it, that of having the hands driven directly by the mainspring. In 1860 he began to design such a watch, which could be sold for 20 francs, and would still be of excellent quality, simple and solid. The watch had a large barrel in the center. a \"Perron\" pin-pallet escapement, and a monometallic balance. After discussions with Moritz J. Grossman he adopted the simple detached pin lever escapement.\n\nListing of the features for the new caliber:\n\n\nRoskopf met indifference and hostility among the watchmakers of the area who were still working as a home industry and who did not wish to make a watch such as he was offering. It is said, that in 1866 Roskopf ordered two boxes of ebauches from Emile Roulet and asked Gustave Rosselet to make escapements; both refused to take his orders because of the novelty of the work. He finally succeeded in producing a watch in 1867, using ebauches and cases from the Malleray Watch Co., and parts from many other makers, and having them assembled in Damprichard, Doubs, France, by M. Chatelain. The original order to Malleray Watch Co., was 2000 pieces. By the end of 1867 he was in business and by 1870 he had ordered 20,000 ebauches.\n\nRoskopf was granted US patent No. 75,463 10 Mar. 1868, for a changeable escapement for watches (this patent said that the escapement could be adapted for use with a cylinder or lever as well as a pin pallet). Roskopf patented his watch in France with French patent No. 80611 of 25 Mar. 1868 for a watch with a type of platform escapement. He patented his designs in several countries (Belgium, No. 21988, 3 Aug. 1867) but never in Switzerland, because Switzerland did not yet have a patenting system, and because the idea had been used there before his use of it.\n\nThrough the influence of the House of Breguet in Paris, Roskopf was able to present his watch at the Universal Exhibition in Paris in 1868 and won a Bronze Medal. From then on Breguet began to send him orders. Some movements were supplied to Borel & Courvoisier. Other orders poured in. The Roskopf watch was exhibited at the Amsterdam Exhibition in 1869 and won a Silver Medal. In 1870 Georges Roskopf introduced a second design with a setting mechanism; this watch cost 25 francs. In it he reduced the number of parts, simplified the escapement fitting, and introduced an improved winding. The escapement was assembled on its own adjustable platform. The watch was SW and pin-set. In his oversize barrel he arranged to use Adrien Philippe’s (Patek,Philippe) patent free mainspring without stop works for which he paid a royalty on each watch.\n\nIn 1873 Roskopf handed over his business to Wille Frères and their associates, Ch. Léon Schmid.\n\nWhen Roskopf died in 1889 a number of firms claimed to be his true successors. But Wille Frères actually owned the rights on the company. Actually, Wille Frères and Vve Ch. L. Schmid had been using Roskopf trade mark for years before G. F. Roskopf’s death, with his permission.\n\nBy this time the idea of the Roskopf-type watch was becoming popular in Switzerland and a number of Swiss companies began making \"Roskopf\" watches. In order to be really cheap, the watches had to be machine mass manufactured as much as possible. These watches had pin-pallet escapements rather than platform escapements.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29053695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29053695", "title": "Guido Guerrini", "text": "Guido Guerrini\n\nGuido Guerrini (born 12 January 1976 in Arezzo, Italy) is an Italian rally driver and co-driver. In 2016 and 2017 he won the FIA Alternative Energies Cup in the co-drivers' category. Before that, he collected five second places, in 2015 as a co-driver and from 2011 to 2014 as a driver. Since 2016 he is based in Kazan, Russian Federation.\n\nGuerrini debuted as a driver in the FIA Alternative Energies Cup, reserved for hybrid and endothermic vehicles, in 2009, together with co-driver Andrea Gnaldi Coleschi. In 2010, Guerrini obtained 3rd place in the Italian championship standings and 5th place in the world championship won by the French driver Raymond Durand.\n\nThe following year, together with co-driver Emanuele Calchetti on an Alfa Romeo MiTo, he finished second both in the world and in the Italian championships, won by Massimo Liverani, and repeated the same result in 2012 and in 2013, when with Emanuele Calchetti he won the Hi-Tech Ecomobility Rally in Athens. In 2014, together with Isabelle Barciulli, Guerrini gained another second place in the World Cup and third place in the Italian championship.\n\nIn the 2015 season Guerrini took part in the championships as a co-driver, together with driver Nicola Ventura on an Abarth 500, finishing at second place in the world championship after Thierry Benchetrit and winning the Italian championship ex-aequo with Valeria Strada..\n\nIn the 2016 season Ventura and Guerrini on a Renault Zoe passed to the category reserved for purely electric cars and they won the World Cup. In 2017 Guerrini won the FIA Electric and New Energies Championship, which joined both the previous hybrid and purely electric categories.\n\nGuido Guerrini is also a car traveler, the first person to go from Europe to China covering the whole route by a gas-fuelled car.\n\nThe project, called \"Torino-Pechino, la macchina della pace\" (\"Turin-Beijing, the peace machine\"), was organized in 2008: overall, Guerrini and Andrea Gnaldi Coleschi (born 27 October 1978 in Arezzo, Italy), covered using a 1999 Fiat Marea 1.6 16V from the seat of the 2006 Winter Olympics (in Turin) to the seat of the 2008 Summer Olympics (in Beijing) and returning to Italy. The trip started on 6 July 2008 and passed through 17 countries to finish on 21 September 2008, and used LPG for fuel for 95% of the journey. The project is described in the 2008 book \"Aregolavanti\" (\"Always Forward\").\n\nIn winter 2011, together with Emanuele Calchetti, he traveled from Rome to Volgograd with a gas-fuelled Gonow pick-up, crossing Eastern Europe, Moldova, Transnistria, and Ukraine. This experience originated the travel book \"Via Stalingrado\" (\"Stalingrad Street\", 2011).\n\nAmong his many other car travels, Guerrini reached the extremes of Europe (North Cape, Istanbul, Gibraltar), and completed an expedition to the Caspian Sea through the Caucasian republics in 2010, another travel to Volgograd in December 2013 and January 2014 on an Iveco Daily with a mixed system methane-diesel, the Arezzo-Chernobyl on a methane-propelled Peugeot Expert in the following winter and the Milan-Astana on an LPG Seat Altea in 2016..\n\nIn june 2018 he started a new \"Turin-Beijing\" project on a diesel-methane propelled Toyota Hilux.\n\n"}
{"id": "4096053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4096053", "title": "Heaven on Earth (duo)", "text": "Heaven on Earth (duo)\n\nHeaven on Earth are a husband and wife duo formed in England in 1983 by members Joe Ortiz (from New York City) and Pauly Ortiz (from Essex, England).\n\nAs a session and touring musician completing a European tour with the chart reggae group 'Inner Circle' Joe met Pauline Moore - a self styled singer-songwriter from Essex, England. Pauline commissioned Joe's multi-instrumental and vocal talents for her first album, titled \"Lady's Fire\". She was then professionally known as Jo Anna Forte, and signed to Eagle Records UK. This album was also released on CBS Europe.\n\nIn 1984, they had a son, Paul Ortiz, also a musician and composer/producer known throughout the internet as Chimp Spanner. In 1987, Joe and Pauly were signed to Atlantic Records for whom they recorded and released the LP and CD titled \"Dedication\". In the same year, they entered their song \"Love Come Down\" which came in the final eight for the UK entries.\n\nThey have also composed and produced popular television signature themes for such programmes as \"Heirloom\", \"Animals in Action\" and \"Jumble\". Today they manage their own multimedia business providing products and services to end users as well as the industry. They still continue to compose and record new material and have completed enough music to fill approximately seventy albums. It includes instrumentals.\n\n"}
{"id": "40741545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40741545", "title": "Hedwig Anuar", "text": "Hedwig Anuar\n\nHedwig Anuar was the first Singaporean Director of the National Library in 1960. As a librarian and an administrator, she was responsible for many of the foundations of the modern library system in Singapore. Until her retirement in 1990, the National Library made considerable developments, growing from one library to nine and a change in membership from 43,000 to 333,000. As an administrator, she began several important library projects for children and youth in Malaysia and worked extensively with the media to promote these and other services. Hedwig also contributed to the creation of the library infrastructure used throughout Southeast Asia. She was awarded the Public Administration Medal and is a founding member of the Association of Women for Action and Research(AWARE).\n\n"}
{"id": "18758369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18758369", "title": "Helen Turley", "text": "Helen Turley\n\nHelen Turley is a pioneering American winemaker and wine consultant. She is known for bringing several Californian cult wines to the public awareness, and as the owner of a boutique winery, Marcassin Vineyard. She is the recipient of several prestigious American wine awards, to include Wine Spectator's Distinguished Service Award and Food & Wine's Achievement Winemaker of the Year.\n\nTurley has mentored many California wine consultants, such as Mark Aubert, Philippe Melka, and Heidi Barrett. In addition to consulting for wineries such as Pahlmeyer, Bryant Family Vineyard, Colgin, Martinelli and Blankiet, until 1995, she was the winemaker for Turley Wine Cellars.\n\nTurley graduated from Cornell's agricultural school in the 1970s, and moved to the Napa Valley, landing at Robert Mondavi's lab. By 1984 she had her first job as a winemaker but began thinking differently about winemaking when she made two barrels of wine using wild yeast in 1989.\n\nDuring her career, Turley evangelized a variety of winemaking methods that were unique for their time. She was one of the first winemakers in California to use cold soaks and to focus on harvesting phenolically ripe fruit to as to make the wine as natural as possible.\n\nDuring the 1990s, Turley helped usher in the era of the superconsultant in California, taking startups such as Peter Michael, Colgin and Bryant Family to fame as her winegrowing regime pushed wine quality to new heights. She gained renown helping many small wineries make exceptional wine. \"Don't get in the way of the wine,\" Turley drilled in her pupils and mentees; \"If you've got the right vineyard—the right grapes—you can make great wine.\"\n\nAt one point, Turley simultaneously made wines for Colgin, Bryant, Turley, Martinelli, Pahlmeyer, Green & Red, Harrison, La Jota, Landmark and Canepa, as well her and husband John Wetlaufer’s own label, Marcassin. Some of her early triumphs came with the Napa Valley Cabernets of Bryant and Colgin, which shared her signature style of bold and extracted flavors underscored by finesse, polish and refinement. Turley is also credited with helping raise the quality of Chardonnay in both Napa and Sonoma. With Marcassin, and the wines she made for Martinelli, Turley was instrumental in putting Sonoma Coast on the map.\n\nIn 2001, the Roy Estate hired Turley and her husband, John Wetlaufer, to design their Napa Valley vineyard and for Turley to serve as consulting winemaker. After making Roy Estate's 2003 & 2004 vintages, Turley canceled the arrangement in March 2005. The following September, the owners of Roy Estate filed a lawsuit against Turley and Wetlaufer alleging breach of contract. The lawsuit was eventually settled out of court in May 2006.\n\n"}
{"id": "25483007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25483007", "title": "Igbo name", "text": "Igbo name\n\nIgbo names are traditionally and historically constructed in a fashion similar to Arabic naming convention & old European naming. In this convention there are no family names, instead one is known through their immediate male lineage.\n\nIn the olden days, Igbos - and especially the women - were named after the four market days (eke, orie, afor, and nkwo) in Igboland. Examples: Mgboafor, Mgbori, Nwanyinkwo, Mgbeke, Nkwoja, and Ugweke.\n\nIn the Igbo naming convention a child is given a name at birth referencing an event surrounding the birth, a deceased ancestor, or the time and/or place of birth. This is the name they will primarily be known by. To differentiate from others in the same generation with the same name a person will also give their father's first name. The first Westerners to communicate with the Igbo often confused this for a surname (family name), however, unlike a surname, it is not passed on to the next generation as a \"second name\".\n\nThis system extended even into marriage. Unlike in some Western countries, the woman does not always change her name. In the event that she did, it would be to her husband's first name.\n\nIn the example above, the progenitors, \"Onodugo\" and \"Nkechi\", may be differentiated from others in their generation by his and her father's name. For ex. \"Onodugo\" and \"Nkechi\" have fathers with first names \"Okonkwo\" and \"Agu\" respectively. They are the father and mother of a daughter, and son who are each married. \"The son and daughter each had a child. The first who had a child would name their child Ezenwa. The next sibling to have a child would almost always give their child a different first name. It is against custom to name a child after a living family member, especially one in the same or previous generation. Ezenwa and his cousin would each get their fathers first name for their last.\" After marriage, Nkechi, Adanna and Oluchi are known either by their fathers' or husbands' first names.\n\nIn the beginning and middle of the 20th century, after the spread of Christianity this method was almost completely dropped in favor of adopting the grandfather's name (father's \"last name\") as a surname. In many cases, either an English name or the father's first name becomes the child's middle name.\n"}
{"id": "24734068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24734068", "title": "Irenäus Eibl-Eibesfeldt", "text": "Irenäus Eibl-Eibesfeldt\n\nIrenäus Eibl-Eibesfeldt (15 June 1928 – 2 June 2018) was an Austrian ethnologist in the field of human ethology. In authoring the book which bears that title, he applied ethology to humans by studying them in a perspective more common to volumes studying animal behavior.\n\nBorn in Vienna, Austria, Eibl-Eibesfeldt studied zoology at the University of Vienna from 1945 to 1949. From 1946 to 1948 he was research associate at the Biological Station Wilhelminenberg near Vienna and became research associate of the Institute for Comparative Behavior Studies in Altenberg near Vienna with Konrad Lorenz in 1949. Between 1951 and 1969 he worked at the Max Planck Institute for Behavioral Physiology (first in Westphalia, from 1957 at Seewiesen, Bavaria). In 1970 he became Professor for Zoology at the University of Munich. Since 1975 he has been the head of the Max Planck Institute for Behavioral Physiology, Department of Human Ethology in Andechs, Germany. He was the co-founder and first president of the International Society for Human Ethology. Since 1992 he has been Honorary Director of the Ludwig-Boltzmann-Institute for Urban Ethology in Vienna.\n\nIn the first twenty years of his work as an animal ethologist, he investigated experimentally and descriptively the development of behavior of mammals and compared the behavior of communication of vertebrates. He is the author of many books such as \"\" and \"Human Ethology\".\n\nHe married Eleonore Eibl-Eibesfeldt in 1950. They had two children, Bernolf and Roswitha.\n\nEibl-Eibesfeldt died on 2 June 2018 in Starnberg, two weeks before his 90th birthday.\n\nFor many years he dived with Hans Hass on his diving boat \"Xarifa\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4649101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4649101", "title": "John G. Fuller", "text": "John G. Fuller\n\nJohn Grant Fuller, Jr. (November 30, 1913 – November 7, 1990) was a New England-based American author of several non-fiction books and newspaper articles, mainly focusing on the theme of extra-terrestrials and the supernatural. For many years he wrote a regular column for the \"Saturday Review\" magazine, called \"Trade Winds\". His books include \"We Almost Lost Detroit\", \"The Ghost of Flight 401\", \"Incident at Exeter\", and \"The Interrupted Journey\".\n\n\"Incident at Exeter\" (1966) concerned a series of well-publicized unidentified flying object (UFO) sightings in and around the town of Exeter, New Hampshire in the fall of 1965 (see the Exeter incident). Fuller personally investigated the sightings and interviewed many of the eyewitnesses; he also claimed to have seen a UFO himself during his investigation.\n\n\"The Interrupted Journey: Two Lost Hours \"Aboard a Flying Saucer\"\" (1966) tells the story of the Barney and Betty Hill abduction. The Hills were a married couple who claimed to have been abducted in 1961 by the occupants of a UFO in the White Mountains of New Hampshire while returning home from a vacation. The book was the first to seriously claim that competent, reliable witnesses were being abducted by UFOs for medical and scientific experiments. The book remains one of the most influential in UFO history, and has been hotly debated since its publication. Like \"The Ghost of Flight 401\", \"The Interrupted Journey\" was also turned into a made-for-television movie in 1975.\n\n\"Aliens in the Skies\" (1969) is based on transcripts from the July 29, 1968 Congressional Hearing Before the House Committee on Science and Astronautics where experts such as Carl Sagan and J. Allen Hynek testified on the possibility of UFOs.\n\nFuller wrote \"The Great Soul Trial\" (1969) about the disappearance of Arizona Miner James Kidd and the later trial regarding his will, which left his fortune to anyone who could prove the existence of the human soul. The book was published prior to the final resolution of the case in 1971.\n\n\"Arigo: Surgeon of the Rusty Knife\" (1974) was about the life and purported supernatural healing powers of a psychic surgeon in Brazil. A poor review in The New York Review of Books led to a public disagreement between Mr. Fuller and the reviewer, Martin Gardner. Gardner protesting Crowell-Collier's publishing of Fuller's book \"Arigo\" withdrew publication of his own (Gardner) book.\nHis book \"We Almost Lost Detroit\" (1975) deals with a serious accident at the Fermi nuclear power plant near Detroit. The book title was later the title of a song by Gil Scott-Heron on the \"No Nukes\" live album recorded by the Musicians United for Safe Energy.\n\n\"The Ghost of Flight 401\" (1976) was based on the tragic Eastern Air Lines Flight 401 airplane crash in December 1972, and the alleged supernatural events which followed; it was eventually turned into a popular 1978 made-for-television movie.\n\n\"Are The Kids All Right?\" (1981) focused on The Who concert disaster at Riverfront Coliseum in Cincinnati on December 3, 1979. Fuller suggested that hard rock music's hypnotic rhythms mean the music \"ignites and is responsible for unprecedented and potentially disastrous concert violence on a regular and continuing basis\".\n\nHe wrote two plays — \"The Pink Elephant\", which opened in 1953, and \"Love Me Little\", which opened in 1958, both on Broadway.\n\n\"The Poison That Fell From the Sky\" (1977) is about dioxin poisoning following a chemical plant disaster in Seveso, Italy. In reviewing Fuller's book, Jeff Greenfield, reviewer for \"The New York Times\", commented that Fuller was known for \"raising the most unsettling of questions\"; Fuller was also known for his ability to obtain and use government documents in his investigations.\n\nFuller was married to a Northwest Airlines flight attendant who was the researcher mentioned in his book \"Ghost of Flight 401\".\n\nFuller died of lung cancer in 1990.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54900654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54900654", "title": "John R. Sheehy", "text": "John R. Sheehy\n\nJohn R. Sheehy (July 30, 1947) was a Democratic member of the Illinois House of Representatives for a single term from 1993 to 1995. He represented the 37th district, which was located in Chicago's south suburbs. Born in Chicago, Illinois. Sheehy attended Moraine Valley Community College and graduated from Worsham College of Mortuary Science. After graduating from Worsham, he went to work for his father at Sheehy Funeral Homes. He is a veteran of the Vietnam War. In 1992, Sheehy faced Carl James Vandenberg, who defeated fellow Republican and appointed incumbent Manny Hoffman of Homewood. Sheehy won the Republican leaning district by 239 votes. While a member of the Illinois House, he served on the following committees; Aging; Appropriations-Human Services; Elections & State Government; Elementary & Secondary Education; Registration & Regulation. He was defeated for reelection by Ed Zabrocki, the Mayor of Tinley Park, Illinois, by 539 votes.\n"}
{"id": "44692931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44692931", "title": "Jonah Wittkamper", "text": "Jonah Wittkamper\n\nJonah Wittkamper is a biologist, entrepreneur, and activist. He is the Co-Founder and President of the Nexus Global Youth Summit, a movement to bridge communities of wealth and social entrepreneurship. He is also the Founder of the Healthy Democracy Coalition, a network of philanthropists dedicated to bridging political divides. He works to unite young social and philanthropic leaders to influence the public sector, including the United Nations, the White House and the United States Congress. Earlier in his career, he co-founded the Global Youth Action Network, a global association of youth organizations that merged with TakingITGlobal and grew to become one of the largest communities of young social change leaders on the internet. In 2007 he joined Distributive Networks and helped to build the text messaging technology of the 2008 Obama campaign. He has worked as the United States Director of Search for Common Ground and is the founder and owner of EZinTouch.com, a contact management platform. He is an alumnus of Williams College and Camp Rising Sun.\n\nJonah Wittkamper is a grandson of Will Wittkamper, a former steward of Koinonia Farm, the inter-racial Christian intentional community in Americus, Georgia, that inspired the creation of Habitat for Humanity. The Wittkamper family is profiled in the book Class of 65.\n"}
{"id": "57315315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57315315", "title": "Julien Kialunda", "text": "Julien Kialunda\n\nJulien Kialunda (born 24 April 1940–14 September 1987) was a Congolese international footballer. He was one of the first Congolese footballers to play professionally in Europe. He represented Zaire at the 1972 African Cup of Nations.\n\nKialunda played for Union Saint-Gilloise, RSC Anderlecht and Léopold FC in Belgium. He was a four time Belgian league champion with Anderlecht. \n\nKialunda represented Zaire at the 1972 African Cup of Nations in Cameroon, where he started in all of his team's five matches as Zaire finished fourth.\n\nAfter his retirement, Kialunda was national coach of the Zaire national team, without much success. He also owned a cafe for a while in the Brussels neighborhood of Matonge, known for its predominantly African population. In 1987, sick with AIDS, he decided to return to Belgium to be treated and die there. He died on 14 September the same year.\n\nA charity is founded in his memory, the \"Julien Kialunda Foundation\", that is engaged in worthy causes in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. It is sponsored by professional players of African origin playing or having grew up in Belgium, like the brothers Mbo and Émile Mpenza, Mohammed Tchité and Anthony Vanden Borre.\n"}
{"id": "26390316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26390316", "title": "Khal Drogo", "text": "Khal Drogo\n\nKhal Drogo is a fictional character in the \"A Song of Ice and Fire\" series of fantasy novels by American author George R. R. Martin and in the first two seasons of its television adaptation, \"Game of Thrones\".\n\nIntroduced in 1996's \"A Game of Thrones\", Drogo is a \"khal\", a leader of the Dothraki, a tribe of warriors who roam the continent of Essos.\n\nDrogo is portrayed by Jason Momoa in the HBO television adaptation.\n\nDrogo is a powerful \"khal\", or warlord, of the Dothraki people, a tribal nation of horse riders in the steppes beyond the Free Cities. He is an accomplished warrior and has never been defeated in battle.\n\nIn \"A Game of Thrones\", Viserys Targaryen and Illyrio Mopatis marry Daenerys Targaryen to \"Khal\" Drogo to get his support and warriors for the invasion of Westeros. He proves a kind, sensitive, and loving husband. After there is a failed attempt on Daenerys's life, he vows to invade Westeros, but is wounded in a subsequent battle. He begins developing a severe case of sepsis. Daenerys unwittingly sacrifices their unborn son to save him with blood magic. While this saves his life, he is left in a catatonic state. Daenerys smothers him with a pillow. At his funeral pyre, she walks with her dragon eggs into the flames and emerges unscathed with three baby dragons. He is the namesake of her favorite dragon, Drogon.\n\n\"Khal\" Drogo is not a point of view character in the novels, so his actions are witnessed and interpreted through the eyes of Daenerys Targaryen.\n\nKhal Drogo is played by Jason Momoa in the television adaptation of the series of books. At his audition for the part of Drogo he performed the \"Ka Mate\" haka. Momoa related his experience in reading for the role:\n\nWhen I read that \"Khal\" Drogo role, I was blown away. I couldn't believe it was happening, I had to have that role. I was like, \"Nobody is going to take that role from me.\" ... People say it's easy [to play the role]—\"You're just sitting there!\" But it's extremely hard to be extremely intimidating, and say everything but not say anything.\n\nRemarking on the character's early exit:\n\nI was reading it and I was like: \"Holy shit! Fuck, I'm dead!\" ... It's amazing what [George R. R. Martin] sets up. Here's your lead characters, you're supposed to think about them one way, and you hate them, then you love them, and then they're killed and it's a whirlwind of emotion. All the little kids and even the smallest of characters just grow and grow and grow. He built a beautiful world. I'm bummed I'm not going back. To play \"Khal\" Drogo was phenomenal and I wished there was more stuff he could have done, I'm going to miss that character.\n\nKhal Drogo is a warlord of the Dothraki people. He is to marry Daenerys Targaryen, as arranged by her brother Viserys. He is undefeated in battle. Viserys Targaryen conspired with Magister Illyrio to marry Daenerys to Drogo in order to get his support in an invasion of Westeros. Though Daenerys was initially unhappy with the arrangement, Drogo proves to be a sensitive husband and lover despite his fearsome behavior with his men. After a failed poisoning attempt on a pregnant Daenerys' life, he promises to invade Westeros to reclaim the Seven Kingdoms as a gift to his unborn son, but is wounded by one of his men, Mago, before he could begin the invasion. The wound festers, owing to ‘treatment’ from a resentful witch enlisted as healer by Daenerys, and Drogo becomes so sick that he is unable to ride his horse, a sign of weakness to the Dothraki. Most of his khalasar abandons him, but Daenerys unknowingly sacrifices their unborn child for a spell to revive him. The spell works, but leaves him in a catatonic state. Daenerys smothers him out of pity, and the flames of his funeral pyre ultimately hatch her dragon eggs.\n\nAs Daenerys walks through a stronghold in Qarth, she is struck with visions of places such as a ruined and snowbound Red Keep, and the Haunted Forest. She encounters her deceased husband, Khal Drogo, and their stillborn son Rhaego, both apparently alive and well. Although unsure whether she is dreaming, Daenerys leaves when she hears her dragons.\n\nMomoa received positive reviews for his portrayal of the character, and contributed his own ideas to his portrayal. For example, in one scene, Drogo cements his position as the lead \"khal\" by ripping out the tongue of a dissenter, Mago. The scene was not in the script, but was suggested by Momoa after he made the observation that Drogo, who is said to be a great warrior, had never been shown demonstrating his prowess as a warrior onscreen.\n"}
{"id": "30875319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30875319", "title": "Lotan", "text": "Lotan\n\nLotan (Ugaritic: 𐎍𐎚𐎐\"-ltn\", transliterated \n\"Lôtān\", \"Litan\", or \"Litānu\", meaning \"coiled\") is a servant of the sea god Yam defeated by the storm god Hadad-Baʿal in the Ugaritic \"Baal Cycle\". possibly with the help or by the hand of his sister ʿAnat. \nLotan seems to have been prefigured by the serpent \"Têmtum\" represented in Syrian seals of the 18th–16th century BC, and finds a later reflex in the sea monster \"Leviathan\", whose defeat at the hands of Yahweh is alluded to in the biblical Book of Job and in Isaiah 27:1. \nLambert (2003) went as far as the claim that Isaiah 27:1 is a direct quote lifted from the Ugaritic text, correctly rendering Ugaritic \"bṯn\" \"snake\" as Hebrew \"nḥš\" \"snake\".\n\n\"Lotan\" (\"ltn\") is an adjectival formation meaning \"coiled\", here used as a proper name; the same creature has a number of possible epitheta, including \"the fugitive serpent\" (\"bṯn brḥ\") and maybe (with some uncertainty deriving from manuscript lacunae) \"the wriggling serpent\" (\"bṯn ʿqltn\") and \"the mighty one with seven heads\" (\"šlyṭ d.šbʿt rašm\").\n\nThe myth of Hadad defeating Lotan, Yahweh defeating Leviathan, Marduk defeating Tiamat (etc.) in the mythologies of the Ancient Near East are classical examples of the \"Chaoskampf\" mytheme, also reflected in Zeus' slaying of Typhon in Greek mythology and Thor's struggle against Jörmungandr in the Gylfaginning portion of the Prose Edda.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4412750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4412750", "title": "Madeleine de Verchères", "text": "Madeleine de Verchères\n\nMarie-Madeleine Jarret, known as Madeleine de Verchères ((); 3 March 1678 – 8 August 1747) was a woman of New France (modern Quebec) credited with repelling a raid on Fort Verchères when she was 14 years old.\n\nFrançois Jarret, of Saint-Chef in the department of Isère in France, joined the company of his uncle Antoine Pécaudy de Contrecœur to battle the Iroquois in New France (see Beaver Wars). They arrived there in August 1665, and on 17 September 1669 Jarret married the twelve-year-old Marie Perrot in Île d’Orléans. He was awarded a land grant on the south shore of the Saint Lawrence River on 29 October 1672 in a seigneury called Verchères, and thereafter continued to increase his land holdings. The couple was to have twelve children, the fourth of whom was Marie-Madeleine, born in Verchères on 3 March 1678 and baptised that 17 April.\n\nThe seigneury underwent periodic Iroquois raids. In 1690 the matron of Verchères took command of a successful defense against an Iroquois assault on the stockade there. By 1692 the Iroquois had killed the Jarrets' son François-Michel and two successive husbands of their daughter Marie-Jeanne. Before she performed this courageous act, she usually worked in the family field during her spare time.\n\nIn the late 1600s the Iroquois mounted attacks on the settlers of New France, looting and burning their homes. On 22 October 1692 Madeleine's parents left the fort on business and to gather winter supplies. Madeleine and her brothers and sisters stayed at the fort. Now fourteen, Madeleine was in charge of the fort, with one very old man (Laviolette) and 2 soldiers.\n\nOne morning, some settlers left the fort to tend to the fields along with eight soldiers. Madeleine was in the cabbage garden, quite close to the fort. Suddenly, the Iroquois descended on the settlers. The men, caught off guard, tried to flee to safety. But the Iroquois were too quick for them and they were easily caught and carried off. Madeleine, working only 200 paces from the fort, had a head start on the Iroquois who were chasing her. One Iroquois caught up to her and grabbed her by her kerchief which she quickly untied, then Madeleine ran into the fort shouting, \"Aux armes! Aux armes!\" (To arms)\n\nMadeleine ran to the bastions. She knew there was only one hope. Madeleine fired a musket and encouraged the people to make as much noise as possible so that the Iroquois would think there were many soldiers defending the fort. Then Madeleine fired the cannon to warn other forts of an attack and to call for reinforcements. The Iroquois had hoped a surprise attack would easily take over the fort, so for a moment, they retreated into the bushes with their prisoners.\n\nDuring the siege, Madeleine noticed a canoe approaching the landing site with a family named Fontaine. The soldiers inside the fort refused to leave, so Madeleine ran to the dock and led the family quickly inside, pretending to be reinforcements.\n\nLate in the evening, the settlers' cattle returned to the fort. She knew that the Iroquois could be hiding with the herd covered in animal skins. She had her two brothers wait with her to check the cattle for warriors but none were found and the cows were brought inside the fort.\n\nReinforcements from Montreal arrived just after the Iroquois left. Tired but relieved, Madeleine greeted the French lieutenant, \"Mon seigneur, I surrender to you my arms.\" The reinforcements caught the Iroquois and returned the kidnapped settlers. By this time, Madeleine's parents had returned and news of Madeleine's heroic deed had spread through the colony.\n\nFrançois, Madeleine's father, died on 16 February 1700, and his pension of 1000 livres was transferred to Madeleine due to her leadership in 1692, on the condition that she provide for her mother.\n\nMadeleine managed Verchères until her marriage in September 1706 to Pierre-Thomas Tarieu de La Pérade, who was a lieutenant in the regular troops of New France. He was the son of Thomas de Lanouguère, an administrator of the colony who descended from an old noble family in France. The couple moved to Sainte-Anne-de-la-Pérade, Quebec, where Tarieu was co-seigneur. Madeleine's seigneury at Verchères was transferred to her new husband. The complex land titles led to numerous lawsuits over the course of her life, and Madeleine sailed to France at least three times to represent herself and her husband in court.\n\nMarie-Madeleine died at Sainte-Anne-de-la-Pérade on 8 August 1747 at age 69. She was buried beneath her pew at Sainte-Anne-de-la-Pérade. Pierre-Thomas died 26 January 1757 at age 79.\n\nA statue of Madeleine de Verchères stands on Verchères Point near Montreal. It was made by Louis-Philippe Hébert, who was commissioned for the project in 1911.\n\n\"Madeleine de Verchères\", a J.-Arthur Homier film released 10 December 1922, featured Estelle Bélanger as Madeleine. The Internet Movie Database reports this film as \"lost.\"\n\nThe Canadian government designated her as a Person of National Historic Significance in 1923.\n\n\"Madeleine Takes Command\" (1946) is a historical novel based upon the siege of Verchères, by Ethel C. Brill (Whittlesey House).\n\nThe earliest reports of the raid of 1692 did not mention Madeleine. Five accounts of the siege of 1692 appeared during Madeleine's lifetime. The earliest is a letter Madeleine wrote to the Comtesse de Maurepas 15 October 1699, in which she gives her story in petition of a pension. She wrote a longer, greatly embellished version dated 1722 or later to Governor Beauharnois at his request. Claude-Charles de La Potherie in 1722 published two accounts: the first is virtually the same as Madeleine's letter of 1699, and the second virtually the same as the later to Beauharnois; both may have been based on, or were even the basis of, Madeleine's own. Pierre François Xavier de Charlevoix published another embellished version in 1744. In 1730 Gervais Levebre, a priest against whom Madeleine had initiated a legal process, was recorded stating, \"God fears neither hero nor heroine\", which suggests her story was well known by that time.\n\nAccounts progressively emphasized Madeleine's disguising herself as a man, the necessity of which is questioned: her mother had commanded a similar defence two years earlier with no such disguise. In her first account, Madeleine describes how she escaped from an Iroquois by leaving her scarf in his hands and then replaced her headdress with a soldier's helmet. Charlevoix adds to this that she knotted up her hair and put on a man's jerkin. Later accounts may represent later societies' anxieties over Madeleine's transvestism. The 1730 lawsuit was over the priest Levebre's calling Madeleine a \"whore\", which may suggest notions of free sexuality the public had of women who assumed such a traditionally male role as that of warrior.\n\nMany writers took pains to ensure that, after the siege, Madeleine returned fully to her traditional feminine role and demeanour. A journalist in 1912 wrote she \"was a perfect woman, as good a housekeeper as a mother\". The curate Frédéric-Alexandre Baillairgé wrote that though \"strong, was nonetheless soft and sensitive\". Some were more explicit, as Lionel Groulx who wrote that women \"must sometimes fill in for men, but they must render them the arms for the battles that are more appropriate for them\". While female writers also often emphasized Madeleine's return to a traditional role supporting the men, others used her story to advance a feminist position of the role of women in Canadian history.\n\nComparisons have been drawn between Madeleine and Joan of Arc—both teenaged virgins who dressed as males—and to Jeanne Hachette, who led the defense of Beauvais. Parallels have also been seen with Madeleine's contemporary Adam Dollard des Ormeaux, the hero of the Battle of Long Sault during the Beaver Wars.\n\nVerchères's story was mostly forgotten following her death. It was revived after the discovery of her in the 1860s, and from the 1880s to the 1920s she achieved the status of a symbol of French-Canadian nationalism. In the wake of the Conscription Crisis of 1917, Marie-Victorin Kirouac wrote a play, \"Peuple sans histoire\" (\"A people without history\", 1918). In it an indignant young French-Canadian servant to Lord Durham, upon reading a report of Durham's following the Lower Canada Rebellion of 1837 in which he declares the French Canadians have no history, appends to it \"Thou liest, Durham!\" and signs it Madeleine de Verchères. The story he hears from her of Verchères convinces him to give credence to the French Canadians and compares the story to \"a canto of the Iliad\".\n\nLater authors used the story of Madeleine for nationalistic ends. To rally support for the Imperial Order Daughters of the Empire, Arthur Doughty's account of 1916 makes parallels between the Germans in World War I and the Iroquois who stood in the way of \"the advance of European civilization\".\n\nWhile heroes such as Dollard had had monuments erected to their memories, by the early 20th century that there was no such monument to Madeleine de Verchères came to public notice. Baillairgé raised funds for such a monument to commemorate Verchères and its heroine, and by July 1912 had raised $2000. Other efforts led to the federal government donating $25,000, and the wife of the mayor of Verchères unveiled the statue in a ceremony on 20 September 1913. Amongst the speeches delivered, prime minister Wilfrid Laurier declared, \"If the kingdom of France was delivered and regenerated by Joan of Arc, this colony, then French in its cradle, was illustrated by Madeleine de Verchères\".\n\nThe stories of Madeleine de Verchères and Laura Secord in Upper Canada have served as nationalist stories for French and English Canadians. Both were heroines in early Canadian settlements defending themselves from enemy forces—though where the enemy was the Iroquois to Madeleine, in Secord's story they were allies who helped her escape the Americans to inform the British of a pending attack. The motivations of the Iroquois are not made clear in contemporary documents.\n\n"}
{"id": "46212566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46212566", "title": "Marius Curteanu", "text": "Marius Curteanu\n\nMarius George Curteanu is a Romanian dressage rider and trainer. In 1984 he was selected for the Romanian National Equestrian Team. As a member of national team, he participated in international dressage competitions in Italy, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Poland, Turkey and Bulgaria, winning many prizes and medals. He has been riding over 35 years and his experience covers a wide range of equestrian work (riding, coaching, clinics) and a wide range of horses up to Grand Prix level in dressage.\n\n1985 - 1995: Every year National Dressage Champion.\n1988: Romanian Referee License in Dressage and Show Jumping.\n1991: Awarded \"Master of Sports\" title by officials from Romania.\n1992: Romanian Trainers License in Dressage.\n1996-2001:Trainer and dressage rider in Kaiserhof, Legelshurst, Germany.\n2013: Equestrian Passport - IGEQ (International Group for Equestrian Qualification)\n\nIn Germany he won dressage tests at L, M and S Level competitions and he trained students from A to S level.\n1999: Vice-Champion Sud-Baden-Wurttemberg on horse Axon.\n2000: the 8th place in the Baden-Wurttemberg, Grand Prix, on horse Le Beau.\n\nStudent prepared by Marius won the titles of:\n\nTo polish his dressage skills he was trained by the world famous dressage trainer George Theodorescu.\n\nIn 2002, returned to Romania, he trained private horses and riders, from novice to FEI levels. One of his students was the 4th in Novice at the Romanian FEI World Dressage Challenge on horse Michelle. In 2003, at Romanian FEI World Dressage Challenge, his student was the 1st in Advanced Level on horse Michelle, and the 1st in Prix St. Georges on horse Caramelle, qualifying her for the Finals in Hagen, Germany. Between 2007–2008, with P1 visa, Marius was in USA to train and give clinics in Florida and Texas.\n\nAfter 2 ½ years of extensive training to FEI level, horse Maestoso was purchased for importation to the United States\n\nMarius' work and experience received media attention and coverage in Romania, Germany and the United States. Many articles reflected his personal and his students' work in dressage and classical training.\n\nhttp://www.hippomundo.com/competitions/rider/8044\nhttp://www.hippomundo.be/competitions/results/5743\nTurkish gazette\nCLAUDIA KAISER MIT GOLDENEM REITABZEICHEN GEEHRT PD 07/2003\n"}
{"id": "58729680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58729680", "title": "Marty Klyne", "text": "Marty Klyne\n\nMartin Klyne (born March 6, 1957) is a Canadian Senator and former corporate executive, who was appointed to the Senate of Canada in September 2018.\n\nHe is of Cree and Métis heritage.\n\nKlyne graduated with a business administration degree from the University of Regina in 1986.\n\nHe was a manager with the Royal Trust Corporation of Canada and the Mercantile Bank of Canada before serving as president and CEO of the Regina Regional Economic Development Authority and the SaskNative Economic Development Corporation.\n\nHe served as publisher and CEO of the \"Saskatoon StarPhoenix\" and \"Regina Leader-Post\" from 2008 to 2013.\n\nPreviously, he was chief operating officer of the Regina Pats and president of the 91st Grey Cup held in Regina in 2003.\n\nHe is a former president and CEO of the Saskatchewan Gaming Corporation and is the former chief executive officer of the RCMP Heritage Centre in Regina.\n"}
{"id": "38335484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38335484", "title": "Mehmet Müezzinoğlu", "text": "Mehmet Müezzinoğlu\n\nMehmet Müezzinoğlu (born January 9, 1955) is a Turkish physician and politician, who served as the Minister of Labour and Social Security between 2016 and 2017, and the Minister of Health from 2013 to 2016.\n\nHe was born on January 9, 1955 in Arriana village of Rhodope to Ali and his wife Fatma, a family from the Turkish minority in Greece. Müezzinoğlu went to Istanbul for his high school education. He studied in an İmam Hatip school, where he met Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, who was his classmate.\n\nIn 1983, Müezzinoğlu immigrated from Greece illegally by crossing the river Maritsa (). Before acquiring Turkish citizenship in 1986, he lived in Turkey as a heimatlos between 1983 and 1986.\n\nMüezzinoğlu completed his medical specialisation in internal medicine at Haseki Hospital in 1986 after graduating from Cerrahpaşa Medicine Faculty of Istanbul University in 1982.\n\nBefore entering politics, he worked as a physician in a private hospital he co-founded in Avcılar district of Istanbul Province. In his social life, he is a member of various associations and foundations related to Western Thrace Turks.\n\nMüezzinoğlu became a member of the Islamist Welfare Party (, RP) in 1992, where he helped to make policy alongside Recep Tayyip Erdoğan. Between 2002 and 2007, he served as the chairman of the Justice and Development Party's Istanbul Province organization.\n\nHe was elected as member of parliament for Istanbul Province in the 2007 general election. He was reelected to the parliament in the 2011 general election, this time as deputy for Edirne. On January 24, 2013, Mehmet Müezzinoğlu was appointed as Minister of Health in the cabinet of Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, replacing Recep Akdağ. He kept his post in three successive cabinets of Ahmet Davutoğlu. On 24 May 2016, the Third Davutoğlu Cabinet was dissolved, and Müezzinoğşu's term as Health Minister ended. On 31 August 2016, he was appointed Minister of Labour and Social Security in the Cabinet of Yıldırım replacing Süleyman Soylu. During a cabinet reshuffle on 19 July 2017, his term ended, and he was succeeded by Jülide Sarıeroğlu.\n\nDuring the 2013 protests in Turkey, several makeshift infirmaries were erected to treat victims of the violence. The injuries included trauma from plastic bullets and teargas canisters. In response to this, Müezzinoğlu declared that \"[t]he infirmaries around the protest areas are illegal. This is ideologic and it's an execution violating the legal structure. There will be legal action taken against the medics working in those infirmaries.\"\n\nMehmet Müezzinoğlu is married and has two children.\n\n"}
{"id": "6110205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6110205", "title": "Melchior Lotter", "text": "Melchior Lotter\n\nLotter was the last name of a family of German printers, intimately connected with the Reformation.\n\nThe founder of the family was Melchior Lotter, the elder, born at Aue, and well-known at Leipzig as early as 1491. He published missals, breviaries, a \"Persius\" (1512), \"Horatii Epistolæ\" (1522), and \"Luther Tessaradecos Consolatoria pro Laborantibus\" (1520). His relations with the Reformation are not perfectly clear, but he seems to have been a sympathizer. An innovation by the elder Lotter was his use of Roman letters for Latin, reserving the Gothic types for German.\n\nHis son was also named Melchior (died c. 1542), which has resulted in some bibliographical confusion. Melchior, the younger, is best known for printing Martin Luther's Bible, \"Das Neue Testament\" (1522), and the impressions of 1523 and 1524 of the Old Testament, which was transferred afterward to Hans Lufft. He published many other German writings of Luther. Only a little less important was his bringing a Greek font to Wittenberg, thus giving Melanchthon the means to carry on classes in Greek. When he returned to Leipzig, about 1525, Lotter carried on his father's business.\n\n"}
{"id": "8716875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8716875", "title": "Muslim Magomayev (composer)", "text": "Muslim Magomayev (composer)\n\nMuslim Mahammad oglu Magomayev () (18 September 1885 in Grozny – 28 July 1937 in Nalchik) was an Azerbaijani, Chechen and Soviet composer and conductor. He is the grandfather and a namesake of Azerbaijani opera singer Muslim Magomayev.\n\nHe was born Abdulmuslim Magomayev into a family of a blacksmith on the same day another prominent Azerbaijani composer Uzeyir Hajibeyov was born. He had studied at a primary school in Grozny before being admitted to the Gori Pedagogical Seminary (in present-day Georgia) in 1900. There Magomayev developed passion for music and conducting. That was also where he first met Uzeyir Hajibeyov, then his fellow student. However Magomayev found musical career financially unpromising and decided to focus on teaching. In 1905, he acquired his teaching certificate at the Tiflis Teachers' College and was appointed a teacher to the village of Bekovichi (now Kizlyar, Republic of North Ossetia–Alania). In 1906, he was voluntarily reappointed to Lankaran (present-day Azerbaijan). In 1911, he received a license that allowed him to teach in high schools and moved to a Baku suburb, Sabunchu. While teaching at a school he took up music and conducting once again.\n\nIn 1916, Magomayev wrote his first opera entitled \"Shah Ismayil\" based on the homonymous Azeri folk epic. Unlike other early Azeri operas, \"Shah Ismayil\" was less focused on the ethnic musical component and embodied European opera styles. Magomayev's most major work was \"Nargiz\". Written in 1935, this successful propaganda opera depicts Azerbaijani communists in their fight against the short-lived Azerbaijan Democratic Republic. Overall, Magomayev was the author of 15 musical compositions, mostly rhapsodies. In 1927, together with Hajibeyov, he published \" The Collection of Azerbaijani Folk Songs\"; a book where over 300 pieces of folk music had been documented in notes. In 1935 Muslum Magomayev was selected Honoured Arts worker of Azerbaijan SSR.\n\nIn 1905, Magomayev married Baydigul Jamal Teregulova (whose younger sister Maleyka later married Uzeyir Hajibeyov making the two composers relatives) and fathered two sons. In 1937, he died of tuberculosis while visiting Nalchik (Republic of Kabardino-Balkaria, Russia) and was buried in Baku. The Magomayev Azerbaijan State Philharmonic Society is named after Muslim Magomayev.\n\nMuslum Magomayev’s “Shah Ismail” opera has been composed in 1916. The mugham opera composed in 1915-1916 is consist of 6 acts and 7 scenes. Libretto and text were written by composer Mirza Gadir Ismailzade.\nThe premiere of the opera was held on March 7, 1919 in Baku, with a benefit performance of Huseyngulu Sarabski. Muslim Magomayev was conductor and Huseyn Arablinski was director of the opera. Actors were: H.Sarabski - Shah Ismail, M.H.Teregulov - Aslan Shah and Huseynagha Hajibababeyov – Gulzar.\n\n”Nargiz ”– is the second opera by Muslim Magomayev, Azerbaijani composer and Honored Art Worker of the Azerbaijan SSR, written in 1935. Mammed Said Ordubadi is the author of a libretto to the opera. It is considered the most significant composition of Muslim Magomayev. Music of the opera consists of folk songs of Azerbaijan. In 1938, the opera was shown during the Decade of Azerbaijani Arts in Moscow, with the editorship of Reinhold Glière. It is also noted that, the opera narrates about a struggle of Azerbaijani peasants for the Soviet Power. “Nargiz” is the first Azerbaijani opera on a modern theme.\n\n"}
{"id": "2445603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2445603", "title": "Names of the Greeks", "text": "Names of the Greeks\n\nThe Greeks () have been identified by many ethnonyms. The most common native ethnonym is \"Hellen\" (), pl. Hellenes (); the name \"Greeks\" (Latin: \"Graeci\") was used by the ancient Romans and gradually entered the European languages through its use in Latin. The mythological patriarch \"Hellen\" is the named progenitor of the Greek peoples; his descendants the Aeolians, Dorians, Achaeans and Ionians correspond to the main Greek tribes and to the main dialects spoken in Greece and Asia Minor (Anatolia). Among his descendants are also mentioned the Graeci and the Makedones.\n\nThe first Greek-speaking people, called Myceneans or Mycenean-Achaeans by historians, entered present-day Greece sometime in the Neolithic era or the Bronze Age. Homer refers to \"Achaeans\" as the dominant tribe during the Trojan war period usually dated to the 12th–11th centuries BC, using \"Hellenes\" to describe a relatively small tribe in Thessaly. The Dorians, an important Greek-speaking group appeared roughly at that time. According to the Greek tradition, the \"Graeci\" (\"Greeks\", , \"Graikoi\") were renamed \"Hellenes\" probably with the establishment of the Great Amphictyonic League after the Trojan war.\n\nWhen the Romans first encountered Greek colonists in southern Italy, they used the name Graeci for the colonists and then for all Greeks; this became the root of all relevant terms in European languages. The Persians used the name \"Yaunas\" (\"Yunans\") after the Ionians, a Greek tribe who colonized part of the coasts of western Asia Minor. The term was used later in Hebrew (\"Yevanim\", ), Arabic, and also by the Turks. The word entered the languages of the Indian subcontinent as the \"Yona\". A unique form is used in Georgian, where the Greeks are called \"Berdzeni\" (ბერძენი).\n\nBy Late Antiquity (c. 3rd–7th century CE), the Greeks referred to themselves as \"Graikoi\" (, \"Greeks\") and \"Rhomaioi\"/\"Romioi\" (//, \"Romans\") the latter of which was used since virtually all Greeks were Roman citizens after 212 CE. The term \"Hellene\" became applied to the followers of the polytheistic (\"pagan\") religion after the establishment of Christianity by Theodosius I.\n\nMost European languages, as well as other languages that have borrowed the name from one of them, use names for Greece that come from the Latin \"Graecia\" and \"Graecus\", the name the Romans used for the Greeks, itself from the Greek :\n\nIn languages of Middle East and South and Central Asia, the common root is \"yun\" or \"ywn\". It is borrowed from the Greek name \"Ionia\", a once Greek region of Asia Minor, and the Ionians:\n\n\nThe third form is \"Hellas\", used by a few languages around the world, including Greek:\n\n\nOther forms:\n\nThe first people speaking an ancient Proto-Greek language entered mainland Greece during the Neolithic period or the Bronze Age. From the Ancient Greek dialects as they presented themselves centuries later, it seems that at least two migrations of Greeks followed, the first of the Ionians and the Aeolians probably in the 19th century BC and the second of the Dorians probably in the 13th century BC. The first migration resulted in Mycenean Greek, an archaic Greek language which appears in Linear B syllabic inscriptions and the second resulted in the Dorian dialect which displaced the Arcadocypriot dialect that seems to be closest to the Mycenean Greek.\n\nThe Greeks later called the autochthonous or Proto-Greek speaking people by the names:\n\nThe tribes later called Aeolians and Ionians established several feudal kingdoms around Greece, and the historians called them Myceneans after their most powerful kingdom Mycenea in Peloponnese, or Myceneans-Achaeans because in Homer the \"Achaeans\" were the dominating tribe in Greece and the name \"Achiyawa\" that appears in Hittite texts seems to correspond to a thalassocratic country which might be \"Mycenea\".\n\nAlthough Homer refers to a union of the Greek kingdoms under the leadership of the king of \"Mycenae\" during the Trojan War, there is no evidence that these kingdoms were dominated by a central power. Most of the Mycenean palaces were destroyed at the end of the 13th century BC. The Greek tradition relates this destruction to the Dorians, but it is suggested that the Dorian invasion was only one of the causes of the Bronze Age collapse in the Eastern Mediterranean, as there is no evidence that the newcomers established a different civilization. The destruction was followed by the Greek Dark Ages with very poor archaeological findings, when most occupied areas were deserted, but some areas like Attica occupied by the \"Ionians\" remained untouched by the invaders. Several Greek tribes moved to regions of Greece where they acquired different names, and population groups moved through the islands to the western coasts of Asia Minor where they kept their native names \"Aeolians\", \"Ionians\" and \"Dorians\".\n\nIt seems that the myth of Hellen, the patriarch of \"Hellenes\" was invented when the Greek tribes started to separate from each other, and stressed their common origin. The name \"Hellenes\" was probably used by the Greeks with the establishment of the Great Amphictyonic League, an ancient association of Greek tribes. According to legend it was founded after the Trojan War, by the eponymous Amphictyon, brother of Hellen. It had twelve founders and was organized to protect the great temples of Apollo in Delphi (Phocis) and of Demeter near Thermopylae (Locris). The twelve founders enumerated by Aeschines were the Aenianes or Oetaeans (Αἰνιᾶνες, Οἰταῖοι), the Boeotians (Βοιωτοί) of Thebes, the Dolopes (Δόλοπες), the Dorians (Δωριείς) of Sparta, the Ionians (Ἴωνες) of Athens, the Phthian Achaeans (Ἀχαιοί), the Locrians (Λοκροί) (\"Opuntians\", Ὀπούντιοι and \"Ozolians\", Ὀζολαί), the Magnesians (Μάγνητες), the Malians (Μαλιεῖς), the Perrhaebians (Περραιβοί), the Phocians (Φωκεῖς), the Pythians (Πύθιοι) of Delphi, and the Thessalians (Θεσσαλοί). Among the descendants of \"Hellen\" are mentioned Aeolus, Ion, Achaeus, Dorus, Graecos and Makedon. It seems that the Macedonians were a \"Dorian\" tribe which stayed behind in Macedonia when the main Dorian tribes moved to the south.\n\nThe Greek cultural tradition has been continuous for centuries; it has always been centered on those who were wealthy and literate enough to have produced literature and have it preserved. They have defined the Greeks as those being in some ways similar to themselves, by descent, speech, culture, or religion. In the earliest surviving literary prose, from the fifth century BC, there is a strong distinction marked between the Greeks (who are called \"Hellenes\") and the rest of humankind; exactly who falls within this wall varies, depending on the century, the observer, and the purpose.\n\nThe evidence from before this period, such as it is, shows much less trace of any hard distinction between Greeks and the rest of humanity. The surviving samples of Linear B are inventory records, and do not discuss ethnicity; Hesiod's \"Theogony\" is one great genealogical tree, including gods, men, and monsters; Persians, Latins, and Etruscans.\n\nIn Homer's \"Iliad\", the Greek allied forces are described under three different names, often used interchangeably: Argives (in Greek: \"Argeioi\", Ἀργεῖοι; used 29 times in the \"Iliad\"), Danaans (Δαναοί, used 138 times) and Achaeans (Ἀχαιοί, used 598 times). \"Argives\" is an annotation drawn from the most prominent city of the Achaeans, Argos). \"Danaos\" is the name attributed to a Greek mythological character, twin brother of Aegyptus and son of Achiroe and Belus.\n\nThere is currently no satisfactory etymology for the name \"Hellenes\". Some scholars assert that the name of the priests of Zeus in Dodona, \"Selloi\" (Σελλοί; also Ἑλλοί \"Helloi\"), changed to \"Sellanes\" (by analogy with \"Akarnanes\") and then to \"Hellanes\" and \"Hellenes\". This theory is based on Aristotle's comments in \"Meteorologica\" where he places archaic Hellas in Epirus between Dodona and the Achelous river, where in his opinion the great deluge of Deucalion must have occurred. The land was inhabited by Selloi and Graeci, who later came to be known as \"Hellenes\". \"Graeci\" (\"Graikoi\") was a native name of a Dorian tribe in Epirus which was used by the Illyrians. Homer mentions that the \"Selloi\" were the prophets of Zeus at Dodona, but he is referring to Zeus of Dodona as god of the Pelasgians who belonged to a Pre-Dorian population. It is possible that the extension of a particular cult of Zeus in Dodona (a tendency among the Greeks to form ever-larger cultic communities or amphictionies) caused the name to further extend to the rest of the peninsula.\n\nThis theory connects the name \"Hellenes\" with the Dorians (and the substrate of Pelasgians) who occupied Epirus in the extreme north of Greece, rendering uncertain the relation with the name \"Graeci\" used by the Romans. Some toponyms, especially an ancient city \"Hellas\" in southern Thessaly, and the Greek tradition seem to indicate that the name \"Hellenes\" was Pre-Dorian itself and that the homeland of the \"Graikoi\", who were later called \"Hellenes\", was in central Greece. The Greek tradition mentions an earlier deluge of Ogyges in the region of Boeotia which was occupied by the Minyans a group of autochthonous or Proto-Greek speaking people. The region was called Graïke in ancient times probably after the old city of Graea (Γραῖα \"Graîa\", from Proto-Greek \"grau-j-\", \"old lady\") on the coast.\n\nHomer refers to \"Hellenes\" as an originally relatively small tribe settled in Thessalic Phthia. During the era of the Trojan War they were centered along the settlements of Alos, Alope, Trachis, and the Pelasgian Argos. This Homeric \"Hellas\" is described as \"καλλιγύναικος\", \"kalligýnaikos\", \"of beautiful women\", and its warriors, the Hellenes, along with the feared Myrmidons, were under the command of Achilles. The Parian Chronicle mentions that Phthia was the homeland of the Hellenes and that this name was given to those previously called Greeks (). Alcman (7th century BC) also refers that the mothers of \"Hellenes\" were \"Graikoi\". In Greek mythology, Hellen, the patriarch of Hellenes, was son of Deucalion, who ruled around Phthia with Pyrrha, the only survivors after the great deluge. It seems that the myth was invented when the Greek tribes started to separate from each other in certain areas of Greece and it indicates their common origin. The name \"Hellenes\" was probably used by the Greeks with the establishment of the Great Amphictyonic League. This was an ancient association of Greek tribes with twelve founders which was organized to protect the great temples of Apollo in Delphi (Phocis) and of Demeter near Thermopylae (Locris). According to legend it was founded after the Trojan War, by the eponymous Amphictyon, brother of Hellen.\n\nThe modern English noun \"Greek\" (Old English \"Grecas\" or \"Crecas\") is derived from the Latin \"Graeci\", which in turn originates from Ancient Greek (\"Graikos\"). It seems that the word is related with the Greek word \"geron\", \"old man\" (from the PIE base \"*ǵerh-\", \"to grow old\") via Proto-Greek \"*gera-\", \"old age\"—also related to Mycenean Greek \"kera\" /geras/, \"gift of honour\". The Germanic languages borrowed the name with an initial \"k\" sound, which was probably their initial sound closest to the Latin \"g\" (Goth. \"Kreks\").\n\nAristotle used the term \"Graikos\" related with \"Hellenes\" (\"Meteorologica\" I xiv) and claimed that it was the name originally used by the Illyrians for the Dorians in Epirus from \"Graii\" native name of the people of Epirus. He places ancient Hellas in the region of Achelous river around Dodona where in his opinion the great deluge of Deucalion must have occurred. The priests of Zeus in Dodona were called \"Selloi\" which could lead to \"Sellanes\" (like \"Akarnanes\") and then to \"Hellanes\"-\"Hellenes\". However the toponyms and the Greek tradition indicate that it is more possible that the homeland of the Greeks was originally in central Greece and that the name was probably Pre-Dorian. A Greek legend is referring to an older deluge of Ogyges in Boeotia, in the region occupied by the Minyans which are considered autochthonous or Proto-Greek speaking people. The region outside of Attica including Boeotia was called Graïke and the word \"Ogyges\" related with ocean came to mean \"from earliest days.\" Homer is referring to \"Hellenes\" as a relative small tribe in Phthia in central Greece (\"Achaea Pthiotis\"). In the Parian Chronicle is mentioned that Phthia was the homeland of Hellenes and that this name was given to those previously called \"Graikoi\" (). In Greek mythology, Hellen, the patriarch of Hellenes, was son of Deucalion (who ruled around Phthia) and Pyrrha, the only survivors after the great deluge. Hesiod is referring to Graecus son of Pandora, who was sister of Hellen. Alcman mentions that the mothers of \"Hellenes\" were \"Graikoi\".\n\nThe German classical historian Georg Busolt (1850–1920) derives the name from \"Graikos\",\"inhabitant of Graea, a town on the coast of Boeotia. The name \"Graea\" (γραῖα) is derived from Proto-Greek \"grau-j-\", \"old lady\". Homer, while reciting the Boeotian forces in the \"Iliad\"'s Catalogue of Ships, provides the first known reference to a region named Graea, and Pausanias mentions that the ancient city of Tanagra was for a time called Graea, adding that \"no one knows where this Graia really was; Aristotle thought it was near Oropus, further east on the same coast as Delion.\" Busolt claimed that the name was given by the Romans originally to the Greek colonists from Graea who helped to found Cumae the important city in southern Italy where the Latins first encountered the Greeks and then to all Greeks.\n\nAccording to Rene Olivier, in the French language the word \"grec\" (\"Greek\") is sometimes also used as an ethnic slur meaning fraudster (in contrast with \"hellénique\" which has no negative connotations).\n\n\"Hellenes\" in the wider meaning of the word appears in writing for the first time in an inscription by Echembrotus, dedicated to Heracles for his victory in the Amphictyonic Games, and refers to the 48th Olympiad (584 BC). Simonides of Ceos in his epigram on the tomb of the Athenians who were killed in the Battle of Marathon (490 BC) wrote \"Ἑλλήνων προμαχοῦντες Ἀθηναῖοι Μαραθῶνι...\" \"Fighting at the forefront of the Hellenes, the Athenians at Marathon...\" \nand after the Greco-Persian Wars, an inscription was written in Delphi celebrating victory over the Persians and calling Pausanias the leading general of the Hellenes. Awareness of a pan-Hellenic unity was promoted by religious festivals, most significantly in the Eleusinian Mysteries, in which prospective initiates had to speak Greek, and almost as importantly through participation in the four Panhellenic Games, including the Olympic Games, in which participants were recognized by tribal affiliation. Only Greek men were allowed to participate; the occasional exception in later times, such as that made for Emperor Nero, was a sure sign of Roman political hegemony.\n\nThe development of mythological genealogies of descent from eponymous founder-figures, long after the actual southward migration of the four tribal groups recognized by the Greeks, affected how the identity of northern tribes was perceived. According to the most prevailing legend, Hellen, son of Deucalion and Pyrrha, received from the nymph Orseis three sons, Aeolus, Dorus, and Xuthus, each of whom founded a primary tribe of Hellas–the Aeolians, Dorians, Achaeans and Ionians.\n\nAt the time of the Trojan War, the Epirotes (Molossians, Thesprotians and Chaonians) were not considered Hellenes, for the people so named were then limited to a small tribe in Thessaly of which Achilles was a member. After the name was extended to all peoples south of Mount Olympus, however, it still left out those of common origin living in the north. One factor contributing to this was their non-participation in the Persian Wars, which were considered a vital affair for all Hellenes; subsequent to the Persian Wars, representatives of these tribes were accepted in the Olympic Games and competed alongside other Hellenes. The fact that each of these northern peoples at this time continued to live as an \"ethnos\", or collection of tribes, under an archaic monarchial political system – as opposed to the democratic or oligarchic \"polis\" (city state) of the south–also contributed to this view of them as \"barbaric\".\n\nThucydides calls the Acarnanians, Aetolians, Epirotes and Upper Macedonians barbarians, but does so in a strictly linguistic sense – these peoples were considered \"barbarophone\" to the extent that their dialects of Greek were sufficiently different and archaic so as to sound crude and barely understandable to a southern Attic speaker such as Thucydides. Similarly, when the Athenian orator Demosthenes called Philip II of Macedon worse than a barbarian in his \"Third Philippic\", he did so with respect to the culture they demonstrated as foreigners not adhering to proper Hellenic standards, and did not raise the issue of their origin: \"\"not only no Greek, nor related to the Greeks, but not even a barbarian from any place that can be named with honors, but a pestilent knave from Macedonia, whence it was never yet possible to buy a decent slave\".\" Herodotus, Polybius, Strabo and a large number of other Greek and Roman writers regard the tribes of western Hellas, Epirus, and Macedonia as Hellenic in every respect. Both Thucydides and Demosthenes were themselves of partial non-Attic origins and for Demosthenes it seems of non-Greek origins altogether while notably both of them held strong opposing political positions against Macedonians.\n\nIn the following centuries, \"Hellene\" typically contrasted with \"barbarian\", representing the uncivilized.\n\nThe Greek tribes quickly noticed that they did not speak the same tongue as their neighbors, and used the term \"βάρβαρος\" (\"barbarian\") for them, with the meanings \"uncultured\", \"uncivilized\" or \"speaker of a foreign language\". The term βάρβαρος is thought to be onomatopoeic in origin: \"bar-bar\"—i.e. stammering—may have been how the speech of foreign peoples sounded to Greek speakers. This was also the case for the Egyptians, who, according to Herodotus, \"named barbarians all those who spoke a different tongue\", and in later years for the Slavs, who gave the Germans the name \"němec\", which means \"mute\", while calling themselves \"slověnski\" or \"people of the word\". In his play \"The Birds\", Aristophanes calls the illiterate supervisor a \"barbarian\" who nevertheless taught the birds how to talk. The term eventually picked up a derogatory use and was extended to indicate the entire lifestyle of foreigners, and finally coming to mean \"illiterate\" or \"uncivilized\" in general. Thus \"an illiterate man is also a barbarian\". According to Dionysius of Halicarnassus, a Hellene differed from a barbarian in four ways: refined language, education, religion, and the rule of law. Greek education became identified with noble upbringing. Paul of Tarsus considered it his obligation to preach the Gospel to all men, \"Hellenes and barbarians, both wise and foolish\".\n\nDiscrimination between Hellenes and barbarians lasted until the 4th century BC. Euripides thought it plausible that Hellenes should rule over barbarians, because the first were destined for freedom and the other for slavery. Aristotle came to the conclusion that \"the nature of a barbarian and a slave is one and the same\". Racial differentiation faded away through the teachings of Stoics, who distinguished between nature and convention and taught that all men have equal claim before the gods and thus by nature cannot be unequal to each other. With time and at least in some cases, \"Hellene\", to use the words of Isocrates, became a trait of intellect, not race.\n\nAlexander the Great's conquests consolidated Greek influence in the East by exporting Greek culture into Asia and permanently transformed education and society in the region. Isocrates declared in his speech \"Panegyricus\", speaking about Athens and Greece: \"And so far has our city distanced the rest of mankind in thought and in speech that her pupils have become the teachers of the rest of the world; and she has brought it about that the name Hellenes suggests no longer a race but an intelligence, and that the title Hellenes is applied rather to those who share our culture than to those who share a common blood\". With a small reformation, the Hellenistic civilization is the evolution of classical Greek civilization into a civilization with global proportions, this time open to everybody. Similarly, \"Hellene\" evolved from a national name signifying an ethnic Greek to a cultural term signifying anybody who conducted his life according to Greek mores.\n\nA wholly different term came to establish itself in the East. The ancient people of the Middle East referred to the Hellenes as \"Yunan\", deriving from Persian \"Yauna\", itself a loan of Greek Ιωνία (Ionia), the western coast of Asia Minor. It is by affiliation with the Ionian tribe the Persians conquered in the late 6th century BC that their name extended to all Hellenes. All peoples under Persian influence adopted the term, and it is from this root that Sanskrit \"Yavana\" derives, which one encounters in ancient Sanskrit sources, first attested in Pāṇini's grammar, and later referring, together with Pali \"Yona\", \"Yonaka\" to the Indo-Greeks. The term \"Yunan\" is used in current Persian, Arabic (), Azeri, Turkish, Hindi (यूनान), Indonesian and Malay.\n\nThe related Hebrew name, \"Yavan\" or \"Javan\" (), was used to refer to the Greek nation in the Eastern Mediterranean in early Biblical times. There was an eponymous character Javan mentioned in \"Genesis\" 10:2. In later times it was used for all Hellenistic kingdoms (for example, the Maccabeans applied it to their Seleucid foes). \"Yavan\" is still the name used for modern Greece in contemporary Israel.\n\nAlthough the contemporary Chinese term for Greece (希臘 \"Xīlà\") is based on \"Hellas\", Chinese previously used what was likely a version of the \"Yunan\" or \"Yona\" root when referring to the Dàyuān (大宛). The Dàyuān were probably the descendants of the Greek colonies that were established by Alexander the Great and prospered within the Hellenistic realm of the Seleucids and Greco-Bactrians, until they were isolated by the migrations of the Yueh-Chih around 160 BC. It has been suggested that the name \"Yuan\" was simply a transliteration of the words \"Yunan\", \"Yona\", or Ionians, so that Dàyuān (literally \"Great Yuan\") would mean \"Great Yunans\" or \"Great Ionians.\"\n\nThe name \"Hellene\" was given the meaning \"pagan\" by the early Christian church, and retained that meaning until the end of the millennium. It is believed that contact with Christian Jews led some Christians to use \"Hellene\" as a means of religious differentiation. Jews, like Greeks, distinguished themselves from foreigners, but unlike Greeks, did so according to religious rather than cultural standards.\n\nRoman domination of the Greek world enhanced the prestige of the religious institutions that remained intact. Early Christians differentiated people according to religion, so the sense of the word \"Hellene\" as a cultural attribute became marginalized and then supplanted by its religious element. Eventually, Christians came to refer to all pagans as \"Hellenes\".\n\nSt. Paul in his Epistles uses \"Hellene\" almost always juxtaposed to \"Hebrew\", and in disregard of all other ethnicities (Romans, Syrians, Egyptians, etc.) living in the area at the time. The aim was probably to represent the aggregate of the polytheistic and the monotheistic religious communities, who respectively believed in many gods or one god. \"Hellene\" is used in a religious sense for the first time in the New Testament. In the \"Gospel of Mark\" 7:26, a woman arrives before Jesus kneeling before Him: \"The woman was a Hellene, a Syrophœnician by nation; and she besought him that he would cast forth the devil out of her daughter.\" Since the nationality or ethnicity of the woman is stated to be Syrophœnician, \"Greek\" (translated as such into the English of the King James Version, but as \"haiþno\" \"\" in Ulfilas's Gothic; Wycliffe and Coverdale likewise have \"heathen\") must therefore signify her polytheistic religion. A broadly similar terminology is found in John 12:20–23: \"And there were certain Hellenes among them that came up to worship at the feast ... Jesus answered them, saying, The hour is come, that the Son of man should be glorified\". This could have one of two interpretations: either that Jesus meant that the time had come for his religion to spread to the \"pagans\" (in which case the term \"Hellenes\" is religious), or that it would spread by using the \"Greek language\" (in which case the term \"Hellenes\" is meant to be linguistic). The development towards a purely religious meaning was slow, and complete by approximately the 2nd or 3rd century AD: Athenian statesman Aristeides, in his written Apology to the Emperor Hadrian, picked out the \"Hellenes\" as one of the representative pagan peoples of the world along with the Egyptians and the Chaldæans. Later, Clement of Alexandria reports an unknown Christian writer who named all of the above \"Hellenes\" and spoke of two old nations and one new: the Christian nation.\n\nSeveral books written at this time demonstrate quite clearly the semantic shift. Perhaps the first was Tatian's \"Address to the Greeks\", completed in AD 170, where Tatian criticizes pagan beliefs in order to defend Christian ones. Most important of the later works was Athanasius' \"Against Hellenes\", originally titled \"Against the Gentiles\" (Greek \"ethnikoi\") according to older manuscripts. It was changed by a later writer at a time when \"Hellene\" had lost its ancient meaning entirely. From then on, \"Hellene\" no longer meant an ethnic Greek or an adherent to Greek culture, but pagans in general, regardless of race. Emperor Julian's attempt to restore paganism failed, and according to Pope Gregory I, \"matters moved in favor of Christianity and the position of the Hellenes was severely aggravated\". Half a century later Christians protested against the Eparch of Alexandria, whom they accused of being a Hellene. Theodosius I initiated the first \"legal\" steps against paganism, but it was Justinian's legal reforms that triggered pagan persecutions on a massive scale. The \"Corpus Juris Civilis\" contained two statutes which decreed the total destruction of \"Hellenism\", even in civic life, and were zealously enforced even against men in high position. The official suppression of paganism made non-Christians a public threat, which further derogated the meaning of \"Hellene\". Paradoxically, Tribonian, Justinian's own legal commissioner, according to the \"Suda\" dictionary, was a \"Hellene\" (pagan).\n\nThe name Hellene meaning \"pagan\" has persisted into modern times. Many groups advocating a revival or reconstruction of the worship of the Olympian Gods call themselves Hellenic Polytheists and the religion Hellenic Polytheistic Reconstructionism or Hellenismos. Such groups outside of Greece are careful not to imply that, by calling themselves Hellenes, they consider themselves Greek nationals.\n\nThe name \"Macedonians\", in order to colloquially mean the Greek soldiers (etc) that Alexander the Great was first the hegemon of, is being used by -at least- contemporary sources when referring to the Hellenistic period, as the ancient Macedonian army, including the famous somatophylakes (eg Lysimachus) and, later, the diadochi of Alexander, consisted of warriors from numerous and diverse Greek tribes. Thus, as the Spartans (Lacedaemonians) did not take part in Alexander's campaign, Alexander once ordered for an inscription to be sent, along with some war spoils, to Athens saying \"Alexander, son of Philip, and all the Greeks except the Lacedaemonians [...]\" . Likewise, the term \"Macedonian\", while referring here to Greek dialects, also ended up meaning the Koine Greek in classical sources , whereas diverse major Ancient Greek dialects were natively spoken in the later/expanded Macedonian Kingdom, and even though the Koine dialect was mostly based on Attic Greek that was natively spoken around Athens. Notably, during of the reign of Constantine the Great, who is regarded as the first Byzantine Emperor, the Diocese of Macedonia was established, comprising principally the area that is modern Greece, with Thessalonica as its capital.\n\nRomans or \"Rhomaioi\" (Ῥωμαῖοι; sg. Ῥωμαῖος \"Rhomaios\") and \"Romioi\" (Ρωμιοί; sg. Ρωμιός \"Romios\"), is the name by which the Greeks were known in the Middle Ages and during Ottoman rule. The name in antiquity originally signified the inhabitants of the city of Rome in Italy, but with the increasing grants of Roman citizenship to the Greeks and other nations of the Roman Empire, it soon lost its connection with the Latins. This process culminated in 212 AD, when Emperor Caracalla's \"Constitutio Antoniniana\" granted the citizenship to all free-born men of the Empire. Later Byzantine authors such as Nikephoros Basilakes, Michael Attaleiates, Theodore Prodromos, Patriarch Germanus II, Niketas Choniates and Nicaean Emperor Theodore II Laskaris also used the classicizing term Ausones to refer to the people of the Eastern Roman Empire, although, as John Tzetzes points out (in his \"Scholia to Lycophron's \"Alexandra\"\", attributed to himself and his brother Isaac), that should be understood in its proper context as a literary device. Overall, the word \"Rhomaios\" came to represent the hellenized inhabitants of the East Roman Empire. It is even used today (albeit extremely rarely), being the most popular national name after Hellene.\n\nOverall, the foreign borrowed name (Romans) initially had a more political than national meaning, which went hand in hand with the universalizing ideology of Rome that aspired to encompass all nations of the world under one true God. Up until the early 7th century, when the Empire still extended over large areas and many peoples, the use of the name \"Roman\" always indicated citizenship and never descent. Various ethnicities could apply their own ethnonyms or toponyms to disambiguate citizenship from genealogy, which is why the historian Procopius prefers to call the Byzantines as \"Hellenized Romans\", while other authors use \"Romhellenes\" and \"Graecoromans\", aiming to indicate descent and citizenship simultaneously. The Lombard and Arab invasions in the same century resulted in the loss of most of the provinces including Italy and all of the Middle East, save for Anatolia. The areas that did remain were mostly Greek-speaking, thereby turning the empire into a much more cohesive unit that eventually developed a fairly self-conscious identity. Unlike in the previous centuries, there is a clear sense of nationalism reflected in East Roman documents towards the end of the 1st millennium.\n\nThe Byzantines' failure to protect the Pope from the Lombards forced the Pope to search for help elsewhere. The man who answered his call was Pepin II of Aquitaine, whom he had named \"Patrician\", a title that caused a serious conflict. In 772, Rome ceased commemorating the emperor that first ruled from Constantinople, and in 800 Charlemagne was crowned Roman Emperor by the Pope himself, officially rejecting the Eastern Roman Empire as true Romans. According to the Frankish interpretation of events, the papacy appropriately \"transferred Roman imperial authority from the Greeks to the Germans, in the name of His Greatness, Charles\". From then on, a war of names about the New Rome revolved around Roman imperial rights. Unable to deny that an emperor did exist in Constantinople, they sufficed in renouncing him as a successor of Roman heritage on the grounds that Greeks have nothing to do with the Roman legacy. In 865, Pope Nicholas I wrote to the Emperor Michael III: \"You ceased to be called 'Emperor of the Romans' since the Romans, of whom you claim to be Emperor, are in fact according to you barbarians.\"\n\nHenceforth, the emperor in the East was known and referred to in the West as \"Emperor of the Greeks\" and their land as \"Greek Empire\", reserving both \"Roman\" titles for the Frankish king. The interests of both sides were nominal rather than actual. No land areas were ever claimed, but the insult the Byzantines took on the accusation demonstrates how close at heart the Roman name (Ῥωμαῖος) had become to them. In fact, Bishop Liutprand of Cremona, a delegate of the Frankish court, was briefly imprisoned in Constantinople for not referring to the Roman emperor by his appropriate title, and in reprisal for his king, Otto I, claiming the \"Roman\" title by styling himself as \"Holy Roman Emperor\".\n\n\"See Rüm and Rumeli for Turkish and Islamic changes of meaning.\"\n\nThe secular use of \"Hellene\" revived in the 9th century, after paganism had been eclipsed and was no longer a threat to Christianity's dominance. The revival followed the same track as its disappearance. The name had originally declined from a national term in antiquity, to a cultural term in the Hellenistic years, to a religious term in the early Christian years. With the demise of paganism and the revival of learning in the Byzantine Empire it had regained its cultural meaning, and finally, by the 11th century it had returned to its ancient national form of an \"ethnic Greek\", synonymous at the time to \"Roman\".\n\nAccounts from the 11th century onward (from Anna Komnena, Michael Psellos, John III Vatatzes, George Pletho Gemistos and several others) prove that the revival of the term Hellene (as a potential replacement for ethnic terms like Graekos and Romios) did occur. For example, Anna Komnena writes of her contemporaries as Hellenes, but does not use the word as a synonym for a pagan worshipper. Moreover, Anna boasts about her Hellenic classical education, and she speaks as a native Greek and not as an outsider/foreigner who learned Greek.\n\nThe refounding of the University of Constantinople in the palaces of Magnaura promoted an interest in learning, particularly in Greek studies. Patriarch Photius was irritated because \"Hellenic studies are preferred over spiritual works\". Michael Psellus thought it a compliment when Emperor Romanus III praised him for being raised \"in the Hellenic way\" and a weakness for Emperor Michael IV for being completely devoid of a Hellenic education, while Anna Comnena claimed that she had \"carried the study of Hellenic to the highest pitch\". Also, commenting on the orphanage her father founded, she stated that \"there could be seen a Latin being trained, and a Scythian studying Hellenic, and a Roman handling Hellenic texts and an illiterate Hellene speaking Hellenic correctly\". In this case we reach a point where the Byzantines are Romans on the political level but Hellenic by descent. Eustathius of Thessalonica disambiguates the distinction in his account of the fall of Constantinople in 1204 by referring to the invaders with the generic term \"Latins\", encompassing all adherents to the Roman Catholic Church, and the \"Hellenes\" as the dominant population of the empire.\n\nAfter the fall of Constantinople to the Crusaders, Greek nationalism accentuated. Nicetas Choniates insisted on using the name \"Hellenes\", stressing the outrages of the \"Latins\" against the \"Hellenes\" in the Peloponessus and how the Alfeios River might carry the news to the barbarians in Sicily, the Normans. Nicephorus Blemmydes referred to the Byzantine emperors as Hellenes, and Theodore Alanias wrote in a letter to his brother that \"the homeland may have been captured, but Hellas still exists within every wise man\". The second Emperor of Nicaea, John III Ducas Vatatzes, wrote in a letter to Pope Gregory IX about the wisdom that \"rains upon the Hellenic nation\". He maintained that the transfer of the imperial authority from Rome to Constantinople was national and not geographic, and therefore did not belong to the Latins occupying Constantinople: Constantine's heritage was passed on to the Hellenes, so he argued, and they alone were its inheritors and successors. His son, Theodore II Lascaris, was eager to project the name of the Greeks with true nationalistic zeal. He made it a point that \"the Hellenic race looms over all other languages\" and that \"every kind of philosophy and form of knowledge is a discovery of Hellenes... What do you, O Italian, have to display?\"\n\nThe evolution of the name was slow and did not replace the \"Roman\" name completely. Nicephorus Gregoras named his historical work \"Roman History\". Emperor John VI Cantacuzenus, a big supporter of Greek education, in his own memoirs always refers to the Byzantines as \"Romans\", yet, in a letter sent by the \"sultan\" of Egypt, Nasser Hassan Ben Mohamed, referred to him as \"Emperor of the Hellenes, Bulgars, Sassanians, Vlachs, Russians, Alanians\" but not of the \"Romans\". Over the next century, George Gemistus Plethon pointed out to Constantine Palaeologus that the people he leads are \"Hellenes, as their race and language and education testifies\", while Laonicus Chalcondyles was a proponent of completely substituting \"Roman\" terminology for \"Greek\" terminology. Constantine Palaeologus himself in the end proclaimed Constantinople the \"refuge for Christians, hope and delight of all Hellenes\". On the other hand, the same Emperor in his final speech before the Empire's demise called upon his audience to rally to the defenses by characteristically referring to them as \"descendants of Hellenes and Romans\", most possibly as an attempt to combine Greek national sentiment with the Roman tradition of the Byzantine crown and Empire, both highly respected elements in his subjects' psyche at that moment.\n\nBy the time of the fall of the Western Roman Empire most easterners had come to think of themselves as Christians and, more than ever before, as Romans. Although they may not have liked their government any more than they had previously, the Greeks among them could no longer consider it foreign, run by Latins from Italy. The word \"Hellene\" itself had already begun to mean a pagan rather than a person of Greek race or culture. Instead eastern Greeks overwhelmingly used the self-identifying term \"Rhomaios\", \"Roman\".\n\nThe term \"Byzantine Empire\" was introduced in 1557, about a century after the Fall of Constantinople, by German historian Hieronymus Wolf, who introduced a system of Byzantine historiography in his work \"Corpus Historiae Byzantinae\" in order to distinguish ancient Roman from medieval Greek history without drawing attention to their ancient predecessors. Several authors adopted his terminology, but it remained relatively unknown. English historians preferred to use Roman terminology (Edward Gibbon used it in a particularly belittling manner), while French historians preferred to call it Greek. The term reappeared in the mid-19th century and has since dominated completely in historiography, even in Greece, despite objections from Constantine Paparregopoulos, Gibbon's influential Greek counterpart, that the empire should be called Greek. Few Greek scholars adopted the terminology at that time, but it became popular in the second half of the 20th century.\n\nThe \"Byzantines\" did not only refer to themselves as \"Rhomaioi\" in order to retain both their Roman citizenship and their ancient Hellenic heritage. In fact, the overwhelming majority of the \"Byzantines\" themselves were very conscious of their uninterrupted continuity with the ancient Greeks. Even though the ancient Greeks were not Christians, the \"Byzantines\" still regarded them as their ancestors. A common substitute for the term \"Hellene\" other than \"Rhomaios\" was the term \"Graikos\" (Γραικός). This term was used often by the \"Byzantines\" (along with \"Rhomaios\") for ethnic self-identification. Evidence of the use of the term \"Graikos\" can be found in the works of Priscus, a historian of the 5th century AD. The historian stated in one of his accounts that while unofficially on an embassy to Attila the Hun, he had met at Attila's court someone who dressed like a Scythian yet spoke Greek. When Priskos asked the person where he had learned the language, the man smiled and said that he was a Graekos by birth. Many other \"Byzantine\" authors speak of the Empire's natives as Greeks [\"Graikoi\"] or Hellenes such as Constantine Porphyrogennitos of the 10th century. His accounts discuss about the revolt of a Slavic tribe in the district of Patras in the Peloponnese. Constantine states that the Slavs who revolted first proceeded to sack the dwellings of their neighbors, the Greeks (\"ton Graikon\"), and next they moved against the inhabitants of the city of Patras. Overall, ancient Hellenic continuity was evident all throughout the history of the Eastern Roman Empire. The \"Byzantines\" were not merely a general Orthodox Christian populace that referred to themselves as merely \"Romans.\" Though they used the term for legal and administrative purposes, other terms were in fact used to ethnically distinguish themselves. In short, the Greek inhabitants of the Eastern Roman Empire were very conscious of their ancient Hellenic heritage and were able to preserve their identity while adapting to the changes the world was undergoing at the time.\n\nFollowing the Ottoman conquest of Constantinople and during the Ottoman Greece a fierce ideological battle ensued regarding the three rival national names of the Greeks. This struggle may have settled down after the Greek War of Independence but was permanently resolved only recently in the 20th century after the loss of Asia Minor to the Turks.\n\nThe struggle reflected the diverging view of history between classicists and medievalists (katharevousa and demotic) in their attempt to define Greek nationality at a time without a Byzantine state to foster the movement. The concept of \"Hellene\" for a person of Greek origin was already well established since the late Middle Ages. However, for the majority of the population, especially those in rural areas away from urban centers, the dominant perception was still that of a \"Roman\"/\"Romios\", a descendant of the Byzantine Empire or \"Rhomania\". Scholar Rigas Feraios called \"Bulgars and Arvanites, Armenians and Romans\" to rise in arms against the Ottomans. General Makrygiannis recalled a friend asking him: \"What say you, is the Roman State far away from coming? Are we to sleep with the Turks and awaken with the Romans?\"\n\n\"Greek\" (Γραικός) was the least popular of the three terms, but received disproportionately larger attention by scholars compared to its popular use. Adamantios Korais, a renowned Greek classicist, justified his preference in \"A Dialogue between Two Greeks\": \"Our ancestors used to call themselves Greeks but adopted afterwards the name Hellenes by a Greek who called himself Hellen. One of the above two, therefore, is our true name. I approved 'Greece' because that is what all the enlightened nations of Europe call us.\" Hellenes for Korais are the pre-Christian inhabitants of Greece.\n\nThe absence of a Byzantine state gradually led to the marginalization of the Roman name and allowed Hellene (Ἕλλην) to resurface as the primary national name. requests the exclusive use of Hellene in his \"Cheiragogy\": \"Never desire to call yourselves Romans, but Hellenes, for the Romans from ancient Rome enslaved and destroyed Hellas\". The anonymous author of \"The Hellenic Realm of Law\", published in 1806 in Pavia, Italy, speaks of Hellenes: \"The time has come, O Hellenes, to liberate our home\". The leader of the Greek War of Independence began his \"Declaration\" with a phrase similar to the above: \"The time has come, O men, Hellenes\". After the name was accepted by the spiritual and political leadership of the land, it rapidly spread to the population, especially with the onset of the Greek War of Independence where many naïve leaders and war figures distinguished between idle Romans and rebellious Hellenes. General Theodoros Kolokotronis in particular made a point of always addressing his revolutionary troops as Hellenes and invariably wore a helmet of ancient Greek style.\n\nGeneral Makrygiannis tells of a priest who performed his duty in front of the \"Romans\" (civilians) but secretly spied on the \"Hellenes\" (fighters). \"Roman\" almost came to be associated with passiveness and enslavement, and \"Hellene\" brought back the memory of ancient glories and the fight for freedom. Eyewitness historian writes that while the Turkish authorities and colonists in Niokastro had surrendered to the advancing Greek army, reportedly, shouts of defiance were made that led to their massacre by the mob: \"They spoke to the petty and small Hellenes as 'Romans'. It was as if they called them 'slaves'! The Hellenes not bearing to hear the word, for it reminded of their situation and the outcome of tyranny...\"\n\nThe citizens of the newly independent state were called \"Hellenes\" making the connection with ancient Greece all the more clear. That in turn also fostered a fixation on antiquity and negligence for the other periods of history, especially the Byzantine Empire, for an age that bore different names and was a devisor to different and in many ways more important legacies. The classicist trend was soon balanced by the Greek Great Idea that sought to recover Constantinople and reestablish the Byzantine Empire for all Greeks. As the Minister of Foreign Affairs proclaimed in front of Parliament in 1844, \"The Kingdom of Greece is not Greece; it is only part of it, a small and poor part of Greece... There are two great centers of Hellenism. Athens is the capital of the Kingdom. Constantinople is the great capital, the City, dream and hope of all Greeks.\"\n\nIn some social situations Greeks can react negatively or be offended if the word Γραικός (\"Greek\") is used in a situation where in the modern Greek language the word Έλληνας (\"Hellene\") is considered the right word to use. Both words have a positive meaning in the Greek language if they are used in the preferred context.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11264064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11264064", "title": "Perri O'Shaughnessy", "text": "Perri O'Shaughnessy\n\nPerri O'Shaughnessy is the pen name for two sisters, Mary and Pamela O'Shaughnessy, who live in Northern California. Pamela, a Harvard Law School graduate, was a trial lawyer for sixteen years. Mary is a former editor and writer for multimedia projects. Their novels have been translated into many languages including Dutch, German, Bulgarian, French, Spanish, and Japanese. Several have been New York Times bestsellers.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42207096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42207096", "title": "Peter Fagg", "text": "Peter Fagg\n\nPeter Fagg (January 14, 1837 – December 10, 1917) was an American law enforcement officer, retail clerk, debt collector, temperance lecturer, colporteur, and politician from Milwaukee and Madison, Wisconsin who served a single term as a member of the Wisconsin State Assembly's 2nd Milwaukee County district (the 2nd Ward of the City of Milwaukee). He was a member of the Reform Party, a short-lived coalition of Democrats, reform and Liberal Republicans, and Grangers formed in 1873 in the U.S. state of Wisconsin, which had secured the election for two years of William Robert Taylor as Governor of Wisconsin, as well as electing a number of state legislators, but failed to thrive.\n\nFagg was born as Pieter Fagg in Vlissingen in the Kingdom of the Netherlands on January 14, 1837, son of Captain Johannes Gerardus Fagg (Zierikzee, 1804) son of John Fagg and Jacoba Johanna van der Tollen), who came of Scotch and English ancestors and Sara Jacoba Smith (Vlissingen, 1813). The captain was a ship owner, sailor, and merchant who owned a large grocery business in Vlissengen. His mother, Sarah Jacoba Smith, was a Vlissingen native from a prominent local family of English and Dutch ancestry and of a prominent family of the place. Captain Fagg never learned the Dutch language, speaking only English.\n\nJohn Fagg died at the age of 34, and for two years his mother managed the business. She again married on March 5, 1841, this time to Frederick T. Zetteler, a son of the royal tailor. A few years after Sarah's second marriage and after the second bankruptcy of her husband the whole family came to the United States, taking passage at Antwerp on a sailing ship that landed them at New York City. They proceeded to Albany, New York and thence by canals and the Great Lakes to Milwaukee, landing July 3, 1848, and there they settled down on a farm. In 1853 Zetteler moved the family to Madison and opened a general store. The mother and children ran the store and the father worked for official offices of the State, including the Secretary of State of Wisconsin and the State Register of Deeds, and Peter worked in the office of former Governor Leonard J. Farwell. In 1858, a fire destroyed all of the family's property, and Zetteler returned to Milwaukee and went into the real estate business.\n\nPeter married Fyistke Fillma (called \"Mary\") on May 3, 1859. They moved to Alto in Fond du Lac County in 1861, where he worked as a retail clerk in a general store. Fagg was elected a justice of the peace in Alto, and county supervisor for the same place, in 1862, and re-elected. In 1863 his stepfather was elected (as a Democrat) to the State Assembly back in Milwaukee.\n\nFagg was appointed as a prison guard in the Wisconsin State Prison in 1865; then returned to Milwaukee in 1867, where he was appointed a police officer under Chief William Beck. He became a deputy sheriff under Sheriffs Parsons and McDonald, and resigned in October, 1873. He worked as a notary public and debt collector.\n\nIn 1874 he was elected to succeed fellow Reformer Joseph Hamilton (who was not a candidate) under the label of \"Democratic Reform.\" He won with 995 votes, to 451 for Thomas Armstrong, who ran as an \"Independent Republican\". He was re-elected the next year as an \"Independent Democrat\" (the Reform Party was beginning to break down), with 763 votes to 534 for regular Democrat George Tyre, serving with his stepfather Frederick Zetteler, who had just been elected once again to the Assembly from Milwaukee as a Democrat. Due to the division of the Assembly, no single party could assemble a majority. Fagg was persuaded to support Republican Sam Fifield for Speaker of the House. Fagg switched his vote and his influence, thus enabling the Republicans to control the Assembly. From that time on, he supported the Republican party cause, especially among his fellow Dutch Americans.\n\nFagg was not a candidate for re-election in 1876, and was succeeded by Hamilton (now running as a Democrat).\n\nFagg became briefly postmaster of the Wisconsin State Senate, then with the help of Republican Governor William E. Smith moved on to a clerical position in the office of the Wisconsin Board of Commissioners of Public Lands, where he remained for nine years. In 1886, he was not reappointed due to his increasingly fervent religious and temperance movement positions. Fagg had been a teetotaler for many years, and increasingly argued that the only acceptable place for him in political matters was as a lecturer for the cause of Prohibition. He became a sale agent for books and Bibles. He was active in a number of fraternal orders, held high office in the Independent Order of Good Templars' Temple of Honor and Temperance and the Knights of Pythias, and for years was a member of the Independent Order of Odd Fellows.\n\nBy 1895, Fagg was reported to have suffered financial reversals, and to be working as day labor at the Wisconsin State Capitol building. Fagg died in 1917.\n"}
{"id": "8157884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8157884", "title": "Petru Dugulescu", "text": "Petru Dugulescu\n\nPetru Dugulescu (; November 18, 1945 – January 3, 2008) was a Romanian Baptist pastor, poet, and politician. A member of the Baptist Union of Romania and a representative of the Christian-Democratic National Peasants' Party (Romania) (PNȚCD), he played a part in the 1989 Revolution, being among the organizers of protests in Timişoara.\n\nBorn in Chelmac, Arad County, Dugulescu graduated from the Baptist Theological Seminary in Bucharest, and became a pastor, while authoring works of Christian poetry. During a period when the Communist regime engaged in the persecution of Baptists, he was kept under surveillance by the secret police (the Securitate). The latter institution pressured him to stop preaching, and threatened that he was to suffer a car accident were he to refuse; Dugulescu refused to comply. In September 1985, an unmarked bus crashed into the car he was driving, causing the pastor to suffer multiple fractures. Dugulescu's autobiography, \"Ei mi-au programat moartea\" (\"They Programmed My Death\", translated into English under the title \"Repenters\"), details this interval and includes his own account of the events.\n\nFollowing the Revolution, Petru Dugulescu joined the PNȚ, and was elected to the Chamber of Deputies for Timiş County during the 1992 suffrage, and again in the 1996 election. He served on the Committee for Human Rights, Religious Affairs and National Minority Issues, as well as on the Committee for Foreign Policy. He was the founder and president of Charity Foundation Jesus the Hope of Romania and Onesimus Brothers House for street children in Timişoara.\n\nDugulescu turned in his last book (\"Democrație și Persecuție\", \"Democracy and Persecution\") for publication on December 20, 2007, and on the afternoon of January 3, 2008 he suffered a fatal heart attack.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11353578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11353578", "title": "Priyanshu Chatterjee", "text": "Priyanshu Chatterjee\n\nPriyanshu Chatterjee is an Indian film actor and former model known for his works in Bollywood, and Bengali cinema. He made his Hindi film debut in the box-office success \"Tum Bin\" in 2001. His other recognized work includes \"Aapko Pehle Bhi Kahin Dekha Hai\", \"Dil Ka Rishta\", \"Pinjar\", \"Bhootnath\" and \"Baadshaho\".\n\nPriyanshu Chatterjee started his modelling career working with projects such as Digjam's Print Campaign, Wills Cigarettes, Levi's and Four Square. Following this, he appeared in a Udit Narayan music video . Chatterjee made his acting debut with \"Tum Bin\" (2001), a romantic drama. Bollywood Hungama while reviewing \"Tum Bin\", wrote of Chatterjee's performance \"Priyanshu has the meatier role and he performs it with utmost sincerity.\" After the success of \"Tum Bin\", the director of the film, Anubhav Sinha, decided to cast Priyanshu Chatterjee in his next project, which was \"Aapko Pehle Bhi Kahin Dekha Hai\", co-starring Sakshi Shivanand, Om Puri and Farida Jalal. In the same year, he starred in two more films; \"Dil Ka Rishta\", co-starring Aishwarya Rai and the other film being \"Pinjar\", which once again starred Sandali Sinha. In 2004, he starred in three unsuccessful films; \"Woh\", \"Julie\" and \"Madhoshi\". In 2008, he got a small role in the multi-starrer \"Bhoothnath\", where he played the son of Bhoothnath, portrayed by Amitabh Bachchan. In 2015, he was seen in a cameo in \"Hate Story 3\".\n"}
{"id": "55746312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55746312", "title": "Proscovia Nabbanja", "text": "Proscovia Nabbanja\n\nProscovia Nabbanja is a Ugandan geologist and corporate executive, who serves as the Chief Operating Officer (Upstream) of the Uganda National Oil Company, since November 2016. Prior to that, she served as a Senior Geologist at the Petroleum Exploration and Production Department (PEPD), in the Uganda Ministry of Energy and Mineral Development, the first woman to hold that position.\n\nShe was educated at Makerere University, Uganda's oldest and largest public university, graduating with a Bachelor of Science in Geology and Chemistry. Later, she obtained a Master of Science in Petroleum Geoscience, from the Imperial College of Science, Technology and Medicine, in London, United Kingdom. She also holds a Master of Business Administration awarded by the Imperial College Business School, obtained in 2017. Her Certificate in International Petroleum, Oil and Gas Management was awarded by the Institute for Petroleum Management Inc., in Austin, Texas, United States.\n\nNabbanja was hired by PEPD in 2000, right out of Makerere University, being the first female technical staff to be employed there. Over the years, she was promoted and as of May 2013, she was at the rank of Senior Geologist. In that capacity, she supervises a team of professionals who review the technical proposals from the oil companies, on all oil wells-related issues. The data that her team collects is used to estimate how much oil and gas lies beneath the ground in the country. For a period of nineteen months, from April 2015 until October 2016, Nabbanja served as Acting Principal Geologist at PEPD, the position she left to join UNOC. \n\nProscovia Nabbanja is a married mother of three children.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58482708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58482708", "title": "Práxedes Fajardo", "text": "Práxedes Fajardo\n\nPráxedes Fajardo y Puno (21 July 1874 – 10 August 1928) was a Philippine revolutionary and head of the Pampangan section of the Philippine Red Cross during the anticolonial armed struggles against Spain and the United States.\n\nFajardo was born in Bacólor to Justino Fajardo and Andrea Puno. Educated at La Consolación in Manila, she would later be known for her organizational acumen as head of the Philippine Red Cross in Pampanga. She had been sent along with Nicolasa Dayrit Panlilio to mediate between generals Antonio Luna and Tomás Mascardo.\n\nFajardo remained unmarried throughout her life, instead opting to take care of her sister Florencia Gutiérrez’ family.\n"}
{"id": "1298107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1298107", "title": "R. C. Sherriff", "text": "R. C. Sherriff\n\nRobert Cedric Sherriff, FSA, FRSL (6 June 1896 – 13 November 1975) was an English writer best known for his play \"Journey's End\", which was based on his experiences as an army officer in the First World War. He wrote several plays, novels, and screenplays, and was nominated for an Academy Award and two BAFTA awards.\n\nSherriff was born in Hampton Wick, Middlesex, to insurance clerk Herbert Hankin Sherriff and Constance Winder. He was educated at Kingston Grammar School in Kingston upon Thames from 1905-1913.\n\nAfter he left school, Sherriff worked in an insurance office as a clerk (from 1914) and as an insurance adjuster (1918 to 1928) at Sun Insurance Company, London. Sherriff served as an officer in the 9th battalion of the East Surrey Regiment in the First World War, taking part in the fighting at Vimy Ridge and Loos. He was severely wounded at Passchendaele near Ypres in 1917.\n\nSherriff studied at New College, Oxford from 1931 to 1934. He was a fellow of the Royal Society of Literature and the Society of Antiquaries of London.\n\nHe first wrote a play to help Kingston Rowing Club raise money to buy a new boat. His seventh play, \"Journey's End\", was written in 1928 and published in 1929 and was based on his experiences in the war. It was given a single Sunday performance, on 9 December 1928, by the Incorporated Stage Society at the Apollo Theatre, directed by James Whale and with the 21-year-old Laurence Olivier in the lead role. In the audience was Maurice Browne who produced it at the Savoy Theatre where it was performed for two years from 1929.\n\nSherriff also wrote prose. A novelised version of \"Journey's End\", co-written with Vernon Bartlett, was published in 1930. His 1939 novel, \"The Hopkins Manuscript\" is an H. G. Wells-influenced post-apocalyptic story about an earth devastated because of a collision with the Moon. Its sober language and realistic depiction of an average man coming to terms with a ruined England is said to have been an influence on later science fiction authors such as John Wyndham and Brian Aldiss. \"The Fortnight in September\", an earlier novel, published in 1931, is a rather more plausible story about a Bognor holiday enjoyed by a lower-middle-class family from Dulwich. His 1936 novel \"Green Gates\" is a realistic novel about a middle-aged couple, Tom and Edith Baldwin, moving from an established London suburb into the then-new suburbs of Metro-land.\n\nSherriff was nominated along with Eric Maschwitz and Claudine West for an Academy award for writing an adapted screenplay for \"Goodbye, Mr. Chips\" which was released in 1939. His 1955 screenplays, \"The Dam Busters\" and \"The Night My Number Came Up\" were nominated for best British screenplay BAFTA awards.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19652020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19652020", "title": "Rani Karnavati", "text": "Rani Karnavati\n\nRani Karnavati also known as Rani Karmavati (died 8 March 1535), was a princess and temporary ruler from Bundi, India. She was married to Rana Sanga of Chittorgarh, the capital of Mewar Kingdom. She was the mother of the next two Ranas, Rana Vikramaditya and Rana Uday Singh, and grandmother of the legendary Maharana Pratap. She served as regent during the minority of her son, from 1527 until 1533.\n\nAfter Babur had captured the throne of Delhi in 1526 AD, Rana Sangram Singh or Rana Sanga of Mewar lead a confederation of Rajput Kings against Babur to capture the throne of Delhi. But in The Battle of Khanua in 1527, the combined Hindu forces were defeated, and Rana Sanga died shortly afterward from his wounds.\n\nRani Karnavati took up the regency in the name of her elder son Vikramaditya, a weak ruler. In the meantime, Mewar was attacked for the second time by Bahadur Shah of Gujarat, at whose hands Vikramaditya had earlier received a defeat. It was a matter of great concern for Rani.\n\nThe antagonized nobles were not ready to fight for Vikramaditya and the imminent battle was sure to be another blot in the history of Sisodias. Rani Karnavati wrote to the nobles to come forward for the sake of the honour of the Sisodias, and was able to persuade the nobles to fight for Mewar, if not for Vikramaditya. Their sole condition was that Vikramaditya and Uday Singh should go to Bundi during the war for their personal safety. Rani also sent a Rakhi to Mughal Emperor Humayun, calling him a brother and asking for help. Thus her name became irrevocably linked to the festival of Raksha Bandhan.\n\nRani Karnavati agreed to send her sons to Bundi and told her trusted maid Panna Dai to accompany them and take good care of them. Panna was reluctant, but surrendered to the wishes of the queen, when she assured her that with the renewed support of the nobles and the expected help from Humayun, all would be well. However, tidings from Chittor were not good and the Sisodias had fought valiantly, but they were outnumbered and the war was lost. Humayun who was on Bengal's invasion responded graciously and assured his assistance to Rani Karnawati, which could make Rajputs favorable towards Mughals, he left the Bengal expedition midway but he could not reach Chittor on time. Bahadur Shah entered Chittorgarh and ransacked it for the second time. Realising that defeat was imminent, Karnavati and the other noble ladies of the court immolated themselves in a mass suicide by fire known as Jauhar on March 8, 1535 A.D., while all the men donned saffron clothes and went out to fight to the death and thus committed saka. This is the occasion for the second of the three Jauhars performed at Chittor. Humayun though late, avenged the death of Karnavati by capturing Mandu from Bahadur Shah in 1535. According to modern historians, Humayun was persuaded by his advisors to not go against a fellow muslim ruler for a kafir. Humayun thus waited for Chittor to fall and then used the situation as an excuse to invade Gujarat.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34202848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34202848", "title": "Romanian presidential election, 1974", "text": "Romanian presidential election, 1974\n\nA presidential election was held in the Socialist Republic of Romania on 28 March 1974. \n\nNicolae Ceaușescu was elected by the Great National Assembly as the President of Romania on 28 March 1974; he was the only candidate. On April 4, 1974, the Communist Party daily \"Scînteia\" published a congratulatory telegram, in which Salvador Dalí actually mocked Ceauşescu on his \"introducing the presidential scepter\". Being successively re-elected, Ceaușescu served as the president until 22 December 1989.\n\n"}
{"id": "52874221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52874221", "title": "Sangeita Chauhan", "text": "Sangeita Chauhan\n\nSangeita Chauhan is an Indian actress. She was born in Vapi, Gujarat, India. She has starred in a few South Indian films, including \"Sharp Shooter\" and \"Luv U Alia\". She plays the lead in the Hindi Colors TV show, \"Ek Shringaar-Swabhiman\".\n\nSangeita Chauhan is a Gujarati from Vapi, Gujarat.\n\n"}
{"id": "56712014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56712014", "title": "Scott Westgarth", "text": "Scott Westgarth\n\nScott Westgarth (27 July 1986 – 25 February 2018) was a British light heavyweight boxer. He died on 25 February 2018 at the age of 31 after sustaining injuries following a victory in a 10-round light heavyweight bout during a Saturday night clash. Westgarth's final fight was widely considered to be the biggest victory of his career.\n\nWestgarth boxed 10 matches in his professional career, ending with 7 victories and only 2 losses before his death. He fought in his final bout on 24 February 2018 against Dec Spelman. This was a 10-round light heavyweight eliminator in Doncaster. He defeated Spelman in the elimination match on points and was looking to try to win the English national championship.\n\nDuring the final round of the fight against Spelman, Westgarth was knocked down, but was able to recover to ultimately win on points. He went on to conduct a post-match interview before consulting doctors in the dressing room. They sent him to Royal Hallamshire Hospital in an ambulance after concerns for his well-being. During the interview Westgarth held his wrapped hand to his head above his left eye a number of times, suggesting he was in some discomfort.\n\nWestgarth died the next day, 25 February 2018. Several people, including his final opponent, paid tribute to him. Westgarth was a registered organ donor, and as a result, his organs were used to save the lives of seven people.\n\n"}
{"id": "51152307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51152307", "title": "Selda and Derek", "text": "Selda and Derek\n\nSelda and Derek are an American songwriting duo, consisting of Selda Sahin (lyrics) and Derek Gregor (music), best known as the songwriters of the musical film Grind, starring Anthony Rapp, Claire Coffee and Pasha Pellosie. They co-wrote Eric Michael Krop's pop album \"Greater Things\". \n\nIn 2014, Selda and Derek composed the music for the short film \"Grind\". The film is based on the popular hook-up app Grindr and stars Anthony Rapp.\n\n\nSeveral of Selda and Derek's songs have been recognized as \"Ones To Watch\" by the Nashville Songwriters Association International, and their song \"The Storm\" was a finalist in the Great American Song Contest.\n\n"}
{"id": "842178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=842178", "title": "Shafi Goldwasser", "text": "Shafi Goldwasser\n\nShafrira \"Shafi\" Goldwasser () is an American-Israeli computer scientist and winner of the Turing Award in 2012. She is the RSA Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at MIT, a professor of mathematical sciences at the Weizmann Institute of Science, Israel, co-founder and chief scientist of Duality Technologies and the director of the Simons Institute for the Theory of Computing in Berkeley, CA.\n\nBorn in New York City, Goldwasser obtained her B.S. (1979) in mathematics and science from Carnegie Mellon University, and M.S. (1981) and PhD (1984) in computer science from the University of California, Berkeley under the supervision of Manuel Blum, who is well known for advising some of the most prominent researchers in the field. She joined MIT in 1983, and in 1997 became the first holder of the RSA Professorship. She became a professor at the Weizmann Institute of Science, concurrent to her professorship at MIT, in 1993. She is a member of the Theory of Computation group at MIT Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory. Goldwasser was a co-recipient of the 2012 Turing Award. \nOn January 1, 2018, Goldwasser became the director of the Simons Institute for the Theory of Computing at the University of California, Berkeley.\n\nSince November 2016, Goldwasser is Chief Scientist and Co-Founder of Duality Technologies, an Israeli-American start-up which offers secure data analytics using advanced cryptographic techniques. She is also a scientific advisor for several technology start ups in the security area, including QED-it, specializing in the Zero Knowledge Blockchain, and Algorand, a Proof-of-stake Blockchain.\n\nGoldwasser's research areas include computational complexity theory, cryptography and computational number theory. \nShe is the co-inventor of probabilistic encryption, which set up and achieved the gold standard for security for data encryption. \nShe is the co-inventor of zero-knowledge proofs, which probabilistically and interactively demonstrate the validity of an assertion without conveying any additional knowledge, and are a key tool in the design of cryptographic protocols. Her work in complexity theory includes the classification of approximation problems, showing that some problems in NP remain hard even when only an approximate solution is needed, and pioneering methods for delegating computations to untrusted servers. Her work in number theory, includes the invention with Joe Kilian of primality proving using elliptic curves.\n\nGoldwasser was awarded the 2012 Turing Award along with Silvio Micali for their work in the field of cryptography.\nGoldwasser has twice won the Gödel Prize in theoretical computer science: first in 1993 (for \"The knowledge complexity of interactive proof systems\"), and again in 2001 (for \"Interactive Proofs and the Hardness of Approximating Cliques\"). Other awards include the ACM Grace Murray Hopper Award (1996) for outstanding young computer professional of the year and the RSA Award in Mathematics (1998) for outstanding mathematical contributions to cryptography. In 2001 she was elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, in 2004 she was elected to the National Academy of Science, and in 2005 to the National Academy of Engineering. She was selected as an IACR Fellow in 2007. Goldwasser received the 2008-2009 Athena Lecturer Award of the Association for Computing Machinery's Committee on Women in Computing. She is the recipient of The Franklin Institute's 2010 Benjamin Franklin Medal in Computer and Cognitive Science. She received the IEEE Emanuel R. Piore Award in 2011.\nShe received the 2018 Frontier of Knowledge award together with Micali, Rivest and Shamir.\nShe was elected as an ACM Fellow in 2017. \nIn 2018, she was awarded an honorary degree by her alma mater, Carnegie Mellon University. \n"}
{"id": "1728734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1728734", "title": "Tarja Cronberg", "text": "Tarja Cronberg\n\nTarja Cronberg (née Mattila, born 29 June 1943 in Helsinki) is a Finnish Green League politician who served as a member of the European Parliament from 2011 until 2014. \nCronberg was Member of the Finnish Parliament 2003–2007. She chaired her party from 2005 until 2009 and was the Minister of Labour in the Finnish government from 2007 to 2009 as part of Matti Vanhanen's second cabinet.\n\nTarja Cronberg became MEP in 2011 by replacing Heidi Hautala who became Minister of International Development in the Finnish cabinet. During her 2011–2014 term in the EU Parliament, Cronberg was the chair of the European Parliament delegation for relations with Iran and served on the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Subcommittee on Security and Defence.\n\nCronberg was born in Helsinki, Finland and currently resides in Polvijärvi, Northern Karelia. She holds two Ph.D. degrees: in technology from Lund University, Sweden and in business administration from Copenhagen Business School, Denmark.\n\nCronberg has worked in various positions in both business and education, such as an associate professorship at the Technical University of Denmark, among others. She has long exercised political leadership in Europe's networked society. She was a Member of the Finnish Parliament from 2003 to 2007 and the Minister of Labour from 2007 to 2009. She chaired the Green League party from 2005 to 2009 and served on several parliamentary committees (foreign affairs, security and defense, employment). She was a member of the EU Competitiveness Council (2008-2009) and of the EU Employment and Social Affairs Council (2007-2009).\n\nCronberg has been involved in technology and the social sciences policy. She directed the North Karelia regional development council from 1993 to 2001 and led the Copenhagen Peace Research Institute from 2001 to 2003. She was a member of the Danish Parliament Technology Council (1986-1991) and the Norwegian Research Council dealing with IT and society (1984-1992). She was a member of the European Commission Information Society Technologies Advisory Group (ISTAG) from 1999 to 2002; chaired the EU COSTA4 Group that examined the relationship between technology and society (1992-1997) and contributed to the VALUE think-tank that focused on the interaction between research and society (1993-1994).\n\nThe focal point in Cronberg's work in recent times has been peace and security. After the Cold War she worked both in Russia and in the US studying the conversion of military industries into civilian uses. Together with Stanford University and the Perm Technical University she and her team studied the transformation processes mainly in the aerospace industry. As the Regional Director of North Karelia she was instrumental in establishing \"soft borders\" between Finnish border regions and the Karelian Republic on the Russian side. Her work led to the establishment of Euregio Karelia, a cross-border region with common development programmes and projects. Later, as the director of COPRI, Copenhagen Peace Research Institute she was involved in the further development of the Copenhagen School of Security Studies, doing also work on missile defence and dual-use technologies. In her political work she has specialised in defence and security matters, lately in questions of nuclear disarmament. Her choice of committees in the EU Parliament reflects these interests, as does her work as the Chair of the Parliament's delegation for relations with Iran.\n\nIn addition to her native Finnish, Cronberg is fluent in Danish, English, French, German, Russian and Swedish.\nShe was diagnosed with breast cancer at the turn of the year 2008/2009.\n\n"}
{"id": "4154371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4154371", "title": "Vaino Väljas", "text": "Vaino Väljas\n\nVaino Väljas (born 28 March 1931 in Külaküla, Hiiumaa) is a former Soviet politician. He was the Chairman of the 6th Supreme Soviet of the Estonian SSR from 18 April 1963 to 19 March 1967, first secretary of communist party of Estonian Soviet Socialist Republic from 16 June 1988 to April 1990 and chairman of the party from April 1990 to August 1991.\n\nSince Väljas was considered to have Estonian nationalist inclinations, he was removed from Estonia and appointed as the Soviet ambassador to Venezuela in 1980 and Nicaragua in 1986. As the Estonian independence movement gained momentum in 1988, the relatively liberal Väljas was recalled from Nicaragua and was appointed by Gorbachev as leader of the Estonian Communist Party. The Communist party lost its monopoly of power in February 1990. Väljas later voted for the Estonian restoration of Independence in August 1990.\n\nVäljas was the leader of the former Communist party, renamed the Democratic Estonian Workers Party, until 1995.\n"}
{"id": "5475409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5475409", "title": "Vilhelm Herman Oluf Madsen", "text": "Vilhelm Herman Oluf Madsen\n\nVilhelm Herman Oluf Madsen (11 April 1844 – 14 June 1917), was a Danish politician, minister, army officer, businessman and inventor. He was War Minister in the Ministry Deuntzer 1901-1905. Madsen was the father of the physician Thorvald Madsen.\n\nHe began his military career in 1859 and served in the Second War of Schleswig of 1864 as a lieutenant. In 1896, at the rank of colonel, Madsen was responsible for the adoption of the Madsen machine gun by the Danish army in 1902 and widely exported. He also constructed the Madsen 20 mm anti-aircraft cannon.\n\nAs War Minister of Denmark in the Cabinet of Deuntzer from 1901 to 1905 he supported the Fortification of Copenhagen and this contributed to the conflict that led to the split of the Venstre Reform Party as the left wing of the party left the party in protest to form the Radikale Venstre.\n\nHe became a general in 1903 and was elected to the Folketing in 1909. He was interested in mathematics and was the president of Danish Mathematical Society from 1903 to 1910.\n\n"}
{"id": "1436159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1436159", "title": "Wee Peem", "text": "Wee Peem\n\nWee Peem (\"He's a Proper Scream\") was a British comic strip, created by James Jewell. It ran in \"The Beano\" from 1938 on and ceased publication in 1957.\n\nThe series was first published in the first issue of the comic book magazine \"The Beano\" , dated July 30, 1938, and ran until the 89th issue, dated April 6, 1940. This first incarnation also appeared in the 1940 and 1941 Beano Books.\n\nThe central character \"Wee Peem\" was a young boy who gets up to various forms of mischief in a similar way to later Beano strips such as Dennis the Menace and Minnie the Minx. The name \"Peem\" is commonly a diminutive form of \"James\" in North East Scotland.\n\nThese first Wee Peem strips were later reprinted in D.C. Thomson's magazine-cum-newspaper The People's Journal which were followed by new Wee Peem strips in The People's Journal this time drawn by James Malcolm. The character then reappeared in issue 486, dated 10 November 1951, this time drawn by Charles Grigg, in a new strip entitled \"Wee Peem's Magic Pills\" in this new strip the character was redesigned to have a massive head and took pills which gave him magic powers. This new strip lasted until issue 507, dated 5 April 1952, and appeared in the 1953 Beano Book. The character then reappeared for a third and final time in 1956 in a new strip this time simply entitled Wee Peem. In this final Wee Peem strip, drawn by Hugh Morren, the character was redesigned yet again and this final Wee Peem comic strip lasted until 1957.\n\nA similar character in both appearance and mannerisms appeared in the first Dandy Monster Comic under the name Dipper the Dodger.\n"}
{"id": "8474233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8474233", "title": "William and Jean Eckart", "text": "William and Jean Eckart\n\nWilliam and Jean Eckart were a husband-and-wife team of theatre designers in the 1950s and 1960s. They designed sets, costumes, and lighting for many productions, including \"Mame\", \"Here's Love\", \"Damn Yankees\", \"Once Upon a Mattress\", \"The Fig Leaves Are Falling\", and \"The Golden Apple\".\n\nWilliam Eckart was born October 21, 1920 in New Iberia, Louisiana and died on January 24, 2000 in Dallas, Texas, aged 79. His wife Jean was born on August 18, 1921 in Glencoe, Illinois and died on September 6, 1993, aged 72.\n\nThe couple received three Tony Award nominations: for Best Scenic Design of a Musical for \"Fiorello!\" and Best Musical (as producers) for \"Once Upon a Mattress\" in 1960 and\nfor Best Scenic Design for \"Mame\" in 1966.\n\nThe couple taught at Southern Methodist University after their Broadway careers ended.\n\nIn 2006, a book entitled \"The Performing Set: The Broadway Designs of William and Jean Eckart\" by Andrew Harris was published. It includes sketches from every show the Eckarts designed.\n\n"}
{"id": "31578852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31578852", "title": "Women in Myanmar", "text": "Women in Myanmar\n\nHistorically, women in Myanmar (also known as Burma) have had a unique social status and esteemed women in Burmese society. According to the research done by Mya Sein, Burmese women \"for centuries – even before recorded history\" owned a \"high measure of independence\" and had retained their \"legal and economic rights\" despite the influences of Buddhism and Hinduism. Burma once had a matriarchal system that includes the exclusive right to inherit oil wells and the right to inherit the position as village head. Burmese women were also appointed to high offices by Burmese kings, can become chieftainesses and queens.\n\nThe \"htamein\" ( ) is one of the traditional dresses of Burmese women. This skirtcloth or lower body wrapper was worn by women during the Konbaung Dynasty (1752–1855) as a wrap-around skirt, or sometimes as a folded clothing material placed \"tightly across the abdomen slightly left center of the waist\". In comparison, Burmese men wore the traditional lower garment known as the \"pahso\" ( ).\n\nMarriages were previously allowed between Burmese women and male foreigners provided that the divisional courts in Burma were informed within 21 days of advance notice. However, in May 2010, the government of Burma disallowed conducting of marriage ceremonies between Burmese women and male foreigners. One of the suggested reasons was to avoid human trafficking. Burmese women became victims of human traffickers and were traded for the sex industry in Pakistan and Thailand.\n\nTo some extent, arranged marriages was also a part of Burmese tradition, however, the Burmese women have the right to refuse the offer of being betrothed to the parents' chosen partner for her. At present, young Burmese women can choose to marry someone for love.\n\nIn 2000, the Asian Women's Resource Exchange (AWORC) published a report entitled \"Human Rights in Burma\" from the \"Forum News\" (August 1998) describing that by tradition, Burmese women are maternal self-abnegators, meaning that these women \"consistently forgo their own needs in order to give their children first priority.\" The report also indicated that rural and urban Burmese women were affected by the deteriorating economic climate in Burma.\n\nAs a result, Burmese families were \"increasingly prioritising the rights of males over females to limited resources.\" These changes affected the access of Burmese women to nutrition, medical services, vocational training, and other educational opportunities. Burmese women became unwilling porters and unpaid labourers for the military, including becoming victims of slavery, murder, torture, rape, and attacks. \n\nHistorically, urban Burmese women \"enjoyed high levels of social power\" but later became confronted with restrictions on speech and limitations in acquiring high level positions in both private and public offices. According to AWORC, only a few number of Burmese women receive education related to reproductive rights and safe birth control practices, thus making them prone to being infected by HIV and AIDS.\n\nIn January 2008, BBC News featured Burmese Kayan Lahwi women who became tourist attractions in Thailand because of the tradition of wearing coils of brass around their necks. The rings of brass push the \"women's shoulders and ribs down\" throughout several years giving the effect as if the necks had been stretched, thus described as sporting \"unnaturally long, giraffe-like necks.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1731872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1731872", "title": "Yuriy Lutsenko", "text": "Yuriy Lutsenko\n\nYuriy Vitaliyovych Lutsenko (; born 14 December 1964) is a Ukrainian politician and the current Prosecutor General of Ukraine (since 12 May 2016).\n\nLutsenko is a former Minister of Internal Affairs. He occupied this post in the two cabinets of Yulia Tymoshenko and in cabinets of Yuriy Yekhanurov, and Viktor Yanukovych. The Ministry of Internal Affairs is the Ukrainian police authority, and Lutsenko became the first civilian minister in February 2005.<ref name=\"150/2005\"></ref> Lutsenko is also a former leader of the Bloc of Petro Poroshenko party and a former leader of its faction in parliament.\n\nOn 13 December 2010 Lutsenko was charged with abuse of office and forgery by Prosecutor General of Ukraine Viktor Pshonka. On 27 February 2012 Lutsenko was sentenced to four years in jail for embezzlement and abuse of office. Lutsenko was held at the Lukyanivska Prison from 26 December 2010 until 7 April 2013 when he was released from prison because Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovych pardoned him (among others) for health reasons. Both Lutsenko and his political allies regard his trial as an act of political persecution by the regime of Viktor Yanukovych. The European Union, the United States Department of State, Canada, human rights organizations, and other international organizations protested against the sentence and questioned whether it was a \"fair, transparent and independent legal process\".\n\nLutsenko's wife Iryna Lutsenko is a current member of the Ukrainian parliament.\n\nLutsenko was born in Rivne. His father was Vitaliy Ivanovych Lutsenko (15 March 1937 – 4 June 1999), who was elected people's deputy of Ukraine in 1994 and 1998, and secretary of the Central Committee of Communist Party of Ukraine. Lutsenko's mother is Vira Mikhailivna (born 1936), a veterinarian.\n\nLutsenko earned his degree in engineering in 1989 from Lviv Polytechnical Institute.\n\nLutsenko gained public fame as one of the leaders of the Ukraine without Kuchma! campaign, which followed the Cassette Scandal of 2000. He was also one of the \"faces of the Orange revolution\". From 1991, Lutsenko was a long-term member of the Socialist Party of Ukraine (SPU); prior to his appointment to the executive branch, he was people's deputy in the Verkhovna Rada (the Ukrainian parliament) beginning in February 2002. Lutsenko belonged to the so-called \"right wing\" of SPU, which takes a pro-European position akin to social democratic parties in the rest of Europe, rather than a post-Soviet conservative socialism.\n\nAs a Minister, Lutsenko refused to run in the 2006 parliamentary election on his party list. However, he has run for both the Kiev City Council and Rivne Oblast Council simultaneously in the lists of the Socialist Party – \"to make the point\", as he explained. Having won these seats, Lutsenko resigned from both in favor of his Minister's position as the Constitution of Ukraine prohibits occupying positions in the legislative and executive branches of the government at the same time.\n\nAfter his appointment as a minister, Lutsenko suspended his membership of the SPU in the summer of 2006 as a result of the party leader Oleksandr Moroz's entering into a Parliamentary coalition with the Communist Party of Ukraine and the Party of Regions of the previous PM Yanukovych. When the Parliamentary coalition of the Party of Regions, the Communists, and the defected Socialists began to take shape, Lutsenko stated flatly that he refused to continue serving as the minister in a future government formed by these parties. However, after President Viktor Yushchenko agreed to allow the forming of the cabinet in exchange for several political concessions including the ability to pick the Minister of Interior, Lutsenko stated that the president asked him personally to remain as the minister, and he would do so.\n\nLutsenko was formally dismissed by the Verkhovna Rada on 1 December 2006. Lutsenko then (December 2006) created Civil Movement \"People's Self-Defense\".\n\n18 December 2007 Lutsenko again became minister of Internal Affairs, when Yulia Tymoshenko was again elected Prime Minister of Ukraine.\n\nIn early May 2009 Lutsenko became entangled in a scandal concerning his behaviour during a visit to Germany. According to German newspaper Bild Lutsenko was detained at Frankfurt Airport by the German police in a state of acute alcohol intoxication. The Ukrainian Interior Ministry dismissed these allegations. According to the information of the Ministry, on 4 May 2009 the Interior Ministry's delegation was detained at the Frankfurt airport during document checks, and missed the flight. The flight crew refused to take them on board. The delegation decided to catch the next flight. \"There were no handcuffs, no drunken conflict,\" the department said. On 12 May 2009 Yuri Lutsenko sent in his resignation from the post of interior minister. In his letter of resignation the Minister described the incident that happened in Frankfurt, and stressed that the German police had officially apologized to the Ukrainian delegation for this incident; but that despite this, German mass media disseminated false publications, which were later re-published by Ukrainian media. He said none of these publications mentioned the apologies of the German police. Lutsenko was confident that a dirty campaign had been waged against him in Ukraine. The aim of the campaign, according to him, was to destabilize the work of the Interior Ministry.\n\nThe Ukrainian Parliament has to agree with the resignation of a Minister before the Minister can leave her/his post. On 15 May 2009 it passed a resolution, stipulating to address the government with a request to suspend Yuri Lutsenko from the post of the Interior Minister of Ukraine until the \"drunken incident\" is investigated.\n\nFrom 12 May 2009 till 14 May 2009 and again on 15 May 2009 faction members of the oppositional Party of Regions blocked the Ukrainian parliament's rostrum and presidium demanding the resignation of Lutsenko. They placed (in the session hall) posters with inscriptions: \"A Drunkard Minister is a shame for Ukraine\", \"Drunk policeman is a criminal\" and \"Drunk Minister –a politician?\".\n\nLater, on 12 May 2009, Lutsenko claimed he would sue Bild. According to Lutsenko, the publication does not contain \"any true things, any references to documents or real officials\".\n\nPresident Viktor Yushchenko considered his appeal for resignation \"a logical step, which should be made ... There was an incident which damaged the reputation of the state, the government and the minister himself. It must be settled with due regard for the interests of the nation and the country\". Prime Minister Yulia Tymoshenko believed that the information about the incident is doubtful. \"I may state that the son of the Interior Minister is a child ill with cancer; he underwent a very serious operation. This child is taking special medicines that are incompatible with alcohol drinking. Besides, no tests were made. I'm confident that this child had nothing in common at all with alcohol. And this untruth, which was publicized many times, casts doubt upon the whole information\". The Party of Regions faction insisted on accepting the resignation of Lutsenko without getting any proof of the incident at Frankfurt airport. The Yulia Tymoshenko Bloc faction refused to support the resignation of the interior minister without any proof concerning the incident. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has asked Germany for official information about the incident, but got no response.\n\nOn 15 May 2009 the Ukrainian parliament passed a resolution asking the government to hold a seven-day official investigation into the events at Frankfurt Airport (first deputy [interior] minister Mykhailo Kliuyev served as acting Minister that period). After that Lutsenko resumed at his post.\n\nOn 10 June 2011 Bild retracted the report about the events at Frankfurt Airport after being ordered so by the Landgericht Berlin.\n\nLutsenko was dismissed by the Ukrainian parliament on 28 January 2010. The same day he was appointed by the Cabinet as first deputy interior minister and acting interior minister. The Kiev District Administrative Court suspended the government's decision until the end of an investigation into his appointment, but the Cabinet claimed it had not received any court ruling on the matter. After the fall of the second Tymoshenko Government Lutsenko eventually lost his post as Minister of Internal Affairs on 11 March 2010.\n\nIn 2010 Lutsenko became the leader of the party People's Self-Defense Political Party.\n\nOn 13 December 2010 Lutsenko was charged with abuse of office and forgery by Prosecutor General of Ukraine Viktor Pshonka. On 5 November it was already announcement that Lutsenko faced criminal charges for an alleged financial crime involving a less than $5,000 overpayment to his driver. According to Lutsenko the criminal case against him is political persecution. Pshonka has denied this. Lutsenko was also charged with having signed an order whilst on holiday and not having cancelled the traditional \"National Militia Day\" despite a general instruction from the then Prime Minister to make budgetary savings where possible. Lutsenko has been jailed since 26 December 2010 in Kiev's Lukyanivka Prison. Lutsenko was arrested near his home on 26 December; on 27 December a court ordered his arrest on the grounds that he had been dodging questioning in violation of his written pledge not to leave Kiev. Three criminal cases opened against him where merged into one on 27 January 2011. Lutsenko went on a hunger strike from 22 April till 24 May 2011 in protest against his \"preventive punishment\".\n\nLutsenko filed a complaint in a U.S. court on 14 December 2011 against his (Ukrainian) prosecutors, made possible by the Alien Tort Statute, for \"illegal arrest and arbitrarily prolonged detention\".\n\nOn 27 February 2012, after a pre-trial detention of 14 months, Lutsenko was sentenced to fours year in jail (with confiscation of his property) for embezzlement and abuse of office. The total damages caused by Lutsenko to Ukraine's budget had been estimated at $125,000. Lutsenko immediately after his sentence stated he will appeal against sentence. The European Commission stated the day of his sentence \"signals the continuation of trials in Ukraine which do not respect international standards as regards fair, transparent and independent legal process\"; spokesperson for the United States Department of State Victoria Nuland stated the cases raised \"serious concerns about the government of Ukraine's commitment to democracy and the rule of law\"; other Council of Europe member have criticised the sentence in similar wording. In a statement issued by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe (PACE) right after the verdict of 27 February 2012 Lutsenko was named \"the victim of a political vendetta\"; the next day the President of Pace Jean-Claude Mignon called for his release. Human rights organizations have urged the high courts in Ukraine to overturn the verdict against Lutsenko. On 29 February 2012 the European People's Party demanded \"immediate release of Yulia Tymoshenko, Yuriy Lutsenko and other political prisoners; it also insisted the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union should not be signed and ratified until these demands where met. An appeal to the sentence was filed 7 March 2012. Since the EU has shelved the European Union Association Agreement and Deep and Comprehensive Free Trade Agreement with Ukraine because of the imprisonment of him and Tymoshenko.\n\nThe European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) will consider a complaint lodged by Lutsenko on 17 April 2012, Lutsenko claims his arrest and the decision on his detention were arbitrary and unlawful.\n\nOn 3 July 2012, the ECHR stated that the arrest of Lutsenko violated his human rights and the court ordered the Ukrainian government to pay 15,000 Euro to Lutsenko as compensation for moral damages.\n\nOn 17 August 2012 Lutsenko was sentenced to two years in prison for the extension of an investigative case concerning Valentyn Davydenko, the driver of former Security Service of Ukraine First Deputy Chief Volodymyr Satsiuk, as part of an investigation into the poisoning of then presidential candidate Viktor Yuschenko. He served his time in a prison in the city of Mena. During his imprisonment Lutsenko was moved several times to hospital to receive medical treatment.\n\nLutsenko lost his appeal on 3 April 2013; this High Court ruling could be challenged in any other Ukrainian court.\n\nThe judges of the Higher Specialized Court on Civil and Criminal Cases will on 10 April 2013 announce a ruling on the appeal against the second conviction of Lutsenko regarding the poisoning of former Ukrainian President Viktor Yushchenko; this will not influence the term of Lutsenko's imprisonment.\n\nAfter already having suggested it earlier President Viktor Yanukovych on 5 April 2013 proposed the presidential commission on pardons urgently to consider the request by Verkhovna Rada Human Rights Commissioner Valeriya Lutkovska to pardon Lutsenko. The requests to pardon Lutsenko was made by Ukrainian parliamentary Lutkovska, former President of the European Parliament Pat Cox and former Polish President Aleksander Kwasniewski. Lutkovska asked to pardon Lutsenko \"due to the European standards of human rights, which include providing effective medical care to persons detained in prisons\". On 7 April 2013 a decree by Yanukovych pardoned Lutsenko (among others) for health reasons and \"to decriminalize and humanize Ukrainian legislation\" and the same day he was released from prison. The decree also exempted from further punishment Lutsenko's fellow Minister in the second Tymoshenko Government Heorhiy Filipchuk. Lutsenko stated the day after his release he will \"continue to remain in politics\".\n\nLutsenko and his family had repeatedly stated that they would not seek a pardon, because they believe the charges where groundless and political punishment. Nevertheless, Lutsenko's wife Iryna Lutsenko welcomed the request.\n\nOn 8 April 2013 the European Union welcomed the pardoning of Lutsenko and Filipchuk and urged Ukraine to continue addressing \"the cases of selective justice\".\n\nIn the spring of 2013 Lutsenko established the non-parliamentary movement \"Third Republic\". At the time he was not member of a political party because he is \"on a path to the same goal pursued by \"Fatherland\" from the bottom up and from the people, by organizing a connection between opposition parties and the populace\".\n\nIn November 2013 Lutsenko became one of the organizers of Euromaidan.\n\nLutsenko was hospitalised on 11 January 2014 in an intensive care ward after being beaten by police in protests following the sentence of verdicts in an alleged 2011 Lenin statue bomb plot in Boryspil. Lutsenko had arrived at the courthouse after initial clashes between police and protesters an after 400 riot police had arrived. After the convicts had been transported away, several cars followed the riot police bus and blocked it at Peremohy avenue, near Svyatoshino police station. A crowd soon gathered, demanding from policemen to open their faces and to show their IDs. According to Lutsenko's wife Iryna her husband had been attacked by police as he tried to break up the violence. Lutsenko has received an official status of victim of a crime.\n\nOn 17 June 2014 Lutsenko was appointed as (non-staff) adviser to President Petro Poroshenko; he had also been adviser to Poroshenko's predecessor acting President Oleksandr Turchynov.\n\nLutsenko's old party People's Self-Defense Political Party was renamed Third Ukrainian Republic in July 2014; however, Lutsenko was not a member of this revamped People's Self-Defense Political Party.\n\nOn 27 August 2014 Lutsenko was elected the leader of the Bloc of Petro Poroshenko party.\n\nIn the 2014 Ukrainian parliamentary election Lutsenko was re-elected into parliament after being in the top 10 of the electoral list of Petro Poroshenko Bloc. He then became Parliamentary leader of the parties faction in parliament.\n\nOn 28 August 2015 the UDAR party merged into Petro Poroshenko Bloc. UDAR party leader Vitali Klitschko at the same party congress replaced Lutsenko as new party leader.\n\nOn 12 May 2016 parliament appointed Lutsenko Prosecutor General of Ukraine. This after it had changed amendments to legislation allowing a person to hold the office without a law degree. Lutsenko (who has no law degree) was also stripped of his MP mandate.\n\nAfter Ukrainian politician and activist Kateryna Handziuk died from complications from an acid attack on 4 November 2018 human rights organisations and NGOs demand the resignation of Lutsenko and Interior Minister Arsen Avakov. \"To prove that no one clings to power\" Lutsenko announced his intention to resign (as Prosecutor General) on 6 November 2018. He also noted he considered the investigation of the case effective and that he was outraged by what he considered \"PR on blood\" around the Handziuk case. On 9 November 2018 President Petro Poroshenko refused to approve Lutsenko's resignation.\n\nLutsenko's wife Iryna Lutsenko was elected into parliament in the October 2012 Ukrainian parliamentary election on the party list of \"Fatherland\" (number 18). In March 2012 she had stated she was not about to go into politics.\n\nIn the 2014 Ukrainian parliamentary election Iryna Lutsenko treid to get re-elected into parliament; this time by placing 70th on the electoral list of Petro Poroshenko Bloc; but Petro Poroshenko Bloc gained 63 seats by electoral list. After fellow Petro Poroshenko Bloc members left parliament she returned to parliament on 27 January 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "21696629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21696629", "title": "Yuriy Meshkov", "text": "Yuriy Meshkov\n\nYuri Alexandrovich Meshkov (, (\"Yuri Alexandrovich Meshkov\"); born October 25, 1945) is a former Crimean politician and a leader of the pro-Russian movement in Crimea. Yuriy Meshkov served as the only President of Crimea (the autonomous republic of Ukraine that was unilaterally annaxed by of Russia in 2014) from 1994 to 1995.\n\nEleven days after his first return to Crimea since 1995, Meshkov was deported from Ukraine on July 13, 2011 with the restriction of entry for 5 years.\n\nYuri Meshkov was born on October 25, 1945 in Synelnykove in the Dnipropetrovsk Oblast of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic (now Ukraine) to a Ukrainian-born mother and a native Kuban Cossack Russian father. He grew up in Simferopol where he finished high school. When he was about eight years old the region of Crimea was officially transferred from the Russian SFSR to the Ukrainian SSR. His military obligation he served in the Border Guard. In 1967 (in some sources 1977) he graduated from the Law School of Moscow State University. Until 1982 he worked as a detective and then as the head detective in the office of the District's Attorney. From 1982 to 1985 he spent time on the science-researching yacht \"Skif\". After 1985 and until 1990 worked privately as a judicial consultant. At that time he also was one of the leaders of the Crimea department of the All-Union historical-enlighting society \"Memorial\", and the president of the Crimean Federation of kickboxing.\n\nIn 1990, Meshkov was elected as a deputy to the Supreme Council of Crimea (the republic's parliament). There he became the co-founder of the RDK Party (Republican movement of Crimea). In 1994 he stood at the helm of the electoral bloc \"Russia\" for the republican presidential elections where he easily defeated in the second round of elections Mykola Bahrov who ran as the independent. Mykola Bahrov at that time was the head of the Supreme Council of Crimea. During the second round of the 1994 Crimean presidential elections, Yuriy Meshkov won with 72.9 percent and elected as the republic's only president.\n\nHis main political platform was to facilitate much closer relationships with the Russian Federation up to the possible reunification of Crimea with Russia. Meshkov tried to initiate a military-political union with Russia and completely disregarded opinions of the Ukrainian government. He also tried to force the rotation of the Russian currency, issue Russian passports to the Crimean population, and even transfer Crimea to the same time zone as Moscow. Due to the unforeseen resistance from the local opposition, Meshkov only managed in putting his autonomous republic into Moscow time zone. He also appointed the vice prime-minister, the Russian economist Yevgeny Saburov, who virtually became the head of the government. And then argued when was confronted by other government officials regarding the legitimacy of his appointee who did not even have a Ukrainian passport. Due to that Yevgeny Saburov was forced to resign. After that he managed to paralyze the work of the Supreme Council of Crimea.\n\nIn 1995, the Ukrainian parliament scrapped the Crimean Constitution and abolished the post of president on March 17, 1995. After couple of preceding warnings in September and November 1994 on March 17, 1995 the President of Ukraine, Leonid Kuchma, signed the Law of Ukraine that scrapped the amended Crimean Constitution and some other Laws of AR Crimea, because they contradicted the Constitution of Ukraine and endangered the sovereignty of Ukraine.\n\nThen Meshkov went to Moscow (Russia), where he taught at the Moscow university. He did not return to Crimea till 2 July 2011 because his ex-wife (Lyudmyla) had died (on 28 May 2011). At a 7 July 2011 press conference, he called for an referendum on restoring the Constitution of Crimea 1992 version, which actually declared Crimea an sovereign state. Meshkov also stated then that he ruled out the possibility of his participation in the political life of Crimea because of the need to change citizenship; but instead would participate in \"the work of social organizations\". He also stated \"the Russian movement in Crimea is divided and overrun by random people and traitors\". The District Administrative Court of Crimea controlled by Ukraine at that time deported Meshkov from Ukraine with the restriction of entry for 5 years on 13 July 2011.\n\nAfter the 2014 annexation of Crimea by Russia, Meshkov visited the peninsular. Although he had conflicts with other members of the pro-Russian movement in Crimea in the 90s, his merits were finally recognized and in 2014 he was awarded a medal \"For return of Crimea\".\n"}
