{"id": "26984954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26984954", "title": "1964 T-39 shootdown incident", "text": "1964 T-39 shootdown incident\n\nThe 1964 T-39 shootdown incident occurred on 28 January 1964, when an unarmed United States Air Force T-39 Sabreliner on a training mission was shot down over Erfurt, East Germany by a Soviet Mikoyan-Gurevich MiG-19 fighter aircraft. The occupants of the aircraft were Lieutenant Colonel Gerald K. Hannaford, Captain Donald Grant Millard and Captain John F. Lorraine. All three died, becoming some of the few US confirmed direct casualties of the Cold War in Europe.\n\nFollowing the cessation of hostilities at the end of World War II, a situation which came to be known as the Cold War developed between the United States, Canada, and Western European nations on one side, and the Soviet bloc on the other. Tensions between the United States and Soviet Union were most felt in the regions bordering the Iron Curtain, notably West Germany and East Germany, and during this time relations between the two superpowers were characterized by hostile attitudes, spying, and numerous incidents resulting in loss of life and equipment. One of the most famous of these is the shooting down of a Lockheed U-2 spy plane, piloted by Francis Gary Powers, over the Soviet Union in May 1960.\n\nOn 28 January 1964, an unarmed USAF North American T-39A Sabreliner twin engine jet trainer, \"62-4448\", of the 7101st Air Base Wing, departed Wiesbaden, West Germany, at 14:10 on a routine three-hour training flight. On board the trainer were three men, Captain John F. Lorraine and students Lieutenant Colonel Gerald K. Hannaford and Captain Donald G. Millard. Lorraine was the qualified instructor, while Hannaford and Millard, both pilots with experience on other types, were being trained in order to qualify on the T-39.\n\nThe flight proceeded uneventfully until, 47 minutes after takeoff, radar at two U.S. air defense stations noticed that the trainer was heading toward East Germany at . Hoping to divert the T-39 back on course, each station began hailing the plane on Air Force frequencies and a Soviet-monitored international distress band. Repeated calls to the T-39 went unanswered. It appeared that the T-39's radio systems malfunctioned and the crew were unable to respond.\n\nThe T-39 crossed the border into East Germany. Within five minutes, two blips appeared near the American jet. For 11 minutes, radar blips indicated the three planes were moving eastward, then two blips suddenly veered west and the third blip disappeared. American personnel monitoring the T-39's flight could not determine what had happened, although it was later reported that residents in Vogelsberg, from the border, had heard machine-gun and cannon fire and had witnessed the plane crash. The incident is believed to have occurred at 15:14 hours.\n\nAt 17:00 hours on 28 January the United States Military Liaison Mission (USMLM), in Berlin, received a warning to stand by for possible search and rescue of American airmen. By 18:00 hours, a search team left Berlin for the Erfurt area of East Germany. At 19:15 hours, the chief of the USMLM met with his Soviet counterpart to request help in finding the plane and rescuing survivors (per the Huebner–Malinin Agreement).\n\nAt 20:00 hours, a second search team left Berlin. About this same time, the first team arrived at the crash site, north of Erfurt. The first team received a report from an East German civilian that a U.S. plane had crashed and burned, and that the crew was dead. Throughout the night, the American teams tried to approach the aircraft and were repeatedly sent away by the armed Soviet forces on site. These forces denied that any aircraft had crashed, and two American search teams were detained briefly before being released at 14:00 hours on 29 January.\n\nBy 29 January, the United States State Department charged that the Soviet Union shot down an unarmed plane and caused the needless deaths of three officers. Secretary of State Dean Rusk called the action a \"shocking and senseless act.\" Through the Soviet press agency, Tass, Moscow claimed that the plane had intruded over East German territory and failed to react to signals, and then a warning shot. The Soviets said they were compelled to take the measure that brought down the U.S. plane.\n\nOn 30 January, the Soviets agreed to allow US personnel access to the crash site. This occurred the following day and later the bodies of all three servicemen were returned to the United States through Andrews Air Force Base in Maryland. General Curtis E. LeMay met the plane and participated in an honors ceremony. The aircraft wreckage was also recovered and was taken to Berlin, arriving there on 1 February 1964.\nResidents from the nearby town of Vogelsberg in Thuringia erected a memorial to the three downed pilots, in 1998, once the \"Iron Curtain\" had been lifted.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37074575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37074575", "title": "2012 storm in southern Uruguay", "text": "2012 storm in southern Uruguay\n\nIn 2012, a strong storm swept across southern Uruguay from 18 to 19 September.\n\nThe main area affected were the departments on the River Plate and Atlantic coasts: Colonia, San José, Montevideo, Canelones, Maldonado, Rocha. \n\nThe strongest winds were in Punta del Este (172 km/h), Montevideo (122 km/h), Laguna del Sauce (120 km/h), Colonia (103 km/h), San José (102 km/h), Melo (98 km/h), Tacuarembó (87 km/h), Rivera (83 km/h).\n\nThe government was forced to close public buildings, suspend transport and recommend residents in the capital Montevideo and other locations along the coast to remain at home. Luckily enough, it was the week of spring holidays, so children did not have to attend school.\n\nMeteorologists considered this to be an extratropical cyclone.\n\nGeneral comment was that his cyclone was less severe than the 2005 storm.\n\nThree people were reported dead in San José, due to a flood.\n\nThis storm is part of a regional phenomenon covering also Argentina, Paraguay, and Bolivia, where other people were reported dead as well.\n"}
{"id": "58944534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58944534", "title": "2018 Case of babies born without arms in France", "text": "2018 Case of babies born without arms in France\n\nIn October 2018, doctors in France demanded an investigation into why thirteen babies in three rural areas had been born without hands, forearms or arms in three rural areas, between 2007 and 2017. The public health authority initially stated that the incidents were not significantly higher than the national average, and they would not investigate further. However, after additional cases were reported, also in rural areas, health minister Agnès Buzyn launched a nationwide investigation into the causes in November 2018.\n\nAmelia (lack of one of more limbs) and meromelia (partial absence of one or more limbs) can have multiple causes, including chromosomal disorders, infection, or exposure to toxic substances at a critical time in the development of the embryo, between the 6th and 8th week, when the arms and legs appear..\n"}
{"id": "31382834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31382834", "title": "ANZAC Field of Remembrance", "text": "ANZAC Field of Remembrance\n\nThe ANZAC Field of Remembrance is an annual event held at St. Andrew's Cathedral, Sydney, which is hosted by the War Widows' Guild of Australia NSW Ltd. The event involves the planting of wooden crosses in remembrance of those who have died due to their involvement in war. \n\nThe first Field of Remembrance in Sydney was held in 1952. It was an idea that originated from the late Mrs C J Pope, widow of Rear Admiral Pope, after she had visited London and been impressed by the Field of Remembrance held each year in an old churchyard near Westminster Abbey. In 1972 the Attorney-General granted the War Widows’ Guild of Australia NSW Ltd permission to use the word 'ANZAC' in the title, and the Field has been known since then as the ANZAC Field of Remembrance and continues to the present day.\n\nA non-denominational service is held prior to Anzac Day at St Andrew’s Cathedral, Sydney, with a lesson read by the Governor of New South Wales. The service is followed by the Dedication of the Field and the planting of the official crosses. The first cross is planted by the Governor in memory of The Unknown Warrior, followed by crosses planted on behalf of the three armed forces: Navy, Army and Air Force; the citizens of Sydney; New Zealanders and their armed forces; veterans; and war widows. The Field was originally laid out on the lawn adjoining the Cathedral near Bathurst Street. Since 2016 the Field has been in Hyde Park on the Corner of Park Street and Elizabeth Street close to the ANZAC Memorial. The crosses are planted in a set of flower boxes that are periodically used to decorate the City of Sydney.\n\nThe small wooden crosses are colour-coded to represent the different armed forces. A sprig of rosemary is attached to each cross which represents a loved one gone but remembered. They are each personalised with hand written names or small messages. After the Field of Remembrance is closed, the crosses are cremated and scattered on the graves of veterans in a memorial garden.\n\nThe Field of Remembrance is open for widows and members of the public to place crosses in personal remembrance, from the day of the commemoration service until the late afternoon on Anzac Day.\n\nThe Guild held its 60th ANZAC Field of Remembrance on 19 April 2011. At this service, war widows from major and recent conflicts laid sprays of flowers on the Chancel steps of the Cathedral. The Governor of New South Wales, Her Excellency Professor Marie Bashir AC CVO unveiled a plaque to recognise this milestone of 60 years.\n\nFollowing the establishment of the Sydney Field of Remembrance, the War Widows’ Guild has also held Fields of Remembrance in Albury, Newcastle, The Entrance and Tamworth. The War Widows’ Guild in the Australian Capital Territory and Tasmania also hold Fields of Remembrance.\n\n"}
{"id": "40775529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40775529", "title": "Aleppo offensive (October–December 2013)", "text": "Aleppo offensive (October–December 2013)\n\nThe October–December 2013 Aleppo offensive or Operation Northern Storm was a campaign during the Syrian civil war launched by the Syrian army in the Aleppo Governorate to reopen a key supply route linking central Syria to the largest city, Aleppo. The offensive began when the Syrian Army attacked the strategic town of Khanasir.\n\nIn June 2013, after their strategic capture of al-Qusayr, government forces launched an offensive called Northern Storm in Aleppo Province aimed at securing supply lines between disparate patches of control in the province. However, increased rebel pressure in Homs Province led the government to abandon the offensive and redeploy its troops there, leaving its supply lines to Aleppo city vulnerable to attack.\n\nLater in the summer, rebels capitalised on this strategic weakness. In late July, rebels launched an offensive west of Aleppo city culminating in the capture of several suburbs and a massacre of captured government soldiers, and on 5 August, the long-besieged Menagh Airbase in the north of the province fell to the rebels. On 26 August, rebels captured the strategic town of Khanasir, thus cutting the government's last land supply route to the contested city of Aleppo.\n\nRebels then turned their sights to the government-controlled southern countryside of Aleppo. On 20 September, a coalition of at least ten rebel groups led by Ahrar ash-Sham and the Tawhid Brigade launched an offensive called \"wal-'Adiyat Dabha\" against government positions between the southern edge of the city and the defence factories outside of rebel-held Al-Safira. In the first six days of the offensive, rebels made significant advances, claiming to have captured at least 25 villages. In response, government forces from Aleppo International Airport redeployed south to counter the rebel offensive.\n\nTo reopen supply lines to Aleppo city, the government launched a counteroffensive along the so-called \"Desert Road\" between Aleppo and Salamiyah, dispatching a large convoy from the latter backed with heavy air support. Khanasir, captured by rebels in August, was the first major objective of the Army as it occupies a critical chokepoint on the road.\n\nOn 1 October, the shelling of Khanasir and fighting between the Army and rebels in the vicinity of the town killed at least 20 rebel fighters. The village of Jub al-Ghaws, near of Khanasir was bombed by helicopters while, according to SOHR, rebel fighters hit a fighter airplane above Khanasir.\n\nOn 2 October, according to SOHR, the Syrian Army progressed in Khanasir, taking control of parts of the city while a large number of rebel positions were hit by the Air Force in the province; al-Atareb, Khan al-A'sal, Kafrnaha and Minnegh military airport.\n\nOn 3 October, the Army took back control of Khanasir, with at least 25 rebel fighters and 18 pro-government militiamen being killed between 1 and 2 October. However, the military had not yet reopened the highway to Aleppo.\n\nOn 4 October, eight rebels were killed during fighting with the Army in the al-Hmeira mountain, near al-Safira.\n\nOn 7 October, the Army managed to reopen the supply route between Aleppo and Khanasir, capturing many surrounding villages like Rasm Okeiresh, Rasm al-Sheikh, Rasm al-Helou, Rasm Bakrou, al-Wawiyeh, Rasm al-Safa, Barzanieh, Jalagheem, Zarraa, and Kafar Akkad, breaking the siege of Aleppo. According to a governorate source, convoys carrying flour, food supplies, and fuel, went to Aleppo.\n\nOn 9 October, rebels massacred government soldiers in a village that had only just been captured by the Army. Elsewhere in the governorate, the Army took the control of other villages; Al-Hamam, Al-Qurbatiy and rebels retreating to Al-Qintein and Al-Bouz.\n\nOn 10 October, heavy Army shelling and air-strikes of the rebel-held town al-Safira killed 16-18 civilians. One of the areas that was hit was the town's market. According to one rebel, if opposition forces lost control of al-Safira everything they had accomplished over the previous year in Aleppo would be lost in a matter of days.\n\nOn 11 October, after clashes, the Army captured the village of Abu Jurayn, in the south of al-Safira.\n\nOn 17 and 18 October, heavy Army shelling of the rebel-held Kurdish town of Tell Aran left 21 civilians dead. 11 others were also injured. The town had been captured from Kurdish militants by jihadist rebels earlier in July.\n\nBy 25 October 76 people had been killed in the shelling of al-Safira since 8 October. More than 130,000 people fled the city.\n\nOn 30 October, the Syrian army entered al-Safira and took over several buildings in the southern part of the city and also advanced on the eastern side the next day. By the morning of 1 November, the Army captured the town.\n\nOn 2 November, the Army, supported by Hezbollah officers, captured the village of Aziziyeh on the northern outskirts of Safira.\n\nOn 4 November, following the loss of Al-Safira, the Free Syrian Army commander for the province of Aleppo, Abdul Jabbar al-Oqaidi, resigned.\n\nOn 6 November, the Army captured most of the Kurdish town of Tell Aran forcing opposition fighters out of it. Some fighting was still occurring in Tell Aran as of 10 November, however, the Army secured the town by the next day.\n\nOn 8 November, before sunrise, the Syrian Army launched an attack against \"Base 80\", controlled by the rebels since February 2013, near the Aleppo airport. The Army, backed up by tanks and heavy artillery, unleashed \"the heaviest barrage in more than a year\" according to residents in Aleppo. A rebel fighter said, \"We did not see it coming. The attack came as a real shock to us.\" According to Al-Jazeera, if the Army captured the base, it would cut the rebel supply routes between Aleppo city and the opposition-controlled town of al-Bab, about 30 kilometers from the Turkish border. By morning, the Army took over several areas of \"Base 80\", leaving them in control of large parts of it. Later in the afternoon, rebel forces, including ISIS, received reinforcements and regrouped, after which they attacked the base. During the fighting, two dozen air and artillery strikes struck rebel positions. After dark, rebels counter-attacked and by dawn the next day managed to recapture most of the base, with fighting still occurring around it. During the attack, rebels used GRAD rockets to strike the base.\n\nOn 10 November, fighting still continued around \"Base 80\", with reports of more fighting inside the base itself. During the clashes, rebels targeted two Army armored vehicles, while one rebel tank was destroyed, killing five rebel fighters. By the afternoon, the Army was once again in full control of the base. According to the SOHR, 63 rebels, including at least 11 foreign fighters, and 32 soldiers were killed during the battle. One other report put the number of rebels killed between 60 and 80. Army units were backed-up by Hezbollah fighters and pro-government militias during the assault.\n\nBy 11 November, the military had captured a series of nearby positions, securing most of the area around Aleppo International Airport.\n\nOn 12 November, the Syrian Army had penetrated the town of al-Naqqarin in the eastern outskirts of Aleppo city, advancing further north. Opposition activists said the Army \"launched a pincer movement from the north and the east and were closing in on major rebel held neighborhoods\". At the same time, government forces inside the city, backed by tanks, had taken two highrise buildings in the northern Ashrafieh and Bani Zeid districts, and advanced into the two neighbourhoods after close-quarter street fighting.\n\nOn 13 November, Syrian Air Force helicopters dropped barrel bombs on rebel positions in Tell Hassel, south of Aleppo, while the military advanced toward the town and fighting raged near it.\n\nOn 14 November, an air strike killed the intelligence commander of the rebel Al-Tawhid Brigade and wounded the top leader of the unit, while they were meeting at a base in Aleppo. One other commander was also injured. That night, the leader of the Al-Tawhid Brigade, Abdulkader al-Saleh, died of his wounds in Turkey. However, his death was kept secret for four days until he could be buried.\n\nOn 15 November, the military captured Tell Hassel, with the rebels retreating to one of their strongholds near the town. By the end of the day, government forces secured the al-Safira road that connects Aleppo with the defence factories on the outskirts of al-Safira. The same day, a former Army colonel, who commanded another rebel brigade, was killed in fighting in the Maaret al-Artiq area, northwest of Aleppo city.\n\nOn 17 November, rebels blew up a bridge linking Tell Hassel and the cable, battery and tractor factories, which were still under rebel control, halting the military motorcade that was advancing towards the plants. Another military motorcade was reportedly advancing towards the rebel-held town of Bellat on the Aleppo-al-Bab highway. Later, government sources reported the Army managed to capture the factory area. According to local activists, opposition forces started to retreat from the village of al-Duwayrinah and the industrial area adjacent to Tell Hassel. The same day, a group of 15 ISIS rebel fighters conducted a raid into Tell Aran, which led to fighting that left 10 of the fighters dead as well as 18 government soldiers. The fate of the other five rebels remained unknown.\n\nOn 18 November, fighting still raged in al-Naqqarin, on the eastern edge of Aleppo, while on 19 November, the Army captured al-Duwayrinah.\n\nBy 24 November, it was reported that government forces started a push into the Sheikh Najjar industrial zone in the northeastern part of Aleppo.\n\nOn 30 November, Army helicopters targeted a rebel compound in al-Bab, but missed their target and hit a market, killing 26 people, including four children. The next day, the helicopters once again attacked the town, targeting a compound of the Tawhid Brigade, but missed their target and hit the Nafasin market instead, killing 24 people. Most of those killed in the second attack were civilians, but also included three rebel fighters. In both attacks, the helicopters dropped barrel bombs.\n\nAt the beginning of December, it was confirmed the Army captured al-Naqqarin and was advancing towards Tiyara. Meanwhile, rebels were retreating from the Sheikh Najjar industrial area, especially from the \"Zone 3\" buildings, after the military took control of Sheikh Yusuf hill, which overlooks Zone 3. On 1 December, Sama TV reported that the Army managed to capture the town of Tiyara, northeast of the al-Nairab air base, showing images of SAA soldiers inside the town.\n\nOn 21 November 15 government militiamen were killed fighting rebels near Base 80. A rebel commander was among the dead on the opposition's side.\n\nOn 25 November, rebels started a counter-attack in the area around Khanasser. By the next day, the rebels managed to capture several villages, but were not able to block the highway to prevent a further Army advance. Days later, the Army recaptured the six villages that rebel forces managed to seize.\n\nOn 28 November, government and rebel forces clashed in the outskirts of Aziza, west of the airport, leaving 20 government fighters and 11 rebels dead.\n\nSoon after, the military launched operation \"Canopus Star\", with the aim to encircle Aleppo and cut rebel supply lines into the city, thus besieging rebel-held areas.\n\nSubsequently, the Army broke the siege of Aleppo's central prison on 22 May, and on 3 July, government forces fully captured the Sheikh Najjar industrial district.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44235239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44235239", "title": "Animasyros", "text": "Animasyros\n\nAnimasyros is an international animation festival and forum. Since 2008 the festival takes place in the capital of Cyclades, Hermoupolis of Syros, and includes animation movies screenings, special tributes to international festivals, professional forum with the participation of distinguished Greek and foreign creators and professionals, workshops for students and children, the applied follow-up workshop “making of”, parties and other parallel events.\n\nEach year the festival is enriched by new and original events, focused on social issues, such as domestic violence, the status of women, racism, etc. All events are free and are held in venues of the island, such as the Apollon Theatre, the municipal Cultural Centre, the local cinema. In 2014 open-air screenings began to take place on Miaoulis Square. Animasyros is the largest animation festival in Greece and one of the 20 largest of its kind in Europe. In 2014 the festival joined the European Project “Creative Europe”, which was designed to support millions of artists and professionals in the cultural field and to offer a new impulse on the cultural sector of Europe, and took advantage of its resources. Aim of the festival has from the early beginning been to show how a relatively new form of art in Greece, as animation, can be adopted by the Greek art scene as well as to present significant creators. The selection of the event venue was made in connection to the fact that a society full of urban culture, such as Hermoupolis’ one, can enfold an initiative, which is gradually transformed from a local one to an international. In 2014 Animasyros joined, after a decision taken by Syros- Hermoupolis’ City Council, the task group that will create and establish the proposal of the nomination “Syros- Cyclades 2021” - Cultural Capital of Europe.\n\nThe festival has gradually become an attraction spot for tens of significant artists and animation schools. In the past outstanding schools, festivals as well as representatives of award-winning animation production companies participated in the happenings and tributes of Animasyros. Owing to the festival, artists like Nina Paley, Jim Capobianco, Ülo Pikkov, Patrick Smith, Marie-Margaux Tsakiri-Scanatovits, Alain Baran, as well as representatives of production companies, such as LAIKA, Pixar and Dreamworks, and international festivals, such as Anima Brussels International Animation Film Festival, Canterbury Anifest, Annecy International Festival of Animated Film, Trickfilm festival, Hiroshima international animation festival, Anifest, Animafest Zagreb etc., visited Syros. Furthermore, the festival program has occasionally included special tributes to artists like Signe Baumane, Jacques- Rémy Girerd etc.\n\nGreek animation scene is represented each year in the festival with special tributes as well as through the competition section, which highlights any notable creative effort. Throughout the seven years of the festival, prominent creators like Aggelos Spartalis, Helen Miltsi, Effie Pappa etc. have distinguished. At the same time, Animasyros runs a student competition sector, which constitutes a great chance for new talents to emerge. Greek animation artists and teachers like Christine Depian, Helen Mouri, Giannis Xagoraris, Constantinos Tiligades etc. undertake to teach in the workshops of Animasyros and host tens of animation fans. The free educational programs of the festival, including both children and applied workshops, cover the largest possible range of creation fields.\n\nThe mascot of the festival is “AnimaSpyros”; a Cycladic figure with references to director Woody Allen. “AnimaSpyros” was designed by Petros Christoulias and developed in three dimensions by Constantinos Petrou. Since 2008 has accompanied all festival events and reminds us of both the origin and the concept of the festival. Animasyros is organized by PLATFORMA – Company of Urban Culture. The production team of the festival consists of above fifty members, who apart from coordinating and managing the event are also dealing with artistic and technical issues, such as animation, graphic design, direction, photography, multimedia etc. Additionally, valuable partners of the festival are the volunteers –around fifty on average- who contribute to the accomplishment of all Animasyros events. Animasyros is set every year under the auspices of the Municipality of Syros- Hermoupolis, the South Aegean Region, whereas receives the active support of both public, such as the General Secretariat for Gender Equality, the Ministry of Tourism, the University of Aegean, and private institutions, such as Onassis Cultural Centre, the Benaki Museum etc. Supporters of the festival are also on a regular basis educational departments of foreign embassies in Greece. The involvement of the local business community of the island has all these seven years been at a high level. Local authorities have confronted the festival from the early beginning with great respect, since except of its artistic dynamic the festival has contributed to the extension of the island’s touristic season as well as has presented the island as a high standards’ touristic destination. The participation in all the activities and screenings of Animasyros is free.\n\nThe festival reached its seven years of active presence in 2014. The happenings of Animasyros7, which were held from 2 to 5 October, included\nfor a first time open-air screenings on Miaoulis Square, executed with the use of special technical equipment. This year’s screenings and parallel events attracted more than 3.000 visitors, both Greek and foreign. The happenings of Animasyros7 opened for a first time with a special ceremony at the Benaki Museum in Athens, where a presentation of this year’s events and screenings as well as an overall assessment of Animasyros6 took place. Guests of this event were, among others, Mark Shapiro, representative of LAIKA Studio, creator Nina Paley along with representatives of the American Embassy in Athens, which is an ardent supporter of the festival. As far as the artistic part is concerned, Animasyros included more than one hundred screenings, special guests from the U.S., the Great Britain, France and other countries, thematic workshops for elementary students, young and older animation fans, whereas a nationwide premiere of the new production of the award-winning animation studio LAIKA, “The Boxtrolls”, was held. For four whole days, Hermoupolis experienced the spirit of the animation world. As a neoclassical city, Hermoupolis, resembled to animation movie scenery along with the 150 years old Apollon Theatre and the enthusiastic audience (students, professionals, journalists, natives of all ages, parents carrying their children within the theatre’s hall). The age spectrum was even more astonishing as far as artistic attainments of the workshops are concerned; animation students accompanied by professional teachers introduced young students of Hermoupolis to how the art of animation is executed and produced small samples of animation work.\n\nAnimasyros7 awards were given as follows:\n\nIn 2014 the festival was accompanied by special tributes targeted both to raise the awareness of the public opinion and to disseminate the perspective of the big schools of European animation to the festival’s audience. The festival honored in 2014 women creators as well as the female element in the art of animation. Therefore, a tribute to gender equality was carried out under the auspices of the General Secretariat for Gender Equality and the American Embassy in Athens. The tribute entitled “Woman in Anima” included movies screenings by internationally renowned artist Signe Baumane, whose work is focused on modern woman issues, such as the recently awarded film “Rocks in my pockets”, as well as movies like “Sita sings the blues” by Nina Paley. Furthermore, the festival hosted this year special and enriched tributes with European orientation. With the support of the Institut Francais de Athenes (IFA), the festival realized a tribute to the great creator of animation movies Jacques-Rémy Girerd, founder of the famous studio Folimage. With reference to the north of Europe other significant events were also held within the festival; the tribute to Animafest Zagreb from Croatia, which since its establishment in 1972 is the second oldest animation festival in Europe, as well as the tributes to Tallinn Black Nights Film Festival and to Animated Dreams sub-festival, which both count more than fifteen years of active presence and come from the particularly active in animation production country of Estonia.\n\nIn the summer of 2014 the first contacts between Animasyros and local authorities of Syros began in order to discuss the possibility of Animasyros involvement in the preparation proceedings of the nomination of the Municipality of Syros as Cultural Capital of Europe 2021. In October 2014, an official task group was created with the participation of the local authorities as well as institutions linked to cultural and touristic affairs, so as a nomination proposal entitled “Syros- Cyclades 2021 – Cultural Capital of Europe” to be formed. Animasyros became part of this group and now works towards drafting and promoting the nomimation, recognizing the uniqueness of Hermoupolis as well as of the whole archipelago as an integral monument of European cultural reference. At the same time, Animasyros strongly supports every initiative taken by the Municipality in its effort to get the historic site of Hermoupolis and the medieval settlement of Ano Syros included in the Unesco World Heritage List as the 18th Greek monument.\n\n"}
{"id": "1416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1416", "title": "April 29", "text": "April 29\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24324924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24324924", "title": "Arthur's Day", "text": "Arthur's Day\n\nArthur's Day was an annual series of music events worldwide, originally organised by Diageo in 2009 to promote the 250th anniversary of its Guinness brewing company.\n\nThe 2009 events took place, internationally, in the cities of Dublin, Kuala Lumpur, Lagos, New York and Yaoundé on 23 September 2009. The event was broadcast internationally on Sky TV,\nITV2 and DirecTV. €6 million was pledged to the Arthur Guinness Fund at the time. The so-called celebration was endorsed by several high-profile names, such as rock star-turned political activist Bob Geldof, director and screenwriter Guy Ritchie, footballer and Guinness football ambassador for Africa Michael Essien and British celebrities such as Peter Crouch and Sophie Dahl.\n\nNotable high-profile names who later spoke out against Arthur's day include: director Lenny Abrahamson, singer-songwriter Christy Moore, and musician Mike Scott of The Waterboys. The event was also dubbed \"Diageo Day\" by The Huffington Post to promote a boycott of the event. The Royal College of Physicians Ireland highlighted a 30% increase in ambulance call-outs on each successive Arthur's Day and a doubling in alcohol-related liver disease over the previous decade, associated with drink promotion and the relative cheapness of alcohol.\n\nGuinness drinkers were asked by the brewing company to raise a glass to the memory of Arthur Guinness at 17:59 (5:59 pm), a reference to 1759, the year the Guinness Brewery was established. An 82c stamp of an Arthur Guinness portrait was also released by An Post to commemorate the anniversary.\n\nThe last Arthur's Day was held in 2013. Guinness cancelling the event in 2014. A new music programme to help emerging artists in Ireland called \"Guinness Amplify\" was launched to replace the event\n\nThe event was criticised as a marketing ploy to increase sales of Guinness with Arthur's day, without understanding or appreciation for the sense of nostalgia and meaning behind the \"Black Stuff\" that the event promoted according to Diageo. Diageo also claimed that Arthur's Day was held on a Thursday, rather than an accurate yearly basis on the original date. Thursday was chosen according to Diageo as Thursdays were the traditional \"student night\" in Dublin and many towns in Ireland.\n\n\"The Irish Times\" has described Arthur's Day as \"a masterclass in how to fabricate a national holiday\" with its \"\"à la carte\" attitude to traditional holidays\" – noting its countdown to one minute before six (recalling New Year's Eve), \"the faux-patriotism that comes with a celebration of a \"national\" drink\" and the \"hagiographic treatment\" of Arthur Guinness as some kind of saint. The paper warned, \"If St Patrick's Day, Christmas, and Hallowe'en are festivals that offer an excuse for a drink, Diageo has flipped the concept on its head and made the drink an excuse for a festival\".\n\nThe Dublin shows occurred in four major venues (The Academy, Tripod, Vicar Street and Whelan's), 28 public houses and a specially established venue called Hop Store 13 at St. James's Gate Brewery. The events saw several high-profile acts performing in smaller locations than usual, with the likes of Tom Jones playing in a small Dublin pub. Admission prices referenced the well-known Guinness numbers, €9.99 and €17.59. The line-ups were confirmed on 24 July 2009. The events at Hop Store 13 would be hosted by Cat Deeley and Ronan Keating, whilst Colin Murray, Michelle Doherty and Michelle de Swarte would present from the other four major venues in the city.\n\nThe Dublin events was headlined by Estelle, Tom Jones, Kasabian and Sugababes. Tom Jones was one of the acts to play Hop Store 13 before being taken to a secret location elsewhere in the city to perform again. Other acts include The Blizzards, The Chakras, The Chapters, Concerto For Constantine, The Coronas, Jamie Cullum, Dirty Epics, The Enemy, Mick Flannery, General Fiasco, David Gray, Calvin Harris, Richard Hawley, The High Kings, Hoarsebox, David Holmes, The Infomatics, Jerry Fish & The Mudbug Club, David Kitt, The Kooks, The Magic Numbers, Roots Manuva, Imelda May, Fiona Melady, Mystery Jets, Noah and the Whale, Noise Control, Paolo Nutini, OK Go, Oppenheimer, Razorlight, Fionn Regan, Republic of Loose, Reverend and The Makers, Sharon Shannon, Soul II Soul, The Undertones, White Belt Yellow Tag and The Wombats.\n\nCelebrations were led in Belfast by Paul and Michael at Cutter's, The Botanic Inn and The House.\n\nThe Black Eyed Peas headlined the Arthur's Day events in Sunway Lagoon in Kuala Lumpur. The Malaysian government had initially forbidden Muslims to attend as it contradicts sharia law due to the organiser promoting alcohol, a beverage which Muslims are not allowed to drink. Non-Muslims in Malaysia were allowed to attend if they wish. Contrary to previous regulations, anyone above the age of 18 years can now participate.\n\nIn 2010, an outdoor Arthur's Day gig took place at Folan Quay, Galway Harbour. Acts that performed on the day included Imelda May, Newton Faulkner, Empire Saints,\nSharon Shannon, The Magic Numbers, David Gray.\n\nSean Paul headlined the Arthur's Day events in Lagos.\n\nOn 3 June 2010, Arthur's Day 2010 was confirmed and the following acts were announced: Snow Patrol, Paolo Nutini, José González, Royseven, The View, We Have Band, MILK, Broken Records, Mick Flannery, The Rags, John Spillane, Jay Sean, The Hoosiers, Slow Club, The Maccabees, The Magic Numbers, Sharon Shannon, The High Kings, The Chapters, The Dirty 9s, Heathers and Dirty Epics. Applications from musical acts were requested. For 2010, events occurred in Cork, Dublin and Galway on 23 September. On 28 July it was confirmed via The Victims Official website that Brandon Flowers would also be playing in support of his solo album, \"Flamingo\".\n\n\nThe Guinness Arthur's Day 2010 was held on 24 September 2010 (GMT/UTC +8) at Surf Beach @ Sunway Lagoon and featured performances by Flo Rida, Sean Kingston, Colby O'Donis, Mizz Nina, Pop Shuvit, Thaitanium, Melissa Indot and DJ Fuzz.\n\nArthur's Day in Indonesia was celebrated for the first time on 4 December 2010 at the Oval Plaza Epicentrum Walk, Jakarta. Lifehouse, the American alternative rock band which came to prominence in 2001 with their hit single 'Hanging by a moment', performed in front of more than 4,000 fans. They were supported on the day by Rivermaya, a popular band from the Philippines and two hit Indonesian bands; Superman Is Dead and Pure Saturday. Winners of the Guinness Bold Chemistry took center stage along with these international talents.\n\nThe huge music concert was also host to other remarkable elements such as a Guinness timeline, photo booths and Guinness Ice Bar. A revolutionary facet of the event called the Wooz.in was introduced to fans which allowed them to tag themselves at the event on Foursquare and upload photos to Facebook or Twitter via an RFID bracelet. Fans joined together at this monumentous occasion to celebrate this remarkable day and raise a toast to Arthur.\n\n\nThe Arthur's Day celebrations in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia kicked off on 23 September 2011 (GMT/UTC +8). The event held at Speed City @ Selangor Turf Club was attended by an estimated crowd of 10,000 and featured performances by Taio Cruz, Mizz Nina, Soler, Dragon Red, Prema Yin, Joe Flizzow, Take-T (Japan) and Dandee (Thailand).\n\nLike the global celebration, Guinness Indonesia has also expanded its festivities into a larger audience to grow the footprint of Arthur's Day by bringing even more unforgettable experience through a remarkable concert in 4 cities across Indonesia in Jakarta, Medan, Surabaya and Makassar.\n\nInternationally renowned artist The Script performed at the Pullman Hotel Ballroom in Jakarta on 12 November in front of more than 5000 fans who joined together to toast the great Arthur Guinness. They were supported on the night by local bands Gugun Blues Shelter and Mike's X GroovyL@nd. On 12 November, Guinness Arthur's Day in Jakarta was positioned as the 2nd most trending topic in Twitter media worldwide.\n\nThe Guinness Arthur's Day Indonesia road show continued; with the American Rock group MR. BIG performing in Medan, Surabaya and Makassar. MR. BIG hit Medan on the 3 December at Pardede Hall with collaboration from Indonesian rock band /rif, and performed in front of 4000 people who joined the celebration. Next up for MR. BIG was a performance in Surabaya on 7 December at Grand City where the concert was opened by local superstar Netral. Finally, MR BIG visited Makassar on 10 December and performed the final Arthur's Day 2011 celebrations at Trans Studio. As was fitting for the final celebration of the year, Makassar had the largest attendance with a crowd of over 9000 people. Across the four cities, the Guinness Arthur's Day Indonesia celebration was experienced by over 22,000 people at the four venues. An additional element was that Guinness provided live streaming in 34 outlets all over Indonesia during the concerts.\n\nThe 2012 promotion of Arthur's day on 27 September included television and billboard advertising under the slogan \"Paint the town black\".\n\nExample, Tinie Tempah, Ellie Goulding, Mika, Professor Green, Fatboy Slim, Texas and Amy Macdonald have been confirmed as headline acts for Arthur's Day 2012. Also on the bill were Picturehouse, Mundy, Walking on Cars, Dove, The Vals, The Rapparee, The Bonnevilles, Lilygreen & Maguire, The Heads of State, Ard Rí, Midnight Graffiti, Fiddler's Green, Ruaile Buaile, Willie Byrne, Gentry Morris, Shane Butler, Jaker and Brush Shiels. Arthur's Day 2012 took place on 27 September.\n\nArthur's Day 2013 was celebrated on Thursday 26 September 2013. On 12 August 2013, the line-up for the 2013 Arthur's day was announced, with The Script, Emeli Sande, Bobby Womack and Manic Street Preachers, among others, headlining the acts that will be playing. The slogan used on advertisements for 2013 was \"Showcasing Ireland's Talent & Creativity\", which highlighted the 500+ musical events taking place on the day.\n\nKuala Lumpur, Malaysia will be celebrating Arthur's Day 2013 on 27 September 2013 with Five For Fighting, The All American Rejects & The Wanted at Sepang International Center.\n\nIn September 2013, a Social Media campaign entitled 'Boycott Arthur's Day' began claiming national and international attention. Irish & International Artists and Musicians have given their support to the campaign which calls on Irish Citizens to 'Say NO to Diageo's boozefest.\nOn 24 September, a live studio debate which included Guinness executive Peter O'Brien was held on Prime Time on RTÉ One discussing the pros and cons of Arthur's day. Singer Christy Moore released a single to mark the occasion which he performed on Prime Time.\nThere has been significant criticism of the event this year due to a 30% increase in ambulance callouts in Dublin on the night in 2012. People have criticised Diageo for inventing a \"pseudo-national holiday\" to market its products.\nSince its cancellation, there have been many reported celebrations of Arthur's Day.\n\nIn September 2015, MSN News reported that a bar in Jundaí, Brazil was hosting an event for Arthur's Day despite it being abandoned.\n\nLater that same September, MSN News reported that Spells Bar in Ballaghaderreen, Co. Roscommon in Ireland was celebrating \"The Day Formerly Known As Arthur's Day.\n\n\"Hot Press\" photos – 2010: 1, 2\n"}
{"id": "52259206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52259206", "title": "Arthur P. Peterson", "text": "Arthur P. Peterson\n\nArthur Porter Peterson (November 21, 1858 – March 16, 1895) was a lawyer and politician of the Kingdom of Hawaii. He served two separate terms as Attorney General of Hawaii and was a member of Queen Liliuokalani's last cabinet before the Overthrow of the Kingdom of Hawaii. He was arrested and jailed by the Republic of Hawaii in the aftermath of the 1895 Counter-Revolution and then exiled to San Francisco where he died of pneumonia.\n\nPeterson was born November 21, 1858 in New Bedford, Massachusetts, of Puritan heritage. His parents were Daniel Porter Peterson and Jerusha Morey Clark. In 1870, at the age of eleven, he and his family settled in the Hawaiian Islands. He was educated at Punahou School in Honolulu, and returned to the United States where he graduated from University of Michigan Law School. He was admitted to the Plymouth County bar and started his law practice in Boston. While in Boston, he also helped established, with William E. Chase, a local newspaper called \"The Daily Bee\".\n\nAfter returning to Hawaii, he served as Deputy Attorney General under Attorneys General Antone Rosa and Clarence W. Ashford for two years and retired in March 1890, to return to private law practice. In April 1890, he was appointed Notary Public for the First Judicial Circuit of the Kingdom.\n\nIn June 1890, King Kalakaua appointed him Attorney General of Hawaii as a part of the Cummins Cabinet, a position he held from June 17, 1890 to February 25, 1891. In January 1891, Kalākaua died while abroad in California and his sister ascended to the throne as Queen Liliuokalani. After the accession of the new sovereign, it was customary for the hold-over cabinet of the deceased monarch to resign, but the Cummins Cabinet refused the queen's request for them to resign citing the 1887 Constitution which only gave the legislature the power to the dismiss cabinet ministers. They asked for a ruling by the Hawaii Supreme Court, and the justices (except for one dissenting opinion) ruled in favor of the queen's decision, and the ministers resigned.\n\nIn 1892, he was elected as a member of the House of Nobles for the island of Oahu. During the 1892–1893 legislative assembly, Peterson lost the respect of the \"haole\" (foreign) community when he became the only white legislator to vote for the lottery bill. On January 13, 1893, Queen Liliuokalani re-appointed him as Attorney General to the final Parker Cabinet with Samuel Parker, William H. Cornwell, and John F. Colburn after her previous cabinet was voted out by the legislature. She had chosen these men specifically to support her plan of promulgating a new constitution while the legislature was not in session.\nShe attempted to promulgate a new constitution, but Peterson and the rest of the cabinet were either opposed to or reluctant to sign the new constitution. Their opposition was one of the causes which ultimately led to her overthrow by the Committee of Safety. After the overthrow, Peterson and the rest of the Parker Cabinet were removed from office.\n\nIn between his political involvements Peterson continued his private practice in Honolulu and \"was the acknowledged head of his profession in Hawaii having established for himself a reputation for ability and integrity excelled by none at the Hawaiian bar\". In the aftermath of the unsuccessful 1895 Counter-Revolution, Peterson and other royalists were arrested and imprisoned by the forces loyal to the Republic of Hawaii. He was detained in Oahu Prison under conditions which later proved detrimental to his health. After his release, he was exiled along with former Attorney General Charles F. Creighton and other political dissidents to San Francisco. The conditions of his imprisonment weakened his physical health and Peterson died of pneumonia on March 16, 1895. According to Creighton, his last words were \"I've got out of jail.\" He was survived by his wife Nettie Lincoln Brown (1865–1953) and daughter Myra Peterson (1886–1973) who were residing in Onset, Massachusetts at the time of his death.\nHe was buried at the Oahu Cemetery in Honolulu.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49668", "title": "Aurora (aircraft)", "text": "Aurora (aircraft)\n\nAurora was a rumored mid-1980s American reconnaissance aircraft. There is no substantial evidence that it was ever built or flown and it has been termed a myth.\n\nThe U.S. government has consistently denied such an aircraft was ever built. Aviation and space reference site \"Aerospaceweb.org\" concluded, \"The evidence supporting the Aurora is circumstantial or pure conjecture, there is little reason to contradict the government's position.\"\n\nFormer Skunk Works director Ben Rich confirmed that \"Aurora\" was simply a myth in \"Skunk Works\", a book detailing his days as the director. Mr. Rich wrote that a young colonel working in the Pentagon arbitrarily assigned the name \"Aurora\" to the funding for the B-2 bomber design competition and somehow the name was leaked to the media.\n\nOthers come to different conclusions. In 2006, veteran black project watcher and aviation writer Bill Sweetman said, \"Does Aurora exist? Years of pursuit have led me to believe that, yes, Aurora is most likely in active development, spurred on by recent advances that have allowed technology to catch up with the ambition that launched the program a generation ago.\"\n\nThe Aurora legend started in March 1990, when \"Aviation Week & Space Technology\" magazine broke the news that the term \"Aurora\" had been inadvertently included in the 1985 U.S. budget, as an allocation of $455 million for \"black aircraft production\" in FY 1987. According to \"Aviation Week\", \"Project Aurora\" referred to a group of exotic aircraft, and not to one particular airframe. Funding of the project allegedly reached $2.3 billion in fiscal 1987, according to a 1986 procurement document obtained by \"Aviation Week\". In the 1994 book \"Skunk Works\", Ben Rich, the former head of Lockheed's Skunk Works division, wrote that the Aurora was the budgetary code name for the stealth bomber fly-off that resulted in the B-2 Spirit.\n\nBy the late 1980s many aerospace industry observers believed that the U.S. had the technological capability to build a Mach 5 (hypersonic speed) replacement for the aging Lockheed SR-71 Blackbird. Detailed examinations of the U.S. defense budget claimed to have found money missing or channeled into black projects. By the mid-1990s reports surfaced of sightings of unidentified aircraft flying over California and the United Kingdom involving odd-shaped contrails, sonic booms, and related phenomena that suggested the US had developed such an aircraft. Nothing ever linked any of these observations to any program or aircraft type, but the name Aurora was often tagged on these as a way of explaining the observations.\n\nIn late August 1989, while working as an engineer on the jack-up barge \"GSF Galveston Key\" in the North Sea, Chris Gibson and another witness saw an unfamiliar isosceles triangle-shaped delta aircraft, apparently refueling from a Boeing KC-135 Stratotanker and accompanied by a pair of F-111 fighter-bombers. Gibson and his girlfriend watched the aircraft for several minutes, until they went out of sight. He subsequently drew a sketch of the formation.\n\nWhen the sighting was made public in 1992, the British Defence Secretary Tom King was told, \"There is no knowledge in the MoD of a 'black' programme of this nature, although it would not surprise the relevant desk officers in the Air Staff and Defence Intelligence Staff if it did exist.\"\n\nA crash at RAF Boscombe Down in Wiltshire on 26 September 1994 appeared closely linked to \"black\" missions, according to a report in \"AirForces Monthly\". Further investigation was hampered by aircraft from the USAF flooding into the base. The crash site was protected from view by fire engines and tarpaulins and the base was closed to all flights soon afterwards.\n\nAn unsubstantiated claim on the Horsted Keynes Village Web Site purports to show photos of the trail left after an unusual sonic boom was heard over the village in July 2002. In 2005 the information was used in a BBC report about the Aurora project.\n\nA series of unusual sonic booms was detected in Southern California beginning in mid-to-late 1991 and recorded by United States Geological Survey sensors across Southern California used to pinpoint earthquake epicenters. The sonic booms were characteristic of a smaller vehicle, rather than of the 37-meter long Space Shuttle orbiter. Furthermore, neither the Shuttle nor NASA's single SR-71B was operating on the days the booms had been registered. In the article, \"In Plane Sight?\" which appeared in the \"Washington City Paper\" on 3 July 1992 (pp. 12–13), one of the seismologists, Jim Mori, noted: \"We can't tell anything about the vehicle. They seem stronger than other sonic booms that we record once in a while. They've all come on Thursday mornings about the same time, between 4 and 7.\" Former NASA sonic boom expert Dom Maglieri studied the 15-year-old sonic boom data from the California Institute of Technology and has deemed that the data showed \"something at 90,000 ft (c. 27 km), Mach 4 to Mach 5.2\". He also said the booms did not look like those from aircraft that had traveled through the atmosphere many miles away at Los Angeles International Airport, rather, they appeared to be booms from a high-altitude aircraft directly above the ground moving at high speeds. The boom signatures of the two different aircraft patterns are wildly different. There was nothing particular to tie these events to any aircraft, but they served to increase the number of stories about the Aurora.\n\nOn 23 March 1992, near Amarillo, Texas, Steven Douglass photographed the \"donuts on a rope\" contrail and linked this sighting to distinctive sounds. He described the engine noise as: \"strange, loud pulsating roar... unique... a deep pulsating rumble that vibrated the house and made the windows shake... similar to rocket engine noise, but deeper, with evenly timed pulses.\" In addition to providing the first photographs of the distinctive contrail previously reported by many, the significance of this sighting was enhanced by Douglass' reports of intercepts of radio transmissions: \"Air-to-air communications... were between an AWACS aircraft with the call sign \"Dragnet 51\" from Tinker AFB, Oklahoma, and two unknown aircraft using the call signs \"Darkstar November\" and \"Darkstar Mike\". Messages consisted of phonetically transmitted alphanumerics. It is not known whether this radio traffic had any association with the \"pulser\" that had just flown over Amarillo.\" (\"Darkstar\" is also a call sign of AWACS aircraft from a different squadron at Tinker AFB) A month later, radio enthusiasts in California monitoring Edwards AFB Radar (callsign \"Joshua Control\") heard early morning radio transmissions between Joshua and a high flying aircraft using the callsign \"Gaspipe\". \"You're at 67,000 feet, 81 miles out\" was heard, followed by \"70 miles out now, 36,000 ft, above glideslope.\" As in the past, nothing linked these observations to any particular aircraft or program, but the attribution to the Aurora helped expand the legend.\n\nIn February 1994, a former resident of Rachel, Nevada, and Area 51 enthusiast, Chuck Clark, claimed to have filmed the Aurora taking off from the Groom Lake facility. In the David Darlington book \"\", he said:\n\nI even saw the Aurora take off one night – or an aircraft that matched the Aurora's reputed configuration, a sharp delta with twin tails about a hundred and thirty feet long. It taxied out of a lighted hangar at two-thirty A.M. and used a lot of runway to take off. It had one red light on top, but the minute the wheels left the runway, the light went off and that was the last I saw of it. I didn't hear it because the wind was blowing from behind me toward the base.\" I asked when this had taken place. \"February 1994. Obviously they didn't think anybody was out there. It was thirty below zero – probably ninety below with the wind chill factor. I had hiked into White Sides from a different, harder way than usual, and stayed there two or three days among the rocks, under a camouflage tarp with six layers of clothes on. I had an insulated face mask and two sleeping bags, so I didn't present a heat signature. I videotaped the aircraft through a telescope with a five-hundred-millimeter f4 lens coupled via a C-ring to a high-eight digital video camera with five hundred and twenty scan lines of resolution, which is better than TV.\" The author then asked, \"Where's the tape?\" \"Locked away. That's a legitimate spyplane; my purpose is not to give away legitimate national defense. When they get ready to unveil it, I'll probably release the tape.\"\n\nBy 1996, reports associated with the Aurora name dropped off in frequency, suggesting to people who believed that the aircraft existed that it had only ever been a prototype or that it had had a short service life.\n\nIn 2000, \"Aberdeen Press and Journal\" writer Nic Outterside wrote a piece on US stealth technology in Scotland. Citing confidential \"sources\", he alleged RAF/USAF Machrihanish in Kintyre, Argyll to be a base for Aurora aircraft. Machrihanish's almost long runway makes it suitable for high-altitude and experimental aircraft with the fenced-off coastal approach making it ideal for takeoffs and landings to be made well away from eyes or cameras of press and public. \"Oceanic Air Traffic Control at Prestwick,\" Outterside says, \"also tracked fast-moving radar blips. It was claimed by staff that a 'hypersonic jet was the only rational conclusion' for the readings.\"\n\nIn 2006, aviation writer Bill Sweetman put together 20 years of examining budget \"holes\", unexplained sonic booms, as well as the Gibson sighting and concluded:\n\nIn June 2017, \"Aviation Week\" reported that Rob Weiss, the General Manager of the Skunk Works, provided some confirmation of a research project and stated that hypersonic technology was now mature, and efforts were underway to fly an aircraft with it.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3961880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3961880", "title": "Austin Celtic Association", "text": "Austin Celtic Association\n\nThe Austin Celtic Association is a non-profit organization based in Central Texas. Its goal is to celebrate and promote the Celtic culture through music, dance, language, sports, history, and the arts. Since 1997, they have shared the Celtic culture of Ireland, Scotland, Brittany, Nova Scotia, Wales, and other countries with Austin and Central Texas.\n\nThe Austin Celtic Association main production and the event that organization focuses for the most part is the Austin Celtic Festival the first full weekend in November each year, featuring world-class musicians, dance, language, sports, history, and the arts. Headlining performers include and have included major stars in the world of traditional Irish or Celtic Music such as Frankie Gavin and De Dannan, Paddy Keenan, The Prodigals, John Doyle, Daithi Sproule, Cillian Valelly, Liz Carroll, The Makem and Spain Brothers, and Joe Burke. Local musicians that appear regularly at the festival include Ed Miller, Jeff Moore, The Tea Merchants and the Silver Thistle Pipes and Drums.\n\n"}
{"id": "12687361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12687361", "title": "Bali Jatra", "text": "Bali Jatra\n\nBālijātrā (also Bōita Bandāṇa) literally means A Voyage to Bali. This festival is held in Odisha (a state in eastern India), in the city of Cuttack at \"Gadagadia Ghata\" of the Mahanadi river, to mark the day when ancient Sadhabas (Oriya mariners) would set sail to distant lands of Bali, as well as Java (at the time of the voyage known as \"Yawadvipa\"), Sumatra, Borneo (all in Indonesia), and Sri Lanka (formerly Ceylon) for trade and cultural expansion. To commemorate this, the festival is celebrated every year from the day of Kartika Purnima (full moon day of the month of Kartika) according to the Oriya Calendar. \n\nOn Kartika Purnima, which comes around the end of October and November, people of Odisha gather near banks of Mahanadi, Brahmani river, other river banks, ponds, water tanks and sea shores to float miniature toy boats, made of colored paper, dried banana tree barks, and cork, as a symbolic gesture of their ancestors' voyage. These toy boats, usually launched early in the morning contain traditional paan and small oil lamps, which are lit and placed inside them, to provide an attractive sight during the festival. People sing a song \"Aa ka ma boi, pan gua thoi...\" to remember the early maritime history of Odisha. The song tells about four months that are important for marine merchants of Kalinga (the earlier name of Odisha). This festival is also celebrated with great fanfare in Paradeep. Bali Jatra bears testimony to the rich maritime legacy of ancient Odisha. This is the specific time that was considered auspicious by the Sadhabas to begin their voyage in vessels called Boitas. The voyage is begun on \"Kartika Purnima\" to take advantage of the favorable wind blowing during this time. \"Ajhala\" or big fabric sails were used to harness the wind power to move the \"Boitas\".\n\nBali Jatra is also associated with \"Taapoi\" and rituals like \"Bhalukuni Osha\" or \"Khudurukuni Osha\" and \"Bada Osha\". \"Taapoi\" is closely associated with the Bali Jatra festival, which recalls traditional memories of young maidens waiting for the return of their sailor brothers. \n\nIn Cuttack, Bali Jatra is celebrated annually as a large open fair near the Barabati Fort area. It is said to be the largest fair of Asia. There are several attractions for children like toy stalls, giant wheels, differnts games, maut ka kuan (literally well of death) and food stalls selling Oriya delicacies (\"Cuttack Dahivada Aludum\", \"Thunka puri\", \"Kulfi\", \"Gupchup\", \"Mathura Cake\", \"Banarasi Paan\" etc.) from different parts of the state, and other vendors selling toys, curiosities, and other gifts. Bali Jatra also provides a lot of cultural programs. Every year millions of people from all over the nation come to experience it.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "750499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=750499", "title": "Battle of Harran", "text": "Battle of Harran\n\nThe Battle of Harran took place on May 7, 1104 between the Crusader states of the Principality of Antioch and the County of Edessa, and the Seljuk Turks. It was the first major battle against the newfound Crusader states in the aftermath of the First Crusade marking a key turning point against Frankish expansion. The battle had a disastrous effect on the Principality of Antioch as the Turks regained territory earlier lost.\n\nIn 1104 Baldwin II of Edessa had attacked and besieged the city of Harran. For his further support Baldwin sought help from Bohemond I of Antioch and Tancred, Prince of Galilee. Bohemond and Tancred marched north from Antioch to Edessa to join with Baldwin and Joscelin of Courtenay, accompanied by Bernard of Valence the Patriarch of Antioch, Daimbert of Pisa the Patriarch of Jerusalem, and Benedict, the Archbishop of Edessa. \n\nThe Seljuks, under Jikirmish, governor of Mosul, and Sokman, the Artuqid lord of Mardin, gathered in the area of the Khabur, perhaps at Ra's al-'ain (Hellenistic Rhesaina). In May 1104 they attacked Edessa, perhaps to distract the crusaders from Harran, perhaps to take the city while the crusaders were elsewhere engaged.\n\nAccording to Ibn al-Qalanisi, Tancred and Bohemund arrived at Edessa during the siege, but according to \"Chronicle of 1234\" they arrived first at the gates of Harran. In any case, the Seljuks rode away from the crusaders, feigning a retreat and the crusaders followed.\n\nThe Seljuks feigned retreat in the preliminary skirmishes while the Crusaders continued their pursuit south. The contemporary chronicler Matthew of Edessa reports a pursuit of two days while Ralph of Caen reports three days. According to Ibn al-Athir, the main battle was fought twelve kilometres from Harran.\n\nMost historians accept the accounts of Albert of Aachen and Fulcher of Chartres, who located the battle on the plain (\"planitie\") opposite the city of Raqqa, Raqqa being about two days away from Harran. \n\nBaldwin and Joscelin commanded the Edessan left wing while Bohemond and Tancred commanded the Antiochene right. Ralph of Caen says that the crusaders were caught unawares when the Seljuks turned to fight, so much so that Baldwin and Bohemond fought without armor. \n\nDuring the battle itself, Baldwin's troops were completely routed, with Baldwin and Joscelin captured by the Turks. The Antiochene troops along with Bohemond were able to escape to Edessa. However, Jikirmish had only taken a small amount of booty, so he purloined Baldwin from Sokman's camp. Although a ransom was paid, Joscelin and Baldwin were not released until sometime before 1108, and 1109 respectively.\n\nThe battle was one of the first decisive Crusader defeats with severe consequences to the Principality of Antioch. The Byzantine Empire took advantage of the defeat to impose their claims on Antioch, and recaptured Latakia and parts of Cilicia. Many of the towns ruled by Antioch revolted and were re-occupied by Muslim forces from Aleppo. Armenian territories also revolted in favour of the Byzantines or Armenia. Furthermore, these events caused Bohemund to return to Italy to recruit more troops, leaving Tancred as regent of Antioch.\n\nWilliam of Tyre wrote that there was no battle more disastrous than this. Although Antioch recovered by the next year, the Byzantine emperor Alexius I Comnenus imposed the Treaty of Devol on Bohemond, which would have made Antioch a vassal of the empire had Tancred agreed to it. Antioch was again crushed at the Battle of Ager Sanguinis in 1119; Edessa never really recovered and survived until 1144 but only because of divisions among the Muslims.\n\n"}
{"id": "1955332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1955332", "title": "Battle of Yanling", "text": "Battle of Yanling\n\nThe Battle of Yanling () was fought in 575 BC between the states of Chu and Jin at Yanling during the Spring and Autumn period of ancient China. On the Jin side, Xi Qi (郤錡) commanded the right wing whilst Luan Shu (欒書) commanded the center with Han Jue (韓厥) on the left . Prior to the battle, Shi Xie wanted to avoid battle on the basis that external enemies are necessary for internal peace. The Chu army had the numerical advantage but with the exception of the King's personal guard, it was in poor condition. The Chu army was also commanded by Zifan (子反) and Zichong (子重), who hated each other. Following Luan Shu's advice, the Jin army took a defensive posture instead of going on the offensive. By dawn the Jin armies were deployed behind a marsh and ditch, which impeded Chu troops. Fen Huang, a Jin officer, pointed out that the best Chu troops in the center was bogged down by the marsh, leaving the flanks to be held only by badly disciplined 'wild tribes of the south'. Jin chariots then charged both Chu flanks, scattering the enemy. They then proceeded to attack the center, which contained the Chu King commanding his troops. Although the Chu King's life was endangered a couple of times, Jin officers let him escape as a sign of respect. However, he was wounded by an arrow and his army was driven back.\n"}
{"id": "31379348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31379348", "title": "Black Swan dance double controversy", "text": "Black Swan dance double controversy\n\n\"Black Swan\" is a 2010 American psychological thriller film about a ballet dancer directed by Darren Aronofsky and starring Natalie Portman, Vincent Cassel, and Mila Kunis. After the 83rd Academy Awards, in which Portman won the Oscar for Best Actress for her role in the film as a ballerina, controversy arose over how much credit for the dancing in the film was being given to her and how much to her \"dance double\", American Ballet Theatre soloist Sarah Lane.\n\nIn a March 3, 2011 blog post (written prior to the DVD release) for \"Dance Magazine\", its editor-in-chief Wendy Perron asked why a visual effects video clip showing Lane's face being replaced by Portman's was once available online but later removed from the Internet prior to the Oscars. She also speculated as to whether Portman's omission of Lane's name during her acceptance speech was a case of \"forgetfulness in the heat of the moment? Or was this omission, and the deletion from the video, planned by the studio's publicity machine?\" It was also noted that Lane is credited as \"Lady in the Lane\" and as \"Stunts\" rather than as Portman's double in the theatrical release of the film. This led to a number of responses regarding Portman. Aronofsky and Fox Searchlight released a joint statement that argued: \"We were fortunate to have Sarah there to cover the more complicated dance sequences and we have nothing but praise for the hard work she did. However, Natalie herself did most of the dancing featured in the final film.\" Benjamin Millepied and Kunis also argued in defense of Portman's dancing. Lane responded through an essay published in \"The Wall Street Journal\" (Portman declined through a representative to write one as well) and an interview on \"20/20\" that her interest lies primarily in defense of ballet as an art form that cannot be mastered in a year.\n\nThe DVD of \"Black Swan\" was released on March 29, 2011 and includes the featurette with Sarah Lane.\n\nThe film's director Darren Aronofsky stated in a July 2010 interview: \"Most of these women who are here started dancing when they were 4, 5, or 6 years old. Their bodies are shaped differently because they started so young. She was able to pull it off. Except for the wide shots when she has to be en pointe for a real long time, it's Natalie on screen. I haven't used her double a lot.\" Another time when asked whether Portman did all the dancing, he replied \"Not everything, but a lot of it. That shot, in the opening prologue when she walks off into the light and she’s flapping her wings, and she’s on pointe, that is 100%, untouched, no digital Natalie Portman. When the camera pulls out on her and she’s on top of the ramp and she’s bleeding, and she’s on pointe, right before she jumps—that is Natalie Portman en pointe\".\n\nIn a November 29, 2010 interview, Portman's other dance double, Kimberly Prosa, also added: \"Natalie took class, she studied for several months, from the waist up is her. Sarah Lane a soloist at ABT, did the heavy tricks, she did the fouettés, but they only had her for a limited time, a couple of weeks, so I did the rest of whatever dance shots they needed.\" In addition, Portman said in an interview with MSN: \"I did everything, and the dance double — Sarah Lane, who's a really wonderful dancer — they shot us both doing everything, but because most of the film is in close-up, they're able to use me. The parts I couldn't do were because it's doing very complicated turns en pointe. They would shoot me doing it in flat shoes and Sarah doing it in pointe shoes and find a way to make that work.\" She also stated in a November 2010 interview with WBUR that \"there's a wonderful dancer, Sarah Lane, who did the more complicated pointe work. But I did the stuff that was possible to learn in a year.\"\n\nIn December 2010, Lane also gave an interview to Kina Poon of \"Dance Magazine\" in which she responds to the question \"and how does it feel to be part of a performance that some critics are giving Natalie Portman rave reviews for?\" by saying that \"I'm not really looking for any sort of recognition. The process was a huge learning experience and I got everything I wanted out of it. But [Portman] deserves the recognition. She worked really hard.\" Sarah Lane's involvement in \"Black Swan\" was also mentioned in two other dance magazines and in an article on \"The New York Times\" website.\n\nAfter the Oscar ceremony on February 27, 2011 in which Portman won the Academy Award for Best Actress and where she thanked many people but didn't mention Lane, dancer and editor-in-chief of \"Dance Magazine\" Wendy Perron published a March 3, 2011 blog post in which she asks why a visual effects video clip showing Lane's face being replaced by Portman's was once available online but later removed from the Internet prior to the Oscars. She also speculates as to whether Portman deliberately didn't mention Lane, by asking if this was a case of \"forgetfulness in the heat of the moment? Or was this omission, and the deletion from the video, planned by the studio's publicity machine?\" Perron also asks, \"Do people really believe that it takes only one year to make a ballerina? We know that Natalie Portman studied ballet as a kid and had a year of intensive training for the film, but that doesn't add up to being a ballerina. However, it seems that many people believe that Portman did her own dancing in \"Black Swan\".\"\n\nPerron followed up the next week with a second blog post on the subject. She interviewed Lane who states that she did not expect to be named during Portman's acceptance speech because a Fox Searchlight producer had asked her to stop giving interviews until after the Oscars were over: \"They were trying to create this façade that [Portman] had become a ballerina in a year and a half ... So I knew they didn't want to publicize anything about me.\" Perron then states that Lane \"says she was more offended by that myth than any slight to her as a dancer who worked 'painstaking' hours on the set. She says she's talked to her colleagues about 'how unfortunate it is that, as professional dancers, we work so hard, but people can actually believe that it's easy enough to do it in a year. That's the thing that bothered me the most.'\"\n\nBenjamin Millepied (Portman's husband and a principal dancer from New York City Ballet who debuted in \"Black Swan\" as both actor and choreographer) responded to Perron's blog in a March 23 interview with the \"Los Angeles Times\". He states in this interview that \"there are articles now talking about her dance double [American Ballet Theatre dancer Sarah Lane] that are making it sound like [Lane] did a lot of the work, but really, she just did the footwork, and the fouettés, and one diagonal [phrase] in the studio. Honestly, 85% of that movie is Natalie.\"\n\nLane was then asked about the subject in a March 25 interview with \"Entertainment Weekly\" to which she responded that \"of the full body shots, I would say 5 percent are Natalie ... All the other shots are me.\" In a later interview with Christopher John Farley of \"The Wall Street Journal\", Lane states that...\nThis happened, she states, because only someone who has had years of training is able to perform in this manner. On the subject of whether she was being credited as she \"deserves\", she said, \"Definitely not\" and elaborates...\nHowever, she states that her response to the issue of credit is being misrepresented as it is \"kind of making me look greedy\". Instead she was actually responding to Perron's blog about the possibility of a \"cover-up\" and wanted to clarify that \"I do want people to know that you cannot absolutely become a professional ballet dancer in a year and a half no matter how hard you work. I've been doing this for 22 years.\" Lane also reiterates that she was asked by producers to stop giving interviews until after the Oscars were over and as to why she thinks that happened, explained:\nLane continued, \"I do want people to know that she did work really hard. And she lost a lot of weight so that if you looked at her, you would say she could pass from the arms up as a dancer. She's an amazing actor. I can't act like that. But to say that she did all of the dancing is absolutely ridiculous to anyone that knows anything about ballet.\"\n\nIn response, people involved with the film (particularly Aronofsky) and Fox Searchlight disputed Lane's claim. They released statements that stated: \"We were fortunate to have Sarah there to cover the more complicated dance sequences and we have nothing but praise for the hard work she did. However, Natalie herself did most of the dancing featured in the final film.\" Aronofsky stated in an interview with \"Entertainment Weekly\":\n\nIn addition, Portman's co-star in the film, Mila Kunis, also gave an interview with \"Entertainment Weekly\" in which she said, \"Natalie danced her ass off\" and that \"[Portman will] tell you [that], no, she was not on pointe when she did a fouetté [turn]. No one's going to deny that. But she did do every ounce of every one of her dances ... [Lane] wasn't used for everything. It was more like a safety net. If Nat wasn't able to do something, you'd have a safety net. The same thing that I had — I had a double as a safety net. We all did. No one ever denied it\".\n\nIn an email exchange with Farley published on March 28 in \"The Wall Street Journal\", Wendy Perron stated, \"the publicity department for Fox Searchlight, the studio behind the film, is just 'doing its job' in promoting Portman's work\". She also noted: \"'Natalie did most of the dancing where you see her in closeup, and she worked hard to make them convincing', Perron said via email. 'Obviously, the far shots plus the pirouettes and closeups on the feet were Sarah or another double.'\"\n\nOn March 30, \"The Wall Street Journal\" published an essay by Lane on the subject. (It had asked both Portman and Lane to write about these events, but Portman declined through a representative.) Lane's essay, \"My (Double) Life as A Black Swan\", describes the life of a ballet dancer and concludes by stating:\n\nIn an April 6 interview with \"E!,\" Natalie Portman responded to the question: \"What do you want to say to people who are questioning your dancing in the film?\" by stating: \"I had a chance to make something beautiful with this film and I don't want to give in to the gossip\". She also said, \"I know what went on. We had an amazing experience making the movie. I don't want to tarnish it by entering into nastiness ... I'm really proud of everyone's work on the movie and of my experience. And I'll have that forever. So it's nice for me to always know about that, no matter what kind of nastiness or gossip is going around.\" In response to a question regarding her Oscar acceptance speech, Portman responded, \"I don't remember my Oscar speech at all, and I'm actually too embarrassed to watch it.\"\n\nIn an April 15 interview with Elizabeth Vargas for ABC's \"20/20\", Lane stated: \"I didn't really specify anything in my contract about getting onscreen credit or anything ... I didn't do the movie to get fame or recognition or anything.\" She added, \"I'm not speaking because I feel like I should be heralded ... I'm speaking because [the filmmakers] are completely lying about the amount of dancing Natalie did in the movie. When those incorrect things are coming out, and they threaten the entire principle of ballet, then I feel like I need to say something.\" When Vargas asked if it is possible that both interpretations of the \"math\" can be correct, Lane responded: \"It's possible, like I said, if you're counting the close-ups of her face as actual dancing shots. But I don't call close-ups of her face actual dancing.\" \n\n\"20/20\" also asked \"Black Swan\" editor Andy Weisblum for his take on the math. He responded that \"there are about 35 shots that are full body shots in the movie. Of those 35 shots, 12 are Natalie, and then the rest are Sarah. But over the overall film, Natalie did a lot more than that. I mean, she did most of the other shots. It was sometimes hard for me to tell the difference as the editor, it was so close.\" Lane further reiterated the point that prior to the Oscar ceremony, she gave an interview with \"Glamour\" for an article titled \"The Real Black Swan\". After this interview, a \"Black Swan\" producer contacted her: \"He asked if I would please not do any more interviews until after the Oscars because it was bad for Natalie's image ... They were trying to create this image, this facade, really, that Natalie had done something extraordinary. Something that is pretty much impossible ... to become a professional ballerina in a year and half.\" Lane also emphasized that her criticism was not directed at Portman's acting: \"I think she is a really beautiful actress ... I loved working with her. And she was really focused on her character every day. I definitely think she deserves all the credit that she got with the Oscar.\"\n\nIn another interview for the Dance Channel network, Lane was asked, \"Looking back and having experienced what you had and deciding to talk about what happened, would you do \"Black Swan\" again?\" Her answer was, \"Yeah, I would.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2258212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258212", "title": "CUC International", "text": "CUC International\n\nCUC (Comp-U-Card) International Inc. was a membership-based consumer services conglomerate with travel, shopping, auto, dining, home improvement and financial services offered to more than 60 million customers worldwide based out of Stamford, Connecticut and founded by Kirk Shelton and Walter Forbes. In 1998, it became involved in a Securities and Exchange Commission investigation into what, at the time, was the biggest accounting scandal in corporate history.\n\nTheir main product, a shopping service, originally a membership telephone-based drop-ship service called Comp-U-Card begun in 1973, was made available online to users of The Source in the mid-1980s, and later CompuServe after its purchase of The Source. It later offered its Shoppers Advantage service on America Online, Prodigy, GEnie and Delphi as well. It was perhaps the first company conducting electronic commerce, although its web based service first went online in 1995.\n\nFounded in 1973 by Walter Forbes, CUC's main line of operations was its mail-order clubs such as Shopper’s Advantage, AutoVantage, Traveler’s Advantage, and its Comp-U-Card program, and had been trying to find a way to streamline its clubs and sell retail through a kind of interactive televisions. In an age before the internet and sites such as Amazon.com, this idea was innovative.\n\nCUC went through various company presidents and lost a lot of money during the ‘70’s and by 1979 was losing more than $2 million a year. By 1983, Forbes and his company had found investors such as Reader's Digest and Eckerd Drugs but had lost nearly $14 million. After licensing their “interactive shopping” idea in Europe, the Morgan Stanley group took CUC public in the United States in 1983 and raised $20 million.\n\nThroughout the 1980s and early 1990s, CUC continued to grow and acquire other companies. They made strategic deals with other entertainment, communication, retail and investment companies such as America Online and AT&T. and grew to have over 30 million customers via their mail order clubs. CUC never made any large acquisitions until 1995. Prior to that time, all acquisitions were relatively small and strategic.\n\nIn February 1996, seeking to expand its operations into the field of interactive entertainment, CUC approached software companies Sierra On-Line Inc. and Davidson & Associates Inc. They bought Sierra for $1.5 billion and Davidson for $1.6 billion, both in stock. These acquisitions allowed CUC, as a larger outlet, to streamline its distribution network. In addition, product placements and advertisements in these software companies’ products allowed CUC to find new customers in demographics it had not reached before. \n\nIn December 1997, CUC merged with HFS Incorporated. A competition was held internally at CUC, primarily among their senior marketing staff but open to all employees, to come up with a new corporate name. The winner was to receive dinner \"anywhere in the world\". No employee submission was selected to win, as the name of the company had already been decided. The new company was named Cendant.\nAfter the merger, Cendant retained its core business as a direct marketer and thereafter also specialized in Hotel Franchises, Car Rentals, Travel agencies, and its consumer software operations, Cendant Software. The merger of these two companies, which between them owned \"a virtual monopoly in the worldwide market for full-service timeshare exchange services,\" according to the Federal Trade Commission, caused the FTC to require \"the parties to divest one of their timeshare exchange companies to re-establish a viable competitor in the market\" \n\nCendant Software, composed of Sierra, Davidson & Associates (including Blizzard Entertainment), Knowledge Adventure and Gryphon Software, was sold in 1998 to French publisher Havas, which then merged with Vivendi, which then merged with Activision.\n\nAfter the accounting scandal, the original \"Comp-U-Card\" division was bought out by some remaining executives and reorganized into a company called Trilegiant. It was later renamed Affinion Group, and is still located in Stamford, Connecticut.\n\nOn October 23, 2005, Cendant Corporation announced its decision to split into four separate companies: Realogy, Travelport, Wyndham Worldwide and Avis Budget Group.\"\n\nOn April 16, 1998, less than one year after the new brand was introduced, Cendant disclosed that for three years prior to the merger, CUC had fraudulently overstated its income by over US$500 million. This caused Cendant stock to plummet from $39 to $20 in a single day, eventually reaching $9, and costing shareholders about US$14 billion. Cendant/CUC was eventually required to pay more than US$2.85 billion in class action settlements to shareholders.\n\nThe Securities and Exchange Commission brought civil charges against CUC president Kirk Shelton, and CEO and Chairman Walter Forbes, for the \"long-running financial fraud\", which, it alleged, started in 1995. The SEC stated that CUC inflated its books in order to inflate its stock price, which allowed it to use its stock to buy other companies; and in turn these mergers and acquisitions were executed in order to generate financial reserves and purchase reserves that were intended to be \"big enough to bury the fraud\".\n\nShelton was convicted in January 2005 of 12 counts of fraud and related charges, and sentenced to 10 years in prison. Shelton and Forbes were tried together; although Shelton was convicted of all 12 charges brought, the jury was unable to reach a verdict for Forbes on any charge. A hung jury deadlocked Forbes' second trial also, and a third trial was set for September 2006. Retried and convicted, he was sentenced to 12 years on January 17, 2007. Former CUC Chief Financial Officer Cosmo Corigliano, former Comptroller Anne Pember, and former accountant Casper Sabatino all plead guilty in June 2000 to several fraud and related charges.\n\nIn addition to their prison terms, both Shelton and Forbes were each ordered to pay Cendant US$3.275 billion in restitution. Cendant is unlikely to ever receive the full amount, as according to the payment schedule of US$2,000 per month ordered by the judge, it would take over 134,000 years to pay. \n\nInvestigators found that over US$500 million in nonexistent company income had been reported during 1996 and 1997. Membership sales revenue had been overreported, and membership cancellations information held back, allowing for the company's earnings to be manipulated at will. With too much debt and too little real income, however, the real resources of the company were dwindling, despite the considerable flotation of the stock numbers. As the imaginary books and the real company finances diverged more and more, the requirements of appearances became greater. Even the cooked books were insufficient to cover all of the company's losses, at which time they turned to mergers with, and acquisition of, new companies. Purchased companies' assets could be similarly inflated, and the increase either boost operating income, or write off losses. The misreporting of assets by CUC from 1995 to 1997 is similar to that performed during the Enron scandal and other recent frauds. \n\n"}
{"id": "39963848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39963848", "title": "Central Monitoring System", "text": "Central Monitoring System\n\nThe Central Monitoring System, abbreviated to CMS, is a centralized telephone interception provisioning system installed by the Centre for Development of Telematics (C-DOT), an Indian Government owned telecommunications technology development centre, and operated by Telecom Enforcement Resource and Monitoring (TERM) Cells. The CMC system is going to be set up in each major state collocated with the TERM Cells.Telecom operators in India are required by law to give access to their networks to law enforcement agencies.\nGovernment has set up the Centralized Monitoring System (CMS) to automate the process of Lawful Interception & Monitoring of telecommunications. CMS has got the approval from government. Cabinet Committee on Security has approved the project of CMS with government funding of Rs 400 Crores. Pilot trials have been completed and the system is anticipated to be progressively operationalised from the end of the financial year.\n\nThe 2007-08 annual report of the Department of Telecommunications (DoT) stated that the requirements for the CMS project had been finalized by the Telecommunication Engineering Center (TEC), after deliberations with security agencies, and that the first phase of the project, covering the \"national capital\", was scheduled to be implemented by 31 March 2008. It also stated that C-DOT had finalized the \"scope, architecture and dimensioning of the network\". The 2008-09 annual report stated that proof of concept had been demonstrated and that R&D activities for the project were \"ongoing\". The Government of India budgeted $150 million for the system as part of its 12th Five Year Plan, with Cabinet ultimately approving a higher amount. The CMS was fast-tracked following the 2008 Mumbai attacks. However, it faced repeated delays and missed the original deployment deadline of the end of 2012, and the next deadline of March 2013.\n\nCMS was first announced publicly in a press release by the Press Information Bureau (PIB), dated 26 November 2009. The release lacked details on the system but stated that CMS was a \"centralized system to monitor communications on mobile phones, landlines and the internet in the country\" and claimed that the project would \"strengthen the security environment in the country\". CMS was mentioned by Minister of Communications and Information Technology Kapil Sibal on 1 January 2011, while addressing the media to announce his 100-day agenda for the Indian telecom sector. Sibal mentioned it in passing, telling the media that \"Steps will be taken to establish the Central Monitoring System which will facilitate and prevent misuse of lawful interception facility.\" The announcement was described as \"muted\" by \"Time\" magazine.\n\nOn 9 March 2011, Minister of State for Communications & Information Technology, Sachin Pilot stated that the CMS was to be set up for the \"Lawful Interception and Monitoring of communications to address the national security concerns. It will automize the present manual system of interception and monitoring, which will enhance the secrecy of intercepted numbers and will cut down the delay in provisioning.\"\n\nOn 15 October 2012, \"The New Indian Express\" reported that the National Investigation Agency (NIA) had requested for authorization to access CMS once it became functional. The paper also stated that a pilot trial was underway. \"Mint\" cited an internal note from the DoT dated 10 June 2013, which reportedly said that CMS had \"undergone successful pilots\" and was \"likely to be commissioned\" by the end of 2013. The government began rolling out the CMS, state by state, in April 2013.\n\nIn July 2013, BlackBerry granted the Indian Government access to its messaging services. It is presumed that CMS will be used to monitor these services, although it may be done through C-DOT's Lawful Intercept and Monitoring (LIM) system. It will make two amendments to the Indian Telegraph Act to allow for intercepting and monitoring through the CMS and to allow \"collecting, storing and analyzing message pertaining to information of any nature by the Telegraph Authority\".\n\nIn exercise of the powers conferred by Section 7 of the Indian Telegraph Act, 1885 (13 of 1885), the Government of India made Rule 419A of the Indian Telegraph Rules, 1951. Directions for interception of any message or class of messages under sub-section (2) of Section 5 of the Indian Telegraph Act, 1885 shall not be issued except by an order made by the Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of Home Affairs in the case of Government of India and by the Secretary to the State Government in-charge of the Home Department in the case of a State Government. In unavoidable circumstances, such order may be made by an officer, not below the rank of a Joint Secretary to the Government of India, who has been duly authorized by the Union Home Secretary or the State Home Secretary, as the case may be:\n\nProvided that in emergent cases:\n\n(i) in remote areas, where obtaining of prior directions for interception of messages or class of messages is not feasible; or\n\n(ii) for operational reasons, where obtaining of prior directions for interception of message or class of messages is not feasible;\n\nthe required interception of any message or class of messages shall be carried out with the prior approval of the Head or the second senior most officer of the authorized security \"i.e.\" Law Enforcement Agency at the Central Level and the officers authorised in this behalf, not below the rank of Inspector General of Police at the state level but the concerned competent authority shall be informed of such interceptions by the approving authority within three working days and that such interceptions shall be got confirmed by the concerned competent authority within a period of seven working days. If the confirmation from the competent authority is not received within the stipulated seven days, such interception shall cease and the same message or class of messages shall not be intercepted thereafter without the prior approval of the Union Home Secretary or the State Home Secretary, as the case may be.\n\nThe Hon’ble Supreme Court has upheld the constitutional validity of interceptions and monitoring under Section 5(2) of the Act through its order dated 18.12.1996 in Writ Petition (C) No.256/1991 by People's Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL) Vs. Union of India. It has also observed that the right to hold a telephone conversation in the privacy of one's home or office without interference can certainly be claimed as “Right to Privacy”, and accordingly, held that telephone tapping would infringe the Right to Life and Right to Freedom of Speech & Expression enshrined in Articles 21 and 19(1)(a) respectively of the Constitution of India, unless it is permitted under the procedure established by law. The Hon’ble Court further observed that Section 5(2) of the Act clearly provides that ‘occurrence of any public emergency’ or ‘interest of public safety’ is a sine qua non for the application of these provisions. Neither of these are secretive conditions or situations. Either of the situations would be apparent to a reasonable person.\n\nInterception of communication by authorized Law Enforcement Agencies (LEAs) is carried out in accordance with Section 5(2) of the Indian Telegraph Act, 1885 read with Rule 419A of Indian Telegraph (Amendment) Rules, 2007. Following is the list of authorised Law Enforcement Agencies for Lawful Interception:\n\nCentral Agencies \n\n\nDirector General of Police, of concerned state/Commissioner of Police, Delhi for Delhi Metro City Service Area only.\n\nCall data records (CDRs) can be sought by following the statutory provisions contained in Section 92 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 or Section 5(2) of the Indian Telegraph Act, 1885 read with Rule 419 A of Indian Telegraph (Amendment) Rules, 2007.\n\nEarlier the provisioning of Interception of the Telephone was being done by the Telecom operators on the basis of duly authorized order by the competent authority in accordance with 419A telephone rule. Traditionally, the Law Enforcement Agency was approaching the various telecom companies based on the numbering scheme of the target telephone number. In CMS setup there is no change in the Interception authorization order envisaged in 419A telephone rule except that now the Law Enforcement Agency will go to only TERM Cell for any interception order provisioning irrespective of telephone numbering scheme. There is no change in the existing LIS / LIM system in the telecom network. The TERM Cell who are the field unit of DOT and carries the enforcement and regulation of licensing conditions in the field will be sole authority to provision the interception orders but interception orders will be obtained by Law Enforcement Agencies in according to the 419A telephone rule.\n\nGovernment has set up the Centralized Monitoring System (CMS) to automate the process of Lawful Interception & Monitoring of telecommunications technology. Government of India on 2015-12-02 in a reply to parliament question no. 595 on scope, objectives and framework of the CMS has struck a balance between national security, online privacy and free speech informed that to take care of the privacy of citizens, lawful interception and monitoring is governed by the Section 5(2) of Indian Telegraph Act, 1885 read with Rule 419A of Indian Telegraph (Amendment) Rules, 2007 wherein oversight mechanism exists in form of review committee under chairmanship of the Cabinet Secretary at Central Government level and Chief Secretary of the State at the State Government level. The same mechanism is applicable for the interception under the CMS Project also. Additionally, there is an inbuilt mechanism of check and balance as Security Agencies/Law Enforcement Agencies cannot provision the target and the provisioning agency cannot see the content.\n\n\"Business Standard\" criticised the fact that a warrant need not be obtained. \"Firstpost\" criticised the lack of information from the government about the project and the lack of a legal recourse for a citizen whose personal details were misused or leaked. \"The Hindu\" also criticised the lack of information available about the system.\n\n\"The Indian Express\" criticised the introduction of the system in the absence of accountability and \"any reasonably effective safeguards\" to protect privacy. \"The Times of India\" criticised the introduction of CMS without public debate or Parliamentary accountability. The paper also felt that Indian privacy laws were \"lax\", and \"far worse than American law on these matters\".\n\n\"Forbes India\" pointed out that a consequence of CMS would be that innocent citizens could be wrongly accused of criminal activity. \"The New York Times\" argued that India did not need centralised interception facilities to have centralised tracking of interception requests. The paper also expressed supported for a strong privacy law, and advised Indian citizens to \"take greater care of their own privacy and safeguard the security of their communications\".\n\nHuman rights and civil-liberties groups have expressed concerns that the CMS is prone to abuse, and is an infringement of privacy and civil liberties. Critics have described it as \"abuse of privacy rights and security-agency overreach\".\n\nMeenakshi Ganguly, the South Asia director of Human Rights Watch, felt that the move toward extensive \"surveillance capabilities enabled by digital communications\" suggests that governments are now \"casting the net wide, enabling intrusions into private lives\". Ganguly also felt that increasing surveillance around the world was an attempt by governments to \"grapple with the power of social media that can enable spontaneous street protests\".\n\nPraveen Swami, strategic affairs editor of Network18, felt that \"There is also the argument that the threat of a cyber attack is deliberately overplayed ... it is far-fetched. So there is a need for balance\". Pawan Sinha, a human rights teacher at Delhi University, believes that bypassing courts was \"really very dangerous\" and could be \"easily misused\".\n\nAnja Kovacs of the Internet Democracy Project, and a fellow at the New Delhi-based Centre for Internet and Society, felt that there was \"a growing discrepancy and power imbalance between citizens and the state\" and that in the Indian scenario, there were \"no checks and balances in place\".\n\nSunil Abraham, executive director of Bangalore-based non-profit Centre for Internet and Society, advised Indians to \"stop using proprietary software, shift to free/open source software\" and \"encrypt all sensitive Internet traffic and email using software like TOR and GNU Privacy Guard\".\n\nPranesh Prakash, director of policy at the Centre for Internet and Society, warned that the lack of privacy laws and government accountability makes the programme \"very worrisome.\" Cyberlaw specialist Pavan Duggal stated that the \"system is capable of tremendous abuse\" and \"even legitimate conversations could end up being tracked\". Mishi Choudhary, executive director, Software Freedom and Law Center stated that, \"There has been no public consultation on this issue. No one knows what they have proposed or whether it has parliamentary mandate. We don't even have empirical data on phone tapping from the government. It's like a black hole.\"\n\nHuman rights activist Neingulo Krome described CMS as \"a threat to democracy\" and also felt that the agencies involved could \"soon challenge the authority of the government itself\".\n\n"}
{"id": "3357260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3357260", "title": "DUID", "text": "DUID\n\nDUID is the acronym that stands for Driving Under the Influence of Drugs. It is akin to DUI or DWI for driving under the influence of alcohol or driving while intoxicated.\n\nSeveral American states and European countries now have \"per se\" DUID laws that presume a driver is impaired if they are found to have any detectable quantity of controlled substances in their body while operating an automobile and that the driver has no doctor's prescription for the substance. This is similar to the \"per se\" DUI/DWI laws that presume a driver is impaired when their blood alcohol content is above a certain level (currently 0.08% in the United States). There is some controversy with \"per se\" DUID laws in that a driver with any detectable quantity of controlled substances may not in fact be impaired and the detectable quantity in blood or sweat may be only the remnants of drug use in days or weeks past.\n\nThis controversy is reduced by reducing the potential for wrongful convictions in 2 ways; firstly if blood tests are used to obtain convictions most legal frameworks outside the United States require corroborating evidence of impairment to support that the blood test result represents impairment. This ranges from suspects being required to undertake physical co-ordination tests, to computerised pupil reaction tests, to use of witness accounts of general behaviour and erratic driving, and may include expert testimony as to expected impacts on performance.\n\nSecondly, when saliva tests are used (Australia), a cut off threshold is calibrated in fitting with U.S. Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration standards, at such a level that countries other than the United States have erroneously assumed that the average person would be impaired by the drug detected to a degree that crash risk is significantly raised. The original levels stated by SAMHSA were determined and established simply to detect any drug use; these data were promulgated for testing for individuals in sensitive employment positions regarding public safety and/or national security (7 Nev. L.J. 570 (2006-2007)\n\nDWI and Drugs: A Look at Per Se Laws for Marijuana). Studies have shown that this use can be as long as weeks in the past (id.). In Germany where more economical sweat tests are used, it is not possible to calibrate detection to a level linked to impairment, and all users may be identified. So unless there has been injury caused there is no criminal charge, but only an administrative one of driving with drugs present, which does not infer impairment or lack of it. This is similar to a speeding ticket as a disincentive for potentially risky behaviour. However if injury was caused, a process of further evidence gathering of driver impairment may be triggered, which can lead to a criminal violation.\n\nSystems where there is a penalty after detection of target drugs are sometimes misnamed zero tolerance for the foregoing reasons. Genuine zero tolerance jurisdictions (ones not applying rational cut offs) are generally failing to substantially reducing drugged driving, where it has been a problem originally. However, in Australia where the use of calibrated devices create de facto limits for common impairing illicit substances, roadside detections and self reporting of drug driving in National telephone surveys have reduced by 25% over the last 3–4 years.\n\nVarying DUID laws have been passed over the last 15 years in response to both increasing roles of drug driving in road tolls, and the fact prosecutors have found it difficult to prove that a driver was impaired from using a controlled substance. Practical difficulties included the transient effects of some drugs wearing off before either police or doctors had a chance to assess many suspects for impairment, and also the expense of having to call expert forensic witnesses before courts to interpret results on a case by case basis. These laws can make their cases much easier to win if they only have to prove the presence of a controlled substance in the blood or urine, without a prescription. The logic in zero tolerance jurisdictions is that the trade off more efficient prosecutions of potentially impaired individuals is well worth the possible erroneous convictions of a lesser number of drivers who may not in fact be impaired, because the driver was already violating the law by using a controlled substance without a prescription.\n\nThere is a tension with such an approach and enhanced road safety. Promoting zero drug use, as with alcohol prohibition, is not a realistic goal and Policing and Court resources are clearly best targeted at hazardous use. The most successful laws for reducing drink driving have sought to modify cultural norms and the target groups behaviour, separating impairment and driving. An approach that appears to be working most successfully to reduce drug driving, based on the Australian experience of matching public health guidelines, such as no driving for approximately 3 hours after cannabis use, with targeted legal intervention (the saliva test drug detection thresh ehold).\n\nNew Zealand in 2009 passed unique legislation, which created a zero tolerance law for driving under the influence of class A drugs (methamphetamine) to discourage their use, and a requirement for impairment testing if other drugs are suspected. New Zealand's main issue in traffic is Class C drugs, so this law could appear oriented to support the \"war on (hard) drugs\". Road Safety advocates however supported the provision for intolerance of methamphetamine, introduced by Opposition MP Trevor Mallard. As intoxicated users can pass traditional impairment tests despite being unfit to drive (mood and judgment), and the time that drivers may be most at risk is when in the come down and levels are low, making any cut off level in future self-defeating.\n\nDrug impaired driving is today suspected by the European Road Safety Observatory of being the reason that drink driving crash rates no longer reduce in direct proportion to reducing or plateaued numbers of drunk drivers found on roads. It is believed that the remaining ones are carrying more risk than their blood alcohol levels should strictly impart - due to the frequent addition of other drugs. If the historic assumptions about formulae to setting alcohol limits at particular levels to reduce harm (by anticipated degrees) in the target demographic are defunct, the implications for impaired driving reduction policy are major.\n\nRecent UK legislation effective 2 March 2015 has introduced a series of new offences into the realm of road traffic law. The government has sought to tackle the belated increased number of drivers operating vehicles with a high measure of proscribed and prescribed drugs in their system. The new offences detail at least 8 illegal drugs and 8 legally prescribed drugs, which have been given set levels to be tested. Illegal drugs will have a 'trace' level set that would constitute a criminal offence.\n\nDrivers who are taking legally prescribed medication will be required to closely follow their doctor's and drug manufacturer's guidance when taking the medication. If the driver is found to be carrying more than the set levels in their system, outside of the set guidelines, they will be guilty of an offence under the new rules.\n\n"}
{"id": "15117698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15117698", "title": "Dacia Logan Cup", "text": "Dacia Logan Cup\n\nThe Dacia Logan Cup is a One-make racing lowcost series created and managed by Renault Sport. It uses Dacia Logan cars and takes place in Germany, France, Romania and Russia.\n\nThe purpose of the series is to make motorsports accessible with an as low as possible operating cost.\n\nThe Dacia Logan Cup car is based on the road-going version of the 1.6 8V 90 hp Dacia Logan (Renault Logan in Russia) with an added kit prepared by Renault Sport Technologies. There are two different racing kits : circuit racing and rallying (tarmac or gravel). The kits contain safety equipment, parts designed to improve reliability and performance, and design features. The main components of the cars are those of the Dacia Logan to ensure low cost and easy procurement.\n\n\nThe group N Dacia Logan competing in the Romanian Rally Championship have a maximum power of 95bhp/5500 rpm and a maximum torque of 145 Nm/3000 rpm.\n\nThe Logan Cup car can be entered in open rallies Group N or open circuit motorsport events. Renault and Dacia organize One-make racing championships in various countries where the Logan is available for sale.\n\nThe Dacia Logan Cup has been held in Romania as Cupa Dacia Logan JOE in 2007. In 2008, the name was changed to Cupa Dacia Ursus and since 2009 it was known as Cupa Dacia. It was managed from the beginning by Mach1sport-management and since 2010 the competition was sponsorised by Policolor's \"Klar Professional\". Cupa Dacia is very popular, with fierce competition, as it is part of the Romanian National Rally Championship (CNR) and is affiliated to FRAS (Romanian Federation of Sport Automotive).\n\nADAC has been organizing the Cup in Germany since 2006 as the ADAC Dacia Logan Clubsport. This championship rewards not the best driver but the best amateur team.\n\nIn France, the Coupe Logan Rallycross was organised by FFSA in 2008 as a rallycross series.\n\nIn Russia, the Renault Logan Cup rally series is supported by local Renault representatives - OAO Avtoframos, which manufacture Logans at a plant in Moscow. Held since 2008, Renault Logan Cup was private at first, sponsored by AGA autocosmetics. The race calendar consists of 9 races: 4 are part of the Russian Rally Championship, 4 in budget-minded Club Rally Cup, and one final race. Championship events usually attract no more than 5 Logans, as they are expensive. Club Rally evens are twice as popular, and there have been approximately 25 cars built (total) by the end of 2009.\n\nThe grand prize of the Russian Renault Logan Cup is free participation in the top winter oval racing (named trek) - Star Race by Za Rylem magazine, which is held each February.\n\n\nChampionships :\n"}
{"id": "38054532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38054532", "title": "Directors Lounge", "text": "Directors Lounge\n\nDirectors Lounge (abbreviation: DL) is an ongoing Berlin-based film and media-art platform with year-round screenings and exhibitions in Berlin and various other cities. Annually parallel to the Berlin Film Festival (February), the central event of the Directors Lounge, the intensified presentation The Berlin International Directors Lounge takes place. Directors Lounge is the brainchild of filmmaker André Werner, artist Joachim Seinfeld and gallerist/curator Longest F. Stein in conjunction with the A&O-gallery and other artists from the Berlin media art scene.\n\nDirectors Lounge was founded informally in 2005 to provide filmmakers and video artists an unceremonious environment to meet and interact during the Berlinale, as well as to screen works that did not conform to categorization of length, method or subject matter, whether by known or obscure artists. In contrast to most such festivals, the surroundings were to be free of the “black box” atmosphere of standard cinemas and screening spaces, but rather selected to cultivate dialogue. As such, its aim was also to serve as a launching pad for collaborations. Due to the positive response, the event was expanded beyond being an annual festival, and it came to be a continuous platform for film and media art, with the Berlin International Directors Lounge (i.e., the annual event in February, see section below) remaining the focal event. The festival has been held at various locations, with special attention being shown to maintaining a non-standardized multi-media experience.\n\nThe publicly attended annual event held in February parallel to the Berlin Film Festival is primarily a film forum with an emphasis on short films, but also includes installations and hosts musical and art performances. Many films are shown as World Premieres. The artistic direction of the most recent event (stylized as “[DLX]”, Feb. 6 – 16, 2014) was credited to Julia Murakami, André Werner, Klaus W. Eisenlohr and Kenton Turk. Frequent curator-contributors have included filmmakers Alexei Dmitriev (Russia) and Shaun Wilson (Australia) as well as the late Heiko Daxl (Germany) together with Ingeborg Fülepp (Croatia), both media artists.\n\nThe first festival (2005) was held in Club el Cultrún in the Berlin district Friedrichshain. In 2006 and 2007, converted spaces fronting Karl-Marx-Allee (137 and 133 respectively) served as the festival location.\n\nAs the name implies, the film festival concentrates on providing an informal and ambient atmosphere which offers filmmakers and film enthusiasts an opportunity to come into casual contact with one other, in contrast to many similar ventures. It is open to all submissions regardless of length. Aside from selections from this Open Call, it consists of a number of specially curated programs.\n\nThe festival does not confer awards on participating films, setting it apart from most similar exhibitions. It is a non-profit event supported to a large extent by volunteer services and some sponsoring. Performers and guest speakers are not paid for their participation.\n\nNotable recent participants in this festival include Golden Globe and BAFTA-winner Michael Nyman, who attended the first public screening in Germany of his feature film \"NYman With A Movie Camera\" (2011); Canadian filmmaker Guy Maddin, who supplied a selection of short films the same year he served on the jury of the Berlinale (2011); Cannes Film Festival triple award-winning photographer/filmmaker Anton Corbijn (2012); Sundance International Jury Prize winner Simon Ellis, who appeared for a self-curated retrospective of his films (2012) and \"Cinema of Transgression\" spearhead Nick Zedd, who likewise attended a retrospective selection of his short films (2012). Notable recent premieres include the first public screening of works by Turkish digital media artist Erdal Inci in Germany (2014).\n\nPerformers have included Czech avant-garde composer Vladimír Hirsch (performing \"Underlying Scapes\"), video performance artist Max Hattler (with \"Audiovisual Abstractions\") and Deutscher Filmpreis winner Birol Ünel (reading poetry by the \"NO!art\" anti-art movement member Miron Zownir).\n\nThe February festival soon grew to encompass year-round presentations. There have been a number of Directors Lounge-related events and cooperations outside Germany, notably in London (Cog Collective, 2006), Poznań (IF Museum, 2006), Denver (TIE [The International Experimental Cinema Exhibition], 2006), Miami (Art Basel Miami Beach, 2006), St. Petersburg (in connection with the Goethe-Institut, 2008), Paris (Nuit Blanche, 2011), Los Angeles (with the Los Angeles Art Association, 2011), Timișoara (Timishort Film Festival, 2011), Rome (L'Isola del Cinema, Cinelab Groupama, 2012), Albuquerque (Experiments in Cinema, 2012 and 2013), Seoul (Zaha Museum, 2012; Gallery On, 2014), Vienna (Museumsquartier, 2014), Porto Alegre (Usina do Gasômetro, in connection with Goethe-Institut, 2015) and Salvador (in connection with Ocupação Coaty, 2016). Similar domestic events outside Berlin include Dessau (Bauhaus Kolleg, 2007), Munich (Memory in Motion, 2007), Cologne (Tease Art Fair, 2009), Essen (C.A.R., 2011), Düsseldorf (Japan Day, Blackbox-Kino in the Filmmuseum, 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014) and Dresden (Motorenhalle, 2015). These presentations often mirror the multi-media concept of the February event. Recent performers at these excursions include VJ Chuuu (Japan) and Kraftwerk founding member Eberhard Kranemann.\n\nIn addition to these out-of-town excursions, there are regular presentations in Berlin itself. Prominent among these are ongoing monthly presentations by Klaus W. Eisenlohr. These screenings characteristically include discussion rounds with the filmmakers and audience following the film presentations. Most are held in the “Z-inema” of the Z-Bar, which hosts many and varied cultural events. Eisenlohr also curates a special ongoing series of screenings entitled \"Urban Research\" that is regularly presented as part of the festival in February. Directors Lounge mounts as well other multi-media events in Berlin, often as part of city arts festivals. Recent performers at these include Turkish computer musician/sound designer and Islak Köpek member Korhan Erel (2016). and legendary Rio de Janeiro performer and \"Black Future\" member Tantão (2018) \n\nOnline, the platform maintains \"Directors Lounge Magazine\", which posts photos and curiosities of specific and broader interest and publishes original reviews of films shown by Directors Lounge as well as the \"DL Deep Feature\" series, in-depth exclusive interview-based articles on various figures associated in some way with DL. Canadian director/screenwriter Brandon Cronenberg was among its first subjects.\n\nThe focus of Directors Lounge events remains largely contemporary experimental film and an innovative reconceptualization of the nature of screenings. In 2015, the platform premiered \"DL à la carte,\" a concept for a localized but asynchronous film festival selection presentation in cooperation with shoutr labs (Berlin), in the latter's first such undertaking (Berliner Liste fair for contemporary art, September 2015).\n\nDirectors Lounge is despite the parallel time frame of the February event not in any way connected to the Berlin International Film Festival, nor is it to be confused with a later-founded German organization named Regielounge, whose name in the English translation variously appears as “Director's Lounge” or “Directors Lounge.”\n\n"}
{"id": "192174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=192174", "title": "Eurovision Song Contest 1973", "text": "Eurovision Song Contest 1973\n\nThe Eurovision Song Contest 1973 was the 18th edition of the annual Eurovision Song Contest.\n\nIt was held in Luxembourg. It was won by the Luxembourg entry, \"Tu te reconnaîtras\", this being Luxembourg's fourth win. The voting was a very close one, with Spain finishing only 4 points behind and Cliff Richard of the United Kingdom (who came second in 1968) another 2 points after. The winning song scored the highest score ever achieved in Eurovision under any voting format, recording 129 points out of a possible 160; scoring just under 81% of the possible maximum, but partly due to a scoring system which guaranteed all countries at least two points from each other country.\n\nThe city of Luxembourg, also known as Luxembourg City, is a commune with city status, and the capital of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. It is located at the confluence of the Alzette and Pétrusse Rivers in southern Luxembourg. The city contains the historic Luxembourg Castle, established by the Franks in the Early Middle Ages, around which a settlement developed.\n\nThe Grand Théâtre de Luxembourg, inaugurated in 1964 as the Théâtre Municipal de la Ville de Luxembourg, became the venue for the 1973 contest. It is the city's major venue for drama, opera and ballet.\n\nThe language rule forcing countries to enter songs sung in any of their national languages was dropped, so performers from some countries sang in English. The event was marked by controversy when the Spanish song, \"Eres tú\" (by Mocedades), was accused of plagiarism due to reasonable similarities in the melody with the Yugoslav entry from the 1966 contest (\"Brez besed\" sung by Berta Ambrož); however, \"Eres tú\" was not disqualified. After finishing second in the contest, the song went on to become a huge international hit.\n\nThe somewhat elliptical lyrics to Portugal's entry \"Tourada\" provided sufficient cover for a song that was clearly understood as a blistering assault on the country's decaying dictatorship. Also, the word \"breasts\" was used during Sweden's song entry. However, no action was taken by the EBU. An argument broke out between the singer Maxi and her Irish delegation over how the song should be performed. During rehearsals she repeatedly stopped performing in frustration. When it began to appear possible that Maxi might withdraw from the contest, RTÉ immediately sent over another singer, Tina Reynolds, to take her place just in case. In the end Miss Reynolds wasn't needed as Maxi did perform, with her entry earning 10th place on the scoreboard. (Reynolds would perform the following year.)\n\nThis contest holds the record for the most watched Eurovision Song Contest in the United Kingdom, and is also the 18th most watched television show in the same country, with an estimated 21.54 million tuning in on the night. Cliff Richard represented the UK with the song Power to All Our Friends. He came 3rd with 123 points. The winner though was Anne-Marie David with 'Tu te reconnaîtras'. In the UK it was released in English under the title \"Wonderful Dream\" and released on Epic. It made number 13.\n\nIn the light of events at the 1972 Summer Olympics in Munich, there were fears of a terrorist threat, particularly directed against Israel's first-ever entrant, leading to unusually tight security for the contest. This gave rise to one of the best-known Eurovision anecdotes, frequently recounted by the UK's long-serving commentator Terry Wogan. He recalled that the floor manager strongly advised the audience to remain seated while applauding the performances, otherwise they risked being shot by security forces.\n\nEach country had two jury members, one aged between 16 and 25 and one aged between 26 and 55. They each awarded 1 to 5 points for each song (other than the song from their own country) immediately after it was performed and the votes were collected and counted as soon as they were cast. The juries watched the show on TV from the Ville du Louvigny TV Studios of CLT and appeared on screen to confirm their scores.\n\nSeventeen nations took part in this year's contest. Malta was drawn to perform in 6th place between Norway and Monaco, but the Maltese broadcaster withdrew before the deadline to select an entry. \nThis was the first year Israel competed in the contest.\nThe 1973 contest marked the first time that women conducted the ESC orchestra. Monica Dominique conducted the Swedish entry and Nurit Hirsh conducted the Israeli entry.\n\nEach performance had a conductor who maestro the orchestra.\n\n\n\nThree artists returned to the 1973 contest, Finland's Marion Rung, who last represented the nation in 1962; 1971 entrant Massimo Ranieri from Italy; and Cliff Richard, who last performed \"Congratulations\" for the United Kingdom in 1968.\n\nBelow is a summary of all perfect 10 scores that were given during the voting.\n\nThe table below shows the order in which votes were cast during the 1973 contest along with the spokesperson who was responsible for announcing the votes for their respective country. Each national broadcaster [with the exception of Israel] also sent a commentator to the contest, in order to provide coverage of the contest in their own native language. Details of the commentators and the broadcasting station for which they represented are also included in the table below.\n"}
{"id": "1046906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1046906", "title": "I Am the Greatest: The Adventures of Muhammad Ali", "text": "I Am the Greatest: The Adventures of Muhammad Ali\n\nI Am the Greatest: The Adventures of Muhammad Ali is an animated series featuring boxer Muhammad Ali, who starred as his own voice. The series was broadcast Saturday mornings on NBC in the fall of 1977, but was cancelled after just 13 episodes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8384293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8384293", "title": "International Conference to Review the Global Vision of the Holocaust", "text": "International Conference to Review the Global Vision of the Holocaust\n\nThe International Conference to Review the Global Vision of the Holocaust was a two-day conference that opened on December 11, 2006, in Tehran, Iran. Iranian Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki said the conference sought \"neither to deny nor prove the Holocaust... [but] to provide an appropriate scientific atmosphere for scholars to offer their opinions in freedom about a historical issue.\" Notable attendees included David Duke, Moshe Aryeh Friedman, Robert Faurisson, Gerald Fredrick Töben, Richard Krege, Michèle Renouf, Ahmed Rami and Yisroel Dovid Weiss of Neturei Karta.\n\nThe conference was described as a \"Holocaust denial conference\" or a \"meeting of Holocaust deniers.\"\n\nThe conference provoked criticism. The Vatican condemned it, the US administration of President George W. Bush called it an \"affront to the entire civilized world,\" and British Prime Minister Tony Blair described it as \"shocking beyond belief.\" Holocaust historians attending a separate conference in Berlin organized in protest against the Iranian one called it \"an attempt to cloak anti-Semitism in scholarly language.\"\n\nAccording to the Iranian Foreign Ministry, the conference would not aim to deny or prove the Holocaust, but to create opportunities \"for suitable scientific research so that the hidden and unhidden angles of this most important political issue of the 20th century becomes more transparent.\" The event was organized by the ministry's Institute for Political & International Studies (IPIS).\n\nThe goal of the conference was to discuss the reality of the Nazis' extermination of Jews during World War II. The Foreign Minister of Iran and other officials stated that the conference was meant to \"create an opportunity for thinkers who cannot express their views freely in Europe about the Holocaust\".\n\nAccording to the Iranian Foreign Minister: \"If the official version of the Holocaust is thrown into doubt, then the identity and nature of Israel will be thrown into doubt. And if, during this review, it is proved that the Holocaust was a historical reality, then what is the reason for the Palestinians having to pay the cost of the Nazis' crimes?\"\n\nThere were 67 attendees from 30 countries.\nAmerican David Duke, a former Louisiana State Representative and one-time Ku Klux Klan leader, attended the conference. French writer Georges Thiel, who had been convicted under Holocaust denial laws in France, attended, as did Fredrick Töben of Australia who had been imprisoned in Germany for three months in 1999 for Holocaust denial. Robert Faurisson, a convicted Holocaust denier from France also attended, as well as Ahmed Rami, a Swedish-Moroccan Holocaust denier who was imprisoned in Sweden for inciting racial hatred. German psychologist and National Democratic Party of Germany (NPD) functionary Bendikt Frings was invited by Iranian Deputy Minister of Islamic Guidance Mohammad Ali Ramin; Frings said that he had waited for such a conference \"all my childhood\". The NPD is widely considered the most significant German Neo-Nazi party.\n\nMichèle Renouf, an Australian-born British defender of Holocaust denial author David Irving also attended. At the conference, Renouf claimed that the \"terrible things\" that happened to the Jews in World War II were brought upon by Jewish leaders.\n\nAmong the participants at the conference were six members of the anti-Zionist Jewish organisation Neturei Karta, including Aharon Cohen who said he had come to the conference to put the Orthodox Jewish viewpoint across. Cohen also said that while the Holocaust indisputably happened, \"in no way can it be used as a justification for perpetrating unjust acts against the Palestinians.\"\n\nShiraz Dossa, a professor of Political Science at St. Francis Xavier University in Nova Scotia, Canada, presented a paper at the conference and was roundly vilified for his participation by the Canadian media and his university.\n\n, a computer teacher from Sweden, gave a presentation claiming that 300,000 Jews had been killed as opposed to six million.\n\nFrench Holocaust denier Roger Garaudy was unable to attend the conference for health reasons. However, he reportedly sent a videotaped message supporting Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's view that Israel should cease to exist.\n\nIsraeli Arab lawyer Khaled Kasab Mahameed was denied permission to attend the conference by Iran after it was discovered that he holds Israeli citizenship. He had been previously invited to attend by the Iranian government; however Iran does not grant visas to Israelis. According to \"Ha'aretz\", Mahameed intended \"to tell the conference that the Holocaust did happen and that Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's position of Holocaust denial is wrong\". He stated:\n\nEverything that happened must be internalized and the facts must not be denied... It is the obligation of all Arabs and all Muslims to understand the significance of the Holocaust. If their goal is to understand their adversary, they must understand the Holocaust... The \"naqba\" [disaster] the Palestinians experienced in 1948 is small compared to the Holocaust, but the political implications of the Holocaust have made its terrors a burden on the Palestinian people alone... The Holocaust has all the reasons for the creation of the Arab-Israeli conflict, but also has potential to bring peace.\"\n\nThe Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad was quoted as saying: \"The Zionist regime will be wiped out soon the same way the Soviet Union was, and humanity will achieve freedom [and] elections should be held among Jews, Christians and Muslims so the population of Palestine can select their government and destiny for themselves in a democratic manner.\"\n\nPapers delivered by participants from countries ranging from Austria to Indonesia included \"A Challenge to the Official Holocaust Story,\" and \"Holocaust, the Achilles Heel of a Primordial Jewish Trojan.\"\n\nDavid Duke gave a speech in which he said: \"In Europe you can freely question, ridicule and deny Jesus Christ. The same is true for the prophet Muhammad, and nothing will happen to you. But offer a single question of the smallest part of the Holocaust and you face prison.\"\n\nFrederick Töben told the conference: \"Minds are being switched off to the Holocaust dogma as it is being sold as a historical fact and yet we are not able to question it. This is mental rape.\"\n\nRabbi Aharon Cohen told the conference: \"There is no doubt whatsoever, that during World War II there developed a terrible and catastrophic policy and action of genocide perpetrated by Nazi Germany against the Jewish people, confirmed by innumerable eyewitness survivors and fully documented again and again...The figure of six million is regularly quoted. One may wish to dispute this actual figure, but the crime was just as dreadful whether the millions of victims numbered six million, five million or four million. The method of murder is also irrelevant, whether it was by gas chamber, firing squads or whatever. The evil was the same. It would be a terrible affront to the memory of those who perished to belittle the guilt of the crime in any way.\n\nRichard Krege maintained his suggestion of diesel exhaust gas chambers to be an \"outright lie,\" and showed a model of the Treblinka extermination camp to illustrate this. He claimed that up to 10,000 people died in the camp, but of disease, instead of planned extermination. He said, \"There is no scientific proof to show that this place was an extermination camp. All that exists are the words of some people.\"\n\nAccording to \"IRNA\", the conference participants agreed to start a world foundation for Holocaust studies with Mohammad-Ali Ramin as its Secretary General. The stated purpose of the foundation was to \"find out the truth about holocaust.\" More immediate tasks included preparing for the next Holocaust conference and composing the foundation's letter of association. The main office would initially be located in Tehran, though Ramin said it will eventually move to Berlin, \"once proper grounds are prepared\".\n\nIran's sole Jewish member of parliament Maurice Motamed said: \"Holding this conference after having a competition of cartoons about the Holocaust has put a lot of pressure on Jews all over the world;\" and that \"The conference has upset Iran's 25,000-strong Jewish community.\"\n\nThough reformist demonstrations had been rare since Ahmadinejad took office, a few dozen students burnt pictures of him and chanted \"death to the dictator\" as Ahmadinejad gave a speech at Amirkabir University of Technology in Tehran on 12 December 2006. One student activist said the protest was against the \"shameful\" Holocaust conference, and added that Ahmadinejad had \"brought to our country Nazis and racists from around the world.\" Ahmadinejad responded by saying: \"Everyone should know that Ahmadinejad is prepared to be burnt in the path of true freedom, independence and justice.\"\n\nHowever, Ali Akbar Mohtashamipour, Secretary-General of the International Congress to Support the Palestinian Intifada, expressed support for the conference, saying that the \"Western and Zionist media have always been aggrandizing the dimensions of the reality of Holocaust, mixing a bit of truth with a lot of lies\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThirty four of the world’s leading policy institutes released a statement on 15 December that they would break off all relations with Iran's Institute for Political and International Studies. Signatories included the directors of the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London; the Aspen Institute in Berlin; the German Marshall Fund in Washington; the Geneva Centre for Security Policy; the Center for International Studies and Research in Paris; the United States Studies Centre in Sydney, Australia; and the Center for International Relations in Warsaw. The conference was condemned by the Council on American-Islamic Relations (CAIR).\n\nAyaan Hirsi Ali called on Western leaders to wake up to the reality of the situation. She stated \"For the majority of Muslims in the world the Holocaust is not a major historical event they deny; they simply do not know because they were never informed. Worse, most of us are groomed to wish for a Holocaust of Jews.\" She says that she never learned anything about the Holocaust while she was studying in Saudi Arabia and Kenya. She called for action from charities: \"Western and Christian charities in the third world should take it upon themselves to inform Muslims and non-Muslims alike, in the areas where they are active, about the Holocaust.\"\n\nA number of Arab journalists in Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, and the United Kingdom have criticized this conference, arguing that it included unqualified non-historian speakers, spread the hate and propaganda of an extremist Iranian government, defended the heinous crimes of the Nazis, damaged Iran diplomatically at a time when its foreign relations were difficult, and reflected a lack of human and cultural sensitivity.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3822417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3822417", "title": "Ivy Film Festival", "text": "Ivy Film Festival\n\nIvy Film Festival (IFF) is the world's largest student-run film festival, hosted annually on the campus of Brown University. The Festival was started in 2001 by then-Brown juniors David Peck and Justin Slosky in collaboration with students of the other seven Ivy League schools. The founders' goal was to create a venue to showcase and honor the work of talented student filmmakers. Ivy Film Festival currently accepts submissions from around the world for both its short film and screenplay competitions.\n\nIn addition to student film screenings, the Festival hosts advanced screenings of commercial and independent features as well as discussion panels, academic workshops, and keynote addresses with industry guests, who attend the Festival to engage in wide-ranging discussions about film and the entertainment industry. Subjects addressed at festival events have included the relationship between film and social justice, how one can achieve success in the entertainment industry, and the merits of attending film school. Past attendees of Ivy Film Festival include well-known film directors, screenwriters, and actors, such as Jack Nicholson, Martin Scorsese, Oliver Stone, Tim Robbins, Lena Dunham, Adrien Brody, Aaron Sorkin, James Franco, Wes Craven, Philip Glass, Mira Nair, Chan-wook Park, Doug Liman, John Cho, Kal Penn, Davis Guggenheim, Dylan Kidd, James Toback, John Hamburg, Julia Stiles, Laura Linney, and Michael Showalter. Preview screenings hosted by the Festival have included \"Neighbors\", \"Locke\", \"The Way, Way Back\", \"The East\", \"(500) Days of Summer\", \"Star Trek\" (2009), \"Mean Girls\", \"The Believer\", \"Brick\", \"Shine a Light\", \"The Aristocrats,\" and the Academy Award-winning and -nominated \"No Country for Old Men\", \"Super Size Me\", \"Half Nelson\", \"Murderball\", \"Water\", and \"Iraq in Fragments\".\n\nThe inaugural Ivy Film Festival was held in December 2001. A product of collaboration between the organizers, Brown's Modern Culture and Media Department, the Brown Film Society and students at other Ivy League universities, the festival weekend screened 46 student films, selected from over 150 entries, and welcomed over 300 attendees. Events hosted by the Festival included talks from Oliver Stone and Henry Bean as well as the U.S. premiere of James Toback’s \"Harvard Man\", starring Adrien Grenier.\n\nThe second festival, held in April 2003 due to its growth, attracted even more attention. The additions of an international student film competition and a screenplay competition broadened interest. Guests such as Tim Robbins and Julia Stiles spoke and accepted awards; director Dylan Kidd shared his film \"Roger Dodger\", and panelists from across the country shared their advice and experiences with students.\n\nThe 2004 Ivy Film Festival featured unprecedented expansion, with 1,500 people in attendance and over 200 student films submitted. The Festival hosted and presented awards to director Wes Craven and Academy-award-winning actor Adrien Brody, as well as holding a business panel featuring Paramount Studio Vice Chairman Rob Friedman. The Festival held exclusive advance screenings of \"Mean Girls\" and \"Supersize Me\", celebrated films at the time that are now considered favorite cult classics.\n\nIn 2005, the Ivy Film Festival screened the movies \"The Aristocrats\" and \"Murderball\" and featured John Hamburg, writer of the screenplays of \"Zoolander\" and \"Meet the Parents\", as a keynote speaker. Ellen Kuras, cinematographer for \"Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind\" also led a workshop, while Luke Greenfield led a talk focused on working in Hollywood.\n\nThe 5th annual Ivy Film Festival, held in 2006, featured screenings of \"Black Gold\", \"\", \"Kinky Boots\", \"Take the Lead\", and \"The Children of Chabannes\", as well as Sundance favorites \"Iraq in Fragments\", \"Half Nelson\", and \"Brick\". Students from Columbia University, New York University, Cornell University, and Brown University walked away with awards in the Undergraduate categories, which were jured by Brown alumnus Michael Showalter, the acclaimed actor and co-writer of \"Wet Hot American Summer\"; Marc Francis, the director of \"Black Gold\"; Mark Ross, a producer at Maguire Entertainment; David Courier, a senior programmer for Outfest, the Sundance Film Festival and the Berlin Film Festival; and Lisa Gossels, the director of Children of Chabannes.\n\nThe 2007 festival included pre-release screenings of Sundance Film Festival selections, panels, and workshops with award-winning filmmakers, and presentations by Doug Liman, director of \"The Bourne Identity\" and Chan-wook Park, director of \"Oldboy\". Other guests included actor John Cho and Academy Award-winning writer/director Sarah Kernochan.\n\nThe 2008 Film Festival held the distinction of being the first student film festival to have a machinima genre. The 2008 festival featured a keynote address by Fox Filmed Entertainment Co-Chairman and CEO, Tom Rothman, and a master class led by Martin Scorsese.\n\nThe 2009 Film Festival occurred on April 21–26 and featured a keynote panel with actor Jack Nicholson, \"Chinatown\" producer Robert Evans, and Paramount Chairman and CEO Brad Grey, moderated by former \"Variety\" Editor-in-Chief Peter Bart.\n\nThe 2010 Ivy Film Festival featured an advance screening of \"Waiting for Superman\", followed by a Q&A with director Davis Guggenheim (also the director of \"An Inconvenient Truth\"). The festival also featured two film industry panels. The first, titled “From the Ground Up,” featured producer Andrew Renzi and writer/actor Christopher Thornton. The second, titled “Where Creativity and Commerce Merge,” featured production and development VP Abby Ex, development VP Bryan Unkeless, executive VP Milan Popelka, and production VP Adam Rosenberg.\n\nThe 2011 Ivy Film Festival occurred Tuesday, April 19 to Sunday, April 24. The festival featured undergraduate and graduate films along with professional films previously screened at the Sundance Film Festival. Most of the screenings included question and answer panels with directors, producers, writers, and actors alike. Honored guests included journalist Charlie Rose, director Max Winkler and actor Michael Angarano, among others. IFF also hosted a keynote panel featuring acclaimed actor James Franco and the screenwriter of \"The Social Network\" and \"The West Wing\", Aaron Sorkin.\n\nThe 2012 Ivy Film Festival featured a selection of industry talks, including Laura Linney ‘86 and Kal Penn. Barry Levinson, the Oscar-winning director of \"Rain Man\", accompanied his newest film \"The Bay\", his first foray into the genre of horror. IFF also premiered the first two episodes of HBO’s hit series \"Girls\" before they were televised and hosted a Q&A with creator, director, and star Lena Dunham. Additional events included advanced screenings such as Zal Batmanglij’s directorial debut, \"The Sound of My Voice\"; the celebrated documentary \"The Invisible War\"; and the documentary \"The Atomic States of America\", which was followed by a talk with producer George Hornig. These events complemented diverse Official Selection blocks, featuring submissions from over fifteen countries, including Zambia, Nicaragua, Poland, and Nepal.\n\nThe 2013 Ivy Film Festival included pre-release screenings of \"The Way, Way Back\", \"The Kings of Summer\", \"The East\", and \"The Reluctant Fundamentalist\", which was followed by a Q&A with director Mira Nair. Brown alumni and \"Warm Bodies\" director Jonathan Levine ‘00 spoke about his film at a preview screening in January. Other guests included producers Christine Vachon ‘83 (\"Boys Don’t Cry\"), Brad Simpson ‘95 (\"World War Z\"), and Mark Heyman ‘02 (\"Black Swan\"). The Festival also hosted screenings of \"Searching for Sugar Man\" and \"After Tiller\" as part of its Stories for Change Series. The Festival concluded with a packed screening of the horror classic \"Scream\", which was accompanied by a keynote address from horror movie maestro Wes Craven.\n\nThe 2014 Ivy Film Festival featured screenings of diverse films including Darren Aronofsky's \"Noah\", Steven Knight's \"Locke\", Leah Meyerhoff's \"I Believe in Unicorns\", Zachary Heinzerling's \"Cutie and the Boxer\", and Nicholas Stoller's \"Neighbors\". Keynote speaker Wes Anderson addressed audiences in two sold-out theatre rooms via Skype following a screening of his critically acclaimed film, \"The Grand Budapest Hotel\". The 2014 Festival had a number of individual speakers including Casey Neistat and David Frankel as well as a “Women in Entertainment” panel Nancy Josephson (talent agent), Karen O’Hara (set decorator, \"The Color of Money\", \"Alice in Wonderland\"), Samantha Stiglitz (casting director, \"Final Destination 5\"), and Lauren Zalaznick (TV executive).\n\nIn 2015, Ivy Film Festival featured advanced screenings of \"Slow West\" (starring Michael Fassbender) and \"Trainwreck\" (starring Amy Schumer) as well as screenings and \"The Sisterhood of Night\" and \"Dosa Hunt\", which were both followed by panel discussions. The 2015 Festival introduced the Screenplay Reading series, where selected submissions to the Screenplay Competition were read live by a panel of actors. Attendees were invited to participate in workshops with Matthew Frost and Michael Schultz (on short films and media production respectively), and to see a panel focusing on animation in film with Brenda Chapman, Ron Ryder, and Barbara Meier. The Festival also hosted keynote addresses from Todd Haynes ‘85 and Jason Schwartzman.\n\nThe 2016 Ivy Film Festival took place from April 6 through April 12, featuring keynote speakers Jodie Foster and Robert De Niro and pre-release screenings of the films \"Krisha\" and \"\". Panels featuring special industry guests included \"The Audience in Revolt: 'Gender, Race, and Representation in Hollywood'\" and \"New Modes of Storytelling.\" 2016 marks the first year that the official selection will be exhibited at each Ivy League university, and the festival also featured a screening with a reception in New York City on April 29. Robert De Niro's appearance was part of a moderated discussion led by Brown University's current president, Christina Paxson, and preceded by a screening of the HBO documentary \"Remembering the Artist, Robert De Niro, Sr.\"\n"}
{"id": "41520493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41520493", "title": "Jamal al-Jamal", "text": "Jamal al-Jamal\n\nJamal al-Jamal (Arabic: جمال الجمال; April 3, 1957–January 1, 2014) was a Palestinian diplomat. He was ambassador to the Czech Republic from 11 October 2013 until his death.\n\nJamal al-Jamal () was born in 1957, in Beirut's Shatila refugee camp. His family is originally from Jaffa in what is now Israel. He joined Fatah in 1975 and was appointed Deputy Ambassador to Bulgaria in 1979. Starting in 1984, he served as a diplomat in Prague, eventually as acting ambassador. Between 2005 and 2013, he functioned as consul general in Alexandria, Egypt. In October 2013, he was appointed Ambassador to the Czech Republic.\n\nAccording to Czech police, al-Jamal was fatally injured in an explosion that shook his official residence on New Year's Day 2014. He died several hours after being taken to the hospital, authorities said. Czech police claim that the blast was caused by an explosive device in a safe, and that it was not a preplanned attack. Later, Czech police found illegal weapons and ammunition in the Palestinian Embassy in Prague. Czech Foreign Minister Jan Kohout later said that the incident represented \"a serious violation of the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations.\" The Mayor of Suchdol, Petr Hejl, has called for the embassy to be moved from the district.\n"}
{"id": "269055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269055", "title": "James VI and I", "text": "James VI and I\n\nJames VI and I (James Charles Stuart; 19 June 1566 – 27 March 1625) was King of Scotland as James VI from 24 July 1567 and King of England and Ireland as James I from the union of the Scottish and English crowns on 24 March 1603 until his death in 1625. The kingdoms of Scotland and England were individual sovereign states, with their own parliaments, judiciaries, and laws, though both were ruled by James in personal union.\n\nJames was the son of Mary, Queen of Scots, and a great-great-grandson of Henry VII, King of England and Lord of Ireland, positioning him to eventually accede to all three thrones. James succeeded to the Scottish throne at the age of thirteen months, after his mother was compelled to abdicate in his favour. Four different regents governed during his minority, which ended officially in 1578, though he did not gain full control of his government until 1583. In 1603, he succeeded the last Tudor monarch of England and Ireland, Elizabeth I, who died childless. He continued to reign in all three kingdoms for 22 years, a period known after him as the Jacobean era, until his death in 1625 at the age of 58. After the Union of the Crowns, he based himself in England (the largest of the three realms) from 1603, only returning to Scotland once in 1617, and styled himself \"King of Great Britain and Ireland\". He was a major advocate of a single parliament for England and Scotland. In his reign, the Plantation of Ulster and British colonisation of the Americas began.\n\nAt 57 years and 246 days, James's reign in Scotland was longer than those of any of his predecessors. He achieved most of his aims in Scotland but faced great difficulties in England, including the Gunpowder Plot in 1605 and repeated conflicts with the English Parliament. Under James, the \"Golden Age\" of Elizabethan literature and drama continued, with writers such as William Shakespeare, John Donne, Ben Jonson, and Sir Francis Bacon contributing to a flourishing literary culture. James himself was a talented scholar, the author of works such as \"Daemonologie\" (1597), \"The True Law of Free Monarchies\" (1598), and \"Basilikon Doron\" (1599). He sponsored the translation of the Bible into English that would later be named after him: the Authorised King James Version. Sir Anthony Weldon claimed that James had been termed \"the wisest fool in Christendom\", an epithet associated with his character ever since. Since the latter half of the 20th century, historians have tended to revise James's reputation and treat him as a serious and thoughtful monarch. He was strongly committed to a peace policy, and tried to avoid involvement in religious wars, especially the Thirty Years' War (1618–1648) that devastated much of Central Europe. He tried but failed to prevent the rise of hawkish elements in the English Parliament who wanted war with Spain.\n\nJames was the only son of Mary, Queen of Scots, and her second husband, Henry Stuart, Lord Darnley. Both Mary and Darnley were great-grandchildren of Henry VII of England through Margaret Tudor, the older sister of Henry VIII. Mary's rule over Scotland was insecure, and she and her husband, being Roman Catholics, faced a rebellion by Protestant noblemen. During Mary's and Darnley's difficult marriage, Darnley secretly allied himself with the rebels and conspired in the murder of the Queen's private secretary, David Rizzio, just three months before James's birth.\n\nJames was born on 19 June 1566 at Edinburgh Castle, and as the eldest son and heir apparent of the monarch automatically became Duke of Rothesay and Prince and Great Steward of Scotland. He was baptised \"Charles James\" or \"James Charles\" on 17 December 1566 in a Catholic ceremony held at Stirling Castle. His godparents were Charles IX of France (represented by John, Count of Brienne), Elizabeth I of England (represented by the Earl of Bedford), and Emmanuel Philibert, Duke of Savoy (represented by ambassador Philibert du Croc). Mary refused to let the Archbishop of St Andrews, whom she referred to as \"a pocky priest\", spit in the child's mouth, as was then the custom. The subsequent entertainment, devised by Frenchman Bastian Pagez, featured men dressed as satyrs and sporting tails, to which the English guests took offence, thinking the satyrs \"done against them\".\n\nJames's father, Darnley, was murdered on 10 February 1567 at Kirk o' Field, Edinburgh, perhaps in revenge for the killing of Rizzio. James inherited his father's titles of Duke of Albany and Earl of Ross. Mary was already unpopular, and her marriage on 15 May 1567 to James Hepburn, 4th Earl of Bothwell, who was widely suspected of murdering Darnley, heightened widespread bad feeling towards her. In June 1567, Protestant rebels arrested Mary and imprisoned her in Loch Leven Castle; she never saw her son again. She was forced to abdicate on 24 July 1567 in favour of the infant James and to appoint her illegitimate half-brother, James Stewart, Earl of Moray, as regent.\n\nThe care of James was entrusted to the Earl and Countess of Mar, \"to be conserved, nursed, and upbrought\" in the security of Stirling Castle. James was anointed King of Scots at the age of thirteen months at the Church of the Holy Rude, Stirling, by Adam Bothwell, Bishop of Orkney, on 29 July 1567. The sermon at the coronation was preached by John Knox. In accordance with the religious beliefs of most of the Scottish ruling class, James was brought up as a member of the Protestant Church of Scotland, the Kirk. The Privy Council selected George Buchanan, Peter Young, Adam Erskine (lay abbot of Cambuskenneth), and David Erskine (lay abbot of Dryburgh) as James's preceptors or tutors. As the young king's senior tutor, Buchanan subjected James to regular beatings but also instilled in him a lifelong passion for literature and learning. Buchanan sought to turn James into a God-fearing, Protestant king who accepted the limitations of monarchy, as outlined in his treatise \"De Jure Regni apud Scotos\".\n\nIn 1568, Mary escaped from her imprisonment at Loch Leven Castle, leading to several years of sporadic violence. The Earl of Moray defeated Mary's troops at the Battle of Langside, forcing her to flee to England, where she was subsequently kept in confinement by Elizabeth. On 23 January 1570, Moray was assassinated by James Hamilton of Bothwellhaugh. The next regent was James's paternal grandfather Matthew Stewart, 4th Earl of Lennox, who was carried fatally wounded into Stirling Castle a year later after a raid by Mary's supporters. His successor, the Earl of Mar, \"took a vehement sickness\" and died on 28 October 1572 at Stirling. Mar's illness, wrote James Melville, followed a banquet at Dalkeith Palace given by James Douglas, 4th Earl of Morton.\n\nMorton was elected to Mar's office and proved in many ways the most effective of James's regents, but he made enemies by his rapacity. He fell from favour when Frenchman Esmé Stewart, Sieur d'Aubigny, first cousin of James's father Lord Darnley and future Earl of Lennox, arrived in Scotland and quickly established himself as the first of James's powerful favourites. Morton was executed on 2 June 1581, belatedly charged with complicity in Darnley's murder. On 8 August, James made Lennox the only duke in Scotland. The king, then fifteen years old, remained under the influence of Lennox for about one more year.\n\nLennox was a Protestant convert, but he was distrusted by Scottish Calvinists who noticed the physical displays of affection between him and the king and alleged that Lennox \"went about to draw the King to carnal lust\". In August 1582, in what became known as the Ruthven Raid, the Protestant earls of Gowrie and Angus lured James into Ruthven Castle, imprisoned him, and forced Lennox to leave Scotland. During James's imprisonment (19 September 1582), John Craig, whom the king had personally appointed Royal Chaplain in 1579, rebuked him so sharply from the pulpit for having issued a proclamation so offensive to the clergy \"that the king wept\".\n\nAfter James was liberated in June 1583, he assumed increasing control of his kingdom. He pushed through the Black Acts to assert royal authority over the Kirk, and denounced the writings of his former tutor Buchanan. Between 1584 and 1603, he established effective royal government and relative peace among the lords, ably assisted by John Maitland of Thirlestane who led the government until 1592. An eight-man commission known as the Octavians brought some control over the ruinous state of James's finances in 1596, but it drew opposition from vested interests. It was disbanded within a year after a riot in Edinburgh, which was stoked by anti-Catholicism and led the court to withdraw to Linlithgow temporarily.\n\nOne last Scottish attempt against the king's person occurred in August 1600, when James was apparently assaulted by Alexander Ruthven, the Earl of Gowrie's younger brother, at Gowrie House, the seat of the Ruthvens. Ruthven was run through by James's page John Ramsay and the Earl of Gowrie was killed in the ensuing fracas; there were few surviving witnesses. Given James's history with the Ruthvens and the fact that he owed them a great deal of money, his account of the circumstances was not universally believed.\n\nIn 1586, James signed the Treaty of Berwick with England. That and the execution of his mother in 1587, which he denounced as a \"preposterous and strange procedure\", helped clear the way for his succession south of the border. Queen Elizabeth was unmarried and childless, and James was her most likely successor. Securing the English succession became a cornerstone of his policy. During the Spanish Armada crisis of 1588, he assured Elizabeth of his support as \"your natural son and compatriot of your country\".\n\nThroughout his youth, James was praised for his chastity, since he showed little interest in women. After the loss of Lennox, he continued to prefer male company. A suitable marriage, however, was necessary to reinforce his monarchy, and the choice fell on fourteen-year-old Anne of Denmark, younger daughter of Protestant Frederick II. Shortly after a proxy marriage in Copenhagen in August 1589, Anne sailed for Scotland but was forced by storms to the coast of Norway. On hearing that the crossing had been abandoned, James sailed from Leith with a 300-strong retinue to fetch Anne personally in what historian David Harris Willson called \"the one romantic episode of his life\". The couple were married formally at the Bishop's Palace in Oslo on 23 November and returned to Scotland on 1 May 1590, after stays at Elsinore and Copenhagen and a meeting with Tycho Brahe. By all accounts, James was at first infatuated with Anne and, in the early years of their marriage, seems always to have shown her patience and affection. The royal couple produced three children who survived to adulthood: Henry Frederick, Prince of Wales, who died of typhoid fever in 1612, aged 18; Elizabeth, later queen of Bohemia; and Charles, his successor. Anne died before her husband in March 1619.\n\nJames's visit to Denmark, a country familiar with witch-hunts, sparked an interest in the study of witchcraft, which he considered a branch of theology. He attended the North Berwick witch trials, the first major persecution of witches in Scotland under the Witchcraft Act 1563. Several people were convicted of using witchcraft to send storms against James's ship, most notably Agnes Sampson.\n\nJames became obsessed with the threat posed by witches and wrote \"Daemonologie\" in 1597, a tract inspired by his personal involvement that opposed the practice of witchcraft and that provided background material for Shakespeare's \"Tragedy of Macbeth\". James personally supervised the torture of women accused of being witches. After 1599, his views became more sceptical. In a later letter written in England to his son Henry, James congratulates the prince on \"the discovery of yon little counterfeit wench. I pray God ye may be my heir in such discoveries ... most miracles now-a-days prove but illusions, and ye may see by this how wary judges should be in trusting accusations\".\n\nThe forcible dissolution of the Lordship of the Isles by James IV in 1493 had led to troubled times for the western seaboard. He had subdued the organised military might of the Hebrides, but he and his immediate successors lacked the will or ability to provide an alternative form of governance. As a result, the 16th century became known as \"linn nan creach\", the time of raids. Furthermore, the effects of the Reformation were slow to affect the \"Gàidhealtachd\", driving a religious wedge between this area and centres of political control in the Central Belt.\n\nIn 1540, James V had toured the Hebrides, forcing the clan chiefs to accompany him. There followed a period of peace, but the clans were soon at loggerheads with one another again. During James VI's reign, the citizens of the Hebrides were portrayed as lawless barbarians rather than being the cradle of Scottish Christianity and nationhood. Official documents describe the peoples of the Highlands as \"void of the knawledge and feir of God\" who were prone to \"all kynd of barbarous and bestile cruelteis\". The Gaelic language, spoken fluently by James IV and probably by James V, became known in the time of James VI as \"Erse\" or Irish, implying that it was foreign in nature. The Scottish Parliament decided that Gaelic had become a principal cause of the Highlanders' shortcomings and sought to abolish it.\n\nIt was against this background that James VI authorised the \"Gentleman Adventurers of Fife\" to civilise the \"most barbarous Isle of Lewis\" in 1598. James wrote that the colonists were to act \"not by agreement\" with the local inhabitants, but \"by extirpation of thame\". Their landing at Stornoway began well, but the colonists were driven out by local forces commanded by Murdoch and Neil MacLeod. The colonists tried again in 1605 with the same result, although a third attempt in 1607 was more successful. The Statutes of Iona were enacted in 1609, which required clan chiefs to provide support for Protestant ministers to Highland parishes; to outlaw bards; to report regularly to Edinburgh to answer for their actions; and to send their heirs to Lowland Scotland, to be educated in English-speaking Protestant schools. So began a process \"specifically aimed at the extirpation of the Gaelic language, the destruction of its traditional culture and the suppression of its bearers.\"\n\nIn the Northern Isles, James's cousin Patrick Stewart, Earl of Orkney, resisted the Statutes of Iona and was consequently imprisoned. His natural son Robert led an unsuccessful rebellion against James, and the Earl and his son were hanged. Their estates were forfeited, and the Orkney and Shetland islands were annexed to the Crown.\n\nIn 1597–98, James wrote \"The True Law of Free Monarchies\" and \"Basilikon Doron\" (\"Royal Gift\"), in which he argues a theological basis for monarchy. In the \"True Law\", he sets out the divine right of kings, explaining that kings are higher beings than other men for Biblical reasons, though \"the highest bench is the sliddriest to sit upon\". The document proposes an absolutist theory of monarchy, by which a king may impose new laws by royal prerogative but must also pay heed to tradition and to God, who would \"stirre up such scourges as pleaseth him, for punishment of wicked kings\".\n\n\"Basilikon Doron\" was written as a book of instruction for four-year-old Prince Henry and provides a more practical guide to kingship. The work is considered to be well written and perhaps the best example of James's prose. James's advice concerning parliaments, which he understood as merely the king's \"head court\", foreshadows his difficulties with the English Commons: \"Hold no Parliaments,\" he tells Henry, \"but for the necesitie of new Lawes, which would be but seldome\". In the \"True Law\", James maintains that the king owns his realm as a feudal lord owns his fief, because kings arose \"before any estates or ranks of men, before any parliaments were holden, or laws made, and by them was the land distributed, which at first was wholly theirs. And so it follows of necessity that kings were the authors and makers of the laws, and not the laws of the kings.\"\n\nIn the 1580s and 1590s, James promoted the literature of his native country. He published his treatise \"Some Rules and Cautions to be Observed and Eschewed in Scottish Prosody\" in 1584 at the age of 18. It was both a poetic manual and a description of the poetic tradition in his mother tongue of Scots, applying Renaissance principles. He also made statutory provision to reform and promote the teaching of music, seeing the two in connection. One act of his reign urges the Scottish burghs to reform and support the teaching of music in \"Sang Sculis\".\n\nIn furtherance of these aims, he was both patron and head of a loose circle of Scottish Jacobean court poets and musicians known as the Castalian Band, which included William Fowler and Alexander Montgomerie among others, Montgomerie being a favourite of the King. James was himself a poet, and was happy to be seen as a practising member of the group.\n\nBy the late 1590s, his championing of native Scottish tradition was reduced to some extent by the increasing likelihood of his succession to the English throne. William Alexander and other courtier poets started to anglicise their written language, and followed the king to London after 1603. James's role as active literary participant and patron made him a defining figure in many respects for English Renaissance poetry and drama, which reached a pinnacle of achievement in his reign, but his patronage of the high style in the Scottish tradition, which included his ancestor James I of Scotland, became largely sidelined.\n\nElizabeth I was the last of Henry VIII's descendants, and James was seen as her most likely heir through his great-grandmother Margaret Tudor, who was Henry VIII's oldest sister. From 1601, in the last years of Elizabeth's life, certain English politicians—notably her chief minister Sir Robert Cecil—maintained a secret correspondence with James to prepare in advance for a smooth succession. With the Queen clearly dying, Cecil sent James a draft proclamation of his accession to the English throne in March 1603. Elizabeth died in the early hours of 24 March, and James was proclaimed king in London later the same day.\n\nOn 5 April, James left Edinburgh for London, promising to return every three years (a promise that he did not keep), and progressed slowly southwards. Local lords received him with lavish hospitality along the route and James was amazed by the wealth of his new land and subjects, claiming that he was \"swapping a stony couch for a deep feather bed\". At Cecil's house, Theobalds in Hertfordshire, James was so in awe that he bought it there and then, arriving in the capital on 7 May, nine days after Elizabeth's funeral. His new subjects flocked to see him, relieved that the succession had triggered neither unrest nor invasion. On arrival at London, he was mobbed by a crowd of spectators.\n\nHis English coronation took place on 25 July, with elaborate allegories provided by dramatic poets such as Thomas Dekker and Ben Jonson. An outbreak of plague restricted festivities, but \"the streets seemed paved with men,\" wrote Dekker. \"Stalls instead of rich wares were set out with children, open casements filled up with women.\"\n\nThe kingdom to which James succeeded, however, had its problems. Monopolies and taxation had engendered a widespread sense of grievance, and the costs of war in Ireland had become a heavy burden on the government, which had debts of £400,000.\n\nJames survived two conspiracies in the first year of his reign, despite the smoothness of the succession and the warmth of his welcome: the Bye Plot and Main Plot, which led to the arrest of Lord Cobham and Sir Walter Raleigh, among others. Those hoping for a change in government from James were disappointed at first when he kept Elizabeth's Privy Councillors in office, as secretly planned with Cecil, but James soon added long-time supporter Henry Howard and his nephew Thomas Howard to the Privy Council, as well as five Scottish nobles.\n\nIn the early years of James's reign, the day-to-day running of the government was tightly managed by the shrewd Cecil, later Earl of Salisbury, ably assisted by the experienced Thomas Egerton, whom James made Baron Ellesmere and Lord Chancellor, and by Thomas Sackville, soon Earl of Dorset, who continued as Lord Treasurer. As a consequence, James was free to concentrate on bigger issues, such as a scheme for a closer union between England and Scotland and matters of foreign policy, as well as to enjoy his leisure pursuits, particularly hunting.\n\nJames was ambitious to build on the personal union of the Crowns of Scotland and England to establish a single country under one monarch, one parliament, and one law, a plan that met opposition in both realms. \"Hath He not made us all in one island,\" James told the English Parliament, \"compassed with one sea and of itself by nature indivisible?\" In April 1604, however, the Commons refused his request to be titled \"King of Great Britain\" on legal grounds. In October 1604, he assumed the title \"King of Great Britain\" instead of \"King of England\" and \"King of Scotland\", though Sir Francis Bacon told him that he could not use the style in \"any legal proceeding, instrument or assurance\" and the title was not used on English statutes. James forced the Parliament of Scotland to use it, and it was used on proclamations, coinage, letters, and treaties in both realms.\n\nJames achieved more success in foreign policy. Never having been at war with Spain, he devoted his efforts to bringing the long Anglo–Spanish War to an end, and a peace treaty was signed between the two countries in August 1604, thanks to skilled diplomacy on the part of Robert Cecil and Henry Howard, now Earl of Northampton, which James celebrated by hosting a great banquet. Freedom of worship for Catholics in England, however, continued to be a major objective of Spanish policy, causing constant dilemmas for James, distrusted abroad for repression of Catholics while at home being encouraged by the Privy Council to show even less tolerance towards them.\n\nA dissident Catholic, Guy Fawkes, was discovered in the cellars of the parliament buildings on the night of 4–5 November 1605, the eve of the state opening of the second session of James's first English Parliament. He was guarding a pile of wood not far from 36 barrels of gunpowder with which Fawkes intended to blow up Parliament House the following day and cause the destruction, as James put it, \"not only ... of my person, nor of my wife and posterity also, but of the whole body of the State in general\". The sensational discovery of the Gunpowder Plot, as it quickly became known, aroused a mood of national relief at the delivery of the king and his sons. Salisbury exploited this to extract higher subsidies from the ensuing Parliament than any but one granted to Elizabeth. Fawkes and others implicated in the unsuccessful conspiracy were executed.\n\nThe co-operation between monarch and Parliament following the Gunpowder Plot was atypical. Instead, it was the previous session of 1604 that shaped the attitudes of both sides for the rest of the reign, though the initial difficulties owed more to mutual incomprehension than conscious enmity. On 7 July 1604, James had angrily prorogued Parliament after failing to win its support either for full union or financial subsidies. \"I will not thank where I feel no thanks due\", he had remarked in his closing speech. \"... I am not of such a stock as to praise fools ... You see how many things you did not well ... I wish you would make use of your liberty with more modesty in time to come\".\n\nAs James's reign progressed, his government faced growing financial pressures, due partly to creeping inflation but also to the profligacy and financial incompetence of James's court. In February 1610, Salisbury proposed a scheme, known as the Great Contract, whereby Parliament, in return for ten royal concessions, would grant a lump sum of £600,000 to pay off the king's debts plus an annual grant of £200,000. The ensuing prickly negotiations became so protracted that James eventually lost patience and dismissed Parliament on 31 December 1610. \"Your greatest error\", he told Salisbury, \"hath been that ye ever expected to draw honey out of gall\". The same pattern was repeated with the so-called \"Addled Parliament\" of 1614, which James dissolved after a mere nine weeks when the Commons hesitated to grant him the money he required. James then ruled without parliament until 1621, employing officials such as the merchant Lionel Cranfield, who were astute at raising and saving money for the crown, and sold baronetcies and other dignities, many created for the purpose, as an alternative source of income.\n\nAnother potential source of income was the prospect of a Spanish dowry from a marriage between Charles, Prince of Wales, and Infanta Maria Anna of Spain. The policy of the Spanish match, as it was called, was also attractive to James as a way to maintain peace with Spain and avoid the additional costs of a war. Peace could be maintained as effectively by keeping the negotiations alive as by consummating the match—which may explain why James protracted the negotiations for almost a decade.\n\nThe policy was supported by the Howards and other Catholic-leaning ministers and diplomats—together known as the Spanish Party—but deeply distrusted in Protestant England. When Sir Walter Raleigh was released from imprisonment in 1616, he embarked on a hunt for gold in South America with strict instructions from James not to engage the Spanish. Raleigh's expedition was a disastrous failure, and his son Walter was killed fighting the Spanish. On Raleigh's return to England, James had him executed to the indignation of the public, who opposed the appeasement of Spain. James's policy was further jeopardised by the outbreak of the Thirty Years' War, especially after his Protestant son-in-law, Frederick V, Elector Palatine, was ousted from Bohemia by the Catholic Emperor Ferdinand II in 1620, and Spanish troops simultaneously invaded Frederick's Rhineland home territory. Matters came to a head when James finally called a Parliament in 1621 to fund a military expedition in support of his son-in-law. The Commons on the one hand granted subsidies inadequate to finance serious military operations in aid of Frederick, and on the other—remembering the profits gained under Elizabeth by naval attacks on Spanish gold shipments—called for a war directly against Spain. In November 1621, roused by Sir Edward Coke, they framed a petition asking not only for war with Spain but also for Prince Charles to marry a Protestant, and for enforcement of the anti-Catholic laws. James flatly told them not to interfere in matters of royal prerogative or they would risk punishment, which provoked them into issuing a statement protesting their rights, including freedom of speech. Urged on by the Duke of Buckingham and the Spanish ambassador Gondomar, James ripped the protest out of the record book and dissolved Parliament.\n\nIn early 1623, Prince Charles, now 22, and Buckingham decided to seize the initiative and travel to Spain incognito, to win the infanta directly, but the mission proved an ineffectual mistake. The infanta detested Charles, and the Spanish confronted them with terms that included the repeal of anti-Catholic legislation by Parliament. Though a treaty was signed, the prince and duke returned to England in October without the infanta and immediately renounced the treaty, much to the delight of the British people. Disillusioned by the visit to Spain, Charles and Buckingham now turned James's Spanish policy upon its head and called for a French match and a war against the Habsburg empire. To raise the necessary finance, they prevailed upon James to call another Parliament, which met in February 1624. For once, the outpouring of anti-Catholic sentiment in the Commons was echoed in court, where control of policy was shifting from James to Charles and Buckingham, who pressured the king to declare war and engineered the impeachment of Lord Treasurer Lionel Cranfield, by now made Earl of Middlesex, when he opposed the plan on grounds of cost. The outcome of the Parliament of 1624 was ambiguous: James still refused to declare or fund a war, but Charles believed the Commons had committed themselves to finance a war against Spain, a stance that was to contribute to his problems with Parliament in his own reign.\n\nAfter the Gunpowder Plot, James sanctioned harsh measures to control non-conforming English Catholics. In May 1606, Parliament passed the Popish Recusants Act, which could require any citizen to take an Oath of Allegiance denying the Pope's authority over the king. James was conciliatory towards Catholics who took the Oath of Allegiance, and tolerated crypto-Catholicism even at court. Henry Howard, for example, was a crypto-Catholic, received back into the Catholic Church in his final months. On ascending the English throne, James suspected that he might need the support of Catholics in England, so he assured the Earl of Northumberland, a prominent sympathiser of the old religion, that he would not persecute \"any that will be quiet and give but an outward obedience to the law\".\n\nIn the Millenary Petition of 1603, the Puritan clergy demanded the abolition of confirmation, wedding rings, and the term \"priest\", among other things, and that the wearing of cap and surplice become optional. James was strict in enforcing conformity at first, inducing a sense of persecution amongst many Puritans; but ejections and suspensions from livings became rarer as the reign continued. As a result of the Hampton Court Conference of 1604, a new translation and compilation of approved books of the Bible was commissioned to resolve discrepancies among different translations then being used. The Authorized King James Version, as it came to be known, was completed in 1611 and is considered a masterpiece of Jacobean prose. It is still in widespread use.\n\nIn Scotland, James attempted to bring the Scottish Kirk \"so neir as can be\" to the English church and to reestablish episcopacy, a policy that met with strong opposition from presbyterians. James returned to Scotland in 1617 for the only time after his accession in England, in the hope of implementing Anglican ritual. James's bishops forced his Five Articles of Perth through a General Assembly the following year, but the rulings were widely resisted. James left the church in Scotland divided at his death, a source of future problems for his son.\n\nJames's sexuality is a matter of dispute. Throughout his life James had close relationships with male courtiers, which has caused debate among historians about their exact nature. In Scotland Anne Murray was known as the king's mistress. After his accession in England, his peaceful and scholarly attitude contrasted strikingly with the bellicose and flirtatious behaviour of Elizabeth, as indicated by the contemporary epigram (Elizabeth was King, now James is Queen).\n\nSome of James's biographers conclude that Esmé Stewart (later Duke of Lennox), Robert Carr (later Earl of Somerset), and George Villiers (later Duke of Buckingham) were his lovers. Sir John Oglander observed that he \"never yet saw any fond husband make so much or so great dalliance over his beautiful spouse as I have seen King James over his favourites, especially the Duke of Buckingham\" whom the King would, recalled Sir Edward Peyton, \"tumble and kiss as a mistress.\" Restoration of Apethorpe Palace undertaken in 2004–08 revealed a previously unknown passage linking the bedchambers of James and Villiers.\n\nSome biographers of James argue that the relationships were not sexual. James's \"Basilikon Doron\" lists sodomy among crimes \"ye are bound in conscience never to forgive\", and James's wife Anne gave birth to seven live children, as well as suffering two stillbirths and at least three other miscarriages. Contemporary Huguenot poet Théophile de Viau observed that \"it is well known that the king of England / has union with the Duke of Buckingham\". Buckingham himself provides evidence that he slept in the same bed as the King, writing to James many years later that he had pondered \"whether you loved me now ... better than at the time which I shall never forget at Farnham, where the bed's head could not be found between the master and his dog\". Buckingham's words may be interpreted as non-sexual, in the context of seventeenth-century court life, and remain ambiguous.\n\nWhen the Earl of Salisbury died in 1612, he was little mourned by those who jostled to fill the power vacuum. Until Salisbury's death, the Elizabethan administrative system over which he had presided continued to function with relative efficiency; from this time forward, however, James's government entered a period of decline and disrepute. Salisbury's passing gave James the notion of governing in person as his own chief Minister of State, with his young Scottish favourite Robert Carr carrying out many of Salisbury's former duties, but James's inability to attend closely to official business exposed the government to factionalism.\n\nThe Howard party, consisting of Northampton, Suffolk, Suffolk's son-in-law Lord Knollys, and Charles Howard, Earl of Nottingham, along with Sir Thomas Lake, soon took control of much of the government and its patronage. Even the powerful Carr fell into the Howard camp, hardly experienced for the responsibilities thrust upon him and often dependent on his intimate friend Sir Thomas Overbury for assistance with government papers. Carr had an adulterous affair with Frances Howard, Countess of Essex, daughter of the Earl of Suffolk, whom James assisted in securing an annulment of her marriage to free her to marry Carr.\n\nIn summer 1615, however, it emerged that Overbury had been poisoned. He had died on 15 September 1613 in the Tower of London, where he had been placed at the King's request. Among those convicted of the murder were Frances and Robert Carr, the latter having been replaced as the king's favourite in the meantime by Villiers. James pardoned Frances and commuted Carr's sentence of death, eventually pardoning him in 1624. The implication of the King in such a scandal provoked much public and literary conjecture and irreparably tarnished James's court with an image of corruption and depravity. The subsequent downfall of the Howards left Villiers unchallenged as the supreme figure in the government by 1619.\n\nAfter about the age of fifty, James suffered increasingly from arthritis, gout and kidney stones. He also lost his teeth and drank heavily. The King was often seriously ill during the last year of his life, leaving him an increasingly peripheral figure, rarely able to visit London, while Buckingham consolidated his control of Charles to ensure his own future. One theory is that James may have suffered from porphyria, a disease of which his descendant George III of the United Kingdom exhibited some symptoms. James described his urine to physician Théodore de Mayerne as being the \"dark red colour of Alicante wine\". The theory is dismissed by some experts, particularly in James's case, because he had kidney stones which can lead to blood in the urine, colouring it red.\n\nIn early 1625, James was plagued by severe attacks of arthritis, gout, and fainting fits, and fell seriously ill in March with tertian ague and then suffered a stroke. He died at Theobalds House on 27 March during a violent attack of dysentery, with Buckingham at his bedside. James's funeral on 7 May was a magnificent but disorderly affair. Bishop John Williams of Lincoln preached the sermon, observing, \"King Solomon died in Peace, when he had lived about sixty years ... and so you know did King James\". The sermon was later printed as \"Great Britain's Salomon\" .\n\nJames was buried in Westminster Abbey. The position of the tomb was lost for many years until his lead coffin was found in the Henry VII vault in the 19th century, during an excavation.\n\nJames was widely mourned. For all his flaws, he had largely retained the affection of his people, who had enjoyed uninterrupted peace and comparatively low taxation during the Jacobean era. \"As he lived in peace,\" remarked the Earl of Kellie, \"so did he die in peace, and I pray God our king [Charles I] may follow him\". The earl prayed in vain: once in power, Charles and Buckingham sanctioned a series of reckless military expeditions that ended in humiliating failure. James had often neglected the business of government for leisure pastimes, such as the hunt; and his later dependence on favourites at a scandal-ridden court undermined the respected image of monarchy so carefully constructed by Elizabeth.\n\nUnder James the Plantation of Ulster by English and Scots Protestants began, and the English colonisation of North America started its course with the foundation of Jamestown, Virginia, in 1607, and Cuper's Cove, Newfoundland, in 1610. During the next 150 years, England would fight with Spain, the Netherlands, and France for control of the continent, while religious division in Ireland between Protestant and Catholic has lasted for 400 years. By actively pursuing more than just a personal union of his realms, he helped lay the foundations for a unitary British state.\n\nAccording to a tradition originating with anti-Stuart historians of the mid-17th-century, James's taste for political absolutism, his financial irresponsibility, and his cultivation of unpopular favourites established the foundations of the English Civil War. James bequeathed Charles a fatal belief in the divine right of kings, combined with a disdain for Parliament, which culminated in the execution of Charles and the abolition of the monarchy. Over the last three hundred years, the king's reputation has suffered from the acid description of him by Sir Anthony Weldon, whom James had sacked and who wrote treatises on James in the 1650s.\n\nOther influential anti-James histories written during the 1650s include: Sir Edward Peyton's \"Divine Catastrophe of the Kingly Family of the House of Stuarts\" (1652); Arthur Wilson's \"History of Great Britain, Being the Life and Reign of King James I\" (1658); and Francis Osborne's \"Historical Memoirs of the Reigns of Queen Elizabeth and King James\" (1658). David Harris Willson's 1956 biography continued much of this hostility. In the words of historian Jenny Wormald, Willson's book was an \"astonishing spectacle of a work whose every page proclaimed its author's increasing hatred for his subject\". Since Willson, however, the stability of James's government in Scotland and in the early part of his English reign, as well as his relatively enlightened views on religion and war, have earned him a re-evaluation from many historians, who have rescued his reputation from this tradition of criticism.\n\nRepresentative of the new historical perspective is the 2003 biography by Pauline Croft. Reviewer John Cramsie summarises her findings:Croft's overall assessment of James is appropriately mixed. She recognises his good intentions in matters like Anglo-Scottish union, his openness to different points of view, and his agenda of a peaceful foreign policy within his kingdoms' financial means. His actions moderated frictions between his diverse peoples. Yet he also created new ones, particularly by supporting colonisation that polarised the crown's interest groups in Ireland, obtaining insufficient political benefit with his open-handed patronage, an unfortunate lack of attention to the image of monarchy (particularly after the image-obsessed regime of Elizabeth), pursuing a pro-Spanish foreign policy that fired religious prejudice and opened the door for Arminians within the English church, and enforcing unpalatable religious changes on the Scottish Kirk. Many of these criticisms are framed within a longer view of James' reigns, including the legacy – now understood to be more troubled – which he left Charles I.\n\nIn Scotland, James was \"James the sixth, King of Scotland\", until 1604. He was proclaimed \"James the first, King of England, France, and Ireland, defender of the faith\" in London on 24 March 1603. On 20 October 1604, James issued a proclamation at Westminster changing his style to \"King of Great Brittaine, France and Ireland, Defender of the Faith, &c.\" The style was not used on English statutes, but was used on proclamations, coinage, letters, treaties, and in Scotland. James styled himself \"King of France\", in line with other monarchs of England between 1340 and 1800, although he did not actually rule France.\n\nAs King of Scots, James bore the ancient royal arms of Scotland: Or, a lion rampant Gules armed and langued Azure within a double tressure flory counter-flory Gules. The arms were supported by two unicorns Argent armed, crined and unguled Proper, gorged with a coronet Or composed of crosses patée and fleurs de lys a chain affixed thereto passing between the forelegs and reflexed over the back also Or. The crest was a lion sejant affrontée Gules, imperially crowned Or, holding in the dexter paw a sword and in the sinister paw a sceptre both erect and Proper.\n\nThe Union of the Crowns of England and Scotland under James was symbolised heraldically by combining their arms, supporters and badges. Contention as to how the arms should be marshalled, and to which kingdom should take precedence, was solved by having different arms for each country.\n\nThe arms used in England were: Quarterly, I and IV, quarterly 1st and 4th Azure three fleurs de lys Or (for France), 2nd and 3rd Gules three lions passant guardant in pale Or (for England); II Or a lion rampant within a tressure flory-counter-flory Gules (for Scotland); III Azure a harp Or stringed Argent (for Ireland, this was the first time that Ireland was included in the royal arms). The supporters became: dexter a lion rampant guardant Or imperially crowned and sinister the Scottish unicorn. The unicorn replaced the red dragon of Cadwaladr, which was introduced by the Tudors. The unicorn has remained in the royal arms of the two united realms. The English crest and motto was retained. The compartment often contained a branch of the Tudor rose, with shamrock and thistle engrafted on the same stem. The arms were frequently shown with James's personal motto, \"Beati pacifici\".\n\nThe arms used in Scotland were: Quarterly, I and IV Scotland, II England and France, III Ireland, with Scotland taking precedence over England. The supporters were: dexter a unicorn of Scotland imperially crowned, supporting a tilting lance flying a banner Azure a saltire Argent (Cross of Saint Andrew) and sinister the crowned lion of England supporting a similar lance flying a banner Argent a cross Gules (Cross of Saint George). The Scottish crest and motto was retained, following the Scottish practice the motto \"In defens\" (which is short for \"In My Defens God Me Defend\") was placed above the crest.\n\nAs royal badges James used: the Tudor rose, the thistle (for Scotland; first used by James III of Scotland), the Tudor rose dimidiated with the thistle ensigned with the royal crown, a harp (for Ireland) and a fleur de lys (for France).\n\nJames's queen, Anne of Denmark, gave birth to seven children who survived beyond birth, of whom three reached adulthood:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15968", "title": "July 29", "text": "July 29\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3744413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3744413", "title": "Kanamara Matsuri", "text": "Kanamara Matsuri\n\nThe Shinto is held each spring at the in Kawasaki, Japan. The exact dates vary: the main festivities fall on the first Sunday in April. The phallus, as the central theme of the event, is reflected in illustrations, candy, carved vegetables, decorations, and a mikoshi parade.\n\nThe Kanamara Matsuri is centered on a local penis-venerating shrine. The legend being that a jealous sharp-toothed demon hid inside the vagina of a young woman the demon fell in love with and bit off penises of two young men on their wedding nights. After that the woman sought help from a blacksmith, who fashioned an iron phallus to break the demon's teeth, which led to the enshrinement of the item. This legend in Ainu language was published as \"The Island of Women\" by Basil Hall Chamberlain\n\nThe Kanayama Shrine was popular among prostitutes who wished to pray for protection from sexually transmitted infections.\n\nIt is also said the shrine offers divine protections for business prosperity, and for the clan's prosperity; and for easy delivery, marriage, and married-couple harmony.\n\nThe festival started in 1969. Today, the festival has become something of a tourist attraction and is used to raise money for HIV research.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37625714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37625714", "title": "List of CMLL tag team tournaments", "text": "List of CMLL tag team tournaments\n\nThe Mexican professional wrestling promotion Consejo Mundial de Lucha Libre (CMLL) has held a number of tournaments tag team or their \"Trios\" (three man teams) divisions over the years. Some of the tournaments were recurring, but have not been held in the last two to three years and others were one-off tournament held for a special event. Being professional wrestling tournaments, they are not won legitimately through competitive matches; instead they are won via predetermined outcomes to the matches that is generally kept secret from the general public.\n\nCMLL held three tournaments under the name \"Copa de Arena Mexico\", named after their main venue Arena Mexico, where all the tournaments also took place. The tournament was held in 1999, 2001 and 2002.\n\nThe first \"Copa de Arena Mexico\" tournament was a one night, four team single-elimination tournament was held on December 10, 1999 and was also called \"Torneo Siglo XXI\" (\"21st Century Tournament\"). The tournament was won by \"\"Los Guerreros del Infierno\" (El Satánico, Rey Bucanero and Último Guerrero), a team name that Bucanero and Guerrero would later use when they split from El Satánico to form their own faction. The winners were given a trophy but no other tangible award was given as a result of the victory. The tournament included four teams who all teamed on a regular basis both before and after the tournament.\n\n\nThe second \"Copa de Arena Mexico\" tournament was once again a one night single-elimination tournament, this time with eight teams instead of four. The tournament was held on December 28, 2001 and was won by \"Team Shocker\" (Black Warrior, Shocker, and Apolo Dantés). The winners were given a trophy but no other tangible award was given as a result of the victory. Some of the teams in the tournament worked together on a regular basis, others were created for the tournament.\n\n\nThe third and last \"Copa de Arena Mexico\" tournament was a one night eight team single-elimination tournament, held on July 5, 2002 and was won by \"Team Tall\" (Black Warrior, Lizmark Jr., and Rayo de Jalisco Jr.). The win made Black Warrior the only wrestler to win the tournament more than once. The winners were given a trophy but no other tangible award was given as a result of the victory. Some of the teams in the tournament worked together on a regular basis, others were created for the tournament. Team Giant only consisted of two members, Giant Silva and Mr. Niebla, due to the size of Giant Silva CMLL counted him as two wrestlers for this tournament and most of the matches he participated in.\n\n\nOn October 26, 1993 Consejo Mundial de Lucha Libre (CMLL) wrestler Oro died as a direct result of a match at Arena Coliseo. The following year, on September 25, 1994 CMLL held a tag team tournament in Arena Coliseo to commemorate the loss of the popular wrestler and honor his memory. The tournament winners were presented with a trophy by Oro II, the original Oro's brother who had taken the name out of respect. The tournament was an eight-team single elimination tournament won by Apolo Dantés and El Dandy.\n\n\nOn October 26, 1993 Consejo Mundial de Lucha Libre (CMLL) wrestler Oro died as a direct result of a match at Arena Coliseo. CMLL held \"Copa de Oro\" one year later in 1994 and followed it with a second \"Copa de Oro\" in 1995 on October 24. The tournament winners were presented with a trophy by Oro II, the original Oro's brother who had taken the name out of respect. The tournament was an eight-team single elimination tournament won by Chicago Express and Pierroth Jr.\n\n\nWrestling is a family tradition in Lucha libre, with a large number of second or even third generation wrestlers following in the footsteps of their relatives. Consejo Mundial de Lucha Libre (CMLL) held a tag team tournament on September 1, 1995 to pay homage to the wrestling families by holding a tournament for second or third generation wrestlers. In a few cases the family relationship was not a blood relationship, but more of a storyline with the \"Junior\" wrestler either paying to use the name or being given the name by the \"Senior\". The winners got a trophy and no other tangible reward. The second generation concept led to CMLL creating the \"La Copa Junior\" tournament in early 1996. The CMLL Second Generation Tag Team Tournament was won by the team of Apolo Dantés and Emilio Charles Jr.\n\n\nIn 1995 Consejo Mundial de Lucha Libre (CMLL) held a one-night single elimination Trios tournament dedicated to the memory of Salvador Lutteroth, the founder of CMLL. The tournament filled the entire Friday night \"CMLL Super Viernes\" show, preceding the 1996 \"Homenaje a Salvador Lutteroth\" show becoming the unofficial forerunner for the event that is now known as \"Homenaje a Dos Leyendas\" (\"Homage to two Legends\") that CMLL holds every spring. The tournament was won by the team of Bestia Salvaje, Emilio Charles Jr. and Sangre Chicana, who received a trophy, but no other obvious awards for winning the tournament.\n\n\nIn 1999 Consejo Mundial de Lucha Libre (CMLL) held a one night, single elimination tournament on their annual \"\" show, which took place on March 20, 1999. The tournament was dedicated to the memory of Salvador Lutteroth, the founder of CMLL and followed both a singles tournament to honor Lutteroth the preceding year at the 1998 \"Homenaje a Salvador Lutteroth\" show and a Trios tournament. The tournament featured 8 teams in total, four teams of wrestlers whose careers peaked in the 1980s and early 1990s and four teams who were looking to make a name for themselves at the time. The last match saw the veterans Ringo Mendoza and Super Astro defeat the team of Mr. Niebla and Shocker to win the tournament and the trophy.\n\n\nIn 2009 Consejo Mundial de Lucha Libre (CMLL) held a tag team tournament for wrestlers who work in CMLL's Guadalajara, Jalisco Arena Coliseo and its associated wrestling training school. The tournament was named after Guadalajara native and wrestling pioneer \"Tanque\" (Tank) Alfonso Dantés. The teams were paired up specifically for the tournament and did not work together on a regular basis prior to it. The teams all competed in a round robin league format, earning points for victories (two) or draws (one). The tournament started on February 15, 2009 and ran until April 12 of that year, spanning five shows in Arena Coliseo. During the tournament wrestler Boomerang had to be replaced with Meteoro for one match and Mr. Trueno replaced Rey Trueno after just one match. The team of Palacio Negro and Samurai won the tournament with four victories, 1 loss and a total of 8 points.\n\nTeams and final standings\n\nDays after completing the 2013 \"Torneo Nacional de Parejas Increibles\" that concluded at the 2013 \"Homenaje a Dos Leyendas\", CMLL held a similar tournament in Arena Puebla, in Puebla, Puebla. The tournament consisted of two qualifying blocks that took place on March 18 and 25, with a final on April 1, 2013. The tournament is based on the Lucha Libre \"Parejas Increibles\" match type where two wrestlers of opposite allegiance, portraying either villains, referred to as \"\"Rudos\" in Lucha Libre wrestling terminology or fan favorites, or \"Technicos\"\". At times some of the team members were part of a pre-existing scripted feuds or storylines with each other. The tournament was won by Atlantis and Volador Jr. as they defeated Shocker and Rey Bucanero in the finals after the team failed to get along.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51613541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51613541", "title": "List of entertainment events at Perth Arena", "text": "List of entertainment events at Perth Arena\n\nRAC Arena is the busiest venue in Western Australia, with many local, regional and international artists having staged their performance at the arena. All events are arranged in an chronological order below while non-concert entertainment events are also included.\n\n<div style=\"overflow:scroll;height:200px;\">\n"}
{"id": "45495400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45495400", "title": "List of plays and musicals about the American Revolution", "text": "List of plays and musicals about the American Revolution\n\nThis is a list of plays and musicals about the American Revolution.\n\n"}
{"id": "12132535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12132535", "title": "Live Earth concert, New Jersey", "text": "Live Earth concert, New Jersey\n\nThe Live Earth concert for North America was held at Giants Stadium, East Rutherford, New Jersey, United States (near New York City) on July 7, 2007.\n\nAll times EDT\n\n\nLater in 2007, an EP containing the audio tracks of John Mayer's performances at the Giants Stadium was released exclusively on iTunes.\n\nIn the U.S., NBC Universal's networks had exclusive television rights. The Giants Stadium show had a primetime slot on NBC.\nIn Canada, CTVglobemedia also had exclusive television rights to this event. The New Jersey concert aired live and uninterrupted on Much Music and highlights appeared on CTV throughout the day.\n\nLive Earth was carried on all major satellite radio carriers in the US such as XM Satellite Radio and Sirius Satellite Radio.\n\nLive Earth was broadcast live on liveearth.msn.com, where the entire concert could be seen on-demand until several months after the concerts.\n"}
{"id": "49074435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49074435", "title": "Mass sexual assault in Egypt", "text": "Mass sexual assault in Egypt\n\nThe mass sexual assault of women in public by Arab men has been documented in Egypt since 2005. In May 2005 Egyptian security forces and their agents were blamed for using it during political demonstrations in Tahrir Square, Cairo, as a weapon against female protesters. The behavior spread, and by 2012 sexual assault by crowds of young men was regularly seen at protests and religious festivals in Egypt.\n\nIn these assaults, assailants would encircle a woman while outer rings of men deter rescuers. The attackers regularly pretended to be there to help the women, adding to the confusion. Women reported being groped, stripped, beaten, bitten, penetrated with fingers, and raped. The attacks were described as the \"circle of hell.\"\n\nCommentators say the attacks reflect an Islamic misogynist ideology that penalizes women for leaving the house, seeks to terrorize them out of public life, and views sexual violence as a source of shame for the victim, not the attacker.\n\nSexual harassment was barely discussed in Egypt before 2006. The Egyptian Center for Women's Rights sought to draw attention to it, but the public's response was that it was an American idea wrongly applied to Egyptian society.\n\nMass sexual assault was first documented during the Egyptian constitutional referendum on 25 May 2005, on what became known as \"Black Wednesday,\" when women demonstrators were sexually assaulted by a group of agents provocateurs, groups of men who had arrived on buses, as police watched and did nothing to intervene.\n\nThe issue attracted more discussion following the Eid al-Fitr holiday in 2006, when on 24 October a crowd of young men who had been denied entry to a cinema in Cairo engaged in a five-hour-long mass sexual assault of women in Talaat Harb Street. Police were reported to have done nothing to stop it, although many bystanders tried to help the women.\n\nThe attacks gained prominence outside Egypt in February 2011 when Lara Logan, a correspondent for the American network CBS, was sexually assaulted by hundreds of men in Tahrir Square, Cairo, while reporting on the 2011 Egyptian Revolution. By 2012, according to \"Al Akhbar\", such attacks had become a \"prominent feature\" of religious festivals in Egypt.\n\nAmnesty International described a series of attacks that took place on January 25, 2013 against protesters in the vicinity of Tahrir Square. The victims of these attacks said they typically lasted from a few minutes to over an hour, and that the men were usually in their 20s and 30s. Victims were aged seven to 70.\n\nDescribing the Tahrir Square attacks, women said they were often separated from friends by the crowd, or out alone, and encircled by a large group of men who groped their breasts, genitals and buttocks. Attempts were made to pull or cut their clothes off, and their bodies were pulled in different directions as men move her through the crowd. Women regularly report digital penetration of the vagina and anus. Attackers have used sticks, knives and blades, and in several cases sharp objects have been inserted into the victim's vagina.\n\nOne student protester described how a group of men formed a ring around her in Tahrir Square on 25 January 2013:\nThe last thing I heard was \"don't worry,\" followed by screaming ... At first they tried to rip my bag out of my hands; I then felt hands all over my body, tearing down my trousers and long jacket; they were undoing its clips. ... They pulled my trousers and pants down, but couldn’t get them all the way down because I was wearing boots that they couldn’t manage to get off ... I felt hands touch me from all directions, and I was moved, almost carried, inside the circle as people continued saying: \"don’t worry.\" They were saying that while violating me ...\n\nPerpetrators regularly claim to be helping the women when in fact they are attacking them, which increases the difficulty for rescuers and leaves the women not knowing who to trust. Women testify to having heard attackers say: \"Do not be afraid; I'm protecting you,\" or \"you are like my sister, do not be afraid.\" People genuinely trying to help find themselves being beaten and sexually assaulted too.\n\nVolunteer groups in Cairo, including OpAntiSH (Operation Anti Sexual Harassment), organize \"extraction teams\" who push into the circles wearing padded clothing, helmets and gloves, and get the women out. Other OpAntiSH teams carry spare clothes and medical supplies, operate a hotline so that the extraction teams know where to go, and offer counselling and legal and medical help. They were called to 19 incidents on 25 January 2013 alone, and were able to respond to 15 of them.\n\nRescuers have described how assailants have set up makeshift tea stands in the crowd; in one case boiling water from a tea stand was thrown over rescuers who had formed a protective ring around a woman. During an attack in Cairo in 2013, the attackers allowed an ambulance to reach the woman only when the driver told them she was dead.\n\nMariz Tadros of the Institute of Development Studies notes that \"social\" - that is, non-politically-motivated - sexual assault in Egypt is a result of diverse motives, including pleasure, a desire to dominate women, and a \"perceived sense of sexual deprivation\" because marriage may be financially prohibitive. Journalist Shereen El Feki, author of \"Sex and the Citadel\" (2013), writing about sexual harassment in general (\"taharrush jinsi\"), blamed unemployment, social media and a \"breakdown of family surveillance\" because of overworked parents.\n\nIn one survey 60 percent of the highest educated women in Egypt blamed the victims (of general sexual harassment) and \"provocative\" clothing, as did 75 percent of the least educated women.\n\nIn a 2013 UN survey, 75.7% of women who had been sexually harassed said it occurred while they were wearing conservative clothing without makeup. When asked about causes, female respondents cited \"foreign pornographic programs\" (97.2%), \"non-enforcement of the religious principles\" (95.5%) and \"non-compliance of girls with religious values with regard to appearance\" (94.3%). Male respondents cited \"wearing tight clothes\" (96.3%) and that the women \"do not conform to religious ethics with regard to their appearance\" (97.5%).\n\nNehad Abu Komsan, head of the Egyptian Center for Women's Rights, argues that sexual harassment is a symptom of the country's political and economic oppression, and that men are \"lashing out at those next down the line in the patriarchy.\" Hussein el Shafie of OpAntiSH has argued that the attacks are like a \"tear-gas bomb\" to get women off the streets – not sexual but stemming from a sense of entitlement. According to a 2013 paper by Nazra for Feminist Studies:\n[A] general attitude of sexual entitlement prevails, that is, a belief that the bodies of women present in the context of demonstrations are safe territories for sexual attacks underlies nearly all testimonies. With testimonies that speak of hundreds of hands persistently raping women, with hundreds more watching the brutal attacks, some while even smiling, it becomes clear that we are faced with an overwhelming challenge, namely a state and a society that have internalized sexual violence against women as the law of the land.\n\nAccording to a 2008 survey by the Egyptian Center for Women's Rights, 83% of Egyptian women said they had experienced sexual harassment, as did 98% of women from overseas while in Egypt. A 2013 study in Egypt by UN Women found that 99.3% of female respondents said they had been sexually harassed.\n\nThe first jail sentence in Egypt for sexual harassment came in 2008 after a man molested a woman in the street from his car. Following this, two films – \"Scheherazade, Tell Me a Story\" (Yousry Nasrallah, 2009) and \"678\" (Muhammad Diyab, 2010) – brought the issue of sexual assault to cinemas.\n\nThe mass sexual assaults have been on the increase since the fall of Hosni Mubarak on 11 February 2011, the end of the 2011 revolution, particularly during protests in Tahrir Square and religious festivals.\n\nAccording to Serena Hollmeyer Taylor and other researchers at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, the revolution saw a drop in complaints of harassment. Citing HARASSmap, which offers an interactive mapping service to which harassment can be reported, they write that 82 reports of sexual harassment were received between 7 and 25 January 2011. This is in contrast with the eight received between 25 January, the day of the first protests, and 11 February, when Mubarak stepped down. Taylor et al. call this Egypt's \"liminal moment,\" following the anthropologist Victor Turner's idea that, during political upheaval, people are liberated from their \"cultural script.\" During those 18 days, a protester told them, men put aside their differences with women, and everyone was simply Egyptian.\n\nAfter the fall of Mubarak, there was rapid escalation, beginning with the attacks, on the night he stepped down, on Egyptian journalist Mona Eltahawy and South African journalist Lara Logan. Logan, a correspondent for CBS, was sexually assaulted for 30 minutes by around 200 men in Tahrir Square before being rescued by a group of Egyptian women and soldiers. Several more journalists were among the hundreds of women who experienced mass sexual assault over the following few years: French journalist Caroline Sinz in November 2011; British journalist Natasha Smith in June 2012; Egyptian journalist Hania Moheeb on 25 January 2013, along with 18 other women; and a Dutch journalist in June 2013.\n\nFive hundred cases of mass sexual assault were documented between June 2012 and June 2014. An anti-harassment group, I Saw Harassment, reported four cases on 8 June 2014 alone, during President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi's inaugural celebrations, while Operation Anti-Sexual Harassment reported ten. The \"New York Times\" wrote of the celebrations:\nAt times, the prevalence of sexual violence in the crowds was hard even for the official state television network to hide. Female screams interrupted the broadcast of a nationalistic poet reciting from a stage ... when the screams grew louder, another man seized the microphone, yelling: 'Young men, please move away from the girls! Men, young men, get back!'\"\n\nFrom 2011 onwards, footage of women being assaulted began to appear regularly on social media, including one of a woman in Alexandria in 2011 being dragged along the ground and hoisted onto men's shoulders.\n\nThe Girl in the Blue Bra video (\"Sit al Banat\") in December 2011 showed a woman partially covered by an \"abaya\" being beaten, stomped on and dragged around by the military in Tahrir Square. A man is similarly attacked during the same video. Thousands of women took to the streets to protest.\n\nA video taken on 8 June 2014, also in Tahrir Square, showed a naked woman being sexually assaulted during inaugural celebrations for President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi. A volunteer for I Saw Harassment said hundreds of people were grabbing at the woman and that it took the police 20 minutes to get her out of the crowd. Seven men aged 15–49 were arrested. After the president visited the woman in hospital, the Egyptian government asked YouTube to remove the video; a spokesman said the request had come from the woman. YouTube responded by removing copies in which the victim could be identified.\n\nThe period saw the growth of a counter-movement of NGOs and women's groups. After the particularly high number of assaults on 25 January 2013, women met that night at Café Riche on Talaat Harb Street, near Tahrir Square, and decided to start telling their stories. Journalist and broadcaster Lamis Elhadidy devoted an entire programme to the assaults and apologized for not having covered them sooner.\n\nA first attempt to change the law, supported by Amr Hamzawy, failed. The ruling party maintained that women participating in rallies were personally responsible for such incidents.\n\nIn March 2013 the Muslim Brotherhood opposed the United Nations Declaration on the Elimination of Violence Against Women, arguing that it would lead to the \"disintegration of society.\" The law was changed after a female law student at the Cairo University College of Law was sexually assaulted by a large group of men on campus in March 2014, and had to be escorted to safety by security guards.\n\nThe attacks in Egypt, and the term \"taharrush\" (\"harassment\" in Arabic), came to wider attention in 2016 when women in Europe reported having been sexually assaulted by groups of North African men during New Year's Eve celebrations. German police compared the attacks to the mass sexual assaults in Egypt.\n\nMost of the attacks took place in Cologne, Germany, where 359 women filed sexual-assault complaints. Women also filed complaints in Berlin, Düsseldorf, Frankfurt, Hamburg and Stuttgart; Salzburg, Austria; Helsinki, Finland; Kalmar and Malmö, Sweden; and Zurich, Switzerland. The news coverage prompted a leak to a Swedish newspaper that similar attacks had taken place in Stockholm in 2014 and 2015 during We Are Sthlm, a music festival for teenagers. The attacks were not publicized at the time for fear of stirring up racism.\n\nAccording to a German local government report, the German federal police compared the attacks to \"\"taharrush gamea\" (collective sexual harassment in crowds),\" a practice they said existed in Arab countries, as reported by the media during the Egyptian revolution. The transliteration, \"taharrush gamea\", followed the Egyptian pronunciation, \"taḥarrush gamāʿī\" (with a hard ⟨g⟩), rather than the standard pronunciation, \"taḥarrush jamāʿī\". An article in \"Die Welt\" on 10 January 2016, headlined \"The phenomenon 'taharrush gamea' has arrived in Germany\", made international news.\n\nThe events sparked a debate about sexism, racism and the European migrant crisis. Josef Joffe, editor of \"Die Zeit\", wrote that \"acculturation into the strict sex codes of the West takes years.\" Dan Hitchens argued in the \"Spectator\" that mass sexual assault was a feature of Egypt, rather than of the Arab world, and that linking it to the attacks in Europe was \"over-excited.\" Algerian writer Kamel Daoud linked the attacks in Germany to \"the sexual misery of the Arab world\" in a controversial op-ed of the \"New York Times\" dated 14 February 2016.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "63397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63397", "title": "Mean time between failures", "text": "Mean time between failures\n\nMean time between failures (MTBF) is the predicted elapsed time between inherent failures of a mechanical or electronic system, during normal system operation. MTBF can be calculated as the arithmetic mean (average) time between failures of a system. The term is used for repairable systems, while mean time to failure (MTTF) denotes the expected time to failure for a non-repairable system. \n\nThe definition of MTBF depends on the definition of what is considered a failure. For complex, repairable systems, failures are considered to be those out of design conditions which place the system out of service and into a state for repair. Failures which occur that can be left or maintained in an unrepaired condition, and do not place the system out of service, are not considered failures under this definition. In addition, units that are taken down for routine scheduled maintenance or inventory control are not considered within the definition of failure. The higher the MTBF, the longer a system is likely to work before failing.\n\nMean time between failures (MTBF) describes the expected time between two failures for a repairable system. For example, three identical systems starting to function properly at time 0 are working until all of them fail. The first system failed at 100 hours, the second failed at 120 hours and the third failed at 130 hours. The MTBF of the system is the average of the three failure times, which is 116.667 hours. If the systems are non-repairable, then their MTTF would be 116.667 hours.\n\nIn general, MTBF is the \"up-time\" between two failure states of a repairable system during operation as outlined here:\n\nFor each observation, the \"down time\" is the instantaneous time it went down, which is after (i.e. greater than) the moment it went up, the \"up time\". The difference (\"down time\" minus \"up time\") is the amount of time it was operating between these two events.\n\nBy referring to the figure above, the MTBF of a component is the sum of the lengths of the operational periods divided by the number of observed failures:\n\nIn a similar manner, mean down time (MDT) can be defined as\n\nMTBF is defined by the arithmetic mean value of the reliability function \"R\"(\"t\"), which can be expressed as the expected value of the density function \"ƒ\"(\"t\") of time until failure:\n\nAny practically-relevant calculation of MTBF or probabilistic failure prediction based on MTBF requires that the system is working within its \"useful life period\", which is characterized by a relatively constant failure rate (the middle part of the \"bathtub curve\") when only random failures are occurring.\n\nAssuming a constant failure rate results in a failure density function as follows:\nformula_4, \nwhich, in turn, simplifies the above mentioned calculation of MTBF to the reciprocal of the failure rate of the system\n\nThe units used are typically hours or lifecycles. This critical relationship between a system's MTBF and its failure rate allows a simple conversion/calculation when one of the two quantities is known and an exponential distribution (constant failure rate, i.e., no systematic failures) can be assumed.\n\nOnce the MTBF of a system is known, the probability that any one particular system will be operational at time equal to the MTBF can be estimated.\nUnder the assumption of a constant failure rate, any one particular system will survive to its calculated MTBF with a probability of 36.8% (i.e., it will fail before with a probability of 63.2%). The same applies to the MTTF of a system working within this time period.\n\nThe MTBF value can be used as a system reliability parameter or to compare different systems or designs. This value should only be understood conditionally as the “mean lifetime” (an average value), and not as a quantitative identity between working and failed units.\n\nSince MTBF can be expressed as “average life (expectancy)”, many engineers assume that 50% of items will have failed by time \"t\" = MTBF. This inaccuracy can lead to bad design decisions. Furthermore, probabilistic failure prediction based on MTBF implies the total absence of systematic failures (i.e., a constant failure rate with only intrinsic, random failures), which is not easy to verify. Assuming no systematic errors, the probability of failure during a duration, T, is calculated as exp^(-T/MTBF). \n\nMTBF value prediction is an important element in the development of products. Reliability engineers and design engineers often use reliability software to calculate a product's MTBF according to various methods and standards (MIL-HDBK-217F, Telcordia SR332, Siemens Norm, FIDES,UTE 80-810 (RDF2000), etc.). The Mil-HDBK-217 reliability calculator manual in combination with RelCalc software (or other comparable tool) enables MTBF reliability rates to be predicted based on design.\n\nA concept which is closely related to MTBF, and is important in the computations involving MTBF, is the mean down time (MDT). MDT can be defined as mean time which the system is down after the failure. Usually, MDT is considered different from MTTR (Mean Time To Repair); in particular, MDT usually includes organizational and logistical factors (such as business days or waiting for components to arrive) while MTTR is usually understood as more narrow and more technical.\n\nTwo components formula_6 (for instance hard drives, servers, etc.) may be arranged in a network, in \"series\" or in \"parallel\". The terminology is here used by close analogy to electrical circuits, but has a slightly different meaning. We say that the two components are in series if the failure of \"either\" causes the failure of the network, and that they are in parallel if only the failure of \"both\" causes the network to fail. The MTBF of the resulting two-component network with repairable components can be computed according to the following formulae, assuming that the MTBF of both individual components is known:\n\nwhere formula_8 is the network in which the components are arranged in series.\n\nFor the network containing parallel repairable components, to find out the MTBF of the whole system, in addition to component MTBFs, it is also necessary to know their respective MDTs. Then, assuming that MDTs are negligible compared to MTBFs (which usually stands in practice), the MTBF for the parallel system consisting from two parallel repairable components can be written as follows:\n\nformula_9\n\nwhere formula_10 is the network in which the components are arranged in parallel, and formula_11 is the probability of failure of component formula_12 during \"vulnerability window\" formula_13.\n\nIntuitively, both these formulae can be explained from the point of view of failure probabilities. First of all, let's note that the probability of a system failing within a certain timeframe is the inverse of its MTBF. Then, when considering series of components, failure of any component leads to the failure of the whole system, so (assuming that failure probabilities are small, which is usually the case) probability of the failure of the whole system within a given interval can be approximated as a sum of failure probabilities of the components. With parallel components the situation is a bit more complicated: the whole system will fail if and only if after one of the components fails, the other component fails while the first component is being repaired; this is where MDT comes into play: the faster the first component is repaired, the less is the \"vulnerability window\" for the other component to fail.\n\nUsing similar logic, MDT for a system out of two serial components can be calculated as:\nand for a system out of two parallel components MDT can be calculated as:\n\nThrough successive application of these four formulae, the MTBF and MDT of any network of repairable components can be computed, provided that the MTBF and MDT is known for each component. In a special but all-important case of several serial components, MTBF calculation can be easily generalised into \nwhich can be shown by induction, and likewise\nsince the formula for the mdt of two components in parallel is identical to that of the mtbf for two components in series.\n\nThere are many variations of MTBF, such as \"mean time between system aborts\" (MTBSA), \"mean time between critical failures\" (MTBCF) or \"mean time between unscheduled removal\" (MTBUR). Such nomenclature is used when it is desirable to differentiate among types of failures, such as critical and non-critical failures. For example, in an automobile, the failure of the FM radio does not prevent the primary operation of the vehicle.\n\nIt is recommended to use \"Mean time to failure\" (MTTF) instead of MTBF in cases where a system is replaced after a failure (\"non-repairable system\"), since MTBF denotes time between failures in a system which can be repaired. \n\nMTTFd is an extension of MTTF, where MTTFd is only concerned about failures which would result in a dangerous condition. It can be calculated as follows:\n\nwhere \"B\" is the number of operations that a device will operate prior to 10% of a sample of those devices would fail and \"n\" is number of operations. \"B\" is the same calculation, but where 10% of the sample would fail to danger. \"n\" is the number of operations/cycles in one year.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1597286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1597286", "title": "National Opera of Ukraine", "text": "National Opera of Ukraine\n\nThe Kyiv Opera group was formally established in the summer of 1867, and is the third oldest in Ukraine, after Odessa Opera and Lviv Opera. Today, the Kyiv Opera Company performs at the National Opera House of Ukraine named after Taras Shevchenko in Kyiv.\n\nEstablished in the summer of 1867 by Ferdinand Berger (? - 1875). Berger succeeded in inviting many talented singers, musicians, and conductors, and the city council (duma) had offered the newly created trouppe to use the City Theatre (constructed in 1856, architect I. Shtrom) for their performances. Officially, the theatre was named the City Theatre but was most commonly referred to as the Russian Opera. The day of the first performance, November 8 (October 27 old style), 1867 was made a city holiday. The performance of the opera \"Askold's Tomb\" by Alexey Verstovsky was the troupe's debut. The initial success is attributed to the vocal talents of that time of O. Satagano-Gorchakova, F. L'vov, M. Agramov but also to the captivating plot taken from some principal pages of the ancient history of the city.\n\nEarly performances were mostly Russian operas, including \"Ruslan and Ludmila\" by Mikhail Glinka, \"Rusalka\" by Alexander Dargomyzhsky, \"Maccabees\" by Anton Rubinstein and \"The Power of the Fiend\" by A. Serov, as well as translated European operas including \"The Barber of Seville\" by Rossini, \"The Marriage of Figaro\" by Mozart, \"Der Freischütz\" by Weber, \"Lucia di Lammermoor\" by Donizetti, and operas by Giuseppe Verdi, which became the favorite of the Kievites.\n\nOn February 4, 1896, after a morning performance of \"Eugene Onegin\" by Tchaikovsky, a fire erupted from an unextinguished candle in the theatre. The fire consumed the whole building within several hours. One of the largest musical libraries in Europe along with numerous costumes and stage props of many performances were lost during the fire. After the fire of the City Theatre, the troupe performed on other stages for several years, including Bergonie's Theatre (now the National Theatre of Russian Drama named after Lesya Ukrainka), Solovtsov's Theatre (now the National Theatre named after Ivan Franko) and even on the arena of the famous Krutikov's Circus.\n\nAfter the fire, the City Council had announced the international competition to design a new building for the Opera Theatre in Kyiv. The winning proposal was by Victor Schröter. The exterior was designed in Neo-Renaissance style and had accounted for the needs of the actors and the spectators. The interior was redesigned in a classical style and called \"Viennese Modern\". However, his greatest achievement is considered to be the stage - one of the largest in Europe designed to the latest engineering standards.\n\nOn , the solemn opening of the new premise of the theatre took place with a performance of cantata Kyiv by composer Wilhelm Hartweld (1859 - 1927) and a presentation of the opera \"Life for the Tsar\" by M. Glinka.\n\nOn , there was a performance of Rimsky-Korsakov's \"The Tale of Tsar Saltan\" at the Kiev Opera House in the presence of the Tsar and his two oldest daughters, the Grand Duchesses Olga and Tatiana. The theater was occupied by 90 men posted as interior guards. During the intermission of a performance Prime Minister Pyotr Stolypin was killed.\nAccording to Alexander Spiridovich, after the second act \"Stolypin was standing in front of the ramp separating the parterre from the orchestra, his back to the stage. On his right were Baron Freedericks and Gen. Suhkomlinov.\" His personal body guard had gone to smoke. Stolypin was shot twice, once in the arm and once in the chest by Dmitry Bogrov, a leftist revolutionary, trying to rehabilitate himself. Bogrov ran to one of the entries and was subsequently caught. \"He [Stolypin] turned toward the Imperial Box, then seeing the Tsar who had entered the box, he made a gesture with both hands to tell the Tsar to go back.\" The orchestra began to play \"God Save the Tsar.\" The doctors hoped Stolypin would recover, but, despite never losing consciousness, his condition deteriorated. The next day, the distressed Tsar knelt at Stolypin's hospital bedside and kept repeating the words \"Forgive me\". Stolypin died three days later.\n\nIn the first decade of the 20th century, the Kyiv Opera Theatre attracted the most outstanding Ukrainian and Russian singers, including O. Petlyash, P. Tsecevich, K. Voronets, M. Medvedev, K. Brun, O. Mosin and O. Kamionsky and famous opera stars from the West often came on tours. Several unusual for the time performances took place on the stage: \"Die Walkure\" by Wagner, \"Sadko\" by Rimsky-Korsakov and \"Mefistofele\" by Arrigo Boito.\n\nAs Kyiv began to grow and with the conclusion of World War I, the Kyiv Opera occupied a special place in the USSR and the world. The Kyiv Opera Theatre was considered to be one of the most prestigious in Ukraine and Russia. Kurt Adler was First Conductor from 1933-1935.\n\nNotes\n"}
{"id": "39199006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39199006", "title": "Nirmul Committee", "text": "Nirmul Committee\n\nThe Nirmul Committee was founded on 19 January 1992 by 101 Bangladeshi activists to seek justice for the genocide carried out during the Bangladesh liberation war. Operating in Bangladesh and Britain they claim the policies of the Jamaat-e-Islami are similar to those of the British National Party. The London branch protested against the arrival of Delwar Hossain Sayeedi at a Mosque in East London and demanded his British visa be revoked.\n\nIn 2000, the committee's leaders established the secular heritage group Swadhinata Trust to raise youth awareness of, and pride in, Bengali history and culture.\n\n"}
{"id": "35554143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35554143", "title": "October Horse", "text": "October Horse\n\nIn ancient Roman religion, the October Horse (Latin Equus October) was an animal sacrifice to Mars carried out on October 15, coinciding with the end of the agricultural and military campaigning season. The rite took place during one of three horse-racing festivals held in honor of Mars, the others being the two Equirria on February 27 and March 14.\n\nTwo-horse chariot races (\"bigae\") were held in the Campus Martius, the area of Rome named for Mars, after which the right-hand horse of the winning team was transfixed by a spear, then sacrificed. The horse's head \"(caput)\" and tail (\"cauda\") were cut off and used separately in the two subsequent parts of the ceremonies: two neighborhoods staged a fight for the right to display the head, and the freshly bloodied \"cauda\" was carried to the Regia for sprinkling the sacred hearth of Rome.\n\nAncient references to the \"Equus October\" are scattered over more than six centuries: the earliest is that of Timaeus (3rd century BC), who linked the sacrifice to the Trojan Horse and the Romans' claim to Trojan descent, with the latest in the Calendar of Philocalus (354 AD), where it is noted as still occurring, even as Christianity was becoming the dominant religion of the Empire. Most scholars see an Etruscan influence on the early formation of the ceremonies.\n\nThe October Horse is the only instance of horse sacrifice in Roman religion; the Romans typically sacrificed animals that were a normal part of their diet. The unusual ritual of the October Horse has thus been analyzed at times in light of other Indo-European forms of horse sacrifice, such as the Vedic \"ashvamedha\" and the Irish ritual described by Giraldus Cambrensis, both of which have to do with kingship. Although the ritual battle for possession of the head may preserve an element from the early period when Rome was ruled by kings, the October Horse's collocation of agriculture and war is characteristic of the Republic. The sacred topography of the rite and the role of Mars in other equestrian festivals also suggest aspects of initiation and rebirth ritual. The complex or even contradictory aspects of the October Horse probably result from overlays of traditions accumulated over time.\n\nThe rite of the October Horse took place on the Ides of October, but no name is recorded for a festival on that date. The grammarian Festus describes it as follows:\nThe October Horse is named from the annual sacrifice to Mars in the Campus Martius during the month of October. It is the right-hand horse of the winning team in the two-horse chariot races. The customary competition for its head between the residents of the Suburra and those of the Sacra Via was no trivial affair; the latter would get to attach it to the wall of the Regia, or the former to the Mamilian Tower. Its tail was transported to the Regia with sufficient speed that the blood from it could be dripped onto the hearth for the sake of becoming part of the sacred rite \"(res divina)\".\nIn a separate passage, the Augustan antiquarian Verrius Flaccus adds the detail that the horse's head is adorned with bread. The Calendar of Philocalus notes that on October 15 \"the Horse takes place at the Nixae,\" either an altar to birth deities \"(di nixi)\" or less likely an obscure landmark called the Ciconiae Nixae. According to Roman tradition, the Campus Martius had been consecrated to Mars by their ancestors as horse pasturage and an equestrian training ground for youths.\n\nThe \"sacred rite\" that the horse's blood became part of is usually taken to be the Parilia, a festival of rural character on April 21, which became the date on which the founding of Rome was celebrated.\n\nVerrius Flaccus notes that the horse ritual was carried out \"ob frugum eventum\", usually taken to mean \"in thanks for the completed harvest\" or \"for the sake of the next harvest\", since winter wheat was sown in the fall. The phrase has been connected to the divine personification Bonus Eventus, \"Good Outcome,\" who had a temple of unknown date in the Campus Martius and whom Varro lists as one of the twelve agricultural deities. But like other ceremonies in October, the sacrifice occurred during the time of the army's return and reintegration into society, for which Verrius also accounted by explaining that a horse is suited for war, an ox for tilling. The Romans did not use horses as draft animals for farm work, nor chariots in warfare, but Polybius specifies that the victim is a war horse.\n\nThe ritual was held outside the \"pomerium\", Rome's sacred boundary, presumably because of its martial character, but agriculture was also an extra-urban activity, as Vitruvius indicates when he notes that the correct sacred place for Ceres was outside the city \"(extra urbem loco)\". In Rome's early history, the roles of soldier and farmer were complementary:\nIn early Rome agriculture and military activity were closely bound up, in the sense that the Roman farmer was also a soldier. … In the case of the October Horse, for example, we should not be trying to decide whether it is a military, or an agricultural festival; but see it rather as one of the ways in which the convergence of farming and warfare (or more accurately of farmers and fighters) might be expressed.\nThis polyvalence was characteristic of the god for whom the sacrifice was conducted, since among the Romans Mars brought war and bloodshed, agriculture and virility, and thus both death and fertility within his sphere of influence.\n\nThe Augustan poets Propertius and Ovid both mention horse as an ingredient in the ritual preparation \"suffimen\" or \"suffimentum\", which the Vestals compounded for use in the lustration of shepherds and their sheep at the Parilia. Propertius may imply that this horse was not an original part of the preparation: \"the purification rites \"(lustra)\" are \"now\" renewed by means of the dismembered horse\". Ovid specifies that the horse's blood was used for the \"suffimen\". While the blood from the tail was dripped or smeared on the sacred hearth of Rome in October, blood or ashes from the rest of the animal could have been processed and preserved for the \"suffimen\" as well. Although no other horse sacrifice in Rome is recorded, Georges Dumézil and others have attempted to exclude the \"Equus October\" as the source of equine blood for the Parilia.\n\nAnother important ingredient for the \"suffimen\" was the ash produced from the holocaust of an unborn calf at the Fordicidia on April 15, along with the stalks from which beans had been harvested. One source, from late antiquity and not always reliable, notes that beans were sacred to Mars.\n\n\"Suffimentum\" is a general word for a preparation used for healing, purification, or warding off ill influence. In his treatise on veterinary medicine, Vegetius recommends a \"suffimentum\" as an effective cure for draft animals and for humans prone to emotional outbursts, as well as for driving off hailstorms, demons and ghosts \"(daemones\" and \"umbras)\".\n\nSacrificial victims were most often domestic animals normally part of the Roman diet, and the meat was eaten at a banquet shared by those celebrating the rite. Horse meat was distasteful to the Romans, and Tacitus classes horses among \"profane\" animals. Inedible victims such as the October Horse and dogs were typically offered to chthonic deities in the form of a holocaust, resulting in no shared meal. In Greece dog sacrifices were made to Mars' counterpart Ares and the related war god Enyalios. At Rome, dogs were sacrificed at the Robigalia, a festival for protecting the crops at which chariot races were held for Mars along with the namesake deity, and at a very few other public rites. Birth deities, however, also received offerings of puppies or bitches, and infant cemeteries show a high concentration of puppies, sometimes ritually dismembered. Inedible victims were offered to a restricted group of deities mainly involved with the cycle of birth and death, but the reasoning is obscure.\n\nThe importance of the horse to the war god is likewise not self-evident, since the Roman military was based on infantry. Mars' youthful armed priests the Salii, attired as \"typical representatives of the archaic infantry,\" performed their rituals emphatically on foot, with dance steps. The equestrian order was of lesser social standing than the senatorial \"patres\", \"fathers\", who were originally the patricians only. The \"Magister equitum\", \"Master of the Horse,\" was subordinate to the \"Dictator\", who was forbidden the use of the horse except through special legislation. By the late Republic, the Roman cavalry was formed primarily from allies \"(auxilia)\", and Arrian emphasizes the foreign origin of cavalry training techniques, particularly among the Celts of Gaul and Spain. Roman technical terms pertaining to horsemanship and horse-drawn vehicles are mostly not Latin in origin, and often from Gaulish.\n\nUnder some circumstances, Roman religion placed the horse under an explicit ban. Horses were forbidden in the grove of Diana Nemorensis, and the patrician Flamen Dialis was religiously prohibited from riding a horse. Mars, however, was associated with horses at his Equirria festivals and the equestrian \"Troy Game\", which was one of the events Augustus staged for the dedication of the Temple of Mars Ultor in 2 BC.\n\nHorse sacrifice was regularly offered by peoples the Romans classified as \"barbarians,\" such as Scythians, but also at times by Greeks. In Macedonia, \"horses in armor\" were sacrificed as a lustration for the army. Immediately after describing the October Horse, Festus gives three other examples: the Spartans sacrifice a horse \"to the winds\" on Mount Taygetus; among the Sallentini, horses were burnt alive for an obscure Jove Menzana; and every year the Rhodians dedicated a four-horse chariot \"(quadriga)\" to the Sun and cast it into the sea. The \"quadriga\" traditionally represented the sun, as the \"biga\" did the moon. A Persian horse-sacrifice to \"Hyperion clothed in rays of light\" was noted by Ovid and Greek sources.\n\nIn contrast to cultures that offered a horse to the war god in advance to ask for success, the Roman horse sacrifice marked the close of the military campaigning season. Among the Romans, horse- and chariot-races were characteristic of \"old and obscure\" religious observances such as the Consualia that at times propitiated chthonic deities. The horse races at the shadowy Taurian Games in honor of the underworld gods \"(di inferi)\" were held in the Campus Martius as were Mars' Equirria. The horse had been established as a funerary animal among the Greeks and Etruscans by the Archaic period. Hendrik Wagenvoort even speculated about an archaic form of Mars who \"had been imagined as the god of death and the underworld in the shape of a horse.\"\n\nThe two-horse chariot races \"(bigae)\" that preceded the October Horse sacrifice determined the selection of the optimal victim. In a dual yoke, the right-hand horse was the lead or strongest animal, and thus the one from the winning chariot was chosen as the most potent offering for Mars.\n\nChariots have a rich symbolism in Roman culture, but the Romans never used chariots in war, though they faced enemies who did. The chariot was part of Roman military culture primarily as the vehicle of the triumphing general, who rode in an ornamented four-horse car markedly impractical for actual war. Most Roman racing practices were of Etruscan origin, part of the Etruscan tradition of public games \"(ludi)\" and equestrian processions. Chariot racing was imported from Magna Graecia no earlier than the 6th century BC.\n\nImages of chariot races were considered good luck, but the races themselves were magnets for magic in attempts to influence the outcome. One law from the Theodosian Code prohibits charioteers from using magic to win, on pain of death. Some of the ornaments placed on horses were good-luck charms or devices to ward off malevolence, including bells, wolves' teeth, crescents, and brands. This counter-magic was directed at actual practices; binding spells \"(defixiones)\" have been found at race tracks. The \"defixio\" sometimes employed the spirits of the prematurely dead to work harm. On Greek racetracks, the turning posts were heroes' tombs or altars for propitiating malevolent spirits who might cause harm to the men or horses. The design of the turning posts \"(metae)\" on a Roman race course was derived from Etruscan funerary monuments.\nPliny attributes the invention of the two-horse chariot to the \"Phrygians\", an ethnic designation that the Romans came to regard as synonymous with \"Trojan.\" In the Greek narrative tradition, chariots played a role in Homeric warfare, reflecting their importance among the historical Mycenaeans. By the time the Homeric epics were composed, however, fighting from chariot was no longer a part of Greek warfare, and the \"Iliad\" has warriors taking chariots as transportation to the battlefield, then fighting on foot. Chariot racing was a part of funeral games quite early, as the first reference to a chariot race in Western literature is as an event in the funeral games held for Patroclus in the \"Iliad\". Perhaps the most famous scene from the \"Iliad\" involving a chariot is Achilles dragging the body of Hector, the Trojan heir to the throne, three times around the tomb of Patroclus; in the version of the \"Aeneid\", it is the city walls that are circled. Variations of the scene occur throughout Roman funerary art.\n\nGregory Nagy sees horses and chariots, and particularly the chariot of Achilles, as embodying the concept of \"ménos\", which he defines as \"conscious life, power, consciousness, awareness,\" associated in the Homeric epics with \"thūmós,\" \"spiritedness,\" and \"\", \"soul,\" all of which depart the body in death. The gods endow both heroes and horses with \"ménos\" through breathing into them, so that \"warriors eager for battle are literally 'snorting with \"ménos\".'\" A metaphor at \"Iliad\" 5.296 compares a man falling in battle to horses collapsing when they are unharnessed after exertions. Cremation frees the \"psychē\" from both \"thūmós\" and \"ménos\" so that it may pass into the afterlife; the horse, which embodies \"ménos\", races off and leaves the chariot behind, as in the philosophical allegory of the chariot from Plato. The anthropological term \"mana\" has sometimes been borrowed to conceptualize the October Horse's potency, also expressed in modern scholarship as \"numen\". The physical exertions of the hard-breathing horse in its contest are thought to intensify or concentrate this \"mana\" or \"numen\".\n\nIn honoring the god who presided over the Roman census, which among other functions registered the eligibility of young men for military service, the festivals of Mars have a strongly lustral character. A lustration was performed in the Campus Martius following the census. Although lustral ceremonies are not recorded as occurring before the chariot races of the Equirria or the October Horse, it is plausible that they were, and that they were seen as a test or assurance of the lustration's efficacy.\n\nThe significance of the October Horse's head as a powerful trophy may be illuminated by the \"caput acris equi\", \"head of a spirited ('sharp') horse,\" which Vergil says was uncovered by Dido and her colonists when they began the dig to found Carthage: \"by this sign it was shown that the race \"(gens)\" would be distinguished in war and abound with the means of life.\" The 4th-century agricultural writer Palladius advised farmers to place the skull of a horse or ass on their land; the animals were not to be \"virgin,\" because the purpose was to promote fertility. The practice may be related to the effigies known as \"oscilla\", figures or faces that Vergil says were hung from pine trees by mask-wearing Ausonian farmers of Trojan descent when they were sowing seed.\n\nThe location of sexual vitality or fertility in the horse's head suggests its talismanic potency. The substance \"hippomanes\", which was thought to induce sexual passion, was supposedly exuded from the forehead of a foal; Aelian (\"ca.\" 175–235 AD) says either the forehead or \"loins.\" Called \"amor\" by Vergil, it is an ingredient in Dido's ritual preparations before her suicide in the \"Aeneid\".\n\nOn Roman funerary reliefs, the deceased is often depicted riding on a horse for his journey to the afterlife, sometimes pointing to his head. This gesture signifies the \"Genius\", the divine embodiment of the vital principle found in each individual conceived of as residing in the head, in some ways comparable to the Homeric \"thumos\" or the Latin \"numen\".\n\nPendants of bread were attached to the head of the \"Equus October:\" a portion of the inedible sacrifice was retained for humans and garnished with an everyday food associated with Ceres and Vesta. The shape of the \"breads\" is not recorded. Equines decorated with bread are found also on the Feast of Vesta on June 9, when the asses who normally worked in the milling and baking industry were dressed with garlands from which decorative loaves dangled. According to Ovid, the ass was honored at the Vestalia as a reward for its service to the Virgin Mother, who is portrayed in Augustan ideology as simultaneously native and Trojan. When the ithyphallic god Priapus, an imported deity who was never the recipient of public cult, was about to rape Vesta as she slept, the braying ass woke her. In revenge, Priapus thereafter demanded the ass as a customary sacrifice to him. The early Christian writer Lactantius says that the garland of bread pendants commemorates the preservation of Vesta's sexual integrity \"(pudicitia).\" Aelian recounts a myth in which the ass misplaces a \"pharmakon\" entrusted to him by the king of the gods, thereby causing humanity to lose its eternal youth.\nThe symbolism of bread for the October Horse is unstated in the ancient sources. Robert Turcan has seen the garland of loaves as a way to thank Mars for protecting the harvest. Mars was linked to Vesta, the Regia, and the production of grain through several religious observances. In his poem on the calendar, Ovid thematically connects bread and war throughout the month of June (\"Iunius\", a name for which Ovid offers multiple derivations including Juno and \"youths\", \"iuniores\"). Immediately following the story of Vesta, Priapus, and the ass, Ovid associates Vesta, Mars, and bread in recounting the Gallic siege of Rome. The Gauls were camped in the Field of Mars, and the Romans had taken to their last retreat, the Capitoline citadel. At an emergency council of the gods, Mars objects to the removal of the sacred talismans of Trojan Vesta which guarantee the safety of the state, and is indignant that the Romans, destined to rule the world, are starving. Vesta causes flour to materialize, and the process of breadmaking occurs miraculously during the night, resulting in an abundance \"(ops)\" of the gifts of Ceres. Jupiter wakes the sleeping generals and delivers an oracular message: they are to throw that which they least want to surrender from the citadel onto the enemy. Puzzled at first, as is conventional in receiving an oracle, the Romans then throw down the loaves of bread as weapons against the shields and helmets of the Gauls, causing the enemy to despair of starving Rome into submission.\n\nJ.G. Frazer pointed to a similar throwing away of food abundance as a background to the October Horse, which he saw as the embodiment of the \"corn spirit\". According to tradition, the fields consecrated to Mars had been appropriated by the Etruscan king Tarquinius Superbus for his private use. Accumulated acts of arrogance among the royal family led to the expulsion of the king. The overthrow of the monarchy occurred at harvest time, and the grain from the Campus Martius had already been gathered for threshing. Even though the tyrant's other property had been seized and redistributed among the people, the consuls declared that the harvest was under religious prohibition. In recognition of the new political liberty, a vote was taken on the matter, after which the grain and chaff were willingly thrown into the Tiber river. Frazer saw the October Horse as a harvest festival in origin, because it took place on the king's farmland in the autumn. Since no source accounts for what happens to the horse apart from the head and tail, it is possible that it was reduced to ash and disposed of in the same manner as Tarquin's grain.\n\nGeorge Devereux and others have argued that \"cauda\", or οὐρά \"(oura)\" in Greek sources, is a euphemism for the penis of the October Horse, which could be expected to contain more blood for the \"suffimen\". The tail itself, however, was a magico-religious symbol of fertility or power. The practice of attaching a horse's tail to a helmet may originate in a desire to appropriate the animal's power in battle; in the \"Iliad\", Hector's horse-crested helmet is a terrifying sight. In the iconography of the Mithraic mysteries, the tail of the sacrificial bull is often grasped, as is the horse's tail in depictions of the Thracian Rider god, as if to possess its power. A pinax from Corinth depicts a dwarf holding his phallus with both hands while standing on the tail of a stallion carrying a rider; although the dwarf has sometimes been interpreted as the horse-threatening Taraxippus, the phallus is more typically an apotropaic talisman \"(fascinum\") to ward off malevolence.\n\nSatyrs and sileni, though later characterized as goat-like, in the Archaic period were regularly depicted with equine features, including a prominent horsetail; they were known for uncontrolled sexuality, and are often ithyphallic in art. Satyrs are first recorded in Roman culture as part of \"ludi\", appearing in the preliminary parade \"(pompa circensis)\" of the first Roman Games. The tail of the wolf, an animal regularly associated with Mars, was said by Pliny to contain \"amatorium virus,\" aphrodisiac power. Therefore, a phallic-like potency may be attributed to the October Horse's tail without requiring \"cauda\" to mean \"penis,\" since the ubiquity of phallic symbols in Roman culture would make euphemism or substitution unnecessary.\n\nTimaeus (3rd century BC) attempted to explain the ritual of the October Horse in connection with the Trojan Horse—an attempt mostly regarded by ancient and modern scholars as \"hardly convincing.\" As recorded by Polybius (2nd century BC),\nhe tells us that the Romans still commemorate the disaster at Troy by shooting (κατακοντίζειν, \"to spear down\") on a certain day a war-horse before the city in the Campus Martius, because the capture of Troy was due to the wooden horse — a most childish statement. For at that rate we should have to say that all barbarian tribes were descendants of the Trojans, since nearly all of them, or at least the majority, when they are entering on a war or on the eve of a decisive battle sacrifice a horse, divining the issue from the manner in which it falls. Timaeus in dealing with the foolish practice seems to me to exhibit not only ignorance but pedantry in supposing that in sacrificing a horse they do so because Troy was said to have been taken by means of a horse.\nPlutarch (d. 120 AD) also offers a Trojan origin as a possibility, noting that the Romans claimed to have descended from the Trojans and would want to punish the horse that betrayed the city. Festus said that this was a common belief, but rejects it on the same grounds as Polybius.\n\nMars and a horse's head appear on opposite sides of the earliest Roman didrachm, introduced during the Pyrrhic War, which was the subject of Timaeus's book. Michael Crawford attributes Timaeus's interest in the October Horse to the appearance of this coinage in conjunction with the war.\n\nWalter Burkert has suggested that while the October Horse cannot be taken as a sacrificial reenactment against the Trojan Horse, there may be some shared ritualistic origin. The Trojan Horse succeeded as a stratagem because the Trojans accepted its validity as a votive offering or dedication to a deity, and they wanted to transfer that power within their own walls. The spear that the Trojan priest Laocoön drives into the side of the wooden horse is paralleled by the spear used by the officiating priest at the October sacrifice.\n\nTimaeus, who interpreted the October Horse in light of Rome's claim to Trojan origins, is both the earliest source and the only one that specifies a spear as the sacrificial implement. The spear was an attribute of Mars in the way that Jupiter wielded the thunderbolt or Neptune the trident. The spear of Mars was kept in the Regia, the destination of the October Horse's tail. Sacrificial victims were normally felled with a mallet and \"securis\" (sacrificial axe), and other implements would have been necessary for dismembering the horse. A spear was used against the bull in a taurobolium, perhaps as a remnant of the ritual's origin as a hunt, but otherwise it is a sacrificial oddity.\n\nBecause the sacrifice took place in the Campus Martius, during a religious festival celebrated for Mars, it is often assumed that the Flamen Martialis presided. This priest of Mars may have wielded a spear ritually on other occasions, but no source names the officiant over the October Horse rite.\n\nThe \"Equus October\" occurred on the Ides of October. All Ides were sacred to Jupiter. Here as at a few other points in the calendar, a day sacred to Mars doubles up with that of another god. The \"Equus\" preceded the Armilustrium (\"Purification of Arms\") on October 19. Although most of Mars' festivals cluster in his namesake month of March \"(Martius)\", ceremonies pertaining to Mars in October are seen as concluding the season in which he was most active.\n\nAndré Dacier, an early editor of Festus, noted in regard to the October Horse the tradition that Troy had fallen in October. The October Horse figured in the elaborate efforts of the 19th-century chronologist Edward Greswell to ascertain the date of that event. Greswell assumed that the \"Equus October\" commemorated the date Troy fell, and after accounting for adjustments to the original Roman calendar as a result of the Julian reform, arrived on October 19, 1181 BC.\n\nThe festival diametrically opposed to the October Horse on the calendar was the Fordicidia on the Ides of April. The two festivals were divided by six lunations, with a near-perfect symmetry of days (177 and 178) between them in the two halves of the year. The peculiar sacrifice of unborn calves on the Fordicidia provided the other animal ingredient for the \"suffimen\" of the Parilia on April 21.\n\nPlutarch places the horse sacrifice on the Ides of December, presumably because it occurred in the tenth month, which in the original Roman calendar was December instead of October, as indicated by the month's name (from \"decem\", \"ten\").\n\nMost religious events at Rome were set in a single place, or held simultaneously in multiple locations, such as neighborhoods or private households. But like the ritual of the Argei, the October Horse links several sites within Roman religious topography. The mapping of sites may be part of the ritual's meaning, accumulated in layers over time.\n\nThe chariot races and sacrifice take place in the Campus Martius, formerly \"ager Tarquiniorum\", Tarquin land, an alluvial plain along the Tiber that was outside the \"pomerium\", Rome's sacred boundary. Religious rituals involving war, agriculture, and death are regularly held outside the \"pomerium\". The race seems to have been staged with temporary facilities on the Trigarium, near the Tarentum, the precinct within which the Altar of Dis and Proserpina was located. Father Dis was the Roman equivalent of the Greek \"Plouton\" (Pluto), and his consort Proserpina (Persephone) embodied the vegetative cycle of growth symbolizing the course of the human soul through birth, death, and rebirth into the afterlife, over which the couple presided in the mysteries. The cult may have been imported to Rome when the Saecular Games were instituted in 249 BC.\n\nThe sacrifice itself took place within the Tarentum \"ad Nixas\", probably an altar to the deities of birth \"(di nixi)\", invoked as \"Ilithyis\" and given a nocturnal sacrifice in 17 BC at the Saecular Games, which originated at the site as the \"ludi tarentini\". According to Festus, the \"ludi tarentini\" were instituted in honor of Mars under Tarquinius Superbus. Birth deities appear both in the epigraphic record of the 17 BC games and prominently in Horace's \"Carmen Saeculare\", composed for the occasion and performed by a children's choir: \"In accordance with rite, open up full-term births, Ilithyia: watch over mothers and keep them calm, whether you are best called Lucina or Genitalis\".\n\nThe Campus Martius continued in the Imperial era to be a place for equestrian and military training for youth. The Temple of Mars Ultor dedicated in 2 BC by Augustus in the Campus became the site at which young men sacrificed to conclude their rite of passage into adulthood when assuming the \"toga virilis\" (\"man's toga\") around age 14. The October Horse sacrifice for Mars at an altar for birth deities suggests his role as a patron to young warriors who undergo the symbolic rebirth of initiation ritual, a theme also of the equestrian Troy Game. The emperor Julian mentions the sacrifice of a horse in Roman initiation rites, without specifying further. To prove themselves, younger, less experienced drivers usually started out with the two-horse chariots that were used in the October Horse race. Chariot races are the most common scene depicted on the sarcophagi of Roman children, and typically show Cupids driving \"bigae\". Roman rituals of birth and death were closely related, given the high rate of infant mortality and death in childbirth. The Taurian Games, horse races held in the Campus Martius to propitiate gods of the underworld \"(di inferi)\", were instituted in response to an epidemic of infant mortality.\n\nSome scholars think Roman conceptions of Mars were influenced by the Etruscan child-god Maris and the centaur Mares, ancestor of the Ausones. Maris is depicted with a cauldron symbolizing rebirth, and the half-man, half-horse Mares three times underwent death and rebirth. In association with Etruscan-influenced horse-racing festivals, John F. Hall saw Mars as a god having \"power over death.\"\n\n\"Ad Nixas\" may, however, refer to a landmark called the Ciconiae Nixae (\"Travailing Storks\"), which did not exist during the Republican period. In that case, the original site for the sacrifice was likely to have been the Altar of Mars \"(Ara Martis)\" in the Campus Martius, the oldest center in Rome for the cultivation of Mars as a deity.\n\nThe dismemberment of the horse led to a ritual bifurcation into ceremonies involving the head and tail separately. The tail was speedily transported by foot to the Regia. The route would have crossed east of the center of the Campus Martius, and along the outside of the Servian Wall to the Porta Fontinalis (in present-day Rome, to the northeast of the Altare della Patria). A monumental portico built in 193 BC connected the Porta Fontinalis to the Altar of Mars in the Campus. Once within the walls, the route would have followed the Clivus Lautumiarum up to the Comitium, then along the Via Sacra to the Regia, for about a mile. The blood from the tail was then dripped or smeared onto the sacred hearth. This collocation of divine functions recalls the annual renewal of the fire of Vesta on March 1, the \"birthday\" of Mars, when laurel was hung on the Regia and New Year's Day originally was celebrated on the archaic Roman calendar.\n\nThe head became the object of contention between two factions, residents of the Via Sacra and of the Subura. The battle decided where the head would be displayed for the coming year. If the Suburan faction won, it would be mounted in their neighborhood on the Tower of the Mamilii \"(Turris Mamilia)\". If the residents of the Via Sacra won, the head would go to the Regia, formerly the residence of the king, as well as the destination of the tail.\n\nThe claim of the Mamilii to the head may be based on their family history, which connected them by marriage to the ruling dynasty of the Tarquins. A Mamilius who was the son-in-law of Tarquinius Superbus, the last Etruscan king, had given him refuge after he was expelled from Rome and the monarchy abolished. Despite this questionable beginning, the Mamilii were later known for loyalty and outstanding service to the Republic.\n\nThe Subura had equine associations in the Imperial era. Martial mentions mule teams on its steep slope, though normally traffic from draft animals was not permitted within Rome during daylight hours. An inscription found there indicates that the muleteers sought the divine protection of Hercules, Silvanus, and Epona. Silvanus had an association with Mars dating back to the archaic agricultural prayer preserved by Cato's farming treatise, in which the two are invoked either as one or jointly to protect the health of livestock. Epona was the Celtic horse goddess, the sole deity with a Gaulish name whose cult can be documented in Rome.\n\nExactly where the ceremonial struggle took place, or how, is unclear, but it implies a final procession to either site.\n\nDuring the era of Wilhelm Mannhardt, J.G. Frazer and the Cambridge Ritualists, the October Horse was regarded as the embodiment of the \"corn spirit\", \"conceived in human or animal form\" in Frazer's view, so that \"the last standing corn is part of its body—its neck, its head, or its tail.\" (\"Corn\" here means \"grain\" in general, not \"maize\".) In \"The Golden Bough\" (1890), Frazer regarded the horse's tail and blood as \"the chief parts of the corn-spirit's representative,\" the transporting of which to the Regia brought the corn-spirit's blessing \"to the king's house and hearth\" and the community. He conjectured that horses were also sacrificed at the grove of Diana Nemorensis at Aricia, as a mythic retaliation because the resurrected Virbius, the first divine \"King of the Wood\" (the priest called \"rex nemorensis\"), had been killed by horses—an explanation also of why horses were banned from the grove. As early as 1908, William Warde Fowler expressed his doubts that the corn-spirit concept sufficiently accounted for all the ritual aspects of the \"Equus October\".\n\nDumézil argued that the October Horse preserved vestiges of a common Indo-European rite of kingship, evidenced also by the Vedic \"ashvamedha\" and the Irish inaugural sacrifice described by Giraldus Cambrensis as taking place in Ulster in the early medieval period. Perhaps the most striking similarity between the Vedic ritual and the Roman is that the sacrificial victim was the right-hand horse of a chariot team, though not the winner of a race in the Vedic rite. The head in the \"ashvamedha\", signifying spiritual energy, was reserved as a talisman for the king afterwards; the middle of the horse embodied physical force; and the tail was grasped by the officiant and represented the fertility of livestock. No race was involved in the Celtic ritual, either; the horse, a mare who seems to have been the sexual surrogate of the goddess of sovereignty, was consumed communally by king and people from a cauldron in which he was immersed and inaugurated. (In the \"ashvamedha\", the gender of horse and human is reversed.) Both the chariot race and an implied cauldron of initiation (to the extent that the latter might be relevant to the October Horse through the comparanda of the Troy Game and Mars' assimilation to the child-god Maris) are generally regarded as the elements of the Roman festival most likely to be Etruscan, and thus of uncertain value as to an Indo-European origin.\n\nSome fundamental differences between the Roman rite and the Vedic and Celtic forms pose obstacles to situating the \"Equus October\" within the trifunctional schema. The \"equus\" is sacrificed to the Roman god of war, not kingship. Dumézil's follower Jaan Puhvel deals with the Roman rite only glancingly in his essay \"Aspects of Equine Functionality,\" exploring mainly the Vedic and Celtic evidence for an \"Indo-European equine myth\" that \"involves the mating of a kingship-class representative with the hippomorphous transfunctional goddess, and the creation of twin offspring belonging to the level of the third estate.\"\n\nPuhvel finds few linkages between the October Horse and the \"ásvamedha\", primarily because the method of killing the horse differs so dramatically, and the crucial element of ritual mating is absent. He observes, however, that \"the absence of the sexual element in Roman horse sacrifice is no surprise, for early Roman ritual is exceedingly nonerotic\"—an avoidance he attributes to the Romans' desire to differentiate their sexual probity from the supposed license of the Etruscans.\n\nIn \"Homo Necans\", Walter Burkert saw the October Horse as a \"sacrifice of dissolution\" (hence his willingness to entertain the ancient tradition that associated it with the Fall of Troy), and the struggle for the head as an \"agon\", a competitive contest that vents violence and rage, as do funeral games.\n\nIn 46 BCE, discontent arose among the troops supporting Julius Caesar in the civil wars. His lavish public expenditures, they complained, came at their expense: Instead of raising the army's pay, Caesar was using his newly confiscated wealth for such displays as a silk canopy to shelter spectators at the games he staged. The disgruntled soldiers rioted. Caesar came upon them, and shocked them back into discipline by killing one on sight. According to Cassius Dio, the sole source for the episode:\n\nTwo others were slain as a sort of ritual observance (\"hierourgia,\" ἱερουργία). The true cause I am unable to state, inasmuch as the Sibyl made no utterance and there was no other similar oracle, but at any rate they were sacrificed in the Campus Martius by the \"pontifices\" and the priest of Mars, and their heads were set up near the Regia.\n\nBoth Wissowa and Dumézil read Dio's sardonic take on these events to mean that an actual sacrifice occurred with human victims replacing the October Horse. The two killings have no common elements other than the site and the display of the heads at the Regia, but the passage has been used as evidence that the flamen of Mars presided over the October Horse as well, even though the officiant is never mentioned in sources that deal explicitly with the \"Equus\". Human sacrifice had always been rare at Rome, and had been formally abolished as a part of public religion about fifty years earlier. Some executions took on a sacral aura, but Dio seems to regard the soldiers' deaths as a grotesque parody of a sacrifice, whatever Caesar's intent may have been. Jörg Rüpke thought that Dio's account, while \"muddled\", might indicate that Caesar as \"pontifex maximus\" took up the Trojan interpretation of the October Horse, in light of the Julian family's claim to have descended directly from Iulus, the son of the Trojan refugee Aeneas.\n\n"}
{"id": "37409986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37409986", "title": "Online film festivals", "text": "Online film festivals\n\nOnline film festivals are film festivals that are held entirely online. In some cases the films are shown for a certain amount of time where viewers can vote. But mostly the winners are selected by the festival organisation or a designated jury.\n\nTop Shorts and The Monthly Film Festival are some leading online film festivals. Ranked in the top 10 Best and most reviewed festivals out of over 5000 of the world's best film festivals and among the first from the online film festivals.\n\nThe first online film festival pioneered in the 1990s by the Webdance Film Festival.\n\nThe rapid pace of technological advancement had a huge effect on film festivals moving them into the online space. Many new filmmakers are starting to produce and edit their films on computers rather than on celluloid. And many film lovers are looking to the Internet for the latest independent releases. Film festivals continue to be an important outlet for filmmakers who want to showcase their works and seek audiences and investors. Many of the major film festivals understand that an online component is going to become an important part of future festivals—and future films in general.\n"}
{"id": "42901255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42901255", "title": "Online predator", "text": "Online predator\n\nOnline predators are individuals who commit child sexual abuse that begins or takes place on the Internet.\n\nInternet-facilitated sex crimes against minors involve deceit and begin with adults communicating with children over the Internet with the goal of coercing them into illegal sexual activity. Sometimes the sexual abuse happens face to face.\n\nChat rooms, instant messaging, Internet forums, social networking sites, cell phones, and even video game consoles have issues with online predations. These online areas attract predators because they allow them to have access to make contact with victims without drawing attention. Also, the anonymity of online conversations leads to the disinhibition of minors, making them feel more comfortable and more likely to engage in risky behaviors. This allows predators to use manipulation to put their targets into situations where they will comply with the predator's sexual demands. Initial manipulation often involves introducing the minors to sexual activity, showing them pornography, and requesting sexually explicit information and pictures. This online predatory behavior does not often lead to offline contact.\n\nEven though it is the mainstream view that predators will use distinct tactics to meet victims, most actual in-person meetings do not involve any deception. In fact, the minors are usually complicit with perpetrators often using promises of love and romance to seduce victims to meet.\n\nIn Australia, the murder of Carly Ryan in February 2007 led to public opinion pressure which eventually resulted in nationwide legal changes, nicknamed \"Carly's Law\", being made in 2017 to help protect minors online. Ryan, aged 15, was a victim of online grooming and predatory behaviour, which was considered unique at the time, given that Ryan was the first person in Australia (and possibly the world) killed by an online paedophile.\n\nIn the U.S., some individuals have initiated actions against laws designed to protect children. \"Doe v. Shurtleff\", 628 F.3d 1217 (10th Cir. 2010), was a United States Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit case assessing the constitutionality of Utah Code Ann. § 77-27-21.5, a law that requires sex offenders to register their internet identifiers with the state in order to \"assist in investigating kidnapping and sex-related crimes, and in apprehending offenders\". In this case, a convicted sex offender, appearing anonymously as John Doe, appealed a decision by the U.S. District Court for the District of Utah to vacate an order enjoining the enforcement of Utah Code Ann. § 77-27-21.5.\n\nCases involving stalking, violence, abduction, rape and/or murder are very rare. Most online sex offenders are young adults who target teens and seduce victims into sexual relationships. They take time to develop the trust and confidence of teens, so the teens see these relationships as romances or sexual adventures. Nearly 75 percent of victims who met offenders face-to-face did so more than once. Most of these offenders are charged with crimes such as statutory rape for non-forcible sexual contact as the victims are, by law, too young to consent. The youth most vulnerable to online sex offenders have histories of sexual or physical abuse, family problems, and tendencies to take risks both on- and offline. A 2007 study found no cases of minors being targeted by internet predators on the basis of information they had posted on social networking sites. The research that concluded the statistic that \"1 in 5 children are sexually solicited online\" is being questioned.\n\n"}
{"id": "5387716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5387716", "title": "Pavarana", "text": "Pavarana\n\nPavarana () is a Buddhist holy day celebrated on Aashvin full moon of the lunar month. It marks the end of the 3 lunar months of Vassa, sometimes called \"Buddhist Lent.\" The day is marked in some Asian countries where Theravada Buddhism is practiced. On this day, each monk (Pali: \"bhikkhu\") must come before the community of monks (\"Sangha\") and atone for an offense he may have committed during the Vassa.\n\nMost Mahayana Buddhists do not observe Vassa, though many Son/Thien monks in Korea and Vietnam do observe an equivalent retreat of three months of intensive practice in one location. \n\nIn India, where Buddhism began, there is a three-month-long rainy season. According to the Vinaya (Mahavagga, Fourth Khandhaka, section I), in the time of the Buddha, once during this rainy season, a group of normally wandering monks sought shelter by co-habitating in a residence. In order to minimize potential inter-personal strife while co-habitating, the monks agreed to remain silent for the entire three months and agreed upon a non-verbal means for sharing alms.\n\nAfter this rains retreat, when the Buddha learned of the monks' silence, he described such a measure as \"foolish.\" Instead, the Buddha instituted the Pavarana Ceremony as a means for dealing with potential conflict and breaches of disciplinary rules (Patimokkha) during the vassa season. The Buddha said:\n\n\n\n "}
{"id": "3176512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3176512", "title": "Phoenicids", "text": "Phoenicids\n\nThe Phoenicids are a minor meteor shower, first noticed by observers in New Zealand, Australia, the Indian Ocean, and South Africa during an outburst of approximately 100 meteors an hour that occurred during December 1956. Like other meteor showers, the Phoenicids get their name from the location of their radiant, which is in the constellation Phoenix. They are active from 29 November to 9 December, with a peak occurring around 5/6 December each year, and are best seen from the Southern Hemisphere.\n\nThe Phoenicids appear to be associated with a stream of material from the disintegrating comet D/1819 W1 (Blanpain).\n\nA very minor meteor shower with a radiant in Phoenix also occurs in July; this shower is referred to as the July Phoenicids.\n"}
{"id": "14201057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14201057", "title": "Pro Wrestling Superstar Retsuden", "text": "Pro Wrestling Superstar Retsuden\n\nThe manga is billed as a series of biographical stories, though elements were added for dramatic effect. The wrestlers profiled in the series were popular in Japan at the time of the manga's serialization.\n\n"}
{"id": "38133235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38133235", "title": "Round-robin letter", "text": "Round-robin letter\n\nA round-robin letter or Christmas letter is a letter, typically included with a Christmas card and sent to multiple recipients at the end of the year, in which the writer describes the year's events for himself and/or his family.\n\nThe round-robin letter has been the subject of much ridicule, particularly from the \"Guardian\" journalist Simon Hoggart, who compiled examples of the genre in his newspaper column, as well as writing the book \"The Hamster That Loved Puccini: The Seven Modern Sins of Christmas Round-robin Letters\". One example Hoggart cited read:\nCritics have drawn attention to a number of typical negative characteristics of the letters, including the airbrushing of bad news, the \"excruciating\" level of banal detail, and the implied egocentricity and boastfulness of the sender.\n\nThe survival of the tradition in the face of such criticism has been termed \"heroic\". \n"}
{"id": "32387406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32387406", "title": "Sam Johnson (activist)", "text": "Sam Johnson (activist)\n\nSam Johnson (born 14 February 1989) is a prominent social entrepreneur from Christchurch, New Zealand. Johnson is known as the founder of the Student Volunteer Army which mobilised 11,000 students to assist the cleanup following the Christchurch earthquakes and has continued as a nationwide volunteering movement\n\nJohnson is an international thought leader in developing models of community that build resilience through volunteering and local action. \n\nJohnson is from rural Canterbury and was educated at Christ's College and the University of Canterbury in New Zealand. Johnson graduated from the University of Canterbury with a BA in Politics and Community Engagement in 2015. \n\nFollowing the 2010 and 2011 earthquakes, Johnson founded the Student Volunteer Army to assist residents with the clean up of liquefaction caused by the earthquakes. The Student Volunteer Army was managed by a core team of 15 people and a wider administration of 70 people who managed the three core operations which the SVA focused on; battalions, squadrons and street teams. There were 13,000 students volunteering per week. \n\nIn late April and early May 2011, Johnson spent two weeks in Japan following the Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami to set up a Student Volunteer Army at Waseda University.\n\nJohnson worked to assist mobilising young Nepalese volunteers following the Nepal earthquakes in 2015.\n\nJohnson and the Student Volunteer Army worked with other young people alongside the UNISDR in preparation for 3rd World Conference on Disaster Risk Reduction. \n\nJohnson successfully stood for the Riccarton-Wigram Community Board of the Christchurch City Council in the October 2010 local body elections. At the time, he was endorsed by Prime Minister John Key for his election campaign. \n\nJohnson declared in July 2011 that he had no intention to run for higher public office in the near future. In January 2013, it was reported that he may consider running for Christchurch City Council in the October 2013 local body elections. \"The Press\" reported on 20 April 2013 that Lianne Dalziel would challenge Bob Parker for the Christchurch mayoralty, and that she had asked Johnson to be her running mate, with a view of Johnson becoming deputy mayor. Johnson eventually decided against running, saying it wasn't the \"right thing for me right now\".\n\nJohnson is a founding Trustee of the Ministry of Awesome, a Christchurch-based idea incubator. \n\nIn 2016, Johnson launched a social enterprise focused on the alarming rates of social isolation in New Zealand which then joined forces with technology platform Mycare to improve the New Zealand care and support sector.\n\nJohnson has received a Special Leadership Award from the Sir Peter Blake Trust and was named Young New Zealander of the Year and Public Relations Institute of New Zealand (PRINZ) Communicator of the Year in 2012. \n\nJohnson and the Student Volunteer Army have hosted many international icons and celebrities who visit Christchurch including several members of the British Royal Family, the 14th Dalai Lama of Tibet and organisers of the Never Again MSD gun control campaign. \n\n"}
{"id": "865689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=865689", "title": "Senate Report on Pre-war Intelligence on Iraq", "text": "Senate Report on Pre-war Intelligence on Iraq\n\nThe Senate Report on Iraqi WMD Intelligence (formally, the \"Report of the Select Committee on Intelligence on the U.S. Intelligence Community's Prewar Intelligence Assessments on Iraq\") was the report by the United States Senate Select Committee on Intelligence concerning the U.S. intelligence community's assessments of Iraq during the time leading up to the 2003 invasion of Iraq. The report, which was released on July 9, 2004, identified numerous failures in the intelligence-gathering and -analysis process. The report found that these failures led to the creation of inaccurate materials that misled both government policy makers and the American public.\n\nThe Committee's nine Republicans and eight Democrats agreed on the report's major conclusions and unanimously endorsed its findings. They disagreed, though, on the impact that statements on Iraq by senior members of the Bush administration had on the intelligence process. The second phase of the investigation, addressing the way senior policymakers used the intelligence, was published on May 25, 2007. Portions of the phase II report not released at that time include the review of public statements by U.S. government leaders prior to the war, and the assessment of the activities of Douglas Feith and the Pentagon's Office of Special Plans.\n\nAfter the 1991 Gulf War, Iraq agreed to destroy its stockpiles of weapons of mass destruction (WMD) and dismantle its WMD programs. To verify compliance, UN inspection teams were to be given free access to the country. Over the next seven years, inspectors sometimes complained about non-cooperation and evasiveness by the Iraqi government. Iraqi officials in turn complained that some weapons inspectors were acting as spies for foreign intelligence agencies. In 1998, after a critical report on the Iraqi government's noncompliance was issued by UN weapons inspector Richard Butler, U.S. President Bill Clinton announced that he would launch airstrikes on Iraqi targets (see Operation Desert Fox). Butler evacuated his inspectors and the bombing proceeded. After the bombing campaign, Iraq refused to allow weapons inspectors to re-enter the country.\n\nAfter George W. Bush became president in January 2001, and especially after the September 11 attacks, the U.S. government increased its attention on Iraq. In the first half of 2002, a series of public statements by President Bush and senior members of his administration indicated a willingness to use force, if necessary, to remove Saddam Hussein from power. On October 1, 2002, the CIA delivered a classified National Intelligence Estimate (NIE) assessing the threat represented by Iraq's WMD activities. Three days later, CIA Director George Tenet published an unclassified white paper on the subject of Iraq's WMD capabilities. Over the next two weeks, a joint resolution authorizing the use of force was passed by both houses of Congress.\n\nOver the next several months the U.S. conducted a diplomatic effort at the United Nations, seeking to obtain that body's approval for a new WMD inspection regime, and, potentially, for the use of force to overthrow the Iraqi government. The UN Security Council passed resolution 1441 on November 8, 2002, calling on Iraq to make \"an accurate full, final, and complete disclosure\" of its WMD programs, and threatening \"serious consequences\" if it did not comply. In the wake of resolution 1441, Iraq allowed UN weapons inspectors to return to the country. While the inspections were taking place, the U.S. continued to lobby the members of the UN Security Council to pass a resolution explicitly authorizing the use of force against Iraq. As part of that effort U.S. Secretary of State Colin Powell gave a presentation to the UN on February 5, 2003, in which he detailed false intelligence gatherings provided by the Israeli government regarding Iraqi WMD. The USA was faced with the opposition of a majority of the Security Council's members, including Germany, France, and Russia, and afterwards abandoned the effort to obtain an explicit use-of-force authorization from the UN.\n\nOn March 20, 2003, the U.S. and its allies invaded Iraq, an action that led to the overthrow of the government of Saddam Hussein.\n\nOver the ensuing year, U.S. and allied forces searched for evidence supporting the pre-invasion claims about Iraqi WMD stockpiles and programs. The lead role in this search was played by the Iraq Survey Group (ISG), consisting of investigators from the U.S. Department of Defense and the CIA. Although scattered remnants of Iraq's WMD stockpiles from the time of the 1991 Gulf War were found, the ISG's final report concluded that Iraq did not possess significant WMD capabilities at the time of the invasion Iraq. The ISG also stated that Iraq had intended to restart all banned weapons programs as soon as multilateral sanctions against it had been dropped.\n\nAs these facts were emerging in June 2003, U.S. Senator Pat Roberts (R-KS), chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, announced that the Committee, as part of its regular oversight responsibility, would conduct a \"thorough and bipartisan review\" of Iraqi WMD and ties to terrorist groups. On June 20, 2003, Senator Roberts and Senator John D. Rockefeller IV (D-WV), the Committee's vice chairman, issued a joint press release announcing that the committee would conduct a detailed review of the Iraqi WMD intelligence process, including the following areas:\n\n\nThe following nine Republicans were members of the Committee at the time the investigation was launched: Committee Chairman C. Patrick Roberts (R-KS), Orrin G. Hatch (R-UT), R. Michael DeWine (R-OH), Christopher S. \"Kit\" Bond (R-MO), C. Trent Lott (R-MS), Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME), Charles Hagel (R-NE), C. Saxby Chambliss (R-GA), and John W. Warner (R-VA).\n\nThe following eight Democrats made up the rest of the Committee: Vice-Chairman John D. \"Jay\" Rockefeller IV (D-WV), Carl Levin (D-MI), Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Ronald L. Wyden (D-OR), Richard J. Durbin (D-IL), B. Evans \"Evan\" Bayh III (D-IN), Johnny R. \"John\" Edwards (D-NC), and Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD).\n\nIn the course of the investigation, Committee staff reviewed more than 30,000 pages of documentation provided by the intelligence community. The Committee requested that it be supplied copies of the President's Daily Briefs (PDBs) concerning Iraq's WMD capabilities and ties to terrorism, but the White House denied that request. An article by journalist Murray Waas has described a specific controversy over the PDB for September 21, 2001, which allegedly said that the US intelligence community had \"no evidence\" linking Saddam Hussein to the September 11 attacks, and \"scant credible evidence\" that Iraq had any significant collaborative ties with al Qaeda.\n\nCommittee staff also interviewed more than 200 people, including intelligence analysts and senior officials with the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), Defense Intelligence Agency, the Department of Defense, and other federal entities involved in intelligence gathering and analysis. The Committee also held a series of hearings on the intelligence concerning Iraqi WMD and ties to terrorism.\n\nOn February 12, 2004, Senators Roberts and Rockefeller announced an expansion of the scope of the investigation. The new elements added to the investigation were:\n\n\nOn June 17, 2004, Senators Roberts and Rockefeller announced that the completed report had been unanimously approved by the Committee's members, and that they were working with the CIA on the issue of declassification. The completed report, with blacked-out text (\"redactions\") made by the CIA, was released on July 9, 2004. The report did not cover most of the new topics announced in the February 12, 2004, press release; instead, those topics were now to be covered in a separate report, to be completed later, covering \"phase two\" of the investigation.\n\nThe 511-page report focuses much of its attention on the October, 2002, classified National Intelligence Estimate (NIE) titled \"Iraq's Continuing Programs for Weapons of Mass Destruction\". The report includes 117 formal conclusions, as well as supporting discussion and background information.\n\nThe report's first conclusion points to widespread flaws in the October 2002 NIE, and attributes those flaws to failure by analysts in the intelligence community:\n\nSubsequent conclusions fault the intelligence community for failing to adequately explain to policymakers the uncertainties that underlay the NIE's conclusions, and for succumbing to \"group think,\" in which the intelligence community adopted untested (and, in hindsight, unwarranted) assumptions about the extent of Iraq's WMD stockpiles and programs. The committee identified a failure to adequately supervise analysts and collectors, and a failure to develop human sources of intelligence (HUMINT) inside Iraq after the departure of international weapons inspectors in 1998. It also cited the post-9/11 environment as having led to an increase in the intensity with which policymakers review and question threat information.\n\nSection II of the report discussed the handling of intelligence indicating that Iraq might be attempting to purchase uranium from Niger. The report examined the role played by former ambassador Joseph Wilson in investigating the issue, and the way Wilson's assessment was communicated within the intelligence community. It also discusses the process whereby references to Iraq's uranium-procurement efforts were removed from some speeches at the behest of intelligence officials, but left in President Bush's 2003 State of the Union address. The report concludes that prior to October, 2002, it was reasonable for the intelligence community to assess Iraq may have been attempting to obtain uranium from Africa.\nSection III of the report discusses assessments of Iraq's domestic nuclear program. It focuses a significant amount of attention on the intelligence process that took place in the spring of 2001 regarding Iraq's attempts to purchase 60,000 high-strength aluminum tubes. The CIA concluded that the tubes could be intended for constructing centrifuges for a uranium-enrichment program (i.e., for a restarted Iraqi nuclear weapons program); analysts in the Department of Energy and the Department of Defense considered that to be unlikely.\n\nThe October 2002 NIE stated that Iraq appeared to be reconstituting its nuclear weapons program. The Committee's report concluded that this view was not supported by the underlying intelligence, and the report agreed with the opinion of the State Department's Bureau of Intelligence and Research, expressed as an \"alternative view\" in the NIE, that the available intelligence did not make \"a compelling case for reconstitution\" of the Iraqi nuclear program. The committee reached several conclusions critical of poor communications between the CIA and other parts of the intelligence community concerning this issue.\n\nThe sections of the report concerned with assessments of Iraq's biological weapons programs, chemical weapons programs, and delivery systems contain extensive discussion of the problem of inadequate \"human intelligence\" for intelligence gathering in Iraq. There is discussion of \"CURVEBALL,\" an Iraqi defector who provided much of the information regarding Iraq's alleged mobile bioweapons labs, although much of the material in this part of the report has been redacted. The report concludes that the October 2002 NIE and other statements regarding Iraq's biological and chemical WMD and associated delivery systems were for the most part not supported by the underlying intelligence data supplied to the Committee.\n\nCommittee Chairman Pat Roberts told NBC's Tim Russert that \"Curveball really provided 98 percent of the assessment as to whether or not the Iraqis had a biological weapon.\" This was in despite the fact that \"nobody inside the U.S. government had ever actually spoken to the informant—except [for a single] Pentagon analyst, who concluded the man was an alcoholic and utterly useless as a source.\"\n\nAfter learning the intelligence provided by Curveball was going to be used as the \"backbone\" of the case for war, the Pentagon analyst wrote a letter to the CIA expressing his concerns. The Deputy of the CIA Counter Proliferation Unit quickly responded by saying:\n\n\"Let's keep in mind the fact that this war's going to happen regardless of what Curve Ball said or didn't say. The Powers That Be probably aren't terribly interested in whether Curve Ball knows what he's talking about.\"\n\nOne area where the Committee found that the intelligence community's reporting accurately reflected the underlying intelligence concerned Iraq's retention of Scud-type ballistic missiles, and its development of new types of short- and medium-range missiles. In the case of the NIE's reporting on Iraq's development of an unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV), however, the Committee found that the reporting generally was not well-supported by the underlying intelligence, and overstated what was known concerning the likelihood that the Iraqi UAVs were intended for use as a delivery means for biological weapons.\n\nSection VII of the Committee's report focuses on the intelligence behind Secretary of State Colin Powell's speech to the UN on February 5, 2003. The report describes the process whereby the CIA provided a draft of the speech to the National Security Council (NSC), and then, at the request of the NSC, worked to expand the speech with additional material, especially regarding Iraq's nuclear program. The report also describes the subsequent review made by Colin Powell and analysts from the State Department with analysts from the CIA. In the speech, Powell said that \"every statement I make today is backed up by sources, solid sources. These are not assertions. What we're giving you are facts and conclusions based on solid intelligence.\" Despite this, the Committee concluded that \"[m]uch of the information provided or cleared by the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) for inclusion in Secretary Powell's speech was overstated, misleading, or incorrect.\"\n\nThe report partially looks at the question of whether pressure was brought to bear on intelligence analysts to get them to shape their assessments to support particular policy objectives. It recounts how Sen. Roberts made repeated public calls for any analysts who believed they had been pressured to alter their assessments to speak with the Committee about their experiences. The Committee also attempted to identify and interview several individuals who had described such pressure in media reports and government documents. The report says that the Committee did not find any evidence that administration officials tried to pressure analysts to change their judgments; however, an evaluation of the Bush Administration's use of intelligence was put off until \"phase two\" of the investigation. (Several Democratic committee members, although they voted to approve the report's conclusions, expressed reservations on this issue and Republicans also acknowledged that the issue of \"pressure\" would be examined during phase two; see below, in the discussion of the report's \"additional views\", for details.)\n\nA white paper titled \"Iraq's Continuing Programs for Weapons of Mass Destruction\" was released by CIA Director George Tenet on October 4, 2002, three days after the National Intelligence Estimate (NIE) on Iraqi WMD was released. In part, the white paper was a response to Congressional requests for an unclassified version of the information in the NIE, since that document was available only to a small group of lawmakers due to its classified nature. The white paper, although shorter and less-detailed than the NIE, was very similar to it in format and major conclusions. The Committee found that the white paper presented a significantly stronger characterization of the threat represented by Iraqi WMD than did the NIE, and that that stronger characterization was not supported by the underlying intelligence.\n\nSeveral sections in the report examine topics relating to allegations of links between Iraq and terrorism. The Committee said that the intelligence community produced reasonable conclusions on this topic, although the Committee found gaps in the intelligence-gathering methods used (Page 350).\n\nMuch of the Committee's investigation in this area concerned the CIA's preparation and distribution of a document titled \"Iraqi Support for Terrorism\". An initial version of this document was distributed to senior Bush administration officials in September, 2002; an updated version of the document was provided to Congress in January, 2003. The conclusion of CIA analysts was that although Saddam Hussein's government had likely had several contacts with al Qaeda during the 1990s, \"those contacts did not add up to an established formal relationship.\" The CIA also attempted to determine the attitudes that Iraqi and al-Qaeda leadership held toward the possibility of working cooperatively with each other. The available intelligence in this area suggested that Iraqi and al-Qaeda leaders would be wary of working together.\n\nThe \"most problematic area of contact between Iraq and al-Qaida were the reports of training in the use of non-conventional weapons, specifically chemical and biological weapons.\" Abu Musab al-Zarqawi had been present in Baghdad, and Ansar al-Islam, an al-Qaeda affiliate organization that identified itself as the \"sworn enemy\" of Saddam Hussein had operated in northeastern Iraq in an area under Kurdish control. There was no evidence proving Iraqi complicity or assistance in an al Qaeda attack. The report criticized the CIA for its lack of human intelligence resources in Iraq to assess the country's ties with terrorism during the time prior to 2002.\n\nIn terms of pressure on analysts, the Committee said that after 9/11, \"analysts were under tremendous pressure to make correct assessments, to avoid missing a credible threat, and to avoid an intelligence failure on the scale of 9/11.\" The Committee concluded that this resulted in assessments that were \"bold and assertive in pointing out potential terrorist links,\" and that this pressure was more the result of analysts' own desire to be as thorough as possible, than of any undue influence by the administration, for which the Committee said they found no evidence. Several Democratic members of the Committee said in the report's \"additional views\" that the question had not been adequately explored.\n\nThe Republican and Democratic members of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence voted unanimously to approve the finished report. There were, however, significant areas of disagreement, with those disagreements being expressed in the form of \"additional views\" attached at the end of the report proper.\n\nIn the first \"additional view\" attached to the report, Chairman Pat Roberts (R-KS), joined by Senators Orrin Hatch (R-UT) and Christopher Bond (R-MO), presents two conclusions that Democratic members of the Committee were unwilling to include in the report, even though, according to Roberts, \"there was no dispute with the underlying facts.\" Those two conclusions related to the actions of Joseph Wilson, the former ambassador who was sent to Niger in 2002 to investigate allegations that the Iraqi government was attempting to purchase \"yellowcake\" uranium, presumably as part of an attempt to revive Iraq's nuclear weapons program. The two conclusions were that the plan to send Wilson to investigate the Niger allegation was suggested by Wilson's wife, a CIA employee, and that in his later public statements criticizing the Bush administration, Wilson included information he had learned from press accounts, misrepresenting it as firsthand knowledge.\n\nThis additional view also discusses the question of pressure on analysts, and recommends caution in implementing reforms in the intelligence community.\n\nSenators John D. Rockefeller (D-WV) (the Committee's vice-chairman), Carl Levin (D-MI), and Richard Durbin (D-IL), used their additional view to say that the report painted an incomplete picture, because the Committee had put off until phase two of the investigation the key question of \"how intelligence on Iraq was used or misused by Administration officials in public statements and reports.\" Because of this, they said, \"the Committee's phase one report fails to fully explain the environment of intense pressure in which Intelligence Community officials were asked to render judgments on matters relating to Iraq when policy officials had already forcefully stated their own conclusions in public.\"\n\nThe third additional view in the report is by Senator Saxby Chambliss (R-GA), with Senators Orrin Hatch (R-UT), Trent Lott (R-MS), Chuck Hagel (R-NE), and Christopher Bond (R-MO). It focuses on the issues of information sharing and Human Intelligence (HUMINT), and rebuts the allegation of \"pressure\" contained in the additional view by Senators Rockefeller, Levin, and Durbin.\n\nSenator Olympia Snow (R-ME) wrote in her additional view that the Committee's report revealed poor management and a lack of accountability in the intelligence community, and she called for strong reforms.\n\nSenator John Warner (R-VA) used his additional view to defend the integrity and professionalism of front-line intelligence analysts, and to emphasize that \"there was no evidence that anyone involved in reaching intelligence judgments for this NIE was subjected to any pressure from their superiors or from policymakers to alter any of their judgments or analyses.\"\n\nThe additional view by Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), was critical of the Bush administration, saying it \"did not fairly represent the intelligence.\"\n\nSenator Ron Wyden (D-OR) was also critical of the Bush administration in his additional view, giving a list of public statements by senior members of the administration that misstated and exaggerated the underlying intelligence on Iraq.\n\nSenator Richard Durbin (D-IL) focused on the need for greater accountability for the intelligence failures identified in the report.\n\nSenator Barbara Mikulski (D-MD) used her additional view to argue for a number of specific structural and procedural reforms in the intelligence community.\n\nAt the time of the report's release (July 9, 2004), Democratic members of the committee expressed the hope that \"phase two\" of the investigation, which was to include an assessment of how the Iraqi WMD intelligence was used by senior policymakers, would be completed quickly. Committee Chairman Pat Roberts (R-KS) said of phase two, \"It is a priority. I made my commitment and it will get done.\"\n\nOn March 10, 2005, during a question-and-answer session after a speech he had given at the Woodrow Wilson Center, Senator Roberts said of the failure to complete phase two, \"[T]hat is basically on the back burner.\" Senator John D. Rockefeller (D-WV), vice chairman of the Committee, made a statement later that day in which he said, \"The Chairman agreed to this investigation and I fully expect him to fulfill his commitment... While the completion of phase two is long overdue, the committee has continued this important work, and I expect that we will finish the review in the very near future.\"\n\nIn a statement regarding the release of the report of the presidential WMD commission on March 31, 2005, Senator Roberts wrote, \"I don't think there should be any doubt that we have now heard it all regarding prewar intelligence. I think that it would be a monumental waste of time to replow this ground any further.\"\n\nOn April 10, 2005, Senators Roberts and Rockefeller appeared together on NBC's Meet the Press program. In response to a question about the completion of phase two of the investigation, Roberts said, \"I'm perfectly willing to do it, and that's what we agreed to do, and that door is still open. And I don't want to quarrel with Jay, because we both agreed that we would get it done. But we do have--we have Ambassador Negroponte next week, we have General Mike Hayden next week. We have other hot-spot hearings or other things going on that are very important.\"\n\nModerator Tim Russert then asked Senator Rockefeller if he believed phase two would be completed, and he replied, \"I hope so. Pat and I have agreed to do it. We've shaken hands on it, and we agreed to do it after the elections so it wouldn't be any sort of sense of a political attack. I mean that was my view; it shouldn't be viewed that way.\"\n\nOn August 2, 2005, Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) released the text of a letter she had sent to Senator Roberts, saying, in part, \"I am increasingly dismayed by the delay in completing the Committee's 'Phase II' investigation into intelligence prior to the Iraq War... I stand ready to participate in this investigation in any way possible.\"\n\nOn November 1, 2005, Senator Harry Reid (D-NV), the Senate minority leader, invoked a seldom-used provision of the Senate rules to place the body in a closed session. During a three-and-a-half hour discussion, agreement was reached on the creation of a six-member Senate panel to report by November 14 on \"the intelligence committee's progress of the phase two review of the prewar intelligence and its schedule for completion.\"\n\nOn April 26, 2006, an article by journalist Alexander Bolton in the Congressional journal \"The Hill\" reported that Committee Chairman Pat Roberts (R-KS) was seeking to further divide the phase two report. Under Roberts' new approach, the following components of the report would be released relatively quickly: pre-war intelligence assessments of post-war Iraq, postwar findings in Iraq regarding WMD and ties to terrorism, and the use by US intelligence of information supplied by the Iraqi National Congress. Two components of the report would be delayed: whether public statements before the war by senior government officials were supported by the underlying intelligence, and the role played by the Department of Defense's Office of Special Plans in developing the prewar intelligence.\n\nA September 7, 2006, article by journalist Jonathon Weisman in the \"Washington Post\" reported that the part of the phase two report comparing the Bush administration's public statements about Saddam Hussein with the evidence senior officials reviewed in private would not be released before the November 2006 election.\n\nTwo volumes of the phase II report were released on September 8, 2006: \"Postwar Findings about Iraq's WMD Programs and Links to Terrorism and How they Compare with Prewar Assessments\" and \"The Use by the Intelligence Community of Information Provided by the Iraqi National Congress.\"\n\nAfter Democrats gained a majority in the Senate during the 2006 midterm election, chairmanship of the committee passed to Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV). The former chair, Sen. Pat Roberts (R-KS) left the committee; the ranking Republican and vice chairman of the committee is now Sen. Kit Bond (R-MO).\n\nOn May 25, 2007, the committee released a volume of the phase II report titled, \"Prewar Intelligence Assessments About Postwar Iraq\". This volume of the report includes seven pages of conclusions regarding assessments provided by the intelligence community to U.S. government leaders prior to the Iraq war. The report concludes that the intelligence community had assessed that establishing a stable government in Iraq would be a \"long, difficult, and probably turbulent challenge,\" that Iraqi society was deeply divided and would engage in violent conflict unless an occupying power took steps to prevent it, and that the war would increase the threat of terrorism, at least temporarily. The intelligence community also assessed that a U.S. defeat and occupation of Iraq would lead to a surge in political Islam and increased funding for terrorist groups, and that the war would not cause other countries in the region to abandon their WMD programs.\n\nThis volume of the report includes an appendix containing two previously classified reports by the National Intelligence Council (NIC) titled, \"Regional Consequences of Regime Change in Iraq\" and \"Principal Challenges in Post-Saddam Iraq\", as well as a long list of recipients within the government of NIC assessments on Iraq. The appendix also contains a number of \"Additional Views\" in which different members of the committee comment on the history of the committee's work in this area, and criticize what they characterize as the politicization of that work by members of the other party.\n\nPhase II of the report was publicly released on Thursday June 5, 2008 whether statements by US Government officials were substantiated by intelligence reports.\n\nThis was a bi-partisan majority report (10-5) and \"details inappropriate, sensitive intelligence activities conducted by the DoD's Office of the Undersecretary of Defense for Policy, without the knowledge of the Intelligence Community or the State Department.\" It concludes that the US Administration \"repeatedly presented intelligence as fact when in reality it was unsubstantiated, contradicted, or even non-existent. As a result, the American people were led to believe that the threat from Iraq was much greater than actually existed.\" These included President Bush's statements of a partnership between Iraq and Al Qa'ida, that Saddam Hussein was preparing to give weapons of mass destruction to terrorist groups, and Iraq's capability to produce chemical weapons.\n\nThe Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, Sen.Jay Rockefeller, stated in press release of report's publication\"It is my belief that the Bush Administration was fixated on Iraq, and used the 9/11 attacks by al Qa'ida as justification for overthrowing Saddam Hussein. To accomplish this, top Administration officials made repeated statements that falsely linked Iraq and al Qa'ida as a single threat and insinuated that Iraq played a role in 9/11. Sadly, the Bush Administration led the nation into war under false pretenses. While the report highlights many of the problems with the intelligence and criticizes the Bush Administration for its handling of the lead up to the war and its reasons for doing so, the report also supports in many cases that claims made by the Bush Administration about Iraq's Weapons of Mass Destruction programs were \"generally substantiated by the intelligence\".\n\n\"There is no question we all relied on flawed intelligence. But, there is a fundamental difference between relying on incorrect intelligence and deliberately painting a picture to the American people that you know is not fully accurate.\"\n\nThe Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, Sen.Jay Rockefeller twice alleged that the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Policy, or its former head Douglas Feith may have engaged in unlawful activities, Phase II of the report \"\"found nothing to substantiate that claim; nothing unlawful about the \"alleged\" rogue intelligence operation in the PCTEG , nothing unlawful about the Office of Special Plans, and nothing unlawful about the so-called failure to inform Congress of alleged intelligence activities.\"\" The previous year, the chairman released a press statement claiming that it appeared that the office's were \"not in compliance with the law.\" Yet, rather than pursue these allegations, Rockfeller decided to pursue an issue unrelated to the intelligence, and unrelated to Iraq. He pursued and inquiry of an exploratory meeting held in Rome in 2001 between two DOD officials and two Iranians. Writing for the Minority Opinion as part of the report it was stated that \"\"After four years of making unsubstantiated allegations of unlawful activities, the calculus appears to be that proclamations of \"inappropriate\" behavior will generate the desired headlines focusing only on the caustic words, rather than the lack of substance behind them. We hope that these additional views will help redirect that focus to the evidence, or lack thereof.\"\"\n\nDespite House Speaker Nancy Pelosi's telling her caucus members \"that impeachment is off the table; she is not interested in pursuing it,\" Dennis Kucinich D-Ohio introduced a formal resolution to the House of Representatives in an attempt to impeach President George W. Bush from the White House. House Democrats unanimously voted to send it to a committee; a maneuver that essentially killed Kucinich's efforts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1722447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1722447", "title": "The Governator", "text": "The Governator\n\nThe Governator was a planned superhero franchise for children developed and produced by Stan Lee and co-developed with Arnold Schwarzenegger.\n\n\"The Governator\" was first announced via \"Entertainment Weekly\" with Lee co-developing into an animated TV series and comic book on March 30, 2011 with the comic book title coming out first in 2012. Schwarzenegger announced his return to acting at a press conference in MipTV in Cannes with a series trailer with the addition of a game and 3D animated film to the project. Lee was developing the series alongside Andy and Amy Heyward of A Squared Entertainment. German-based Your Family Entertainment was handling the world sales rights. The comic book series was planned to be published under the Stan Lee Comics joint venture.\n\nOn May 20, 2011, A Squared Entertainment announced that production of \"The Governator\" was halted in the wake of Schwarzenegger's infidelity scandal.\n\n\"The Governator\" featured a fictionalized Schwarzenegger who after stepping down from his role as Governor of California became a superhero in order to fight crime. His real-life family and Brentwood home would have fictional counterparts with the home having an Arnold Cave under it as a base of operations. To assist in crime fighting, the cave would have high tech vehicles, super suits, gym and a group of sidekicks. One sidekick is his cyber security expert, Zeke Muckerberg, a teenage computer genius. The Govenator would go up against G.I.R.L.I.E. Men (Gangsters Imposters Racketeers Liars & Irredeemable Ex-cons), his recurring supervillains. A recurring character shown in the trailer is an investigative reporter, voiced by Larry King.\n\n"}
{"id": "39758693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39758693", "title": "Tolkienmoot", "text": "Tolkienmoot\n\nTolkienmoot (also advertised as Tolkien Moot and TolkienMoot (camel case)) originally began under the name of Merpcon in 2005. Always a convention focused on J.R.R. Tolkien and gaming in Middle-earth, as the venue expanded to include a broader array of game systems, guest speakers, and special events, it was decided to change the title to Tolkienmoot in 2009. The convention was founded, and continuous to be funded and run by Hawke Robinson, founder of the Inland Empire Eä Tolkien Society an official Smial of the U.K. Tolkien Society, RPG Research, Other Minds Magazine, Middle-earth Radio, Middle-earth Talk, Eä RPG, and other endeavours, as well as an active member of CAR-PGa (Committee for the Advancement of Role-Playing Games website), WSTRA (Washington State Therapeutic Recreation Association website), and others.\n\nTolkienmoot is a convention dedicated to fans of J.R.R. Tolkien's Middle-earth and beyond (Numenor, Arda, and all of Eä), with an emphasis on role-playing games using this setting. The event is held annually, usually during the summer months, in Spokane, Washington, USA, typically spanning from 3 to 5 days.\n\nTo date the convention remains open and free to the public, but has limited seating, so generally provides a first-come, first-served, RSVP system, though walk-ins are welcome, and plenty of seating is available for the guest speaker session, participants cannot be guaranteed a seat to participate in the games without a reservation in advance.\n\nThe first event began with MerpCon I in 2005, transitioning to Tolkienmoot in 2009, and continuing each year. As of 2015, Tolkien Moot takes place annually for 3+ days on the third weekend of July.\n\nThe event is focused on J.R.R. Tolkien and his works, with a special emphasis on gaming, especially tabletop paper and dice Role playing games, using any role playing game system adapted or created for play in Middle-earth or any aspect of Tolkien's universe (Middle-earth, Endor, Arda or Eä depending on how broadly one's perspective is regarding the related works).\n\nDuring the event, the Tolkienmoot website also enables remote participation, by providing the live webcams, streaming audio and video, and live real time chat rooms (using Internet Relay Chat), Skype, Google+ and similar technologies, interacting with the games, and especially with guest speakers by submitting questions and answers, in a very interactive format.\n\nA number of MerpCon / Tolkienmoot guest speakers have been at each event, including noted Tolkien scholars, doctors, professors, and published authors. More detailed information is provided on the \"Guest Speakers Biographies\" page.\n\nGuest speakers to date include:\n\nSffandom has created a compilation of many Merpcon and Tolkienmoot guest speaker videos and broadcasts.\n\nSee the listing for Merpcon for details on the events, campaigns, and other details from 2005 through 2008.\n\nMerpCon V also named Tolkienmoot 2009 was once again held in Spokane, WA, USA. \nThere was no specific theme that year.\nGame systems included Iron Crown Enterprises MERP, a Dungeons & Dragons 3.5 variant known as Ea RPG d20, and Harnmaster adapted for use in Middle-earth. Game Campaign authors included:\n\nCampaign Game Masters included the above authors plus:\n\nTolkienmoot VI (2010) was held in Spokane, Washington, United States with a more expanded Tolkien-related venue. The theme that year was \"Elves\". \nBesides Tolkien-based role playing games using systems such as ICE MERP, Harnmaster, Ea d20 RPG, GURPS, BRP, and others, there were other Tolkien-based activities including:\n\n\"Hobbit Enthusiasts Converge on Spokane.\"\n\nTolkienmoot VII (2011) will also be held July 15–17 in Spokane, WA, USA, and simulcast online with participants engaged through real time chat, streaming audio, and streaming video. 2011 will be a smaller convention than previously as resources are being dedicated to a larger MerpCon/Tolkienmoot in 2012 attempting to take the convention to \"the next level\" further expanding the venue, but always keeping the root gaming in Tolkien-inspired settings.\nThe paper \"Tolkien's Love of Trees and the Envirohnment\" was first read and discussed at this moot, and later also read and discussed by the U.K. Tolkien Society at their annual Seminar series.\nThe Theme for Tolkienmoot 2011 was \"Trees\".\nThe special broadcast guest speaker and talk show segments will be earlier in the day so that more online participants from Europe and elsewhere will not have to be up at 2:00 am their time to participate.\n\nTolkienMoot VIII (2012) held July 13–15.\nThe theme was \"Hobbits\".\nThe campaign was \"The Wandering Days\" set in Third Age 1150 between The Misty Mountains and Mirkwood.\nThe guest speaker was Brian Huseland of the Eä Tolkien Society.\n\nTolkien Moot IX (2013) August 2–4.\nThe theme was the Dunedain of the North.\nThe primary campaign was \"The Palantir of Amon Sul\", though one table ran Iron Crown Enterprises MERP modules \"Trolls of the Misty Mountains\".\nRPG Game Systems: TOR RPG, ICE MERP, GURPS, Savage Worlds, Ea d20 3.5.\nThe guest speakers were:\n\nTolkien Moot X (2014) August 8–10.\nTheme: No theme this year, each Game Master created their own campaign and characters. \nThere was noted a significant reduction in comments regarding the shared experience in conversation between the different tables this year compared to the years that all had the same adventure setting. \nAs per requests from the participants, future Moots will resume having themes and providing shared adventures.\nRPG Game systems: Cubicle 7's The One Ring Roleplaying Game (TOR RPG), ICE's MERP, GURPS for Middle-earth, and Ea d20 (D&D 3.5 for Middle-earth).\nThe Ea Tolkien Society, an official Smial of the U.K. Tolkien Society, provided the main broadcast and presentation topics.\nFuture Moots will be on a more standardized schedule, the 3rd weekend of each July.\n\nTolkien Moot XI (2015) (July 17, 18, & 19)\nAll future Moots are planned on the third weekend of July.\nTheme: Giant Creatures of Middle-earth.\nSpecial Guests:\nOnce again key events will be broadcast over Google+ Hangout and YouTube. Members will be participating from the U.K. USA, Finland, and elsewhere.\nRPG Game Systems: TOR RPG, ICE MERP, GURPS, Savage Worlds, Ea d20 3.5\nVideo Game Consoles & PCs running Tolkien-related games: Ps/2, PS/4, Wii, PC.\nBoard Games: The Hobbit, Battle for Middle-earth\nLive-Action Role-Playing: Middle-earth: Scenario provided by Stormhaven Amtgard LARP member(s) from Spokane area.\n\nTolkien Moot XII (2016) (July 15, 16, & 17)\nTheme: The Undead in Middle-earth\nSpecial Guests: (Pending confirmations):\nRPG Game Systems: \nVideo Game Consoles & PCs running Tolkien-related games: \nBoard Games: \nLive-Action Role-Playing in Middle-earth:\n\nSome of the campaigns over the years have been released incrementally with issues of Other Minds Magazine, or on the Ea RPG website, the website also has a section dedicated to the Númenor Project.\n\nBoth on site and online attendance numbers have continued to increase over each year.\n\nDifferent approaches to the guest speaker segments have been used. The opening speaking session is typically presented by the convention founder, with a \"state of the union\" discussion about the current state of Tolkien fandom, role-playing gaming community & industry, and the RPG Research project updates. Other sessions have sometimes been in a format called \"Raw Hobbit\", hosted by Tolkien essayist and author Michael Martinez as an homage to William Shatner's Raw Nerve talk show. Other sessions have included the interactive \"Tolkien Youth Panel\", while still other sessions generally include notable guest speakers (see list) with local and online audience participation in follow-up Q&A. The final sessions often overlap with episodes of Middle-earth Talk Radio as a live broadcast from the third day of the event with live audience participation both locally and online.\n\nThe founders of Tolkienmoot are also the founders of an official smial of the U.K. Tolkien Society, known as the Eä Tolkien Society based in Spokane, WA, USA.\n\nTolkienmoot has always been intended to support multiple game systems set in Middle-earth (and beyond).\n\nThere are several other role playing gaming systems that have been under independent unofficial development and/or release for several years now, including:\n\nThere are many projects that have adapted existing game systems to better fit into Middle-earth ranging from the early years of Dungeons & Dragons, GURPS, and Runequest, to other systems that many claim are already meant indirectly for Middle-earth gaming, such as Harnmaster. Luke Crane's Burning Wheel system is reputedly also fitting for role playing in Middle Earth. The system includes rules for playing non-humanoid creatures that were nonetheless given an (often maligned) intellect within the professor's universe such as Wolves and Great Spiders.\n\nTolkienmoot supports many role-playing game systems due to multiple game masters and a greater variety of participants' gaming background interests. A lot of the renewed interest may be due to the earlier releases of Peter Jackson's \"The Lord of the Rings\" film trilogy, causing a revival of interest in role playing in J.R.R. Tolkien's Middle-earth, and the current releases of PJ's The Hobbit movies.\n\nGame systems now supported include:\n\nSo far Tolkienmoot is the only regular convention dedicated primarily or exclusively to role-playing gaming in J.R.R. Tolkien's world. There are a few other gaming conventions past, present, and planned in the near future that sometimes host a role-playing gaming session with a campaign set in Middle-earth in their events, usually just a room or small area.\n\nThe other conventions that have some Tolkien related gaming may sometimes include:\n\n"}
{"id": "22787802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22787802", "title": "Tramlines Festival", "text": "Tramlines Festival\n\nThe Tramlines Festival is an annual music festival held in Sheffield. The festival was originally free to attend, but now requires tickets. The line-up consists of national and local artists. The festival is curated and organised by a panel comprising local venue owners, promoters and volunteers. The name of the festival is inspired by the city's tram network. Tramlines held its first festival in 2009, which attracted 35,000 fans and was seen as a huge success, and 2010's event doubled that figure. The success of Tramlines Festival 2011 led to the event winning 'Best Metropolitan Festival' at the UK Festival Awards.\n\nThe festival took place at over 70 venues and 4 main stages in the city centre, including Devonshire Green, The Leadmill, The Viper Rooms, The Fat Cat, O2 Academy Sheffield, Barkers Pool, The University of Sheffield, The Harley, The Bowery, the Peace Gardens, Yellow Arch and the main stage at Ponderosa Park with a capacity of 8,000 until 2017. In January 2018 it was announced that the festival would be moving out of the city centre to a new venue in Hillsborough Park, Sheffield and would consist of four stages including a main stage and that the new venue will allow the capacity at the main stage to be around 40,000.\n\nTramlines held its first festival in 2009. Notable artists such as Rolo Tomassi, Just Jack, Toddla T, Pixie Lott, Little Boots, Example, The Eighties Matchbox B-Line Disaster, The XX and Reverend and the Makers, who headlined, played at the festival. The festival was a huge success, attracting 35,000 fans. The organizers, as well as councillors and Sheffielders, praised the festival. The festivals popularity, along with positive reviews, led to the 2010 event being announced. The festival-goers had to queue to get wristbands, which gave them access to the different stages.\n\n2009's festival recycled 400 litres of paper, 2080 litres of plastic and 560 litres of aluminium in the outdoor venues alone. This led to an environmental campaign in 2010 in which the festival seeks to reduce its environmental impact.\n\nTramlines Festival 2010 was held from 23 to 25 July. 250 artists performed, and several venues were added, including Sheffield University's Octagon Centre, Tudor Square, The Leadmill, O2 Academy Sheffield, Winter Gardens and the main stage at Devonshire Green increased in capacity from 5,000 to 8,000. Headliners were Echo and the Bunnymen, Mystery Jets, Simian Mobile Disco DJ set, Professor Green, Tinchy Stryder, Future of the Left, Darwin Deez, Macka B, The King Blues, The Hoosiers, Craig David, Dum Dum Girls, Annie Mac and Toddla T.\n\nThe festival remained free, and the wristband system was scrapped, replaced with a first-come-first-served turnstile system. The festival attracted 65,000 people. New events at the 2010 festival included a Youth Music Festival, Blues trail and a Ceilidh.\n\nThe festival also focussed on reducing its environmental impact in 2010. This pledge included a solar powered headphone disco on Devonshire Green, major recycling areas at all of the outdoor stages, and cheap accommodation via Unite.\n\nTramlines 2011 took place from 22 to 24 July, with an estimated 175,000 revellers in attendance. Over 70 venues took part, with 4 main stages and at least 200 live acts. Headliners and other notable acts included Ash, Olly Murs, Pixie Lott, The Futureheads, Heaven 17, Dananananaykroyd, David Rodigan, Dry The River, Michael Prophet, Frankie & The Heartstrings, Los Campesinos!, Rolo Tomassi, Dead Sons, Skint & Demoralised, The Crookes and Toddla T. New additions were made to the festival, including 'The Folk Forest', a folk music event taking place in Endcliffe Park, 1.5 miles from the city centre.\n\nTramlines 2012 took place on Friday 20 July to Sunday 22 July. Headliners included Reverend & The Makers, Roots Manuva and We Are Scientists, with Spector, Ms Dynamite, Mr Scruff, Julio Bashmore, Toddla T, Koreless, Ifan Daffyd, Clock Opera and Dead Sons also playing over the weekend, amongst others. Weston Park hosted a stage for the first time in the festival's history.\n\nTramlines 2013, took place from Friday 19th to Sunday 21 July. For the first time in the history of the festival, an entry fee was charged at £6 per day, though the event retained a large free fringe element.\n\nThe main headlining acts were Katy B, Public Enemy, The Cribs and Annie Mac. The fee was increased to £12 per day, and early bird tickets were available in advance at £28 for all three days.\n\nTramlines 2015 took place on Friday 24th to Sunday 26 July. The main stage moved from Devonshire Green to Ponderosa Park to increase the venue capacity. Tickets cost £30 for the weekend. Headliners included The Charlatans, Basement Jaxx, and Buzzcocks.\n\nTramlines 2016 took place on Friday 22nd to Sunday 24 July. Headliners included Dizzee Rascal and Catfish and the Bottlemen.\n\nTramlines 2017 ran from Friday 21st July 2017 to Sunday 23rd July 2017. Headliners included The Libertines, Metronomy, Primal Scream, The Coral, Kano and All Saints. 2017 also saw the return of the Devonshire Green stage, alongside the Ponderosa Park stage and The Folk Forest.\nTramlines 2018 ran from 20th July 2018 until 22nd July at Hillsborough Park. Tickets were sold in six tiers with the first and second tier being sold out within days. Weekend admission tickets to Hillsborough Park cost £79. The line up consists of Stereophonics, Noel Gallagher’s High Flying Birds and Craig David’s TS5 as well as other acts including Stefflon Don, Mabel, Blossoms, De La Soul, Jake Bugg, Clean Bandit, Everything Everything, Mystery Jets, Shed Seven, Milburn, Reverend And The Makers\n\n"}
{"id": "4272877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4272877", "title": "Typhoons in the Philippines", "text": "Typhoons in the Philippines\n\nApproximately twenty tropical cyclones enter the Philippine Area of Responsibility yearly, an area which incorporates parts of the Pacific Ocean, South China Sea and the Philippine Archipelago (with the exception of Tawi-Tawi province). Among these cyclones, ten will be typhoons, with five having the potential to be destructive ones. The Philippines is \"the most exposed country in the world to tropical storms\" according to a Time Magazine article in 2013. In the Philippine languages, typhoons are called \"bagyo\".\n\nTyphoons can hit the Philippines any time of year, with the months of June to September being most active, with August being the most active individual month and May the least active. Typhoons move east to west across the country, heading north as they go. Storms most frequently make landfall on the islands of Eastern Visayas, Bicol region, and northern Luzon whereas the southern island and region of Mindanao is largely free of typhoons.\n\nThe deadliest overall tropical cyclone to impact the Philippines is believed to have been the Haiphong typhoon which is estimated to have killed up to 20,000 people as it passed over the country in September 1881. In modern meteorological records, the deadliest storm was Typhoon Yolanda (international name Haiyan), which became the strongest landfalling tropical cyclone ever recorded as it crossed the Visayas in central Philippines on November 7–8, 2013. The wettest known tropical cyclone to impact the archipelago was the July 14–18, 1911 cyclone which dropped over of rainfall within a 3-day, 15-hour period in Baguio. Tropical cyclones usually account for at least 30 percent of the annual rainfall in the northern Philippines while being responsible for less than 10 percent of the annual rainfall in the southern islands. PAGASA Senior Weather Specialist Anthony Lucero told the newsite Rappler that the number of destructive typhoons have increased recently but it is too early to call it a trend.\n\nTropical cyclones entering the Philippine Area of Responsibility are given a local name by the Philippine Atmospheric, Geophysical and Astronomical Services Administration (PAGASA), which also raises public storm signal warnings as deemed necessary.\n\nPreparation and response to typhoons is coordinated by the National Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Council (NDRRMC). Each Philippine province and local government in the Philippines has a corresponding Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Office (DRRMO). Each provincial and local government is required to set aside 5% of its yearly budget for disaster risk reduction, preparations, and response.\n\nThe frequency of typhoons in the Philippines have made the typhoons a significant part of everyday ancient and modern Filipino culture.\n\n\"Bagyo\" (sometimes spelled \"bagyu\") is the word for \"typhoon\" or \"storm\" in most Philippine languages, including Tagalog, Visayan, Ilocano, Bicolano, Hanunó'o, Aklanon, and Pangasinan. It is derived from Proto-Austronesian *baRiuS, meaning \"typhoon\". Cognates in other Austronesian languages include Sama \"baliw\" (\"wind\"), Amis \"faliyos\" or \"farios\" (\"typhoon\"); Saisiyat \"balosh\" (\"typhoon\"), Babuza \"bayus\" (\"storm\"), Puyuma \"variw\", Bintulu \"bauy\" (\"wind\"), Kelabit \"bariw\" (\"storm wind\"), and Chamorro \"pakyo\" (\"typhoon\").\n\nThe Joint Typhoon Warning Center in Honolulu started monitoring and naming storms in the Western Pacific region in 1945, originally using female names in English alphabetical order. That list was revised in 1979 by introducing male names to be used in alternation with the female names. The Philippine Weather Bureau started naming storms within their area of responsibility in 1963, using female Filipino names ending in ng in native alphabetical order. The Bureau continued to monitor typhoons until the agency's abolition in 1972, after which its duties were transferred to the newly-established PAGASA. This often resulted in a Western Pacific cyclone carrying two names: an international name and a local name generally used within the Philippines. This two-name scheme is still followed today.\n\nBeginning in 2000, cyclone monitoring duties in the Western Pacific were transferred from the JTWC to the Japan Meteorological Agency, the RSMC of the World Meteorological Organization. The international naming scheme of the typhoons was replaced with a sequential list of names contributed by 14 nations in the region, including the Philippines. The new scheme largely uses terms for local features of the contributing nation, such as animals, plants, foods and adjectives in the native language. The rotation of names is based on the alphabetical order of the contributing nations. The Philippines, however, would maintain its own naming scheme for its local forecasts. In 2001, PAGASA revised its naming scheme to contain longer annual lists with a more mixed set of names.\n\nCurrently, the JMA and PAGASA each assign names to typhoons that form within or enter the Philippine Area of Responsibility. The JMA naming scheme for international use contains 140 names described above. The list is not restricted by year; the first name to be used in a typhoon season is the name after the last-named cyclone of the preceding season. The PAGASA naming scheme for Philippine use contains four lists, each containing twenty-five names arranged in alphabetical order. Every typhoon season begins with the first name in the assigned list, and the rolls of names are each reused every four years. An auxiliary list of ten names is used when the main list in a year had been exhausted. Not all Western Pacific cyclones are given names by both weather agencies, as JMA does not name tropical depressions, and PAGASA does not name cyclones outside the Philippine Area of Responsibility.\n\nIn the case of both weather agencies, names are retired when a typhoon carrying it caused severe or costly damage and loss of life. Retirement is decided by the agencies' committees, although in PAGASA's case, names are routinely retired when the cyclone caused at least 300 deaths or ₱1 billion in damage in the Philippines. Retired names are replaced with another name for the next rotation, for JMA by the nation that submitted the retired name, and for PAGASA with a name sharing the same first letter as the retired name.\n\nOn an annual time scale, activity reaches a minimum in May, before increasing steadily to June, and spiking from July to September, with August being the most active month for tropical cyclones in the Philippines. Activity reduces significantly in October. The most active season, since 1945, for tropical cyclone strikes on the island archipelago was 1993 when nineteen tropical cyclones moved through the country (though there were 36 storms that were named by PAGASA). There was only one tropical cyclone which moved through the Philippines in 1958. The most frequently impacted areas of the Philippines by tropical cyclones are northern Luzon and eastern Visayas. A ten-year average of satellite determined precipitation showed that at least 30 percent of the annual rainfall in the northern Philippines could be traced to tropical cyclones, while the southern islands receive less than 10 percent of their annual rainfall from tropical cyclones.\n\nThe Philippine Atmospheric, Geophysical and Astronomical Services Administration (PAGASA) releases tropical cyclone warnings in the form of Tropical Cyclone Warning Signals. An area having a storm signal may be under:\n\nThese Tropical Cyclone Warning Signals are usually raised when an area (in the Philippines only) is about to be hit by a tropical cyclone. As a tropical cyclone gains strength and/or gets nearer to an area having a storm signal, the warning may be upgraded to a higher one in that particular area (e.g. a signal No. 1 warning for an area may be increased to signal #3). Conversely, as a tropical cyclone weakens and/or gets farther to an area, it may be downgraded to a lower signal or may be lifted (that is, an area will have no storm signal).\n\nClasses for Preschool are canceled when Signal No. 1 is in effect. Elementary and High School classes and below are cancelled under Signal No. 2 and classes for Colleges and Universities and below are cancelled under Signal Nos. 3, 4 and 5.\n\n\nFor other storms impacting the Philippines in deadly seasons, see:\n\n"}
{"id": "52211645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52211645", "title": "Zahurul Haq", "text": "Zahurul Haq\n\nZahurul Haq (9 February 1935 – 15 February 1969) was a Pakistan Air Force sergeant. He was one of the 35 persons accused in the Agartala Conspiracy Case in 1968. He was killed in custody and his death led to increase in 1969 uprising in East Pakistan. He received the Independence Day Award from the Government of Bangladesh in 2018.\n\nHaq was born on 9 February 1935 in Sonapur, Sudharam (now Noakhali Sadar Upazila), Noakhali. He completed his matriculation from Noakhali Zilla School in 1953 and intermediate from Jagannath College.\n\nIn 1956, Haq joined Pakistan Air Force in 1956 and reached the rank of a sergeant. He was arrested in December 1967 in accusation of a conspiracy to cause an uprising in East Pakistan with the intention of bringing about the secession of the province from the rest of Pakistan. He was confined in Dhaka Central Jail and later, was transferred to Dhaka Cantonment in Kurmitola. In January 1968, Awami League leader Sheikh Mujibur Rahman's name was added to the case. A special tribunal was set headed by a West Pakistani Justice S. A. Rahman, with two other Bengali judges Justice Mujibur Rahman Khan and Justice Maksum-ul-Hakim. Barrister Abul Khair Khan served on the legal panel in this Agartala Conspiracy Case as a lawyer for Sergeant Zahurul Haq. The final date for the case was set to 6 February 1969 and the date was deferred later. On 15 February 1969, he was shot by a Pakistani Havildar. He was taken to the Combined Military Hospital and died at around 10 pm.\n\nHaq's death led to more street protests and state guest house and other government buildings were burned down which led to the withdrawal of the Agartala Conspiracy Case on 22 February 1969. \"February 15 Bahini\", the first armed force was formed and consisted of student leaders.\n\nHaq was a painter. Some of his paintings are displayed in Bangladesh National Museum. Sergeant Zahurul Haq Hall of the University of Dhaka is named after him. BAF Zahurul Haq base, a Bangladesh Air Force base is named after him.\n\nHaq's eldest brother, Aminul Haque (d. 1995) became the Attorney General of Bangladesh.\n"}
