{"id": "20238168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20238168", "title": "14th Dalai Lama", "text": "14th Dalai Lama\n\nThe 14th Dalai Lama (religious name: Tenzin Gyatso, shortened from Jetsun Jamphel Ngawang Lobsang Yeshe Tenzin Gyatso; born Lhamo Thondup, 6 July 1935) is the current Dalai Lama. Dalai Lamas are important monks of the Gelug school, the newest school of Tibetan Buddhism which was formally headed by the Ganden Tripas. From the time of the 5th Dalai Lama to 1959, the central government of Tibet, the Ganden Phodrang, invested the position of Dalai Lama with temporal duties.\n\nThe 14th Dalai Lama was born in Taktser, Amdo, Tibet, and was selected as the tulku of the 13th Dalai Lama in 1937 and formally recognized as the 14th Dalai Lama at a public declaration near the town of Bumchen in 1939. His enthronement ceremony as the Dalai Lama was held in Lhasa on 22 February 1940, and he eventually assumed full temporal (political) duties on 17 November 1950, at the age of 15, after the People's Republic of China's incorporation of Tibet. The Gelug school's government administered an area roughly corresponding to the Tibet Autonomous Region just as the nascent PRC wished to assert control over it.\n\nDuring the 1959 Tibetan uprising, the Dalai Lama fled to India, where he currently lives as a refugee. The 14th Dalai Lama received the Nobel Peace Prize in 1989. \"Time Magazine\" named him one of the \"Children of Mahatma Gandhi\" and his spiritual heir to nonviolence. He has traveled the world and has spoken about the welfare of Tibetans, environment, economics, women's rights, non-violence, interfaith dialogue, physics, astronomy, Buddhism and science, cognitive neuroscience, reproductive health, and sexuality, along with various topics of Mahayana and Vajrayana Buddhist teachings.\n\nLhamo Thondup was born on 6 July 1935 to a farming and horse trading family in the small hamlet of Taktser, or Chija Tagtser (Hongya (红崖村) in Chinese), at the edge of the traditional Tibetan region of Amdo. His family was of Monguor extraction. He was one of seven siblings to survive childhood. The eldest was his sister Tsering Dolma, eighteen years his senior. His eldest brother, Thupten Jigme Norbu, had been recognised at the age of eight as the reincarnation of the high Lama Taktser Rinpoche. His sister, Jetsun Pema, spent most of her adult life on the Tibetan Children's Villages project. The Dalai Lama has said that his first language was \"a broken Xining language which was (a dialect of) the Chinese language\", a form of Central Plains Mandarin, and his family did not speak the Tibetan language.\n\nFollowing reported signs and visions, three search teams were sent out to the north-east, the east, and the south-east to locate the new incarnation when the boy who was to become the 14th Dalai Lama was about two years old. Sir Basil Gould, British delegate to Lhasa in 1936, related his account of the north-eastern team to Sir Charles Alfred Bell, former British resident in Lhasa and friend of the 13th Dalai Lama. Amongst other omens, the head of the embalmed body of the thirteenth Dalai Lama, at first facing south-east, had turned to face the north-east, indicating, it was interpreted, the direction in which his successor would be found. The Regent, Reting Rinpoche, shortly afterwards had a vision at the sacred lake of Lhamo La-tso which he interpreted as Amdo being the region to search. This vision was also interpreted to refer to a large monastery with a gilded roof and turquoise tiles, and a twisting path from it to a hill to the east, opposite which stood a small house with distinctive eaves. The team, led by Kewtsang Rinpoche, went first to meet the Panchen Lama, who had been stuck in Jyekundo, in northern Kham. The Panchen Lama had been investigating births of unusual children in the area ever since the death of the 13th Dalai Lama. He gave Kewtsang the names of three boys whom he had discovered and identified as candidates. Within a year the Panchen Lama had died. Two of his three candidates were crossed off the list but the third, a \"fearless\" child, the most promising, was from Taktser village, which, as in the vision, was on a hill, at the end of a trail leading to Taktser from the great Kumbum Monastery with its gilded, turquoise roof. There they found a house, as interpreted from the vision—the house where Lhamo Dhondup lived.\n\nAccording to the 14th Dalai Lama, at the time the village of Taktser stood right on the \"real border\" between the region of Amdo and China. When the team visited, posing as pilgrims, its leader, a Sera Lama, pretended to be the servant and sat separately in the kitchen. He held an old rosary that had belonged to the 13th Dalai Lama, and the boy Lhamo Dhondup, aged two, approached and asked for it. The monk said \"if you know who I am, you can have it.\" The child said \"Sera Lama, Sera Lama\" and spoke with him in a Lhasa accent, in a dialect the boy's mother could not understand. The next time the party returned to the house, they revealed their real purpose and asked permission to subject the boy to certain tests. One test consisted of showing him various pairs of objects, one of which had belonged to the 13th Dalai Lama and one which had not. In every case, he chose the Dalai Lama's own objects and rejected the others. Thus, it was the Panchen Lama who first discovered and identified the 14th Dalai Lama.\n\nFrom 1936 the Hui 'Ma Clique' Muslim warlord Ma Bufang ruled Qinghai as its governor under the nominal authority of the Republic of China central government. According to an interview with the 14th Dalai Lama, in the 1930s, Ma Bufang had seized this north-east corner of Amdo in the name of Chiang Kai-shek's weak government and incorporated it into the Chinese province of Qinghai. Before going to Taktser, Kewtsang had gone to Ma Bufang to pay his respects. When Ma Bufang heard a candidate had been found in Taktser, he had the family brought to him in Xining. He first demanded proof that the boy was the Dalai Lama, but the Lhasa government, though informed by Kewtsang that this was the one, told Kewtsang to say he had to go to Lhasa for further tests with other candidates. They knew that if he was declared to be the Dalai Lama, the Chinese government would insist on sending a large army escort with him, which would then stay in Lhasa and refuse to budge. Ma Bufang, together with Kumbum Monastery, then refused to allow him to depart unless he was declared to be the Dalai Lama, but withdrew this demand in return for 100,000 Chinese dollars ransom in silver to be shared amongst them, to let them go to Lhasa. Kewtsang managed to raise this, but the family was only allowed to move from Xining to Kumbum when a further demand was made for another 330,000 dollars ransom: one hundred thousand each for government officials, the commander-in-chief, and the Kumbum Monastery; twenty thousand for the escort; and only ten thousand for Ma Bufang himself, he said.\n\nTwo years of diplomatic wrangling followed before it was accepted by Lhasa that the ransom had to be paid to avoid the Chinese getting involved and escorting him to Lhasa with a large army. Meanwhile, the boy was kept at Kumbum where two of his brothers were already studying as monks and recognised incarnate lamas. The payment of 300,000 silver dollars was then advanced by Muslim traders en route to Mecca in a large caravan via Lhasa. They paid Ma Bufang on behalf of the Tibetan government against promissory notes to be redeemed, with interest, in Lhasa. The 20,000-dollar fee for an escort was dropped, since the Muslim merchants invited them to join their caravan for protection; Ma Bufang sent 20 of his soldiers with them and was paid from both sides since the Chinese government granted him another 50,000 dollars for the expenses of the journey. Furthermore, the Indian government helped the Tibetans raise the ransom funds by affording them import concessions.\n\nReleased from Kumbum, on 21 July 1939 the party travelled across Tibet in an epic journey to Lhasa in the large Muslim caravan with Lhamo Thondup, now 4 years old, riding with his brother Lobsang in a special palanquin carried by two mules, two years after being discovered. As soon as they were out of Ma Bufang's area, he was officially declared to be the 14th Dalai Lama by the Central Government of Tibet, and after ten weeks of travel he arrived in Lhasa on 8 October 1939. The ordination (pabbajja) and giving of the monastic name of Tenzin Gyatso were handled by Reting Rinpoche. There was very limited Chinese involvement at this time.\n\nTibetan Buddhists normally refer to him as Yishin Norbu (\"Wish-Fulfilling Gem\"), Kyabgon (\"Saviour\"), or just Kundun (\"Presence\"). His devotees, as well as much of the Western world, often call him \"His Holiness the Dalai Lama\", the style employed on the Dalai Lama's website. According to the Dalai Lama, he had a succession of tutors in Tibet including Reting Rinpoche, Tathag Rinpoche, Ling Rinpoche and lastly Trijang Rinpoche, who became junior tutor when he was nineteen. At the age of 11 he met the Austrian mountaineer Heinrich Harrer, who became his videographer and tutor about the world outside Lhasa. The two remained friends until Harrer's death in 2006.\n\nIn 1959, at the age of 23, he took his final examination at Lhasa's Jokhang Temple during the annual Monlam or Prayer Festival. He passed with honours and was awarded the Lharampa degree, the highest-level \"geshe\" degree, roughly equivalent to a doctorate in Buddhist philosophy.\n\nHistorically the Dalai Lamas or their regents held political and religious leadership over Tibet from Lhasa with varying degrees of influence depending on the regions of Tibet and periods of history. This began with the 5th Dalai Lama's rule in 1642 and lasted until the 1950s (except for 1705–1750), during which period the Dalai Lamas headed the Tibetan government or Ganden Phodrang. Until 1912 however, when the 13th Dalai Lama declared the complete independence of Tibet, their rule was generally subject to patronage and protection of firstly Mongol kings (1642–1720) and then the Manchu-led Qing dynasty (1720–1912). In 1939, at the age of four, the present Dalai Lama was taken in a procession of lamas to Lhasa. The Dalai Lama's childhood was then spent between the Potala Palace and Norbulingka, his summer residence, both of which are now UNESCO World Heritage sites.\n\nChina claims that the Kuomintang government ratified the 14th Dalai Lama and that a Kuomintang representative, General Wu Zhongxin, presided over the ceremony. The British Representative Sir Basil Gould was also at the ceremony and bore witness to the falsity of the Chinese claim to have presided over it. He criticised the Chinese account as follows: \nTibetan scholar Nyima Gyaincain wrote that based on Tibetan tradition, there was no such thing as presiding over an event, but two things are clear, first, the word \"主持 (preside or organize)\" was used in many places in communication documents. The meaning of the word was different than what we understand today. Second, Wu Zhongxin spent a lot of time and energy on the event, his effect of presiding over or organizing the event was very obvious. However, according to Goldstein: \nChiang Kai Shek ordered Ma Bufang to put his Muslim soldiers on alert for an invasion of Tibet in 1942. Ma Bufang complied, and moved several thousand troops to the border with Tibet. Chiang also threatened the Tibetans with aerial bombardment if they worked with the Japanese. Ma Bufang attacked the Tibetan Buddhist Tsang monastery in 1941. He also constantly attacked the Labrang monastery.\n\nIn October 1950 the army of the People's Republic of China marched to the edge of the Dalai Lama's territory and sent a delegation after defeating a legion of the Tibetan army in warlord-controlled Kham. On 17 November 1950, at the age of 15, the 14th Dalai Lama was enthroned formally as the temporal ruler of Tibet.\n\nPanchen Lama and Dalai Lama had many conflicts in Tibetan history. Dalai Lama's formal rule was brief. He sent a delegation to Beijing, which, without his authorization, ratified the Seventeen Point Agreement for the Peaceful Liberation of Tibet. He worked with the Chinese government: in September 1954, together with the 10th Panchen Lama he went to the Chinese capital to meet Mao Zedong and attend the first session of the National People's Congress as a delegate, primarily discussing China's constitution. On 27 September 1954, the Dalai Lama was selected as a Vice chairman of the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress, a post he officially held until 1964.\n\nIn 1956, on a trip to India to celebrate the Buddha's Birthday, the Dalai Lama asked the Prime Minister of India, Jawaharlal Nehru, if he would allow him political asylum should he choose to stay. Nehru discouraged this as a provocation against peace, and reminded him of the Indian Government's non-interventionist stance agreed upon with its 1954 treaty with China.\n\nAt the outset of the 1959 Tibetan uprising, fearing for his life, the Dalai Lama and his retinue fled Tibet with the help of the CIA's Special Activities Division, crossing into India on 30 March 1959, reaching Tezpur in Assam on 18 April. Some time later he set up the Government of Tibet in Exile in Dharamshala, India, which is often referred to as \"Little Lhasa\". After the founding of the government in exile he re-established the approximately 80,000 Tibetan refugees who followed him into exile in agricultural settlements. He created a Tibetan educational system in order to teach the Tibetan children the language, history, religion, and culture. The Tibetan Institute of Performing Arts was established in 1959 and the Central Institute of Higher Tibetan Studies became the primary university for Tibetans in India in 1967. He supported the refounding of 200 monasteries and nunneries in an attempt to preserve Tibetan Buddhist teachings and the Tibetan way of life.\n\nThe Dalai Lama appealed to the United Nations on the rights of Tibetans. This appeal resulted in three resolutions adopted by the General Assembly in 1959, 1961, and 1965, all before the People's Republic was allowed representation at the United Nations. The resolutions called on China to respect the human rights of Tibetans. In 1963, he promulgated a democratic constitution which is based upon the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, creating an elected parliament and an administration to champion his cause. In 1970, he opened the Library of Tibetan Works and Archives in Dharamshala which houses over 80,000 manuscripts and important knowledge resources related to Tibetan history, politics and culture. It is considered one of the most important institutions for Tibetology in the world.\n\nIn 2016, there were demands from Indian politicians of different political parties and citizens to confer His Holiness The Dalai Lama the prestigious Bharat Ratna, the highest civilian honour of India which has only been awarded to a Non-Indian citizen twice in its history.\n\nAt the Congressional Human Rights Caucus in 1987 in Washington, D.C., the Dalai Lama gave a speech outlining his ideas for the future status of Tibet. The plan called for Tibet to become a democratic \"zone of peace\" without nuclear weapons, and with support for human rights. The plan would come to be known as the \"Strasbourg proposal\", because the Dalai Lama expanded on the plan at Strasbourg on 15 June 1988. There, he proposed the creation of a self-governing Tibet \"in association with the People's Republic of China.\" This would have been pursued by negotiations with the PRC government, but the plan was rejected by the Tibetan Government-in-Exile in 1991. The Dalai Lama has indicated that he wishes to return to Tibet only if the People's Republic of China agrees not to make any precondition for his return. In the 1970s, the then-Paramount leader Deng Xiaoping set China's sole return requirement to the Dalai Lama as that he \"must [come back] as a Chinese citizen ... that is, patriotism\".\n\nThe Dalai Lama celebrated his seventieth birthday on 6 July 2005. About 10,000 Tibetan refugees, monks and foreign tourists gathered outside his home. Patriarch Alexius II of the Russian Orthodox Church alleged positive relations with Buddhists. However, later that year, the Russian state prevented the Dalai Lama from fulfilling an invitation to the traditionally Buddhist republic of Kalmykia. Then President of the Republic of China (Taiwan), Chen Shui-bian, attended an evening celebrating the Dalai Lama's birthday at the Chiang Kai-shek Memorial Hall in Taipei. In October 2008 in Japan, the Dalai Lama addressed the 2008 Tibetan violence that had erupted and that the Chinese government accused him of fomenting. He responded that he had \"lost faith\" in efforts to negotiate with the Chinese government, and that it was \"up to the Tibetan people\" to decide what to do.\n\n30 Taiwanese aborigines protested against the Dalai Lama during his visit to Taiwan after Typhoon Morakot and denounced it as politically motivated.\n\nThe Dalai Lama is an advocate for a world free of nuclear weapons, and currently serves on the Advisory Council of the Nuclear Age Peace Foundation.\n\nThe Dalai Lama has voiced his support for the Campaign for the Establishment of a United Nations Parliamentary Assembly, an organisation which campaigns for democratic reformation of the United Nations, and the creation of a more accountable international political system. \n\nGiving public talks for non-Buddhist audiences and interviews and teaching Buddhism to large public audiences all over the world, as well as to private groups at his residence in India, appears to be the Dalai Lama's main activity. Despite becoming 80 years old in 2015 he maintains a busy international lectures and teaching schedule. His public talks and teachings are usually webcast live in multiple languages, via an inviting organisation's website, or on the Dalai Lama's own website. Scores of his past teaching videos can be viewed there, as well as public talks, conferences, interviews, dialogues and panel discussions.\n\nThe Dalai Lama's best known teaching subject is the Kalachakra tantra which, as of 2014, he had conferred a total of 33 times, most often in India's upper Himalayan regions but also in western venues like Madison Square Garden in New York, Los Angeles, Washington DC, Barcelona, Graz, Sydney and Toronto. The Kalachakra (Wheel of Time) is one of the most complex teachings of Buddhism, sometimes taking two weeks to confer, and he often confers it on very large audiences, up to 200,000 students and disciples at a time.\n\nThe Dalai Lama is the author of numerous books on Buddhism, many of them on general Buddhist subjects but also including books on particular topics like Dzogchen, a Nyingma practice.\n\nIn Dalai Lama's essay, \"The Ethic of Compassion\" (1999), he expresses his belief that if we only reserve compassion for those that we love, we are ignoring the responsibility of sharing these characteristics of respect and empathy with those we do not have relationships with, which cannot allow us to \"cultivate love.\" He elaborates upon this idea by writing that although it takes time to develop a higher level of compassion, eventually we will recognize that the quality of empathy will become a part of life and promote our quality as humans and inner strength.\n\nHe frequently accepts requests from students to visit various countries worldwide in order to give teachings to large Buddhist audiences, teachings that are usually based on classical Buddhist texts and commentaries, and most often those written by the 17 pandits or great masters of the Nalanda tradition, such as Nagarjuna, Kamalashila, Shantideva, Atisha, Ayradeva and so on.\n\nThe Dalai Lama refers to himself as a follower of these Nalanda masters, in fact he often asserts that 'Tibetan Buddhism' is based on the Buddhist tradition of Nalanda monastery in ancient India, since the texts written by those 17 Nalanda pandits or masters, to whom he has composed a poem of invocation, were brought to Tibet and translated into Tibetan when Buddhism was first established there and have remained central to the teachings of Tibetan Buddhism ever since.\n\nAs examples of other teachings, in London in 1984 he was invited to give teachings on the Twelve Links of Dependent Arising, and on Dzogchen, which he gave at Camden Town Hall; in 1988 he was in London once more to give a series of lectures on Tibetan Buddhism in general, called 'A Survey of the Paths of Tibetan Buddhism'. Again in London in 1996 he taught the Four Noble Truths, the basis and foundation of Buddhism accepted by all Buddhists, at the combined invitation of 27 different Buddhist organisations of all schools and traditions belonging to the Network of Buddhist Organisations UK.\n\nIn India, the Dalai Lama gives religious teachings and talks in Dharamsala and numerous other locations including the monasteries in the Tibetan refugee settlements, in response to specific requests from Tibetan monastic institutions, Indian academic, religious and business associations, groups of students and individual/private/lay devotees. In India, no fees are charged to attend these teachings since costs are covered by requesting sponsors. When he travels abroad to give teachings there is usually a ticket fee calculated by the inviting organization to cover the costs involved and any surplus is normally to be donated to recognised charities.\n\nOn his frequent tours of India, Asia and the west he is also often invited to give, alongside his Buddhist teachings, public talks for non-Buddhist audiences. His talks and teaching activities in the U.S., for example, have included the following: on his April 2008 U.S. tour, he gave lectures at the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, at Rutgers University (New Jersey) and Colgate University (New York) Later in July, the Dalai Lama gave a public lecture and conducted a series of teachings at Lehigh University (Pennsylvania). On 8 May 2011, the University of Minnesota bestowed upon him their highest award, an Honorary Doctor of Letters. and during a return trip to Minnesota on 2 March 2014, he spoke at Macalester College which awarded him an honorary Doctor of Humane Letters degree.\n\nDozens of videos of recorded webcasts of the Dalai Lama's public talks on general subjects for non-Buddhists like peace, happiness and compassion, modern ethics, the environment, economic and social issues, gender, the empowerment of women and so forth can be viewed in his office's archive.\n\nThe Dalai Lama met Pope Paul VI at the Vatican in 1973. He met Pope John Paul II in 1980, 1982, 1986, 1988, 1990, and 2003. In 1990, he met a delegation of Jewish teachers in Dharamshala for an extensive interfaith dialogue. He has since visited Israel three times, and in 2006 met the Chief Rabbi of Israel. In 2006, he met Pope Benedict XVI privately. He has met the Archbishop of Canterbury, Dr. Robert Runcie, and other leaders of the Anglican Church in London, Gordon B. Hinckley, who at the time was the president of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (Mormons), as well as senior Eastern Orthodox Church, Muslim, Hindu, Jewish, and Sikh officials.\nThe Dalai Lama is also currently a member of the Board of World Religious Leaders as part of The Elijah Interfaith Institute and participated in the Third Meeting of the Board of World Religious Leaders in Amritsar, India, on 26 November 2007 to discuss the topic of Love and Forgiveness.\n\nOn 6 January 2009, the Dalai Lama inaugurated an interfaith \"World Religions-Dialogue and Symphony\" conference at Gujarat's Mahuva religions\", according to Morari Bapu.\n\nOn 12 May 2010 the Dalai Lama, joined by a panel of select scholars, officially launched the Common Ground Project, in Bloomington, Indiana (USA), which was planned by himself and Prince Ghazi bin Muhammad of Jordan during several years of personal conversations. The project is based on the book \"Common Ground between Islam and Buddhism\".\n\nThe Dalai Lama's lifelong interest in science and technology dates from his childhood in Lhasa, Tibet, when he was fascinated by mechanical objects like clocks, watches, telescopes, film projectors, clockwork soldiers and motor cars, and loved to repair, disassemble and reassemble them. Once, observing the moon through a telescope as a child, he realised it was a crater-pocked lump of rock and not a heavenly body emitting its own light as Tibetan cosmologists had taught him. He has also said that had he not been brought up as a monk he would probably have been an engineer. On his first trip to the west in 1973 he asked to visit Cambridge University's astrophysics department in the UK and he sought out renowned scientists such as Sir Karl Popper, David Bohm and Carl Friedrich von Weizsäcker, who taught him the basics of science.\n\nThe Dalai Lama sees important common ground between science and Buddhism in having the same approach to challenge dogma on the basis of empirical evidence that comes from observation and analysis of phenomena.\n\nHis growing wish to develop meaningful scientific dialogue to explore the Buddhism and science interface led to invitations for him to attend relevant conferences on his visits to the west, including the Alpbach Symposia on Consciousness in 1983 where he met and had discussions with the late Chilean neuroscientist Francisco J. Varela. Also in 1983, the American social entrepreneur and innovator R. Adam Engle, who had become aware of the Dalai Lama's deep interest in science, was already considering the idea of facilitating for him a serious dialogue with a selection of appropriate scientists. In 1984 Engle formally offered to the Dalai Lama's office to organise a week-long, formal dialogue for him with a suitable team of scientists, provided that the Dalai Lama would wish to fully participate in such a dialogue. Within 48 hours the Dalai Lama confirmed to Engle that he was \"truly interested in participating in something substantial about science\" so Engle proceeded with launching the project. Francisco Varela, having heard about Engle's proposal, then called him to tell him of his earlier discussions with the Dalai Lama and to offer his scientific collaboration to the project. Engle accepted, and Varela assisted him to assemble his team of six specialist scientists for the first 'Mind and Life' dialogue on the cognitive sciences, which was eventually held with the Dalai Lama at his residence in Dharamsala in 1987. This five-day event was so successful that at the end the Dalai Lama told Engle he would very much like to repeat it again in the future. Engle then started work on arranging a second dialogue, this time with neuroscientists in California, and the discussions from the first event were edited and published as Mind and Life's first book, \"\"Gentle Bridges: Conversations with the Dalai Lama on the Sciences of Mind\".\"\n\nAs Mind and Life Institute's remit expanded, Engle formalised the organisation as a non-profit foundation after the third dialogue, held in 1990, which initiated the undertaking of neurobiological research programmes in the United States under scientific conditions. Over the ensuing decades, as of 2014 at least 28 dialogues between the Dalai Lama and panels of various world-renowned scientists have followed, held in various countries and covering diverse themes, from the nature of consciousness to cosmology and from quantum mechanics to the neuroplasticity of the brain. Sponsors and partners in these dialogues have included the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Johns Hopkins University, the Mayo Clinic and Zurich University.\n\nApart from time spent teaching Buddhism and fulfilling responsibilities to his Tibetan followers, the Dalai Lama has probably spent, and continues to spend, more of his time and resources investigating the interface between Buddhism and science through the ongoing series of Mind and Life dialogues and its spin-offs than on any other single activity. As the Institute's Cofounder and the Honorary chairman he has personally presided over and participated in all its dialogues, which continue to expand worldwide.\n\nThese activities have given rise to dozens of DVD sets of the dialogues and books he has authored on them such as Ethics for the New Millennium and The Universe in a Single Atom, as well as scientific papers and university research programmes. On the Tibetan and Buddhist side, science subjects have been added to the curriculum for Tibetan monastic educational institutions and scholarship. On the Western side, university and research programmes initiated by these dialogues and funded with millions of dollars in grants from the Dalai Lama Trust include the Emory-Tibet Partnership, Stanford School of Medicine's Centre for Compassion and Altruism Research and Education (CCARES) and the Centre for Investigating Healthy Minds, amongst others.\n\nIn particular, the Mind and Life Education Humanities & Social Sciences initiatives have been instrumental in developing the emerging field of Contemplative Science, by researching, for example, the effects of contemplative practice on the human brain, behaviour and biology.\n\nIn his 2005 book \"The Universe in a Single Atom\" and elsewhere, and to mark his commitment to scientific truth and its ultimate ascendancy over religious belief, unusually for a major religious leader the Dalai Lama advises his Buddhist followers: \"If scientific analysis were conclusively to demonstrate certain claims in Buddhism to be false, then we must accept the findings of science and abandon those claims.\" He has also cited examples of archaic Buddhist ideas he has abandoned himself on this basis.\n\nThese activities have even had an impact in the Chinese capital. In 2013 an 'academic dialogue' with a Chinese scientist, a Tibetan 'living Buddha' and a Professor of Religion took place in Beijing. Entitled \"High-end dialogue: ancient Buddhism and modern science\" it addressed the same considerations that interest the Dalai Lama, described as 'discussing about the similarities between Buddhism and modern science'.\n\nThe Dalai Lama uses various meditation techniques, including analytic meditation. He has said that the aim of meditation is \"to maintain a very full state of alertness and mindfulness, and then try to see the natural state of your consciousness.\"\n\nThe Dalai Lama has shown a nuanced position on abortion. He explained that, from the perspective of the Buddhist precepts, abortion is an act of killing. He has also clarified that in certain cases abortion could be considered ethically acceptable \"if the unborn child will be retarded or if the birth will create serious problems for the parent\", which could only be determined on a case-by-case basis.\n\nThe Dalai Lama says that he is active in spreading India's message of nonviolence and religious harmony throughout the world. \"I am the messenger of India's ancient thoughts the world over.\" He has said that democracy has deep roots in India. He says he considers India the master and Tibet its disciple, as great scholars went from India to Tibet to teach Buddhism. He has noted that millions of people lost their lives in violence and the economies of many countries were ruined due to conflicts in the 20th century. \"Let the 21st century be a century of tolerance and dialogue.\"\n\nIn 1993, the Dalai Lama attended the World Conference on Human Rights and made a speech titled \"Human Rights and Universal Responsibility\".\n\nIn 2001, he answered the question of a girl in a Seattle school by saying that it is permissible to shoot someone with a gun in self-defense if that person was \"trying to kill you,\" and he emphasized that the shot should not be fatal.\n\nIn April 2013, the Dalai Lama openly criticised Buddhist monks' attacks on Muslims in Myanmar \"Buddha always teaches us about forgiveness, tolerance, compassion. If from one corner of your mind, some emotion makes you want to hit, or want to kill, then please remember Buddha's faith. We are followers of Buddha.\" He said that \"All problems must be solved through dialogue, through talk. The use of violence is outdated, and never solves problems.\" In May 2013, he said \"Really, killing people in the name of religion is unthinkable, very sad.\" In May 2015, the Dalai Lama publicly called on Myanmar's Nobel Peace Prize winner Aung San Suu Kyi to do more to help the Rohingya Muslims in Myanmar, claiming that he had previously urged her to address the plight of the Rohingya in private during two separate meetings and that she had resisted his urging.\n\nIn response to the death of Chinese Nobel Peace Prize laureate Liu Xiaobo, who died of organ failure while in government custody, the Dalai Lama issued the following statement on 14 July 2017, \"I am deeply saddened to learn that fellow Nobel Laureate Liu Xiaobo has passed away while undergoing a lengthy prison sentence ... It is my belief that Nobel Laureate Liu Xiaobo's unceasing efforts in the cause of freedom will bear fruit before long.\"\n\nThe Dalai Lama advocates compassion for animals and frequently urges people to try vegetarianism or at least reduce their consumption of meat. In Tibet, where historically meat was the most common food, most monks historically have been omnivores, including the Dalai Lamas. The Fourteenth Dalai Lama was raised in a meat-eating family but converted to vegetarianism after arriving in India, where vegetables are much more easily available. He spent many years as a vegetarian, but after contracting hepatitis in India and suffering from weakness, his doctors ordered him to eat meat on alternating days, which he did for several years. He tried switching back to a vegetarian diet, but once again returned to limited consumption of meat. This attracted public attention when, during a visit to the White House, he was offered a vegetarian menu but declined by replying, as he is known to do on occasion when dining in the company of non-vegetarians, \"I'm a Tibetan monk, not a vegetarian\". His own home kitchen, however, is completely vegetarian.\n\nThe Dalai Lama has referred to himself as a Marxist and has articulated criticisms of capitalism.\n\nHe reports hearing of communism when he was very young, but only in the context of the destruction of Communist Mongolia. It was only when he went on his trip to Beijing that he learned about Marxist theory from his interpreter Baba Phuntsog Wangyal. At that time, he reports, \"I was so attracted to Marxism, I even expressed my wish to become a Communist Party member\", citing his favorite concepts of self-sufficiency and equal distribution of wealth. He does not believe that China implemented \"true Marxist policy\", and thinks the historical communist states such as the Soviet Union \"were far more concerned with their narrow national interests than with the Workers' International\". Moreover, he believes one flaw of historically \"Marxist regimes\" is that they place too much emphasis on destroying the ruling class, and not enough on compassion. Despite this, he finds Marxism superior to capitalism, believing the latter is only concerned with \"how to make profits\", whereas the former has \"moral ethics\". Stating in 1993:\n\nThe Dalai Lama is outspoken in his concerns about environmental problems, frequently giving public talks on themes related to the environment. He has pointed out that many rivers in Asia originate in Tibet, and that the melting of Himalayan glaciers could affect the countries in which the rivers flow. He acknowledged official Chinese laws against deforestation in Tibet, but lamented they can be ignored due to possible corruption. He was quoted as saying \"ecology should be part of our daily life\"; personally, he takes showers instead of baths, and turns lights off when he leaves a room. Around 2005, he started campaigning for wildlife conservation, including by issuing a religious ruling against wearing tiger and leopard skins as garments. The Dalai Lama supports the anti-whaling position in the whaling controversy, but has criticized the activities of groups such as the Sea Shepherd Conservation Society (which carries out acts of what it calls aggressive nonviolence against property). Before the 2009 United Nations Climate Change Conference, he urged national leaders to put aside domestic concerns and take collective action against climate change.\n\nA monk since childhood, the Dalai Lama has said that sex offers fleeting satisfaction and leads to trouble later, while chastity offers a better life and \"more independence, more freedom\". He has observed that problems arising from conjugal life sometimes even lead to suicide or murder. He has asserted that all religions have the same view about adultery.\n\nIn his discussions of the traditional Buddhist view on appropriate sexual behavior, he explains the concept of \"right organ in the right object at the right time,\" which historically has been interpreted as indicating that oral, manual and anal sex (both homosexual and heterosexual) are not appropriate in Buddhism or for Buddhists. However, he also says that in modern times all common, consensual sexual practices that do not cause harm to others are ethically acceptable and that society should accept and respect people who are gay or transgender from a secular point of view. In a 1994 interview with \"OUT Magazine\", the Dalai Lama clarified his personal opinion on the matter by saying, \"If someone comes to me and asks whether homosexuality is okay or not, I will ask 'What is your companion's opinion?' If you both agree, then I think I would say, 'If two males or two females voluntarily agree to have mutual satisfaction without further implication of harming others, then it is okay.'\" However, when interviewed by Canadian TV news anchor Evan Solomon on \"\" about whether homosexuality is acceptable in Buddhism, the Dalai Lama responded that \"it is sexual misconduct\". This was an echo of an earlier response in a 2004 \"The Vancouver Sun\" interview when asked about homosexuality in Buddhism, where the Dalai Lama replied \"for a Buddhist, the same sex, that is sexual misconduct\".\n\nIn his 1996 book \"Beyond Dogma\", he described a traditional Buddhist definition of an appropriate sexual act as follows: \"A sexual act is deemed proper when the couples use the organs intended for sexual intercourse and nothing else [ ... ] Homosexuality, whether it is between men or between women, is not improper in itself. What is improper is the use of organs already defined as inappropriate for sexual contact.\" He elaborated in 1997, explaining that the basis of that teaching was unknown to him. He also conveyed his own \"willingness to consider the possibility that some of the teachings may be specific to a particular cultural and historic context\".\n\nThe Dalai Lama has expressed concern at \"reports of violence and discrimination against gay, bisexual, and transgender people\" and \"urges respect, tolerance and the full recognition of human rights for all\".\n\nIn 2007, he said that the next Dalai Lama could possibly be a woman, remarking \"If a woman reveals herself as more useful the lama could very well be reincarnated in this form\".\n\nIn 2009, on gender equality and sexism, the Dalai Lama proclaimed at the National Civil Rights Museum in Memphis, Tennessee: \"I call myself a feminist. Isn't that what you call someone who fights for women's rights?\" He also said that by nature, women are more compassionate \"based on their biology and ability to nurture and birth children\". He called on women to \"lead and create a more compassionate world\", citing the good works of nurses and mothers.\n\nIn 2014, the Dalai Lama attended the inauguration of the Secular Ethics for Higher Education Course at the Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS) in Mumbai, where he was reported to have stated that, \"Since women have been shown to be more sensitive to others' suffering, their leadership may be more effective. His Holiness suggested it's time for men to withdraw and for women to step forward.\"\n\nIn 2015, he said in a BBC interview that if a female succeeded him, \"that female must be attractive, otherwise it is not much use,\" and when asked if he was joking, replied, \"No. True!\" He followed with a joke about his current success being due to his own appearance.\n\nIn April 2013, at the Culture of Compassion event in Ebrington Square in Derry, Northern Ireland, the Dalai Lama asserted, stressing the importance of peace of mind: \"Warm-heartedness is a key factor for healthy individuals, healthy families and healthy communities [ ... ] Scientists say that a healthy mind is a major factor for a healthy body. If you're serious about your health, think and take most concern for your peace of mind. That's very, very important.\"\n\nIn September 2018, speaking at a conference in Sweden's third-largest city, Malmo, home to a large immigrant population, the Dalai Lama said \"I think Europe belongs to the Europeans,\" he said, adding they should make clear to refugees that \"they ultimately should rebuild their own country\".\n\nIn 2016, Speaking to German reporters the Dalai Lama said \"too many\" refugees are seeking asylum in Europe,\" adding that \"Europe, for example Germany, cannot become an Arab country\". He also said that Germany is Germany. \"There are so many that in practice it becomes difficult.\"\n\nOn 29 May 2011, the Dalai Lama retired from the Central Tibetan Administration.\n\nOn 24 September 2011, the Dalai Lama issued the following statement concerning his reincarnation:\nWhen I am about ninety I will consult the high Lamas of the Tibetan Buddhist traditions, the Tibetan public, and other concerned people who follow Tibetan Buddhism, and re-evaluate whether the institution of the Dalai Lama should continue or not. On that basis we will take a decision. If it is decided that the reincarnation of the Dalai Lama should continue and there is a need for the Fifteenth Dalai Lama to be recognized, responsibility for doing so will primarily rest on the concerned officers of the Dalai Lama's Gaden Phodrang Trust. They should consult the various heads of the Tibetan Buddhist traditions and the reliable oath-bound Dharma Protectors who are linked inseparably to the lineage of the Dalai Lamas. They should seek advice and direction from these concerned beings and carry out the procedures of search and recognition in accordance with past tradition. I shall leave clear written instructions about this. Bear in mind that, apart from the reincarnation recognized through such legitimate methods, no recognition or acceptance should be given to a candidate chosen for political ends by anyone, including those in the People's Republic of China.\n\nOn 3 October 2011, the Dalai Lama repeated his statement in an interview with Canadian CTV News. He added that Chinese laws banning the selection of successors based on reincarnation will not impact his decisions. \"Naturally my next life is entirely up to me. No one else. And also this is not a political matter,\" he said in the interview. The Dalai Lama also added that he was not decided on whether he would reincarnate or be the last Dalai Lama.\n\nIn an interview with the German newspaper \"Welt am Sonntag\" published on 7 September 2014 the Dalai Lama stated \"the institution of the Dalai Lama has served its purpose\", and that \"We had a Dalai Lama for almost five centuries. The 14th Dalai Lama now is very popular. Let us then finish with a popular Dalai Lama.\"\n\nGyatso has also expressed fear that the Chinese government would manipulate any reincarnation selection in order to choose a successor that would go along with their political goals. In response the Chinese government implied that it would select another Dalai Lama regardless of his decision.\n\nIn October 1998, the Dalai Lama's administration acknowledged that it received $1.7 million a year in the 1960s from the U.S. government through the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA). When asked by CIA officer John Kenneth Knaus in 1995 to comment on the CIA Tibetan program, the Dalai Lama replied that though it helped the morale of those resisting the Chinese, \"thousands of lives were lost in the resistance\" and further, that \"the U.S. Government had involved itself in his country's affairs not to help Tibet but only as a Cold War tactic to challenge the Chinese.\"\n\nIn his autobiography \"Freedom in Exile\", the Dalai Lama criticized the CIA again for supporting the Tibetan independence movement \"not because they (the CIA) cared about Tibetan independence, but as part of their worldwide efforts to destabilize all communist governments\".\n\nIn 1999, the Dalai Lama said that the CIA Tibetan program had been harmful for Tibet because it was primarily aimed at serving American interests, and \"once the American policy toward China changed, they stopped their help.\"\n\nThe Chinese press has criticized the Dalai Lama for his close ties with India. His 2010 remarks at the International Buddhist Conference in Gujarat saying that he was \"Tibetan in appearance, but an Indian in spirituality\" and referral to himself as a \"son of India\" in particular led the \"People's Daily\" to opine, \"Since the Dalai Lama deems himself an Indian rather than Chinese, then why is he entitled to represent the voice of the Tibetan people?\" Dhundup Gyalpo of the \"Tibet Sun\" shot back that Tibetan religion could be traced back to Nalanda in India, and that Tibetans have no connection to Chinese \"apart ... from a handful of culinary dishes\". The \"People's Daily\" stressed the links between Chinese Buddhism and Tibetan Buddhism and accused the Dalai Lama of \"betraying southern Tibet to India\". In 2008, the Dalai Lama said for the first time that the territory India claims as part of Arunachal Pradesh is part of India, citing the disputed 1914 Simla Accord.\n\nThe Dorje Shugden Controversy reappeared in the Gelug school by the publication of the \"Yellow Book\" in 1976, containing stories about wrathful acts of \"Dorje Shugden\" against Gelugpas who also practiced Nyingma teachings. In response, the 14th Dalai Lama, a Gelugpa himself and advocate of an \"inclusive\" approach to the teachings of Tibetan Buddhism, started to speak out against the practice of Dorje Shugden in 1978.\n\nThe controversy has attracted attention in the West because of demonstrations held in 2008 and 2014 by Dorje Shugden practitioners. A 2015 Reuters investigation determined \"that the religious sect behind the protests has the backing of the Communist Party\" and that the \"group has emerged as an instrument in Beijing's long campaign to undermine support for the Dalai Lama\". After the Reuters investigation revealed that China backs it, the Shugden group halted operations and disbanded.\n\nIn April 2018, the Dalai Lama confirmed the official Chinese claims about Gedhun Choekyi Nyima by saying that he knew from \"reliable sources\" that the Panchen Lama he had recognized was alive and receiving normal education. He said he hoped that the official Panchen Lama (Gyaincain Norbu) studied well under the guidance of a good teacher, adding that there were instances in Tibetan Buddhist tradition, of a reincarnated lama taking more than one manifestation.\n\nIn a May 2013 Harris Poll of 7,245 adults across the five largest European countries and the United States, the Dalai Lama was tied with President Barack Obama with the highest levels of popularity, 78%, of all world leaders. Pope Francis was the only leader that came close to the two of them, and in the United States alone the Dalai Lama topped the poll over Obama by 13 percentage points.\n\nThe Dalai Lama's appeal is variously ascribed to his charismatic personality, international fascination with Buddhism, his universalist values, international sympathy for the Tibetans, and western sinophobia. In the 1990s, many films were released by the American film industry about Tibet, including biopics of the Dalai Lama. This is attributed to both the Dalai Lama's 1989 Nobel Peace Prize as well as to the euphoria following the Fall of Communism. The most notable films, \"Kundun\" and \"Seven Years in Tibet\" (both released in 1997), portrayed \"an idyllic pre-1950 Tibet, with a smiling, soft-spoken Dalai Lama at the helm – a Dalai Lama sworn to non-violence\": portrayals the Chinese government decried as ahistorical.\n\nThe Dalai Lama has his own pages on Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, and Google Plus.\nThe Dalai Lama has tried to mobilize international support for Tibetan activities. The Dalai Lama has been successful in gaining Western support for himself and the cause of greater Tibetan autonomy or independence, including vocal support from numerous Hollywood celebrities, most notably the actors Richard Gere and Steven Seagal, as well as lawmakers from several major countries. Photos of the Dalai Lama were banned after March 1959 Lhasa protests until after the end of the Cultural Revolution in 1976. In 1996 the Chinese Communist Party once again reinstated the total prohibition of any photo of the 14th Dalai Lama. According to the Tibet Information Network, \"authorities in Tibet have begun banning photographs of the exiled Dalai Lama in monasteries and public places, according to reports from a monitoring group and a Tibetan newspaper. Plainclothes police went to hotels and restaurants in Lhasa, the Tibetan capital, on April 22 and 23 and ordered Tibetans to remove pictures of the Dalai Lama ... \" The ban continues in many locations throughout Tibet today.\n\nThe 14th Dalai Lama has appeared in several non-fiction films including:\n\n\nHe has been depicted as a character in various other movies and television programs including:\n\n\nTwo characters in the animation series' \"\" and \"The Legend of Korra\" were named after him. Avatar Aang's mentor (\"The Last Airbender\") and Aang's youngest son Tenzin (\"The Legend of Korra\").\n\nThe Dalai Lama was featured on the March 5, 2017, episode of the HBO late-night talk show \"Last Week Tonight\", in which host John Oliver conducted a comedic interview with the Dalai Lama, focusing on the topics of Tibetan sovereignty, Tibetan self-immolations, and his succession plans.\n\nThe Dalai Lama has received numerous awards over his spiritual and political career. In 1959, he received the Ramon Magsaysay Award for Community Leadership.\n\nOn 16 June 1988 the Dalai Lama was awarded the Dr. Leopold Lucas Prize on behalf of the Protestant faculty of the University of Tübingen by Professor Hans-Jürgen Hermisson who stated that the prize was awarded because of the Dalai Lama's important contribution to the promotion of dialogue between different religions and peoples as well as to his commitment to Tolerance and non-violence. The Dalai Lama donated the 50,000 DM prizefund to a German Charity active in Tibet.\n\nAfter the Tiananmen Square protests of 1989, the Norwegian Nobel Committee awarded the Dalai Lama the 1989 Nobel Peace Prize. The Committee officially gave the prize to the Dalai Lama for \"the struggle of the liberation of Tibet and the efforts for a peaceful resolution\" and \"in part a tribute to the memory of Mahatma Gandhi\" although the President of the Committee also said that the prize was intended to put pressure on China, which was reportedly infuriated that the award was given to a separatist.\n\nIn 1994, he received the Freedom Medal from the Roosevelt Institute.\n\nOn 28 May 2005, the Dalai Lama received the Christmas Humphreys Award from the Buddhist Society in the United Kingdom. On 22 June 2006, he became one of only six people ever to be recognised with Honorary Citizenship by the Governor General of Canada. In February 2007, the Dalai Lama was named \"Presidential Distinguished Professor\" at Emory University in Atlanta, Georgia; it was the first time that he accepted a university appointment.\n\nThe Dalai Lama was a 2007 recipient of the Congressional Gold Medal, the highest civilian award bestowed by American lawmakers. In 2012, the Dalai Lama was awarded the Templeton Prize. He later donated the entire prize money to an Indian charity, \"Save the Children\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14174648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14174648", "title": "2007 Bersih rally", "text": "2007 Bersih rally\n\nThe 2007 Bersih rally was a rally held in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, on 10 November 2007. The aim of this walk was to campaign for electoral reform. It was precipitated by allegations of corruption and discrepancies in the Malaysian election system that heavily favour the ruling political party, Barisan Nasional, which has been in power since Malaysia achieved its independence in 1957.\n\nMuch of the publicity for the rally was distributed through online media and blogs. Initially, the organisers planned to have a gathering point at Dataran Merdeka square. However, it was later revealed that this was a red herring to distract the police. The locations of the four gathering points were only released the day before the protests by word of mouth, mobile phones and emails.\n\nConsequently, the rally began with gatherings of people at four locations: Sogo department store, Masjid India, Masjid Negara and Pasar Seni. These four groups of people combined into a single group on their march towards the palace gates to hand over a memorandum to the King demanding electoral reform. Early estimates put the number of attendees between 10,000 and 40,000. Plans called for 100,000 people to join in the rally, and there are claims that this number was indeed achieved, as the many early estimates failed to include those who simultaneously gathered at different locations and those that were barred by police from continuing the walk.The title of the rally is derived from the name of the organizers, BERSIH (Coalition for Clean and Fair Elections). The word \"\" means clean in Malay.\n\nBefore the Bersih rally there is a Reformasi Movement in September 1998 caused by the sacking of previous Deputy Prime Minister, Anwar Ibrahim has massively formed a noteworthy change in the political scene in Malaysia. Supporters from all over went down to the lanes to show and bolster the call for Reformasi, which was driven by Anwar Ibrahim. Gigantic and exceptional demonstrations occurred in Kuala Lumpur and other major cities. A fascinating angle to note, in the meantime, the administration of Malaysia is endlessly grasping the universe of Information Technology. The Multimedia Super Corridor (MSC) denoted a fresh start for Malaysia, as it looks to be a world leader in Information Technology.\n\nNext is The Political Tsunami Changes Malaysian Politics. This is a political wave. Much the same as the normal tidal wave that never gives any sign it happens. In any case, when the topographical plate unexpectedly shiftdeform and vertically uproot the overlying water, it can create an awesome tsunami. During this time, the political torrent cleared away 50% of the Barisan Nasional (BN) coalition's energy. Nobody expected such outcomes, included BN and the resistance as there was no obvious sign before the decisions. Without a doubt, BN has been mentally arranged. It anticipated that would lose dominant part of Indian votes and part of Chinese votes. In any case, it was sure to win the national surveys by acquiring the majority of Malay votes and backings from Sabah and Sarawak. In view of this certainty, it held an early races.Therefore, the individuals who have been required to lose lost severely while the individuals who were not anticipated that would lose, lost a great deal. BN did not only lose Indian and Chinese vote but rather Malay votes in urban regions, and additionally in Northern Malaysia and the East Coast. This is not quite the same as the influential current in 1990 and 1999. Resistance parties framed a coalition to battle with BN coalition in 1990. In the long run, Malay voters stressed that progressions may cause them lose the decision control. In this way, they surrendered Tengku Razaleigh Hamzah and upheld United Malays National Organization. In spite of most Chinese voted in favor of the resistance, yet the restriction fizzled without the help from others. \n\nThe demands made by Bersih were:\n\nThese demands were incorporated into the Memorandum for submission to the Yang di-Pertuan Agong.Reformasi shakes Mahathir's authoritarian regime was political onlookers' fundamental concern. From a historical point of view voters' decision could realize a two-party system and end BN's overwhelming one-party dominion. This was the expectation of majority rule government followers. This awesome coalition planned to take over one third of the seats in parliament, end the matchless quality of the BN and constrain Mahathir to venture down.\n\nInitially, organisers decided on two locations for rally participants to gather before marching on to the Istana Negara: Masjid Negara and Dataran Merdeka, two of the most significant landmarks in Kuala Lumpur. However, the day before the rallies were due, the organisers decided to change the locations to Sogo department store, Masjid India, Masjid Negara and Pasar Seni, in an attempt to divert riot police's attention. Furthermore, a decoy of 500 people were sent to Dataran Merdeka to 'attempt' to get into the square.\n\nIn the days leading up to the rally, the government warned Malaysians not to take part in the rally as an official permit had not been granted. Citizens were warned that anyone who turned up and participate in the rally would be immediately arrested, because the rally is deemed as illegal since the current Malaysian law bans public gatherings of more than five persons without a permit. However, it should be noted that in July last year, a police permit has released for Umno Youth to hold a protest to demand that the US and Israel end the violence in the Middle East, while US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice was in Kuala Lumpur for a meeting with Asean leaders.\n\nLocal television channels, controlled by the ruling party, continually showed video footage of violent protests from other countries, complemented by the tagline \"Demonstration always ends in violence.\" The Prime Minister of Malaysia, Abdullah Badawi, was quoted saying \"Saya pantang dicabar\" (translation: I will not be challenged). He urged Malaysians to use elections to give their feedback. He had vowed to crack down on the rally and gave his permission to the police to break up the rally and possibly arrest its participants.\n\nHours before the rally was due to occur, thousands of police were stationed around Merdeka Square, and traffic coming into Kuala Lumpur had to pass through numerous security checkpoints, some saying checkpoints began at Pagoh, Johor and Kemaman, Terrengganu. This created widespread traffic congestion throughout the entire Klang Valley area. Although it was claimed by the government that the actual rally was the cause of the jam, other sources contradicted this, stating that the numerous barricades and roadblocks set up by police officers were the direct source of the congestion.\n\nAuthorities also made changes to the train schedule in an attempt to make it more difficult for people to reach the rally area. Trains on the Kelana Jaya LRT line coming into the city from Kelana Jaya, which normally stop at Pasar Seni and Masjid Jamek, instead bypassed those stations, going from KL Sentral directly to Dang Wangi Station. Passengers were not given any warning of this and many did not realise they would not be able to stop at these stations until the train was already on its way to Dang Wangi or Sentral.\n\nDuring the rally, the police responded by firing chemical laced water cannons and tear gas at rally participants at the Masjid Jamek and Bandaraya LRT meeting points. 245 people were arrested according to the local daily newspapers The Star, owned by MCA, one of the coalition parties of the current ruling government. Independent sources, however, quoted only 34 people were arrested and released the night later.\n\nPurportedly, the organisers of BERSIH had ordered participants to be cooperative and the assembly was to remain peaceful at all times.\n\nForeign media such as Al-Jazeera covered the event with detailed videos and ground and satellite images. BBC and CNN featured the news in their online papers as well. \"Bangkok Post\" published this event on its internet edition and fine print.\n\nThe event received almost no coverage in the local media. The most widely circulated English daily, \"The Star\" only reported a traffic congestion. Other print dailies did not report the incident.\n\nPrime Minister Abdullah Ahmad Badawi remarked that the Malaysian Royalty should not be dragged into Malaysian politics. He further alleged that the rally constituted an attempt by the Opposition to drag the Yang di-Pertuan Agong into the issue. Constitutionally, the Yang di-Pertuan Agong is the Head of the State while the Prime Minister is the Head of Government. Earlier, BERSIH had informed the public that the rally is a non-partisan activity, agreed by all organisers with NGOs (non-governmental organisations) forming the principal backbone of the movement, followed by some opposition parties.\n\nBERSIH had earlier insisted the rally was non-partisan; however, no parties from the ruling Barisan Nasional coalition participated. In fact, there was a cry for a clampdown on the rally by delegates and hard-liners in the 2007 UMNO Annual General Meeting.\n\nLater, Information Minister Datuk Seri Zainuddin Maidin criticised Al-Jazeera, denying reports that the police used excessive force in the demonstration. Zainuddin said that the police had to disperse the gathering with water cannons and tear gas since the rally was illegal. There are online allegations that certain journalists and civilians were beaten by authorities. Mainstream media confirmed arrests of people who had joined the rally. Most Malaysian media outlets generally gave the number of protesters present as approximately 4,000, although independent and international media reported a turnout ten times higher. Zainuddin Maidin was severely criticised in various socio-political blogs for his poor command of English shown during an interview with the Qatar-based news group Al-Jazeera regarding the rally.\n\nLater the people marched towards Istana Negara to hand over the memorandum after many attempts (from the police) to disperse the mob failed. Some had travelled from other states to claim their rights.\n\nNazri Aziz, from the ruling party UMNO gave a negative response. He claimed there is democracy in Malaysia, therefore there is no necessity for a rally.\n\nNazri further predicted that the opposition parties \"are going to lose, and they are going to lose badly in the next elections\". He also insisted that Malaysia was a democracy, thus invalidating comparisons with Myanmar because the Buddhist monks in Myanmar were protesting for the restoration of democracy in a country where the people were oppressed.\n\nHowever, Nazri did not admit that protest is allowed in democracies. BERSIH demands, with support from citizens for the restoration of genuine democracy. Unclean elections due to unfair electoral processes is equivalent to false or absent democracy.\n\nMoreover, both Myanmar and Malaysia crack down on rallies and protests not permitted by the government. Human Rights associations across the world regard freedom to assemble and rally as fundamental rights of a citizen in democratic nations.\n\nAccording to Malaysiakini, Yang di-Pertuan Agong Tuanku Mizan Zainal Abdidin in a rare press statement said neither he nor Istana Negara had directly or indirectly supported the massive rally held over the weekend in Kuala Lumpur.\n\nAccording to Bernama, the King, in a statement issued via a palace official, expressed regret over the claim that he and the palace had supported Saturday’s illegal gathering.\n\nOn 29 November 2007, the AFP carried a comment by an anonymous official from the United States State Department stating that \"We believe citizens of any country should be allowed to peacefully assemble and express their views.\"\n\nIt was reported that the rally participants played a 'cat and mouse' game with the riot police, as many of the groups were repeatedly stopped by the police and disallowed from continuing.\n\nThe group from Masjid Jamek were sprayed with water cannons and tear gas canisters, but still managed to continue their march by joining the group congregating in front of the Sogo departmental store.\n\nThe group from Pasar Seni, led by Tian Chua attempted to pass through police barricades that blocked them from approaching the palace. This group also tried to negotiate with the police. As the negotiations were going on, this group found an alley that was not guarded by riot police, hence being able to bypass the police to get to the palace.\n\n500 people from the Pasar Seni group joined part of the Sogo group to continue their march. Meanwhile, 10,000 people from Masjid Negara had begun marching to Istana Negara. They split into two groups to increase the chance of reaching Istana Negara.\n\nA combined group of 40,000 people, stretching half a kilometre long along the highway were stopped by police 300 meters from the palace grounds. They were eventually joined by the group from Masjid Jamek and Sogo.\n\nPolice allowed a delegation of 7 people, including PAS's President Abdul Hadi Awang and Nasharuddin Mat Isa, DAP’s Lim Kit Siang and Lim Guan Eng and Keadilan's Datuk Seri Anwar Ibrahim to enter the palace.\n\nAfter the memorandum was handed over to a palace secretary, most of the rally participants were seen walking back to Masjid Negara. About 20 people had been arrested earlier in the day and were held at Pudu police station. When they finally arrived at Masjid Negara, they were told to go home. Some of the rally participants went to the Pudu police station to support those who were detained.\n\nFor 2008, voters never again settled on choice based on race and shading. Resistance votes in urban zones, blended bodies electorate that cast by Chinese, Indians and Malays helped the opposition to pick up triumph.\nThe reasons are, first is changes in the social environment. Regarding social condition BN has been confronting the antagonistic social atmosphere before the elections. Financially, the surge of costs has shaped an awesome weight to the citizens, particularly the individuals who live in urban communities.\n\nSeconds is changes in civic thought. The political structure of BN coalition was as yet in view of race in which each gathering worried without anyone else racial belief system to gain support from their racial gatherings. At that point, pioneers of each gatherings collaborated and circulated control in the best administration. This structure has been kept up for half of a century and assumed its chronicled part, and also effectively settled some racial issues. In any case, there were a few shortcomings for the structure. As each gathering was battling for the interests of their races, it was absence of regular standards and objectives and prompted logical inconsistencies in strategies and goals. Segment parties at first made due on such conveyance of energy yet as time advances, bigotry has been bit by bit obsolete and the general national intrigue has gone past racial interests. \n\nThere are confinements for racial gatherings and it is difficult to keep up the need of national solidarity. Under these twofold weights, the topic of the BN's statement that still worried on peace, dependability and flourishing has been conflicting with the prerequisites of the general population. Like the riptide underneath the ocean, BN coalition, who has ruled the nation for half of a century couldn't control the change of the general population's idea. Generally, the restriction was bolstered by the general population as it accentuated on issues like bringing down oil costs, enhancing lawfulness, lessening the hole between the rich and poor people and battling against debasement which were in accordance with the social environment and steady with the general population's desires. The belief system of the restriction has deserted racial and religious issues however yelled for change and underlined on social equity, vote based system and equity. \n\nDemocratic Action Party's (DAP) wish to convey changes to the nation, Parti Keadilan Rakyat's (PKR) support of Divide and Rule and Parti Islam Se-Malaysia's (PAS) thought of having a welfare nation picked up them reverberation from the general population. The restriction cooperated and angled votes in favor of each other to reinforce their energy. Furthermore, PKR has exited from the shadow of Anwar while Anwar demonstrated his charm that effectively transformed the gathering into an ordinary political gathering and another constrain. Malaysia would have another face after the political tidal wave. The energy of BN coalition has declined and it needs to depend on Sabah, Sarawak and Southern Malaysia to keep up its decision control. There will be real authority changes in UMNO, MCA, MIC and Gerakan. What's more, the belief systems of BN coalition's segment parties must be balanced. Relinquishing racial segment would be an exit plan. With respect to the resistance, they won't not have the capacity to deal with to sudden triumph in the decisions, particularly for DAP and Keadilan who won control of states and extended their impacts in the Parliament ought to.\n\nThe ascent of the Reformasi development in the late 1990s was a noteworthy point of reference in the democratization procedure in Malaysia. Amid the period before the Reformasi development, exceptional monetary development rendered a feeling of authenticity to the tyrant run; in any case, the budgetary emergency in 1997 opened the way to the introduction of the Reformasi development.\nNair (2007) portrayed the Reformasi development as a reaction from the general population to the tyrant govern of the decision administration. They requested government straightforwardness, responsibility and trustworthiness. In spite of the fact that the development secured an extensive variety of issues and causes, it was fixated on the manhandle of energy by the administration.\nThe Reformasi development prompted political changes in Malaysia, especially with respect to the dispositions of government officials. This study concentrates on political changes regarding casual political changes, for example, changes in political talks, and changes in the political procedures of the decision administration. Formal political changes, for example, the democratization of organized political framework, are yet to have critical effect on social developments, in spite of the fact that measures are presently being taken, for example, the abolishment of the Internal Security Act (ISA), beginning on 16 September 2011, and the foundation of an extraordinary board of trustees on appointive change.\n\nThe Reformasi development began after an uncommon droop in monetary development. All of the country's organizations crumpled, including those claimed by the child of the fourth Prime Minister, Dr. Mahathir Mohamad. Amid the emergency, Mahathir trained Anwar Ibrahim, the Deputy Prime Minister who held the post as the Finance Minister, to salvage the organizations possessed by Mahathir's friends. Anwar declined to take after Mahathir's directions with respect to the utilization of open assets and firmly proposed that it was essential for the administration to get subsidizing from the International Monetary Fund (IMF) to manage its economy. Mahathir was against this arrangement and guaranteed that accepting assets from the IMF would additionally reinforce the intercession of worldwide associations and undermine Malaysia's power.\n\nThe Reformasi development was an essential driving force for the democratization procedure in Malaysia. Before the development, the restriction parties were feeble, divided and withered due to wide contrasts in the philosophies of the two greatest resistance parties, Parti Islam Se-Malaysia (PAS or Pan-Malaysian Islamic Party) and Parti Tindakan Demokratik (DAP or Democratic Action Party). While PAS required an Islamic state, DAP was a liberal-mainstream party battling for a Malaysian Malaysia; this made it troublesome for the two parties to coordinate.\n\nThe development inevitably changed into its own political gathering and partnership, prompting the foundation of both the Parti Keadilan Nasional (PKN or National Justice Party) and the Barisan Alternatif (BA or Alternative Front). Together with PAS and DAP, they concurred on a liberal motivation to restrict the Barisan Nasional (BN or National Front) in the 1999 general decision. Their pronouncement focused on multi-racial and human rights issues, the destruction of destitution and the battle against government defilement and mishandle of energy. In the decisions, they effectively diminished the quantity of seats held by the decision party, yet at the same time couldn't overwhelm its two-third larger part. The coalition effectively won 45 situates in the parliamentary race, which was somewhat higher than the past decision, while the administration won 148 seats, exhibiting a lessening from the past race. BA likewise won 40.21% of the aggregate vote (Ufen, 2009).\n\nThe Reformasi development is itself a piece of the democratization procedure, going about as an impetus for its dynamic advancement. The development turned into an essential factor in deciding the voting result of the following two general races. To comprehend the democratization procedure in Malaysia, accordingly, it is pivotal to comprehend the route in which the ensuing two general decisions influenced the political structure and in this manner gave the political chance to social developments to create.\n\n\"A Chinese tsunami\" was the means by which the result of the distinctly challenged Thirteenth General Elections (GE13) came to be portrayed by Najib Razak and other Barisan Nasional (BN) pioneers on the night of 5 May 2013 (Tan, 2013). The symbolism was a solid articulation of frustration by BN pioneers of how the absence of Chinese help had prompted lost seats by the decision coalition. In the quick consequence of GE13, a few spectators fight that the outcomes have exacerbated the ethnic partition in the nation. In displaying the GE13 comes about as a Chinese tidal wave there has been a reaction from specific groups inside UMNO against the non-Malays (Muzaffar, 2013). Explanations and editorials leaving the genius UMNO media depicted the Chinese votes in favor of the resistance as a selling out. \n\nSome guaranteed that the Chinese, not being content with control of the economy are resolved to seizing political power. They cautioned of Malay striking back and proposed that those not content with BN move somewhere else. Such calls were first made by Ahmad Zahid Hamidi because of mass revives sorted out by PR to challenge the decision comes about under the flag of \"Dark 505\". Still others required a blacklist of Chinese organizations that had upheld the resistance. Inside UMNO there is a commotion for harder and that's only the tip of the iceberg tyrant reaction to commentators of the legislature and the restriction. To be sure, captures were made not long after GE13 against those arranging energizes and challenge social occasions. Rafizi Ramli, the PKR procedure executive who had conveyed to open consideration the National Feedlot Center (NFC) outrage was charged under the Keeping Money and Financial Institutions Act for uncovering data identified with the NFC. Government commentators considered this to be an endeavor to threaten those trying to uncover wrongdoings in government. In the interim, duplicates of three resistance daily papers were seized for abusing the Printing Presses and Publications Act. \n\nA few months after the fact, another week by week The Heat was suspended, evidently for its front-page story on the lavish way of life of the Prime Minister and his significant other (The Malaysian Insider, 2013a).\nThe UMNO initiative, understanding that it was Malay help particularly those in the rustic zones that hosted encouraged the get-together to survive GE13 quickly moved to give more consideration and monetary prizes to this voting demographic. On 14 September 2013, Najib Razak reported the development of the Bumiputera Monetary Empowerment Council. The committee would present new measures . furthermore, procedures to monetarily engage the Bumiputera (New Straits Times, 2013a). Focuses towards the board's destinations would be set for all boss official officers of government-connected organizations (GLCs). To upgrade Bumiputera value possession in the corporate segment, the Skim Amanah Saham Bumiputera 2 would be propelled by Permodalan Nasional Bhd with 10 billion units. Shahrir Abdul Samad, an UMNO veteran pioneer and MP for Johor Bahru, took a more extensive view in his evaluation of why non-Malays voted in favor of the resistance. \nHe recognized that the rule of balance upheld by the DAP was a factor that drew numerous non-Malay votes in favor of PR. Not exclusively are non-Malays looking for break even with circumstances and get to, Shahrir trusted that non-Malays are focused on protecting Malaysia as a mainstream state. On the off chance that BN would like to recover bolster in GE14, Shahrir held that there must be better administration under UMNO and BN (The Malaysian Insider, 2013b; Free Malaysia Today, 2013a).\n\nAt long last, the youthful Chinese are today more worried about more extensive issues that go past mutual interests. Break even with circumstances in instruction,work and business are issues that are as yet essential to them. Be that as it may, the youthful Chinese set these inside the bigger national structure of between ethnic collaboration, equity and human rights, and defending of nature (Lee,2011). Thus numerous youthful Chinese experts are attracted to NGOs and common society developments. Also, in the event that they take part in legislative issues they join multi-ethnic parties. Moreover, a few supporters of PR battle that the three gatherings of DAP, PKR and PAS offer a superior similarity of political equality and that each heads a Pakatan-drove government in Pulau Pinang, Selangor and Kelantan.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25902543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25902543", "title": "Article 12 of the Constitution of Singapore", "text": "Article 12 of the Constitution of Singapore\n\nArticle 12 of the Constitution of the Republic of Singapore guarantees to all persons equality before the law and equal protection of the law. The Article also identifies four forbidden classifications – religion, race, descent and place of birth – upon which Singapore citizens may not be discriminated for specific reasons. For example, discrimination on those classifications is prohibited in the appointment to any office or employment under a public authority or in the administration of any law relating to the establishing or carrying on of any trade, business, profession, vocation or employment.\n\nPersons unable to show that one of the forbidden classifications applies to them may try to argue that they are members of a group defined by a law in a way that violates the general guarantee of equality and equal protection. To succeed, they must establish that the classification used in the law fails the rational nexus test, which is a three-stage test formulated by the courts. The first stage of the test involves an examination as to whether the law differentiates amongst classes of individuals. At the second stage, the court considers if the differentiation is founded on an intelligible differentia or distinguishing feature. Finally, the basis of the differentiation must bear a reasonable relation to the object of the statute. However, the test is not foolproof as a classification may satisfy the test even if the object of the law is itself illegitimate. The rational nexus test, as it is currently applied in Singapore, also tolerates over- and under-inclusive classifications. It remains to be seen if local courts will consider other approaches to the issue, such as the three-tier system of scrutiny applied in the United States, the proportionality analysis applied in the United Kingdom to other areas of human rights law, or the reasonableness approach taken by some judges in India and Malaysia.\n\nThe rational nexus test does not apply where a statute treats all persons equally, but it is alleged that the authorities have applied the statute in a discriminatory manner. Instead, a modified rational nexus test is used, which requires a court to consider whether there is a reasonable nexus between the state action taken and the object of the law. Such a nexus will be absent if the action amounts to intentional and arbitrary discrimination or intentional systematic discrimination. It is insufficient if any inequality is due to inadvertence or inefficiency, unless this occurs on a very substantial scale. In addition, inequalities arising from a reasonable administrative policy or which are mere errors of judgment are insufficient to constitute a violation of Article 12(1).\n\nArticle 12(3) of the Constitution provides that Article 12 does not invalidate or prohibit any provision regulating personal law; or any provision or practice restricting office or employment connected with the affairs of any religion, or of an institution managed by a group professing any religion, to persons professing that religion.\n\nArticle 12 of the Constitution of the Republic of Singapore is entitled \"Equal protection\" and reads as follows:\n\nIn the 1998 decision \"Public Prosecutor v. Taw Cheng Kong\", the Court of Appeal regarded the concept of equality as a component of the wider doctrine of the rule of law, and traced its origin to the 40th article of the Magna Carta of 1215 which states: \"To none will we sell, to none will we deny, to none will we delay right or justice.\" Article 12(1) of the Constitution bears a strong resemblance to the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution which prohibits any state from denying \"to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws\", and to Article 14 of the Constitution of India which bars the state from denying \"to any person equality before the law or the equal protection of the laws within the territory of India\". Article 12(1) is identical to Article 8(1) of the Constitution of Malaysia, from which it was adopted following Singapore's independence from Malaysia in 1965.\n\nIn \"Lim Meng Suang v. Attorney-General\" (2013), the High Court noted that the concept of equality before the law is derived from English common law which requires all classes of persons to be equally subject to the law, while the concept of equal protection of the law stems from the US Constitution's Fourteenth Amendment and guarantees both procedural and substantive equality. The Court said:\n\nArticle 12(2) of the Constitution prohibits discrimination against Singapore citizens (unlike Article 12(1) which applies to \"all persons\") \"on the ground only of religion, race, descent or place of birth\" in the following situations:\n\n\nThe word \"only\" raises the possibility that discrimination may be permissible on the basis of one of the proscribed grounds in combination with some other factor, such as age or state of health.\n\nArticle 12(2) is subject to an express contrary authorization by the Constitution. Article 39A empowers the Legislature to ensure that members of the Malay, Indian and other minority communities are represented in Parliament by enacting a law to create Group Representation Constituencies (GRCs). Each voter in a GRC casts his or her ballot for a team of candidates, at least one of whom must be from a minority community. Article 39A(3) exempts any provision enacted by Parliament pursuant to Article 39A from being void due to inconsistency with Article 12.\n\nAnother provision that is rescued from potential invalidity by Article 12(2) is the Government's constitutional mandate to exercise its functions in such a way as to recognize the special position of the Malays, who are the indigenous people of Singapore. The Government has a responsibility to \"protect, safeguard, support, foster and promote their political, educational, religious, economic, social and cultural interests and the Malay language\". The Constitution also requires the Legislature to enact legislation to regulate Muslim religious affairs and to establish a council to advise the President concerning matters relating to Islam. The legislation in question is the Administration of Muslim Law Act.\n\nAggrieved persons who cannot avail themselves of the protection afforded by Article 12(2) may try to argue that they are a member of a group defined by a law in a way that violates Article 12(1). The rational nexus test, also known as the doctrine of reasonable classification, is a three-stage test formulated by the courts to determine if the manner in which a law classifies a group of persons is discriminatory. The equality guaranteed by the provision is a relative and not an absolute concept; it does not require that all persons are treated alike, but rather that all persons in like situations should be treated alike. Consequently, a law that differentiates between classes of persons is valid and constitutional provided that there is some difference in circumstances, and the factor which the legislature adopts as constituting the dissimilarity in circumstances is not purely arbitrary but bears a reasonable relation to the legislative object of the law. If there is no such relationship, the difference is discriminatory and the impugned legislation is unconstitutional and invalid.\n\nIn 1909, the Supreme Court of the United States propounded a test to determine the reasonableness of a classification, stating that the classification \"must always rest upon some real and substantial distinction bearing a reasonable and just relation to the things in respect to which the classification is made\". Based on this principle, the Supreme Court of India subsequently formulated a two-stage test to determine if a classification made by a law was constitutional. The relevant stages were (1) whether the classification was founded on an intelligible differentia; and (2) whether the differentia had a rational relation to the object sought to be achieved by the law in question.\n\nThe Federal Court of Malaysia later adapted the rational nexus test by including an additional preceding stage, namely, whether the law was discriminatory. This three-stage inquiry was accepted in Singapore in the case \"Kok Hoong Tan Dennis v. Public Prosecutor\" (1996).\n\nThe test that is currently followed in Singapore was re-expressed by the Court of Appeal in \"Taw Cheng Kong\" (1998) as comprising three stages:\n\n\nThe purpose of the test is to ensure that the right to equal protection is upheld by guarding against three forms of arbitrariness. First, individuals in the same class must share common features and should not be classified arbitrarily. Secondly, the treatment of persons falling within the same class must not be arbitrary. Lastly, the basis of classification must not be arbitrary but should bear a reasonable relationship to the object of the executive action. The stages of the rational nexus test directly address these forms of arbitrariness. As such, a law that satisfies all the stages of the test will be found to be valid and constitutional.\n\nThe first stage of the test considers whether the law prescribes different treatment for one group of individuals as against other groups. For example, in the 1998 High Court decision \"Taw Cheng Kong v. Public Prosecutor\", Judge of Appeal M. Karthigesu found that the Prevention of Corruption Act differentiated between classes of people as it renders some, but not all, persons open to criminal prosecution in Singapore for offences committed outside Singapore.\n\nWhile earlier cases expressed this stage of the test as a determination of whether a law is discriminatory, the Court of Appeal has warned against the confusing of the concepts of differentiation and discrimination. A differentiating law is one that draws distinctions between groups of people. A discriminatory law or executive act, on the other hand, is one that contravenes Article 12(1) and hence is unconstitutional. Therefore, the mere finding of a differentiating measure in this first stage does not necessarily make the law discriminatory, as the other two stages will still have to be taken into consideration. If the impugned statute does not contain such a differentiating measure, it is a good law and the objection fails.\n\nEven if a differentiating measure is found, there is a strong presumption that it is constitutional. The legislature must necessarily have a wide power of classification in making laws that operate differently for different groups of people in order to give effect to its policy. Unless the law is plainly arbitrary, suggesting examples of arbitrariness are not ordinarily helpful in rebutting this presumption of constitutionality. It is presumed that Parliament knows best for its people, and is experienced in making laws directed at societal problems, hence its differentiation is based on adequate grounds. Therefore, to rebut this presumption it is necessary for the person challenging the law to adduce some material or factual evidence to show that it was enacted arbitrarily or had operated arbitrarily.\n\nThe second stage of the rational nexus test looks at whether the basis for differentiation is founded on an intelligible differentia which distinguishes those who are grouped together from those left outside the group. To satisfy the second stage, there must be a discernible basis of classification. All persons being discriminated against by a law must share a common identifying mark that is not borne by those not discriminated against. Examples of such features include gender, age, race, religion, seniority of professional qualification and area of residence. Another feature that has been accepted by the courts as constituting an intelligible differentia is Singapore citizenship. Singling out a person or object with characteristics not peculiar to itself, but which may conceivably be found in other persons or objects, does not constitute classification. If there is no consistent means of identifying the persons treated differently, the differentiation is arbitrary and the law is invalid. If there is an intelligible differentia, the differentiation is not arbitrary in this sense and it is necessary to proceed to the third stage.\n\nEquality under Article 12(1) does not require that all persons are treated alike, but rather that all persons in like situations should be treated alike. Similarly, failing to treat differently persons whose situations are significantly different also amounts to inequality. As such, at the second stage the question to be considered is whether persons falling within the same class are treated equally. Article 12(1) prohibits laws which require that some individuals within a single class should be treated more harshly than others. However, the law is not unconstitutional if all persons discriminated against are equally discriminated against, and all persons not discriminated against are equally not discriminated against. The courts have found this stage to be satisfied where under a statute all citizens are equally liable to prosecution, whereas all non-citizens are equally immune from it. The second stage test was also found to have been satisfied where all members of the Singapore Congregation of Jehovah's Witnesses found to have been in violation of the Societies Act were treated equally.\n\nIn this stage, it is necessary to inquire into, firstly, the object of the statute, and secondly, whether the basis of differentiation against or for a particular class is a reasonable means of achieving such an object. The essence of the test is whether it is reasonable, taking into consideration the object of the statute, to distinguish between persons on the selected basis of differentiation. As such, it is necessary to ask how the differentiation against or for one particular class furthers the object of the statute. The law is not arbitrary if the basis for discrimination has a rational relation to the object sought to be achieved, and the statute will be declared valid and constitutional.\n\nIn \"Taw Cheng Kong\", the respondent challenged his conviction for corruption on the ground that section 37 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, which extends the effect of the Act to corrupt acts by Singapore citizens (but not non-citizens) occurring outside Singapore, discriminated against citizens and thus violated Article 12(1). The Court of Appeal held that the distinction drawn by the section 37 between citizens and non-citizens who are abroad is valid as it is a reasonable means of achieving the Act's object, which is to address acts of corruption taking place outside Singapore but affecting events within it. The exclusion of non-citizens from the ambit of section 37 observes international comity and the sovereignty of other nations.\n\nIn equal protection cases, the purpose of the law must be distilled before the reasonableness of a classification can be judged. When the purpose of the law is not explicitly stated, the court may conclude that there is no legitimate public purpose, assume that there is a legitimate public purpose but refuse to look for it, or draw some inferences as to what it is. When the purpose of the law is explicitly stated, the court may either accept it at face value; or challenge the integrity of the legislative declaration, looking behind the explicit purpose to determine the true purpose. In the latter situation, what is concerned is the discriminatory character of the legislation. The need to identify the legislative purpose has been said to involve the court in the \"thornier aspects of judicial review\", because it must either \"uncritically and often unrealistically accept a legislative avowal at face value\" or \"challenge legislative integrity and push beyond the express statement into unconfined realms of inference\". The court must then \"make a judgment as to the purity of legislative motive and ... determine the legitimacy of the end\".\n\nThis step is necessary because the rational nexus test is not foolproof. The test is based on the presumption that the legislative object itself is not in violation of the Constitution. However, if the object of the statute is itself illegitimate, a classification may be invalid even if it satisfies the test. Hence, the test is only applicable if the object of the impugned legislation is a proper one.\n\nIn India, a solution was proffered by means of a more holistic approach to the constitutional promise of equality. In \"Maneka Gandhi v. Union of India\" (1978), the learned Justice Prafullachandra Natwarlal Bhagwati noted that \"an essential element of equality pervades Article 14\", the equivalent of Singapore's Article 12. With that as a starting point, he went on to assert that \"the procedure ... must be right and just and fair and not arbitrary\". The judge in \"Maneka Gandhi\" therefore spoke for a dynamic approach to equality, one that should not be \"subjected to a narrow, pedantic or lexicographic approach\". This more liberal approach, which accords courts the latitude to deal with legislation backed by arbitrary or unreasonable objectives, was cited with approval in Malaysia by the learned Judge of the Court of Appeal Gopal Sri Ram in \"Tan Tek Seng v. Suruhanjaya Perkhidmatan Pendidikan\" (1996). It is unclear, though, if this test will be applied in Singapore due to a dearth of case law on the matter.\n\nAnother problem encountered when applying the rational nexus test is that of over- and under-inclusiveness. Under-inclusiveness occurs when the legislative classification fails to embrace all persons within the ambit of the objective sought to be achieved by the law. On the other hand, over-inclusiveness occurs when the classification not only embraces persons within the ambit of the legislative objective, but also persons outside it. Both over- and under-inclusiveness are currently tolerated in Singapore under the rational nexus test, as a classification can still bear a rational relation to the legislative objective notwithstanding that it embraces more or less persons than its object requires.\n\nIt has been argued that this results in the different treatment of persons in like situations, and thus violates Article 12(1). Although a rational connection exists between the classification adopted and the legislative object, the effect of an under-inclusive classification is to accord different treatment to persons similarly placed. However, the courts have often justified under-inclusiveness on the ground that the legislature is free to recognize degrees of harm, to confine its restrictions to cases where the need is felt to be the greatest, and to advance its policies step by step. Despite this, resort to legislative wisdom to justify under-inclusiveness, if used indiscriminately, may result in the watering down of the equal protection guarantee provided by Article 12(1).\n\nSimilarly, where an over-inclusive classification is concerned, a rational relation still exists between the differentia adopted and the legislative object. Thus, it is tolerated under the rational nexus test in Singapore. While the effect of an over-inclusive classification may be to accord similar treatment to persons differently placed, courts have nonetheless justified it on the ground that the exigencies of the situation require such classification. The US Supreme Court case \"Hirabayashi v. United States\" (1943) is an example of this principle. Following the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor on 7 December 1941, President Franklin D. Roosevelt issued an executive order requiring, among other things, all persons of Japanese ancestry within a designated military area to be \"within their place of residence between the hours of 8 p.m. and 6 a.m.\" and to report to the authorities to register for removal from the military area. The defendant, Gordon Hirabayashi, was convicted of violating the curfew and the registration requirement. The order was arguably over-inclusive as it did not distinguish between Japanese Americans who were loyal to the US and those in respect of which there was evidence of disloyalty. Although the Court noted that distinctions between citizens solely on the basis of ancestry \"are, by their very nature, odious to a free people whose institutions are founded upon the doctrine of equality\", because the US was at war with Japan the race-based classification bore a rational relation to the aim of the order, which was to protect from sabotage war materials and utilities in areas believed to be in danger of Japanese invasion and air attack. The Court said: \"We cannot close our eyes to the fact, demonstrated by experience, that, in time of war, residents having ethnic affiliations with an invading enemy may be a greater source of danger than those of a different ancestry.\"\n\nIn \"Taw Cheng Kong\", the High Court was of the view that section 37(1) of the Prevention of Corruption Act was both under- and over-inclusive. It did not apply to non-Singapore citizens such as permanent residents and foreigners working for the Government who received bribes for acts which would be done in Singapore. On the other hand, it would catch a Singapore citizen now a foreign permanent resident employed in a foreign country by a foreign government who received a bribe in relation to a transaction that had nothing to do with Singapore. For this reason, Karthigesu J. found section 37(1) to be unconstitutional since the nexus between the classification and section 37(1)'s objective was not reasonable enough to justify derogating from Article 12(1). The High Court's decision was reversed by the Court of Appeal, which held that the under-inclusiveness was not fatal because of the \"overriding need to observe international\ncomity\". In any case, \"[t]he enactment of a provision need not be seamless and perfect to cover every contingency. Such a demand would be legislatively impractical, if not impossible.\" The over-inclusiveness of section 37(1) was deemed irrelevant to the constitutional issue because the provision applied equally to all Singapore citizens.\n\nThe rational nexus test was applied in \"Mohamed Emran bin Mohamed Ali v. Public Prosecutor\" (2008), in which the High Court was faced with the issue of whether the failure to prosecute drug enforcement authorities in an entrapment case amounted to discrimination against the persons eventually charged with drug trafficking. The Court found that there was a \"perfectly rational nexus between entrapment operations and the socially desirable and laudable objective of containing the drug trade\" as convicting state agents who carried out covert operations would result in illicit drug suppliers prospering and flourishing while enforcement agencies would \"wither and perish\". Further, the exercise of the Attorney-General's prosecutorial discretion was an executive act which satisfied the rational nexus test and was therefore not in contravention of Article 12 of the Constitution.\n\nIn \"Yong Vui Kong v. Public Prosecutor\" (2010), the Court of Appeal had to determine the validity of a differentiating factor prescribed by the legislature for distinguishing between different classes of offenders for sentencing purposes. In that case, the differentiating factor was found in the Misuse of Drugs Act (\"MDA\"), which stipulated that an accused trafficking in more than of diamorphine (heroin) would result in him or her facing a mandatory death penalty upon conviction. Following its previous decision in \"Nguyen Tuong Van v. Public Prosecutor\" (2005), which had applied \"Ong Ah Chuan\", the Court applied the rational nexus test and found that the 15-gram differentia bore a reasonable relation to the social object of the MDA. The Court also noted that the \"quantity of addictive drugs trafficked is not only broadly proportionate to the quantity of addictive drugs brought onto the illicit market, but also broadly proportionate to the scale of operations of the drug dealer and, hence, broadly proportionate to the harm likely to be posed to society by the offender's crime.\" Although \"Taw Cheng Kong\" was not cited in this case, the test applied was substantially similar to that which it enunciated in \"Taw Cheng Kong\".\n\nIn other jurisdictions, courts have applied standards of judicial review more exacting than the rational nexus test in Singapore when deciding if a law is unconstitutional. It remains to be seen whether any of these approaches will be adopted locally.\n\nIn footnote 4 of \"United States v. Carolene Products Co.\" (1938), Justice Harlan F. Stone opined that where legislation was aimed at \"discrete and insular minorities\" who lack the normal protections of the political process, a more exacting standard of judicial review with no presumption of constitutionality should be applied.\n\nAt present in the United States there are three different levels of scrutiny. Firstly, if a law categorizes on the basis of race or national origin (which are regarded as suspect classifications), or infringes a fundamental right, strict scrutiny is applied. Accordingly, the law is unconstitutional unless it is narrowly tailored to serve a compelling government interest. In addition, there should not be a less restrictive alternative available to achieve that compelling interest. Secondly, if the law categorizes on the basis of gender, legitimacy or similar quasi-suspect classifications, intermediate scrutiny is applied – the law is unconstitutional unless it is substantially related to an important government interest. Finally, the traditional rational basis review is applied if the law categorizes on some other, non-suspect, basis. In this case, the law is constitutional so long as it is reasonably related to a legitimate government interest.\n\nIn \"Malaysian Bar v. Government of Malaysia\" (1987), the Supreme Court of Malaysia referred to the strict scrutiny approach but asserted that in reality it was not very different from the traditional rational nexus standard, which it then proceeded to apply. The Court's endorsement of strict scrutiny was much less ambiguous in \"Government of Malaysia v. V.R. Menon\" (1990). It held that the impugned Act was concerned with economic and social welfare and not fundamental rights, and therefore the trial judge had erred in applying a stricter standard of review. As such, the court implicitly endorsed the application of the strict scrutiny test in cases concerning fundamental rights in Malaysia.\n\nThere are several criticisms of the three-tiered scrutiny analysis, the most compelling reason against its adoption arguably being that it does not control judicial discretion: the identification of classifications as suspect, quasi-suspect or non-suspect involves unconstrained balancing of public and private interests, and political and social interests.\n\nThe test of proportionality in English law, which is applied to determine whether a fundamental right is appropriately restricted by legislation, has three limbs:\n\n\nIt has been suggested that a proportionality analysis better safeguards equality compared to the American three-tiered scrutiny approach. The third limb of the proportionality test may also serve to strike down over-inclusive classifications which are currently tolerated under the rational nexus test.\n\nIn \"Maneka Gandhi\", Bhagwati J. appeared to suggest that the rational nexus test should not be applied to Article 14 of the Indian Constitution, which guarantees equality before the law and equal protection of the law, because it led to a narrow and pedantic interpretation of the provision. He held that Article 14 should not be construed too narrowly as it was the pillar on which the foundation of the Indian Democratic Republic rested. In his view, the principle of reasonableness was an essential element of equality or non-arbitrariness, and it pervaded Article 14 \"like a brooding omnipresence\".\n\nA test of reasonableness was applied to Article 8(1) of the Malaysian Constitution in some cases, but it was later rejected by the Federal Court in \"Danaharta Urus Sdn. Bhd. v. Kekatong Sdn. Bhd.\" (2004). The Court noted that in cases subsequent to \"Maneka Gandhi\" the reasonable classification test had been applied, even by Bhagwati J. himself. Furthermore, equality under Article 8(1) does not mean absolute equality, but only assures the right to equal treatment with other individuals in similar circumstances. The rational nexus test is needed to determine if a law applies equally to all persons in the same group, and is therefore an \"integral part\" of Article 8(1).\n\nThe traditional \"Taw Cheng Kong\" rational nexus test is inappropriate where the issue is not the existence of discriminatory classification in a statute, but discriminatory application of a neutral statute. This is because the statute would inevitably pass the test as the answer to whether the legislation in question differentiates between different classes of persons (stage 1 of the \"Taw Cheng Kong\" test) will always be in the negative. In \"Eng Foong Ho v. Attorney-General\" (2009), Judge of Appeal Andrew Phang, delivering the judgment of the Court of Appeal, applied a modified form of the \"Taw Cheng Kong\" test, holding that \"[t]he question is whether there is a reasonable nexus between the state action and the objective to be achieved by the law\".\n\nPhang J.A. relied on the principles set out in the Privy Council cases \"Howe Yoon Chong v. Chief Assessor\" (1980) and \"Howe Yoon Chong v. Chief Assessor\" (1990), drawing the following salient points from them:\n\n\nThio Li-ann has expressed the view that Phang J.A.'s approach in \"Eng Foong Ho\" leaves room for judicial clarification. An important question is whether the \"intentional and arbitrary discrimination\" test, which implies the lack of any rationality, is the sole test for proving that an executive act violates Article 12, or only one possible test. If it is the only test, then the need to prove the absence of rationality is excessively onerous for the plaintiff to satisfy, compared to the \"reasonable classification\" test. She posits that it is preferable for both the \"intentional and arbitrary discrimination\" test and the \"reasonable classification\" test to apply to executive acts.\n\nArticle 12(3) of the Constitution provides that Article 12 does not invalidate or prohibit any provision regulating personal law; or any provision or practice restricting office or employment connected with the affairs of any religion, or of an institution managed by a group professing any religion, to persons professing that religion.\n\nPersonal law is the law governing a person's family matters. In \"Shafeeg bin Salim Talib v. Fatimah binte Abud bin Talib\" (2009), the High Court identified a number of personal laws, including the Intestate Succession Act which does not apply to Muslims; and regulations 103(2) and (3) of the Prisons Regulations, which respectively state that Jewish prisoners can claim an exemption against working on Saturdays and may observe certain festival days as may be allowed by the Government, and that Muslim prisoners may fast during Ramadan and have their work reduced during this period.\n\nA number of private Acts establishing religious organizations expressly confine membership of their governing boards to persons professing the respective religions. For instance, a person may only be appointed to the Hindu Endowments Board, which administers Hindu religious and charitable endowments, if he or she is Hindu. Similarly, one may only be a member of the Central Sikh Gurdwara Board, which manages \"gurdwaras\" (Sikh temples) in Singapore, if one professes the Sikh faith.\n\nArticle 149(1) immunizes the Internal Security Act from invalidity due to inconsistency with five of the fundamental liberty provisions in the Constitution, including Article 12. The reference to Article 12 in Article 149(1) was enacted by Parliament in 1989 to reverse the effect of \"Chng Suan Tze v. Minister for Home Affairs\" (1988), in which the Court of Appeal expressed the view that sections 8 and 10 of the Act violated Article 12(1).\n\nArticle 16(1) of the Constitution prohibits discrimination against citizens of Singapore on the ground only of religion, race, descent or place of birth in the administration of public educational institutions (and, in particular, as regards the admission of students or the payment of fees), and in providing financial aid from public funds for the maintenance or education of students in any educational institution. This provision is stated to be \"[w]ithout prejudice to the generality of Article 12\". Article 16(2) declares that religious groups have the right to establish and maintain institutions for the education of children and to provide them religious instruction in those institutions, but there must not be any discrimination on the ground only of religion in laws relating to such institutions or the administration of such laws.\n\nArticle 154 states that all persons who are in the same Government service grade must be treated impartially regardless of their race, subject to the terms and conditions of their employment and to other provisions of the Constitution.\n\nThe Constitution also establishes a procedure for ensuring that statutes do not contain \"differentiating measures\", that is, measures which discriminate against any racial or religious community. Most bills that have been passed by Parliament must be scrutinized by a non-elected advisory body called the Presidential Council for Minority Rights (PCMR), which must report to the Speaker of Parliament if it is of the view that any clause in a bill contains a differentiating measure. If the PCMR submits an adverse report, Parliament can either make amendments to the bill and resubmit it to the Council for approval, or decide to present the bill for the President's assent nonetheless provided that a Parliamentary motion for such action has been passed by at least two-thirds of all Members of Parliament. The PCMR has not rendered any adverse reports since it was set up in 1970.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2228016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2228016", "title": "Association of ideas", "text": "Association of ideas\n\nAssociation of ideas, or mental association, is a process by which representations arise in consciousness, and also for a principle put forward by an important historical school of thinkers to account generally for the succession of mental phenomena. The term is now used mostly in the history of philosophy and of psychology. One idea was thought to follow another in consciousness if it were associated by some principle. The three commonly asserted principles of association were similarity, contiguity, and contrast, numerous others had been added by the nineteenth century. By the end of the nineteenth century physiological psychology was so altering the approach to this subject that much of the older associationist theory was rejected.\n\nEveryday observation of the association of one idea or memory with another gives a face validity to the notion. In addition, the notion of association between ideas and behavior gave some early impetus to behaviorist thinking. The core ideas of associationist thinking recur in some recent thought on cognition, especially consciousness.\n\nThe associationist theory is anticipated in Plato's \"Phaedo\", as part of the doctrine of anamnesis. The idea of Simmias is recalled by the picture of Simmias (similarity) and that of a friend by the sight of the lyre on which he played (contiguity). But Aristotle is credited with originating associationist thinking based on this passage:\n\nThe passage is obscure, but it indicates the principles known as contiguity, similarity, and contrast. Similar principles are stated by Zeno the Stoic, by Epicurus (see \"Diogenes Laertius\" vii. § 52, x. § 32), and by St Augustine of Hippo (\"Confessions\", x. c. 19). Aristotle's doctrine was expanded and illustrated during throughout the Middle Ages, and in some cases even into the 17th century. William Hamilton listed philosophical authorities who gave prominence to the general fact of mental association - the Spanish philosopher Ludovicus Vives (1492-1540) especially being exhaustive in his account of memory.\n\nIn Thomas Hobbes's psychology much importance is assigned to what he called, variously, the succession, sequence, series, consequence, coherence, train of imaginations or thoughts in mental discourse. But not before David Hume is there an express question as to what are the distinct principles of association. John Locke had, meanwhile, introduced the phrase \"association of ideas\" as the title of a supplementary chapter incorporated with the fourth edition of his \"Essay\", though with little or no suggestion of its general psychological import. Hume reduced the principles of association to three: similarity, contiguity in time and place, and cause and/or effect. Dugald Stewart suggested resemblance, contrariety, and vicinity in time and place, though he added, as another obvious principle, accidental coincidence in the sounds of words, and further noted three other cases of relation: cause and effect, means and end, and premise and conclusion, as connecting trains of thought under circumstances of special attention. Thomas Reid, made light of association, remarking that it seems to require only the power of habit to explain the spontaneous recurrence of trains of thinking, which become familiar by frequent repetition (\"Intellectual Powers\", p. 387).\n\nHamilton's own theory of mental reproduction, suggestion, or association is a development of his ideas in \"Lectures on Metaphysics\" (vol. ii. p. 223, seq.), which reduced the principles of association to simultaneity and affinity, and these further to one supreme principle of Redintegration or totality. In the final scheme he sets out four general laws of mental succession:\n\nThese special laws logically follow from the general laws above:\n\nThe \"Associationist School\" includes the English psychologists who aimed at explaining all mental acquisitions and the more complex mental processes generally under laws under the associations which their predecessors applied only to simple reproduction. Hamilton, though professing to deal with reproduction only, formulates a number of still more general laws of mental succession: law of Succession, law of Variation, law of Dependence, law of Relativity or Integration (involving law of Conditioned), and, finally, law of Intrinsic or Objective Relativity. These he posits as the highest to which human consciousness is subject, but it is in a sense quite different that the psychologists of the Associationist School intend their appropriation of the principle or principles commonly signalized. In this regard, as far as can be judged from imperfect records, they were anticipated to some extent by the experientialists of ancient times, both Stoic and Epicurean (cf. \"Diogenes Laertius\", as above).\n\nIn the period that led to modern philosophy, Hobbes was the first thinker of permanent note to whom this doctrine may be traced. Although he took a narrow view of the phenomena of mental succession, he (after dealing with trains of imagination or \"mental discourse\") sought in the higher departments of intellect to explain reasoning as a discourse in words, dependent upon an arbitrary system of marks, each associated with or standing for a variety of imaginations. Except for a general assertion that reasoning is a reckoning (otherwise, a compounding and resolving), he had no other account of knowledge to give. The whole emotional side of mind (\"the passions\") he similarly resolved into an expectation of consequences based on past experience of pleasures and pains of sense. Thus, though he made no serious attempt to justify his analysis in detail, he is undoubtedly to be classed with the associationists of the next century. They, however, were wont to trace their psychological theory no further back than to Locke's \"Essay\". Bishop Berkeley was driven to posit expressly a principle of suggestion or association in these terms:\n\n\"That one idea may suggest another to the mind, it will suffice that they have been observed to go together, without any demonstration of the necessity of their coexistence, or so much as knowing what it is that makes them so to coexist\".\" (\"New Theory of Vision\", § 25)\n\nand, to support the obvious application of the principle to the case of the sensations of sight and touch before him, he constantly urged that association of sound and sense of language which the later school has always put in the foreground, whether as illustrating the principle in general or in explanation of the supreme importance of language for knowledge. It was natural, then, that Hume, coming after Berkeley and assuming Berkeley's results (though he reverted to the larger inquiry of Locke), should be more explicit in his reference to association. But Hume was original also, when he spoke of it as a \"kind of attraction which in the mental world will be found to have as extraordinary effects as in the natural, and to show itself in as many and as various forms\".\" (\"Human Nature\", i. 1, § 4)\n\nOther inquirers about the same time conceived of association with this breadth of view, and set themselves to track, as psychologists, its effects in detail.\n\nDavid Hartley is the thinker most precisely identified with the Associationist School. In his \"Observations on Man\", published in 1749 (11 years after Hume's \"A Treatise of Human Nature\" and one year after the better known \"An Enquiry concerning Human Understanding\"), opened the path for all the investigations of like nature that have been so characteristic of English psychology. A physician by profession, he sought to combine with an elaborate theory of mental association a minutely detailed hypothesis as to the corresponding action of the nervous system, based upon the suggestion of a vibratory motion within the nerves thrown out by Isaac Newton in the last paragraph of the \"Principia\". So far, however, from promoting the acceptance of the psychological theory, this physical hypothesis proved to have rather the opposite effect, and it began to be dropped by Hartley's followers (as Joseph Priestley, in his abridged edition of the \"Observations\", 1775) before it was seriously impugned from without. When it is studied in the original, and not taken upon the report of hostile critics, who would not, or could not understand it, no little importance must still be accorded to the first attempt, not seldom a curiously felicitous one, to carry through that parallelism of the physical and psychical, which since then has come to count for more and more in the science of mind. Nor should it be forgotten that Hartley himself, for all his paternal interest in the doctrine of vibrations, was careful to keep separate from its fortunes the cause of his other doctrine of mental association. Of this the point lay in no mere restatement, with new precision, of a principle of coherence among \"ideas\" (which were also called by Hartley \"vestiges\", \"types\" and \"images\"), but in its being taken as a clue by which to follow the progressive development of the mind's powers. Holding that mental states could be scientifically understood only as they were analysed, Hartley sought for a principle of synthesis to explain the complexity exhibited not only in trains of representative images, but alike in the most involved combinations of reasonings and (as Berkeley had seen) in the apparently simple phenomena of objective perception, as well as in the varied play of the emotions, or, again, in the manifold conscious adjustments of the motor system. One principle appeared to him sufficient for all, running, as enunciated for the simplest case, thus:\n\n\"Any sensations A, B, C, etc., by being associated with one another a sufficient number of times, get such a power over the corresponding ideas a, b, c, etc., that any one of the sensations A, when impressed alone, shall be able to excite in the mind b, c, etc., the ideas of the rest.\"\n\nTo render the principle applicable in the cases where the associated elements are neither sensations nor simple ideas of sensations, Hartley's first care was to determine the conditions under which states other than these simplest ones have their rise in the mind, becoming the matter of ever higher and higher combinations. The principle itself supplied the key to the difficulty, when coupled with the notion, already implied in Berkeley's investigations, of a coalescence of simple ideas of sensation into one complex idea, which may cease to bear any obvious relation to its constituents. So far from being content, like Hobbes, to make a rough generalization to all mind from the phenomena of developed memory, as if these might be straightway assumed, Hartley made a point of referring them, in a subordinate place of their own, to his universal principle of mental synthesis. He expressly put forward the law of association, endued with such scope, as supplying what was wanting to Locke's doctrine in its more strictly psychological aspect, and thus marks by his work a distinct advance on the line of development of the experiential philosophy.\n\nThe new doctrine received warm support from some, as William Law and Priestley, who both, like Hume and Hartley himself, took the principle of association as having the like import for the science of mind that gravitation had acquired for the science of matter. The principle began also, if not always with direct reference to Hartley, yet, doubtless, owing to his impressive advocacy of it, to be applied systematically in special directions, as by Abraham Tucker (1768) to morals, and by Archibald Alison (1790) to aesthetics. Thomas Brown (d. 1820) subjected anew to discussion the question of theory. Hardly less unjust to Hartley than Reid or Stewart had been, and forward to proclaim all that was different in his own position, Brown must yet be ranked with the associationists before and after him for the prominence he assigned to the associative principle in sensory perception (what he called \"external affections of mind\"), and for his reference of all other mental states (\"internal affections\") to the two generic capacities or susceptibilities of Simple and Relative Suggestion. He preferred the word \"suggestion\" to \"association\", which seemed to him to imply some prior connecting process, for which there was no evidence in many of the most important cases of suggestion, nor even, strictly speaking, in the case of contiguity in time where the term seemed least inapplicable. According to him, all that could be assumed was a general constitutional tendency of the mind to exist successively in states that have certain relations to each other, of itself only, and without any external cause or any influence previous to that operating at the moment of the suggestion. Brown's chief contribution to the general doctrine of mental association, besides what he did for the theory of perception, was, perhaps, his analysis of voluntary reminiscence and constructive imagination, faculties that appear at first sight to lie altogether beyond the explanatory range of the principle. In James Mill's \"Analysis of the Phenomena of the Human Mind\" (1829), the principle, much as Hartley had conceived it, was carried out, with characteristic consequence, over the psychological field. With a much enlarged and more varied conception of association, Alexander Bain reexecuted the general psychological task, while Herbert Spencer revised the doctrine from the new point of view of the evolution hypothesis. John Stuart Mill made only occasional excursions into the region of psychology proper, but sought, in his \"System of Logic\" (1843), to determine the conditions of objective truth from the point of view of the associationist theory, and, thus or otherwise being drawn into general philosophical discussion, spread wider than any one before him its repute.\n\nThe Associationist School was composed chiefly of British thinkers, but in France also it had distinguished representatives. Of these it will suffice to mention Condillac, who professed to explain all knowledge from the single principle of association (liaison) of ideas, operating through a previous association with signs, verbal or other. In Germany, before the time of Immanuel Kant, mental association was generally treated in the traditional manner, as by Christian Wolff.\n\nKant's inquiry into the foundations of knowledge, agreeing in its general purport with Locke's, however it differed in its critical procedure, brought him face to face with the newer doctrine that had been grafted on Locke's philosophy. To account for the fact of synthesis in cognition, in express opposition to associationism, as represented by Hume, was, in truth, his prime object, starting, as he did, from the assumption that there was in knowledge that which no mere association of experiences could explain.\n\nTo the extent, therefore, that his influence prevailed, all inquiries made by the English associationists were discounted in Germany. Notwithstanding, under the very shadow of his authority a corresponding, if not related, movement was initiated by Johann Friedrich Herbart. As peculiar and widely different from anything conceived by the associationists as Herbart's metaphysical opinions were, he was at one with them and at variance with Kant in assigning fundamental importance to the psychological investigation of the development of consciousness. Further, his conception of the laws determining the interaction and flow of mental presentations and representations, when taken in its bare psychological import, was essentially similar to theirs. In Friedrich Eduard Beneke's psychology also and in more recent inquiries conducted mainly by physiologists, mental association has been understood in its wider scope, as a general principle of explanation.\n\nThe associationists differ among themselves in the statement of their principle and, when they adduce several principles, in their conception of the relative importance of these.\n\n\nThe highest philosophical interest, as distinguished from that which is more strictly psychological, attaches to the mode of mental association called Inseparable. The coalescence of mental states noted by Hartley, as it had been assumed by Berkeley, was farther formulated by James Mill in these terms:\n\n\"Some ideas are by frequency and strength of association so closely combined that they cannot be separated; if one exists, the other exists along with it in spite of whatever effort we make to disjoin them.\" (\"Analysis of the Human Mind\", 2nd ed., vol. i, p. 93)\n\nJohn Stuart Mill's statement was more guarded and particular:\n\n\"When two phenomena have been very often experienced in conjunction, and have not, in any single instance, occurred separately either in experience or in thought, there is produced between them what has been called inseparable, or, less correctly, indissoluble, association; by which is not meant that the association must inevitably last to the end of life - that no subsequent experience or process of thought can possibly avail to dissolve it; but only that as long as no such experience or process of thought has taken place, the association is irresistible; it is impossible for us to think the one thing disjoined from the other.\" (\"Examination of Hamilton's Philosophy\", 2nd ed., p. 191)\n\nIt is chiefly by John Stuart Mill that the philosophical application of the principle has been made. The first and most obvious application is to so-called necessary truths, those that are not merely analytic judgments but involve a synthesis of distinct notions. Again, the same thinker sought to prove Inseparable Association the ground of belief in an external objective world. The former application, especially, is facilitated, when the experience through which the association is supposed to be constituted is understood as cumulative in the race, and transmissible as original endowment to individuals - endowment that may be expressed either, subjectively, as latent intelligence or, objectively, as fixed nervous connexions. Spencer, as suggested before, is the author of this extended view of mental association.\n\nIn the later part of the 19th century the associationist theory was subjected to searching criticism, and it was maintained by many writers that the laws are both unsatisfactorily expressed and insufficient to explain the facts. Among the most vigorous and comprehensive of these investigations is that of F. H. Bradley in his \"Principles of Logic\" (1883). Having admitted the psychological fact of mental association, he attacks the theories of Mill and Bain primarily on the ground that they purport to give an account of mental life as a whole, a metaphysical doctrine of existence. According to this doctrine, mental activity is ultimately reducible to particular feelings, impressions, ideas, which are disparate and unconnected, until chance Association brings them together. On this assumption, the laws of Association naturally emerge in the following form:\n\nThe fundamental objection to the law of Contiguity is that ideas and impressions, once experienced, do not recur; they are particular existences, and, as such, do not persevere to recur or be presented. So Mill is wrong in speaking of two impressions being \"frequently experienced.\" Bradley claims thus to reduce the law to\nThis statement is destructive of the title of the law, because it appears that what were contiguous (the impressions) are not associated, and what are associated (the ideas) were not contiguous; in other words, the association is not due to contiguity at all.\n\nProceeding to the law of Similarity (which in Mill's view is at the back of association by contiguity), and having made a similar criticism of its phrasing, Bradley maintains that it involves an even greater absurdity; if two ideas are to be recognized as similar, they must both be present in the mind; if one is to call up the other, one must be absent. To the obvious reply that the similarity is recognized ex post facto, and not while the former idea is being called up, Bradley replies simply that such a view reduces the law to the mere statement of a phenomenon and deprives it of any explanatory value, though he hardly makes it clear in what sense this necessarily invalidates the law from a psychological point of view. He further points out with greater force that in point of fact mere similarity is not the basis of ordinary cases of mental reproduction, inasmuch as in any given instance there is more difference than similarity between the ideas associated.\n\nBradley himself bases association on identity plus contiguity:\nor\nThis law he calls by the name \"redintegration\", understood, of course, in a sense different from that in which Hamilton used it. The radical difference between this law and those of Mill and Bain is that it deals not with particular units of thoughts but with universals or identity between individuals. In any example of such reproduction, the universal appears in a particular form which is more or less different from that in which it originally existed.\n\nF. H. Bradley's discussion deals with the subject purely from the metaphysical side, and the total result practically is that association occurs only between universals. From the point of view of empirical psychologists Bradley's results are open to the charge which he made against those who impugned his view of the law of similarity, namely that they are merely a statement - not in any real sense an explanation. The relation between the mental and the physical phenomena of association has occupied the attention of all the leading psychologists (see Psychology). William James holds that association is of \"objects\" not of \"ideas,\" is between \"things thought of\" - so far as the word stands for an effect. \"So far as it stands for a cause it is between processes in the brain.\" Dealing with the law of Contiguity he says that the \"most natural way of accounting for it is to conceive it as a result of the laws of habit in the nervous system; in other words to ascribe it to a physiological cause.\" Association thus results because when a nerve current has once passed by a given way, it will pass more easily by that way in future; and this fact is a physical fact. He further seeks to maintain the important deduction that the only primary or ultimate law of association is that of neural habit.\n\nThe objections to the associationist theory are summed up by George F. Stout (\"Analytic Psychol.\", vol. ii. pp. 47 seq.) under three heads. Of these the first is that the theory as stated, e.g., by Alexander Bain, lays far too much stress on the mere connexion of elements hitherto entirely separate; whereas, in fact, every new mental state or synthesis consists in the development or modification of a pre-existing state or psychic whole. Secondly, it is quite false to regard an association as merely an aggregate of disparate units; in fact, the form of the new idea is quite as important as the elements which it comprises. Thirdly, the phraseology used by the associationists seems to assume that the parts that go to form the whole retain their identity unimpaired; in fact, each part or element is ipso facto modified by the very fact of its entering into such combination.\n\nThe experimental methods in vogue in the early part of the 20th century to a large extent removed the discussion of the whole subject of association of ideas, depending in the case of the older writers on introspection, into a new sphere. In such a work as Edward B. Titchener's \"Experimental Psychology\" (1905), association was treated as a branch of the study of mental reactions, of which association reactions are one division.\n\nToday the field is studied by neuroscientists and artificial intelligence researchers as well as philosophers and psychologists.\n\n\nSee the works of Bradley, Stout, and James, above quoted, and general works on psychology; articles in Mind (passim);\n\n"}
{"id": "40399359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40399359", "title": "Bioeffector", "text": "Bioeffector\n\nA Bioeffector is a viable microorganism or active natural compound which directly or indirectly affects plant performance (Biofertilizer), and thus has the potential to reduce fertilizer and pesticide use in crop production.\n\nBioeffectors have a direct or indirect effect on plant performance by influencing the functional implementation or activation of biological mechanisms, particularly those interfering with soil-plant-microbe interactions.\nIn contrast to conventional fertilizers and pesticides, the effectiveness of bioeffectors is not based on a substantial direct input of mineral plant nutrients, either in inorganic or organic forms.\n\n\nUnder the Acronym \"Biofector\" the European Union supports the Research of Bioeffectors under the leadership of the University of Hohenheim (Coordinator Guenter Neumann).\nThe results of the project will be evaluated by the members of the Association Biostimulants in Agriculture (ABISTA) and provided agriculture for use and EU institutions for the legislative and registration procedures. \n\nOther Biostimulants Organisations are European Biostimulant Industry Council, International Biocontrol Manufacturers' Association and Annual Biocontrol Industry Meeting.\n\n"}
{"id": "31398393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31398393", "title": "Causing bodily harm by wanton or furious driving", "text": "Causing bodily harm by wanton or furious driving\n\nCausing bodily harm by wanton or furious driving is a statutory offence in England and Wales and Northern Ireland. It has been abolished in the Republic of Ireland.\n\nThis offence is created by section 35 of the Offences against the Person Act 1861 (drivers of carriages injuring persons by furious driving):\n\nThis section is printed as amended by section 1(2) of the Criminal Justice Act 1948 and of the Criminal Justice Act (Northern Ireland) 1953.\n\nThis section was repealed for the Republic of Ireland by section 70(a) of the Road Traffic Act 2010. In the Republic of Ireland, a person liable to be charged an offence under section 53 of the Road Traffic Act, 1961 was not liable, by reference to the same occurrence, to be charged with an offence under this section.\n\n\"Misdemeanour\"\n\nThe reference to a misdemeanour must now be construed as a reference to an offence.\n\n\"Bodily harm\"\n\nSee bodily harm\n\nIn England and Wales, this offence is now used to prosecute:\n\nIt was used in 2009 to prosecute a death caused by a cyclist collision, which would have fallen outside other laws as it is the closest equivalent to dangerous driving for cyclists. It was used again in 2017 for similar reasons.\n\nIn England and Wales, this is an indictable-only offence.\n\nIn England and Wales, this offence is punishable with imprisonment for any term not exceeding two years, as it is in Northern Ireland.\n\nThe offence of attempting to cause bodily harm by wanton driving requires an intent to cause bodily harm.\n\nUnited Kingdom traffic laws\n"}
{"id": "245992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=245992", "title": "Charity (virtue)", "text": "Charity (virtue)\n\nIn Christian theology, Charity (Latin Caritas) is considered as one of the seven virtues and is understood by Thomas Aquinas as \"the friendship of man for God\", which \"unites us to God\". He holds it as \"the most excellent of the virtues\". Further, Aquinas holds that \"the habit of charity extends not only to the love of God, but also to the love of our neighbor\".\n\nThe Catechism of the Catholic Church defines \"charity\" as \"the theological virtue by which we love God above all things for His own sake, and our neighbor as ourselves for the love of God\".\n\nThe phrase \"Deus caritas est\" from —or \"Θεὸς ἀγάπη ἐστίν\" (Theos agapē estin) in the original Greek is translated in the King James Version as: \"God is love\", and in the Douay-Rheims bible as: \"God is charity\" (). Thomas Aquinas does not simply equate charity with \"love\", which he holds as a passion, not a virtue. The King James Version uses both the words \"charity\" and \"love\" to translate the idea of \"caritas\"/ἀγάπη (agapē): sometimes it uses one, then sometimes the other, for the same concept. Most other English translations, both before and since, do not; instead, throughout they use the same more direct English word \"love\". Love can have other meanings in English, but as used in the New Testament it almost always refers to the virtue of \"caritas\".\n\nMany times when charity is mentioned in English-language bibles, it refers to \"love of God\", which is a spiritual love that is extended from God to man and then reflected by man, who is made in the image of God, back to God. God gives man the power to act as God acts (God is love), man then reflects God's power in his own human actions towards others. One example of this movement is \"charity shall cover the multitude of sins\" (). \"The practice of charity brings us to act toward ourselves and others out of love alone, precisely because each person has the dignity of a beloved child of God.\"\n\nCharity is held to be the ultimate perfection of the human spirit, because it is said to both glorify and reflect the nature of God. Confusion can arise from the multiple meanings of the English word \"love\". As other theological virtues, Charity is divinely infused into the soul; it resides in the \"will\". According to Aquinas, charity is an absolute requirement for happiness, which he holds as man's last goal.\n\nCharity has two parts: love of God and love of man, which includes both love of one's neighbor and one's self.\n\nIn 1 Corinthians 13, Paul places the greater emphasis on Charity (Love). \"So faith, hope, love remain, these three; but the greatest of these is love.\" He describes it as:\n\nThe fruits of charity are joy, peace, and mercy.\n\nIn December 2005, Pope Benedict XVI issued the encyclical \"Deus caritas est\", in which he discussed \"... the love which God lavishes upon us and which we in turn must share with others.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3225176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3225176", "title": "Cognitive ergonomics", "text": "Cognitive ergonomics\n\nCognitive ergonomics, defined by the International Ergonomics Association \"is concerned with mental processes, such as perception, memory, reasoning, and motor response, as they affect interactions among humans and other elements of a system. The relevant topics include mental workload, decision-making, skilled performance, human-computer interaction, human reliability, work stress and training as these may relate to human-system design.\" Cognitive ergonomics studies cognition in work and operational settings, in order to optimize human well-being and system performance. It is a subset of the larger field of human factors and ergonomics.\n\nCognitive ergonomics (sometimes known as cognitive engineering though this was an earlier field) is an emerging branch of ergonomics which places particular emphasis on the analysis of cognitive processes required of operators in modern industries and similar milieus. Examples include diagnosis, workload, situation awareness, decision making, and planning. Cognitive ergonomics aims at enhancing performance of cognitive tasks by means of several interventions, including these:\n\nThe field of cognitive ergonomics emerged predominantly in the 70's with the advent of the personal computer and new developments in the fields of cognitive psychology and artificial intelligence. CE contrasts the tradition of physical ergonomics because \"cognitive ergonomics is...the application of psychology to work...to achieve the optimization between people and their work.\" Viewed as an applied science, the methods involved with creating cognitive ergonomic design have changed with the rapid development in technological advances over the last 27 years. In the 80's, there was a worldwide transition in the methodological approach to design. According to van der Veer, Enid Mumford was one of the pioneers of interactive systems engineering, and advocated the notion of user-centered design, wherein the user is considered and \"included in all phases of the design\".\n\nThere are several different models which describe the criteria for designing user-friendly technology. A number of models focus on a systematic process for design, using task analysis to evaluate the cognitive processes involved with a given task and develop adequate interface capabilities. Task analysis in past research has focused on the evaluation of cognitive task demands, concerning motor control and cognition during visual tasks such as operating machinery, or the evaluation of attention and focus via the analysis of eye saccades of pilots when flying. Neuroergonomics, a subfield of cognitive ergonomics, aims to enhance human-computer interaction by using neural correlates to better understand situational task demands. Neuroergonomic research at the university of Iowa has been involved with assessing safe-driving protocol, enhancing elderly mobility, and analyzing cognitive abilities involved with the navigation of abstract virtual environments.\"\n\nSuccessful, ergonomic intervention in the area of cognitive tasks requires a thorough understanding not only of the demands of the work situation, but also of user strategies in performing cognitive tasks and of limitations in human cognition. In some cases, the artifacts or tools used to carry out a task may impose their own constraints and limitations (e.g., navigating through a large number of GUI screens). Tools may also co-determine the very nature of the task. In this sense, the analysis of cognitive tasks should examine both the interaction of users with their work setting and the user interaction with artifacts or tools; the latter is very important as modern artifacts (e.g., control panels, software, expert systems) become increasingly sophisticated. Emphasis lies on how to design human-machine interfaces and cognitive artifacts so that human performance is sustained in work environments where information may be unreliable, events may be difficult to predict, multiple simultaneous goals may be in conflict, and performance may be time constrained.\n\n\"Cognitive task analysis\" is a general term for the set of methods used to identify the mental demands and cognitive skills needed to complete a task. Frameworks like GOMS provide a formal set of methods for identifying the mental activities required by a task and an artifact, such as a desktop computer system. By identifying the sequence of mental activities of a user engaged in a task, cognitive ergonomics engineers can identify bottlenecks and critical paths that may present opportunities for improvement or risks (such as human error) that merit changes in training or system behavior.\n\nAs a design philosophy, cognitive ergonomics can be applied to any area where humans interact with technology. Applications include aviation (e.g., cockpit layouts), transportation (e.g., collision avoidance), the health care system (e.g., drug bottle labelling), mobile devices, appliance interface design, product design, and nuclear power plants.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24502415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24502415", "title": "Command missile", "text": "Command missile\n\nA command missile is a missile, the payload of which issues electronic commands. A command missile does not carry any destructive payload. Its payload is designed to be delivered to very high altitude rather than at ground targets. \n\nA command missile might function as part of a mutually assured destruction scenario. In the event of a nuclear first strike being detected, the defending nation launches command missiles, which command retaliation from friendly units. Thus, retaliation is assured even if the nation's leadership, military chain of command, and communications infrastructure are destroyed by the first strike.\n\nThe United States operated a command missile system known as the Emergency Rocket Communications System (ERCS). In the event of a nuclear first strike against the continental United States, centrally located LGM-30 Minuteman missiles would be launched, each of which carried a payload that would electronically trigger a nuclear retaliation.\n\nThe Soviet Union was also known to operate command missiles.\n"}
{"id": "83003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=83003", "title": "Conscientious objector", "text": "Conscientious objector\n\nA conscientious objector is an \"individual who has claimed the right to refuse to perform military service\" on the grounds of freedom of thought, conscience, or religion.\n\nIn some countries, conscientious objectors are assigned to an alternative civilian service as a substitute for conscription or military service. Some conscientious objectors consider themselves pacifist, non-interventionist, non-resistant, non-aggressionist, anti-imperialist or antimilitarist.\n\nOn March 8, 1995, the United Nations Commission on Human Rights resolution 1995/83 stated that \"persons performing military service should not be excluded from the right to have conscientious objections to military service.\" This was re-affirmed in 1998, when resolution 1998/77 recognized that \"persons [already] performing military service may \"develop\" conscientious objections.\" A number of organizations around the world celebrate the principle on May 15 as International Conscientious Objection Day. The term has also been extended to objecting to working for the military–industrial complex due to a crisis of conscience.\n\nMany conscientious objectors have been executed, imprisoned, or otherwise penalized when their beliefs led to actions conflicting with their society's legal system or government. The legal definition and status of conscientious objection has varied over the years and from nation to nation. Religious beliefs were a starting point in many nations for legally granting conscientious objector status.\n\nThe first recorded conscientious objector, Maximilianus, was conscripted into the Roman army in the year 295, but \"told the Proconsul in Numidia that because of his religious convictions he could not serve in the military.\" He was executed for this, and was later canonized as Saint Maximilian.\n\nAn early recognition of conscientious objection was granted by William the Silent to the Dutch Mennonites in 1575. They could refuse military service in exchange for a monetary payment.\n\nFormal legislation to exempt objectors from fighting was first granted in mid-18th century Great Britain following problems with attempting to force Quakers into military service. In 1757, when the first attempt was made to establish a British Militia as a professional national military reserve, a clause in the Militia Ballot Act allowed Quakers exemption from military service.\n\nIn the United States, conscientious objection was permitted from the country's founding, although regulation was left to individual states prior to the introduction of conscription.\n\nIn 1948, the issue of the right to \"conscience\" was dealt with by the United Nations General Assembly in Article 18 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. It reads:\n\nThe proclamation was ratified during the General Assembly on 10 December 1948 by a vote of 48 in favour, 0 against, with 8 abstentions.\n\nIn 1974, the Assistant Secretary-General of the United Nations, Sean MacBride said, in his Nobel Lecture, \"To the rights enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights one more might, with relevance, be added. It is ' The Right to Refuse to Kill.'\"\n\nIn 1976, the United Nations treaty the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights entered into force. It was based on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and was originally created in 1966. Nations that have signed this treaty are bound by it. Its Article 18 begins: \"Everyone shall have the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion. ...\"\n\nHowever, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights left the issue of conscientious objection inexplicit, as we see in this quote from War Resisters International: \"Article 18 of the Covenant does put some limits on the right [to freedom of thought, conscience and religion], stating that [its] manifestations must not infringe on public safety, order, health or morals. Some states argue that such limitations [on the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion] would [derivatively] permit them to make conscientious objection during time of war a threat to public safety, or mass conscientious objection a disruption to public order...[Some states] even [argue] that it is a 'moral' duty to serve the state in its military.\"\n\nOn July 30, 1993, explicit clarification of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights Article 18 was made in the United Nations Human Rights Committee general comment 22, Paragraph 11: \"The Covenant does not explicitly refer to a right to conscientious objection, but the Committee believes that such a right can be derived from article 18, inasmuch as the obligation to use lethal force may seriously conflict with the freedom of conscience and the right to manifest one's religion or belief.\" In 2006, the Committee has found for the first time a right to conscientious objection under article 18, although not unanimously.\n\nIn 1997, an announcement of Amnesty International's forthcoming campaign and briefing for the UN Commission on Human Rights included this quote: \"The right to conscientious objection to military service is not a marginal concern outside the mainstream of international human rights protection and promotion.\"\n\nIn 1998, the Human Rights Commission reiterated previous statements and added \"states should . . . refrain from subjecting conscientious objectors . . . to repeated punishment for failure to perform military service.\" It also encouraged states \"to consider granting asylum to those conscientious objectors compelled to leave their country of origin because they fear persecution owing to their refusal to perform military service . . . .\"\n\nIn 2001, Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union recognised the right to conscientious objection.\n\nThe Handbook on Procedures and Criteria for Determining Refugee Status (the Handbook) of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) states:\n\n171. Not every conviction, genuine though it may be, will constitute a sufficient reason for claiming refugee status after desertion or draft-evasion. It is not enough for a person to be in disagreement with his government regarding the political justification for a particular military action. Where, however, the type of military action, with which an individual does not wish to be associated, is condemned by the international community as contrary to basic rules of human conduct, punishment for desertion or draft-evasion could, in the light of all other requirements of the definition, in itself be regarded as persecution.\n\nAir Commodore Lionel Charlton, of the British Royal Air Force (RAF), served in the military from 1898 to 1928. In 1923 he \"selectively\" refused to serve in the RAF Iraq Command. (He later went on to serve as Air Officer Commanding No 3 Group.)\n\nOn June 4, 1967, John Courtney Murray, an American Jesuit priest and theologian, delivered an address at Western Maryland College concerning a more specific type of conscientious objection: \"the issue of selective conscientious objection, conscientious objection to particular wars, or as it is sometimes called, discretionary armed service.\"\n\nOn March 8, 1971, the Supreme Court of the United States ruled in the case of \"Gillette v. United States\" that \"the exemption for those who oppose \"participation in war in any form\" applies to those who oppose participating in all war and not to those who object to participation in a particular war only.\"\n\nOn September 24, 2003, in Israel, 27 reserve pilots and former pilots refused to serve in only specific missions. These specific missions included \"civilian population centers\" in \"the [occupied] territories.\" These pilots clarified: \"We ... shall continue to serve in the Israel Defense Forces and the Air Force for every mission in defense of the state of Israel.\"\n\nOn May 25, 2005, journalist Jack Random wrote the following: \"The case of Sergeant Kevin Benderman (Iraq War Resister) raises the burning issue of selective conscientious objection: While it is universally accepted that an individual cannot be compelled against conscience to war in general, does the same hold for an individual who objects, in the depths of the soul, to a particular war?\"\n\nCases of behavior which could be considered as religiously motivated conscientious objection are historically attested long before the modern term appeared. For example, the Medieval \"Orkneyinga Saga\" mentions that Magnus Erlendsson, Earl of Orkney – the future Saint Magnus – had a reputation for piety and gentleness, and because of his religious convictions refused to fight in a Viking raid on Anglesey, Wales, instead staying on board his ship singing psalms.\n\nThe reasons for refusing to perform military service are varied. Many conscientious objectors cite religious reasons. Unitarian Universalists object to war in their sixth principle \"The goal of world community with peace, liberty and justice for all\". Members of the Historic Peace Churches such as Quakers, Mennonites, Amish, Old Order Mennonite, Conservative Mennonites, the Bruderhof Communities and Church of the Brethren object to war from the conviction that Christian life is incompatible with military action, because Jesus enjoins his followers to love their enemies and to refuse violence. Since the American Civil War, Seventh-day Adventists have been known as non-combatants, and have done work in hospitals or to give medical care rather than combat roles, and the church has upheld the non-combative position. Jehovah's Witnesses and Christadelphians, refuse to participate in the armed services on the grounds that they believe they should be neutral in worldly conflicts and often cite the latter portion of Isaiah 2:4 which states, \"...neither shall they learn war anymore.\" Other objections can stem from a deep sense of responsibility toward humanity as a whole, or from simple denial that any government possesses the moral authority to command warlike behavior from its citizens.\n\nThe varied experiences of non-combatants are illustrated by those of Seventh-day Adventists when there was mandatory military service: \"Many Seventh-day Adventists refuse to enter the army as combatants, but participate as medics, ambulance drivers, etc. During World War II in Germany, many SDA conscientious objectors were sent to concentration camps or mental institutions; some were executed. Some Seventh-day Adventists volunteered for the US Army's Operation Whitecoat, participating in research to help others. The Church preferred to call them \"conscientious participants\", because they were willing to risk their lives as test subjects in potentially life-threatening research. Over 2,200 Seventh-day Adventists volunteered in experiments involving various infectious agents during the 1950s through the 1970s in Fort Detrick, MD. \" Earlier, a schism arose during and after World War I between Seventh-day Adventists in Germany who agreed to serve in the military if conscripted and those who rejected all participation in warfare — the latter group eventually forming a separate church (the Seventh Day Adventist Reform Movement).\nIn the early Christian Church followers of Christ refused to take up arms.\n\nAfter the Roman Empire officially embraced Christianity, the Just War theology was developed in order to reconcile warfare with Christian belief. After Theodosius I made Christianity an official religion of the Empire, this position slowly developed into the official position of the Western Church. In the 11th century, there was a further shift of opinion in the Latin-Christian tradition with the crusades, strengthening the idea and acceptability of Holy War. Objectors became a minority. Some theologians see the Constantinian shift and the loss of Christian pacifism as a great failing of the Church.\n\nBen Salmon was a Catholic conscientious objector during World War I and outspoken critic of Just War theology. The Catholic Church denounced him and \"The New York Times\" described him as a \"spy suspect.\" The US military (in which he was never inducted) charged him with desertion and spreading propaganda, then sentenced him to death (this was later revised to 25 years hard labor). On June 5, 1917, Salmon wrote in a letter to President Wilson:\n\nBecause of their conscientious objection to participation in military service, whether armed or unarmed, Jehovah's Witnesses have often faced imprisonment or other penalties. In Greece, for example, before the introduction of alternative civilian service in 1997, hundreds of Witnesses were imprisoned, some for three years or even more for their refusal. In Armenia, young Jehovah's Witnesses were imprisoned because of their conscientious objection to military service; this was discontinued in November 2013. The government of South Korea also imprisons hundreds for refusing the draft. In Switzerland, virtually every Jehovah's Witness is exempted from military service. The Finnish government exempts Jehovah's Witnesses from the draft completely.\n\nFor believers in Indian religions, the opposition to warfare may be based on either the general idea of ahimsa, nonviolence, or on an explicit prohibition of violence by their religion, e.g., for a Buddhist, one of the five precepts is \"Pānātipātā veramaṇi sikkhāpadam samādiyāmi,\" or \"I undertake the precept to refrain from destroying living creatures,\" which is in obvious opposition to the practice of warfare. The 14th Dalai Lama has stated that war \"should be relegated to the dustbin of history.\" On the other hand, many Buddhist sects, especially in Japan, have been thoroughly militarized, warrior monks (\"yamabushi\" or \"sōhei\") participating in the civil wars. Hindu beliefs do not go against the concept of war, as seen in the Gita. Both Sikhs and Hindus believe war should be a last resort and should be fought to sustain life and morality in society.\n\nBahá'ís are advised to do social service instead of active army service, but when this is not possible because of obligations in certain countries, the Bahá'í law of \"loyalty to one's government\" is preferred and the individual should perform the army service.\n\nSome practitioners of pagan religions, particularly Wicca, may object on the grounds of the Wiccan rede, which states \"An it harm none, do what ye will\" (or variations). The threefold law may also be grounds for objection.\n\nA notable example of a conscientious objector was the Austrian devout Roman Catholic Christian Franz Jägerstätter, who was executed on August 9, 1943 for openly refusing to serve in the Nazi Wehrmacht, consciously accepting the penalty of death. He was declared Blessed by Pope Benedict XVI in 2007 for dying for his beliefs, and is viewed as a symbol of self-sacrificing resistance.\n\nSome conscientious objectors are unwilling to serve the military in any capacity, while others accept noncombatant roles. While conscientious objection is usually the refusal to collaborate with military organizations, as a combatant in war or in any supportive role, some advocate compromising forms of conscientious objection. One compromising form is to accept non-combatant roles during conscription or military service. Alternatives to military or civilian service include serving an imprisonment or other punishment for refusing conscription, falsely claiming unfitness for duty by feigning an allergy or a heart condition, delaying conscription until the maximum drafting age, or seeking refuge in a country which does not extradite those wanted for military conscription. Avoiding military service is sometimes labeled draft dodging, particularly if the goal is accomplished through dishonesty or evasive maneuvers. However, many people who support conscription will distinguish between \"bona fide\" \"conscientious objection\" and \"draft dodging\", which they view as evasion of military service without a valid excuse.\n\nConservative Mennonites do not object to serving their country in peaceful alternatives (alternative service) such as hospital work, farming, forestry, road construction and similar occupations. Their objection is in being part in any military capacity whether noncombatant or regular service. During World War II and the Korean, Vietnam war eras they served in many such capacities in alternative I-W service programs initially through the Mennonite Central Committee and now through their own alternatives.\n\nDespite the fact that international institutions such as the United Nations (UN) and the Council of Europe (CoE) regard and promote conscientious objection as a human right, , it still does not have a legal basis in most countries. Among the roughly one-hundred countries that have conscription, only thirty countries have some legal provisions, 25 of them in Europe. In Europe, most countries with conscription more or less fulfill international guidelines on conscientious objection legislation (except for Greece, Cyprus, Turkey, Finland and Russia) today. In many countries outside Europe, especially in armed conflict areas (e.g. Democratic Republic of the Congo), conscientious objection is punished severely.\n\nWhile conscientious objectors used to be seen as deserters, traitors, cowards, slackers or simply un-patriotic, their image has changed drastically in the Western world in past decades. Especially in Europe, where objectors usually serve an alternative civilian service, they are regarded as making an equally important contribution to society as conscripts. Parallel to that, the number of objectors has risen significantly, too: e.g., in Germany, where conscientious objection is a constitutional right, from less than one percent of all eligible men to more than fifty percent in 2003. In 1991, The Peace Abbey established the National Registry for Conscientious Objection where people can publicly state their refusal to participate in armed conflict.\n\nConscription was mandatory to all able-bodied Belgian males until 1994, when it was suspended. Civilian service was possible since 1963. Objectors could apply for the status of conscience objector. When granted, they did an alternative service with the civil service or with a socio-cultural organisation. The former would last 1.5 times as long as the shortest military service, the latter twice as long.\n\nAfter their service, objectors are not allowed to take jobs that require them to carry weapons, such as police jobs, until the age of 42.\n\nSince conscription was suspended in 1994 and military service is voluntary, the status of conscience objector can not be granted anymore in Belgium.\n\nMennonites and other similar peace churches in Canada were automatically exempt from any type of service during Canada's involvement in World War I by provisions of the Order in Council of 1873 yet initially, many were imprisoned until the matter was again resettled. With pressure of public opinion, the Canadian government barred entry of additional Mennonite and Hutterite immigrants, rescinding the privileges of the Order in Council. During Canada's involvement in World War II, Canadian conscientious objectors were given the options of noncombatant military service, serving in the medical or dental corps under military control or working in parks and on roads under civilian supervision. Over 95% chose the latter and were placed in Alternative Service camps. Initially the men worked on road building, forestry and firefighting projects. After May 1943, as the labour shortage developed within the nation and another Conscription Crisis burgeoned, men were shifted into agriculture, education and industry. The 10,700 Canadian objectors were mostly Mennonites (63%) and Dukhobors (20%).\n\nConscientious objection is not recognised in Colombia, which has occasionally resulted of the detention and forced recruitment of those who refuse the draft. This is despite the fact that the Colombia constitutional court has ruled that conscientious objection is protected by the constitution in 2012. War Resisters' International's report on conscientious objection in Colombia Before being ruled unconstitutional by the court as illegal in Sentence T-455/14, people were at risk of \"batidas\" - raids in the street and public spaces - where young people were rounded up and forcibly recruited if they could not prove they had already undergone military service.\n\nIn Czechoslovakia, those not willing to enter mandatory military service could avoid it by signing a contract for work lasting years in unattractive occupations, such as mining. Those who didn't sign were imprisoned. Both numbers were tiny. After the communist party lost its power in 1989, alternative civil service was established. As of 2006, both the Czech Republic and Slovakia have abolished conscription.\n\nAny male getting drafted, but unwilling to serve, has the ability to avoid military service by instead serving community service for the duration of the conscription.\n\nThere is no right to conscientious objection to military service in Eritrea - which is of an indefinite length - and those who refuse the draft are imprisoned. Some Jehovah's Witness conscientious objectors have been in jail since 1994.\n\nFinland introduced conscription in 1881, but its enforcement was suspended in 1903 as part of Russification. During the Finnish Civil War in 1918, conscription was reintroduced for all able-bodied men. In 1922, the option of noncombatant military service was introduced, but service in the military remained compulsory on pain of imprisonment. After the struggle of pacifist Arndt Pekurinen a law was passed providing for a peacetime-only alternative to military service, or civilian service (Finnish \"siviilipalvelus\"). The law was dubbed \"Lex Pekurinen\" after him. During the Winter War, Pekurinen and other conscientious objectors were imprisoned, and Pekurinen was eventually executed at the front in 1941, during the Continuation War.\n\nAfter the war, a conscientious objector's civilian service lasted 16 months, whereas military service was 8 months at its shortest. To qualify for civilian service, an objector had to explain his conviction before a board of inspection that included military officers and clergymen. In 1987, the duration of the service was shortened to 13 months and the board of inspection was abolished. In 2008, the term was further shortened to 12 months to match the duration of the longest military service (that of officer trainees and technical crew). Today, a person subject to conscription may apply for civilian service at any time before or during his military service, and the application is accepted as a matter of course. A female performing voluntary military service can quit her service anytime during the first 45 days, however, if she wants to quit after those 45 days she would be treated like a male and assigned to civilian service.\n\nPersons who have completed their civilian service during peacetime have, according to the legislation enacted in 2008, the right to serve in non-military duties also during a crisis situation. They may be called to serve in various duties with the rescue services or other necessary work of a non-military nature. Persons who declare themselves to be conscientious objectors only after a crisis has started must, however, prove their conviction before a special board. Before the new legislation, the right to conscientious objection was acknowledged only in peacetime. The changes to the service term and to the legal status of objectors during a crisis situation were made as a response to human rights concerns voiced by several international bodies, who are overseeing the implementation of human rights agreements. These organisations had demanded Finland to take measures to improve its legislation concerning conscientious objectors, which they considered discriminatory. None of these organisations have yet raised concerns on the current legislation.\n\nThere are a small number of total objectors who refuse even civilian service, and are imprisoned for six months. This is not registered into the person's criminal record.\n\nThe creation of a legal status for conscientious objectors in France was the subject of a long struggle involving for instance or the much-publicised trials of Protestant activists Jacques Martin, Philippe Vernier and Camille Rombault in 1932–1933 or the hunger strike of anarchist Louis Lecoin in 1962.\n\nThe legal status law was passed in December 1963, 43 years (and many prison sentences) after the first requests.\n\nIn 1983, a new law passed by socialist Interior Minister Pierre Joxe considerably improved this status, simplifying the conditions under which the status would be granted. Conscientious objectors were then free to choose an activity in the social realm where they would spend their civil service time. However, in order to avoid too many applications for civil service at the expense of the military, the duration of the civil service is however kept twice as long as the military service.\n\nThe effect of these laws was suspended in 2001 when compulsory military service was abolished in France. The special prison at Strasbourg for Jehovah's Witnesses, who refuse to join any military, was also abolished.\n\nSince 1986, the associations defending conscientious objection in France have chosen to celebrate their cause on 15 May.\n\nUnder the Nazis, conscientious objection was not recognized in the law. In theory, objectors would be drafted and then court-martialled for desertion. The practice was even harsher: going beyond the letter of an already extremely flexible law, conscientious objection was considered subversion of military strength, a crime normally punished with death. On September 15, 1939 August Dickmann, a Jehovah's Witness, and the first conscientious objector of the war to be executed, died by a firing squad at the Sachsenhausen concentration camp. Among others, Franz Jägerstätter was executed after his conscientious objection, on the grounds that he could not fight in the forces of the evil side. He is now somewhat the patron saint of conscientious objectors.\n\nAfter World War II, there was no official right to conscientious objection in the German Democratic Republic. Nevertheless, and uniquely among the Eastern bloc, objections were accepted and the objectors assigned to construction units. They were however part of the military, so that a fully civilian alternative did not exist. Also, \"construction soldiers\" were discriminated against in their later professional life.\n\nAccording to Article 4(3) of the German constitution (Grundgesetz): \"No person may be forced against their conscience to perform armed military service. Details shall be regulated by a federal law.\"\n\nAccording to Article 12a, a law may be passed to require every male from the age of 18 to military service called \"Wehrdienst\"; also, a law can require conscientious objectors to perform non-military service instead called \"Wehrersatzdienst\", literally \"military replacement service\", or colloquially \"Zivildienst\". These laws were applicable and demanded compulsory service in the German Bundeswehr until the abolition of draft in 2011. Initially, conscientious objectors each had to appear in person to a panel hearing at the draft office (or contest a negative decision at the administrative court). The suspension of the procedure (1977), allowing to \"object with a post card\", was ruled unconstitutional in 1978. Beginning in 1983, competence was shifted to the \"Kreiswehrersatzamt\" (military replacement office), which had discretion to either approve or reject a conscientious objection, which had to consist of a detailed written statement by an applicant giving reasons as to why the applicant was conscientiously objecting. This was generally just a formality, and objections were not often rejected. In later years in particular however, with the rise of the Internet, conscientious objections fell into disrepute because of the ease of being able to simply download existing example objections. It earned some conscientious objections the suspicion of an applicant simply attempting an easy way out of military service. On the other hand, certain organizations within the German peace movement had been offering pamphlets for decades giving suggestions to applicants as to the proper wording and structure of an objection which would have the greatest chances of success.\n\nFollowing a 1985 Federal Constitution Court decision, Wehrersatzdienst could be no simple choice of convenience for an applicant, but he had to cite veritable conflict of conscience which made him unable to perform any kind of military service at all. If there was doubt about the true nature of an objector's application, he could be summoned to appear before a panel at the Kreiswehrersatzamt to explain his reasons in person. An approved conscientious objection in any case then meant that an applicant was required by law to perform Wehrersatzdienst. Complete objection both to military and replacement service was known as \"Totalverweigerung\"; it was illegal and could be punished with a fine or a suspended custodial sentence.\n\nNearly the only legal way to get both out of military service and replacement service was to be deemed physically unfit for military service. Both men who entered military service and those who wanted to go into replacement service had to pass a military physical examination at the military replacement office. Five categories/levels of physical fitness, or \"Tauglichkeitsstufen\", existed. \"Tauglichkeitsstufe 5\", in short \"T5\", meant that a person was rejected for military service and thus also did not need to enter replacement service. \"T5\" status was usually only granted if a person had physical or mental disabilities or was otherwise significantly impaired, such as due to very poor eyesight or debilitating chronic illnesses.\n\nAnother way to get out of service completely was the \"two brothers rule\", which stated that if two older brothers had already served in the military, any following male children of a family were exempt from service.\n\nDue to West Berlin's special status between the end of the Second World War and 1990 as a city governed by foreign military powers, draft did not apply within its borders. This made Berlin a safe haven for many young people who chose to move to the city to prevent criminal court repercussions for \"Totalverweigerung\". As \"Totalverweigerer\" were often part of the far-left political spectrum, this was one factor which spawned a politically active left-wing and left-wing radical scene in the city.\n\nWehrersatzdienst was for a long time considerably longer than military service, by up to a third, even when the duration of service was gradually reduced following reunification and the end of the Cold War. This was held by some as a violation of constitutional principles, but was upheld in several court decisions based on the reasoning that former service personnel could be redrafted for military exercises called \"Wehrübungen\", while somebody who had served out his replacement service could not. Moreover, work conditions under military service typically involved more hardship and inconvenience than Wehrersatzdienst. In 2004, military service and Wehrersatzdienst were then made to last equal lengths of time.\n\nMilitary service and draft were controversial during much of their existence. Reasons included the consideration that Germans could be made to fight against their fellow Germans in East Germany. Moreover, draft only applied to men, which was seen as gender based discrimination by some, but was often countered by the argument that women usually gave up their careers either temporarily or permanently to raise their children. With the end of the Cold War and the German military's primary purpose of defending its home territory increasingly looking doubtful, draft also began to become more arbitrary, as only certain portions of a particular birth year were drafted (usually those in very healthy physcial condition), while others weren't. This was seen as a problem of \"Wehrgerechtigkeit\", or equal justice of military service.\n\nThen-German President Roman Herzog said in a 1994 speech (which was frequently cited as an argument for draft abolition) that only the necessity for national defense, not any other arguments can justify draft. On the other hand, this logic tended to not be extended to men serving Wehrersatzdienst, as they usually worked in fields of public health, elderly care, medical assistance or assistance for the disabled. Their relatively low-paid work was seen as an ever more important backbone of a health sector which was grappling with rapidly increasing costs of care.\n\nDraft was finally abolished in Germany in 2011, mainly due to a perceived lack of aforementioned necessity. The German Bundeswehr now solely relies on service members who deliberately choose it as a career path. Neither Article 12a (establishing the possibility of draft) nor Article 4 (3) (permitting conscientious objection) have been removed from the German Constitution. In theory, this makes a full reversion to draft (and Wehrersatzdienst) possible if it is thought to be necessary.\n\nAll Israeli citizens and permanent residents are liable to military service. However, the Ministry of Defense has used its discretion under article 36 of this law to automatically exempt all non-Jewish women and all Arab men, except for the Druze, from military service ever since Israel was established. Israeli Arabs may volunteer to perform military service, but very few do so (except among the Bedouin population of Israel).\n\nIn discussing the status of the armed forces shortly after the founding of the State of Israel, representatives of orthodox religious parties argued that yeshiva students should be exempt from military service. This derives from the Jewish tradition that if a man wants to dedicate his life to religious study, society must allow him to do so. The request of orthodox political parties to 'prevent neglect of studying the Torah' was granted by the authorities. But in recent years this exemption practice has become the subject of debate in Israeli society, as the absolute and the relative numbers of the men who received this exemption rose sharply. In 2012, the Israeli Supreme Court ruled in the case of \"Ressler et al. v. The Knesset et al.\". that the blanket exemption granted to ultra-Orthodox yeshiva students was \"ultra vires\" the authority of the Minister of Defence, and that it violated Basic Law: Human Dignity and Liberty and was, therefore, unconstitutional.\n\nAs for conscientious objection, in 2002, in the case of \"David Zonschein et al. v. Military Advocate General et al.\", the Supreme Court reiterated its position that selective conscientious objection was not permitted, adding that conscientious objection could only be recognized in cases of general objection to military service.\n\nWomen can claim exemption from military service on grounds of conscience under arts. 39 (c) and 40 of the Defense Service Law, according to which religious reasons can be grounds for exemption.\n\nUntil 2004 conscription was mandatory to all able-bodied Italian males. Those who were born in the last months of the year typically used to serve in the Navy, unless judged unable for ship service (in this case they could be sent back to Army or Air Force). Until 1972, objectors were considered as traitors and tried by a military tribunal; after 1972, objectors could choose an alternative civilian service, which was eight months longer than standard military service (fifteen months, then twelve, as for Army and Air Force, 24 months, then eighteen, then twelve as for the Navy). Since such length was judged too punitive, an arrangement was made to make the civilian service as long as the military service. Since 2004, Italian males no longer need to object because military service has been turned into volunteer for both males and females.\n\nIn the Republic of the Marshall Islands no person can be conscripted if, after being afforded a reasonable opportunity to do so, he has established that he is a conscientious objector to participation in war (Marshall Islands Constitution Article II Section 11).\n\nIn Romania, as of 23 October 2006 conscription was suspended, therefore, the status of conscience objector does not apply. This came about due to a 2003 constitutional amendment which allowed the parliament to make military service optional. The Romanian Parliament voted to abolish conscription in October 2005, with the vote formalizing one of many military modernization and reform programs that Romania agreed to when it joined NATO.\n\nThe Russian Empire allowed Russian Mennonites to run and maintain forestry service units in South Russia in lieu of their military obligation. The program was under church control from 1881 through 1918, reaching a peak of seven thousand conscientious objectors during World War I. An additional five thousand Mennonites formed complete hospital units and transport wounded from the battlefield to Moscow and Ekaterinoslav hospitals.\n\nAfter the Russian Revolution of 1917, Leon Trotsky issued a decree allowing alternative service for religious objectors whose sincerity was determined upon examination. Vladimir Chertkov, a follower of Leo Tolstoy, chaired the \"United Council of Religious Fellowships and Groups\", which successfully freed 8000 conscientious objectors from military service during the Russian Civil War. The law was not applied uniformly and hundreds of objectors were imprisoned and over 200 were executed.The United Council was forced to cease activity in December 1920, but alternative service was available under the New Economic Policy until it was abolished in 1936. Unlike the earlier forestry and hospital service, later conscientious objectors were classified \"enemies of the people\" and their alternative service was performed in remote areas in a gulag-like environment in order to break their resistance and encourage enlistment.\n\nIn the present day, Russian draft legislation allows people to choose an alternative civilian service for religious or ideological reasons. Most objectors are employed in healthcare, construction, forestry and post industries, serving 18 to 21 months.\n\nDuring the 1980s, hundreds of South African white males dodged the draft, refused the call-up or objected to conscription in the South African Defence Force. Some simply deserted, or joined organisations such as the End Conscription Campaign, an anti-war movement banned in 1988, while others fled into exile and joined the Committee on South African War Resistance. Most lived in a state of internal exile, forced to go underground within the borders of the country until a moratorium on conscription was declared in 1993. Opposition to the Angolan War, \"South Africa's Vietnam,\" was rife in English-speaking campuses, and later the war in the townships became the focus of these groupings.\n\nThe terminology conscientious objector technically has not existed in Korean dictionary until recently. In fact, significant majority of Korean citizens simply associate conscientious objectors with draft dodging, and are unaware of the fact that conscientious objector draftees in other westernized countries are required to serve in alternative services. Since the establishment of the Republic of Korea, thousands of conscientious objectors had no choice but to be imprisoned as criminals. Every year about 500 young men, mostly Jehovah's Witnesses, are arrested for refusing the draft.\n\nSouth Korea's stance has drawn criticism from The U.N. Human Rights Committee, which argues that South Korea is violating article 18 of the ICCPR, which guarantees freedom of thought and conscience. In 2006, 2010, and again in 2011 the U.N. Human Rights Committee, after reviewing petitions from South Korean conscientious objectors, declared that the government was violating Article 18 of the ICCPR, the provision that guarantees the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion.\n\nThe government's National Action Plan (NAP) for the Promotion and Protection of Human Rights has not shown a clear stance on the pressing human rights issues such as, among other things, the rights of conscientious objectors to military service.\n\nIn September 2007 the government announced a program to give conscientious objectors an opportunity to participate in alternative civilian service. The program stipulates three years of civilian service that is not connected with the military in any way. However, that program has been postponed indefinitely after the succeeding administration took office in 2008.\n\nThe government argues that introducing an alternative service would jeopardize national security and undermine social equality and cohesion. This is amid an increasing number of countries which retain compulsory service have introduced alternatives. In addition, some countries, including those with national security concerns have shown that alternative service can be successfully implemented.\n\nOn January 15, 2009, the Korean Presidential Commission on Suspicious Deaths in the Military released its decision acknowledging that the government was responsible for the deaths of five young men, who were Jehovah's Witnesses and had forcibly been conscripted into the army.\nThe deaths resulted from \"the state's anti-human rights violence\" and \"its acts of brutality\" during the 1970s that continued into the mid-1980s. This decision is significant since it is the first one recognizing the state's responsibility for deaths resulting from violence within the military.\nAccording to the Commission's decision, \"the beatings and acts of brutality committed against them by military officials were attempts to compel and coerce them to act against their conscience (religion) and were unconstitutional, anti-human rights acts that infringed severely upon the freedom of conscience (religion) guaranteed in the Constitution.\"\n\nThe records of conscientious objectors to military service are kept by a governmental investigative body as criminal files for five years. As a consequence, conscientious objectors are not allowed to enter a government office and apply for any type of national certification exam. It is also very unlikely that they will be employed by any company that inquires about criminal records.\nFrom 2000 to 2008, Korean Military Manpower Administration said that at least 4,958 men have objected to service in the military because of religious beliefs. Among those, 4,925 were Jehovah's Witnesses, 3 were Buddhists, and the other 30 refused the mandatory service because of conscientious objections other than religious reasons.\nSince 1950, there have been more than 16,000 Jehovah's Witnesses sentenced to a combined total of 31,256 years for refusing to perform military service. If alternative service is not provided, some 500 to 900 young men will continue to be added each year to the list of conscientious objectors criminalized in Korea.\n\nIn 2015, Lee Yeda was the first conscientious objector to be allowed to live in France via asylum.\n\nIn June 2018, the Constitutional Court ruled 6-3 that Article 5 of the country's Military Service Act is unconstitutional because it fails to provide an alternative civilian national service for conscientious objectors. , 19,300 South Korean conscientious objectors had gone to prison since 1953. The Defense Ministry said it would honor the ruling by introducing alternative services as soon as possible.\n\nConscientious objection was not permitted in Francoist Spain. Conscientious objectors usually refused to serve on religious grounds, such as being Jehovah's Witnesses, and were placed in prison for the duration of their sentences. The Spanish Constitution of 1978 acknowledged conscientious objectors. The Spanish parliament established a longer service (\"Prestación Social Sustitutoria\") as an alternative to the Army. In spite of this, a strong movement appeared that refused both services. The Red Cross was the only important organisation employing objectors. Because of this, the waiting lists for the PSS were long, especially in areas like Navarre, where pacifism, Basque nationalism and a low unemployment rate discouraged young males from the army. Thousands of \"insumisos\" (non-submittants) publicly refused the PSS, and hundreds were imprisoned. In addition a number of those in the military decided to refuse further duties. A number of people not liable for military service made declarations of self-incrimination, stating that they had encouraged \"insumisión\". The government, fearing popular reaction, reduced the length of service and instead of sentencing \"insumisos\" to prison declared them unfit for public service.\n\nFronting the decreasing birth rate and the popular opposition to the army, the Spanish government tried to modernise the model carried from the Franco era, professionalizing it. The new army tried to provide an education for civilian life and participated in peace operations in Bosnia.\n\nThe issue is highly controversial in Turkey. Turkey, Armenia and Azerbaijan are the only three countries refusing to recognize conscientious objection and sustain their membership in the Council of Europe. In January 2006, the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) found Turkey had violated article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights (prohibition of degrading treatment) in a case dealing with the conscientious objection of Osman Murat Ulke. In 2005, Mehmet Tarhan was sentenced to four years in a military prison as a conscientious objector (he was unexpectedly released in March 2006). Journalist Perihan Magden was tried by a Turkish court for supporting Tarhan and advocating conscientious objection as a human right; but later, she was acquitted.\n\n, there were 125 objectors including 25 female objectors in Turkey. Another 256 people of Kurdish origin also had announced their conscientious objection to military service. Conscientious objector İnan Süver was named a prisoner of conscience by Amnesty International.\n\nOn 14 November 2011, the Ministry of Justice announced a draft proposal to legalise conscientious objection in Turkey and that it was to take effect two weeks after approval by the President to the change. This decision to legalize by the Turkish government was because of pressure from the European Court of Human Rights. The ECHR gave the Turkish government a deadline until the end of 2011 to legalize conscientious objection. The draft was withdrawn afterwards.\n\nA commission was founded within the National Assembly of the Republic to write a new constitution in 2012. The commission is still in negotiations on various articles and conscientious objection is one of the most controversial issues.\n\nThe United Kingdom recognised the right of individuals not to fight in the 18th century following problems with attempting to force Quakers into military service. The Militia Ballot Act of 1757 allowed Quakers to be excluded from service in the Militia. It then ceased to be a major issue, since Britain's armed forces were generally all-volunteer. However, press gangs were used to beef up army and navy rolls on occasions from the 16th to the early 19th centuries. Pressed men did have the right of appeal, in the case of sailors, to the Admiralty. The Royal Navy last took pressed men in the Napoleonic War.\n\nA more general right to refuse military service was not introduced until the First World War. Britain introduced conscription with the Military Service Act of January 1916, which came into full effect on 2 March 1916. The Act allowed for objectors to be absolutely exempted, to perform alternative civilian service, or to serve as a non-combatant in the army's Non-Combatant Corps, according to the extent to which they could convince a Military Service Tribunal of the quality of their objection.\n\nAround 16,000 men were recorded as conscientious objectors, with Quakers, traditionally pacifist, forming a large proportion: 4,500 objectors were exempted on condition of doing civilian 'work of national importance', such as farming, forestry or social service; and 7,000 were conscripted into the specially-created Non-Combatant Corps. However, 6,000 were refused any exemption and forced into main army regiments; if they then refused to obey orders, they were court-martialled and sent to prison. Thus, the well-known pacifist and religious writer Stephen Henry Hobhouse was called up in 1916: he and many other Quaker activists took the unconditionalist stand, refusing both military and alternative service, and on enforced enlistment were court-martialled and imprisoned for disobedience. Conscientious objectors formed only a tiny proportion of Military Service Tribunals' cases over the whole conscription period, estimated at around 2%. Tribunals were notoriously harsh towards conscientious objectors, reflecting widespread public opinion that they were lazy, degenerate, ungrateful 'shirkers' seeking to benefit from the sacrifices of others.\n\nThirty-five objectors, including the Richmond Sixteen, were taken to France and formally sentenced to death by court-martial but immediately reprieved, with commutation to ten-years' penal servitude. Conditions were very hard for conscientious objector prisoners, many of whom were not used to manual work, lack of regular exercise, and the often cold, damp conditions; ten died in prison, and around seventy more died elsewhere as a result of their treatment.\n\nAlthough a few objectors were accepted for non-combatant service in the Royal Army Medical Corps, acting as nursing/paramedic assistants, the majority of non-combatants served in the Non-Combatant Corps on non-lethal stores, road and railway building and general labouring in the UK and France. Conscientious objectors who were deemed not to have made any useful contribution to the state were formally disfranchised (through a clause inserted in the Representation of the People Act 1918 at the insistence of back-bench MPs) for the five years 1 September 1921 - 31 August 1926, but as it was a last-minute amendment there was no administrative machinery to enforce such disfranchisement, which was admitted to be a \"dead letter\".\n\nBritain's conscription legislation of 1916 did not apply to Ireland, despite it being then all part of the United Kingdom. However, in 1918 the Army's continuing demand for more troops led to passing a further act enabling conscription in Ireland if and when the government saw fit. In the event, the government never saw fit, although the legislation led to the Conscription Crisis of 1918. Similarly, British conscription in the Second World War did not apply to Northern Ireland. Nevertheless, many Irishmen volunteered to fight in both world wars. The various parts of the British Empire and Commonwealth had their own laws: in general, all the larger countries of the Empire participated, and some were, in proportion to their population, major participants in the First World War.\n\nIn the Second World War, following the National Service (Armed Forces) Act 1939, there were nearly 60,000 registered Conscientious Objectors. Testing by tribunals resumed, this time by special Conscientious Objection Tribunals chaired by a judge, and the effects were much less harsh. If you were not a member of the Quakers or some similar pacifist organisation, it was generally enough to say that you objected to \"warfare as a means of settling international disputes\", a phrase from the Kellogg-Briand Pact of 1928. The tribunals could grant full exemption, exemption conditional on alternative service, exemption only from combatant duties, or dismiss the application. Of the 61,000 who were registered, 3,000 were given complete exemption; 18,000 applications were initially dismissed, but a number of such applicants succeeded at the Appellate Tribunal, sometimes after a \"qualifying\" sentence of three-months' imprisonment for an offence deemed to have been committed on grounds of conscience. Of those directed to non-combatant military service almost 7,000 were allocated to the Non-Combatant Corps, re-activated in mid-1940; its companies worked in clothing and food stores, in transport, or any military project not requiring the handling of \"material of an aggressive nature\". In November 1940 it was decided to allow troops in the NCC to volunteer for work in bomb disposal. In total over 350 volunteered. Other non-combatants worked in the Royal Army Medical Corps. For conscientious objectors exempted conditional upon performing civil work, acceptable occupations were farm work, mining, firefighting and the ambulance service. About 5,500 objectors were imprisoned, most charged with refusal to attend a medical examination as a necessary preliminary to call-up after being refused exemption, and some charged with non-compliance with the terms of conditional exemption. A further 1,000 were court-martialled by the armed forces and sent to military detention barracks or civil prisons. Differently from the First World War, most sentences were relatively short, and there was no pattern of continually repeated sentences. Nevertheless, the social stigma attached to 'conchies' (as they were called) was considerable; regardless of the genuineness of their motives, cowardice was often imputed.\n\nConscription in the United Kingdom was retained, with rights of conscientious objection, as National Service until the last call-up in 1960 and the last discharge in 1963. The use of all volunteer soldiers was hoped to remove the need to consider conscientious objectors. Ever since the First World War, however, there have been volunteer members of the armed forces who have developed a conscientious objection to continuing in service; a procedure was devised for them in the Second World War, and, with adaptations, it continues to this day.\n\nThere are currently legal provisions in the United States for recognizing conscientious objection, both through the Selective Service System and through the Department of Defense. The United States recognizes religious and moral objections, but not selective objections. Conscientious objectors in the United States may perform either civilian work or noncombatant service in lieu of combatant military service.\n\nHistorically, conscientious objectors have been persecuted in the United States. After the Selective Service System was founded during World War I, such persecutions decreased in frequency, and recognition for conscientious objectors grew.\n\nAs of 2005, conscientious objectors in several countries may serve as field paramedics in the army (although some do not consider this a genuine alternative, as they feel it merely helps to make war more humane instead of preventing it). Alternatively, they may serve without arms, although this, too, has its problems. In certain European countries such as Austria, Germany, Greece and Switzerland, there is the option of performing civilian service, subject to the review of a written application or after a hearing about the state of conscience. In Germany, however, the draft was suspended in 2011. In Greece, civilian service is twice as long as the corresponding military service; the Swiss Civilian Service is one and one-half times longer. In 2005, the Swiss parliament considered whether willingness to serve one and a half times longer than an army recruit was sufficient proof of sincerity, citing that the cost of judging the state of conscience of a few thousand men per year was too great.\n\nOnly three European Union countries – Germany, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom – recognize the right to conscientious objection for contract and professional military personnel.\n\nIn the United States, military personnel who come to a conviction of conscientious objection during their tour of duty must appear in front of a panel of experts, which consists of psychiatrists, military chaplains and officers.\n\nIn Switzerland, the panel consists entirely of civilians, and military personnel have no authority whatsoever. In Germany, the draft has been suspended since 2011.\n\nInvestigators ask questions to determine the sincerity of an individual's convictions. Responses such as \"the army is senseless,\" \"it is not just to wage wars,\" or opposing participation in merely some wars, indicate sociological, philosophical, or political objections, which are not accepted alone.\n\nThe following are questions often asked of conscientious objectors in Swiss hearings.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56367927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56367927", "title": "Culture of peace", "text": "Culture of peace\n\nThe Declaration and Programme of Action on a Culture of Peace was adopted by the United Nations General Assembly on September 13, 1999. This occurred after ten months of negotiations in the context of preparations for the International Year for the Culture of Peace.\n\nUN resolution A/53/243.. called for the programme of action to include eight action areas:\n\nAs explained by UNESCO, \"each of these areas of action have been priorities of the United Nations since its foundation; what is new is their linkage through the culture of peace and non-violence into a single coherent concept. Linkages have often been made (for example, democracy, development and peace; equality between women and men with development and peace, and so forth). This is the first time, however, that all these areas are interlinked so that the sum of their complementarities and synergies can be developed.\"\n\nUnited Nations consideration of the culture of peace began in 1992 with the adoption by UNESCO of a Culture of Peace Programme. As the programme developed during the following decade, the United Nations General Assembly began requesting information from UNESCO about its progress. The General Assembly then declared the Year 2000 as the International Year for the Culture of Peace and requested UNESCO to submit a draft Declaration and Programme of Action on a Culture of Peace, which the General Assembly adopted on September 13, 1999. The General Assembly also declared the Decade 2001-2010 as the International Decade for a Culture of Peace and Non-Violence for the Children of the World.\n\nSince his retirement from UNESCO where he had promoted the culture of peace in his capacity as Director-General, Federico Mayor has coordinated the Fundacion Cultura de Paz. Since his retirement from UNESCO where he chaired the task force for the International Year for the Culture of Peace, David Adams has coordinated the Culture of Peace News Network which was established for the International Year for the Culture of Peace.\n\nAfter stating that \"the creation of the United Nations system itself, based upon universally shared values and goals, has been a major act towards transformation from a culture of war and violence to a culture of peace and non-violence\", the UN General Assembly, in its resolution 52/13 of 20 November 1997, requested UNESCO to submit to its next session a draft declaration and programme of action on a culture of peace. UNESCO supplied the requested document which was then taken under consideration by the General Assembly, beginning in December 1998. The document encountered resistance and the situation at first was not encouraging. One reason was the fact that the draft declaration referred to a \"human right to peace,\" a concept vigorously opposed by the Great Powers. \n\nThe programme of action also calls for a global movement for a culture of peace and the sharing of information among \"actors on their initiatives in this regard\".\n\nAddressing the General Assembly, Ambassador Anwarul Karim Chowdhury of Bangladesh, who had chaired the informal consultation process, called it a unique and universal document: \n\nI believe that this document is unique in more than one way. It is a universal document in the real sense, transcending boundaries, cultures, societies and nations. Unlike many other General Assembly documents, this document is action-oriented and encourages actions at all levels, be they at the level of the individual, the community, the nation or the region, or at the global and international levels.\n\nThe Manifesto was drafted for the International Year for the Culture of Peace by a group of Nobel Peace Prize winners in order to translate the resolutions of the United Nations into everyday language addressed to all people.\n\nThe Manifesto asked individuals to pledge \"in my daily life, in my family, my work, my community, my country and my region, to\":\n\n\nThe Manifesto was translated into more than 50 languages and personally signed by many\nHeads of State and Government. It was diffused throughout the world and individuals were invited to sign and commit themselves to practise its principles in everyday life. As a result, by the end of the International Year, it had been signed by over 74 million individuals, including by more than 1 million each from Brazil, Colombia, India, Japan, Kenya, Nepal and Republic of Korea.\n\nDetailed data entries for the 20 countries with more than 100,000 signatures are shown on the UNESCO website for the Year\n\nThe culture of peace resolution and the Manifesto 2000 campaign were the culmination of a decade-long Culture of Peace Programme at UNESCO. The Programme was adopted by the UNESCO Executive Board in the fall of 1992, in order to ″heal the social wounds of war by local activities of reconciliation and co-operation in countries where Security Council peace-keeping operations are already being implemented or may be anticipated because of developing violence.″\n\nThe first major test of the Culture of Peace Programme was in El Salvador using the methodology of \"cross-conflict participation\" by which the reconciliation of those who had been fighting against each other in the past was promoted by their joint participation in the planning and implementation of projects designed to benefit all concerned in fields such as education, culture, communication and science\n\nThe national culture of peace programmes did not receive the needed political and financial support from the UNESCO Member States, and were all discontinued.\n\nIn 1997, the most important year in the development of UNESCO/UN culture of peace initiative, three separate initiatives converged: the proclamation of the International Year for the Culture of Peace (2000); the proposal for the UN Declaration and Programme of Action on a Culture of Peace (see above); and the initiative of the Nobel Peace Laureates \"Campaign for the Children of the World\" that would eventually become the International Decade for a Culture of Peace and Non-Violence for the Children of the World (2001-2010).\n\nIn recent years UNESCO has continued to actively promote the culture of peace in Africa with programs co-ordinated by its field office in Gabon and in cooperation with governments and foundations in Angola and Côte d'Ivoire.\n\nBeginning in 2012 the President of the United Nations General Assembly has convened in September a High-Level Forum on the Culture of Peace. The themes of the 2012 Forum were education, youth outreach, and women’s empowerment. UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon opened the Forum, saying “When we look at the suffering in our world, we know how urgently we need a culture of peace.”\n\nSince 2012, similar High-Level Forums have been held at United Nations Headquarters each September.\n\nOn his retirement as Director-General of UNESCO, Federico Mayor established the Fundación Cultura de Paz to continue the work he had supervised while at UNESCO. The Fundación has sponsored many events and projects over the years, including the midterm and final reports for the International Decade for a Culture of Peace and Non-Violence for the Children of the World. Mayor is frequently invited to address audiences around the world on the subject of the culture of peace \n\nThe Fundación maintains an updated History of the Culture of Peace which contains references to hundreds of documents and events that have followed up the recommendations of the Declaration and Programme of Action on a Culture of Peace\n\nThe Culture of Peace News Network, begun at UNESCO as part of the International Year for the Culture of Peace, has been continued as a source of news of events that promote the culture of peace. It is updated more or less daily with articles from around the world promoting at least one of the eight program areas of the culture of peace, and a review of the news is sent out as a bulletin each month.\n\n"}
{"id": "6447275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6447275", "title": "Direct Action to Stop the War", "text": "Direct Action to Stop the War\n\nDirect Action to Stop the War (DASW) was an organization that coordinated nonviolent direct action-based opposition activities to the 2003 invasion of Iraq in the San Francisco Bay Area. The organization was founded in October 2002 following an overnight sit-in and morning blockade at the San Francisco Federal Building following the U.S. Congress's authorization of the use of force against Iraq. Operating primarily through the use of affinity groups and a spokescouncil, it coordinated a mass effort by 5,000 to 20,000 people to disrupt business in the financial district of downtown San Francisco following the beginning of the war in March 2003. The organization persisted through 2004, coordinating a variety of local protests against corporations with ties to the war effort and sending hundreds of activists to protests in Cancun, Miami and New York City.\n\nThe March 2003 San Francisco actions were the culmination of twenty years of urban direct action organizing. Beginning with the War Chest Tours of the early 1980s and continuing through the 1991 Gulf War and other occasions, direct activists developed the blockading and disruptive tactics that were used by thousands of protesters in opposition to the 2003 war on Iraq. The 1980s protests are documented with photos and narratives at DirectAction.org.\n\nOn Jan. 6, 2008, Direct Action to Stop the War was reconvened, with the goal of organizing several direct actions in the San Francisco Bay Area to coincide with the fifth anniversary of the Iraq War.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10445418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10445418", "title": "Eastern philosophy in clinical psychology", "text": "Eastern philosophy in clinical psychology\n\nEastern philosophy in clinical psychology refers to the influence of Eastern philosophies on the practice of clinical psychology based on the idea that East and West are false dichotomies. Travel and trade along the Silk Road brought ancient texts and mind practices deep into the West. Vedic psychology dates back 5000 years and forms the core of mental health counselling in the Ayurvedic medical tradition. The knowledge that enlightened Siddhartha Gautama was the self-management of mental suffering through mindfulness awareness practices. Humane interpersonal care of the mentally disturbed was practiced in the Middle East in the Middle Ages, and later in the West. Many of the founders of clinical psychology were influenced by these ancient texts as translations began to reach Europe during the 19th century.\n\nThe historical practice of clinical psychology may be distinguished from the modern profession of clinical psychology. The Greek word \"psyche\" means 'breath' or 'soul', while \"-logy\" (from \"logos\", meaning 'speech') means 'study of'. Psyche was the Greek goddess of the soul. An early use of the word clinic was to describe 'one who receives baptism on a sick bed' (Webster 1913). In contemporary use it usually describes another kind of cleansing and rebirth – a non-hospital, healthcare facility for rehabilitation in the community.\n\nPatanjali was one of the founders of the yoga tradition, sometime between 200 and 400 BC (pre-dating Buddhist psychology) and a student of the Vedas. He developed the science of breath and mind and wrote his knowledge in the form of between 194 and 196 aphorisms called the Yoga Sutras of Patanjali. These remain one of the only scientific books written in poetic form. He is reputed to have used yoga therapeutically for anxiety, depression and mental disorders as common then as now.\nPadmasambhava was the 8th-century medicine Buddha of Tibet, called from the then Buddhist India to tame the Tibetans, and was instrumental in developing Tibetan psychiatric medicine. Tibetans were diplomats, counselors, traders, warriors and military tacticians in the Royal courts of East and West. Through these means they introduced arts of war and medicine to the west.\n\nRhazes was a Persian physician and scholar of the Middle Ages who had a profound effect on Western thought and medicine as well as the invention of alcohol and of sulfur drugs. He applied the psychology of self-esteem in clinical treatment of his patients (predating Nathaniel Branden by over a thousand years). He opened the first hospital ward for humane treatment of the mentally ill.\n\nAvicenna's \"Canon of Medicine\" was a standard medical text in many European universities for 500 years. He performed psychotherapy without conversing, by observing the movement of a patient's pulse as the patient recounted broken hearted anguish, reported in 'The Life and Work of Jalaluddin Rumi' by Afzal Iqbal, A. J. Arberry, page 94. His treatises have touched most of the Muslim circle of the sciences.\n\nJalaluddin Rumi's view on psychotherapy was to embrace the dread, depression and anger as a blessing. Negative emotions were a bridge to a better life. This style of coping is illustrated in his guesthouse poem: \n\nSigmund Freud read the German translation of the works of Hayyim ben Joseph Vital (1542–1620). Vital was a 16th-century rabbi who had been Isaac Luria's student, the great master of the theosophical Kabbalah. Freud read the French translation of the Zohar. He declared the material 'gold!' without acknowledging that source in his theories. His corpus was deeply influenced by his Jewish heritage and by the Jewish mysticism.\nCarl Jung read the German translations by Richard Wilhelm of \"The Secret of the Golden Flower\", the I Ching. He also read the Kabbalah and drew on its sources for development of his theory of the archetypes.\n\nMartin Buber\n\nKaren Horney studied Zen-Buddhism.\n\nFritz Perls studied Zen Buddhism. Typifying such a perspective, Perls once stated: We must lose our minds and come to our senses.\n\nErich Fromm collaborated with D. T. Suzuki in a 1957 workshop on \"Zen Buddhism and Psychoanalysis\"; wrote the foreword to a 1986 anthology of Nyanaponika Thera's essays.\n\nErik H. Erikson wrote a biography of Gandhi.\nViktor Frankl was the founder of Logotherapy. He wrote \"From Death Camp to Existentialism\" (1959) drawing on concentration camp experience and Jewish mysticism.\n\nAbraham Maslow, an American-born Jew who struggled to make his way as a psychologist in an academic atmosphere which was not then ready to receive Jews. He believed his theories of motivation and self-actualization were, despite his avowed atheism, driven by a Jewish consciousness. The Transpersonal psychology that Maslow founded is a blend of Eastern and Western mystic traditions.\n\nStanislav Grof studied pre-industrial cosmologies including Egyptian and explored the significance of the posthumous journey of the soul in works such as \"Books of the Dead\" and \"The Human Encounter with Death\".\n\nBaruch Spinoza's legacy to psychology includes his holistic approach and determinism. He was alienated from his Jewish roots by excommunication and yet embedded in Jewish philosophy and mysticism, for example, 'The human mind cannot be absolutely destroyed with the body, but something of it remains, which is eternal. We feel and know by experience that we are eternal'. (Book V, Proposition 23). He distinguished between active emotions (those that are rationally understood) and passive emotions (those that are not). This predated Freud's popularization of the unconscious mind. His view, that emotions must be detached from external cause in order to master them, presages rational emotive therapy. His understanding of the workings of mind makes a bridge between religious mysticism and clinical psychology.\n\nArthur Schopenhauer was deeply influenced by the first translations of Hindu and Buddhist texts to reach the west in the 19th Century. His philosophy and methods of inquiry have many similarities to those traditions. His ideas foreshadowed and laid the groundwork for Darwin's theory of evolution and Freud's concepts of libido and unconscious mind. He added empiricism to self-examination, which presaged Freud's interpersonal application in psychoanalysis.\nCaroline Rhys Davids was a Pali scholar who translated original Pali texts in Buddhist Psychology. In 1914, she wrote \"Buddhist Psychology: An Inquiry into the Analysis and Theory of Mind in Pali Literature\". Her teacher in Psychology was George Croom Robertson, Scottish philosopher, editor of Mind from foundation in 1876 until 1891.\n\nRichard Wilhelm was a translator of Chinese into German of the I Ching, Tao Te Ching and The Secret of the Golden Flower, with a forward written by Jung, a close personal friend.\nIdries Shah was an author in the Naqshbandi sufist tradition who wrote works on psychology and spirituality. Defined Sufism in a way that predated Islam and did not depend on the Qur'an.\n\nColeman Barks has translated ecstatic poems of Rumi and other mystic poets of Persia.\n\nJack Kornfield trained as a Buddhist monk in India and Southeast Asia, holds a PhD in clinical psychology and co-founded the Insight Meditation Society and the Spirit Rock Meditation Center. His books include \"Seeking the Heart of Wisdom\" (1987, co-authored with Joseph Goldstein), \"A Path with Heart\" (1993) and \"The Art of Forgiveness, Lovingkindness and Peace\" (2002).\n\nDaniel Goleman taught psychology at Harvard, wrote on science for the New York Times and is the author of the best-selling \"Emotional Intelligence\" (1995) and \"Destructive Emotions: A Scientific Dialogue with the Dalai Lama\" (Bantam Books, 2003).\n\nThomas Cleary was a prolific translator of Buddhist, Taoist, Confucian and Muslim religious literature. First publication with his brother of the Blue Cliff Record in 1992.\n\nMarsha M. Linehan incorporates mindfulness techniques (particularly Zen practices) in her Dialectical Behavioral Therapy (DBT) which has been found to be particularly effective with Cluster-B personality disorders.\n\nJon Kabat-Zinn incorporates Buddhist mindfulness techniques in his Mindfulness Based Stress Reduction (MBSR) program.\n\nMark Epstein is the author of \"Thoughts Without a Thinker|Thoughts without a Thinker: Psychotherapy from a Buddhist Perspective\" (1995) and \"Going to Pieces Without Falling Apart\" (1998).\n\nMordechai Rotenberg has adopted the Kabbalistic-Hasidic tzimtzum paradigm, which he believes has significant implications for clinical therapy. According to this paradigm, God's \"self-contraction\" to vacate space for the world serves as a model for human behavior and interaction. The tzimtzum model promotes a unique community-centric approach which contrasts starkly with the language of Western psychology.\n\n\n\n\n\nNeuroscience and Buddhism\nSarunya Prasopchingchana & Dana Sugu, 'Distinctiveness of the Unseen Buddhist Identity' ([1]International Journal of Humanistic Ideology, Cluj-Napoca, Romania, vol. 4, 2010)\n"}
{"id": "290266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290266", "title": "Encomium", "text": "Encomium\n\nEncomium is a Latin word deriving from the Classical Greek ἐγκώμιον (\"enkomion\") meaning \"the praise of a person or thing.\" \"Encomium\" also refers to several distinct aspects of rhetoric:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50797072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50797072", "title": "Femicides in Honduras", "text": "Femicides in Honduras\n\nThe femicides in Honduras is a concept which designates the murders comitted against women within the Honduras territory in Central America, since 1990. According to the Penal Code in force until 2018, the crime of femicide is incurred, when a man or men kill a woman for reasons of gender, with hatred and contempt for her condition as a woman. Between 2002 and 2013 3,923 women were murdered. The number of femicides makes up 9.6% of the total number of homicides in the country. In 2013, 53 women were killed every month and, as it occurs in the rest of murders, more than 90% of the cases were left in impunity. Before being killed, the women are commonly also burned, raped, and tortured. Between 2010 and 2013 the number of murders increased in 65%.\n\nThe local national authorities have been accused of inaction by the population, given that in many cases it has not been cleared the responsibility of said felonies. There are a few government and non-government organizations that provide support to the mothers and relatives victims of femicide. In 2015, the Honduran government committed with 30 million Honduran lempiras for the creation of a special unit in the 2016 budget for femicide investigation.\n\nThe violent deaths of women and femicides registered between January and December of 2017, added up a total of 389 cases. To disaggregate the data according to the age of the victims, 30.1% (117) was between 15 and 24 years old, women that are in the process of building their identity, educational training, and reproductive age. The records show that the greatest vulnerability occurred in the range of 20 to 24 years, accumulating 17.2% (67) of the total, while the age groups that showed the lowest number of victims were girls under 15 years of age with 32 cases and women aged 60 and over, with 21 victims.\n\nAs in most homicides comitted in Honduras, femicides continue to occur due to lack of investigation and judicial process.\n\nRiccy Mabel Martínez Sevilla, born in The Ceiba Caribbean region of Honduras, was a third-year student of education at the \"Escuela Normal Mixta Pedro Nufio\" in Tegucigalpa.\n\nHer boyfriend, Rubén Hurtado Padilla, had been recruited to serve the mandatory military service, so Riccy Mabel decided to visit the Battalion of Communications in the outskirts of Tegucigalpa to request her boyfriend's release. That same day, Riccy disappeared, she was raped and killed by at least four men, according to the FBI forensic exams.\n\nHer body was found on July 15, 1991 by a stream, one of the main suspects in the rape and killing was Colonel Ángel Castillo Maradiaga.\n\nA key witness of the crime was Esteban García, an ice cream vendor, who affirmed having seen the teenager on board a car identical to that of the colonel, but a few days earlier of his statement he was beaten to death by a gang in an apparent robbery.\n\nBlanca Jeanette Kawas was a Honduran environmental activist known for her role in the preservation of more than 400 species of flora and fauna. She carried out acts against the Carlos Roberto Reina Idiáquez government due to the granting of property titles to farmers and business men in the \"Punta Sal\" reserves, today known as the Jeanette Kawas National Park.\n\nTwo days after the protest, on February 6, 1995, at 7:45 pm, Jeanette Kawas was shot dead with a firearm by two unidentified suspects in her house in Barrio El Centro, in Tela, Atlántida. Among the murder suspects are Colonel Mario Amaya (known as \"Tigre Amaya\"), who would have met with Sargeant Ismael Perdomo and Mario Pineda (known as \"Chapin\") in the police headquarters of Tela.\n\nIn November 2014, adolescent María José Alvarado and her sister Sofía Trinidad were murdered at a party while celebrating the birthday of Sofía's ex-boyfriend. Her boyfriend Plutarco Ruíz was identified by witnesses as the murderer, and he eventually confessed to the crime. Having been declared guilty, his sentence was predicted to be between 60 and 80 years. He was sentenced on November 12, 2015.\n\nBerta Cáceres, a Lenca environmental activist and indigenous leader, was murdered on March 2, 2016. She was killed in her home by unidentifed intruders with a fireaarm after years of threats against her life. Cáceres' death was widely condemned, with calls for an investigation coming from the Organization of American States (OAS), the U.S. Ambassador to Honduras, and the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights. Honduran president Juan Orlando Hernández declared the investigation of the murder a priority, and Luis Almagro, the Secretary General of the OAS, reiterated the OAS's previous call for special protection of indigenous human rights defenders in Honduras. Other expressions of support came from American actor and environmentalist Leonardo DiCaprio, Canadian author and activist Naomi Klein, Amnesty International, former Colombian senator Piedad Córdoba, Oxfam, the Mayor of Barcelona Ada Colau, U.S. Senator Patrick Leahy, and Venezuelan president Nicolás Maduro.\n\nOne of the most common methods of murdering women in Honduras is contract killing, shooting the women either inside or outside of their residence and then escaping.\n\nIn February 2013 the National Congress of Honduras approved a reform in the national civil code which classified femicide as a serious felony, sanctioning with a sentence of up to 40 years in prison.\n\nCauses for the high level of femicides in Honduras are varied, although one of the principal causes is impunity, because 90% of murders are not investigated, so the killers continue to commit more femicides. \n\nIn 2015, the government of Honduras attributed 30 million Honduran lempiras to the creation of a special unit in the 2016 budget for the investigation of femicides.\n\n"}
{"id": "1138884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1138884", "title": "Football hooliganism", "text": "Football hooliganism\n\nFootball hooliganism is the term used to describe disorderly, violent or destructive behaviour perpetrated by spectators at association football events.\n\nFootball hooliganism normally involves conflict between gangs, in English known as football firms (the term derives from the British slang for a criminal gang), formed for the purpose of intimidating and physically attacking supporters of other teams. Other English-language terms commonly used in connection with hooligan firms include \"army\", \"boys\", \"casuals\", and \"crew\". Certain clubs have long-standing rivalries with other clubs and hooliganism associated with matches between them (sometimes called local derbies) is likely to be more severe.\n\nConflict may take place before, during or after matches. Participants often select locations away from stadiums to avoid arrest by the police, but conflict can also erupt spontaneously inside the stadium or in the surrounding streets. In extreme cases, hooligans, police, and bystanders have been killed, and body-armoured riot police have intervened with tear gas, police dogs, armoured vehicles and water cannons. Hooligan-led violence has been called \"aggro\" (short for \"aggravation\") and \"bovver\" (the Cockney pronunciation of \"bother\", i.e. trouble).\n\nHooligans who have the time and money, may follow national teams to away matches and engage in hooligan behaviour against the hooligans of the home team. They may also become involved in disorder involving the general public. While national-level firms do not exist in the form of club-level firms, hooligans supporting the national team may use a collective name indicating their allegiance.\n\nFootball hooliganism involves a wide range of behaviour, including:\n\nThe first instance of football violence is unknown, but the phenomenon can be traced back to 14th-century England. In 1314, Edward II banned football (at that time, a violent, unruly activity involving rival villages kicking a pig's bladder across the local heath) because he believed the disorder surrounding matches might lead to social unrest, or even treason. According to a University of Liverpool academic paper, conflict at an 1846 match in Derby, England, required a reading of the \"riot act\" and two groups of dragoons to effectively respond to the disorderly crowd. This same paper also identified \"pitch invasions\" as a common occurrence during the 1880s in English football.\n\nThe first recorded instances of football hooliganism in the modern game allegedly occurred during the 1880s in England, a period when gangs of supporters would intimidate neighbourhoods, in addition to attacking referees, opposing supporters and players. In 1885, after Preston North End beat Aston Villa 5–0 in a friendly match, both teams were pelted with stones, attacked with sticks, punched, kicked and spat at. One Preston player was beaten so severely that he lost consciousness and press reports at the time described the fans as \"howling roughs\". The following year, Preston fans fought Queen's Park fans in a railway station—the first alleged instance of football hooliganism outside of a match. In 1905, a number of Preston fans were tried for hooliganism, including a \"drunk and disorderly\" 70-year-old woman, following their match against Blackburn Rovers.\n\nAlthough instances of football crowd violence and disorder have been a feature of association football throughout its history (e.g. Millwall's ground was reportedly closed in 1920, 1934 and 1950 after crowd disturbances), the phenomenon only started to gain the media's attention in the late 1950s due to the re-emergence of violence in Latin American football. In the 1955–56 English football season, Liverpool and Everton fans were involved in a number of incidents and, by the 1960s, an average of 25 hooligan incidents were being reported each year in England. The label \"football hooliganism\" first began to appear in the English media in the mid-1960s, leading to increased media interest in, and reporting of, acts of disorder. It has been argued that this in turn created a 'moral panic' out of proportion with the scale of the actual problem.\n\nFootball hooliganism has factors in common with juvenile delinquency and what has been called \"ritualized male violence\". Sports Studies scholars Paul Gow and Joel Rookwood at Liverpool Hope University found in a 2008 study that \"Involvement in football violence can be explained in relation to a number of factors, relating to interaction, identity, legitimacy and power. Football violence is also thought to reflect expressions of strong emotional ties to a football team, which may help to reinforce a supporter’s sense of identity.\" In relation to the Heysel Stadium disaster one study from 1986 claimed that alcohol, irregular tickets sales, the disinterest of the organisers and the \"'cowardly ineptitude'\" of the police had led to the tragedy. Gow and Rookwood's 2008 study, which used interviews with British football hooligans found that while some identified structural social and physiological causes (e.g. aggression produces violent reactions) most interviewees claimed that media reports (especially in newspapers) and the police's handling of hooligan related events were the main causes of hooliganism. Political reasons may also play in part in hooliganism, especially if there is a political undertone to such a match (e.g. unfriendly nations facing each other).\n\nAs an attempt to explain the hooliganism phenomena in Brazil, Nepomuceno and other scholars at Federal University of Pernambuco has accessed 1363 hooligan incidents before and after an alcohol sanction enforced during 8 years. While alcohol presented low evidence to contribute for the incidents of violence, the knockout phases, finals, competitiveness (derby matches), small score boundaries and the pride levels were some of the potentials for the violence among sports spectators. Months after the work being conducted, the State Legislature of Pernambuco decided to abolish the sanction to allow alcohol intake in stadiums. Writing for the BBC in 2013, David Bond stated that in the UK, \n\nFootball hooligans often appear to be less interested in the football match than in the associated violence. They often engage in behaviour that risks their being arrested before the match, denied admittance to the stadium, ejected from the stadium during the match or banned from attending future matches. Hooligan groups often associate themselves with, and congregate in, a specific section (called an \"end\" in England) of their team's stadium, and sometimes they include the section's name in the name of their group. In the United Kingdom, 1960s and early 1970s football hooliganism was associated with the skinhead subculture. Later, the casual subculture transformed the British football hooligan scene. Instead of wearing working class skinhead-style clothes, which readily identified hooligans to the police, hooligans began wearing designer clothes and expensive \"offhand\" sportswear (clothing worn without careful attention to practical considerations), particularly Stone Island, Prada, Burberry, CP Company, Sergio Tacchini and Adidas.\n\nPolice and civil authorities in various countries with hooligan problems have taken a number of measures, including:\n\nFootball hooliganism in Bosnia and Herzegovina is particularly associated with the supporters of clubs such as FK Sarajevo (Horde Zla), FK Željezničar Sarajevo (The Maniacs), FK Velež Mostar (Red Army), HŠK Zrinjski Mostar (Ultrasi) and FK Borac Banja Luka (Lešinari). Other clubs with hooligans as supporters include FK Sloboda Tuzla (Fukare), NK Čelik Zenica (Robijaši) and NK Široki Brijeg (Škripari).\n\nHooliganism reflects local ethnic divisions and tensions. Bosniak oriented groups are fans of FK Sarajevo, FK Željezničar and FK Velež Mostar. Serb oriented groups are fans of FK Borac Banja Luka, FK Slavija, and FK Drina Zvornik (Vukovi). Croat oriented groups are fans of NK Široki Brijeg (Škripari) and HŠK Zrinjski Mostar.\n\nMany fans are associated with fascist ideologies, supporting and glorifying extremist movements such as the Ustaše, Chetniks and Nazis.\n\nIn 2009 riots between supports of Bosnian Premier League club sides NK Široki Brijeg and FK Sarajevo left Horde Zla supporter Vedran Puljić (from Sarajevo) dead from a gunshot wound.\n\nHooliganism has also been present in lower leagues. Riots have been common in Jablanica because fans of different clubs tend to meet and clash there.\n\nFootball hooliganism in Croatia has seen riots over inter-ethnic resentments and the politics that were reignited by the breakup of the Yugoslav federation in the 1990s. Two of the best known hooligan firms are Torcida (Hajduk Split) and Bad Blue Boys (Dinamo Zagreb). However, the groups are not just hooligan firms; they are more like the South American Torcida supporters groups and Ultras groups, with organised Tifos and so on.\n\nOn 13 May 1990 (before the breakup of Yugoslavia) Serbian club Red Star Belgrade was in Zagreb to play Dinamo Zagreb at the Maksimir Stadium. Red Star was accompanied by 3000 Delije, the organized supporters of the club. Before the match a number of small fights broke out. Police reinforcements soon arrived with armoured vehicles and water cannons, focusing to separate the fans. Dinamo's player Zvonimir Boban kicked one policeman, defending a Dinamo's fan beaten by the police. The fighting lasted for over an hour and hundreds of people were injured. Football hooliganism in Croatia is sometimes connected with racism and nationalism, although the racist remarks, if any appear, are pointed solely to opposing club's players, never to own squad.\n\nEthnic tension between Croats and Serbs has also led to fighting at a football match in Australia. On 13 March 2005, Sydney United (who have a large Croatian following, and were established by Croatian immigrants) and Bonnyrigg White Eagles (who have a large Serbian following and were established by Serbian immigrants) met in Sydney in the New South Wales Premier League. About 50 fans clashed, resulting in two police officers getting injured and five fans being arrested. Football NSW held an inquiry into the events. Both clubs denied that the fight was racially motivated or that there was any ethnic rivalry.\nP\nCroatian hooligans are also notorious for staging large illegal pyroshows at stadiums, where signal flares and smoke bombs are hurled onto the pitch causing postponement or cancellation of the match. A large incident occurred in 2003 in Rome during the Hajduk-Roma match when 900 Torcida fans threw signal flares at Roma fans resulting in various injuries and clashes with the police.\n\nAnother incident occurred in Genoa in 2007 when masked Torcida fans attacked the police with bricks, bottles and stones. Rioting continued in the stadium when Torcida fans threw chairs into the pitch and made nazi salutes. A riot occurred in 2006 in Osijek during the Osijek-Dinamo match. Several clashes between the Bad Blue Boys and Kohorta occurred before the match in which one Osijek fan received several stab wounds after which Osijek fans attacked the police and Dinamo fans with signal flares and stones.\n\nA large riot occurred in 2008 in Prague prior to the Sparta Prague-Dinamo match. Riots were ignited with the support of Sparta's ultrafans to Radovan Karadžić and Ratko Mladić. Approximately 500 Bad Blue Boys rioted in the city centre breaking shops and attacking police with chairs, signal flares and stones. Approximately 300 Bad Blue Boys were detained and 8 police officer were injured. Prior to the riots some Bad Blue Boys provoked local Romani people by giving nazi salutes.\n\nA large riot occurred in 2010 on 1.May at the Maksimir stadium when the Bad Blue Boys clashed with the police resulting in many arrests and one critically injured police officer. After the match violent clashes continued in which one Dinamo fan was shot by police officers. A large incident occurred in 2009 prior to the FC Timişoara-Dinamo match. 400 Bad Blue Boys rioted in the city centre and attacked local people. After the incident Romanian police detained a large number of Dinamo fans but the situation escalated again at the FC Timişoara stadium when 200 Bad Blue Boys tore down the pitch fence and attacked the police with chairs and bats resulting in several injured police officers. During the clash Dinamo fans fired signal missiles at FC Timişoara fans resulting in severe injuries.\nMany Croatian hooligan groups have also displayed nazi flags at matches and have neo-nazi skinheads in their ranks. Several incidents occurred when Bad Blue Boys and Torcida made racist chants towards opposing club's football players of African descent and hurled bananas in the pitch. In 2010, a Cameroon player was attacked in Koprivnica resulting in severe injuries.\n\nIn December 2010. 10–15 Tornado (Zadar) hooligans attacked a Partizan traveling coach with stones and bricks resulting in one injured person. In December 2010 30–40 Bad Blue Boys attacked a PAOK traveling coach with stones, bricks and flares setting the traveling coach on fire and inflicting injuries on several passengers.\n\nIn November 2014, during a Euro 2016 qualifying game in Milan, Italy hooligans from Croatia threw flares and fireworks onto the field and the game had to be briefly suspended.\n\nFootball hooliganism in Cyprus has been an issue for the past few decades and incidents are generally associated with the 5 major Cypriot clubs.\n\nAnorthosis Famagusta FC fans have been in involved in many incidents on most occasions involving their ultras group \"Mahites\". The two clubs in Limassol, AEL Limassol and Apollon Limassol have also been involved in numerous incidents, especially in recent years.\n\nSupporters of APOEL FC and AC Omonia Nicosia, the two most successful and most popular clubs in the country are notorious for hooliganism. The most violent cases of hooliganism in Cyprus usually involve the two teams. In May 2009 APOEL fans entered the Omonia stand and engaged in fistfights with Omonia fans eventually throwing one down the stand stairs. 6 months later in November fans of the two teams clashed close to the GSP Stadium when APOEL fans tried to hijack a futsal tournament organized by Omonia. Many were injured including an APOEL fan who was almost beaten to death.\n\nThe rivalry between Omonia and APOEL has its roots in politics. APOEL fans are in their majority right wing whereas Omonia fans are left wing. Communist symbols in the Omonia stand and right wing or even fascist symbols in the APOEL stand are not uncommon. The Limassol rivalry between Apollon and AEL Limassol is more a matter of what team dominates over the city. Hooliganism in the case of Anorthosis is also politically linked, especially when the club plays a left wing team such as Omonia. Other incidents between clubs of different cities that are of the same political orientation are associated with intercity rivalries, particularly when a club from Limassol faces a club from Nicosia.\n\nFootball hooliganism in France is often rooted in social conflict, including racial tension. In the 1990s, fans of Paris Saint-Germain (PSG) fought with supporters from Belgium, England, Germany, Italy and Scotland. There is a long-standing north/south rivalry between PSG (representing Paris and by extension northern France) and Olympique de Marseille (representing the South of France) which has encouraged authorities to be extremely mobilised during games between the two teams. Violent fights and post-game riots including car burning, and shop windows smashing have been a regular fixture of PSG-OM games. In 2000, the bitter rivalry turned particularly violent.\n\nOn 24 May 2001, fifty people were injured when fighting broke out at a match between PSG and Turkish club Galatasaray at the Parc des Princes stadium. PSG were initially given a record $571,000 fine, but it was reduced on appeal to $114,000. Galatasaray was initially fined $114,000 by UEFA, but it too was eventually reduced to $28,500. In May 2001, six PSG fans from the Supporters Club, were arrested and charged with assault, carrying weapons, throwing items on the pitch and racism. The six were alleged to have deliberately entered a part of the Parc des Princes stadium where French fans of Turkish origin were standing, in order to attack them. The six were banned from all football stadiums for the duration of their trial.\n\nOn 24 November 2006 a PSG fan was shot and killed by police and another seriously injured during fighting between PSG fans and the police. The violence occurred after PSG lost 4–2 to Israeli club Hapoel Tel Aviv at the Parc des Prince in a UEFA Cup match. PSG fans chased a fan of Hapoel Tel Aviv, shouting racist and anti-semitic slogans. A plainclothes police officer who tried to protect the Hapoel fan was attacked, and in the chaos, one fan was shot dead and another seriously injured. In response, the French Interior Minister, Nicolas Sarkozy held a meeting with the president of the French Football League, Frederic Thiriez to discuss racism and violence in football. The director-general of the French police, Michel Gaudin, insisted that measures against football hooliganism had reduced racist incidents to six that season from nineteen in the previous season. Gaudin also stated that 300 known hooligans could be banned from matches. The fan who was shot, was linked with the \"Boulogne Boys\", a group of fans who modelled themselves on British hooligans in the 1980s. The group's name comes from the Kop of Boulogne (KOB), one of the two main home fan stand at the Parc des Princes.\n\nThe KOB themselves held a silent memorial march attended by 300 and accused the police office of murdering the fan. They cited bias in the French press who had only given a \"one-sided\" account of the incident. French President Jacques Chirac condemned violence that led up to the shooting, stating that he was horrified by the reports of racism and anti-Semitism. French Prime Minister, Dominique de Villepin called for new, tougher measures to deal with football hooligans. Prosecutors opened an inquiry into the incident, to determine whether the officer involved should face criminal charges. Before a home match against Sochaux on 4 January 2006, two Arab youths were punched and kicked by white fans outside the entrance to the KOB. During the match racist insults were aimed at black players and a PSG player of Indian origin, Vikash Dhorasoo was told to \"go sell peanuts in the metro\". In the recent years, following UK's example, France's legislation has changed, including more and more banning of violent fans from stadiums. The threat of dissolution of fan groups has also tempered the outward rivalry and violence of a number of fans. Known violent fans under ban sentences are to report to the nearest Police station on nights of game, to prove they are not anywhere in proximity to the stadium.\n\nOn 11 June 2016, during a Euro 2016 match in Marseille between Russia and England, violent conflict broke out between the fans and left 35 injured. Both threw numerous items at each other and engaged in physical combat. Even a person who is recording the incident can be seen stomping another person's head. Because of this, both countries were given a disqualification warning soon later. The match ended with 1-1.\n\nOn 16 April 2017, during a match between Olympique Lyonnais and SC Bastia, supporters of SC Bastia invaded the pitch in an attempt to fight Lyonnais players. The match was then postponed.\n\nSome football hooliganism in Germany has been linked to neo-Nazism and far right groups. In June 1998, after a FIFA World Cup match in France between Germany and Yugoslavia a French policeman was beaten to the point of brain damage by German fans. Following the incident, German police contacted many of the known 2,000+ German hooligans to warn them they would be arrested if they travelled to upcoming matches in France. A German fan was arrested in 1998 and charged with attempted murder and in 1999, four more Germans were convicted in the attack In 2001, Markus Warnecke, the German fan who was accused of leading the attack, was found guilty and jailed for five years and banned from France for ten years, and from all sports facilities for five years.\nIn March 2005, German football fans fought with police and rival fans at a friendly match between Germany and Slovenia in Celje, Slovenia, damaging cars and shops, and shouting racist slogans. The German Football Association (DFB) apologised for the behaviour. As a result, 52 people were arrested; 40 Germans and 12 Slovenians. Following a 2–0 defeat to Slovakia in Bratislava, Slovakia, German hooligans fought with the local police, and six people were injured and two were taken into custody. The DFB again apologised for fans who chanted racist slogans.\n\nIn June 2006, Germany beat Poland in a World Cup Finals match in Dortmund, which led to violent clashes. The police detained over 300 people in Dortmund and German fans threw chairs, bottles and fireworks at the police. Of the 300 arrested, 120 were known hooligans. In October 2006, a task force was established to deal with violence and racism in German football stadiums. The worst incident took place at a Third division (North) match between the Hertha BSC Berlin B-team and Dynamo Dresden, in which 23 policemen were injured. In February 2007 in Saxony, all German lower league matches, from the fifth division downward were cancelled after about 800 fans attacked 300 police officers (injuring 39 of them) after a match between Lokomotive Leipzig and Erzgebirge Aue II.\nThere were minor disturbances after the Germany and England match during the 2010 FIFA World Cup. An English flag was burned down amongst a mob of German supporters in Duisburg-Hamborn in Germany.\n\nThe first incidents between Football fans in Greece were recorded in June 1930, after the match between Aris Thessaloniki and Panathinaikos F.C. at Thessaloniki. While Panathinaikos fans where arriving at the port of Piraeus from Thessaloniki, Olympiakos fans, who had not forgotten the big loss of their team (8–2) by Panathinaikos F.C. rioted with the green fans. \nThe word \"hooliganism\" was recorded at the early '60s where Greek students in the UK who had experienced the phenomenon of hooliganism there first taught the term to the journalists who were unable to explain why the fans were fighting each other and gave this situation a name.\nIn 1962, after Panathinaikos F.C. and P.A.O.K. F.C. match incidents, newspapers wrote for the first time that hooligans (Χούλιγκανς) vandalized Apostolos Nikolaidis Stadium.\nIt was on 19 November 1966 that a big flag, at the 13th gate of Apostolos Nikolaidis Stadium announced the arrival of a new group on the scene. Gate 13 would be the first organized group that over the years became a part of the club by affecting club decisions and by following the club on all possible occasions.\nP.A.O.K. F.C. fans made Gate 4 in 1978 and Olympiacos fans create the Gate 7 in 1981.\nIn 1982, between Aris FC – Paok FC match incidents, Aris Dimitriadis was stabbed and later died in Thessaloniki's hospital. On 26 October 1986, at the Alkazar stadium of Larissa Charalambos Blionas was killed by a flare pistol thrown by the Paok fans. One month later anastasios Zontos was stabbed to death in Omonoia square in the center of Athens before the match AEK Athens F.C. & P.A.O.K. F.C.. In January 1991, before the derby of Aek F.C. and Olympiakos F.C., George Panagiotou died in the incidents between hooligans outside Nea Filadelfia's stadium hit by flare pistol.\nOn 15 May 2005, in Thessaloniki derby Iraklis-Aris F.C., Aris' hooligans called \"Ierolohites\" invaded the pitch when the score was 2–1 for Iraklis. A football player Tasos Katsambis was injured during the clashes. The match was halted and Aris was punished with a 4-point deduction which led to their relegation to the Second Division.\nIn April 2007, all sports stadiums were closed down in Greece for two weeks following the death of a fan in a pre-arranged fight between hooligans in Athens on 29 March. The fight involved 500 fans of rival Super League Greece clubs Panathinaikos, which is based in Athens, and Olympiacos, which is based in nearby Piraeus. The Greek government immediately suspended all team sports in Greece and severed the ties between teams and their supporters' organizations. A Third Division match between Panetolikos and Ilioupoli was stopped for thirty minutes when players and fans clashed following a Panetolikos disallowed goal. Two players and a coach were sent to the hospital.\n\nOn 18 April, rival fans clashed with each other and riot police in Ioannina during and after a Greek Cup semi-final match between local rivals PAS Giannena and Larissa. There was trouble during the game in which Larissa won 2–0. Fans set fire to rubbish bins and smashed shop windows, while police tried to disperse them by firing tear gas.\n\nOn 10 October 2009, a group of about 30 hooligans disrupted an \"Under 17\" match between local rivals PAOK and Aris Thessaloniki. Among the injured were a group of Aris Thessaloniki players and their coach, a veteran PAOK player and another official. On 7 October 2011, a group of Greek supporters firebombed the away section of a Euro 2012 qualifying match against Croatia in Athens.\nOn 18 March 2012, during the match for the Super League Greek Championship in Athens Olympic Stadium between Panathinaikos and Olympiakos, home team Panathinaikos's fans who were inside the stadium attacked police forces with Molotov bombs, causing extended damages to the stadium, while police forces were unable to keep peace.\n\nOn 5 January 2014, in Aigaleo, a suburb in Athens, the local team Aigaleo FC was hosting AEK Athens, a Third Division match. Before the match clashes broke up between AEK and Aigaleo fans. Indeed, the clashes resulted in the arrest of a security guard of the stadium who was accused of participating in the clashes among Aigaleo hooligans and also accused of committing attempted murder against an AEK fan.\n\nOn 15 September 2014, in Nea Alikarnassos, the team Herodotus was hosting Ethnikos Piraeus , a Third Division match. On 75' minute of the game, a clash between the supporters of the two clubs forced the referee to stop the match. During the clash, a 45-year-old supporter of Ethnikos Piraeus suffered a severe head injury and died two weeks later.\n\nLocal derbies between Budapest teams Ferencvárosi Torna Club (based in Ferencváros) and Újpest FC (based in Újpest) are frequently occasions for violence between supporters. Other clubs whose supporters are reportedly involved in hooliganism include Debreceni VSC (Debrecen), Diósgyőri VTK (Miskolc), Nyíregyháza Spartacus FC (Nyíregyháza), Zalaegerszegi TE (Zalaegerszeg), Haladás VSE (Szombathely) and Videoton FC (Székesfehérvár)\n\nThe term \"ultrà\" or \"ultras\" is used to describe hooligans in Italy.\n\nIn February 2001, A.S. Roma fans fought with police and Liverpool F.C. fans, and five English supporters were stabbed.\n\nAfter a weekend of violence in January 2007, the president of the Italian Football Federation (FIGC) threatened to halt all league football. An official of amateur club Sammartinese died when he was caught up in a fight between players and fans in Luzzi, among numerous incidents of disorder in Florence, Bergamo and elsewhere. In February 2007 the Italian Football Federation (FIGC) suspended all football matches after Police Officer Filippo Raciti was killed at the match between Catania and Palermo when he was struck on his liver by a piece of \nlavatory of the stadium.\n\nIn a Euro 2016 qualifying match in Podgorica on 27 March 2015, a few seconds in, a hooligan threw a flare at Russia goalkeeper Igor Akinfeev injuring him. The match was then temporarily suspended. Later fighting between the teams and more hooliganism rendered the game abandoned.\n\nThe earliest recorded case of hooliganism in the Netherlands occurred when Rotterdam club Feyenoord and English club Tottenham Hotspur met at the 1974 UEFA Cup Final, where Tottenham hooligans destroyed portions of the Feyenoord stadium tribunes. It was the first time the Netherlands encountered such destructive hooliganism. Other Dutch clubs associated with hooliganism include PSV Eindhoven, Ajax, FC Utrecht, FC Groningen, Twente Enschede and ADO Den Haag.\n\nThe most violent rivalry is between Ajax and Feyenoord. A particularly serious incident was the so-called \"Battle of Beverwijk\" on 23 March 1997, in which several people were seriously injured and one killed. The 2002–03 season was marked by similar incidents, and also by fighting between fans of Ajax and FC Utrecht.\nOther serious incidents include:\n\nOne of the biggest riots occurred at a World Cup qualifying match between Poland and England on 29 May 1993 in Chorzów.\n\nArranged football hooligan fights in Poland are known as \"ustawki\"; they became common in Poland since the late 90s. On 30 March 2003, Polish police arrested 120 people after rival football supporters fought during a match between Śląsk Wrocław and Arka Gdynia. During the riot, hooligans pelted police officers with stones and fought a running battle with knives and axes. One victim was seriously injured and later died in hospital.\n\nDuring the 1998–99 UEFA Cup, a knife was thrown at Italian footballer Dino Baggio, from Parma F.C. by Polish supporters (allegedly Wisła Kraków fans), injuring his head. Supporters of Legia Warszawa also attracted negative attention after in Lithuania during the match against Vetra Vilnius on 10 July 2007.\n\nThe most notable hooligan incidents happened in Kraków where supporters of the Wisła Kraków and KS Cracovia teams have a rivalry that reportedly extended to killings of opposing fans.\n\nCountry-wide riots involving football fans were seen in 1998 in Słupsk and 2015 in Knurów, both incidents sparked by a killing of a fan by the police.\n\nFootball Hooliganism was never an issue in Ireland up until the early 2000s and involved many pre match fights began to spawn in areas such as County Louth, Dublin and Derry. The behaviour of fans in these areas involved fights, racist chants and banners and many different pyrotechnic tools such as flares, smoke bombs and strobes. Often enough the away team and League of Ireland matches would be ganged up on by the home teams and attacked.\nFootball hooliganism has become prevalent in Russia since the beginning of the 2000s, Hooligans are associated with teams such as FC Spartak Moscow (Gladiators, Shkola, Union), FC Lokomotiv Moscow (Red-Green's, Vikings, BHZ, Trains Team), PFC CSKA Moscow (RBW, Gallant Steeds, Yaroslavka, Einfach Jugend), FC Dynamo Moscow (Capitals, 9-ka), FC Torpedo Moscow (Tubes, TroubleMakers) – all from Moscow – and FC Zenit Saint Petersburg (Music Hall, Coalition, Snakes Firm) from Saint Petersburg. Russian hooligans often show an underlying resentment towards Russia's perceived political rivals. At the UEFA Euro 2016 tournament, 50 Russian fans were deported and the international team fined €150,000 following co-ordinated violent attacks. \nThe most prominent groups of hooligans are associated with Belgrade and Serbia's two main clubs, Red Star Belgrade and Partizan Belgrade. They are known as the \"Delije\" (\"Heroes\") and \"Grobari\" (\"Gravediggers\"), respectively. FK Rad is a less-successful Belgrade club, whose associated hooligans, known locally as \"United Force\", have notoriously been involved in many violent incidents. On 2 December 2007, a plainclothes police officer was seriously injured when he was attacked during a Serbian Superliga match between Red Star Belgrade and Hajduk Kula. On 14 April 2008 a football fan was killed near Novi Sad after clashes between FK Partizan's Grobari and fans of FK Vojvodina. That same week, after a Red Star Belgrade-Partizan cup match, three people were injured and a bus destroyed by hooligans.\n\nOn 19 September 2008 a Serbian football hooligan was sentenced to ten years in jail for an attack against a police officer at a Red Star Belgrade–Hajduk Kula game. On 12 October 2010 Serbia's Euro 2012 Qualifying clash with Italy was abandoned after only 6 minutes after several Serbian fans threw flares and fireworks onto the pitch and caused severe trouble in and out of the ground. Partizan Belgrade were disqualified from the UEFA Cup, after crowd trouble in Mostar, Bosnia & Herzegovina. Partizan fans threw flares and stones and fought with supporters of Zrinjski Mostar and police. Fourteen Partizan fans were convicted for the murder of Toulouse FC fan Brice Taton in Belgrade. They attacked him and other fans with baseball bats and flares while wearing surgical masks. The hooligans received up to 35 years in prison.\n\nFootball hooliganism in Spain arises from three main sources. The first is racism, as some black players have been victims of ethnic slurs. Samuel Eto'o, a former FC Barcelona player from Cameroon, has denounced the problem.\n\nThe second source is the strong rivalry between Real Madrid and Barcelona. After transferring from Barcelona to Real Madrid, Luís Figo's appearance in Barcelona's Nou Camp Stadium triggered a strong reaction. The crowd threw bottles, mobile phones and other things (including a pig's head). Although nobody was injured the match was followed by a large discussion on fan violence in the Spanish Primera División.\n\nHooliganism is also rooted in deep political divisions arising from the General Franco fascist regime days (some Real Madrid, Atlético Madrid, Espanyol, Real Betis Balompie or Valencia CF ultras are linked to franquista groups), the communist ones, (such as Deportivo La Coruña, Athletic Club Bilbao, Sevilla FC, Celta de Vigo, Rayo Vallecano) and the independentist movements in Catalonia (like FC Barcelona), Galicia and the Basque region. In Spain, organized hooligan groups are popularly called \"grupos ultra\". Three notorious ones are the Boixos Nois, the Frente Atlético and the Ultras Sur, supporter groups of FC Barcelona, Atlético Madrid and Real Madrid respectively.\n\nIn 1991, Frederiq Roiquier, a French supporter of Espanyol de Barcelona was killed by FC Barcelona hooligans which mistook him for an Espanyol hooligan. In 1992 a 13-year-old child died in Espanyol stadium before a flare impact in his thorax. In 1998, Aitor Zabaleta, a supporter of Real Sociedad was killed by an Atlético Madrid hooligan who was linked to a neo-Nazi group (Bastión), just before a match between these two teams. In 2003, a supporter of Deportivo La Coruña was killed in riots by Deportivo hooligans, when he tried to protect a supporter of the opposing team, SD Compostela. Since then, authorities have made attempts to bring hooliganism more under control. In 2007, there were acts of hooliganism before a match between Atlético Madrid and Real Madrid, with several cars being destroyed and policemen injured by flares and bottles which were thrown at them.\n\nMany black foreign players have been racially abused, such as at a 2004 friendly match between Spain and England, in which black England players such as Shaun Wright-Phillips and Ashley Cole endured monkey chants from Spain supporters. There also have been local disputes between rival teams, for example between Cádiz Club de Fútbol and Xerez CD, Real Betis Balompie and Sevilla FC or Deportivo de La Coruña and Celta de Vigo.\n\nHooligan violence in Spain decreased since the late '90s due to an alcohol ban in sporting events as well as hooligan laws which attempt fines up to 600,000 euros and bans of two years without access to stadiums.\n\nSince 2003 FC Barcelona hooligans, the Boixos Nois are not allowed to enter in Camp Nou. The hardcore of Barcelona hooligans subgroups were involved in police operations against organized crime. In 2008, after a hooligan incident versus Espanyol, FC Barcelona very publicly took a stand on violence, saying it hoped to stamp out violence for good. In 2007 Atlético Madrid hooligans clashed with Aberdeen FC hooligans prior to a UEFA Cup match.In 2009 and 2010 Atlético Madrid hooligans also clashed with FC Porto and Sporting Clube de Portugal in Portugal during UEFA Cup games.\nIn 2012 a Rayo Vallecano Hooligan was arrested during riots in 14-November general strike and accused of terrorism.\n\nIn 2014, debate about eradicating Spanish hooligans arose after Frente Atlético members murdered a Riazor Blues member, Deportivo La Coruña radicals; and after members of the Boixos Nois stabbed two PSG supporters in Barcelona.\n\nIn 2016, Football-related violence came once again to the public debate after a Fight between Sevilla FC and Juventus FC Supporters that occurred the day before their UEFA Champions League group stage match. 2 Juventus supporters were stabbed (one of them was seriously injured but survived after being hospitalized) and a Sevilla supporter was hospitalized with head wounds caused by a glass bottle.\n\nHooliganism began in Sweden at the turn of the 20th century as fans of AIK, Hammarby and Djurgården have been reported fighting after derbies in Stockholm. Modern hooliganism began in 1970 when fans of IFK Göteborg invaded the pitch, destroyed the goalposts and fought the police at the end of a match that relegated Göteborg from the Allsvenskan, although Hooliganism in Sweden became a growing problem in the 1980s, but pitch invasions and violence at football grounds decreased in the late 1990s; when hooligan firms started pre-arranging their fights away from the grounds and the regular supporters. Seven clubs that have large organised hooligans firms are AIK (Firman Boys), IFK Göteborg (Wisemen) Djurgårdens IF (DFG) Hammarby IF (KGB) Malmö FF (True Rockers) GAIS (Gärningsmännen) and Helsingborgs IF (Frontline). But several other football, bandy and ice hockey clubs have active hooligan followings. In November 2002, 12 members of the Wisemen stood trial for inflicting life-threatening injuries on a Hammarby fan in 2001.\n\nIn August 2002, Tony Deogan, a member of the Wisemen, was killed after a pre-arranged fight against Firman Boys. A second fatality occurred in March 2014, when a 43-year-old Djurgården supporter was killed in Helsingborg in an assault on his way to Djurgården's opening match in the 2014 Allsvenskan against Helsingborg. After the man's death became known, Djurgården supporters invaded the pitch after 42 minutes of play, prompting officials to abandon the match.\n\nIn Switzerland, hooligan incidents are rare due to the fact that the stadiums are small and teams are little.\n\nOne incident, dubbed the 2006 Basel Hooligan Incident, 13 May 2006, occurred on the last day of the 2005–06 season, when FC Zürich defeated FC Basel at St. Jakob Park to win the Swiss championship with a last-minute goal. After the final whistle, angry Basel hooligans stormed the field and attacked Zürich players. The Zürich team were forced to celebrate in the upper deck of the stands while the fighting continued. There was similar fighting in the streets that night.\n\nAccording to the \"Turkish Daily News\", hooligan groups are well organised, have their own \"leaders\", and often consist of organised street fighters. These groups have a \"racon\" (code of conduct), which states that the intention must be to injure rather than kill and that a stab must be made below the waist. Other hooligans have fired firearms into the air to celebrate their team's victory, which has been known to accidentally kill innocent people watching the celebrations on their balconies.\n\nTrouble has arisen during matches between Istanbul rivals Galatasaray and Fenerbahçe. However, the Turkish Football Federation has tightened security to try and contain the hooliganism. During the 2005 Turkish cup final between Galatasaray and Fenerbahçe, 8,000 police, stewards and officials were employed to prevent violence. In 2006, the Turkish Football Federation introduced new measures to combat the threat of hooliganism and have made new regulations that allow the Professional Football Disciplinary Board to fine clubs up to YTL 250,000 for their fans behavior. Repeat offenders could be fined up to YTL 500,000. Despite reports from the Turkish Football Federation, the Turkish police believe that football hooliganism is not a major threat and are \"isolated incidents\".\n\nBefore Galatasaray's semi-final UEFA Cup match with Leeds United in 2000, two Leeds fans, Christopher Loftus and Kevin Speight, were stabbed to death in Istanbul following street fights between Turkish and British hooligans. UEFA allowed the game to proceed and Galatasaray won 2–0. Leeds complained because home fans jeered while a message of condolence was read for the victims. Galatasaray's players refused to wear black arm bands. The Leeds chairman at the time, Peter Ridsdale, accused Galatasaray of \"showing a lack of respect\". He also revealed that his teams' players had received death threats before the match.\n\nAli Ümit Demir was arrested and sentenced to 15 years imprisonment for the stabbing, but the sentence was reduced to 5 years on the basis of heavy provocation, while five others were given lesser sentences of under four months. The families of those accused of attacking with knives are reported to have defended their actions and approved of their children punishing the \"rude British people\". Galatasaray fans were banned from traveling to the return match to try and avoid further clashes between fans, although there were reports of attacks by Leeds fans on Turkish television crews and the police. However the Assistant Chief Constable in charge of policing the game believed that the number of arrests was \"no worse than a normal high category game\". Hakan Şükür was hit with projectiles from Leeds United supporters and the Galatasaray team bus was stoned after driving through an underpass. The game saw Emre Belözoğlu and Harry Kewell sent off and Galatasaray sealed their way to the final with a 2–2 score.\n\nViolence also occurred between Arsenal fans (mainly from The Herd) and Galatasaray fans before the 2000 UEFA Cup final in Copenhagen in which a Galatasaray fan, an Arsenal fan and a Dane were said to have been stabbed. Galatasaray later won the match after a penalty shoot-out.\n\nOn 24 May 2001, 50 people were injured when fighting broke out at a match between French club PSG and Galatasaray at the Parc des Princes stadium.[16][17]PSG were initially given a record $571,000 fine, but it was reduced on appeal to $114,000. Galatasaray was initially fined $114,000 by UEFA, but it too was eventually reduced to $28,500.[18] In May 2001, six PSG fans from the Supporters Club, were arrested and charged with assault, carrying weapons, throwing items on the pitch and racism. The six were alleged to have deliberately entered a part of the Parc des Princes stadium where French fans of Turkish origin were standing, in order to attack them. The six were banned from all football stadiums for the duration of their trial.\n\nOn 3 June 2011, after the Belgium vs. Turkey match, several riots occurred in the city center of Ghent after a 1–1 draw. 30 people were injured. Hooliganism in Turkey is also a problem in Ankara, İzmir, Eskişehir, Bursa, Samsun and Adana . During the 2003–2004 season, a Second League Category A, match between Karşıyaka and Göztepe on 8 February 2004, involved rival Karşıyaka and Göztepe supporters clashing and the match was subsequently stopped for 33 minutes. This was due to Karşıyaka leading 5–2 after coming back from a 2–0 deficit. After the match, Göztepe fans clashed with the police, seven police officers were wounded and fifteen Göztepe fans were arrested.\n\nBursaspor fans clashed with policemen at a match against Samsunspor match in the Süper Lig in Adapazarı at the end of the 2003–04 season. The match was played in Adapazarı due to events at a previous match between Bursaspor and Çaykur Rizespor. Bursaspor were playing to avoid relegation. Bursaspor won 1–0 the but were relegated to Category A after rivals won. After the match, Bursaspor fans ripped out and threw seats at the Sakarya Atatürk Stadium They also fought with craftsmen of Gölcük during their journey to Adapazarı. The Bursaspor-Diyarbakırspor game in March 2010 was suspended in the 17th minute after Diyarbakırspor supporters threw objects on the field. One object struck and knocked down an assistant referee.\n\nOn 7 May 2011, Bursaspor supporters clashed with the police ahead of the team's match with rival Beşiktaş. 25 police officers and 9 fans were injured in the violence. A Trabzonspor fan pointed a gun to the bus which carried the players of Fenerbahçe. During the Fenerbahçe-Galatasaray game at the end of 2011–2012 season Fenerbahçe fans clashed with the police the damage costed about 2 million dollars. Buses were stoned, Police cars set on fire and trees were set on fire by Fenerbahçe fans.This was described as a \"warzone\".\n\nThe 1967 Kayseri Atatürk Stadium Disaster was the worst hooliganism event that has ever happened in Turkey. It resulted in 40 deaths and some 600 were injured. The violence started following provocation of the Kayserispor fans in the half time, whose team went to leading by a goal scored in the first half.Supporters of the two teams threw rocks to each other.Some of the hooligans were also armed with bats and knives.The fleeing crowd caused a stampede in front of the stand exits.The events in the stadium were followed by vandalism in Kayseri and many-days lasting riots in Sivas. Hooliganism is also an issue in other sports like Basketball and Volleyball in Turkey.\n\nOn 13 May 2013, a Fenerbahce fan was stabbed to death after the Istanbul derby. The Fenerbahce fan was on his way back home after the match between Fenerbahçe and Galatasaray, when he was attacked by a group of Galatasaray fans at a bus stop, and died in hospital later.\n\nIn 2015, confectioners Ülker–previously \"one of Turkish football's biggest sponsors\"–ceased their support, reportedly due to \"low crowds, violence and poor atmosphere at matches\".\n\nThere are records of football hooliganism in the UK from the 1880s, and from no later than the 1960s the UK had a worldwide reputation for it – the phenomenon was often dubbed the \"English Disease\".\n\nFrom the 1970s, many organised hooligan firms sprang up, with most Football League clubs having at least one known organised hooligan element. Hooliganism was often as its worst when local rivals played each other. Supporters of teams including Arsenal, Chelsea, Leeds United, Millwall, Tottenham Hotspur, Portsmouth, West Ham United, Leicester City and \nBristol City were among those most frequently linked to hooliganism.\n\nRacism became a major factor in hooliganism around the same time, as black players became a regular feature in English league teams from the 1970s. Black players were frequently targeted with monkey chants, and had bananas thrown at them. Members of far-right groups including the National Front also sprayed racist slogans and distributed racist literature at matches.\n\nSectarian violence has long been a regular factor of crowd violence, as well as offensive chanting, at matches in Scotland between Celtic and Rangers.\n\nAs a result of the Heysel Stadium disaster at Brussels, Belgium, in 1985, where Liverpool FC fans rioting led to the death of 39 Juventus fans, English clubs were banned from all European competitions until 1990, with Liverpool (the English team present) banned for an additional year. According to Manchester United hooligan Colin Blaney in his autobiography 'The Undesirables', many of the football hooligan gangs in the UK used hooliganism as a cover for acquisitive forms of crime, specifically theft and burglary. This has also been confirmed in numerous other articles on the subject. In the 1980s and well into the 1990s the UK government led a major crackdown on football-related violence. While football hooliganism has been a growing concern in some other European countries in recent years, British football fans now tend to have a better reputation abroad. Although reports of British football hooliganism still surface, the instances now tend to occur at pre-arranged locations including pubs rather than at the matches themselves.\n\nEnglish clubs who have made the headlines for the worst and most frequent cases of hooliganism include Birmingham City (whose multi racial hooligan element gained the nickname \"Zulus\" from fans of rival teams in the 1970s when football hooligans were almost always white British), Chelsea (whose then chairman Ken Bates installed an electric fence at the club's stadium in the mid 1980s to combat hooligans, but was refused permission to switch it on during matches), Leeds United (who were banned from European competitions following a riot after the 1975 European Cup final against Bayern München), Liverpool (14 of whose fans were convicted after a riot at the 1985 European Cup final resulted in the deaths of 39 spectators at Heysel Stadium in Belgium when a stadium wall collapsed, leading to English clubs being banned from European competitions for 5 years), Manchester United (who were booted out of the European Cup Winner's Cup in 1977 after their fans rioted at a game in France, although they were reinstated to the competition on appeal), Millwall (whose most notorious hooliganism incident was in 1985 when their fans rioted in an FA Cup tie at Luton), Tottenham Hotspur who gained notoriety for the 1974 UEFA Cup Final disturbances and again in Rotterdam in 1983 (who had a section of fans banned from all football grounds in England in 2008 for their racial and homophobic abuse of former player Sol Campbell) and Wolves (who had dozens of fans convicted of incidents in the late 1980s involving the Subway Army hooligan firm at matches against teams including Cardiff City and Scarborough when they were in the Fourth Division).\n\nFootball hooliganism movement in Ukraine started in the 1980s. The first big fight (more than 800 people) involving football hooligans was registered in September 1987 between Dynamo Kyiv and Spartak Moscow fans in the center of Kiev. The 1990s passed in relative silence, as there were no big fights between hooligans. The origin of the football hooligan movement in Ukraine started in the mid-90s. On September 5, 1998 an important game between Ukraine and Russia's national football teams was played. Ukrainian hooligans began to unite in \"National crews\" to resist Russian fans. However, the mass union did not take place due to police intervention and were mainly composed of Ukrainian fans from Kiev and Dnipropetrovsk. In March 2001, several crews united and attacked 80 Belarusian fans after match between Ukraine and Belarus national football teams. At that exact time hooligans and ultras were separated, due to changes of views on supporting movement. One part decided to dedicate all time at the tribune to create a choreo in Italian style, and the others decided to remain faithful to English style with fighting and the same wear style. 15 April 2002 about 50 right Dynamo fans attacked Jewish quarter in Kiev. First, they stoned small shop and after that throw stoned in synagogue and beat up the head of synagogue and other believers.\n\nSince 2005 clashes between hooligans occurred mostly outside the city because of the excessive attention of police. During the Euro 2012 several leaders of football hooligans came under government pressure. During the Ukrainian revolution 2014 was announced about unification of all fans and imposed a ban on any provocation as burning attributes, fighting, offensive songs. During the war in eastern Ukraine many hooligans and ultras went to the defense of the state.\n\nBecause of the ban internal conflicts and successes in the international stage Ukrainian hooligans pay attention to foreign fans. After the match between FC Dnipro and Saint Etienne in Kiev several French fans were hospitalized with the stabbing. August 20, 2015 there was a big fight in Hydropark between Legia and Dynamo&Zorya hools. The biggest clash since unification occurred in Kiev, 6 December 2016 between Dynamo and Besiktas hooligans. For Turks it was very important match, because win of Turkey team mean's qualification to the European top stage. Few days before to Kiev came about 7,000 fans from Istanbul. Two days before match on the streets in different parts of Ukrainian capital witnessed the outbreak of numerous conflicts.\n\nTypically the biggest confrontation involving Ukrainian hooligans occurring in domestic competitions. The most famous confrontation: Klasychne derby, South derby and South-West derby between FC Karpaty Lviv and Shakhtar Donetsk. There are local derbys as: Donetsk derby or Kyiv derby.\n\nThe first murder related with Argentine football occurred on 21 September 1922 in Rosario, during the second half of a match between Tiro Federal Argentino (in its stadium) and Newell's Old Boys for the Copa Estímulo of the local first division, in a discussion between two fans. Enrique Battcock, a railroad worker and supporter of the home club (also former footballer and former member of the club's directing) was interpellated for Francisco Campá (Newell's Old Boys' supporter and member of the club's directing) for his behaviour, which carried a discussion that ended when Battcock hit in the face to Cambá, who retired from the stadium, returned after a little while, extracted a gun and shot him, causing Battcock's death.\n\nOn 2 November 1924 in Montevideo (Uruguay), occurred another murder where an Argentina fan was involved. After the final match of the South American Championship of this year between Uruguay and Argentina (that Uruguay won), in the Colón Hotel (where the Argentine national football team was staying) broke out a fight among Uruguay supporters and Argentine fans and footballers, where José Lázaro Rodríguez (a recognized Argentine supporter of Boca Juniors and the national team) shot to Pedro Demby, an Uruguayan fan that died consequently.\n\nOn 14 May 1939 at the stadium of Lanús (in the city of Lanús, in the Greater Buenos Aires), in a match of the minor divisions of the local team and Boca Juniors (previous to the match of the main teams of both clubs), after a foul committed by a player of Lanús, both teams began to fight. Seeing this, Boca Juniors fans wanted to tear down the fence and invade the pitch, prompting the police to fire shots to disperse them. But a police officer named Luis Estrella shot into the stands, killing two spectators: Luis López and Oscar Munitoli (a 9-year old).\n\nBut this violence was not only among fans, footballers or the police, but also against the referees. On 27 October 1946, during a match between Newell's Old Boys and San Lorenzo de Almagro at Newell's Old Boys stadium (in the city of Rosario), local fans tried to strangle the referee Osvaldo Cossio. The match was tied on two goals when Cossio annulled a goal of the premises, and the third goal of San Lorenzo de Almagro in the next play worsened the situation. 89 minutes into the game, several Newell's Old Boys fans entered the pitch, hit the umpire and tried to hang him with his own belt.\n\nAlthough in Argentine football violence was already present from the beginning (late 19th century), the organized groups (barras bravas) appeared in the 1950s (barras bravas of Independiente, San Lorenzo de Almagro, Lanús, Rosario Central, Vélez Sarsfield, Racing, etc.) and 1960s (barras bravas of Belgrano, Boca Juniors, River Plate, etc.), and continued to grow in the coming decades. With the time, every big and small football club in Argentina started to have its own corresponding barra brava, and all are violent or prepared for violence. In Argentina there are the most dangerous organized supporter groups in the world, and the most powerful of them are the barras bravas of Independiente (La Barra Del Rojo), Boca Juniors and Newell's Old Boys.\n\nBut this phenomenon suffered a major transformation in the late 1950s. The journalist Amílcar Romero sets 1958 as the beginning of the current barras bravas (although some had already existed since some years), with the random murder by the police of Mario Alberto Linker (a Boca Juniors supporter -not identified as such- that circumstantially was watching a match between Vélez Sársfield and River Plate at the José Amalfitani stadium), that was located in the grandstand of River Plate fans when some of them started a fight and the police burst throwing tear gas grenades, one of which hit to Linker in the chest, causing his death. Because of this murder in October 1958, the society notes the existence of this organized groups (the barras bravas). The so-called \"industrialization of football\" was the kickoff for this organization, because needed to control all aspects involved in the game. Before the emergence of these groups, when a team played as a visitor, was pressured by rival fans. This prompted the organization of the barras bravas in response to that pressure:\n\nIn this way, each club began having his barra brava, which was funded by the leaders of the institution. These groups were given their tickets and paid trips to the stadium, adding later other forms of financing. But the access to these \"benefits\" by the barra brava depended of the hierarchy inside her. For the barra brava to be prestigious, it had to be violent, so they began to increase the number of dead.\n\nAfter the death of Linker, in Argentine football began a phase marked by \"habituation\" to the violence of the barras bravas, and an increase in the number of deaths. According to Amílcar Romero, between 1958 and 1985, 103 deaths related to football violence took place in Argentina, that is, an average of one every three months. However, it also clarifies that the origin of such deaths is not always confrontation in the stadium, and range from the premeditated clash between barras bravas outside the sporting venues, police repression against disorder, infighting in a barra brava or \"accidents\", its analysis tends to show some kind of negligence or violation of safety standards.\n\nIn 1964 more than 300 football fans died and another 500 were injured in Lima (Peru) in a riot during an Olympic qualifying match between Argentina and Perú on 24 May. On 11 April 1967 in Argentina, before a match between Huracán and Racing de Avellaneda, a Racing fan of 15 years died murdered by the Huracán barra brava at the Tomás Adolfo Ducó stadium. Over 70 Boca Juniors fans died in 1968 when crowds attending a Superclásico in Buenos Aires stampeded after youths threw burning paper onto the terraces and the exit (Puerta 12) was locked.\n\nFrom the 1980s and onwards, the nuclei of the biggest barras bravas began to attend the matches of the Argentina national football team in the FIFA World Cups. That caused fights against supporters of other countries (sometimes were hooligans or ultras) and between the Argentine barras bravas themselves. Also, in the 1980s and the 1990s were recorded the highest levels of violence in the history of the Argentine football, and there was a new phenomenon: the internal fragmentation of the barras bravas. It was produced by the emergence of sub-groups with their own names inside the barras bravas. Sometimes these sub-groups fought among themselves to have the power within the barra brava to which they belonged.\n\nAn example of the violence of this years was the Roberto Basile's death. Before the start of a match between Boca Juniors and Racing in 1983 in the \"Bombonera\" stadium, this Racing supporter died after being pierced in the neck by a flare thrown from the Boca Juniors stand.\n\nIn 1997 a member of La Guardia Imperial (barra brava of Racing de Avellaneda) was murdered by an Independiente supporter.\n\nIn 2001, other supporter of Racing was killed, and the barra brava of Independiente was the main suspect. Independiente and Racing (both from the city of Avellaneda, in the Greater Buenos Aires) have a huge rivalry (they form the Avellaneda Derby), the second most important in Argentina but maybe the fiercest (noteworthy that their stadiums are apart only for about 300 meters).\n\nThe next year, one fan was killed and 12 people injured, including six police officers when fans of Racing Club de Avellaneda and Club Atlético Independiente clashed in February 2002.\n\nAn Independiente fan was shot dead, and another fan was shot in the back and hospitalized when about 400 rival fans fought outside Racing Clubs Estadio Juan Domingo Perón in Avellaneda before the match. Between 70 and 80 people were arrested as a result. The match started late when Independiente fans threw a smoke bomb at Racing Club goalkeeper, Gustavo Campagnuolo. That same weekend, 30 people were arrested and 10 police officers injured when fighting broke out at a match between Estudiantes de La Plata and Club de Gimnasia y Esgrima La Plata in La Plata.\n\nA 2002 investigation into football hooliganism in Argentina stated that football violence had become a national crisis, with about 40 people murdered at football matches in the preceding ten years. In the 2002 season, there had been five deaths and dozens of knife and shotgun casualties. At one point the season was suspended and there was widespread social disorder in the country. The first death in 2002 was at a match between fierce rivals Boca Juniors and River Plate. The match was abandoned and one Boca Juniors fan was shot dead. Boca Juniors, one of the largest clubs in Argentina, may have the largest barra brava element in the country (it is similar to the barras bravas of Independiente and River Plate), with their self-styled leader, Rafael Di Zeo, claiming in 2002 that they had over 2000 members (however there are doubts about the reliability of this information).\nIn 2004, while driving up to Rosario to watch their side play Rosario Central, Los Borrachos del Tablón (River's Barra Bravas) confronted a bus of Newell's firm (one of the big rival firms) on Highway 9, in a battle that killed two Newell's fans. Up to this day, some members of Los Borrachos still face charges because of the deaths.\n\nIn 2005 a footballer, Carlos Azcurra, was shot and seriously wounded by a police officer, when rival fans rioted during a Primera B Nacional match between local Mendoza rivals (but not a derby) San Martín de Mendoza and Godoy Cruz Antonio Tomba.\n\nDuring the 2006 FIFA World Cup in Germany, there was a confrontation between 6 members of the barra brava of Independiente and 16 members of the barras bravas of Boca Juniors and Defensa y Justicia (both were together) in the Czech Republic (the country where the three barras bravas were housed). As a result of the fight, a supporter of Boca Juniors had to be hospitalized.\n\nIn 2007, during the match of the promotion/relegation playoff of the 2006–2007 season between Nueva Chicago and Tigre (in the Nueva Chicago's stadium), broke out a fight between the barras bravas of both teams because, when a penalty was sanctionaty for Tigre (who was winning the match 2–1, a result that relegated to Nueva Chicago to the Second division) in the 92nd minute, the barra brava of Nueva Chicago invaded the pitch and ran on direction to the stand occupied by the supporters of Tigre to attack them. After this, were serious riots near the stadium (not only caused by the barras bravas, but also by ordinary people), and as a result of it, a fan of Tigre died.\n\nOn 19 March 2010 in a bar of Rosario, the ex leader of the Newell's Old Boys barra brava (Roberto \"Pimpi\" Camino) was shot and later died in a hospital of that city. Camino and his sub-group led the barra brava from 2002 to 2009, when they were expelled from it due to their defeat at the hands of another sub-group, which currently dominates La Hinchada Más Popular (name of the Newell's Old Boys barra brava). Some members of the now main sub-group are the suspects of the murder, and the bar's owners are suspected of helping them.\n\nIn the early morning of 4 July 2010 (the next day of the match between Argentina and Germany for quarter-finals of the 2010 FIFA World Cup) in Cape Town, South Africa, there was a fight between some integrants of the barras bravas of Independiente and Boca Juniors. During the brawl, one member of the Boca Juniors barra brava lost consciousness after being brutally beating by the Independiente fanatics. He was admitted to a hospital in the city and died there on 5 July.\n\nFrom 1924 to 2010 there were 245 deaths (250 with the Argentine recently died in South Africa) related to Argentine football (if the 300 dead in Perú in 1964 aren't counted).\n\nOn 14 May 2015, in a game between River Plate and Boca Juniors at La Bombonera, hooligans sprayed a substance which irritated River Plate players' eyes, and the game was suspended.\n\nFans in Brazil join in organized groups known as torcidas organizadas (\"organized supporters\") often considered criminal organizations that differ in many aspects from European hooligans. They act as the main supporters of each club and often sell products and even tickets. They have up to 60,000 members and are often involved in criminal activities other than fights such as drug dealing and threats to players. These fans establish alliances with other \"torcidas organizadas\" as they are called such as the alliance between Torcida Mancha Azul (Avaí Futebol Clube), Força Jovem Vasco (CR Vasco da Gama), Galoucura (Atlético Mineiro) and Mancha Verde (SE Palmeiras), the alliance between Torcida Independente (São Paulo F.C.), Torcida Jovem (CR Flamengo), Máfia Azul (Cruzeiro Esporte Clube) and Leões da TUF (Fortaleza Esporte Clube) and some other alliances. The \"torcidas organizadas\" are usually bigger and more committed to the spectacle in the stadiums than the English hooligan fans but they often schedule fights against rival groups where many are injured and killed. Fans of local rivals TJP – Torcida Jovem Ponte Preta (Associação Atlética Ponte Preta) and TFI -Torcida Fúria Independente (Guarani Futebol Clube) clashed and rioted at a match in Campinas in 2002. Violence had been expected, and just before kick-off, fans started fighting. Police tried to intervene but were pelted by stones. As the fighting continued inside the stadium, a railing collapsed and numerous fans fell over 13 ft (four metres) into a pit between the stands and the pitch. Over 30 people were injured. In Porto Alegre on South Brazil, Grêmio and Internacional fans, have a different way to support their teams with too much beer, no samba, no T-shirt identification, these 2 firms in this big city results in a long history of tension and conflict.\nRio de Janeiro State Police has a special battalion to deal with torcidas called GEPE (Grupamento Especial de Policiamento em Estádios, Portuguese for Stadium Police Special Unit).\n\nFollowing a 5-0 victory against arch-rivals Nacional in April 2014, Peñarol have undertaken an increasingly violent and unhinged attitude in the Uruguayan Clasico. While losing a championship play-off match against Nacional in June 2015, Peñarol's fans started a riot that delayed the game by 15 minutes before it was called off. In March 2016, Pablo Montiel - a supporter of Nacional - was shot to death by Peñarol fans after walking in the same neighborhood as Peñarol's new stadium named \"Campeon del Siglo\" (named after an IFFHS award not recognized by FIFA, intended as a petty insult towards Nacional). Ignacio Ruglio, a board member of Peñarol who have openly spread lies about Nacional, was interrogated by police following the murder of Montiel. In November 2016, the Uruguayan Clasico was cancelled before kick-off after Peñarol's supporters started a riot at the Estadio Centenario - one supporter was arrested holding a pistol, intended to shoot down Nacional players from the Amsterdam tribune. After winning a Clasico for Peñarol in September 2017, team captain Cristian Rodriguez openly called for murdering Nacional fans while celebrating the victory.\n\nThe \"Football War\" (Spanish: \"La guerra del fútbol\"), also known as the \"Soccer War\" or \"100 Hour War\", was a brief war fought by El Salvador and Honduras in 1969. It was caused by political conflicts between Hondurans and Salvadorans, namely issues concerning immigration from El Salvador to Honduras. These existing tensions between the two countries coincided with the inflamed rioting during the second North American qualifying round of the 1970 FIFA World Cup. Honduras and El Salvador met in the second North American qualifying round for the 1970 FIFA World Cup. There was fighting between fans at the first game in the Honduran capital of Tegucigalpa on 8 June 1969, which Honduras won 1–0. The second game, on 15 June 1969 in the Salvadoran capital of San Salvador, which was won 3–0 by El Salvador, was followed by even greater violence. A play-off match took place in Mexico City on 26 June 1969. El Salvador won 3–2 after extra time.\n\nThe war began on 14 July 1969, when the El Salvadoran military launched an attack against Honduras. The Organization of American States negotiated a cease-fire on the night of 18 July (hence \"100 Hour War\"), which took full effect on 20 July. El Salvadoran troops were withdrawn in early August. El Salvador dissolved all ties with Honduras, stating that \"the government of Honduras has not taken any effective measures to punish these crimes which constitute genocide, nor has it given assurances of indemnification or reparations for the damages caused to Salvadorans\". This led to border clashes between the two nations.\n\nFootball hooliganism in Mexico appears to be low key, but there have been some incidents, such as small-scale fighting between fans of Monterrey and Morelia at a Primera División match in Monterrey in 2003. In June 1998, one man died and several people were injured when Mexico football fans rioted after Mexico lost to Germany in the World Cup. After the match, hundreds of riot police were brought in to restore order because fans were looting and rioting. Fans then clashed with the police, and many fans were injured or arrested. In March 2014 dozens of Chivas supporters clashed with police during their derby with Atlas. Several police were hospitalized. As a result, Chivas banned all of their supporters for the Clasico against Club America.\n\nAt the 2015 Gold Cup, Mexican hooligans threw trash and drinks in separate games against Trinidad & Tobago and Panama.\n\nWhile soccer is traditionally viewed in the United States as a family-friendly event, played by children and supported by parents, some violence does still occur. For junior league soccer, parents can be overzealous and be begrudged over unrelated matters and fights between parents have been documented and reported with police being called and intervening. For major league soccer, on 20 July 2008, in a friendly match between Major League Soccer side Columbus Crew and English Premier League club West Ham United, in Columbus, Ohio, a fight broke out between rival fans. Police estimated more than 100 people were involved. An unruly encounter occurred between Toronto FC fans in 2009, upset from a loss in the Trillium Cup, and Columbus Crew fans. One Toronto fan was tasered by Columbus police.\n\nThat same weekend, a riot was narrowly avoided at a packed Giants Stadium as members of the New York Red Bulls supporters club, Empire Supporters Club (ESC), and members of the New Jersey Sports and Exposition Authority security force clashed over what the ESC claimed was unfair and repeated mistreatment. Clashes also took place in the parking area around the stadium after the game, involving already ejected-for-life North Jersey Firm (NJF) members, and the New Jersey State Police were called to quell the situation. There were several arrests, mostly of known NJF hooligans. A rare moment of violence broke out in Seattle in March 2010 after a pre-season Portland Timbers win in Seattle, when three Sounders fans attacked a Timbers fan, choking and dragging him with his team scarf. On 21 April 2013 in Portland, a Portland Timbers supporter was assaulted by a group of San Jose Earthquakes supporters. While he was sitting in his car, he had taunted his scarf at a group of San Jose Supporters, one of which ran toward him and attacked him through his car window, breaking his car windshield and assaulting him. San Jose's 1906 Ultras were subsequently banned by the club from traveling to away matches. After much debate, the ban was lifted. On 10 August 2015, fans of New York Red Bulls and New York City FC clashed in a brawl outside a pub throwing trash and exchanging blows. On 23 May 2016, fans of both NYC FC and New York Red Bulls rioted outside Yankee Stadium in response to NYC FC's 7-0 defeat to the New York Red Bulls.\n\nFootball hooliganism in Bangladesh does not appear to be a major problem. However, in August 2001, 100 people were injured when thousands of football fans rampaged at a B-League match between Mohammedan Sporting Club and Rahmatganj Sporting Club in the Bangabandhu National Stadium, Dhaka. When the referee disallowed a penalty, Mohammedan fans invaded the pitch, throwing stones at the police, who had to fire tear gas at the fans to try and restore order. Outside the stadium dozens of cars and buses were damaged and set on fire.\n\nFootball hooliganism in China is often linked to accusations of corrupt refereeing, with Chinese football being plagued by allegations of match fixing in the early 2000s. After a match in 2000 between Shaanxi Guoli and Chengdu Wuniu in Xi'an, football fans clashed with police who used tear gas and water cannons to disperse the crowd. Eight people were arrested but later released. In March 2002 hundreds of football fans rioted at a match in Xi'an between Shaanxi Guoli and Qingdao Yizhong, as a result of fans' suspicions of match-fixing.\n\nTwo years earlier, following crowd trouble at a match also in Xi'an, the government demanded more action to stamp out football hooliganism.\n\nIn June 2002, riots in Fuzhou, Fujian had to be put down by heavily armed paramilitary police. The disorder started when fans were unable to watch the World Cup match between China and Brazil at an outside broadcast. On 4 July 2004 fans rioted in Beijing when China lost the final of the AFC Asian Cup to Japan, 3–1. Japanese flags were burned and a Japanese Embassy official's car vandalised. Japanese fans had to be protected by the police, and bussed to safety. The rioting was attributed to ill-feeling toward Japan for atrocities committed before and during the Second World War.\n\nBetween 1995 and 2018 there has been recorded 70 deaths in Indonesian soccer by the NGO Save Our Soccer (SOS). According to SOS data, 21 deaths of the 70, have occurred at the hands of a mob.\n\nIn India, most of the documented football riots have primarily taken place in Kolkata. Everytime the Calcutta derby takes place between Mohun Bagan A.C. and East Bengal F.C., tensions arise. However, it has taken the form of escalating violence twice- notably, at Eden Gardens on 16 August 1980. 16 people lost their lives that day due to a stampede. Another incident took place on 9 December 2012 at the Salt Lake Stadium. Though nobody was killed, Syed Nabi, a Mohun Bagan A.C. footballer, was injured by a brick thrown, according to the player, by Mohun Bagan A.C. supporters.\n\nIn the 2000s, tensions surrounding the Arab–Israeli conflict spilled over into sporadic riots between Jewish and Arab Israeli football fans. In December 2000 it was reported that every club in Israel was on a final warning following escalating violence and intimidation at matches.\n\nA number of incidents have involved Beitar Jerusalem, including racist abuse against overseas players, anti-Arab chants, use of smoke bombs and fireworks, and rioting. Beitar has a hooligan firm, La Familia, whose members consider Israeli Arabs to be their enemy. In November 2007 the Israel Football Association (IFA) ordered Beitar to play their game against the Arab club, Bnei Sakhnin behind closed doors after Beitar fans, led by La Familia, broke a minute's silence for former Prime Minister of Israel, Yitzhak Rabin and sang chants in praise of his assassin, Yigal Amir. After a pitch invasion led by La Familia on 13 April 2008, when Beitar were leading Maccabi Herzliya, 1–0, and about to win the Israeli Premier League, the match was abandoned and the points to their opponents. Beitar was docked two points and had to play its remaining home games behind closed doors.\n\nFootball riots in Jordan are generally regarded as an expression of tension between the country's Palestinian ethnic group and those who regard themselves as ethnically Jordanian, the two groups being of roughly equal size.\n\nIn December 2010, rioting broke out following a game between rival Amman clubs Al-Wehdat and Al-Faisaly clubs. Some Al-Faisali fans threw bottles at Al-Wehdat players and their fans. About 250 people were injured, 243 of them Al-Wehdat fans, according to senior officials from the hospitals. According to Al Jazeera, supporters of Al-Wehdat are generally of Palestinian origin, while Faisaly fans are of Jordanian origin. A similar riot occurred in 2009.\n\nFootball hooliganism in Malaysia frequently happen be it on league or international matches since 1980, and frequently associated with the hooligan supporters from clubs such as Kedah FA, Kelantan FA, Johor Darul Takzim F.C. Pahang FA, Sarawak FA, Selangor FA and Terengganu FA. During the 2014 AFF Championship, after Malaysia lost 1–2 to Vietnam, some Malaysian hooligan fans rushed to Vietnamese supporters area and began attacking Vietnamese fans resulting in injuries. After a series of investigation, a number of the hooligan supporters were found to be from the \"Inter Johor Firm\", one of the Johor Darul Takzim F.C. supporters and have since been banned from attending any matches. In early 17 May 2015, during the final FA Cup, Singapore LionsXII players and their fans were stranded at the Sultan Mizan Zainal Abidin Stadium for about five hours, after Terengganu fans turned violent over their team's failure to qualify to the Malaysian FA Cup final. Also in the same year on 8 September 2015, the FIFA World Cup qualification match between Malaysia and Saudi Arabia was abandoned after Malaysian hooligan supporters disrupt the match and attacking Saudis supporters. The scoreline before the match was abandoned was 1–2 in favour to Saudi Arabia. Another incident during the 2017 Southeast Asian Games that were hosted by Malaysia occurred on 21 August when two Myanmar football supporters was assaulted by a group of unidentified assailants after the end of the men's football group match between Malaysia and Myanmar. On 24 November 2018,It is being reported that around 20 Myanmar fans, including women, who were waiting for bus in Kuala Lumpur were attacked by around 30 Malaysians who physically and verbally assaulted the supporters after the end of 2018 AFF Championship.According to the Myanmar fans, the attackers shouted “babi” (pigs) at them as some of them ran off from the scene. But a few others were injured in the attack and had to be taken to the nearby hospital with the help of a local charity organisation.According to reports, the girls among the Myanmar fans were kicked at with three fans suffering serious injuries. The mobile phones of the Myanmar supporters were also grabbed by the attackers.\n\nHooliganism at Myanmar's football matches is common. On 1 October 2011, FIFA announced that Myanmar will be banned from the 2018 World Cup qualifiers after a home tie against Oman had to be stopped when the crowd pelted the opposition with bottles and rocks. \nThe ban however lifted on 7 November 2011 after FIFA reconsider the appeal made by the Myanmar Football Federation (MFF). During the 2013 Southeast Asian Games which Myanmar become the host, the sudden defeat of Myanmar football team to Indonesia in the group match that causing them failed to qualify the semi-finals led the Myanmar hooligan supporters to tore up seats, hurled stones at officers as well burning Southeast Asian Games memorabilia and other billboards.\n\nSupporters at home stadium Dasarath Stadium tend to act violently in regards to International Match. Cell phones and other objects were thrown during a match versus Bangladesh. Coins were hurled at players at a match against Palestine.\n\nThere was brief unrest from North Korean fans at an international match vs Iran in North Korea in 2005. It appears that a North Korean player got into an argument with the Syrian referee, and then things got out of hand.\n\nOn 12 March 2004 a fight between Arab and Kurdish supporters of rival Syrian football clubs at a match in Qamishli, north east of Damascus, escalated into full-scale riots that left 25 people dead and hundreds injured.\n\nHooliganism has begun to cast a dark spell on Thai football especially in the 2010s, with several club or international matches were marred with violences. During the 2014 Thai Premier League, following the 3–1 victory of Muangthong United F.C. against Singhtarua F.C., it sparked violence between the two clubs supporters. Another incident involving Thai supporters following Thai's victory against Vietnam in the 2015 AFF U-19 Youth Championship hosted by Laos began when they lighting and waving signal flares which responded by a team of Lao police who went into the stands to make sure that nobody got hurt but were met with a violent backlash from the hooligan supporters causing the police to fired a warning shot. Also after their victory in the 2016 AFF Championship, the Football Association of Thailand (FAT) was fined with U$30,000 for failing to prevent the hooligan supporters in their own stadium to set flares. Despite its co-operation with police in finding and arresting the hooligans, Thailand has been warned that severe punishment will be given if it happens again at any future FIFA or AFC matches.\n\nShortly after the end of the second leg 2016 AFF Championship semi-finals match in Hanoi between Indonesia and Vietnam, the Indonesian team while on their way back to their hostel was suddenly attacked by angry Vietnamese supporters who riding motorcycles with two large rocks being thrown into their bus following the failure of the Vietnamese national team to qualify for the finals, resulting in a slight injury of an Indonesian goalkeeping coach and their team doctor. One of the Indonesian player, Evan Dimas describe the attacks as “could ending someone career” as he witnessed “the two big rocks almost hit someone in the face while strucking the bus window” which led their bus driver to make a U-turn back to Mỹ Đình National Stadium for protection from the Vietnamese authorities especially when the large angry crowd of motorcyclists began to numbering and tried to surrounding their bus. A replacement bus was eventually dispatched with a heavy security from the Vietnamese authorities following the attacks with the Vietnam Football Federation (VFF) and other Vietnamese fans issuing an apology over the incident.\n\nFour died when troops opened fire at a derby match between AS Vita Club and DC Motema Pembe at the Stade des Martyrs in Kinshasa in November 1998. In April 2001, 14 people died following a stampede at a derby match between TP Mazembe and FC Saint Eloi Lupopo. When fans invaded the pitch after Mazembe had equalised, and rival fans started throwing missiles at each other, the police fired tear gas, and fans rushed to escape the effects of the tear gas. In the resulting stampede, 14 people died. Fans of the two clubs are alleged to have a history of hatred and violence towards each other.\n\nIn January 2006 riot police attacked Libyan fans in the Cairo International Stadium after they threw missiles at the Egyptian fans in the tier above them during a match between the Egypt national football team and the Morocco national team. The Libyan fans had stayed on to watch the match after they had seen Libya lose 2–1 to Côte d'Ivoire and had started taunting the home supporters. The Egyptian fans responded by asking them to leave the stadium and verbally attacking them at half time, and when, despite a plea to stop, it continued into the second half, the riot police were called in. The Libyan Football Association were fined $7,000 by the Confederation of African Football disciplinary Commission.\n\nA melee broke out on 1 February 2012, after fans of Al-Masry, the home team in Port Said, stormed the field after a rare 3–1 win against Al-Ahly, Egypt's top team. Al-Masry supporters attacked the Al-Ahly players and their fans, who tried to escape, with knives, swords, clubs, stones, bottles, and fireworks. At least 79 people were killed and over 1,000 were injured from both sides in the Mediterranean port city. On 26 January 2013 rioting broke out in Port Said in response to the announcement of death sentences for 21 individuals involved in the February 2012 disturbance. A mob of al-Masry supporters attempted to storm the prison where the sentenced were held; in the subsequent rioting 30 people were killed, including two police officers, and some 300 injured .\n\nAt the 2015 Africa Cup of Nations, at the semi-finals between the host country Equatorial Guinea and Ghana, hooligans invaded the pitch and threw bottles and missiles at the Ghana players. The Ghana FA compared it to a war zone in a tweet.\n\nMassive riots occurred during and after a Cup of African Nations qualifying game between rival neighbours Senegal and Gambia at the Leopold Sedar Senghor Stadium in Dakar, Senegal in June 2003. Gambian supporters hurled missiles towards Senegalese fans and were subsequently charged by soldiers. After the game, violent clashes were reported in both Gambia and Senegal. In Gambia several severe beatings of Senegalese citizens occurred, which led to over 200 Senegalese seeking shelter at their embassy. Also, there were rumours of a fatal beating of a Senegalese citizen. In Senegal a Gambian BBC reporter was attacked and robbed by a group of youths. The riots eventually led to the closing of the border between Gambia and Senegal until order was restored.\n\nUp to 125 people died and hundreds were injured when football fans stampeded at a match in Accra in 2001. Accra Hearts were leading 2–1 against Asante Kotoko – with five minutes left in the match – when some fans began throwing bottles and chairs onto the pitch. Police then fired tear gas into the crowd, creating panic. Fans rushed to escape the gas, and in the ensuing crush, up to 125 people were killed.\n\nGhana giant Asante Kotoko face ban after Fans assault referee in CAF confederations cup game with Etoile du Sahel of Tunisia.\n\nFighting among fans at a match led to one death on 6 May 2001 and injured 39 people.\n\nIn Kenya, the most hotly contested rivalry is the Nairobi derby between A.F.C. Leopards and Gor Mahia, both of whose fans are regularly associated with hooliganism. On 18 March 2012, a derby match was held up for over 26 minutes when a riot broke out leading to destruction of property and several people injured, after Gor Mahia midfielder Ali Abondo was shown a red card for a dangerous tackle on Leopards defender Amon Muchiri. Gor Mahia were banned by the Sports Stadia Management Board from playing in their facilities for the rest of the 2012 season, meaning that the club will not be able to play in neither the Nyayo National Stadium nor the Moi International Sports Centre. The KPL Board has yet to announce further disciplinary measures on the club. There is also a 2014 case where Gor Mahia fans are alleged to have injured Machakos residents and also vandalized property.\n\nEight fans died and 39 were injured as troops opened fire to stop both pro- and anti-Muammar al-Gaddafi sentiments being expressed in a Tripoli stadium during a match between Al Ahli and Al Ittihad in December 1996.\n\nAfter a World Cup qualifying match between Mali and Togo on 27 March 2005, which Togo won 2–1, Mali fans rioted and went on a spree of destruction and violence. The trouble started when Togo scored the winning goal. Police fired tear gas at Mali fans who had invaded the pitch. The match was abandoned and the result awarded to Togo. The result set off a wave of violence in the capital of Mali, Bamako. Thousands of Mali fans in Bamako began chanting threats toward the Mali players, cars were set on fire, stores looted, property and monuments destroyed and a building housing the local Olympics committee burnt down.\n\nIn May 1999, seven people died when rioting football fans threw petrol bombs into a casino, following a match in Port Louis between the Mauritian League champions, Scouts Club, and Fire Brigade SC. After the match which Fire Brigade SC won, hundreds of Scouts fans went on a rampage, attacking police vehicles and torching sugar cane fields.\n\nThe government of Mozambique had to apologise for the violent behaviour of Mozambique fans, before, during and after a match between Mozambique team, Clube Ferroviário de Maputo and Zimbabwe team, Dynamos on 10 May 1998. Ferroviário fans attacked the Dynamo players and the referee, stoned vehicles and fought running battles with riot police outside the stadium. Fifteen people, including four Red Cross workers, needed hospital treatment.\n\nIn Johannesburg, South Africa, on 14 January 1991, forty people died when fans surged toward a jammed exit to escape rival brawling fans at a match southwest of Johannesburg.\nSundowns had just scored their sixth goal in the 82nd minute at Loftus Stadium on Saturday afternoon when irate Buccaneers supporters invaded the pitch and clashed with Sundowns fans, resulting in several injuries.\n\nPlay was stopped for close to an hour before the last eight minutes were played, and 6-0 it ended.\n\nIn July 2000 twelve people died following a stampede, when they were crushed, at a World Cup qualifying match between Zimbabwe and South Africa in Harare. Police fired tear gas when the crowd started throwing missiles onto the pitch, after South Africa had taken a two-goal lead. After Delron Buckley scored South Africa's second goal bottles began to fly onto the pitch. The police then fired tear gas into the 60,000 crowd, who began running to the exits to escape the effects of the tear gas. The match had to be abandoned as players from both sides felt the effects of the tear gas and had to receive medical treatment. The police were condemned for firing tear gas, calling it a total over-reaction. In July 2002, two fans were shot when police opened fire on rioting fans at a match in Bulawayo. Seven police officers were injured and five vehicles badly damaged.\n\nSince the formation of the A-League in 2004, and the fall of the National Soccer League, football hooliganism has died off in competitions and incidents have become a one-off event during seasons.\n\nThe incident with most notoriety in Australia is the Pratten Park riot in 1985 where hundreds of fans stormed the pitch midway through a Sydney Olympic v Sydney City match. In a match between Melbourne Heart and Melbourne Victory in February 2013, 17 plastic seats were destroyed and flares were firing off. In a match between Sydney FC and Melbourne Victory in November 2013, one travelling Melbourne Victory fan was hospitalised with a stab wound by a sixteen-year-old civilian. In December 2013, a riot between Melbourne Victory and Western Sydney Wanderers broke out at a pub before the match later that day. \nAt an international football friendly between Australia and Serbia in Melbourne in June 2011, fans lit flares both inside and outside the stadium, and in city streets. Banners supporting Ratko Mladić, the Serbian military leader charged with war crimes by the International Court of Justice, were displayed. A laser pointer was seen in use. A seat inside the stadium was deemed damaged. In February 2011, Victoria Police said they were reluctant to cover Melbourne Victory games because of unacceptable behaviour by fans. Problems included violence, anti-social behaviour and the lighting of flares. Although the A-League is relatively young, being only 12 years old, there are hooligan and casual groups within club's active supporter bases. Although it is nothing like football hooliganism in Europe (or what it used to be), anti-social events occur somewhat rarely. A primary example would be the Bourke Street Brawl between Melbourne Victory and Western Sydney Wanderers fans, who gathered in numbers before a match in late 2013 and had a brawl in Melbourne, concerning many who are involved with football in Australia and authorities. There are small hooligan/casual groups in Australia, the most prominent being from the League's biggest fanbases, Melbourne Victory, Sydney FC and Western Sydney Wanderers though others exist within other supporter groups.\n\nFootball hooliganism has been depicted in films such as \"ID\", \"The Firm\", \"Cass\", \"The Football Factory\", \"Green Street\", \"Rise of the Footsoldier\", \"Awaydays\", \"The Brothers Grimsby\" and \"Eurotrip\". There are also many books about hooliganism, such as \"The Football Factory\" and \"Among the Thugs\". Some critics argue that these media representations glamorise violence and the hooligan lifestyle.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1508112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1508112", "title": "Four continents", "text": "Four continents\n\nEuropeans in the 16th century divided the world into four continents: Africa, America, Asia and Europe. Each of the four continents was seen to represent its quadrant of the world—Europe in the north, Asia in the east, Africa in the south, and America in the west. This division fit the Renaissance sensibilities of the time, which also divided the world into four seasons, four classical elements, four cardinal directions, four classical virtues, etc.\n\nThe four parts of the world or the four corners of the world refers to the Americas (the \"west\"), Europe (the \"north\"), Asia (the \"east\"), and Africa (the \"south\"). \n\nBefore the discovery of the New World a commonplace of classical and medieval geography had been the \"three parts\" in which, from Mediterranean and European perspectives, the world was divided: Europe, Asia and Africa. As Laurent de Premierfait, the pre-eminent French translator of Latin literature in the early fifteenth century, informed his readers:\nAsia is one of the three parts of the world, which the authors divide in Asia, Africa and Europe. Asia extends towards the Orient as far as the rising sun (\"devers le souleil levant\"), towards the south (\"midi\") it ends at the great sea, towards the occident it ends at our sea, and towards the north (\"septentrion\") it ends in the Maeotian marshes and the river named \"Thanaus\".\n\nFor Laurent's French readers, Asia ended at \"our sea\", the Mediterranean; Europeans were only dimly aware of the Ural Mountains, which divide Europe from Asia in the eyes of the modern geographer, and which represent the geological suture between two fragmentary continents, or cratons. Instead, the division between these continents in the European-centered picture was the Hellespont, which neatly separated Europe from Asia. From the European perspective, into the Age of Discovery, Asia began beyond the Hellespont with Asia Minor, where the Roman province of Asia had lain, and stretched away to unimaginably exotic and distant places— \"the Orient\".\n\nIn the sixteenth century America too was full of exotic promise: the \"New World\".\n\nIn 1603, Cesare Ripa published a book of emblems for the use of artists and artisans who might be called upon to depict allegorical figures. He covered an astonishingly wide variety of fields, and his work was reprinted many times. It was still being brought up-to-date in the 18th century. The illustrations reveal fixed Eurocentric perceptions of the nature of the \"four corners of the world.\" Ripa's \"Europe\" (\"illustration, left\") is the land of abundance (cornucopia) of kings and the pope, whose crowns and the papal tiara lie at her feet, and of cities.\n\n\"Africa\", by contrast (\"illustration, below right\") wears the elephant headdress (worn by rulers depicted on Hellenistic Bactrian coins) and is accompanied by a lion, the scorpion of the desert sands and Cleopatra's asps. \"Asia\" (\"illustration, right\"), the seat of Religion, carries a smoking censer as a camel takes its ease.\n\nAnd the iconic image of \"America\" (\"illustration, below left\") shows a Native American maiden in a feathered headdress, with bow and arrow. Perhaps she represents a fabled Amazon from the river that already carried the name.\n\nThe American millionaire philanthropist James Hazen Hyde, who inherited a majority share in Equitable Life Assurance Society, formed a collection of allegorical prints illustrating the Four Continents that are now at the New-York Historical Society; Hyde's drawings and a supporting collection of sets of porcelain table ornaments and other decorative arts illustrating the Four Continents were shared by various New York City museums.\nThe Renaissance associated one major river to each of the continents.\nThe Four Rivers theme appears for example in the Fontana dei Quattro Fiumi in the Piazza Navona in Rome.\n\nWith the confirmed discovery that Australia was an island continent, the theme of the \"Four Continents\" lost much of its drive, long before a sixth continent, Antarctica, was discovered. The iconography survived as the Four Corners of the World, however, generally in self-consciously classicizing contexts: for instance, in New York, in front of the Beaux-Arts Alexander Hamilton U.S. Custom House (1907), four sculptural groups by Daniel Chester French symbolize the \"Four Corners of the World.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39583657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39583657", "title": "Gang of Barbarians", "text": "Gang of Barbarians\n\nThe Gang of Barbarians () was a French criminal gang whose members were responsible for the kidnapping, torture and killing of Ilan Halimi.\n\nThe crime was committed by a group of persons belonging to a gang calling themselves \"les barbares\" (The Barbarians). Many of them have criminal records and have been imprisoned.\n\nDuring the investigation it appeared that key members of the group were probably implicated in at least 15 other cases of kidnapping or racketeering. Posing as members of the National Front for the Liberation of Corsica or members of the French division of the PFLP, they threatened several high-ranking CEOs including Jérôme Clément, president of the European TV operator Arte, Rony Brauman, former president and co-founder of Médecins Sans Frontières, and the CEO as well as another high-ranking member of a large company selling home appliances. They sent threatening pictures of an unknown man dressed as a middle-eastern Arab in front of a picture of Osama Bin Laden. In another case, the owner of a large grocery store was directed to pay 100,000 euros.\n\nIn total, 27 individuals were under investigation and were subsequently put on trial. Among these:\n\n\n\n\nOthers who were implicated:\n\n\nMany others were implicated but their direct connection to the crime could not be proven.\n\nOn February 22, 2008, six members of a group calling themselves \"Barbarians\" assaulted 19-year-old Mathieu Roumi in the same Paris suburb of Bagneux where Halimi was kidnapped. For two hours the attackers tortured the young man. One shoved cigarette butts into his mouth, another took issue with Roumi's Jewish origin (paternal), grabbed correction fluid and scrawled \"sale juif\" (\"dirty Jew\") and \"sale PD\" (\"dirty faggot\") on his forehead. When the issue of his sexual orientation arose, one of them placed a condom on the tip of a stick and shoved it in Roumi's mouth. The six men proceeded to scream at him and threaten that he would die the way Halimi did. The men were all arrested.\n\nThe kidnapping seems to be motivated by a combination of antisemitism and a desire for money. Although the torture was largely directed at his genitals, there was no evidence of sexual assault or a sexual motive.\n\nThe kidnappers originally thought Halimi was wealthy because he came from a Moroccan Jewish family, though he came from the same poor and working-class neighborhood on the outskirts of Paris as the kidnappers did.\nAccording to then Interior Minister Nicolas Sarkozy, members of the gang confessed that they believed all Jews to be rich and it motivated them to target several Jews.\n\nThe kidnappers demanded ransom, initially EUR 450,000, eventually decreasing to EUR 5,000. It has been claimed that the family of Halimi was told that if they could not raise the money, they should get it from the Jewish community.\n\nIn order to convince Halimi's parents their son had been kidnapped, the abductors sent a picture of the young man being threatened by a gun and holding a newspaper to prove the date and time.\n\nThe French police were heavily criticized because they initially believed that antisemitism was not a factor in the crime.\nPolice have attributed to the banlieues' gang subculture a \"poisonous mentality that designates Jews as enemies along with other 'outsiders,'\" such as Americans, mainstream French, and Europeans in general. \"If they could have gotten their hands on a (non-Jewish) French cop in the same way, they probably would have done the same thing,\" a retired police chief opined. This may have hampered the original investigation. Antisemitism is an aggravating circumstance (\"circonstance aggravante\") in a murder case in France.\n\nRuth Halimi, Ilan's mother, subsequently co-authored a book with Émilie Frèche titled \"24 jours: la vérité sur la mort d'Ilan Halimi\", released April 2009. In the book, Ruth claimed that French police never suspected her son's kidnappers would kill the 23-year-old after three weeks in captivity in 2006, partly because they would not face the antisemitic character of the crime (as reported in the French daily Le Figaro). Émilie Frèche stated that \"by denying the anti-semitic character, ... [the police] did not figure out the profile of the gang.\" The book details how Ilan's parents were told to stay silent during the ordeal and were ordered not to seek aid in order to pay the ransom, nor show their son's photo to people who might have come forward with information about his whereabouts.\n\nIn an interview with \"Elle\" Magazine on March 27, 2009, Ruth Halimi stated that \"The police were completely off the mark. They thought they were dealing with classic bandits, but these people were beyond the norm.\" Halimi stated that she wrote the book to \"alert public opinion to the danger of anti-semitism which has returned in other forms, so that a story like this can never happen again\".\n\nThe case was widely reported on both in and outside France.\n\nThen French prime minister, Dominique de Villepin declared that the \"odious crime\" was antisemitic, and that antisemitism is not acceptable in France.\n\nSix French associations called for a mass demonstration against racism and antisemitism in Paris on Sunday, February 26. Between 33,000 (as estimated by police) and 80,000 to 200,000 (as estimated by the organizers) people participated in Paris, as well as thousands around the country. Present were public figures such as Philippe Douste-Blazy, François Hollande, Lionel Jospin and Nicolas Sarkozy. Also among the participants were Dalil Boubakeur, head of the Paris Mosque and Chairman of the Council of Muslims in France, and Cardinal Jean-Marie Lustiger. Right-wing politician Philippe de Villiers was booed by far-left militants and had to leave under police guard.\n\nOn May 9, the United States Helsinki Commission held a briefing titled \"Tools for Combatting Anti-Semitism: Police Training and Holocaust Education\" chaired by Commission Co-Chairman Chris Smith (a Republican representative) who said: \"[Halimi's] tragedy made brutally clear that Jews are still attacked because they are Jews, and that our work to eradicate all forms of anti-Semitism in all its ugly forms and manifestations is far from done.\"\n\nA number of books have been written about the case. Among them:\n\nThe trial, which started on April 29, 2009, was conducted behind closed doors because two of the suspects were minors.\n\nThe Halimi family wanted the trial to be conducted openly. Francis Szpiner spoke for Ruth Halimi, saying, \"A public trial would have helped [people] better understand the criminal machine, to make parents and teenagers reflect. It's the law of silence that killed her son, it would be unbearable for the trial to remain silent.\"\n\nThe trial took 10 weeks.\n\n\nOn the evening of Friday, July 10, 2009, the verdict was handed down. Ilan Halimi's mother and others were absent from the court, as the Sabbath had already started.\n\nOf the 27 people on trial, 3 were acquitted.\n\nA number of others, whose implication was not direct, or related to other activities of the gang, received smaller sentences. Three persons were acquitted. Notable is that one person, for whom originally no sentence was asked, received a suspended sentence.\n\nSorour Arbabzadeh, the then-17-year-old French-Iranian girl who acted as bait to trap Halimi, was sentenced to 9 years imprisonment. While serving her sentence in the Versailles women's prison, she seduced a guard and the director of the prison, Florent Gonçalves, who is now imprisoned himself. For this she was sentenced to four months imprisonment.\n\nThe sentences issued after the first trial were criticized as too lenient by some parties, while others such as the attorney general Philippe Bilger found the sentences \"exemplary\". Minister of Justice Michèle Alliot-Marie, demanded an appeal of 8 of the 17 heaviest verdicts.\n\nRichard Prasquier, president of CRIF, France's main Jewish organization, said that a law may soon be available that would preclude closed-door trials in this type of case. \"Perhaps in a year's time there will be a new trial, and perhaps it will be public.\"\n\nA Halimi relative said: \"The important thing for me is not handing out heavier jail terms, honestly. The important thing is to open this to the press and public and make it a learning experience.\"\n\nThe retrial was officially announced Monday July 10, 2009. It started on October 25, 2010, and ended on December 17, 2010, with all convictions upheld and time added to some sentences.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "424440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=424440", "title": "H-theorem", "text": "H-theorem\n\nIn classical statistical mechanics, the \"H\"-theorem, introduced by Ludwig Boltzmann in 1872, describes the tendency to decrease in the quantity \"H\" (defined below) in a nearly-ideal gas of molecules. As this quantity \"H\" was meant to represent the entropy of thermodynamics, the \"H\"-theorem was an early demonstration of the power of statistical mechanics as it claimed to derive the second law of thermodynamics—a statement about fundamentally irreversible processes—from reversible microscopic mechanics. It is thought to prove the second law of thermodynamics, albeit under the assumption of low-entropy initial conditions.\n\nThe \"H\"-theorem is a natural consequence of the kinetic equation derived by Boltzmann that has come to be known as Boltzmann's equation. The \"H\"-theorem has led to considerable discussion about its actual implications, with major themes being:\n\nThe \"H\" value is determined from the function \"f\"(\"E\", \"t\") \"dE\", which is the energy distribution function of molecules at time \"t\". The value \"f\"(\"E\", \"t\") \"dE\" is the number of molecules that have kinetic energy between \"E\" and \"E\" + \"dE\". \"H\" itself is defined as\n\nFor an isolated ideal gas (with fixed total energy and fixed total number of particles), the function \"H\" is at a minimum when the particles have a Maxwell–Boltzmann distribution; if the molecules of the ideal gas are distributed in some other way (say, all having the same kinetic energy), then the value of \"H\" will be higher. Boltzmann's \"H\"-theorem, described in the next section, shows that when collisions between molecules are allowed, such distributions are unstable and tend to irreversibly seek towards the minimum value of \"H\" (towards the Maxwell–Boltzmann distribution).\n\nBoltzmann considered what happens during the collision between two particles. It is a basic fact of mechanics that in the elastic collision between two particles (such as hard spheres), the energy transferred between the particles varies depending on initial conditions (angle of collision, etc.).\n\nBoltzmann made a key assumption known as the \"Stosszahlansatz\" (molecular chaos assumption), that during any collision event in the gas, the two particles participating in the collision have 1) independently chosen kinetic energies from the distribution, 2) independent velocity directions, 3) independent starting points. Under these assumptions, and given the mechanics of energy transfer, the energies of the particles after the collision will obey a certain new random distribution that can be computed.\n\nConsidering repeated uncorrelated collisions, between any and all of the molecules in the gas, Boltzmann constructed his kinetic equation (Boltzmann's equation). From this kinetic equation, a natural outcome is that the continual process of collision causes the quantity \"H\" to decrease until it has reached a minimum.\n\nAlthough Boltzmann's H-theorem turned out not to be the absolute proof of the second law of thermodynamics as originally claimed (see Criticisms below), the H-theorem led Boltzmann in the last years of the 19th century to more and more probabilistic arguments about the nature of thermodynamics. The probabilistic view of thermodynamics culminated in 1902 with Josiah Willard Gibbs's statistical mechanics for fully general systems (not just gases), and the introduction of generalized statistical ensembles.\n\nThe kinetic equation and in particular Boltzmann's molecular chaos assumption inspired a whole family of Boltzmann equations that are still used today to model the motions of particles, such as the electrons in a semiconductor. In many cases the molecular chaos assumption is highly accurate, and the ability to discard complex correlations between particles makes calculations much simpler.\n\nThere are several notable reasons described below why the \"H\"-theorem, at least in its original 1871 form, is not completely rigorous. As Boltzmann would eventually go on to admit, the arrow of time in the \"H\"-theorem is not in fact purely mechanical, but really a consequence of assumptions about initial conditions.\n\nSoon after Boltzmann published his \"H\" theorem, Johann Josef Loschmidt objected that it should not be possible to deduce an irreversible process from time-symmetric dynamics and a time-symmetric formalism. If the \"H\" decreases over time in one state, then there must be a matching reversed state where \"H\" increases over time (Loschmidt's paradox). The explanation is that Boltzmann's equation is based on the assumption of \"molecular chaos\", i.e., that it follows from, or at least is consistent with, the underlying kinetic model that the particles be considered independent and uncorrelated. It turns out that this assumption breaks time reversal symmetry in a subtle sense, and therefore begs the question. Once the particles are allowed to collide, their velocity directions and positions in fact \"do\" become correlated (however, these correlations are encoded in an extremely complex manner). This shows that an (ongoing) assumption of independence is not consistent with the underlying particle model.\n\nBoltzmann's reply to Loschmidt was to concede the possibility of these states, but noting that these sorts of states were so rare and unusual as to be impossible in practice. Boltzmann would go on to sharpen this notion of the \"rarity\" of states, resulting in his famous equation, his entropy formula of 1877 (see Boltzmann's entropy formula).\n\nAs a demonstration of Loschmidt's paradox, a famous modern counterexample (not to Boltzmann's original gas-related \"H\"-theorem, but to a closely related analogue) is the phenomenon of spin echo. In the spin echo effect, it is physically possible to induce time reversal in an interacting system of spins.\n\nAn analogue to Boltzmann's \"H\" for the spin system can be defined in terms of the distribution of spin states in the system. In the experiment, the spin system is initially perturbed into a non-equilibrium state (high \"H\"), and, as predicted by the \"H\" theorem the quantity \"H\" soon decreases to the equilibrium value. At some point, a carefully constructed electromagnetic pulse is applied that reverses the motions of all the spins. The spins then undo the time evolution from before the pulse, and after some time the \"H\" actually \"increases\" away from equilibrium (once the evolution has completely unwound, the \"H\" decreases once again to the minimum value). In some sense, the time reversed states noted by Loschmidt turned out to be not completely impractical.\n\nIn 1896, Ernst Zermelo noted a further problem with the \"H\" theorem, which was that if the system's \"H\" is at any time not a minimum, then by Poincaré recurrence, the non-minimal \"H\" must recur (though after some extremely long time). Boltzmann admitted that these recurring rises in \"H\" technically would occur, but pointed out that, over long times, the system spends only a tiny fraction of its time in one of these recurring states.\n\nThe second law of thermodynamics states that the entropy of an isolated system always increases to a maximum equilibrium value. This is strictly true only in the thermodynamic limit of an infinite number of particles. For a finite number of particles, there will always be entropy fluctuations. For example, in the fixed volume of the isolated system, the maximum entropy is obtained when half the particles are in one half of the volume, half in the other, but sometimes there will be temporarily a few more particles on one side than the other, and this will constitute a very small reduction in entropy. These entropy fluctuations are such that the longer one waits, the larger an entropy fluctuation one will probably see during that time, and the time one must wait for a given entropy fluctuation is always finite, even for a fluctuation to its minimum possible value. For example, one might have an extremely low entropy condition of all particles being in one half of the container. The gas will quickly attain its equilibrium value of entropy, but given enough time, this same situation will happen again. For practical systems, e.g. a gas in a 1-liter container at room temperature and atmospheric pressure, this time is truly enormous, many multiples of the age of the universe, and, practically speaking, one can ignore the possibility.\n\nSince \"H\" is a mechanically defined variable that is not conserved, then like any other such variable (pressure, etc.) it will show thermal fluctuations. This means that \"H\" regularly shows spontaneous increases from the minimum value. Technically this is not an exception to the \"H\" theorem, since the \"H\" theorem was only intended to apply for a gas with a very large number of particles. These fluctuations are only perceptible when the system is small and the time interval over which it is observed is not enormously large.\n\nIf \"H\" is interpreted as entropy as Boltzmann intended, then this can be seen as a manifestation of the fluctuation theorem.\n\n\"H\" is a forerunner of Shannon's information entropy. Claude Shannon denoted his measure of information entropy \"H\" after the H-theorem. The article on Shannon's information entropy contains an\nexplanation of the discrete counterpart of the quantity \"H\", known as the information entropy or information uncertainty (with a minus sign). By , also called differential entropy, one obtains the expression in Eq.(1), and thus a better feel for the meaning of \"H\".\n\nThe H-theorem's connection between information and entropy plays a central role in a recent controversy called the Black hole information paradox.\n\nTolman's 1938 book \"The Principles of Statistical Mechanics\" dedicates a whole chapter to the study of Boltzmann's \"H\" theorem, and its extension in the generalized classical statistical mechanics of Gibbs. A further chapter is devoted to the quantum mechanical version of the \"H\"-theorem.\n\nWe let formula_2 and formula_3 be our generalized coordinates for a set of formula_4 particles. Then we consider a function formula_5 that returns the probability density of particles, over the states in phase space. Note how this can be multiplied by a small region in phase space, denoted by formula_6, to yeld the (average) expected number of particles in that region.\n\nTolman offers the following equations for the definition of the quantity H in Boltzmann's original H theorem.\n\nHere we sum over the regions into which phase space is divided, indexed by formula_9. And in the limit for an infinitesimal phase space volume formula_10, we can write the sum as an integral.\n\nH can also be written in terms of the number of molecules present in each of the cells.\n\nAn additional way to calculate the quantity H is:\n\nwhere \"P\" is the probability of finding a system chosen at random from the specified microcanonical ensemble. It can finally be written as:\n\nwhere \"G\" is the number of classical states.\n\nThe quantity \"H\" can also be defined as the integral over velocity space :\nwhere \"P\"(\"v\") is the probability distribution.\n\nUsing the Boltzmann equation one can prove that \"H\" can only decrease.\n\nFor a system of \"N\" statistically independent particles, \"H\" is related to the thermodynamic entropy \"S\" through:\n\nSo, according to the H-theorem, \"S\" can only increase.\n\nIn Quantum statistical mechanics (which is the quantum version of classical statistical mechanics), the H-function is the function:\nwhere summation runs over all possible distinct states of the system, and \"p\" is the probability that the system could be found in the \"i\"-th state.\n\nThis is closely related to the entropy formula of Gibbs,\nand we shall (following e.g., Waldram (1985), p. 39) proceed using \"S\" rather than \"H\".\n\nFirst, differentiating with respect to time gives\n\n(using the fact that ∑ \"dp\"/\"dt\" = 0, since ∑ \"p\" = 1).\n\nNow Fermi's golden rule gives a master equation for the average rate of quantum jumps from state α to β; and from state β to α. (Of course, Fermi's golden rule itself makes certain approximations, and the introduction of this rule is what introduces irreversibility. It is essentially the quantum version of Boltzmann's \"Stosszahlansatz\".) For an isolated system the jumps will make contributions\nwhere the reversibility of the dynamics ensures that the same transition constant \"ν\" appears in both expressions.\n\nSo\n\nBut the two differences terms in the summation always have the same sign, so each contribution to \"dS/dt\" cannot be negative.\n\nTherefore,\n\nfor an isolated system.\n\nThe same mathematics is sometimes used to show that relative entropy is a Lyapunov function of a Markov process in detailed balance, and other chemistry contexts.\n\nJosiah Willard Gibbs described another way in which the entropy of a microscopic system would tend to increase over time. Later writers have called this \"Gibbs' \"H\"-theorem\" as its conclusion resembles that of Boltzmann's. Gibbs himself never called it an \"H\"-theorem, and in fact his definition of entropy—and mechanism of increase—are very different from Boltzmann's. This section is included for historical completeness.\n\nThe setting of Gibbs' entropy production theorem is in ensemble statistical mechanics, and the entropy quantity is the Gibbs entropy (information entropy) defined in terms of the probability distribution for the entire state of the system. This is in contrast to Boltzmann's \"H\" defined in terms of the distribution of states of individual molecules, within a specific state of the system.\n\nGibbs considered the motion of an ensemble which initially starts out confined to a small region of phase space, meaning that the state of the system is known with fair precision though not quite exactly (low Gibbs entropy). The evolution of this ensemble over time proceeds according to Liouville's equation. For almost any kind of realistic system, the Liouville evolution tends to \"stir\" the ensemble over phase space, a process analogous to the mixing of a dye in an incompressible fluid. After some time, the ensemble appears to be spread out over phase space, although it is actually a finely striped pattern, with the total volume of the ensemble (and its Gibbs entropy) conserved. Liouville's equation is guaranteed to conserve Gibbs entropy since there is no random process acting on the system; in principle, the original ensemble can be recovered at any time by reversing the motion.\n\nThe critical point of the theorem is thus: If the fine structure in the stirred-up ensemble is very slightly blurred, for any reason, then the Gibbs entropy increases, and the ensemble becomes an equilibrium ensemble. As to why this blurring should occur in reality, there are a variety of suggested mechanisms. For example, one suggested mechanism is that the phase space is coarse-grained for some reason (analogous to the pixelization in the simulation of phase space shown in the figure). For any required finite degree of fineness the ensemble becomes \"sensibly uniform\" after a finite time. Or, if the system experiences a tiny uncontrolled interaction with its environment, the sharp coherence of the ensemble will be lost. Edwin Thompson Jaynes argued that the blurring is subjective in nature, simply corresponding to a loss of knowledge about the state of the system. In any case, however it occurs, the Gibbs entropy increase is irreversible provided the blurring cannot be reversed.\n\nThe exactly evolving entropy, which does not increase, is known as \"fine-grained entropy\". The blurred entropy is known as \"coarse-grained entropy\".\nLeonard Susskind analogizes this distinction to the notion of the volume of a fibrous ball of cotton: On one hand the volume of the fibers themselves is constant, but in another sense there is a larger coarse-grained volume, corresponding to the outline of the ball.\n\nGibbs' entropy increase mechanism solves some of the technical difficulties found in Boltzmann's \"H\"-theorem: The Gibbs entropy does not fluctuate nor does it exhibit Poincare recurrence, and so the increase in Gibbs entropy, when it occurs, is therefore irreversible as expected from thermodynamics. The Gibbs mechanism also applies equally well to systems with very few degrees of freedom, such as the single-particle system shown in the figure. To the extent that one accepts that the ensemble becomes blurred, then, Gibbs' approach is a cleaner proof of the second law of thermodynamics.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2967040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2967040", "title": "Haecceity", "text": "Haecceity\n\n\"Haecceity\" (; from the Latin \"haecceitas\", which translates as \"thisness\") is a term from medieval scholastic philosophy, first coined by followers of Duns Scotus to denote a concept that he seems to have originated: the discrete qualities, properties or characteristics of a thing that make it a \"particular\" thing. Haecceity is a person's or object's \"thisness\", the individualising difference between the concept \"a man\" and the concept \"Socrates\" (\"i.e.\", a specific person).\n\nHaecceity is a literal translation of the equivalent term in Aristotle's Greek to ti esti (τὸ τί ἐστι) or \"the what (it) is.\"\n\nCharles Sanders Peirce later used the term as a non-descriptive reference to an individual.\n\nHaecceity may be defined in some dictionaries as simply the \"essence\" of a thing, or as a simple synonym for quiddity or hypokeimenon. However, such a definition deprives the term of its subtle distinctiveness and utility. Whereas haecceity refers to aspects of a thing that make it a \"particular\" thing, quiddity refers to the universal qualities of a thing, its \"whatness\", or the aspects of a thing it may share with other things and by which it may form part of a genus of things.\n\nDuns Scotus makes the following distinction:\n\nWhile terms such as haecceity, quiddity, noumenon and hypokeimenon all evoke the essence of a thing, they each have subtle differences and refer to different aspects of the thing's essence.\n\nHaecceity thus enabled Scotus to find a middle ground in the debate over universals between Nominalism and Realism.\n\nThe social construction of reality, ethnomethodology, and conversation analysis are the main streams that elaborated during the 1960s a new kind of sociology—which influenced later sociology, philosophy, and political analysis. Harold Garfinkel is the founder of ethnomethodology, and teacher of Harvey Sacks, one of the founders of conversation analysis. He used the word haecceity in his seminal \"Studies in Ethnomethodology\" (1963), to enhance the indexical inevitable character of any expression, behavior or situation. According to him, the members display the social order they refer to within the settings of the situation they contribute to define. The study of particular situations in their \"haecceity\" — aimed at disclosing the ordinary, ongoing social order that is constructed by the members and their practices — is the object of ethnomethodology.\n\nIn his famous paper generally referred to as \"Parson's Plenum\" (1988), Garfinkel used the term \"Haecceities\" to indicate the importance of the infinite contingencies in both situations and practices.\n\nGarfinkel was drawing on phenomenology and Edmund Husserl, logic and Bertrand Russell, and perception theory and Nelson Goodman. Phenomenology is the field of studying the phenomena as such, and can thus be seen as a contemporary philosophical version of the medieval concept of haecceity.\n\nGilles Deleuze uses the term to denote entities that exist on the plane of immanence. The usage was likely chosen in line with his esoteric concept of difference and individuation, and critique of object-centered metaphysics.\n\nGerard Manley Hopkins drew on Scotus — whom he described as “of reality the rarest-veined unraveller” — to construct his poetic theory of inscape.\n\nJames Joyce made similar use of the concept of haecceitas to develop his idea of the secular epiphany.\n\nJames Wood refers extensively to haecceitas (as \"thisness\") in developing an argument about conspicuous detail in aesthetic literary criticism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22216147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22216147", "title": "Harassment", "text": "Harassment\n\nHarassment covers a wide range of behaviors of an offensive nature. It is commonly understood as behavior that demeans, humiliates or embarrasses a person, and it is characteristically identified by its unlikelihood in terms of social and moral reasonableness. In the legal sense, these are behaviors that appear to be disturbing, upsetting or threatening. It evolves from discriminatory grounds, and has an effect of nullifying or impairing a person from benefiting their rights. When this behaviors become repetitive it is defined as bullying. Sexual harassment refers to persistent and unwanted sexual advances even after gently refusing, typically in the workplace, where the consequences are potentially very disadvantageous to the victim if there is a power imbalance between the perpetuator.\n\nThe word is based in English since circa 1618 as a loan word from the French, which was in turn already attested in 1572 meaning \"torment, annoyance, bother, trouble\" and later as of 1609 was also referred to \"the condition of being exhausted, overtired\". Of the French verb \"harasser\" itself there are the first records in a Latin to French translation of 1527 of Thucydides’ History of the war that was between the Peloponnesians and the Athenians both in the countries of the Greeks and the Romans and the neighbouring places wherein the translator writes \"harasser\" allegedly meaning \"harceler\" (to exhaust the enemy by repeated raids); and in the military chant Chanson du franc archer of 1562, where the term is referred to a gaunt jument (\"de poil fauveau, tant maigre et harassée\": of fawn horsehair, so meagre and …) where it is supposed that the verb is used meaning \"overtired\".\n\nA hypothesis about the origin of the verb \"harasser\" is \"harace\"/\"harache\", which was used in the 14th century in expressions like \"courre à la harache\" (to pursue) and \"prendre aucun par la harache\" (to take somebody under constraint). The Französisches Etymologisches Wörterbuch, a German etymological dictionary of the French language (1922–2002) compares phonetically and syntactically both \"harace\" and \"harache\" to the interjection \"hare\" and \"haro\" by alleging a pejorative and augmentative form. The latter was an exclamation indicating distress and emergency (recorded since 1180) but is also reported later in 1529 in the expression \"crier haro sur\" (to arise indignation over somebody). \"hare\" 's use is already reported in 1204 as an order to finish public activities as fairs or markets and later (1377) still as command but referred to dogs. This dictionary suggests a relation of \"haro\"/\"hare\" with the old lower franconian \"*hara\" (here) (as by bringing a dog to heel).\n\nWhile the pejorative of an exclamation and in particular of such an exclamation is theoretically possible for the first word (\"harace\") and maybe phonetically plausible for \"harache\", a semantic, syntactic and phonetic similarity of the verb \"harasser\" as used in the first popular attestation (the chant mentioned above) with the word \"haras\" should be kept in mind: Already in 1160 \"haras\" indicated a group of horses constrained together for the purpose of reproduction and in 1280 it also indicated the enclosure facility itself, where those horses are constrained. The origin itself of \"harass\" is thought to be the old Scandinavian \"hârr\" with the Romanic suffix –as, which meant \"grey or dimmish horsehair\". Controversial is the etymological relation to the Arabic word for \"horse\" whose roman transliteration is faras.\n\nAlthough the French origin of the word 'harassment' is beyond all question in the Oxford English Dictionary and those dictionaries basing on it, a supposed Old French verb \"harer\" should be the origin of the French verb \"harasser\", despite the fact that this verb cannot be found in French etymologic dictionaries like that of the or the Trésor de la langue française informatisé (see also their corresponding websites as indicated in the interlinks); since the entry further alleges a derivation from \"hare\", like in the mentioned German etymological dictionary of the French language a possible misprint of \"harer\" = \"har/ass/er\" = \"harasser\" is plausible or cannot be excluded. In those dictionaries the relationship with \"harassment\" were an interpretation of the interjection \"hare\" as \"to urge a dog to attack', despite the fact that it should indicate a shout to come and not to go (\"hare\" = \"hara\" = \"here\"; cf. above). The American Heritage Dictionary prudently indicates this origin only as possible.\n\nElectronic harassment is the unproven belief of the use of electromagnetic waves to harass a victim. Psychologists have identified evidence of auditory hallucinations, delusional disorders, or other mental disorders in online communities supporting those who claim to be targeted.\n\nLandlord harassment is the willing creation, by a landlord or his agents, of conditions that are uncomfortable for one or more tenants in order to induce willing abandonment of a rental contract. Such a strategy is often sought because it avoids costly legal expenses and potential problems with eviction. This kind of activity is common in regions where rent control laws exist, but which do not allow the direct extension of rent-controlled prices from one tenancy to the subsequent tenancy, thus allowing landlords to set higher prices. Landlord harassment carries specific legal penalties in some jurisdictions, but enforcement can be very difficult or even impossible in many circumstances. However, when a crime is committed in the process and motives similar to those described above are subsequently proven in court, then those motives may be considered an aggravating factor in many jurisdictions, thus subjecting the offender(s) to a stiffer sentence.\n\nMobile harassment refers to the sending of any type of text message, photo message, video message, or voicemail from a mobile phone that threatens, torments, or humiliates the recipient of these messages. It is a form of cyber bullying.\n\nHarassment directs multiple repeating obscenities and derogatory comments at specific individuals focusing, for example, on the targets' race, religion, gender, nationality, disability, or sexual orientation. This often occurs in chat rooms, through newsgroups, and by sending hate e-mail to interested parties. This may also include stealing photos of the victim and their families, doctoring these photos in offensive ways, and then posting them on social media with the aim of causing emotional distress (see cyberbullying, cyberstalking, hate crime, online predator, and stalking).\n\nUnfair treatment conducted by law officials, including but not limited to excessive force, profiling, threats, coercion, and racial, ethnic, religious, gender/sexual, age, or other forms of discrimination.\n\nPower harassment is harassment or unwelcome attention of a political nature, often occurring in the environment of a workplace including hospitals, schools and universities. It includes a range of behavior from mild irritation and annoyances to serious abuses which can even involve forced activity beyond the boundaries of the job description. Power harassment is considered a form of illegal discrimination and is a form of political and psychological abuse, and bullying.\n\nThis is humiliating, intimidating or abusive behavior which is often difficult to detect, leaving no evidence other than victim reports or complaints. This characteristically lowers a person’s self-esteem or causes one to have overwhelming torment. This can take the form of verbal comments, engineered episodes of intimidation, aggressive actions or repeated gestures. Falling into this category is workplace harassment by individuals or groups mobbing.\n\nCommunity-based psychological harassment, meanwhile, is stalking by a group against an individual using repeated distractions that the individual is sensitized to. Media reports of large numbers of coordinated groups stalking individual stalking victims, including a press interview given by an active duty police lieutenant, have described this community-based harassment as gang stalking.\n\nThe targeting of an individual because of their race or ethnicity. The harassment may include words, deeds, and actions that are specifically designed to make the target feel degraded due to their race or ethnicity.\n\nVerbal, psychological or physical harassment is used against targets because they choose to practice a specific religion. Religious harassment can also include forced and involuntary conversions.\n\nSexual harassment is an offensive or humiliating behaviour that is related to a person's sex. It can be an subtle and overt sexual nature of a person (sexual annoyance), implied sexual conditions of a job (sexual coercion), etc. It can happen anywhere, but is most common in the workplace, schools, and the military. It involves unwanted and unwelcome words, deeds, actions, gestures, symbols, or behaviours of a sexual nature that make the target feel uncomfortable. Women are substantially more likely to be affected than men. The main focus of groups working against sexual harassment has been the protection of women, but in recent years awareness has grown of the need to protect LGBTQ, men and transgender people also.\n\nWorkplace harassment is the offensive, belittling or threatening behavior directed at an individual worker or a group of workers.\n\nRecently, matters of workplace harassment have gained interest among practitioners and researchers as it is becoming one of the most sensitive areas of effective workplace management. In Oriental countries, it attracted lots of attention from researchers and governments since the 1980s, because a significant source of work stress is associated with aggressive behaviors in the workplace. Under occupational health and safety laws around the world, workplace harassment and workplace bullying are identified as being core psychosocial hazards.\n\nHarassment, under the laws of the United States, is defined as any repeated or continuing un-consented contact that serves no useful purpose beyond creating alarm, annoyance, or emotional distress. In 1964, the United States Congress passed Title VII of the Civil Rights Act which prohibited discrimination at work on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin and sex. This later became the legal basis for early harassment law. The practice of developing workplace guidelines prohibiting harassment was pioneered in 1969, when the U.S. Department of Defense drafted a Human Goals Charter, establishing a policy of equal respect for both sexes. In \"Meritor Savings Bank v. Vinson,\" : the U.S. Supreme Court recognized harassment suits against employers for promoting a sexually hostile work environment. In 2006, President George W. Bush signed a law which prohibited the transmission of annoying messages over the Internet (\"aka\" spamming) without disclosing the sender's true identity.\n\nThe LAD prohibits employers from discriminating in any job-related action, including recruitment, interviewing, hiring, promotions, discharge, compensation and the terms, conditions and privileges of employment on the basis of any of the law's specified protected categories. These protected categories are race, creed, color, national origin, nationality, ancestry, age, sex (including pregnancy and sexual harassment), marital status, domestic partnership status, affectional or sexual orientation, atypical hereditary cellular or blood trait, genetic information, liability for military service, or mental or physical disability, including HIV/AIDS and related illnesses. The LAD prohibits intentional discrimination based on any of these characteristics. Intentional discrimination may take the form of differential treatment or statements and conduct that reflect discriminatory animus or bias.\n\nIn 1984, the Canadian Human Rights Act prohibited sexual harassment in workplaces under federal jurisdiction.\n\nIn the UK, there are a number of laws protecting people from harassment, including the Protection from Harassment Act 1997 and the Criminal Justice and Public Order Act 1994.\n\n"}
{"id": "6999780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6999780", "title": "History of terrorism", "text": "History of terrorism\n\nThe history of terrorism is a history of well-known and historically significant individuals, entities, and incidents associated, whether rightly or wrongly, with terrorism. Scholars agree that terrorism is a disputed term, and very few of those labeled terrorists describe themselves as such. It is common for opponents in a violent conflict to describe the other side as terrorists or as practicing terrorism.\n\nDepending on how broadly the term is defined, the roots and practice of terrorism can be traced at least to the 1st-century AD Sicarii Zealots, though some dispute whether the group, which assassinated collaborators with Roman rule in the province of Judea, was in fact terrorist. The first use in English of the term 'terrorism' occurred during the French Revolution's Reign of Terror, when the Jacobins, who ruled the revolutionary state, employed violence, including mass executions by guillotine, to compel obedience to the state and intimidate regime enemies. The association of the term only with state violence and intimidation lasted until the mid-19th century, when it began to be associated with non-governmental groups. Anarchism, often in league with rising nationalism and anti-monarchism, was the most prominent ideology linked with terrorism. Near the end of the 19th century, anarchist groups or individuals committed assassinations of a Russian Tsar and a U.S. President.\n\nIn the 20th century, terrorism continued to be associated with a vast array of anarchist, socialist, fascist and nationalist groups, many of them engaged in 'third world' anti-colonial struggles. Some scholars also labeled as terrorist the systematic internal violence and intimidation practiced by states such as the Stalinist Soviet Union and Nazi Germany.\n\nThough many have been proposed, there is no consensus definition of the term \"terrorism.\" This in part derives from the fact that the term is politically and emotionally charged, \"a word with intrinsically negative connotations that is generally applied to one's enemies and opponents.\"\n\nThe term terrorist is believed to have originated during the Reign of Terror (September 5, 1793July 28, 1794) in France. It was a period of eleven months during the French Revolution when the ruling Jacobins employed violence, including mass executions by guillotine, in order to intimidate the regime's enemies and compel obedience to the state. The Jacobins, most famously Robespierre, sometimes referred to themselves as \"terrorists\". Some modern scholars, however, do not consider the Reign of Terror a form of terrorism, in part because it was carried out by the French state.\n\nScholars dispute whether the roots of terrorism date back to the 1st century and the Sicarii Zealots, to the 11th century and the Al-Hashshashin, to the 19th century and the Fenian Brotherhood and Narodnaya Volya, or to other eras. The Sicarii and the Hashshashin are described below, while the Fenian Brotherhood and Narodnaya Volya are discussed in the 19th Century sub-section. Other pre-Reign of Terror historical events sometimes associated with terrorism include the Gunpowder Plot, an attempt to destroy the English Parliament in 1605.\n\nDuring the 1st century CE, the Jewish Zealots in Judaea Province rebelled, killing prominent collaborators with Roman rule. In 6 CE, according to contemporary historian Josephus, Judas of Galilee formed a small and more extreme offshoot of the Zealots, the Sicarii (\"dagger men\"). Their efforts were also directed against Jewish \"collaborators,\" including temple priests, Sadducees, Herodians, and other wealthy elites. According to Josephus, the Sicarii would hide short daggers under their cloaks, mingle with crowds at large festivals, murder their victims, and then disappear into the panicked crowds. Their most successful assassination was of the High Priest of Israel Jonathan.\n\nIn the late 11th century, the Hashshashin (a.k.a. the Assassins) arose, an offshoot of the Isma'ili sect of Shia Muslims. Led by Hassan-i Sabbah and opposed to Fatimid rule, the Hashshashin militia seized Alamut and other fortress strongholds across Persia. Hashshashin forces were too small to challenge enemies militarily, so they assassinated city governors and military commanders in order to create alliances with militarily powerful neighbors. For example, they killed Janah al-Dawla, ruler of Homs, to please Ridwan of Aleppo, and assassinated Mawdud, Seljuk emir of Mosul, as a favor to the regent of Damascus. The Hashshashin also carried out assassinations as retribution. Under some definitions of terrorism, such assassinations do not qualify as terrorism, since killing a political leader does not intimidate political enemies or inspire revolt.\n\nThe Sons of Liberty was a clandestine group that formed in Boston and New York City in the 1770s. It had a political agenda of independence of Britain's American colonies. The groups engaged in several acts that could be considered terroristic and used the deeds for propaganda purposes.\n\nOn November 5, 1605, a group of conspirators led by Robert Catesby attempted to destroy the English Parliament on its State Opening by King James I. They planned in secret to detonate a large quantity of gunpowder placed beneath the Palace of Westminster. The gunpowder was procured and placed by Guy Fawkes. The group intended to enact a coup by killing King James I and the members of both houses of Parliament. The conspirators planned to make one of the king's children a puppet monarch and then restore the Catholic faith to England. The conspirator leased a coal cellar beneath the House of Lords and began stockpiling gunpowder in 1604. As well as its primary targets, it would have killed hundreds, if not thousands, of Londoners – the most devastating act of terrorism in Britain's history, plunging the nation into a religious war. English spymasters uncovered the plot and caught Guy Fawkes with the gunpowder beneath Parliament. The other conspirators fled to Holbeach in Staffordshire. A shoot out on November 8 with authorities led to the deaths of Robert Catesby, Thomas Percy and the brothers Christopher and John Wright. The rest were captured. Fawkes and seven others were tried and executed in January 1606. The planned attack has become known as the Gunpowder Plot and is commemorated in Britain every November 5 with fireworks displays and large bonfires with effigies of Guy Fawkes and the Pope are often burned. Comparisons are often drawn between gunpowder plot and modern religious terrorism, such as the attacks in the US by Islamic terrorists on 9/11 2001.\n\nTerrorism was associated with state terror and the Reign of Terror in France, until the mid-19th century when the term also began to be associated with non-governmental groups. Anarchism, often in league with rising nationalism, was the most prominent ideology linked with terrorism. Attacks by various anarchist groups led to the assassination of a Russian Tsar and a U.S. President.\n\nIn the 19th century, powerful, stable, and affordable explosives were developed, global integration reached unprecedented levels and often radical political movements became widely influential. The use of dynamite, in particular, inspired anarchists and was central to their strategic thinking.\n\nOne of the earliest groups to utilize modern terrorist techniques was arguably the Fenian Brotherhood and its offshoot the Irish Republican Brotherhood. They were both founded in 1858 as revolutionary, militant nationalist and Catholic groups, both in Ireland and amongst the emigre community in the United States.\n\nAfter centuries of continued British rule, and influenced most recently from the devastating effects of the 1840s Irish potato famine, these revolutionary fraternal organisations were founded with the aim of establishing an independent republic in Ireland, and began carrying out frequent acts of violence in metropolitan Britain to achieve their aims through intimidation.\n\nIn 1867, members of the movement's leadership were arrested and convicted for organizing an armed uprising. While being transferred to prison, the police van in which they were being transported was intercepted and a police sergeant was shot in the rescue. A bolder rescue attempt of another Irish radical incarcerated in Clerkenwell Prison, was made in the same year: an explosion to demolish the prison wall killed 12 people and caused many injuries. The bombing enraged the British public, causing a panic over the Fenian threat.\n\nAlthough the Irish Republican Brotherhood condemned the Clerkenwell Outrage as a \"dreadful and deplorable event\", the organisation returned to bombings in Britain in 1881 to 1885, with the Fenian dynamite campaign, beginning one of the first modern terror campaigns. Instead of earlier forms of terrorism based on political assassination, this campaign used modern, timed explosives with the express aim of sowing fear in the very heart of metropolitan Britain, in order to achieve political gains – (Prime minister William Ewart Gladstone was partly influenced to disestablish the Anglican Church in Ireland as a gesture by the Clerkenwell bombing). The campaign also took advantage of the greater global integration of the times, and the bombing was largely funded and organised by the Fenian Brotherhood in the United States.\n\nThe first police unit to combat terrorism was established in 1883 by the Metropolitan Police, initially as a small section of the Criminal Investigation Department. It was known as the Special Irish Branch, and was trained in counter terrorism techniques to combat the Irish Republican Brotherhood. The unit's name was changed to Special Branch as the unit's remit steadily widened over the years.\n\nThe concept of \"propaganda of the deed\" (or \"propaganda by the deed\", from the French \"propagande par le fait\") advocated physical violence or other provocative public acts against political enemies in order to inspire mass rebellion or revolution. One of the first individuals associated with this concept, the Italian revolutionary Carlo Pisacane (18181857), wrote in his \"Political Testament\" (1857) that \"ideas spring from deeds and not the other way around\". Anarchist Mikhail Bakunin (18141876), in his \"Letters to a Frenchman on the Present Crisis\" (1870) stated that \"we must spread our principles, not with words but with deeds, for this is the most popular, the most potent, and the most irresistible form of propaganda\". The French anarchist Paul Brousse (18441912) popularized the phrase \"propaganda of the deed\"; in 1877 he cited as examples the 1871 Paris Commune and a workers' demonstration in Berne provocatively using the socialist red flag. By the 1880s, the slogan had begun to be used to refer to bombings, regicides and tyrannicides. Reflecting this new understanding of the term, in 1895 Italian anarchist Errico Malatesta described \"propaganda by the deed\" (which he opposed the use of) as violent communal insurrections meant to ignite an imminent revolution.\n\nFounded in Russia in 1878, Narodnaya Volya (\"Народная Воля\" in Russian; \"People's Will\" in English) was a revolutionary anarchist group inspired by Sergei Nechayev and by \"propaganda by the deed\" theorist Pisacane. The group developed ideas—such as targeted killing of the \"leaders of oppression\"—that would become the hallmark of subsequent violence by small non-state groups, and they were convinced that the developing technologies of the age—such as the invention of dynamite, which they were the first anarchist group to make widespread use of—enabled them to strike directly and with discrimination. Attempting to spark a popular revolt against Russian Tsardom, the group killed prominent political figures by gun and bomb, and on March 13, 1881, assassinated Russia's Tsar Alexander II. The assassination, by a bomb that also killed the Tsar's attacker, Ignacy Hryniewiecki, failed to spark the expected revolution, and an ensuing crackdown brought the group to an end.\n\nIndividual Europeans also engaged in politically motivated violence. For example, in 1893, Auguste Vaillant, a French anarchist, threw a bomb in the French Chamber of Deputies in which one person was injured. In reaction to Vaillant's bombing and other bombings and assassination attempts, the French government restricted freedom of the press by passing a set of laws that became pejoratively known as the \"lois scélérates\" (\"villainous laws\"). In the years 1894 to 1896 anarchists killed President of France Marie Francois Carnot, Prime Minister of Spain Antonio Cánovas del Castillo, and the Empress of Austria-Hungary, Elisabeth of Bavaria.\n\nPrior to the American Civil War, abolitionist John Brown (18001859) advocated and practiced armed opposition to slavery, leading several attacks between 1856 and 1859, the most famous attack was launched in 1859 against the armory at Harpers Ferry. Local forces soon recaptured the fort and Brown was tried and executed for treason. A biographer of Brown has written that Brown's purpose was \"to force the nation into a new political pattern by creating terror.\" In 2009, the 150th anniversary of Brown's death, prominent news publications debated over whether or not Brown should be considered a terrorist.\n\nAfter the Civil War, on December 24, 1865, six Confederate veterans created the Ku Klux Klan (KKK). The KKK used violence, lynching, murder and acts of intimidation such as cross burning to oppress African Americans in particular, and it created a sensation with its masked forays' dramatic nature.\n\nThe group's politics were white supremacist, anti-Semitic, racist, anti-Catholic, and nativist. A KKK founder boasted that it was a nationwide organization of 550,000 men and that it could muster 40,000 Klansmen within five days' notice, but as a secret or \"invisible\" group with no membership rosters, it was difficult to judge the Klan's actual size. The KKK has at times been politically powerful, and at various times it controlled the governments of Tennessee, Oklahoma, Indiana and South Carolina, as well as several legislatures in the South.\n\nSeveral nationalist groups used violence against an Ottoman Empire in apparent decline. One was the Armenian Revolutionary Federation (in Armenian \"Dashnaktsuthium\", or \"The Federation\"), a revolutionary movement founded in Tiflis (Russian Transcaucasia) in 1890 by Christapor Mikaelian. Many members had been part of Narodnaya Volya or the Hunchakian Revolutionary Party. The group published newsletters, smuggled arms, and hijacked buildings as it sought to bring in European intervention that would force the Ottoman Empire to surrender control of its Armenian territories. On August 24, 1896, 17-year-old Babken Suni led twenty-six members in capturing the Imperial Ottoman Bank in Constantinople. The group demanded European intervention in order to stop the Hamidian massacres and the creation of an Armenian state, but backed down on a threat to blow up the bank. An ensuing security crackdown destroyed the group.\n\nAlso inspired by Narodnaya Volya, the Internal Macedonian Revolutionary Organization (IMRO) was a revolutionary movement founded in 1893 by Hristo Tatarchev in the Ottoman-controlled Macedonian territories. Through assassinations and by provoking uprisings, the group sought to coerce the Ottoman government into creating a Macedonian nation. On July 20, 1903, the group incited the Ilinden uprising in the Ottoman villayet of Monastir. The IMRO declared the town's independence and sent demands to the European Powers that all of Macedonia be freed. The demands were ignored and Turkish troops crushed the 27,000 rebels in the town two months later.\n\nRevolutionary nationalism continued to motivate political violence in the 20th century, much of it directed against western colonial powers. The Irish Republican Army campaigned against the British in the 1910s and inspired the Zionist groups Hagannah, Irgun and Lehi to fight the British throughout the 1930s in the Palestine mandate. Like the IRA and the Zionist groups, the Muslim Brotherhood in Egypt used bombings and assassinations to try to free territory from British control.\n\nThe women's suffrage movement in the UK also committed terrorist attacks prior to the First World War. There were three phases of WSPU militancy in 1905, 1908, 1913; including civil disobedience, destruction of public property and arson and bombings. Most notably, The WSPU burned down Government Minister, and future Prime Minister David Lloyd George's house (despite his support for women's suffrage).\n\nPolitical assassinations continued, resulting in the assassinations of King Umberto I of Italy, killed in July 1900 and US President William McKinley in September 1901. Political violence became especially widespread in Imperial Russia, and several ministers were killed in the opening years of the 20th century. The highest-ranking was prime minister Pyotr Stolypin, killed in 1911 by Dmitry Bogrov, a spy for the secret police in several anarchist, socialist and other revolutionary groups.\n\nOn June 28, 1914, Gavrilo Princip, one of a group of six assassins, shot and killed Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria, heir to the Austro-Hungarian throne, and his wife, Sophie, Duchess of Hohenberg, in Sarajevo, the capital of the Condominion of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The assassinations produced widespread shock across Europe, setting in motion a series of events which led to World War I.\n\nIn the 1930s, the Nazi regime in Germany and Stalin's rule in the Soviet Union practiced state terror systematically and on a massive and unprecedented scale. Meanwhile, the Stalin regime branded its opponents with the label \"terrorist\".\n\nIn an action called the Easter Rising or Easter Rebellion, on April 24, 1916, members of the Irish Volunteers and the Irish Citizen Army seized the Dublin General Post Office and several other buildings, proclaiming an independent Irish Republic. The rebellion failed militarily but was a success for physical force Irish republicanism, leaders of the uprising becoming Irish heroes after their eventual execution by the British government.\n\nShortly after the rebellion, Michael Collins and others founded the Irish Republican Army (IRA), which from 1916 to 1923 carried out numerous attacks against symbols of British power. For example, it attacked over 300 police stations simultaneously just before Easter 1920, and, in November 1920, publicly killed a dozen police officers and burned down the Liverpool docks and warehouses, an action that became known as Bloody Sunday.\n\nAfter years of warfare, London agreed to the 1921 Anglo-Irish treaty creating a free Irish state encompassing 26 of the island's 32 counties. IRA tactics were an inspiration to other groups, including the Palestine Mandate's Zionists, and to British special operations during World War II.\n\nThe IRA are considered by some the innovators of modern terrorism as the British would replicate and build upon the tactics used against by the IRA in World War II. Tony Geraghty in \"The Irish War: The Hidden Conflict Between the IRA and British Intelligence\" wrote:\n\nFrom January 1939 to March 1940, the Irish Republican Army (IRA) carried out a campaign of bombing and sabotage against the civil, economic, and military infrastructure of Britain. It was known as the S-Plan or Sabotage Campaign. During the campaign, the IRA carried out almost 300 attacks and acts of sabotage in Britain, killing seven people and injuring 96. Most of the casualties occurred in the Coventry bombing on 25 August 1939.\n\nFollowing the 1929 Hebron massacre of 67 Jews in the British Mandate of Palestine, the Zionist militia Haganah transformed itself into a paramilitary force. In 1931, however, the more militant Irgun broke away from Haganah, objecting to Haganah's policy of restraint. Founded by Avraham Tehomi, Irgun sought to aggressively defend Jews from Arab attacks. Its tactic of attacking Arab communities, including the bombing of a crowded Arab market, is considered among the first examples of terrorism directed against civilians.\nAfter the British, in the White Paper of 1939, placed severe restrictions on Jewish immigration into Palestine and set forth a vision of a single state with an Arab majority, the Irgun began a campaign against British rule by assassinating police, capturing British government buildings and arms, and sabotaging British railways. Irgun's best-known attack targeted the King David Hotel in Jerusalem, parts of which housed the headquarters of the British civil and military administrations. The bombing, in 1946, killed ninety-one people and injured forty-six, making it the most deadly attack during the Mandate era. This attack was sharply condemned by the organized leadership of the Yishuv, and further widened the gulf between David Ben-Gurion's Hagana and Begin's Irgun. Following the bombing, Ben-Gurion called Irgun an \"enemy of the Jewish people\". After the founding of the state of Israel in 1948, Menachem Begin (Irgun leader from 1943 to 1948) transformed the group into the political party Herut, which later became part of Likud in an alliance with the center-right Gahal, Liberal Party, Free Centre, National List, and Movement for Greater Israel. On the 60th anniversary of the bombing, a plaque was unveiled at the hotel.\n\nOperating in the British Mandate of Palestine in the 1930s, Izz ad-Din al-Qassam (1882–1935) organized and established the Black Hand, a Palestinian nationalist militia. He recruited and arranged military training for peasants, and by 1935 had enlisted between 200 and 800 men. Al-Qassam obtained a fatwa from Shaykh Badr al-Din al-Taji al-Hasani, the Mufti of Damascus, authorizing armed resistance against the British and against the Jews of Palestine. Black Hand cells were equipped with bombs and firearms, which they used to kill Jews. Although al-Qassam's revolt was unsuccessful in his lifetime, many organizations gained inspiration from his example. He became a popular hero and an inspiration to subsequent Arab militants, who in the 193639 Arab revolt, called themselves Qassamiyun, followers of al-Qassam. The Izz ad-Din al-Qassam Brigades, the military wing of Hamas, as well as the rockets they developed, take their names after Qassam.\n\nLehi (\"Lohamei Herut Yisrael\", a.k.a. \"Freedom Fighters for Israel\", a.k.a. the Stern Gang) was a revisionist Zionist group that splintered off from Irgun in 1940. Abraham Stern formed Lehi from disaffected Irgun members after Irgun agreed to a truce with Britain in 1940. Lehi assassinated prominent politicians as a strategy. For example, on November 6, 1944, Lord Moyne, the British Minister of State for the Middle East, was assassinated. The act was controversial among Zionist militant groups, Hagannah sympathizing with the British and launching a massive man-hunt against members of Lehi and Irgun. After Israel's 1948 founding, Lehi formally dissolved and its members became integrated into the Israeli Defense Forces.\n\nSome of the tactics of the guerrilla, partisan, and resistance movements organised and supplied by the Allies during World War II, according to historian M. R. D. Foot, can be considered terrorist. Colin Gubbins, a key leader within the British Special Operations Executive (SOE), made sure the organization drew much of its inspiration from the IRA.\n\nOn the eve of D-Day, the SOE organised with the French Resistance the complete destruction of the rail and communication infrastructure of western France the largest coordinated attack of its kind in history Allied supreme commander Dwight Eisenhower later wrote that \"the disruption of enemy rail communications, the harassing of German road moves and the continual and increasing strain placed on German security services throughout occupied Europe by the organised forces of Resistance, played a very considerable part in our complete and final victory\".\n\nThe SOE also conducted operations in Africa, the Middle East and the Far East.\n\nThe work of the SOE received recognition in 2009 with a memorial in London, however there are differing views on the morality of the SOE's actions; the British military historian John Keegan wrote:\nAfter World War II, largely successful anti-colonial campaigns were launched against the collapsing European empires, as many World War II resistance groups became militantly anti-colonial. The Viet Minh, for example, which had fought against the Japanese, now fought against the returning French colonists. In the Middle East, the Muslim Brotherhood used bombings and assassinations against British rule in Egypt. Also during the 1950s, the National Liberation Front (FLN) in French-controlled Algeria and the EOKA in British-controlled Cyprus waged guerrilla and open war against colonial powers.\nIn the 1960s, inspired by Mao's Chinese revolution of 1949 and Castro's Cuban revolution of 1959, national independence movements often fused nationalist and socialist impulses. This was the case with Spain's ETA, the Front de libération du Québec, and the Palestine Liberation Organization.\n\nIn the late 1960s and 1970s violent left wing and revolutionary groups were on the rise, sympathizing with Third World guerrilla movements and seeking to spark anti-capitalist revolts. Such groups included the PKK in Turkey, Armenia's ASALA, the Japanese Red Army, the German Red Army Faction, the Italian Red Brigades, and, in the United States, the Weather Underground. Nationalist groups such as the Provisional IRA and the Tamil tigers also began operations at this time.\n\nThroughout the Cold War, both the United States and the Soviet Union made extensive use of violent nationalist organizations to carry on a war by proxy. For example, Soviet and Chinese military advisers provided training and support to the Viet Cong during the Vietnam War. The Soviet Union also provided military support to the PLO during the Israeli–Palestinian conflict, and Fidel Castro during the Cuban Revolution. The United States funded groups such as the Contras in Nicaragua. Many violent Islamic militants of the late 20th and early 21st century had been funded in the 1980s by the United States and the UK because they were fighting the USSR in Afghanistan.\n\nFounded in 1928 as a nationalist social-welfare and political movement in British-controlled Egypt, the Muslim Brotherhood began to attack British soldiers and police stations in the late 1940s. Founded and led by Hassan al-Banna, it also assassinated politicians seen as collaborating with British rule, most prominently Egyptian Prime Minister Nuqrashi in 1948. In 1952 a military coup overthrew British rule, and shortly thereafter the Muslim Brotherhood went underground in the face of a massive crackdown. Though sometimes banned or otherwise oppressed, the group continues to exist in present-day Egypt.\n\nThe National Liberation Front (FLN) was a nationalist group founded in French-controlled Algeria in 1954. The group became a large-scale resistance movement against French rule, with terrorism only part of its operations. The FLN leadership took inspiration from the Viet Minh rebels who had made French troops withdraw from Vietnam. The FLN was one of the first anti-colonial groups to use large-scale compliance violence. The FLN would establish control over a rural village and coerce its peasants to execute any French loyalists among them. On the night of October 31, 1954, in a coordinated wave of seventy bombings and shootings known as the Toussaint attacks, the FLN attacked French military installations and the homes of Algerian loyalists. In the following year, the group gained significant support for an uprising against loyalists in Philippeville. This uprising, and the heavy-handed response by the French, convinced many Algerians to support the FLN and the independence movement. The FLN eventually secured Algerian independence from France in 1962, and transformed itself into Algeria's ruling party.\nFatah was organized as a Palestinian nationalist group in 1954, and exists today as a political party in Palestine. In 1967 it joined the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO), an umbrella organization for secular Palestinian nationalist groups formed in 1964. The PLO began its own armed operations in 1965. The PLO's membership comprises separate and possibly contending paramilitary and political factions, the largest of which include Fatah, the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine (PFLP), and the Democratic Front for the Liberation of Palestine (DFLP). Factions of the PLO have advocated or carried out acts of terrorism. Abu Iyad organized the Fatah splinter group Black September in 1970; the group is arguably best known for seizing eleven Israeli athletes as hostages at the September 1972 Summer Olympics in Munich. All the athletes and five Black September operatives died during a gun battle with the West German police in what later became known as the Munich massacre. The PFLP, founded in 1967 by George Habash, on September 6, 1970 hijacked three international passenger planes, landing two of them in Jordan and blowing up the third. Fatah leader and PLO chairman Yasser Arafat publicly renounced terrorism in December 1988 on behalf of the PLO, but Israel has stated that it has proof that Arafat continued to sponsor terrorism until his death in 2004.\n\nIn the 1974 Ma'alot massacre 22 Israeli high-school students, aged 14 to 16 from Safed were killed by three members of the Democratic Front for the Liberation of Palestine. Before reaching the school, the trio shot and killed two Arab women, a Jewish man, his pregnant wife, and their 4-year-old son, and wounded several others.\n\nThe People's Mujahedin of Iran (PMOI) or Mujahedin-e Khalq (founded in 1965), is a socialist Islamic group that has fought Iran's government since the Khomeini revolution. The group originated to oppose capitalism and what it perceived as western exploitation of Iran under the Shah. The group would go on to play an important role in the Shah's overthrow but was unable to capitalize on this in the following power-vacuum. The group is suspected of having a membership of between 10,000 and 30,000. The group renounced violence in 2001 but remains a proscribed terror-organization in Iran and in the United States. The EU, however, has removed the group from its terror list. The PMOI is accused of supporting other groups such as the Jundallah.\n\nIn 1975 Hagop Tarakchian and Hagop Hagopian, with the help of sympathetic Palestinians, founded the Armenian Secret Army for the Liberation of Armenia (ASALA) in Beirut during the Lebanese Civil War. At the time Turkey was in political turmoil, and Hagopian believed that the time was right to avenge the Armenians who died during the Armenian Genocide and to force the Turkish government to cede the territory of Wilsonian Armenia to establish a nation state also incorporating the Armenian SSR. In its Esenboga airport attack, on 7 August 1982, two ASALA rebels opened fire on civilians in a waiting room at the Esenboga International Airport in Ankara. Nine people died and 82 were injured. By 1986, the ASALA had virtually ceased all attacks.\n\nThe \"Partiya Karkerên Kurdistan\" (Kurdistan Workers Party or PKK) was established in Turkey in 1978 as a Kurdish nationalist party. Founder Abdullah Ocalan was inspired by the Maoist theory of people's war, and like Algeria's FLN he advocated the use of compliance terror. The group seeks to create an independent Kurdish state consisting of parts of south-eastern Turkey, north-eastern Iraq, north-eastern Syria and north-western Iran. In 1984 the PKK transformed itself into a paramilitary organisation and launched conventional attacks as well as bombings against Turkish governmental installations. In 1999 Turkish authorities captured Öcalan. He was tried in Turkey and sentenced to life imprisonment. The PKK has since gone through a series of name changes.\n\nFounded in 1959 and still active, the Euskadi Ta Askatasuna (or ETA (Basque for \"Basque Homeland and Freedom\", pronounced )) is an armed Basque nationalist separatist organization. Formed in response to General Francisco Franco's suppression of the Basque language and culture, ETA evolved from an advocacy group for traditional Basque culture into an armed Marxist group demanding Basque independence. Many ETA victims are government officials, the group's first known victim a police chief killed in 1968. In 1973 ETA operatives killed Franco's apparent successor, Admiral Luis Carrero Blanco, by planting an underground bomb under his habitual parking spot outside a Madrid church. In 1995, an ETA car bomb nearly killed Jose Maria Aznar, then the leader of the conservative Popular Party, and the same year investigators disrupted a plot to assassinate King Juan Carlos. Efforts by Spanish governments to negotiate with the ETA have failed, and in 2003 the Spanish Supreme Court banned the Batasuna political party, which was determined to be the political arm of ETA.\n\nThe Provisional Irish Republican Army (IRA) was an Irish nationalist movement founded in December 1969 when several militants including Seán Mac Stíofáin broke off from the Official IRA and formed a new organization. Led by Mac Stíofáin in the early 1970s and by a group around Gerry Adams since the late 1970s, the Provisional IRA sought to create an all-island Irish state. Between 1969 and 1997, during a period known as the Troubles, the group conducted an armed campaign, including bombings, gun attacks, assassinations and even a mortar attack on 10 Downing Street. On July 21, 1972, in an attack later known as Bloody Friday, the group set off twenty-two bombs, killing nine and injuring 130. On July 28, 2005, the Provisional IRA Army Council announced an end to its armed campaign. The IRA is believed to have been a major exporter of arms to and provided military training to groups such as the FARC in Colombia and the PLO. In the case of the latter there has been a long-held solidarity movement, which is evident by the many murals around Belfast.\n\nThe Red Army Faction (RAF) was a New Left group founded in 1968 by Andreas Baader and Ulrike Meinhof in West Germany. Inspired by Che Guevara, Maoist socialism, and the Vietcong, the group sought to raise awareness of the Vietnamese and Palestinian independence movements through kidnappings, taking embassies hostage, bank robberies, assassinations, bombings, and attacks on U.S. air bases. The group is best known for 1977's \"German Autumn\". The buildup leading to German Autumn began on April 7, when the RAF shot Federal Prosecutor Siegfried Buback. On July 30, it shot Jürgen Ponto, then head of the Dresdner Bank, in a failed kidnapping attempt; on September 5, the group kidnapped Hanns Martin Schleyer (a former SS officer and an important West German industrialist), executing him on October 19. The hijacking of the Lufthansa jetliner \"Landshut\" by the PFLP, a Palestinian group, is also considered to be part of German Autumn.\n\nThe Red Brigades were a New Left group founded by Renato Curcio and Alberto Franceschini in 1970 that sought to create a revolutionary state. The group carried out a series of bombings and kidnappings until Curcio and Franceschini were arrested in the mid-1970s. Their successor as leader, Mario Moretti, led the group toward more militarized and violent actions, including the kidnapping of former Prime Minister Aldo Moro on March 16, 1978. Moro was killed 56 days later. This led to an all-out assault on the group by Italian law enforcement and security forces and condemnation from Italian left-wing radicals and even imprisoned ex-leaders of the Brigades. The group lost most of its social support and public opinion turned strongly against it. In 1984, the group split, the majority faction becoming the Communist Combatant Party (Red Brigades-PCC) and the minority faction reconstituting itself as the Union of Combatant Communists (Red Brigades-UCC). Members of these groups carried out a handful of assassinations before almost all were arrested in 1989.\n\nThe \"Front de libération du Québec\" (FLQ) was a Marxist nationalist group that sought to create an independent, socialist Quebec. Georges Schoeters founded the group in 1963 and was inspired by Che Guevara and Algeria's FLN. The group was accused of bombings, kidnappings, and assassinations of politicians, soldiers, and civilians. On October 5, 1970, the FLQ kidnapped James Richard Cross, the British Trade Commissioner, and on October 10, the Minister of Labor and Vice-Premier of Quebec, Pierre Laporte. Laporte was killed a week later. After these events support for violence in order to attain Quebec's independence declined, and support increased for the Parti Québécois, which took power in Quebec in 1976.\n\nIn Colombia several paramilitary and guerrilla groups formed during the 1960s and afterwards. In 1983, President Fernando Belaúnde Terry of Peru described armed attacks on his nation's anti-narcotics police as \"narcoterrorism\", i.e., which refers to \"violence waged by drug producers to extract political concessions from the government.\" Pablo Escobar's ruthless violence in his dealings with the Colombian and Peruvian governments has been probably two of the best known and best documented examples of narcoterrorism. Paramilitary groups associated with narcoterrorism include the Ejército de Liberación Nacional (ELN), the Fuerzas Armadas Revolucionarias de Colombia (FARC), and the Autodefensas Unidas de Colombia (AUC). While the ELN and FARC were originally left wing revolutionary groups and the AUC was originally a right-wing paramilitary, all have conducted numerous attacks on civilians and civilian infrastructure and engaged in the drug trade. The U.S. and some European governments consider them terrorist organizations.\n\nThe Jewish Defense League (JDL) was founded in 1969 by Rabbi Meir Kahane in New York City, with its declared purpose being the protection of Jews from harassment and antisemitism. Federal Bureau of Investigation statistics state that, from 1980 to 1985, 15 attacks which the FBI classified as acts of terrorism were attempted in the U.S. by members of the JDL. The National Consortium for the Study of Terror and Responses to Terrorism states that, during the JDL's first two decades of activity, it was an \"active terrorist organization.\". Kahane later founded the far-right Israeli political party Kach, which was banned from elections in Israel on the ground of racism. The JDL's present-day website condemns all forms of terrorism.\n\nThe \"Fuerzas Armadas de Liberación Nacional\" (FALN, \"Armed Forces of National Liberation\") is a nationalist group founded in Puerto Rico in 1974. Over the decade that followed the group used bombings and targeted killings of civilians and police in pursuit of an independent Puerto Rico. The FALN in 1975 took responsibility for four nearly simultaneous bombings in New York City. The United States Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) has classified the FALN as a terrorist organization.\n\nThe Weather Underground (a.k.a. the Weathermen) began as a militant faction of the leftist Students for a Democratic Society (SDS) organization, and in 1969 took over the organization. Weathermen leaders, inspired by China's Maoists, the Black Panthers, and the 1968 student revolts in France, sought to raise awareness of its revolutionary anti-capitalist and anti-Vietnam War platform by destroying symbols of government power. From 1969 to 1974 the Weathermen bombed corporate offices, police stations, and Washington government sites such as the Pentagon. After the end of the Vietnam War in 1975, most of the group disbanded.\n\nThe Japanese Red Army was founded by Fusako Shigenobu in Japan in 1971 and attempted to overthrow the Japanese government and start a world revolution. Allied with the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine (PFLP), the group committed assassinations, hijacked a commercial Japanese aircraft, and sabotaged a Shell oil refinery in Singapore. On May 30, 1972, Kōzō Okamoto and other group members launched a machine gun and grenade attack at Israel's Lod Airport in Tel Aviv, killing 26 people and injuring 80 others. Two of the three attackers then killed themselves with grenades.\n\nFounded in 1976, the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam, (also called \"LTTE\" or Tamil Tigers) was a militant Tamil nationalist political and paramilitary organization based in northern Sri Lanka. From its founding by Velupillai Prabhakaran, it waged a secessionist resistance campaign that sought to create an independent Tamil state in the northern and eastern regions of Sri Lanka. The conflict originated in measures the majority Sinhalese took that were perceived as attempts to marginalize the Tamil minority. The resistance campaign evolved into the Sri Lankan Civil War, one of the longest-running armed conflicts in Asia. The group carried out many bombings, including an April 21, 1987, car bomb attack at a Colombo bus terminal that killed 110 people. In 2009 the Sri Lankan military launched a major military offensive against the secessionist movement and claimed that it had effectively destroyed the LTTE.\n\nIn Kenya, because of the seeming ongoing failure of the Kenyan African Union to obtain political reforms from the British through peaceful means, radical activists within the KAU set up a splinter group and organised a more militant kind of nationalism. By 1952 The Mau Mau consisted of Kikuyu fighters, along with some Embu and Meru recruits. The Mau Mau carried out attacks on political opponents, loyalist villages, raiding white settler farms and destroying livestock. The British colonial administration declared a state of emergency and British forces were sent to Kenya. The majority of fighting was between loyalist and Mau Mau Kikuyu, so many scholars today now consider it a Kikuyu civil war. The Kenyan Government considers the Mau Mau Uprising a key step towards Kenya's independence from British Imperial rule. The British were accused of using torture and mass executions as part of their efforts to suppress the Mau Mau, though the British forces did have strict orders not to mistreat Mau Mau terrorists.\n\nFounded in 1961, Umkhonto we Sizwe (MK) was the military wing of the African National Congress; it waged a guerrilla campaign against the South African apartheid regime and was responsible for many bombings. MK launched its first guerrilla attacks against government installations on 16 December 1961. The South African government subsequently banned the group after classifying it as a terrorist organization. MK's first leader was Nelson Mandela, who was tried and imprisoned for the group's acts. With the end of apartheid in South Africa, Umkhonto we Sizwe was incorporated into the South African armed forces.\n\nIn the 1980s and 1990s, Islamic militancy in pursuit of religious and political goals increased, many militants drawing inspiration from Iran's 1979 Islamic Revolution. In the 1990s, well-known violent acts that targeted civilians were the World Trade Center bombing by Islamic terrorists on February 27, 1993, the Sarin gas attack on the Tokyo subway by Aum Shinrikyo on March 20, 1995, and the bombing of Oklahoma City's Murrah Federal Building by Timothy McVeigh a month later that same year. This period also saw the rise of what is sometimes categorized as Single issue terrorism. If terrorism is the extension of domestic politics by other means, just as war is for diplomacy, then this represents the extension of pressure groups into violent action. Notable examples that grow in this period are Anti-abortion terrorism and Environmental terrorism.\n\nThe Contras were a counter-revolutionary militia formed in 1979 to oppose Nicaragua's Sandinista government. The Catholic Institute for International Relations asserted the following about contra operating procedures in 1987: \"The record of the contras in the field... is one of consistent and bloody abuse of human rights, of murder, torture, mutilation, rape, arson, destruction and kidnapping.\" Americas Watchsubsequently folded into Human Rights Watchaccused the Contras of targeting health care clinics and health care workers for assassination; kidnapping civilians, torturing civilians; executing civilians, including children, who were captured in combat; raping women; indiscriminately attacking civilians and civilian houses; seizing civilian property; and burning civilian houses in captured towns. The contras disbanded after the election of Violetta Chamorro in 1990.\n\nThe April 19, 1995, Oklahoma City bombing was directed at the U.S. government, according to the prosecutor at the murder trial of Timothy McVeigh, who was convicted of carrying out the crime. The bombing of the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building in downtown Oklahoma City claimed 168 lives and left over 800 people injured. McVeigh, who was convicted of first degree murder and executed, said his motivation was revenge for U.S. government actions at Waco and Ruby Ridge.\n\n659 people died in Lebanon between 1982 and 1986 in 36 suicide attacks directed against American, French and Israeli forces, by 41 individuals with predominantly leftist political beliefs who were adherents of both the Christian and Muslim religions. The 1983 Beirut barracks bombing (by the Islamic Jihad Organization), which killed 241 U.S. and 58 French peacekeepers and six civilians at the peacekeeping barracks in Beirut, was particularly deadly. Hezbollah (\"Party of God\") is an Islamist movement and political party officially founded in Lebanon in 1985, ten years after the outbreak of that country's civil war. Inspired by Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini and the Iranian revolution, the group originally sought an Islamic revolution in Lebanon and has long fought for the withdrawal of Israeli forces from Lebanon. Led by Sheikh Sayyed Hassan Nasrallah since 1992, the group has captured Israeli soldiers and carried out missile attacks and suicide bombings against Israeli targets.\n\nEgyptian Islamic Jihad (a.k.a. \"Al-Gamaa Al-Islamiyya\") is a militant Egyptian Islamist movement dedicated to the establishment of an Islamic state in Egypt. The group was formed in 1980 as an umbrella organization for militant student groups which were formed after the leadership of the Muslim Brotherhood renounced violence. It is led by Omar Abdel-Rahman, who has been accused of participation in the 1993 World Trade Center bombing. In 1981, the group assassinated Egyptian president Anwar Sadat. On November 17, 1997, in what became known as the Luxor massacre, it attacked tourists at the Temple of Hatshepsut (Deir el-Bahri); six men dressed as police officers machine-gunned 58 Japanese and European vacationers and four Egyptians.\n\nOn December 21, 1988, Pan Am Flight 103, a Pan American World Airways flight from London's Heathrow International Airport to New York City's John F. Kennedy International Airport, was destroyed mid flight over the Scottish town of Lockerbie, killing 270 people, including 11 on the ground. On January 31, 2001, Libyan Abdelbaset al-Megrahi was convicted by a panel of three Scottish judges of bombing the flight, and was sentenced to 27 years imprisonment. In 2002, Libya offered financial compensation to victims' families in exchange for lifting of UN and U.S. sanctions. In 2007 Megrahi was granted leave to appeal against his conviction, and in August 2009 was released on compassionate grounds by the Scottish executive due to his terminal cancer.\n\nThe first Palestinian suicide attack took place in 1989 when a member of the Palestinian Islamic Jihad ignited a bomb onboard Tel Aviv bus, killing 16 people. In the early 1990s another group, Hamas, also became well known for suicide bombings. Sheikh Ahmed Yassin, Abdel Aziz al-Rantissi and Mohammad Taha of the Palestinian wing of Egypt's Muslim Brotherhood had created Hamas in 1987, at the beginning of the First Intifada, an uprising against Israeli rule in the Palestinian Territories which mostly consisted of civil disobedience but sometimes escalated into violence. Hamas's militia, the Izz ad-Din al-Qassam Brigades, began its own suicide bombings against Israel in 1993, eventually accounting for about 40% of them. Palestinian militant organizations have been responsible for rocket attacks on Israel, IED attacks, shootings, and stabbings. After winning legislative elections, Hamas since June 2007 has governed the Gaza portion of the Palestinian Territories. Hamas is designated as a terrorist organization by the European Union, Canada, Israel, Japan, and the United States. Australia and the United Kingdom have designated the military wing of Hamas, the Izz ad-Din al-Qassam Brigades, as a terrorist organization. The organization is banned in Jordan. It is not regarded as a terrorist organization by Iran, Russia, Norway, Switzerland, Brazil, Turkey, China, and Qatar. As well as Hamas, the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, Palestinian Islamic Jihad, Palestine Liberation Front, PFLP-General Command, and the Al-Aqsa Martyrs Brigade were all listed as terrorist organizations by the US State Department in the 1990s.\n\nOn February 25, 1994, Baruch Goldstein, an American-born Israeli physician, perpetrated the Cave of the Patriarchs massacre in the city of Hebron, Goldstein shot and killed between 30 and 54 Muslim worshippers inside the Ibrahimi Mosque (within the Cave of the Patriarchs), and wounded another 125 to 150. Goldstein, who was lynched and killed in the mosque, was a supporter of Kach, an Israeli political party founded by Rabbi Meir Kahane that advocated the expulsion of Arabs from Israel and the Palestinian Territories. In the aftermath of the Goldstein attack and Kach statements praising it, Kach was outlawed in Israel. Today, Kach and a breakaway group, Kahane Chai, are considered terrorist organisations by Israel, Canada, the European Union, and the United States. The far-right anti-miscegenation group Lehava, headed by former Kach member Bentzi Gopstein, is politically active inside Israel and its occupied territories.\n\nAum Shinrikyo, now known as Aleph, was a Japanese religious group founded by Shoko Asahara in 1984 as a yogic meditation group. Later, in 1990, Asahara and 24 other members campaigned for election to the House of Representatives under the banner of Shinri-tō (Supreme Truth Party). None were voted in, and the group began to militarize. Between 1990 and 1995, the group attempted several apparently unsuccessful violent attacks using the methods of biological warfare, using botulin toxin and anthrax spores. On June 28, 1994, Aum Shinrikyo members released sarin gas from several sites in the Kaichi Heights neighborhood of Matsumoto, Japan, killing eight and injuring 200 in what became known as the Matsumoto incident. Seven months later, on March 20, 1995, Aum Shinrikyo members released sarin gas in a coordinated attack on five trains in the Tokyo subway system, killing 12 commuters and damaging the health of about 5,000 others in what became known as the subway sarin incident (地下鉄サリン事件, chikatetsu sarin jiken). In May 1995, Asahara and other senior leaders were arrested and the group's membership rapidly decreased.\n\nIn 1985, Air India Flight 182 flying from Canada was blown up by a bomb while in Irish airspace, killing 329 people, including 280 Canadian citizens, mostly of Indian birth or descent, and 22 Indians. The incident was the deadliest act of air terrorism before 9/11, and the first bombing of a 747 Jumbo Jet which would set a pattern for future air terrorism plots. The crash occurred within an hour of the fatal Narita Airport Bombing which also originated from Canada without the passenger for the bag that exploded on the ground. Evidence from the explosions, witnesses and wiretaps of militants pointed to an attempt to actually blow up two airliners simultaneously by members of the Babbar Khalsa Khalistan movement militant group based in Canada to punish India for attacking the Golden Temple.\n\nThe Iranian Embassy siege took place in 1980, after a group of six armed men stormed the Iranian embassy in South Kensington, London. The government ordered the Special Air Service (SAS), a special forces regiment of the British Army, to conduct an assault—Operation Nimrod—to rescue the remaining hostages. This response set the tone for how Western governments would respond to terrorism. Replacing an era of negotiation with one of military intervention.\nChechen separatists, led by Shamil Basayev, carried out several attacks on Russian targets between 1994 and 2006. In the June 1995 Budyonnovsk hospital hostage crisis, Basayev-led separatists took over 1,000 civilians hostage in a hospital in the southern Russian city of Budyonnovsk. When Russian special forces attempted to free the hostages, 105 civilians and 25 Russian troops were killed.\n\nMajor events after the September 11 attacks in 2001 include the Moscow Theatre Siege, the 2003 Istanbul bombings, the Madrid train bombings, the Beslan school hostage crisis, the 2005 London bombings, the October 2005 New Delhi bombings, the 2008 Mumbai Hotel Siege, and the 2011 Norway attacks.\n\nThe Moscow theatre hostage crisis was the seizure of a crowded Moscow theatre on 23 October 2002 by some 40 to 50 armed Chechens who claimed allegiance to the Islamist militant separatist movement in Chechnya. They took 850 hostages and demanded the withdrawal of Russian forces from Chechnya and an end to the Second Chechen War. The siege was officially led by Movsar Barayev. After a two-and-a-half-day siege, Russian Spetsnaz forces pumped an unknown chemical agent (thought to be fentanyl, 3-methylfentanyl), into the building's ventilation system and raided it. Officially, 39 of the attackers were killed by Russian forces, along with at least 129 and possibly many more of the hostages (including nine foreigners). All but a few of the hostages who died were killed by the gas pumped into the theatre, and many condemned the use of the gas as heavy handed. Roughly, 170 people died in all.\n\nOn September 1, 2004, in what became known as the Beslan school hostage crisis, 32 Chechen separatists took 1,300 children and adults hostage at Beslan's School Number One. When Russian authorities did not comply with the rebel demands that Russian forces withdraw from Chechnya, 20 adult male hostages were shot. After two days of stalled negotiations, Russian special forces stormed the building. In the ensuing melee, over 300 hostages died, along with 19 Russian servicemen and all but perhaps one of the rebels. Basayev is believed to have participated in organizing the attack..\n\nThe 2004 Madrid train bombings (also known in Spain as 11-M) were nearly simultaneous, coordinated bombings against the Cercanías commuter train system of Madrid, Spain, on the morning of 11 March 2004three days before Spain's general elections and two and a half years after the September 11 attacks in the United States. The explosions killed 191 people and wounded 1,800. It was concluded that the bombs were carried on the trains hidden in backpacks, While many went off three were found later that did not detonate. The official investigation by the Spanish judiciary found that the attacks were directed by an al-Qaeda-inspired terrorist cell. ETA and al Qaeda were the original suspects cited by the Spanish government.\n\nThe 7 July 2005 London bombings (often referred to as 7/7) were a series of coordinated suicide bomb attacks in central London which targeted civilians using the public transport system during the morning rush hour. On the morning of Thursday, 7 July 2005, four Islamist extremists separately detonated three bombs in quick succession aboard London Underground trains across the city and, later, a fourth on a double-decker bus in Tavistock Square. Fifty-two civilians were killed and over 700 more were injured in the attacks. Later a dozen unexploded bombs were found in a car located in North London. 3 out of the 4 suspects were identified Mohammed Silique Khan, Germaine Morris Lindsay, Shahzad Tawnier where they are found to be in cohorts with Osama Bin Laden and eventually documents are leaked showing that Osama bin laden and Rashid Ruff planned the London bombings.\n\nIn Norway in 2011 two sequential lone wolf terrorist attacks by right-wing extremist Anders Behring Breivik were carried out against the government, the civilian population, and a Workers' Youth League (AUF)-run summer camp in Norway on 22 July 2011. The attacks claimed a total of 77 lives. The first part of the attack was a van bomb in Oslo. The van was placed in front of the office block housing the office of Prime Minister and other government buildings. The explosion killed eight people and injured at least 209 people, twelve of them seriously. He followed this attack by impersonating a police officer to access the island on which the AUF summer camp was being held and proceeded to go on a shooting spree that killed 69 people.\n\nIn 2013 the British government branded the killing of a serviceman in a Woolwich street, a terrorist attack. One of his attackers made political statements which were later broadcast with blood still on his hands from the attack. The two men responsible for the attack remained on the scene until incapacitated by armed police. They were later tried and found guilty of murder.\n\nFrom 7 January to 9 January 2015, a series of five terrorist attacks occurred across the Île-de-France region, particularly in Paris. The attacks killed a total of 17 people, in addition to the three perpetrators of the attack, and wounded 22 others, some of whom are in critical condition . A fifth shooting attack did not result in any fatalities. Numerous other smaller incidents of attacks on mosques have been reported, but have not yet been directly linked to the attacks. The group that claims responsibility for the attacks, Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, claimed that the attack had been planned for years ahead.\n\nOn 7 January 2015, two Islamist gunmen forced their way into and opened fire in the Paris headquarters of \"Charlie Hebdo shooting\", killing twelve: staff cartoonists Charb, Cabu, Honoré, Tignous and Wolinski, economist Bernard Maris, editors Elsa Cayat and Mustapha Ourrad, guest Michel Renaud, maintenance worker Frédéric Boisseau and police officers Brinsolaro and Merabet, and wounding eleven, four of them seriously.\n\nDuring the attack, the gunmen shouted \"Allahu akbar\" (\"God is great\" in Arabic) and also \"the Prophet is avenged\". President François Hollande described it as a \"terrorist attack of the most extreme barbarity\". The two gunmen were identified as Saïd Kouachi and Chérif Kouachi, French Muslim brothers of Algerian descent.\n\nOn 9 January, police tracked the assailants to an industrial estate in Dammartin-en-Goële, where they took a hostage. Another gunman also shot a police officer on 8 January and took hostages the next day, at a kosher supermarket near the Porte de Vincennes. GIGN (a special operations unit of the French Armed Forces), combined with RAID and BRI (special operations units of the French Police), conducted simultaneous raids in Dammartin and at Porte de Vincennes. Three terrorists were killed, along with four hostages who died in the Vincennes supermarket before the intervention; some other hostages were injured.\n\nOn 13 November, 28 hours after the Beirut attack, three groups of ISIS terrorists performed mass killings in various places in Paris' Xe and XIe arrondissements. They killed a total of more than 130 citizens. Hostages were taken in the concert hall \"Le Bataclan\" for three hours, and ninety were killed before the special police entered. The president immediately started the emergency threat procedure, for the first time on the entire French territory since the Algeria events in 1960.\n\nOn March 22, 2016 yet another terrorist attack happened within the confines of Europe. Three nail bombs went off at the same time in Belgium, two happened at Brussels Airport in Zaventem approximately 40 seconds apart. The other nail bomb was at Maalbeck metro station also in Brussels about an hour after the airport attacks The act was carried out by 3 suicide bombers, killing 31 people and injuring 300 people in the process. The three men were claimed as members of the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria known as ISIS. The third nail bomb at the metro station failed to explode during the terrorist act that Tuesday and was safely deactivated. The two men who hit the Brussels Airport were brothers Ibrahim El Bakraoui and Khalid El Bakraoui while a third person was with them Najim Laachraoui who was believed to be the bomb maker also died, the suspect who had the bomb at the metro station has not yet been identified. The Brothers were both killed during the explosions along with the bomb maker, while the unidentified terrorist fled for he had the bomb that did not explode in the metro station.\n\nBrussels responded to this attack with a level 4 alert the highest it had had since the Paris attacks mentioned above. World leaders responded by unifying and offering their aid along with sorrows for the tragedy that happened there on March 22, 2016. 28 heads of state in the European union agreed to fight the War on Terror to better and protect the Union. The attacks on Brussels had no forewarning nor did officials think an attack on that scale could ever be perpetuated.\n\nOsama bin Laden, closely advised by Egyptian Islamic Jihad leader Ayman al-Zawahiri, in 1988 founded Al-Qaeda (Arabic: القاعدة, meaning \"The Base\"), an Islamic jihadist movement to replace Western-controlled or dominated Muslim countries with Islamic fundamentalist regimes. In pursuit of that goal, bin Laden issued a 1996 manifesto that vowed violent jihad against U.S. military forces based in Saudi Arabia. On August 7, 1998, individuals associated with Al Qaeda and Egyptian Islamic Jihad carried out simultaneous bombings of two U.S. embassies in Africa which resulted in 224 deaths. On October 12, 2000, Al-Qaeda carried out the USS Cole bombing, a suicide bombing of the U.S. Navy destroyer USS \"Cole\" harbored in the Yemeni port of Aden. The bombing killed seventeen U.S. sailors.\n\nOn September 11, 2001, nineteen men affiliated with al-Qaeda hijacked four commercial passenger jets all bound for California, crashing two of them into the World Trade Center in New York City, the third into the Pentagon in Arlington County, Virginia, and the fourth (originally intended to target Washington, D.C., either the White House or the U.S. Capitol) into an open field near Shanksville, Pennsylvania, after a revolt by the plane's passengers. As a result of the attacks, 2,996 people (including the 19 hijackers) perished and more than 6,000 others were injured.\n\nThe United States responded to the attacks by launching the War on Terror. Specifically, on October 7, 2001, it invaded Afghanistan to depose the Taliban, which had harbored al-Qaeda terrorists. On October 26, 2001, the U.S. enacted the Patriot Act that expanded the powers of U.S. law enforcement and intelligence agencies. Many countries followed with similar legislation. Under the Obama administration, the U.S. changed tactics moving away from ground combat with large numbers of troops, to the use of drones and special forces. This campaign eliminated much of al-Qaeda's most senior members, including a strike by Seal Team Six that resulted in the death of Osama Bin Laden in 2011.\n\nOn Israel's northern border, after its unilateral withdrawal from southern Lebanon in May 2000, Hezbollah launched numerous Katyusha rocket attacks against non-civilian and civilian areas within northern Israel. Within Israel, the 1993–2008 Second Intifada involved in part a series of suicide bombings against civilian and non-civilian targets. 1100 Israelis were killed in the Second Intifada, the majority being civilians. A 2007 study of Palestinian suicide bombings from September 2000 through August 2005 found that 40% percent were carried out by Hamas's Izz ad-Din al-Qassam Brigades, and roughly 26% by the Palestinian Islamic Jihad (PIJ) and Fatah militias. Also, between 2001 and January 2009, over 8,600 rocket attacks were launched from the Gaza Strip were launched into civilian areas and non-civilian areas inside Israel, causing deaths, injuries, and psychological trauma.\nFormed in 2003, Jundallah is a Sunni insurgent group from the Baloch region of Iran and neighboring Pakistan. It has committed numerous attacks within Iran, stating that it is fighting for the rights of the Sunni minority there. In 2005 the group attempted to assassinate Iran's president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. The group takes credit for other bombings, including the 2007 Zahedan bombings. Iran and other sources accuse the group of being a front for or supported by other nations, in particular the U.S. and Pakistan.\n\nAs the Islamic state of Syria and Iraq increases in size and power their attacks are affecting all parts of the world even in their own back yard of Turkey. Taking place in Istanbul a suicide bomber once again detonated a car bomb killing 4 people and injuring 31. No extremist group took responsibility for the attack but the attacker Mehmet Ozturk was linked to have ties with ISIS. This was just days after the car bomb attack in Turkeys capital of Ankara killing 37 people. The U.S. security council asked for the repeated terror attacks on Turkey to stop, and that the War on Terror will just become stronger due actions like these killing innocent people. Since the attacks Israel has requested that its citizens not travel to Turkey unless its necessary.\n\nOn December 27, 2007 two time elected Pakistani Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto was assassinated during a gathering she was having with her supporters. A suicide bomber detonated a bomb along with other extremists against her shooting off guns killing the prime minister and 14 other people. She was immediately rushed to the hospital and was pronounced dead. She was believed to be target because she was warning Pakistan along with the world of the uprising Jihadist groups and extremist groups gaining power. The responsibility of her death falls on the president of the time Pervez Musharraf who also was the ex- military chief, She had several conversations with Musharraf about upping her security due to the increase of death threats she was receiving and he denied her request. Although AL-Qaeda took responsibility for her death it is seen in the eye of the people as former President's Pervez Musharraf's fault for not taking her concerns seriously. However, during his trial he denies that no conversation happened between him and Benzair Bhutto about the security of her life.\n\nThe 2008 Mumbai attacks were more than ten coordinated shooting and bombing attacks across Mumbai, India's largest city, by Lashkar-e-Taiba, a Pakistani Islamic terrorist organization with ties to ISI, Pakistan's secret service. The six main targets were \n The attacks, which drew widespread condemnation across the world, began on 26 November 2008 and lasted until 29 November, killing at least 173 people and wounding at least 308.\n\nOn January 14, 2016 a series of terrorist attacks took place in Jakarta, Indonesia resulting in 8 dead. The responsibility of these attacks were claimed by ISIS Counter terrorism has named this type of attack 'Marauding Terrorist Firearms Attack' because of the fast reaction needed by local policemen to stop the gunfire attack from the terrorists. The attack on Jakarta is linked to a bigger picture of terror in the Indonesian country for those of ISIS. Indonesia is home of the \"largest regional terror groups\" housing seven Islamist extremist groups. Leaving the thoughts that ISIS is trying to establish a satellite city in Indonesia, due to the fact that it has the largest Muslim population. Although ISIS branches have not yet reached the land of Southeast Asia in big masses, there is the fear that it is only a matter of time until Indonesias small extremist groups grow in masses once direct contact with ISIS is made. Once contact is established local terror groups will quickly mobilize to carry out the tasks that ISIS asks of them. ISIS will turn to Southeast Asia because it is only evident that they will lose control of the middle east.\n\n2001 also saw the second acknowledged act of bioterrorism with the 2001 anthrax attacks (the first being intentional food poisoning conducted in The Dalles, Oregon by Rajneeshee followers in 1984), when letters carrying anthrax spores were posted to several major American media outlets and two Democratic Party politicians. This resulted in several of the first fatalities attributed to a bioterror attack.\n\nThe more recent terrorist attack in the United States have included the 2015 San Bernardino attack, the Bombing of Boston Marathon by Islamic terrorists, the shooting of police officers in sniper ambushes by members of Black Lives Matter movement, and the shooting of multiple black parishioners at church and car attack on anti-fascist protesters in Charlottesville by right-wing extremists and white supremacists. There have been calls by some analysts to describe violence committed by incels as terrorism.\n"}
{"id": "12468475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12468475", "title": "Inevitable discovery", "text": "Inevitable discovery\n\nInevitable discovery is a doctrine in the United States criminal procedure that allows evidence of a defendant's guilt that would otherwise be considered inadmissible under the exclusionary rule to be admitted into evidence in a trial.\n\nThe doctrine was adopted first by the United States Supreme Court in \"Nix v. Williams\" in 1984. It holds that evidence obtained in violation of the defendant's constitutional rights is admissible in court if it can be established, by a preponderance of the evidence, that normal police investigation would have inevitably led to the discovery of the evidence. The rationale for the rule is that police misconduct is sufficiently deterred and the interests of society are better served by putting police in the same position that they would have been in without the rights violation, not a worse position.\n"}
{"id": "23276654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23276654", "title": "Infinite qualitative distinction", "text": "Infinite qualitative distinction\n\nThe infinite qualitative distinction (; ), sometimes translated as infinite qualitative difference, is a concept coined by the Danish philosopher Søren Kierkegaard. The distinction emphasizes the very different attributes of finite and temporal men and the infinite and eternal qualities of a supreme being. This concept fits into the apophatic theology tradition and therefore is fundamentally at odds with theological theories which posit a supreme being able to be fully understood by man. The theologian Karl Barth made the concept of infinite qualitative distinction a cornerstone of his theology.\n\nFor Kierkegaard, direct communication with God is impossible, as the idea of God and man are infinitely different. He argues that indirect communication with God is the only way of communication. For example, in Christian belief, the Incarnation posits that Jesus Christ is God incarnate. The infinite qualitative distinction is opposed to rational theology in the sense that, whereas the latter argues one can prove empirically Jesus is God incarnate, the former argues that empirical evidence is ultimately insufficient in making that conclusion. The paradoxical nature of the Incarnation, that God is embodied in a man, is offensive to reason, and can only be comprehended indirectly, through faith.\n\nBarth's book \"The Epistle to the Romans\" also emphasizes such a gulf. In the preface to the Second Edition of his commentary, Barth writes, \"if I have a system, it is limited to a recognition of what Kierkegaard called the 'infinite qualitative distinction' between time and eternity, and to my regarding this as possessing negative as well as positive significance: 'God is in heaven, and thou art on earth'. The relation between such a God and such a man, and the relation between such a man and such a God, is for me the theme of the Bible and the essence of philosophy.\"\n\nKierkegaard doesn't believe God is so objective toward human beings but rather that he is the absolute subjective being. He put it this way in 1846: \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23476429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23476429", "title": "Intersection (set theory)", "text": "Intersection (set theory)\n\nIn mathematics, the intersection \"A\" ∩ \"B\" of two sets \"A\" and \"B\" is the set that contains all elements of \"A\" that also belong to \"B\" (or equivalently, all elements of \"B\" that also belong to \"A\"), but no other elements.\n\nFor explanation of the symbols used in this article, refer to the table of mathematical symbols.\n\nThe intersection of two sets \"A\" and \"B\", denoted by , is the set of all objects that are members of both the sets and .\nIn symbols,\n\nThat is, \"x\" is an element of the intersection \"A\" ∩ \"B\" if and only if \"x\" is both an element of \"A\" and an element of \"B\".\n\nFor example:\n\nIntersection is an associative operation; that is, for any sets \"A\", \"B\", and \"C\", one has \"A\" ∩ (\"B\" ∩ \"C\") = (\"A\" ∩ \"B\") ∩ \"C\". Intersection is also commutative; for any \"A\" and \"B\", one has \"A\" ∩ \"B\" = \"B\" ∩ \"A.\" It thus makes sense to talk about intersections of multiple sets. The intersection of \"A\", \"B\", \"C\", and \"D\", for example, is unambiguously written \"A\" ∩ \"B\" ∩ \"C\" ∩ \"D\".\n\nInside a universe \"U\" one may define the complement \"A\" of \"A\" to be the set of all elements of \"U\" not in \"A\". Now the intersection of \"A\" and \"B\" may be written as the complement of the union of their complements, derived easily from De Morgan's laws:<br>\n\"A\" ∩ \"B\" = (\"A\" ∪ \"B\")\n\nWe say that \"A intersects (meets) B at an element x\" if \"x\" belongs to \"A\" and \"B\". We say that \"A intersects (meets) B\" if \"A\" intersects B at some element. \"A\" intersects \"B\" if their intersection is inhabited.\n\nWe say that \"A and B are disjoint\" if \"A\" does not intersect \"B\". In plain language, they have no elements in common. \"A\" and \"B\" are disjoint if their intersection is empty, denoted formula_2.\n\nFor example, the sets {1, 2} and {3, 4} are disjoint, while the set of even numbers intersects the set of multiples of 3 at the multiples of 6.\n\nThe most general notion is the intersection of an arbitrary \"nonempty\" collection of sets.\nIf \"M\" is a nonempty set whose elements are themselves sets, then \"x\" is an element of the \"intersection\" of \"M\" if and only if for every element \"A\" of \"M\", \"x\" is an element of \"A\".\nIn symbols:\n\nThe notation for this last concept can vary considerably. Set theorists will sometimes write \"⋂\"M\"\", while others will instead write \"⋂\"A\"\".\nThe latter notation can be generalized to \"⋂ \"A\"\", which refers to the intersection of the collection {\"A\" : \"i\" ∈ \"I\"}.\nHere \"I\" is a nonempty set, and \"A\" is a set for every \"i\" in \"I\".\n\nIn the case that the index set \"I\" is the set of natural numbers, notation analogous to that of an infinite product may be seen:\n\nWhen formatting is difficult, this can also be written \"\"A\" ∩ \"A\" ∩ \"A\" ∩ ...\". This last example, an intersection of countably many sets, is actually very common; for an example see the article on σ-algebras.\n\nNote that in the previous section we excluded the case where \"M\" was the empty set (∅). The reason is as follows: The intersection of the collection \"M\" is defined as the set (see set-builder notation)\nIf \"M\" is empty there are no sets \"A\" in \"M\", so the question becomes \"which \"x\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s satisfy the stated condition?\" The answer seems to be \"every possible x\". When \"M\" is empty the condition given above is an example of a vacuous truth. So the intersection of the empty family should be the universal set (the identity element for the operation of intersection) \n\nUnfortunately, according to standard (ZFC) set theory, the universal set does not exist. A fix for this problem can be found if we note that the intersection over a set of sets is always a subset of the union over that set of sets. This can symbolically be written as\nTherefore, we can modify the definition slightly to\nNow if \"M\" is empty there is no problem. The intersection is the empty set, because the union over the empty set is the empty set. In fact, this is the operation that we would have defined in the first place if we were defining the set in ZFC, as except for the operations defined by the axioms (the power set of a set, for instance), every set must be defined as the subset of some other set or by replacement.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14503276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14503276", "title": "Kiyotaki–Moore model", "text": "Kiyotaki–Moore model\n\nThe Kiyotaki–Moore model of credit cycles is an economic model developed by Nobuhiro Kiyotaki and John H. Moore that shows how small shocks to the economy might be amplified by credit restrictions, giving rise to large output fluctuations. The model assumes that borrowers cannot be forced to repay their debts. Therefore, in equilibrium, lending occurs only if it is collateralized. That is, borrowers must own a sufficient quantity of capital that can be confiscated in case they fail to repay. This collateral requirement amplifies business cycle fluctuations because in a recession, the income from capital falls, causing the price of capital to fall, which makes capital less valuable as collateral, which limits firms' investment by forcing them to reduce their borrowing, and thereby worsens the recession.\n\nKiyotaki (a macroeconomist) and Moore (a contract theorist) originally described their model in a 1997 paper in the \"Journal of Political Economy\". Their model has become influential because earlier real business cycle models typically relied on large exogenous shocks to account for fluctuations in aggregate output. The Kiyotaki–Moore model shows instead how relatively small shocks might suffice to explain business cycle fluctuations, if credit markets are imperfect.\n\nIn their model economy, Kiyotaki and Moore assume two types of decision makers, with different time preference rates: \"patient\" and \"impatient.\" The \"patient\" agents are called \"gatherers\" in the original paper, but should be interpreted as households that wish to save. The \"impatient\" agents are called \"farmers\" in the original paper, but should be interpreted as entrepreneurs or firms that wish to borrow in order to finance their investment projects.\n\nTwo key assumptions limit the effectiveness of the credit market in the model. First, the knowledge of the \"farmers\" is an essential input to their own investment projects—that is, a project becomes worthless if the farmer who made the investment chooses to abandon it. Second, farmers cannot be forced to work, and therefore they cannot sell off their future labor to guarantee their debts. Together, these assumptions imply that even though farmers' investment projects are potentially very valuable, lenders have no way to confiscate this value if farmers choose not to pay back their debts.\n\nTherefore, loans will only be made if they are backed by some other form of capital which can be confiscated in case of default. In other words, loans must be backed by collateral. Kiyotaki and Moore's paper considers land as an example of a collateralizable asset. Thus land plays two distinct roles in the model: (i) it is a productive input, and (ii) it also serves as collateral for debt.\n\nHence, impatient agents must provide real estate as collateral if they wish to borrow. If for any reason the value of real estate declines, so does the amount of debt they can acquire. This feeds back into the real estate market, driving the price of land down further (thus, the borrowing decisions of the impatient agents are strategic complements). This positive feedback is what amplifies economic fluctuations in the model.\n\nThe paper also analyzes cases where debt contracts are set only in nominal terms or where contracts can be set in real terms, and considers the differences between the cases.\n\nThe original paper of Kiyotaki and Moore was theoretical in nature, and made little attempt to evaluate the quantitative relevance of their mechanism for actual economies. In 2005, Kiyotaki's student Matteo Iacoviello embedded the Kiyotaki-Moore mechanism inside a standard New Keynesian general equilibrium macroeconomic model. For realism, Iacoviello assumed that the collateralizable form of capital corresponds to real estate, and compared the predictions of his model with observed fluctuations of real housing prices in the United States.\n"}
{"id": "4695328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4695328", "title": "Lightness (philosophy)", "text": "Lightness (philosophy)\n\nLightness is a philosophical concept most closely associated with continental philosophy and existentialism, which is used in ontology. The term \"lightness\" varies in usage but is differentiated from physical weight, such as \"the lightness of balsa wood\". In other words, \"light like a bird,\" as Paul Valéry wrote, \"and not like a feather\". Lightness is also considered as a noun.\n\nMilan Kundera's 1984 novel \"The Unbearable Lightness of Being\" is an exploration of the concept of Lightness.\n\nKundera uses Friedrich Nietzsche's doctrine of the Eternal Return to illustrate Lightness. Eternal Return dictates that all things in existence recur over and over again for all eternity. This is to say that human history is a preset circle without progress, the same events arising perpetually and doomed never to alter or to improve. Existence is thus weighty because it stands fixed in an infinite cycle. This weightiness is “the heaviest of burdens”, for “if every second of our lives recurs an infinite number of times, we are nailed to eternity as Jesus Christ was nailed to the cross.” At the same time, it is necessary for any event to occur in the cycle of events exactly as it has always occurred for the cycle to be identical; consequently, everything takes on an eternally fixed meaning. This fact prevents one from believing things to be fleeting and worthless.\n\nThe inverse of this concept is Kundera's “unbearable lightness of being.” Assuming that eternal return were impossible, humankind would experience an “absolute absence of burden,” and this would “[cause] man to be lighter than air” in his lack of weight of meaning. Something which does not forever recur has its brief existence, and, once it is complete, the universe goes on existing, utterly indifferent to the completed phenomenon. “Life which disappears once and for all, which does not return” writes Kundera, is “without weight...and whether it was horrible, beautiful, or sublime...means nothing.” Each life is insignificant; every decision does not matter. Since decisions do not matter, they are \"light\": they do not tie us down. However, at the same time, the insignificance of our decisions - our lives, or being - is unbearable. Hence, \"the unbearable lightness of being.\" On the other hand, eternal existence would demand of us strict adherence to prescripted rules and laws; a sense of duty and rigorous morality.\n\"What then shall we choose? Weight or lightness?\" Kundera notes that this is not a new question. Parmenides posed it in the sixth century BC. He saw the world divided into pairs of opposites: light/darkness, fineness/coarseness etc. One half of the opposition he called positive (light, fineness, warmth, being), the other negative. We might find this division into positive and negative poles simple except for one difficulty: which one is positive, weight or lightness? Parmenides responded that lightness is positive, weight negative. Kundera then questions \"Was he correct or not?\" The lightness/weight opposition remains the most ambiguous of all. Kundera then asks, should one live with weight and duty or with lightness and freedom? In Nietzschean terms, weight is life-affirming in that to live with positive intensity is to live in a way you'd be prepared to repeat. The emptiness of Sabina's life in 'The Unbearable Lightness Of Being', and that she wanted to \"die in lightness\" — which is to say that she is indifferent to her life — shows that she would not want to repeat her life and would not accept an eternal return.\n\nSimilarly to Greek philosopher Heraclitus, for Italo Calvino, Lightness is the flexible; the weightless; the mobile; the connective; vectors as distinct from structures. Italo Calvino explored Lightness in the first of his \"Six Memos for the Next Millennium\". He saw Lightness as an important aspect of post-modern society and existence that should be celebrated; he, like Heraclitus, never viewed Lightness as negative, indeed he never ascribed any evaluative content to it.\n\nCalvino keenly explores the borderline between lightness and the superficial; he posits that a contemplative lightness may make light-heartnedness seem heavy and dim; the pursuit of lightness as a reaction to the dutifulness of life. \n\nCalvino emphasises that he does not intend to exclude or to define as inferior the opposite, as for example light/heavy, quick/slow; instant deduction is not necessarily better than well-considered thought, the case may be even contrary. It simply communicates something which is only emblematic of lightness. The balance or tension between the two 'poles' is an important aspect.\n\nIn \"Six Memos\" he says that \"It is true that software cannot exercise its powers of lightness except through the weight of hardware. But it is the software that gives the orders, acting on the outside world and on machines that exist only as functions of software and evolve so that they can work out ever more complex programs. The second industrial revolution, unlike the first, does not present us with such crushing images as rolling mills and molten steel, but with 'bits' in a flow of information traveling along circuits in the form of electronic impulses. The iron machines still exist, but they obey the orders of weightless bits.\"\n\nThe Yoga Sutras of Patanjali also deal with Lightness. Book 3 describes Lightness or Laghima as being one of the eight siddhis, or eight perfections: the capacity to offset the force of one's facticity. This is defined in relation to Pullness or Garima, which concerns worldly weight and mass.\n\nZen Buddhism teaches that one ought to become as light as being itself. Zen teaches one not only to find the lightness of being “bearable,” but to rejoice in this lightness. This stands as an interesting opposition to Kundera's evaluation of Lightness.\n\n"}
{"id": "46841649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46841649", "title": "Logical determinism", "text": "Logical determinism\n\nLogical determinism is the view that a proposition about the future is either necessarily true, or its negation is necessarily true. The argument for this is as follows. By excluded middle, the future tense proposition (‘There will be a sea-battle tomorrow’) is either true now, or its negation is true. But what makes it (or its negation true) is the present existence of a state of affairs – a truthmaker. If so, then the future is determined in the sense that the way things are now – namely the state of affairs that makes ‘There will be a sea-battle tomorrow’ or its negation true – determines the way that things will be. Furthermore, if the past is necessary, in the sense that a state of affairs that existed yesterday cannot be altered, then the state of affairs that made the proposition ‘There will be a sea-battle tomorrow’ true cannot be changed, and so the proposition or its negation is necessarily true, and it is either necessarily the case that there will be a sea-battle tomorrow, or necessarily \"not\" the case. \n\nThe term ‘logical determinism’ (\"Logischer Determinismus\") was introduced by Moritz Schlick. \n\nLogical determinism seems to present a problem for the conception of free will which requires that different courses of action are possible, for the sea-battle argument suggests that only one course is possible, because necessary. In trying to resolve the problem, the 13th century philosopher Duns Scotus argued in an early work that a future proposition can be understood in two ways: either as signifying something in reality that makes something be true in the future, or simply as signifying that something will be the case. The second sense is weaker in that it does not commit us to any \"present\" state of affairs that makes the future proposition true, only a \"future\" state of affairs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1949566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1949566", "title": "Louise Bryant", "text": "Louise Bryant\n\nLouise Bryant (December 5, 1885 – January 6, 1936) was an American feminist, political activist, and journalist best known for her sympathetic coverage of Russia and the Bolsheviks during the Russian Revolution. Bryant, who married fellow journalist John Reed (her second husband) in 1916, wrote about Russian leaders such as Katherine Breshkovsky, Maria Spiridonova, Alexander Kerensky, Vladimir Lenin, and Leon Trotsky. Her news stories, distributed by Hearst during and after her trips to Petrograd and Moscow, appeared in newspapers across the United States and Canada in the years immediately following World War I. A collection of articles from her first trip was published in 1918 as \"Six Red Months in Russia\". Over the next year, she defended the revolution in testimony before the Overman Committee, a Senate subcommittee established to investigate Bolshevik influence in the United States. Later in 1919, she undertook a nationwide speaking tour to encourage public support of the Bolsheviks and to denounce armed U.S. intervention in Russia.\n\nBorn Anna Louise Mohan, as a young girl she began using the last name of her stepfather, Sheridan Bryant, in preference to that of her father. She grew up in rural Nevada and attended the University of Nevada in Reno and the University of Oregon in Eugene, graduating with a degree in history in 1909. Pursuing a career in journalism, she became society editor of the \"Spectator\" and freelanced for \"The Oregonian\", newspapers in Portland, Oregon. During her years in that city (1909–1915), she became active in the women's suffrage movement. Leaving her first husband in 1915 to follow Reed to Greenwich Village, she formed friendships with leading feminists of the day, some of whom she met through Reed's associates at publications such as \"The Masses\"; at meetings of a women's group, Heterodoxy; and through work with the Provincetown Players. During a National Woman's Party suffrage rally in Washington, D.C., in 1919, she was arrested and spent three days in jail. Both she and Reed took lovers outside marriage; during her Greenwich Village years (1916–1920) for her these included the playwright Eugene O'Neill and the painter Andrew Dasburg.\n\nAfter Reed's death from typhus in 1920, Bryant continued to write for Hearst about Russia and also about Turkey, Hungary, Greece, Italy, and other countries in Europe and the Middle East. Some articles from this period were collected in 1923 under the title \"Mirrors of Moscow\". Later that year she married William C. Bullitt, Jr., with whom she had her only child, Anne, the following year. Suffering in her later years from the rare and painful disorder adiposis dolorosa, Bryant did little writing or publishing in her last decade, and drank heavily. Bullitt, winning sole custody of Anne, divorced Bryant in 1930. Bryant died in Paris in 1936 and was buried in Versailles. In 1998, a group from Portland restored her grave, which had become neglected.\n\nAnna Louise Mohan was born in 1885 in San Francisco, California. Her father, Hugh Mohan, born in Pennsylvania, became a journalist and stump speaker involved in labor issues and Democratic Party politics. Moving to San Francisco, he continued to write for newspapers, and in 1880 he married Louisa Flick, who grew up on the ranch of her stepfather, James Say, near Humboldt Lake in Nevada. The Mohans had two children, Barbara (1880) and Louis (1882), before the birth of Anna Louise. Later in 1885, the family moved to Reno, where Mohan continued his journalistic career but drank heavily. One day he departed and never returned to his wife and children. Louise's mother divorced him in 1889 and married Sheridan Bryant, a freight conductor on the Southern Pacific railway. The couple had two children, Floyd (1894) and William (1896). Although the family lived in Wadsworth, Nevada, Louise accepted an invitation from James Say to live at his ranch. She remained there for three or four years, returning to Wadsworth at her mother's insistence at the age of 12. Bryant adopted her stepfather's last name, but never changed it legally from Mohan.\nAttending high school in Wadsworth and Reno and college at Nevada State University (now known as the University of Nevada, Reno), Bryant developed interests in journalism, debate, illustration, social life, dancing, and basketball. She edited the \"Young Ladies Edition\" of the \"Student Record\" in 1905, wrote a short story, \"The Way of a Flirt\", for a literary magazine, \"Chuckwalla\", and contributed sketches to it and another publication, \"Artemisia\". Depressed after the death of her step-grandfather in 1906, Bryant left school for a job in Jolon, California, where for a few months she boarded at a cattle ranch and taught children, mostly young Mexicans. That summer she moved to Eugene, Oregon, where her brother Louis worked for the Southern Pacific.\n\nAfter learning that she could transfer her college credits from Nevada, she enrolled at the University of Oregon, in Eugene. Popular at the school, which then had a total student enrollment of less than 500, she helped start a small sorority, Zeta Iota Phi (a chapter of Chi Omega), and served as its first president. During her time in Eugene, she produced poems and pen-and-ink sketches for the \"Oregon Monthly\". In a small city steeped in \"puritan moralism\", she was the first to wear rouge on campus; she had multiple boyfriends, and she wore clothes that Miriam Van Waters, the editor of the \"Oregon Monthly\", and Luella Clay Carson, the dean of women, considered improper. Taking off the spring semester of 1908 to teach in a one-room schoolhouse on Stuart Island, one of the San Juan Islands near the U.S. border with Canada, she returned to Eugene to finish her bachelor's degree in history, graduating in early 1909. Her senior thesis was on the Modoc Indian Wars.\n\nIn the spring of 1909, Bryant moved to Portland, first sharing a downtown apartment with one of her college friends, Clara Wold, then renting her own apartment in the same building. Among her jobs, she designed a stained-glass window for the Povey Brothers, worked as a freelance reporter for \"The Oregonian\", and became an illustrator and society editor for the \"Portland Spectator\", a weekly news magazine. Meanwhile, she formed friendships with people—such as Cas Baer, drama editor for \"The Oregonian\"—who were interested in journalism and the arts. In late 1909, she met and married Paul Trullinger, a dentist who lived on a houseboat on the Willamette River, collected art, and liked drinking parties that sometimes included invitations to his office to inhale ether.\n\nBryant, who retained her maiden name and her downtown apartment after her marriage to Trullinger, bridled at doing housework and yearned for professional advancement. Drawn toward politics and the women's suffrage movement by her friend Sara Bard Field, she joined the Oregon branch of the College Equal Suffrage League in 1912. She and Field gave pro-suffrage speeches in smaller Oregon cities, and Bryant rode on the suffrage float in Portland's annual Flag Day parade. Led by Abigail Scott Duniway, women achieved suffrage in Oregon later that year.\n\nBryant became familiar with the socialist journal \"The Masses\" through Portland resident and lawyer C. E. S. Wood, who eventually married Field and who often contributed to the magazine. Enthusiastic about its contents, particularly articles by Portland native John Reed, Bryant began raising subscriptions for it. Emma Goldman, a well-known anarchist whom Wood had defended in court, gave a speech in Reed's honor at the Industrial Workers of the World (IWW) hall in Portland. She and other political activists, such as Alexander Berkman, were among guests entertained by Bryant and her husband. In 1914, Reed, a Harvard graduate and established writer who by then lived in Greenwich Village, came home for a visit, during which he spoke at the University Club of Portland against the class system. Exactly how or when or how often Bryant and Reed met is uncertain, but near Christmas 1915 when Reed again came home to visit his widowed mother, the young couple announced their love at a dinner party. Reed returned to Greenwich Village on December 28, and Bryant, abandoning her marriage, followed him three days later. Trullinger filed for divorce, which was granted in July 1916, on grounds of desertion.\n\n Reed had rented a room for Bryant near his apartment at 43 Washington Square. Their unmarried co-habitation caused little curiosity among Reed's friends in the Village, many of whom rejected marriage and other middle-class norms. Unified by an \"air of intellectual freedom, moral laissez-faire and camaraderie\", most were involved in literary, artistic, or political pursuits in a Bohemian neighborhood that in some ways resembled the Left Bank of Paris. While visiting New York, Field took Bryant to a meeting of Heterodoxy, a women's group that included feminist Charlotte Perkins Gilman, journalist Mary Heaton Vorse, political activist Crystal Eastman, actress Ida Rauh, writers Zona Gale and Mary Austin, and many others. Among Bryant's new friends were feminists Inez Milholland, Inez Gillmore, and Doris Stevens. Other notables circulating in the Village included Emma Goldman, playwright Eugene O'Neill, and one of Reed's former lovers, arts patron Mabel Dodge.\n\nAt Number 43, Bryant and Reed pursued their journalistic endeavors in separate work rooms. Four months after leaving Oregon, Bryant broke into print in New York with an article about two Portland judges, one of whom had dismissed a case brought against Goldman for distributing birth-control information. It was published as \"Two Judges\" in the April 1916 issue of \"The Masses\", edited by Max Eastman, Crystal Eastman's brother. Meanwhile, Reed, who had reported on the 1913 Paterson silk strike, Pancho Villa in 1913–14, and the ongoing war (World War I) in Europe, went on assignment for \"Collier's\" to interview William Jennings Bryan in Florida.\n\nLater that spring Bryant and Reed heeded Vorse's call to spend the warm season in Provincetown, Massachusetts, at the tip of Cape Cod, and to take part in the communal theater productions of the Provincetown Players. Others from the Village went as well and joined the group, organized in 1915 by George Cram Cook and his wife, Susan Glaspell, who hoped to produce plays that were both political and artistic. Among the works the group staged in 1916 were Bryant's \"The Game\", in which characters named Life and Death play dice for the lives of Youth (a poet) and Girl (a dancer). It appeared on the same bill as \"Not Smart\" by Wilbur Steele and \"Bound East for Cardiff\" by O'Neill.\n\nDuring the summer, Reed left Cape Cod to cover the Progressive Party convention in Chicago, and at other times he retreated from the players to work on articles for \"Collier's\" and \"Metropolitan Magazine\". During these absences, Bryant and O'Neill became lovers, not surprising in a group that professed and practiced free love. Reed, made aware of this new development, responded by inviting O'Neill to begin taking his meals with them. In a note to Field, Bryant said that her relationship with Reed was \"so beautiful and so free!... We don't \"interfere\" with each other at all...we feel like children who will never grow up.\"\n\n After spending the month of September 1916 in a cottage they bought in Truro, Bryant and Reed returned to Greenwich Village, where the Provincetown Players planned to establish an alternative to Broadway theater. On weekends, they sojourned to Croton-on-Hudson, upriver from New York City, where Villagers including Eastman, Dodge, and illustrator Boardman Robinson and his wife had cottages. In October, Bryant and Reed bought their own place in Croton-on-Hudson. Meanwhile, Reed, who had suffered from kidney ailments since childhood, was told by his doctors that he would need to have a kidney removed. The surgery, considered \"gravely serious\", was scheduled for mid-November. Reed wanted to protect Bryant by making her his legal heir, and they married on November 9 at the county clerk's office in Peekskill before Reed left on November 12 for surgery at Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore.\n\nCompounding their difficulties were Bryant's ongoing relationship with O'Neill and gynecological problems she was treated for while Reed was in the hospital. When he returned from Baltimore in mid-December, Reed and Bryant retreated full-time to Croton-on-Hudson to recuperate and to focus on writing. They made plans to travel to China in 1917 to cover events for American publications, but in January the plans fell through when U.S. entry into World War I against Germany became highly likely. (The U.S. entered the war on April 6.) To boost their finances, they sold the cottage in Truro to Margaret Sanger, and Reed pawned his father's gold watch. At the same time, his strong anti-war positions, enunciated in \"The Masses\" and elsewhere, alienated most of his employers, further reducing his income. Adding to these stresses was Reed's confession to Bryant that he had had multiple love affairs, and the subsequent unhappiness between Bryant and Reed led to a temporary separation. When she expressed a desire to go to Europe, he helped her convince John N. Wheeler, who had recently formed the Bell Syndicate, to issue her a press pass. Reed paid for her passage, and Bryant set sail in June to cover the war in France. Regrets quickly followed. According to Bryant biographer Virginia Gardner:\n\nNo sooner had they parted on board the ship than both Reed and Bryant were assailed by misgivings. An outpouring of letters from either side of the Atlantic followed. Both were suffering, both were confused, lonely, and miserable... [The letters were] proof of the basically strong bond that held the two, the poet-reporter and social critic and the erratic, appealing woman he had rescued from the banality of middle-class existence in Portland.\n\nOn the voyage across the Atlantic, Bryant interviewed ambulance-service troops and others on board the \"Espagne\" and wrote news stories about them and about the threat of torpedo attacks. When she arrived in Paris, Bryant tried for several weeks to obtain permission from French authorities to visit the Western Front, but could not do so because of her limited journalistic experience and her sex. She ended up collecting information about the war from as many sources as she could meet in Paris, and sent her news stories to Reed, who edited them and forwarded them to Wheeler.\n\n In mid-August, when Bryant returned from France, Reed met her at the dock and told her to prepare to go to Petrograd four days later to cover the Russian Revolution. Eastman of \"The Masses\" had raised funds to pay Reed's travel expenses, and the Bell Syndicate assigned Bryant to report on the war \"from a woman's point of view\". Leaving New York on August 17, they arrived in Petrograd, which was then the capital of Russia, about six months after the forced abdication of the last Russian czar, Nicholas II. Headed by Alexander Kerensky, the provisional government that had succeeded the czar had already survived an attempted putsch by Major General Lavr Kornilov. Bryant and Reed entered the city after the Kornilov Affair and before the Bolsheviks overthrew the Kerensky government in the October Revolution.\n\nReconciled as a couple, and working from their room at the Angleterre Hotel, Bryant and Reed attended gatherings at the Smolny Institute and elsewhere in Petrograd and interviewed many leading political figures, including Lenin, Trotsky, and Kerensky, and both eventually compiled books—\"Six Red Months in Russia\" by Bryant and Reed's \"Ten Days That Shook the World\"—from their articles. Bryant circulated widely, covering Duma meetings, dining in public mess halls with soldiers and workers, and interviewing women revolutionaries. Among those were Katherine Breshkovsky, known as the \"grandmother of the revolution\", Maria Spiridonova, whom Bryant considered the most powerful woman in Russia, and Aleksandra Kollontai, who became People's Commissar of Social Welfare and the only woman in the Bolshevik cabinet. In the process, Bryant, who had often been overshadowed by her more famous husband, gained confidence in her professional reporting skills. By the time she returned to New York, her work was being read across North America. Gardner says:\n\n[The] springtime of 1918 in the United States was a time of heightened contradictions. Openmindedness about the new Russian experiment in cities and the hinterland coexisted with the intensified patriotism of wartime... No matter what appeared in their editorial pages, newspaper editors knew that feature stories with first-hand knowledge of the Revolution sold papers. The conservative and Republican Philadelphia \"Public Ledger\" syndicate bought Bryant's thirty-two stories and sold them to Hearst's \"New York American\" and to more than one hundred newspapers over the United States and Canada.\n\nLeaving Russia before Reed, who wanted to report on the Bolshevik debate about Russian participation in the war with Germany, Bryant returned to New York, arriving on February 18, 1918. She found Greenwich Village much changed by the war: old friends had moved, rents had gone up, and tourists were replacing bohemians. Under government pressure, \"The Masses\" had shut down. Working out of a room at the Brevoort Hotel, Bryant wrote articles about the October Revolution and speeches or cables urging support of the workers' government in Russia.\n\nMeanwhile, Reed, who was trying to get home, was unable to get State Department clearance for a visa and was detained in Oslo (then called \"Christiana\"), Norway, for more than a month. His letters were censored, and Bryant did not hear from him directly until April. On orders from Edgar Sisson of the U.S. Commission on Public Information, all of Reed's papers were confiscated when he arrived in New York on April 28. Unable to write about the October Revolution without his notes, Reed instead gave speeches advocating U.S. recognition of the new Russian government. That summer, the couple retreated to Croton-on-Hudson.\n\nIn August, during a long weekend in the arts colony at Woodstock, Bryant began what was to be a long-term, intermittent love affair with painter Andrew Dasburg, with whom she had been close for a couple of years. Returning to the Village in September, Bryant and Reed rented a small house at 1 Patchin Place. Later in the month, Reed was arrested for giving a speech in which he denounced the use of Allied troops in Russia; the specific charge against him was that he had used \"disloyal, scurrilous and abusive language about the Military and Naval Forces of the United States\". He was released on $5,000 bail. In separate cases that year, Reed stood trial with Eastman, Floyd Dell, and others from the former staff of \"The Masses\" for conspiracy to obstruct the draft of men to fight in World War I and for other alleged offenses related to published articles and cartoons; Reed's alleged crime in the latter case was that he had written a headline, \"Knit a Strait-Jacket for Your Soldier Boy\", for an article about mental illness among the U.S. troops. Bryant was questioned in \"The Masses\" cases but not charged. Both trials involving \"The Masses\" ended in hung juries, and the defendants were set free. In October, Bryant's first book, \"Six Red Months in Russia\", was published to \"mostly favorable reviews,\" and Reed resumed work on \"Ten Days That Shook the World\" after the government returned his notes. It would not be published until April 1919.\nIn February 1919, while still based in New York, Bryant went to Washington, D.C., to speak, along with Albert Rhys Williams, about the situation in Russia. She stayed in Washington long enough to participate in a National Woman's Party suffrage rally, during which she was arrested, arraigned, and sentenced to five days in jail. The specific charges against her and others, who had burned President Woodrow Wilson in effigy on the White House lawn, were \"building fires on government property, standing on the coping around the White House, or attempting to make disorderly speeches.\" Among a group of women who refused bail, she spent at least three days in jail, during which she took part in a hunger strike. Upon her release, she insisted on testifying as an unfriendly witness before the Overman Committee, which had been set up to investigate Bolshevik activity in the United States. Deflecting questions about her religious beliefs, marriages, and other personal matters during her two days of testimony, she tried to convince the subcommittee, led by Senator Lee S. Overman, that Russia had a right to self-determination. Soon thereafter, she began a cross-country speaking tour, \"The Truth About Russia\", arranged by Anna Louise Strong, during which she addressed large audiences in Detroit, Chicago, Spokane, Seattle, San Francisco, Los Angeles, and other American cities. According to Gardner, Bryant was the first woman to defend Lenin and Trotsky at political gatherings across the United States. Gardner writes, \"Her message was simple, 'Hands off Russia!' 'Bring the boys home!'\"\n\nAfter Bryant returned from her lecture tour in May, she and Reed spent the next few months mainly in Croton-on-Hudson writing, gardening, and in Reed's case, recuperating from influenza. In late August, Reed, who had joined the Socialist Party of America, was chosen by one of its factions, the Communist Labor Party of America (CLP), to visit Moscow to seek recognition for the CLP as the sole representative of the Communist International (Comintern) in the United States. Unlike Reed, Bryant avoided party membership. The U.S. government quickly outlawed the CLP and its competitor, the American Communist Party, headed by Louis Fraina. In danger of being arrested and unable to get a passport to go to Russia, Reed, disguised as a stoker, left the United States in late September 1919 on a Scandinavian ship headed for Europe. During the Palmer Raids and Red Scare days beginning in November 1919, he was charged with conspiring to overthrow the government by force. In March 1920, after visiting Moscow, he was arrested and incarcerated in Finland on his way home. Three months later, he was returned to Moscow in a prisoner exchange between the White (anti-Bolshevik) Finns of the Finnish Civil War and the Bolsheviks. From Reval (Tallinn), Estonia, he cabled Bryant, \"Passport home refused. Temporarily returning headquarters. Come if possible.\" Traveling without passport, Bryant, disguised as the wife of a Swedish businessman, arrived in Petrograd in late August 1920.\n\nWhen Bryant reached Petrograd, Reed was in Baku, attending the \"first congress of peoples of the east\" (Oriental Congress) with the Comintern executive committee. He had left a letter for her with several possibilities for lodging, one of which was a room he had arranged for her at the Dielovoy Hotel in Moscow. This is where, on September 15, they finally reconnected, spending the next few days together and visiting Lenin, Trotsky, Hungarian revolutionary Béla Kun, and Enver Pasha, a former minister of war in the Ottoman Empire. Bryant began filing Moscow news stories with the International News Service, which had hired her before she left New York.\n\nA week after Reed's return from Baku, he began to experience dizziness and headaches, thought at first to be symptoms of influenza. Five days later, when he became delirious, doctors diagnosed typhus and sent him to the hospital. There, with Bryant by his side, he died on October 17, 1920, a few days shy of his 33rd birthday. On the day of Reed's funeral, in keeping with Russian custom, Bryant walked alone behind the hearse, at the head of the funeral procession. Fainting during the burial, she awoke in her hotel room. Among those at her bedside were Emma Goldman and Alexander Berkman, who had been arrested in the United States and deported to Russia in late 1919.\n\nAfter Reed's death, Bryant obtained Lenin's approval for a trip to the southern Russian border and neighboring countries. She went by train over the Kazakh Steppe, through areas hard hit by famine, to Tashkent and Bukhara and to the borders of Iran and Afghanistan, interviewing and taking notes.\nShe returned to the U.S. in mid-summer 1921, and stayed for about a year, during which she first met William Christian Bullitt, Jr., then managing editor of film stories at Paramount, to try to persuade him to make \"Ten Days That Shook the World\" into a film. Bullitt, a Yale University graduate from a Philadelphia family of great wealth, had worked as a journalist specializing in foreign affairs, then as a diplomat in the United States Department of State before retiring temporarily from politics and taking the Paramount job. He later returned to politics and became the first U.S. ambassador to the Soviet Union. Bryant and Bullet had in common their interests in Russia, journalism, and Jack Reed, whom Bullitt greatly admired. Although Paramount did not pursue the \"Ten Days\" project, Bullitt was charmed by Bryant and began the amorous pursuit of her that two years later ended in marriage. In August, the \"New York American\", a Hearst newspaper, began publishing a series of 16 of Bryant's articles describing famine in Russia, Lenin's New Economic Policy, the end of the Russian Civil War, and related topics. In general, the tone of these articles was \"sober and at times unsparing, in contrast to her often rapturous reporting in her 1918 stories.\"\n\nIn October, she was the main speaker at a memorial for Reed in New York City, and she spent some of her time collecting Reed's papers for possible publication. She also arranged with King Features Syndicate, another Hearst agency, to return to Russia to write portraits of Russians. The first of these appeared in print in June 1922 and led to her second book, \"Mirrors of Moscow\", in 1923. Bryant's travels in Europe this time included Moscow, Berlin, London, Paris, and other cities. By late October, she was in Rome, accompanied by Bullitt. Here in late 1922, she wrote about Benito Mussolini, the Fascist leader who had just come to power and with whom she had obtained an interview. Gathering material from a variety of sources, including Madame Rachele Mussolini, Bryant wrote a feature article, \"Mussolini Relies Upon Efficiency to Restore Italy\", published in the \"New York American\" in early 1923. She described the future dictator this way:\nI will always think of Mussolini as one of the oddest characters in history, and I will remember him as I last saw him in the great white and gold foyer of the Grand Hotel, under a huge crystal candelabra slouching wearily into a graceful Louis XV ivory and enameled chair.\n\nHis pale, heavy-boned face showed signs of sleeplessness. His strong body was bulging over the sides of the seat; his legs were spread wide over the pale, rose-colored velvet carpet. There was a little cup of black coffee, absurdly delicate, beside his gnarled work-warped hand.\nLeaving Rome to cover the Turkish War of Independence for the International News Service, Bryant lived with Bullitt in a villa in Constantinople in early 1923. While Bullitt worked on a novel, \"It's Not Done\", published in 1926 and dedicated to Bryant, she covered events related to the rise of Mustafa Kemal Atatürk, the first president of the Republic of Turkey. From her base in Turkey, she ventured to Palermo to interview the deposed king of Greece, Constantine I, and to Athens to interview his son, George II. Shortly thereafter, Bryant suspended her journalistic career to focus on family matters.\n\nLater in 1923, Bryant and Bullitt moved to Paris, where they married in December. Two months later, Bryant gave birth to her only child, Anne Moen Bullitt (1924–2007). In 1925 she and Bullitt added to their family an 8-year-old boy, Refik Ismaili Bey, whom they had met in Turkey. As the wife of a rich man, Bryant had duties related to the running of an upper-class household: \"...the management of servants, the ordering of food and planning of menus, house decoration, flower arrangement, keeping a social calendar.\" She told one visitor to her home that she considered her new life \"useless\", and the Bryant–Bullitt marriage began to unravel. In \"Louise Bryant Grows Old\", historian Christine Stansell examines the great changes in Bryant's life after her marriage to Bullitt:\n\nThe entrance of William Bullitt into Louise Bryant's life confounds the intertwined stories of the grief-stricken war widow, the radical heroine, and the champion of the oppressed. The marriage is a puzzle, both biographically and historically. Biographically, it proved to be a disaster, in contrast to Bryant's earlier romantic choices, which had been smart and fulfilling.\n\nAlthough Bryant continued to write, little of her work toward the end of her life was published. Her last piece of journalism, \"A Turkish Divorce\", about Atatürk's treatment of women, appeared in \"The Nation\" in August 1925.\n\nBy 1926, Bryant, who had generally abstained from alcohol earlier in life, was suffering from painful and incurable adiposis dolorosa (Dercum's disease) and was drinking heavily. Bullitt, citing his wife's drinking and alleging that she was involved in a lesbian relationship with Gwen Le Gallienne, a stepdaughter of writer Richard Le Gallienne, divorced Bryant in 1930 and won sole custody of Anne. Bryant remained in Paris, occasionally advising writer Claude McKay, and briefly assisting researchers from Harvard University in preserving Reed's papers.\n\nBryant died on January 6, 1936, of a brain hemorrhage in Sèvres, in the suburbs of Paris, and is buried in Cimetière des Gonards in Versailles. In 1998, three volunteers from the Oregon Cultural Heritage Commission went to Paris to find the grave, which they discovered was crumbling, undated, and scheduled for removal. Through the commission's efforts as well as donations, including some from relatives of Bryant and Bullitt, the grave was restored.\n\nThe Bryant–Reed story is told in the 1981 film \"Reds\", starring Diane Keaton as Bryant and Warren Beatty as Reed. Supporting actors include Jack Nicholson as Eugene O'Neill, Maureen Stapleton as Emma Goldman, Jerzy Kosiński as Grigory Zinoviev (one of the Bolshevik leaders), and Edward Herrmann as Max Eastman.\n\nBryant's personal papers were transferred to Bullitt, with whom they remained until their daughter, Anne, donated the collection to Yale University in 2004. They exist as separate collections, the Louise Bryant Papers (MS 1840) and the William C. Bullitt Papers (MS 112) in the Sterling Memorial Library at Yale. The Louise Bryant Papers consists of about 19 linear feet (5.8 m) of letters, texts, photographs, art, and other materials that she created or collected between 1916 and 1936.\n\nBryant's early journalistic work appeared in college publications and in newspapers—\"The Spectator\", where Bryant was society editor, and \"The Oregonian\", for whom she freelanced—in Portland. Later work appeared in independent magazines, including \"The Masses\", and \"The Liberator\", Some, written for the \"New York American\" and other Hearst publications, were syndicated to newspapers across North America. Collections of her articles appeared in book form in 1918 and 1923. Below is a partial list of her published work.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23619031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23619031", "title": "Nondegradation standard", "text": "Nondegradation standard\n\nIn United States agricultural policy, a nondegradation standard is defined in the 2002 Farm Bill provisions establishing the Conservation Security Program (CSP; P.L. 107-171, Sec. 2001) to mean the level of measures required to protect and prevent degradation of 1 or more natural resources, as determined by the Natural Resources Conservation Service. Participating farmers’ conservation security plans must address resources of concern and meet the appropriate nondegradation standard.\n"}
{"id": "2384021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2384021", "title": "Potentiality and actuality", "text": "Potentiality and actuality\n\nIn philosophy, potentiality and actuality are a pair of closely connected principles which Aristotle used to analyze motion, causality, ethics, and physiology in his \"Physics\", \"Metaphysics\", \"Nicomachean Ethics\" and \"De Anima\", which is about the human psyche.\n\nThe concept of potentiality, in this context, generally refers to any \"possibility\" that a thing can be said to have. Aristotle did not consider all possibilities the same, and emphasized the importance of those that become real of their own accord when conditions are right and nothing stops them.\nActuality, in contrast to potentiality, is the motion, change or activity that represents an exercise or fulfillment of a possibility, when a possibility becomes real in the fullest sense.\n\nThese concepts, in modified forms, remained very important into the middle ages, influencing the development of medieval theology in several ways. Going further into modern times, while the understanding of nature, and according to some interpretations deity, implied by the dichotomy lost importance, the terminology has found new uses, developing indirectly from the old. This is most obvious in words like \"energy\" and \"dynamic\"--words first used in modern physics by the German scientist and philosopher, Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz. Another example is the highly controversial biological concept of an \"entelechy\".\n\nPotentiality and potency are translations of the Ancient Greek word \"dunamis\" (δύναμις) as it is used by Aristotle as a concept contrasting with actuality. Its Latin translation is \"potentia\", root of the English word potential, and used by some scholars instead of the Greek or English variants.\n\n\"Dunamis\" is an ordinary Greek word for possibility or capability. Depending on context, it could be translated \"potency\", \"potential\", \"capacity\", \"ability\", \"power\", \"capability\", \"strength\", \"possibility\", \"force\" and is the root of modern English words \"dynamic\", \"dynamite\", and \"dynamo\". In early modern philosophy, English authors like Hobbes and Locke used the English word \"power\" as their translation of Latin \"potentia\".\n\nIn his philosophy, Aristotle distinguished two meanings of the word \"dunamis\". According to his understanding of nature there was both a weak sense of potential, meaning simply that something \"might chance to happen or not to happen\", and a stronger sense, to indicate how something could be done \"well\". For example, \"sometimes we say that those who can merely take a walk, or speak, without doing it as well as they intended, cannot speak or walk\". This stronger sense is mainly said of the potentials of living things, although it is also sometimes used for things like musical instruments.\n\nThroughout his works, Aristotle clearly distinguishes things that are stable or persistent, with their own strong natural tendency to a specific type of change, from things that appear to occur by chance. He treats these as having a different and more real existence. \"Natures which persist\" are said by him to be one of the causes of all things, while natures that do not persist, \"might often be slandered as not being at all by one who fixes his thinking sternly upon it as upon a criminal\". The potencies which persist in a particular material are one way of describing \"the nature itself\" of that material, an innate source of motion and rest within that material. In terms of Aristotle's theory of four causes, a material's non-accidental potential, is the material cause of the things that can come to be from that material, and one part of how we can understand the substance (\"ousia\", sometimes translated as \"thinghood\") of any separate thing. (As emphasized by Aristotle, this requires his distinction between accidental causes and natural causes.) According to Aristotle, when we refer to the nature of a thing, we are referring to the form, shape or look of a thing, which was already present as a potential, an innate tendency to change, in that material before it achieved that form, but things show what they are more fully, as a real thing, when they are \"fully at work\".\n\nActuality is often used to translate both \"energeia\" (ενέργεια) and \"entelecheia\" (ἐντελέχεια) (sometimes rendered in English as \"entelechy\"). \"Actuality\" comes from Latin \"\" and is a traditional translation, but its normal meaning in Latin is \"anything which is currently happening\".\n\nThe two words \"energeia\" and \"entelecheia\" were coined by Aristotle, and he stated that their meanings were intended to converge. In practice, most commentators and translators consider the two words to be interchangeable. They both refer to something being in its own type of action or at work, as all things are when they are real in the fullest sense, and not just potentially real. For example, \"to be a rock is to strain to be at the center of the universe, and thus to be in motion unless constrained otherwise\".\n\n\"Energeia\" is a word based upon ἔργον (\"ergon\"), meaning \"work\". It is the source of the modern word \"energy\" but the term has evolved so much over the course of the history of science that reference to the modern term is not very helpful in understanding the original as used by Aristotle. It is difficult to translate his use of \"energeia\" into English with consistency. Joe Sachs renders it with the phrase \"being–at–work\" and says that \"we might construct the word is-at-work-ness from Anglo-Saxon roots to translate \"energeia\" into English\". Aristotle says the word can be made clear by looking at examples rather than trying to find a definition.\n\nTwo examples of \"energeiai\" in Aristotle's works are pleasure and happiness (eudaimonia). Pleasure is an \"energeia\" of the human body and mind whereas happiness is more simply the \"energeia\" of a human being a human.\n\n\"Kinesis\", translated as movement, motion, or in some contexts change, is also explained by Aristotle as a particular type of \"energeia\". See below.\n\nEntelechy, in Greek \"entelécheia\", was coined by Aristotle and transliterated in Latin as \"\". According to :\n\nAristotle invents the word by combining \"entelēs\" (ἐντελής, \"complete, full-grown\") with \"echein\" (<nowiki>=</nowiki> \"hexis\", to be a certain way by the continuing effort of holding on in that condition), while at the same time punning on \"endelecheia\" (ἐνδελέχεια, \"persistence\") by inserting \"telos\" (τέλος, \"completion\"). This is a three-ring circus of a word, at the heart of everything in Aristotle's thinking, including the definition of motion.\n\nSachs therefore proposed a complex neologism of his own, \"being-at-work-staying-the-same\". Another translation in recent years is \"being-at-an-end\" (which Sachs has also used).\n\n\"Entelecheia\", as can be seen by its derivation, is a kind of completeness, whereas \"the end and completion of any genuine being is its being-at-work\" (\"energeia\"). The \"entelecheia\" is a continuous being-at-work (\"energeia\") when something is doing its complete \"work\". For this reason, the meanings of the two words converge, and they both depend upon the idea that every thing's \"thinghood\" is a kind of work, or in other words a specific way of being in motion. All things that exist now, and not just potentially, are beings-at-work, and all of them have a tendency towards being-at-work in a particular way that would be their proper and \"complete\" way.\n\nSachs explains the convergence of \"energeia\" and \"entelecheia\" as follows, and uses the word actuality to describe the overlap between them:\n\nJust as \"energeia\" extends to \"entelecheia\" because it is the activity which makes a thing what it is, \"entelecheia\" extends to \"energeia\" because it is the end or perfection which has being only in, through, and during activity.\n\nAristotle discusses motion (\"kinēsis\") in his \"Physics\" quite differently from modern science. Aristotle's definition of motion is closely connected to his actuality-potentiality distinction. Taken literally, Aristotle defines motion as the actuality (\"entelecheia\") of a \"potentiality as such\". What Aristotle meant however is the subject of several different interpretations. A major difficulty comes from the fact that the terms actuality and potentiality, linked in this definition, are normally understood within Aristotle as opposed to each other. On the other hand, the \"as such\" is important and is explained at length by Aristotle, giving examples of \"potentiality as such\". For example, the motion of building is the \"energeia\" of the \"dunamis\" of the building materials \"as building materials\" as opposed to anything else they might become, and this potential in the unbuilt materials is referred to by Aristotle as \"the buildable\". So the motion of building is the actualization of \"the buildable\" and not the actualization of a house as such, nor the actualization of any other possibility which the building materials might have had.\n\nIn an influential 1969 paper Aryeh Kosman divided up previous attempts to explain Aristotle's definition into two types, criticised them, and then gave his own third interpretation. While this has not become a consensus, it has been described as having become \"orthodox\". This and similar more recent publications are the basis of the following summary.\n\n and associate this approach with W.D. Ross. points out that it was also the interpretation of Averroes and Maimonides.\n\nThis interpretation is, to use the words of Ross that \"it is the passage to actuality that is \"kinesis\"” as opposed to any potentiality being an actuality.\n\nThe argument of Ross for this interpretation requires him to assert that Aristotle actually used his own word \"entelecheia\" wrongly, or inconsistently, only within his definition, making it mean \"actualization\", which is in conflict with Aristotle's normal use of words. According to this explanation also can not account for the \"as such\" in Aristotle's definition.\n\n associates this interpretation with St Thomas of Aquinas and explains that by this explanation \"the apparent contradiction between potentiality and actuality in Aristotle’s definition of motion\" is resolved \"by arguing that in every motion actuality and potentiality are mixed or blended\". Motion is therefore \"the actuality of any potentiality insofar as it is still a potentiality\". Or in other words:\n\nThe Thomistic blend of actuality and potentiality has the characteristic that, to the extent that it is actual it is not potential and to the extent that it is potential it is not actual; the hotter the water is, the less is it potentially hot, and the cooler it is, the less is it actually, the more potentially, hot.\nAs with the first interpretation however, objects that:\n\nOne implication of this interpretation is that whatever happens to be the case right now is an \"entelechia\", as though something that is intrinsically unstable as the instantaneous position of an arrow in flight deserved to be described by the word that everywhere else Aristotle reserves for complex organized states that persist, that hold out against internal and external causes that try to destroy them.\nIn a more recent paper on this subject, Kosman associates the view of Aquinas with those of his own critics, David Charles, Jonathan Beere, and Robert Heineman.\n\n, amongst other authors (such as Aryeh Kosman and Ursula Coope), proposes that the solution to problems interpreting Aristotle's definition must be found in the distinction Aristotle makes between two different types of potentiality, with only one of those corresponding to the \"potentiality as such\" appearing in the definition of motion. He writes:\nThe man with sight, but with his eyes closed, differs from the blind man, although neither is seeing. The first man has the capacity to see, which the second man lacks. There are then potentialities as well as actualities in the world. But when the first man opens his eyes, has he lost the capacity to see? Obviously not; while he is seeing, his capacity to see is no longer merely a potentiality, but is a potentiality which has been put to work. The potentiality to see exists sometimes as active or at-work, and sometimes as inactive or latent.\n\nComing to motion, Sachs gives the example of a man walking across the room and says that...\n\n, in his commentary of Aristotle's \"Physics\" book III gives the following results from his understanding of Aristotle's definition of motion:\nThe genus of which motion is a species is being-at-work-staying-itself (\"entelecheia\"), of which the only other species is thinghood. The being-at-work-staying-itself of a potency (\"dunamis\"), as material, is thinghood. The being-at-work-staying-the-same of a potency as a potency is motion.\n\nThe actuality-potentiality distinction in Aristotle is a key element linked to everything in his physics and metaphysics.\n\nAristotle describes potentiality and actuality, or potency and action, as one of several distinctions between things that exist or do not exist. In a sense, a thing that exists potentially does not exist, but the potential does exist. And this type of distinction is expressed for several different types of being within Aristotle's categories of being. For example, from Aristotle's \"Metaphysics\", 1017a:\n\nWithin the works of Aristotle the terms \"energeia\" and \"entelecheia\", often translated as actuality, differ from what is merely actual because they specifically presuppose that all things have a proper kind of activity or work which, if achieved, would be their proper end. Greek for end in this sense is telos, a component word in \"entelecheia\" (a work that is the proper end of a thing) and also teleology. This is an aspect of Aristotle's theory of four causes and specifically of formal cause (\"eidos\", which Aristotle says is \"energeia\") and final cause (\"telos\").\n\nIn essence this means that Aristotle did not see things as matter in motion only, but also proposed that all things have their own aims or ends. In other words, for Aristotle (unlike modern science) there is a distinction between things with a natural cause in the strongest sense, and things that truly happen by accident. He also distinguishes non-rational from rational potentialities (e.g. the capacity to heat and the capacity to play the flute, respectively), pointing out that the latter require desire or deliberate choice for their actualization. Because of this style of reasoning, Aristotle is often referred to as having a teleology, and sometimes as having a theory of forms.\n\nWhile actuality is linked by Aristotle to his concept of a formal cause, potentiality (or potency) on the other hand, is linked by Aristotle to his concepts of hylomorphic matter and material cause. Aristotle wrote for example that \"matter exists potentially, because it may attain to the form; but when it exists actually, it is then in the form\".\n\nThe active intellect was a concept Aristotle described that requires an understanding of the actuality-potentiality dichotomy. Aristotle described this in his \"De Anima\" (book 3, ch. 5, 430a10-25) and covered similar ground in his \"Metaphysics\" (book 12, ch.7-10). The following is from the \"De Anima\", translated by Joe Sachs, with some parenthetic notes about the Greek. The passage tries to explain \"how the human intellect passes from its original state, in which it does not think, to a subsequent state, in which it does.\" He inferred that the energeia/dunamis distinction must also exist in the soul itself:-\n...since in nature one thing is the material [\"hulē\"] for each kind [\"genos\"] (this is what is in potency all the particular things of that kind) but it is something else that is the causal and productive thing by which all of them are formed, as is the case with an art in relation to its material, it is necessary in the soul [\"psuchē\"] too that these distinct aspects be present;\nthe one sort is intellect [\"nous\"] by becoming all things, the other sort by forming all things, in the way an active condition [\"hexis\"] like light too makes the colors that are in potency be at work as colors [\"to phōs poiei ta dunamei onta chrōmata energeiai chrōmata\"].\nThis sort of intellect is separate, as well as being without attributes and unmixed, since it is by its thinghood a being-at-work, for what acts is always distinguished in stature above what is acted upon, as a governing source is above the material it works on.\nKnowledge [\"epistēmē\"], in its being-at-work, is the same as the thing it knows, and while knowledge in potency comes first in time in any one knower, in the whole of things it does not take precedence even in time.\nThis does not mean that at one time it thinks but at another time it does not think, but when separated it is just exactly what it is, and this alone is deathless and everlasting (though we have no memory, because this sort of intellect is not acted upon, while the sort that is acted upon is destructible), and without this nothing thinks.\n\nThis has been referred to as one of \"the most intensely studied sentences in the history of philosophy\". In the \"Metaphysics\", Aristotle wrote at more length on a similar subject and is often understood to have equated the active intellect with being the \"unmoved mover\" and God. Nevertheless, as Davidson remarks:\nJust what Aristotle meant by potential intellect and active intellect - terms not even explicit in the \"De anima\" and at best implied - and just how he understood the interaction between them remains moot to this day. Students of the history of philosophy continue to debate Aristotle's intent, particularly the question whether he considered the active intellect to be an aspect of the human soul or an entity existing independently of man.\n\nAlready in Aristotle's own works, the concept of a distinction between \"energeia\" and \"dunamis\" was used in many ways, for example to describe the way striking metaphors work, or human happiness. Polybius about 150 BC, in his work the \"Histories\" uses Aristotle's word \"energeia\" in both an Aristotelian way and also to describe the \"clarity and vividness\" of things. Diodorus Siculus in 60-30 BC used the term in a very similar way to Polybius. However Diodorus uses the term to denote qualities unique to individuals. Using the term in ways that could translated as \"vigor\" or \"energy\" (in a more modern sense); for society, \"practice\" or \"custom\"; for a thing, \"operation\" or \"working\"; like vigor in action.\n\nPlotinus was a late classical pagan philosopher and theologian whose monotheistic re-workings of Plato and Aristotle were influential amongst early Christian theologians. In his \"Enneads\" he sought to reconcile ideas of Aristotle and Plato together with a form of monotheism, that used three fundamental metaphysical principles, which were conceived of in terms consistent with Aristotle's energeia/dunamis dichotomy, and one interpretation of his concept of the Active Intellect (discussed above):-\nThis was based largely upon Plotinus' reading of Plato, but also incorporated many Aristotelian concepts, including the Unmoved Mover as \"energeia\".\n\nIn Eastern Orthodox Christianity, St Gregory Palamas wrote about the \"energies\" (actualities; singular \"energeia\" in Greek, or \"actus\" in Latin) of God in contrast to God's \"essence\" (\"ousia\"). These are two distinct types of existence, with God's energy being the type of existence which people can perceive, while the essence of God is outside of normal existence or non-existence or human understanding, in that it is not caused or created by anything else.\n\nPalamas gave this explanation as part of his defense of the Eastern Orthodox ascetic practice of hesychasm. Palamism became a standard part of Orthodox dogma after 1351.\n\nIn contrast, the position of Western Medieval (or Catholic) Christianity, can be found for example in the philosophy of Thomas Aquinas, who relied on Aristotle's concept of entelechy, when he defined God as \"actus purus\", pure act, actuality unmixed with potentiality. The existence of a truly distinct essence of God which is not actuality, is not generally accepted in Catholic Theology.\n\nThe notion of possibility was greatly analyzed by medieval and modern philosophers. Aristotle's logical work in this area is considered by some to be an anticipation of modal logic and its treatment of potentiality and time. Indeed, many philosophical interpretations of possibility are related to a famous passage on Aristotle's \"On Interpretation\", concerning the truth of the statement: \"There will be a sea battle tomorrow\".\n\nContemporary philosophy regards possibility, as studied by modal metaphysics, to be an aspect of modal logic. Modal logic as a named subject owes much to the writings of the Scholastics, in particular William of Ockham and John Duns Scotus, who reasoned informally in a modal manner, mainly to analyze statements about essence and accident.\n\nAristotle's metaphysics, his account of nature and causality, was for the most part rejected by the early modern philosophers. Francis Bacon in his \"Novum Organon\" in one explanation of the case for rejecting the concept of a formal cause or \"nature\" for each type of thing, argued for example that philosophers must still look for formal causes but only in the sense of \"simple natures\" such as colour, and weight, which exist in many gradations and modes in very different types of individual bodies. In the works of Thomas Hobbes then, the traditional Aristotelian terms, \"potentia et actus\", are discussed, but he equates them simply to \"cause and effect\".\n\nThere was an adaptation of at least one aspect of Aristotle's potentiality and actuality distinction, which has become part of modern physics, although as per Bacon's approach it is a generalized form of energy, not one connected to specific forms for specific things. The definition of energy in modern physics as the product of mass and the square of velocity, was derived by Leibniz, as a correction of Descartes, based upon Galileo's investigation of falling bodies. He preferred to refer to it as an \"entelecheia\" or \"living force\" (Latin \"vis viva\"), but what he defined is today called \"kinetic energy\", and was seen by Leibniz as a modification of Aristotle's \"energeia\", and his concept of the potential for movement which is in things. Instead of each type of physical thing having its own specific tendency to a way of moving or changing, as in Aristotle, Leibniz said that instead, force, power, or motion itself could be transferred between things of different types, in such a way that there is a general conservation of this energy. In other words, Leibniz's modern version of entelechy or energy obeys its own laws of nature, whereas different types of things do not have their own separate laws of nature. Leibniz wrote: ...the entelechy of Aristotle, which has made so much noise, is nothing else but force or activity ; that is, a state from which action naturally flows if nothing hinders it. But matter, primary and pure, taken without the souls or lives which are united to it, is purely passive ; properly speaking also it is not a substance, but something incomplete.\n\nLeibniz's study of the \"entelechy\" now known as energy was a part of what he called his new science of \"dynamics\", based on the Greek word \"dunamis\" and his understanding that he was making a modern version of Aristotle's old dichotomy. He also referred to it as the \"new science of power and action\", (Latin \"\"potentia et effectu\" and \"potentia et actione\"\"). And it is from him that the modern distinction between statics and dynamics in physics stems. The emphasis on \"dunamis\" in the name of this new science comes from the importance of his discovery of potential energy which is not active, but which conserves energy nevertheless. \"As 'a science of power and action', dynamics arises when Leibniz proposes an adequate architectonic of laws for constrained, as well as unconstrained, motions.\"\n\nFor Leibniz, like Aristotle, this law of nature concerning entelechies was also understood as a metaphysical law, important not only for physics, but also for understanding life and the soul. A soul, or spirit, according to Leibniz, can be understood as a type of entelechy (or living monad) which has distinct perceptions and memory.\n\nAs discussed above, terms derived from \"dunamis\" and \"energeia\" have become parts of modern scientific vocabulary with a very different meaning from Aristotle's. The original meanings are not used by modern philosophers unless they are commenting on classical or medieval philosophy. In contrast, \"entelecheia\", in the form of \"entelechy\" is a word used much less in technical senses in recent times.\n\nAs mentioned above, the concept had occupied a central position in the metaphysics of Leibniz, and is closely related to his monad in the sense that each sentient entity contains its own entire universe within it. But Leibniz' use of this concept influenced more than just the development of the vocabulary of modern physics. Leibniz was also one of the main inspirations for the important movement in philosophy known as German Idealism, and within this movement and schools influenced by it entelechy may denote a force propelling one to self-fulfillment.\n\nIn the biological vitalism of Hans Driesch, living things develop by \"entelechy\", a common purposive and organising field. Leading vitalists like Driesch argued that many of the basic problems of biology cannot be solved by a philosophy in which the organism is simply considered a machine. Vitalism and its concepts like entelechy have since been discarded as without value for scientific practice by the overwhelming majority of professional biologists. \n\nHowever, in philosophy aspects and applications of the concept of entelechy have been explored by scientifically interested philosophers and philosophically inclined scientists alike. One example was the American critic and philosopher Kenneth Burke (1897–1993) whose concept of the \"terministic screens\" illustrates his thought on the subject. Most prominent was perhaps the German quantum physicist Werner Heisenberg. He looked to the notions of potentiality and actuality in order to better understand the relationship of quantum theory to the world.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38327248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38327248", "title": "R v Savage", "text": "R v Savage\n\nR v Savage [1992] UKHL 1 is a House of Lords case in English law on establishing mens rea of assault. \n\nThe defendant, Susan Savage, threw a beer over another woman, Tracey Beal, who was a former girlfriend of Mrs Savage's husband, in a pub on the evening of 31 March 1989. Mrs Savage had in her hand a full pint of beer before she threw the content over Miss Beal; in doing so the glass slipped from Savage's hand and cut Beal's wrist. The defendant claimed that she had only intended to throw the contents of the beer. It was never her intention or her realization that there was risk of injury in her action. The jury by their verdict concluded that Mrs Savage had deliberately thrown not only the beer but the glass at Miss Beal or while throwing the beer, the glass had slipped off her grip and had struck injured Miss Beal. In any of this instance, the jury concluded there was Mrs Savage had no intention that the glass would injure Miss Beal. Mrs Savage was convicted under s20 of Offences against the Person Act 1861 (OAPA 1861) 1861.\n\nThe Court of Appeal quashed the conviction of s20 by substituting it with a conviction under s47 OAPA 1861 Assault occasioning actual bodily harm. Mrs Savage appealed this decision to the House of Lords which dismissed her appeal. \n"}
{"id": "9078936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9078936", "title": "Ralph Holloway", "text": "Ralph Holloway\n\nRalph Leslie Holloway, Jr. (born 1935) is a physical anthropologist at Columbia University and research associate with the American Museum of Natural History. Since obtaining his Ph.D from the University of California, Berkeley in 1964, Holloway has served as a professor of anthropology at Columbia. Holloway's interests lie in craniology, producing endocasts, primate behavior, biology of gender, sexual dimorphism in the corpus callosum, and other topics.\n\nHolloway's work on the Taung Child was one of the first to suggest brain reorganization occurring before the increase of brain size in hominids. His claim that the lunate sulcus, a sulcus which marks the boundary of the occipital lobe, was in a posterior position to that of apes suggests that the reduction of the occipital lobe was accompanied by enlargements of parts of the brain associated with higher cognitive function.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51151663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51151663", "title": "RepRap Morgan", "text": "RepRap Morgan\n\nThe RepRap Morgan is an open-source fused deposition modeling 3D printer. The Morgan is part of the RepRap project and has an unusual SCARA arm design. The first Morgan printer was designed by Quentin Harley, a South African engineer (working for Siemens at the time) at the House4Hack Makerspace in Centurion. The SCARA arm design was developed due to the lack of access to components of existing 3D printer designs in South Africa and their relatively high cost. In 2013 the Morgan won the HumanityPlus Uplift Personal Manufacturing Prize and third place in the Gauteng Accelerator Program.\n\nThe Morgan name comes from the RepRap convention of naming printers after famous deceased biologists. The Morgan printers was named after Thomas Hunt Morgan. He worked on the genome of the common fruitfly with his wife, Lilian Vaughan Morgan. Their names were used in the development codenames for the first two generations of Morgan 3D Printers.\n\nMorgan printers are now manufactured full-time by the inventor in a small workshop factory in the House4Hack makerspace.\n\nThere are four versions of the RepRap Morgan, the Morgan v1 (codenamed Thomas), Morgan Pro, Morgan Mega and Morgan Pro 2 (codenamed Lilian).\n\n"}
{"id": "15676230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15676230", "title": "Retention and protention", "text": "Retention and protention\n\nRetention and protention () are key aspects of Edmund Husserl's phenomenology of temporality. \n\nOur experience of the world is not of a series of unconnected moments. Indeed, it would be impossible to have an experience of the world if we did not have a sense of temporality. That our perception brings an impression to our minds depends upon retention and protention. \n\nRetention is the process whereby a phase of a perceptual act is retained in our consciousness. It is a presentation of that which is no longer before us and is distinct from immediate experience. A simple example might be that of watching a ball being thrown. We retain where the ball was in our minds to understand the momentum of the ball as we perceive it in the immediate present. Retention is not a representation or memory but a presentation of a temporally extended present. That is, a present that extends beyond the few short milliseconds that are registered in a moment of sense perception. \n\nProtention is our anticipation of the next moment. The moment that has yet to be perceived. Again, using the example of a ball, our focus shifts along the expected path the ball will take. \n\nAccording to Husserl, perception has three temporal aspects, retention, the immediate present and protention and a flow through which each moment of protention becomes the retention of the next.\n\nMaurice Merleau-Ponty describes the temporal phenomenology of perception in the Phenomenology of Perception as follows:\n\"Husserl uses the terms protentions and retentions for the intentionalities which anchor me to an environment. They do not run from a central I, but from my perceptual field itself, so to speak, which draws along in its wake its own horizon of retentions, and bites into the future with its protentions. I do not pass through a series of instances of now, the images of which I preserve and which, placed end to end, make a line. With the arrival of every moment, its predecessor undergoes a change: I still have it in hand and it is still there, but already it is sinking away below the level of presents; in order to retain it, I need to reach through a thin layer of time. It is still the preceding moment, and I have the power to rejoin it as it was just now; I am not cut off from it, but still it would not belong to the past unless something had altered, unless it were beginning to outline itself against, or project itself upon, my present, whereas a moment ago it was my present. When a third moment arrives, the second undergoes a new modification; from being a retention it becomes the retention of a retention, and the layer of time between it and me thickens.\"\nInteresting links with this theory come from current neuroscience which shows that present, past and future are always intertwined, also in memory. Accordingly, “memory is not only about the past, but is also about the future. Indeed, while memory serves as the ability to recall previous experiences, recall itself is not solely directed toward the past, but is guided by the present for the service of the future”.\n\n"}
{"id": "875329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=875329", "title": "Robert Phillipson", "text": "Robert Phillipson\n\nRobert Henry Lawrence Phillipson (born 18 March 1942 in Gourock, Scotland) is Research Professor at Copenhagen Business School's Department of English. He is perhaps best known for writing \"Linguistic Imperialism\" and \"English-Only Europe?: Challenging Language Policy\" (translated in Esperanto by István Ertl: \"Ĉu nur-angla Eŭropo? Defio al lingva politiko\"). He graduated as an undergraduate from Cambridge University\n\nHe got his PhD from the University of Amsterdam and his interests include language pedagogy, language policy, and linguistic human rights.\n\nOn 21 February 2010, Phillipson was awarded the Linguapax Prize along with Miquel Siguan i Soler. Linguapax Institute describes them as \"renowned advocates of multilingual education as a factor of peace and of linguistic rights against cultural and linguistic homogenization processes\". \n\n"}
{"id": "3213223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3213223", "title": "Schwarz reflection principle", "text": "Schwarz reflection principle\n\nIn mathematics, applying the Schwarz reflection principle is a way to extend the domain of definition of an analytic function of a complex variable, \"F\", which is defined on the upper half-plane and has well-defined and real number boundary values on the real axis. In that case, the putative extension of \"F\" to the rest of the complex plane is\n\nor\n\nThat is, we make the definition that agrees along the real axis.\n\nThe result proved by Hermann Schwarz is as follows. Suppose that \"F\" is a continuous function on the closed upper half plane formula_3, holomorphic on the upper half plane formula_4, which takes real values on the real axis. Then the extension formula given above is an analytic continuation to the whole complex plane.\n\nIn practice it would be better to have a theorem that allows \"F\" certain singularities, for example \"F\" a meromorphic function. To understand such extensions, one needs a proof method that can be weakened. In fact Morera's theorem is well adapted to proving such statements. Contour integrals involving the extension of \"F\" clearly split into two, using part of the real axis. So, given that the principle is rather easy to prove in the special case from Morera's theorem, understanding the proof is enough to generate other results.\n\nThe principle also adapts to apply to harmonic functions.\n\n"}
{"id": "113365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=113365", "title": "Self-evidence", "text": "Self-evidence\n\nIn epistemology (theory of knowledge), a self-evident proposition is a proposition that is known to be true by understanding its meaning without proof, and/or by ordinary human reason.\n\nSome epistemologists deny that any proposition can be self-evident. For most others, one's belief that oneself is conscious is offered as an example of self-evidence. However, one's belief that someone else is conscious is not epistemically self-evident.\n\nThe following proposition is often said to be self-evident:\n\nAlso self evident is the statement that two plus two is equal to four.\n\nA logical argument for a self-evident conclusion would demonstrate only an ignorance of the purpose of persuasively arguing for the conclusion based on one or more premises that differ from it (see \"ignoratio elenchi\" and begging the question).\n\nIt is sometimes said that a self-evident proposition is one whose denial is self-contradictory. It is also sometimes said that an analytic proposition is one whose denial is self-contradictory. But the concepts mean different things.\n\nProvided that one understands and believes a self-evident proposition, self-evident propositions are not in need of proof. Likewise, that their denial is self-contradictory does not have to be proven. It is in this sense that the self-contradictions at work in self-evident and analytic propositions are different.\n\nNot all analytic propositions are self-evident, and it is sometimes claimed that not all self-evident propositions are analytic: e.g. my knowledge that I am conscious.\n\nClaims of \"self-evidence\" also exist outside of epistemology.\n\nIn informal speech, \"self-evident\" often merely means \"obvious\", but the epistemological definition is more strict.\n\nMoral propositions may also be regarded as self-evident. For example, Alexander Hamilton cited the following moral propositions as self-evident in the Federalist No. 37:\n\nA famous claim of the self-evidence of a moral truth is in the United States Declaration of Independence, which states, \"We hold these Truths to be \"self-evident\", that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights, that among these are Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness.\"; philosophically, these propositions' self-evidence is debatable.\n\nAnother classic example in epistemology are the claims by the Vedas (Vedanta) to be self-evident.\n\n"}
{"id": "2150485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2150485", "title": "Short shackling", "text": "Short shackling\n\nShort shackling is a technique that American interrogators have been reported to use in the War on Terror. According to a military report the suspect's hands are shackled to an eyebolt on the floor, so that the suspect is forced to lie in a fetal position or squatting position. It is believed that the suspect's feet are also bound to the eyebolt, similar to hogtying, but this has not been confirmed in any government reports. This interrogation technique can cause flesh wounds.\n"}
{"id": "247365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=247365", "title": "Simulated reality", "text": "Simulated reality\n\nSimulated reality is the hypothesis that reality could be simulated—for example by quantum computer simulation—to a degree indistinguishable from \"true\" reality. It could contain conscious minds which may or may not be fully aware that they are living inside a simulation. This is quite different from the current, technologically achievable concept of virtual reality. Virtual reality is easily distinguished from the experience of actuality; participants are never in doubt about the nature of what they experience. Simulated reality, by contrast, would be hard or impossible to separate from \"true\" reality. There has been much debate over this topic, ranging from philosophical discourse to practical applications in computing.\n\nA version of the simulation hypothesis was first theorised as a part of a philosophical argument on the part of René Descartes, and later by Hans Moravec. The philosopher Nick Bostrom developed an expanded argument examining the probability of our reality being a simulation. His argument states that at least one of the following statements is very likely to be true:\n\nBostrom's argument rests on the premise that given sufficiently advanced technology, it is possible to represent the populated surface of the Earth without recourse to digital physics; that the qualia experienced by a simulated consciousness are comparable or equivalent to those of a naturally occurring human consciousness, and that one or more levels of simulation within simulations would be feasible given only a modest expenditure of computational resources in the real world.\n\nIf one assumes first that humans will not be destroyed nor destroy themselves before developing such a technology, and that human descendants will have no overriding legal restrictions or moral compunctions against simulating biospheres or their own historical biosphere, then, Bostrom argues, it would be unreasonable to count ourselves among the small minority of genuine organisms who, sooner or later, will be vastly outnumbered by artificial simulations.\n\nEpistemologically, it is not impossible to tell whether we are living in a simulation. For example, Bostrom suggests that a window could \"pop up\" saying: \"You are living in a simulation. Click here for more information.\" However, imperfections in a simulated environment might be difficult for the native inhabitants to identify and for purposes of authenticity, even the simulated memory of a blatant revelation might be purged programmatically. Nonetheless, should any evidence come to light, either for or against the skeptical hypothesis, it would radically alter the aforementioned probability.\n\nComputationalism is a philosophy of mind theory stating that cognition is a form of computation. It is relevant to the Simulation hypothesis in that it illustrates how a simulation could contain conscious subjects, as required by a \"virtual people\" simulation. For example, it is well known that physical systems can be simulated to some degree of accuracy. If computationalism is correct and if there is no problem in generating artificial consciousness or cognition, it would establish the theoretical possibility of a simulated reality. Nevertheless, the relationship between cognition and phenomenal qualia of consciousness is disputed. It is possible that consciousness requires a vital substrate that a computer cannot provide and that simulated people, while behaving appropriately, would be philosophical zombies. This would undermine Nick Bostrom's simulation argument; we cannot be a simulated consciousness, if consciousness, as we know it, cannot be simulated. The skeptical hypothesis remains intact, however, and we could still be envatted brains, existing as conscious beings within a simulated environment, even if consciousness cannot be simulated. It has been suggested that whereas virtual reality would enable a participant to experience only three senses (sight, sound and optionally smell), simulated reality would enable all five (including taste and touch).\n\nSome theorists have argued that if the \"consciousness-is-computation\" version of computationalism and mathematical realism (or radical mathematical Platonism) are true then consciousnesses is computation, which in principle is platform independent and thus admits of simulation. This argument states that a \"Platonic realm\" or ultimate ensemble would contain every algorithm, including those which implement consciousness. Hans Moravec has explored the simulation hypothesis and has argued for a kind of mathematical Platonism according to which every object (including, for example, a stone) can be regarded as implementing every possible computation.\n\nA dream could be considered a type of simulation capable of fooling someone who is asleep. As a result, the \"dream hypothesis\" cannot be ruled out, although it has been argued that common sense and considerations of simplicity rule against it. One of the first philosophers to question the distinction between reality and dreams was Zhuangzi, a Chinese philosopher from the 4th century BC. He phrased the problem as the well-known \"Butterfly Dream,\" which went as follows:\nOnce Zhuangzi dreamt he was a butterfly, a butterfly flitting and fluttering around, happy with himself and doing as he pleased. He didn't know he was Zhuangzi. Suddenly he woke up and there he was, solid and unmistakable Zhuangzi. But he didn't know if he was Zhuangzi who had dreamt he was a butterfly or a butterfly dreaming he was Zhuangzi. Between Zhuangzi and a butterfly there must be \"some\" distinction! This is called the Transformation of Things. (2, tr. Burton Watson 1968:49)\nThe philosophical underpinnings of this argument are also brought up by Descartes, who was one of the first Western philosophers to do so. In \"Meditations on First Philosophy\", he states \"... there are no certain indications by which we may clearly distinguish wakefulness from sleep\", and goes on to conclude that \"It is possible that I am dreaming right now and that all of my perceptions are false\".\n\nChalmers (2003) discusses the dream hypothesis and notes that this comes in two distinct forms:\n\nBoth the dream argument and the simulation hypothesis can be regarded as skeptical hypotheses; however in raising these doubts, just as Descartes noted that his own thinking led him to be convinced of his own existence, the existence of the argument itself is testament to the possibility of its own truth. Another state of mind in which some argue an individual's perceptions have no physical basis in the real world is called psychosis though psychosis may have a physical basis in the real world and explanations vary.\n\nThe dream hypothesis is also used to develop other philosophical concepts, such as Valberg's personal horizon: what this world would be internal to if \"this\" were all a dream.\n\nThe existence of simulated reality is unprovable in any concrete sense: any \"evidence\" that is directly observed could be another simulation itself. In other words, there is an infinite regress problem with the argument. Even if we are a simulated reality, there is no way to be sure the beings running the simulation are not themselves a simulation and the operators of \"that\" simulation are not a simulation.\n\n\" involves a simulation or an entity in the simulation, creating another instance of the same simulation, running it and using its results\" (Pooch and Sullivan 2000).\n\nBesides attempting to assess whether the simulation hypothesis is true or false, philosophers have also used it to illustrate other philosophical problems, especially in metaphysics and epistemology. David Chalmers has argued that simulated beings might wonder whether their mental lives are governed by the physics of their environment, when in fact these mental lives are simulated separately (and are thus, in fact, not governed by the simulated physics). They might eventually find that their thoughts fail to be physically caused. Chalmers argues that this means that Cartesian dualism is not necessarily as problematic of a philosophical view as is commonly supposed, though he does not endorse it.\n\nSimilarly, Vincent Conitzer has used the following computer simulation scenarios to illuminate further facts—facts that do not follow logically from the physical facts—about qualia (what it is \"like\" to have specific experiences), indexicality (what time it is \"now\" and who \"I\" am), and personal identity. Imagine a person in the real world who is observing a simulated world on a screen, from the perspective of one of the simulated agents in it. (This is not the kind of simulated reality that is the topic of this article, but we will get to such a simulated reality in the next step of the argument.) The person observing knows that besides the code responsible for the physics of the simulation, there must be \"additional\" code that determines in which colors the simulation is displayed on the screen, and which agent's perspective is displayed. (These questions are related to the inverted spectrum scenario and whether there are further facts about personal identity.) That is, the person can conclude that the facts about the physics of the simulation (which are completely captured by the code governing the physics) do not fully determine her experience by themselves. But then, Conitzer argues, imagine someone who has become so engrossed in the simulation that she has \"forgotten\" that it is a simulation she is watching. For this to be the case, the simulation needs to have an exceptionally high fidelity, bringing us into the territory of simulated reality. (This situation also resembles the one in the dream argument discussed above.) In this case, could she not still reach the same conclusion that the facts about the physics (of the simulated reality, though she does not realize it is simulated) do not fully determine her experience by themselves? And if so, can we not conclude the same in our own daily lives?\n\nSimulated reality in fiction has been explored by many authors, game designers and film directors.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25358361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25358361", "title": "Social construction of schizophrenia", "text": "Social construction of schizophrenia\n\nSocial constructionism, a branch of sociology, queries commonly held views on the nature of reality, touching on themes of normality and abnormality within the context of power and oppression in societal structures.\nThe concept of a social construction of schizophrenia, within a social construction of health and illness notary form, denotes that the label of 'schizophrenia' is one that has been socially constructed through ideological systems, none of which are truly empirical especially as currently there is no definitive evidence as to the cause(s) of schizophrenia.\n\nIn 1966, Berger and Luckman coined the term \"social constructionism\" in their work \"The Social Construction of Reality\". In summary it examines the basis of fact and truth / knowledge within culture. Whilst some 'truths' such as 'fire is hot' are universally agreed as objective, many others considered 'fact' are the result of a common subjective experience and the subsequent validation of that.\n\nWalker has argued that psychiatric diagnoses are nothing but linguistic abstractions. He has criticized the DSM-IV's poor reliability and postulated that terms like 'schizophrenia' and 'mental illness' only exist by consensus and persist by convention. Further he argues that the pathologizing language which persists in the medical model of disability is unuseful in working towards a recovery model.\n\nOther notable practitioners and authors within the humanistic tradition that have viewed schizophrenia as a social construction include psychiatrist Thomas Szasz (1920–2012), Joseph Berke, R.D. Laing, Erich Fromm and Mary Barnes. Szasz viewed the diagnoses as a fabrication that is borderline abusive in terms of treatment. Szasz has protested against the taxonomic classifications of mental illness and reification of these as 'science' and has long argued against institutionalisation as a fundamental deprivation of liberty. In Berke's and Barnes's book \"two accounts of a journey through madness\", Berke explores themes of psychosis as an enriching experience. Berke argues that the invalidation of schizophrenic experiences labelled 'sick or mad' is a uniquely western standpoint insofar as dream states and altered perception are not considered valid modes of interpolation of the truth within westernised culture.\n\nLaing (1964) commented “the mad things done and said by the schizophrenic will remain essentially a closed book if one does not understand their existential context”.\n\nNoll (1983) has explored the links between shamanism and schizophrenia, testing the research evidence on shamanism against the DSM-III diagnostic criterion. Though he draws comparisons between the two states of mind in terms of the phenomenon experienced, he draws out important differences between shamanic and schizophrenic states, notably that many people on the schizophrenic spectrum do not voluntarily enter an altered state of consciousness whereas research into shamanism unilaterally shows that shamanic states are induced and controlled voluntarily by the shaman, who ultimately maintains a healthy world view between a base line level of consciousness and an altered state of consciousness. He concludes that differences between schizophrenic and shamanic states such as 'volition', mean that the DSM-III cannot be used to define shamanism as the same state as schizophrenia. Robert Sapolsky has theorized that shamanism is practiced by schizotypal individuals rather than schizophrenics.\n\nThemes in social constructionism draw on various philosophies centred around the differences between objective reality or that which is known or absolute and subjective reality or that which is observed by the knower . In \"Schizophrenia: A scientific delusion\", Mary Boyle explores 'schizophrenia and its assumptions as truths or knowledges which are socially produced and managed'.\n\nMichael Walker examines the social construction of mental illness and its implications for the recovery model. He is critical of the user becoming defined by the definer, such as if you go for behavioural therapy you come out with a perspective of rewards and punishments etc.:\n\n\"Psychology, like psychiatry, has found ways of linguistically contorting, convoluting, and confusing lived experience with essential “truths” of its own. Bill O'Hanlon, a preeminent postmodern consultant and author, uses his holiday cookie making experience to\ncommunicate what happens in the therapy room (O'Hanlon and Wiener-Davis, 1989). A client's problem that s/he brings to therapy is like cookie dough. The experience of it is vague and malleable. Once the \"blob\" of cookie dough is forced through the cookie press (a tube, funnel, and mold pressed against a baking pan) it becomes a Christmas tree, star, or Santa Claus. Similarly, when a client exposes his or her problem to a therapist it gets \"molded\" or interpreted in the language of the therapist. So a client attending a psychodynamic therapy session would leave having unresolved childhood conflicts. The same client leaving a behaviorist's office would walk away with problem behavior shaped by reward and punishment. An interaction with a Jungian therapist would result in the need to deal with the various archetypes that apply to him or her. Talking with a diagnostically (and thereby pathologically) minded clinician will leave one with the idea that they “have” “bipolar disorder”, “depression”, “obsessive compulsive disorder”, a “mental illness” – along with all the stories that go with them (“chemical imbalances”, lifelong duration, the need to “comply” with a treatment regimen, etc.). Like cookies, continued exposure to the \"heat\" of the theoretical lens causes these interpretations to \"harden\" or \"reify\" (to make real).\" O'Hanlon concludes that if our languaging creates “the problem” then why not leverage the use of language and create a problem that is easiest to solve.\n\nHe is critical of a deficit based vocabulary:\n\n\"From the perspective of linguistics we see that the reified categories (e.g. mental illness, schizophrenia, bipolar disorder) are abstractions defined by clusters of what we call “symptoms.” Schizophrenia is defined as the presence of audio hallucinations (or other “thought disorders”) in the absence of a “mood disorder.” You can even throw in other correlates like “negative symptoms”, PET scans, response to medications, etc. The issue of the DSM's poor reliability and validity aside (Caplan, 1995; Sparks, Duncan, & Miller, 2005), the term “schizophrenia” is a word used to communicate the presence of these “symptoms.” The various human manifestations of thought, feeling, and behavior (aka “symptoms”) exist like the chair you are sitting on as you read this exists. But the next level of abstraction, the word “schizophrenia”, and the next, “mental illness”, only exist through consensus and only persist by convention. Even if the correlations of defining symptoms was perfect (which it is far from), in light of the linguistic paradigm we have to ask ourselves whether using a pathologizing, deficit-based vocabulary is useful in helping people improve the quality of their lives.\"\n\nPost Structuralist Jürgen Habermas examines questions of identity in the concept of societal integration and discusses how change occurs when there is a legitimation crisis. \nIt assists the understanding of the social construction of schizophrenia and other illness in also understanding forces that shape power imbalances in aetiologies. Phil Brown in \"Naming and Framing : The social construction of diagnosis and illness\" points out how professionals were very slow and unwilling to accept the diagnosis of 'Tardive dyskinesia', despite many research indicated warnings on it, as it was iatrogenic (caused by) prescription drugs that had been plaudited to be successful in treatment of the associated condition of psychoses. Market forces in pharmacology and/or cultural embarrassment can shape the rate at which society adapts to include new frameworks such as those demonstrated in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders.\nConrad writes on medicalization and social control. He looks at the process of science and medicalization . Science is heralded as the new religion in terms of ideological power and Conrad describes how medicalization can be used to police morals.\n\nIn \"The social construction of illness, key insights and policy implications\", Conrad and Barker trace the history of the construction of illness from symbolic interactionists and medical sociologists and examine how society reacts in situations to the distinctions such as the construction of gender from sex and the construction of illness from disease :\n\n\"Framing anger in women as evidence of the disease PMS, to be treated with antidepressants, trivializes the impact of gender inequality on women’s daily lives. And when difficulties in children’s attention and behavior get defined as attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), school policies increasingly encourage the use of medication and special accommodations for learning disabled students; yet these responses fail to address the social and nonmedical causes of children’s classroom inattention or agitation, such as increasing class size or the termination of physical education programs (Conrad 1975).\nIn each case, and many others, the process by which human problems become medicalized in the first place is largely ignored in creating policy toward these issues. A social constructionist approach provides a means of understanding how such problems come to be defined in medical terms and how this translates into public policy (see Gusfield 1981). As the above examples attest, medicalized constructions can also be strongly evaluative (i.e., they suggest how people ought to behave) and result in policies that authorize social control.\" \n\nThey conclude that in an information age . new social groupings emerging may challenge the social constructions of illness and force policy changes.\n\nFoucault examines power systems that incur on the operation of institutions and professionals:\n\n“The first task of the doctor is ... political: the struggle against disease must begin with a war against bad government.\" Man will be totally and definitively cured only if he is first liberated...” \n\nThe UK parliament in a key issues statement for 2015 references a 1957 statement by the royal commission but queries its impact some 60 years later:\n\n“Most people are coming to regard mental illness and disability in much the same way as physical illness and disability”\n\n\"Anti-stigma campaigns and the growing profile of mental health issues in recent years appear to have gone some way to changing views and dispelling misconceptions about mental illness. But with nine in ten people with mental health problems still experiencing stigma and discrimination, nearly sixty years after the Royal Commission’s optimistic assessment, there may still be some way to go in changing public attitudes\".\n\nCertain oppressions in the UK were removed by the Mental Health (Discrimination) Act 2013\n\nResearch directions here are on the importance of experiential narrative within psychiatric dialogue. Some research is critical of modern psychiatric adoption of an 'empiricist-behavioural approach' within the DSM. Nelson, Yung, Bechdolf and McGorry examine this in context of a phenomonological approach to the understanding of ultra high risk psychiatric disorders. They criticize psychiatric research that addresses subjectivity:\n\n\"When attempts have been made to address subjectivity, the psychiatric researcher is left without the requisite conceptual tools. Instead, this form of research has tended to live out Abraham Maslow’s statement ‘‘If the only tool you have is a hammer, you tend to treat everything as if it were a nail.’’ That is, the subjective has been approached in operational terms...\"\n'Mad Studies' is an emerging field of study wherein the user movement seeks to reclaim words such as mad and loony and redefine how psychiatry envisages the concept of madness, refuting where user experiences have been co-opted into psychiatric definitions . Mad Studies provides a construct whereby people with 'negative' mental health seek to be identified as part of the neuro-diversity of the human race. \n“We write at a time when activist concepts such as recovery, inclusion, access and hope have been co-opted, appropriated and politically neutralised by policy-makers, service-providers and government (Costa 2009; McWade 2014; Morgan 2013). User-led services and organisations continue to be most severely affected by spending cuts (Morris 2011), whilst anti-stigma campaigns endorsed by the Royal College of Psychiatrists continue to be pumped with millions of pounds to sell a sanitised version of ‘mental health’ to the masses (Armstrong 2014). Personalisation has been implemented through a free market ideology that has seen the dispossession and even some deaths of disabled people. It is ‘time to talk’, and not in the way the establishment wants us to, with individualised and neatly packaged tales of recovery. Instead, let us build upon the rich histories of activism and bring our shared experiences of oppression and marginalisation together” \n\nA simple way of looking at it is a slogan adopted by self-advocates 'nothing about us, without us', encouraging educators to co-teach with people who have lived experience of mental illness or distress.\nA key concept in this ontolology is the idea of san[e]ism – a sixth structural oppression to go alongside those associated with race, gender, disability, age and class. It is also defined as Mentalism (discrimination) :\n“From where we stand, san[e]ism is a devestating [sic?] form of oppression, often leading to negative stereotyping, discrimination, or arguments that Mad individuals are not fit for professional practice or, indeed, for life (Poole et al., 2012). According to Kalinowski and Risser (2005), sane[e]ism also allows for a binary that separates people into a power-up group and a power-down group. The power-up group is assumed to be normal, healthy and capable. The power-down group is assumed to be sick, disabled, unreliable, and, possibly violent. This factional splitting ensures a lower standard of service for the power-down group and allows the power-up group to judge, reframe and belittle the power-down group in pathological terms”.\n\n\"Alternative Perception\" is one of several names suggested by the schizophrenic user movement to replace the term schizophrenia which is on a spectrum of psychotic disorders and is considered to be outmoded by many consumers of services. Several academic authorities, notably Professor Marius Romme founder and principal theorist for the Hearing Voices Movement provide a rationale for the abandonment of this label. A symposium of some of the leading notions in this field from consumers of services and academics concluded:\n\nThe terms \"schizophrenia\" and \"autism\" originated from the works of Eugen Bleuler (1857–1939) as different aspects of the same diagnostic condition. Bleuler was a contemporary of Sigmund Freud and Carl Jung. Prior to Bleuler's interventions schizophrenia was referred to as dementia praecox (early insanity) and perceived as a single disorder. Schizophrenia is sometimes also referred to as hebephrenia, stemming in etymology from the Greek god Hebe who was associated with adolescence and as it was thought the onset of schizophrenia came at adolescence. It is generally acknowledged that schizophrenia can have early onset and late onset.\n\n\"He first advanced the term schizophrenia in 1908 in a paper based on a study of 647 Burghölzli patients. He then expanded on his paper of 1908 in Dementia Praecox oder Gruppe der Schizophrenie…Bleuler is credited with the introduction of two concepts fundamental to the analysis of schizophrenia: autism, denoting the loss of contact with reality, frequently through indulgence in bizarre fantasy; and ambivalence, denoting the coexistence of mutually exclusive contradictions within the psyche.\" \n\nSchizophrenia in America is a medical diagnostic category, which in the 1970s was primarily termed differentiated and undifferentiated schizophrenia; international leaders such as R.D. Laing in Europe offered professional expertise in serving this population group. In the context of community mental health services, the broad term mental health also referred to individuals who may have this diagnosis, which may or may not be considered to be valid or relevant. The word schizophrenia is often associated with a \"major mental breakdown\" in common parlance which may result in the need for psychotherapy, mental health counseling, person-centered therapy, or community support services.\n\nCharities that disagree with the notion of the schizophrenia label in the U.K. include Mind (charity) and Rethink. Mind state on their website \"Because of differences of opinion about schizophrenia, it's not easy to identify what might cause it.\" Mind have previously published an explanatory leaflet, prefaced by Michael Palin that gives a definition of schizophrenia as people 'who think outside the normal range of human experience'. The National Alliance on Mental Illness says:\n\n\"By changing the name, consumers with the symptoms of what actually may be a spectrum of disorders would have a more accurate and descriptive name attached to their diagnosis. Ideally, they would also experience less stigma, as they left behind a name with Greek origins that roughly translates to “shattered mind” and which is often used in popular culture to mean \"multiple personality disorder\" or \"split personality.\".\n\nWhilst the definitive cause(s) of schizophrenia remain unknown, research has indicated strong links between genetic make-up, social predisposing factors or stressors and environmental conditions in relation to the development and onset of schizophrenia and other conditions. International geneticists are working towards identifying a gene for Schizophrenia, combined efforts are at the SzGene database. In the course of this research geneticists have identified specific genes or copy number variants or alleles that may explain the comorbidity of various conditions.\n\nLinks between autism and schizophrenia have been studied. From clinical observation, both conditions cause a disruption in normative social functioning which may be mild or severe depending on the individual's position within the spectrum. Social cognition is under-developed in autism and highly developed in psychoses. Four genetic loci are diametrically opposed in terms of diagnoses of autism and schizophrenia, with corresponding deletions for one condition or duplications for the other. Researchers examining chromosome 16 (16p11.2) identified a heredity area on the short arm of human chromosome 16 (16p11.2) which contains microduplication and microdeletion of genome variation. Microduplication of hereditary factors in this heredity area increased the individual's risk of schizophrenia more than 8–14-fold and of autism over 20-fold. A corresponding microdeletion instead of microduplication in the area affected the risk of autism only, but not of schizophrenia. A recent study of \"de novo\" mutations, \"ie\" new mutations in people with both autism and schizophrenia spectrum conditions, concluded that schizophrenia and autism are due to \"errors\" during early organogenesis.\n\nThe National Institute of Mental Health reported on 8 December 2009 that in spring 2010, major databases on autism research would be joined up to facilitate further research.\n\nOther genetic analysis examines the role of alleles. One study ascribes links between schizophrenia and bipolar disorder by studying a total group of 6909 Europeans, both diagnosed and undiagnosed. Another study suggests that Genetic markers may be very dissimilar among different lineages of DNA in people of different cultures, making an international commonality in genetics as a precipitating factor in schizophrenia difficult to identify.>\n\nA study published in \"The Guardian\", reported on 9 December 2009, ascribes the onset of the condition to social factors. The authors of the study, which compared 500 patients with mental health problems with other ethnic groups and a control group of 350 people, claim there is an epidemic of schizophrenia amongst the Afro-Caribbean community . They refute the argument that racism may contribute to more diagnoses from psychiatrists of schizophrenia amongst members of the Afro Caribbean community and ascribe more value to deprivation and social isolation as triggering factors in those with a propensity towards schizotype personalities.\n\nVarious studies have indicated chemical precipitating factors in the development of autism or schizophrenia and also suggested that environmental factors such as toxins in the air may have precipitated a rise in the number of children born with autism. Ploeger discovered that pre-natal prescribed softenon in the 1960s and '70s led to an increase of children born with autism by 4% as opposed to a usual figure of 0.1%. Sodium valproate, a drug used as an anti-epileptic and as a mood stabilizer, increased the chance of children being born with autism sevenfold. The active component of cannabis (THC) is thought by some to increase the chances of onset of schizophrenia by 2.6 times in its skunk preparation. At this time there is no publicly available research on commonalities between these chemicals that may trigger the on/off switches in neuro-receptors linked to genes responsible for conditions on the autistic or schizophrenic spectrum.\n\nCritique in terms of current genetic research is that there are many candidates for copy number variants that may predispose a likelihood of developing schizophrenia but current research is flawed by both the sample sizes available for analysis by condition population and by an incomplete understanding of 'double whammies' where one allele affects another.\n\nLinks between autism and schizophrenia have been studied (as above). The implications are both conditions are part of the same spectrum. From clinical observation, both conditions cause a disruption in normative social functioning which may be mild or severe depending on the individual's position within the spectrum. Simon Fraser University researcher Crespi has examined how social cognition is under developed in autism and highly developed in Psychoses and outlines how the relationship between autism and schizophrenic spectrum is not one that has been explored in detail in the latter part of the 20th century. His research hypothesises that the genetic marker for both conditions may lie in the same location. His team have identified four loci that are diametrically opposed in terms of diagnoses of autism and schizophrenia with corresponding deletions for one condition or duplications for the other:\nProfessor Timothy Crow, from the University Department of Psychiatry at Oxford University, has long argued that schizophrenia as a condition came about as a result of natural selection. He has argued that schizophrenia is a by-product of the development of language, resulting from an evolutionary change approximately 150,000 years ago, that persisted due to sexual selection. However, conversely to study in polygenes or multiple allele combinations, he maintains that the answer lies in:\n\nA strand of research into schizophrenia is to investigate the links between viruses that attack the immune system such as herpes and the onset of schizophrenia. Researchers in this field are hopeful that this connection may provide a cure for schizophrenia within the next 20 years.\nMuller proposes that the vulnerability-stress model of analysis of schizophrenia should become the vulnerability-stress-inflammation model:\nResearch shows that viral infections of the immune system can dramatically increase the frequency of the onset of schizophrenia.\n\n“ a large scale Danish nationwide study on 39,076 persons with a diagnosis of schizophrenia spectrum disorders showed that the history of hospitalisation with infection increased the risk of schizophrenia by 60%” \n\nIn the Netherlands alternative proposals for the name \"schizophrenia\" include \"dysfunctional perception syndrome\" and Salience Syndrome :\n\n\"The concept of 'salience' has the potential to make the public recognize psychosis as relating to an aspect of human mentation and experience that is universal. It is proposed to introduce, analogous to the functional-descriptive term 'Metabolic syndrome', the diagnosis of 'Salience syndrome' to replace all current diagnostic categories of psychotic disorders. Within Salience syndrome, three subcategories may be identified, based on scientific evidence of relatively valid and specific contrasts, named Salience syndrome with affective expression, Salience syndrome with developmental expression and Salience syndrome not otherwise specified.\"\n\nFrom a social model of disability perspective, this interlinks:\n\nIn Japan \"In order to contribute to reduce the stigma related to schizophrenia and to improve clinical practice in the management of the disorder, the Japanese Society of Psychiatry and Neurology changed in 2002 the old term for the disorder, \"Seishin Bunretsu Byo\" (\"mind-split-disease\"), into the new term of \"Togo Shitcho Sho\" (\"integration disorder\")…Eighty-six percent of psychiatrists in the Miyagi prefecture found the new term more suitable to inform patients of the diagnosis as well as to explain the modern concept of the disorder.\" \nThe Japanese society of psychiatry and neurology report:\n\"This change is making psychoeducation much easier and is being useful to reduce misunderstandings about the illness and to decrease the stigma related to schizophrenia. The new term has been officially accepted by the Japanese medicine and media and is being adopted in the legislation in 2005.\"\n\nIn South Korea, schizophrenia has been renamed to 'Attunement Disorder'\n\n\"a new term, “Johyeonbyung (attunement disorder)”, was coined in South Korea. This term literally refers to tuning a string instrument, and metaphorically it describes schizophrenia as a disorder caused by mistuning of the brain's neural network.\" \n\n\n"}
{"id": "15906715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15906715", "title": "Software entropy", "text": "Software entropy\n\nA work on software engineering by Ivar Jacobson et al.\n\ndescribes software entropy as follows:\n\nAndrew Hunt and David Thomas use fixing broken windows as a metaphor for avoiding software entropy in software development.\n\nThe process of code refactoring can result in stepwise reductions in software entropy.\n\nSoftware entropy is increased with accumulation of technical debt .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "659757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=659757", "title": "Systems science", "text": "Systems science\n\nSystems science is an interdisciplinary field that studies the nature of systems—from simple to complex—in nature, society, cognition, engineering, technology and science itself. To systems scientists, the world can be understood as a system of systems. The field aims to develop interdisciplinary foundations that are applicable in a variety of areas, such as psychology, biology, medicine, communication, business management, engineering, and social sciences.\n\nSystems science covers formal sciences such as complex systems, cybernetics, dynamical systems theory, information theory, linguistics or systems theory. It has applications in the field of the natural and social sciences and engineering, such as control theory, operations research, social systems theory, systems biology, system dynamics, human factors, systems ecology, systems engineering and systems psychology. Themes commonly stressed in system science are (a) holistic view, (b) interaction between a system and its embedding environment, and (c) complex (often subtle) trajectories of dynamic behavior that sometimes are stable (and thus reinforcing), while at various 'boundary conditions' can become wildly unstable (and thus destructive). Concerns about Earth-scale biosphere/geosphere dynamics is an example of the nature of problems to which systems science seeks to contribute meaningful insights.\n\nSince the emergence of general systems research in the 1950s, systems thinking and systems science have developed into many theoretical frameworks.\n\n\nSystems sciences cover formal sciences like dynamical systems theory and applications in the natural and social sciences and engineering, such as social systems theory and system dynamics.\n\nGeneral systems scientists can be divided into different generations. The founders of the systems movement like Ludwig von Bertalanffy, Kenneth Boulding, Ralph Gerard, James Grier Miller, George J. Klir, and Anatol Rapoport were all born between 1900 and 1920. They all came from different natural and social science disciplines and joined forces in the 1950s to establish the general systems theory paradigm. Along with the organization of their efforts a first generation of systems scientists rose.\n\nAmong them were other scientists like Ackoff, Ashby, Margaret Mead and Churchman, who popularized the systems concept in the 1950s and 1960s. These scientists inspired and educated a second generation with more notable scientists like Ervin Laszlo (1932) and Fritjof Capra (1939), who wrote about systems theory in the 1970s and 1980s. Others got acquainted and started studying these works in the 1980s and started writing about it since the 1990s. Debora Hammond can be seen as a typical representative of these third generation of general systems scientists.\n\nThe International Society for the Systems Sciences (ISSS) is an organisation for interdisciplinary collaboration and synthesis of systems sciences. The ISSS is unique among systems-oriented institutions in terms of the breadth of its scope, bringing together scholars and practitioners from academic, business, government, and non-profit organizations. Based on fifty years of tremendous interdisciplinary research from the scientific study of complex systems to interactive approaches in management and community development. This society was initially conceived in 1954 at the Stanford Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences by Ludwig von Bertalanffy, Kenneth Boulding, Ralph Gerard, and Anatol Rapoport.\n\nIn the field of systems science the International Federation for Systems Research (IFSR) is an international federation for global and local societies in the field of systems science. This federation is a non-profit, scientific and educational agency founded in 1981, and constituted of some thirty member organizations from various countries. The overall purpose of this Federation is to advance cybernetic and systems research and systems applications and to serve the international systems community.\n\nThe best known research institute in the field is the Santa Fe Institute (SFI) located in Santa Fe, New Mexico, United States, dedicated to the study of complex systems. This institute was founded in 1984 by George Cowan, David Pines, Stirling Colgate, Murray Gell-Mann, Nick Metropolis, Herb Anderson, Peter A. Carruthers, and Richard Slansky. All but Pines and Gell-Mann were scientists with Los Alamos National Laboratory. SFI's original mission was to disseminate the notion of a separate interdisciplinary research area, complexity theory referred to at SFI as complexity science. Recently, IIT Jodhpur in Rajasthan, India started inculcating system science and engineering to its students through Bachelors, Masters and Doctorate programs. This makes it the first institution to offer system science education to students in India.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "546439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=546439", "title": "Thetan", "text": "Thetan\n\nIn Scientology, the concept of the thetan () is similar to the concept of self, or the spirit or soul as found in several other belief systems. The term is derived from the Greek letter Θ, theta, which in Scientology beliefs represents \"the source of life, or life itself.\" In Scientology it is believed that it is the thetan, not the central nervous system, which commands the body through communication points.\n\nThetans have been described in the Church of Scientology in a number of ways.\n\nAccording to the Church of Scientology, the concept for the thetan was first discovered in the early 1950s by L. Ron Hubbard, drawing on reports by Dianetics practitioners of past-life experiences. Although the term is comparable to a soul, a thetan can be connected to multiple people over time. An important goal in Scientology is to become one with the thetan as an Operating Thetan.\n\nThe term and concept were defined by Scientology founder L. Ron Hubbard, who adopted the Greek letter theta (Θ) to represent \"the source of life and life itself\". Hubbard first introduced his ideas of \"theta-beings\" in a lecture series of March 1952. He attributed the coining of the word to his wife Mary Sue. As an essential point of Scientology doctrine, a person's identity and self-awareness come entirely from a \"thetan\". It is redundant to refer to \"a person's thetan,\" because the person does not exist independently.\n\nHubbard once defined a thetan as: \"... having no mass, no wave-length, no energy, no measurable qualities and no time or location in space except by consideration or postulate. The spirit is not a thing. It is the creator of things.\" In a lecture series later published as a book (\"The Phoenix Lectures\"), he jokingly pointed to a study that implied that a \"thetan\" manifests a small but measurable amount of mass:\n\nAlthough Hubbard did not name the doctor concerned, there was indeed such an attempt, by Duncan MacDougall, to measure the weight of dying patients to determine the weight of the soul, although MacDougall's experiments took place about fifty years before Hubbard's lectures, not fifteen or twenty, and are generally not regarded as having any scientific validity.\n\nAccording to Hubbard's son Ronald DeWolf (born L. Ron Hubbard Jr.), his father stated that thetans are immortal and perpetual, having willed themselves into existence at some point several trillion years ago. After they originated, thetans generated \"points to view\" or \"dimension points\", causing space to come into existence. They agreed that other thetans' dimension points existed, thus bringing into existence the entire universe. All matter, energy, space, and time exists solely because thetans \"agree\" that it exists.\n\nIn the primordial past, according to Scientologist teachings, thetans brought the material universe into being largely for their own pleasure..\" The universe is thought to have no independent reality, but to derive its apparent reality from the fact that most thetans agree it exists. Scientologists believe that thetans fell from grace when they began to identify with their creation, rather than their original state of spiritual purity. Eventually, they lost their memory of their true nature, along with the associated spiritual and creative powers. As a result, thetans came to think of themselves as nothing but embodied beings.\n\nThetans are believed to be reborn time and time again in new bodies through a process called \"assumption\" which is analogous to reincarnation. Dell deChant and Danny Jorgensen liken Scientology to Hinduism, in that both ascribe a causal relationship between the experiences of earlier incarnations and one's present life. With each rebirth, the effects of the \"MEST\" universe (MEST here stands for matter, energy, space, and time) on the thetan are believed to become stronger. Scientologists believe that the thetan has been “embodied on many occasions,” but they generally avoid the term “reincarnation.” They also reject the idea of transmigration, “i.e. the belief that the thetan would incarnate into any animal less than human.” Scientology’s first phase has to do with removing “encumbrances acquired in this life and in past existences,” J. Gordon Melton writes. These encumbrances are called “engrams,” “described as aberrations attached to the self that produce dysfunctional behavior patterns,” according to Melton.\n\nJon Atack, whose book \"A Piece of Blue Sky\" details how he reached Operating Thetan level V before leaving Scientology, describes Hubbard's doctrines about thetans: \"Thetans are all-knowing beings, and became bored because there were no surprises. Hubbard asserted that the single most important desire in all beings is to have a 'game'. To have a 'game' it was necessary to 'not know' certain things, so certain perceptions were negated ('not-is-ed').\" Since thetans knew everything, this required them to abandon or suppress perceptions and knowledge. Over time, the loss of perception accumulated and certain thetans began to cause harm to others. MEST (physical) beings also sought to \"trap\" thetans in order to control them. Thetans came to learn contrition, punishing themselves for their own \"harmful\" acts.\n\nAccording to Hubbard, an essential part of the thetans' game was the \"conquest\" of matter, energy, space, and time by the life force, theta. This has produced multiple universes which have ended and begun in succession, each new one being more solid and entrapping than the last. The thetans have by now become so enmeshed in the physical universe that many have identified themselves totally with it, forgetting their quadrillions of years of existence and their original godly powers.\n\nAccording to Scientology, thetan powers are said to remain potent and restorable. One of the Church of Scientology's stated goals is \"the rehabilitation of the human spirit\", by which it means the restoration of the thetan's original abilities. Hubbard claims that thetans are able to change reality through \"postulates\"—decisions made by the individual about the nature of the reality around them. Some thetans are said to have (mis)used this ability to \"implant\" others with hypnotic suggestions, forcing other thetans to \"cluster\" around bodies (hence body thetans). This sort of directed control is referred to as \"other-determinism\". Scientology seeks to undo it and return the thetan to \"self-determinism\", where he can control himself and his environment. The eventual goal is to achieve \"pan-determinism\", where he acts for the good of all.\n\nThe Scientological notion of the thetan differs from other religions, such as Judaism and Christianity, in three significant ways. While other belief systems “fuse the concept of the body and soul”, the thetan is “separate and independent.” Also unlike the Judeo-Christian tradition, Scientologists believe that the thetan has “lived through many, perhaps thousands of lifetimes.” Third, different from the Christian notion of original sin, Scientology believes that the thetan is basically good, but “has lost touch with its true nature.”\n\nReligious scholar Richard Holloway writes that thetans were not created, but they created themselves, adopting and creating the human body as a vehicle or existence.\n\nNon-Scientologists Joel Sappell and Robert Welkos described in a 1990 article in the \"LA Times\" how Scientologists believe that when a person dies—or, in Scientology terms, when a thetan abandons its physical body—they go to a \"landing station\" on the planet Venus, where the thetan is re-implanted and told lies about its past life and its next life. The Venusians take the thetan, \"capsule\" it, and send it back to Earth to be thrown into the ocean off the coast of California. They quote Hubbard as saying, \"If you can get out of that, and through that, and wander around through the cities and find some girl who looks like she is going to get married or have a baby or something like that, you're all set. And if you can find the maternity ward to a hospital or something, you're OK. And you just eventually just pick up a baby.\"\n\nWhile Hubbard’s discovery of the thetan led to the development of an elaborate cosmology, the doctrinal structure he created is based on the following propositions: “Man is an immortal spiritual being. His experience extends well beyond a single lifetime. His capabilities are unlimited, even if not presently realized.”\n\nAccording to Scientology doctrine, a thetan exists whether operating a human body or not. Scientology advertises itself as being able to \"rehabilitate\" the thetan of a practitioner to a state where the individual can operate with or without a \"flesh body\". The term \"operating thetan\" would then apply as it does when an individual is operating a body. The Operating Thetan (OT) levels are the upper level courses in Scientology.\n\nThe Church defines \"Operating Thetan\" as \"knowing and willing cause over life, thought, and matter, energy, space and time (MEST).\"\n\nThe Church of Scientology states as a point of doctrine that an individual exists with or without a body.\n\nEven beyond the Operating Thetan levels comes the \"Cleared Theta Clear\", a godlike state which Hubbard describes this way:\n\"A thetan who is completely rehabilitated and can do everything a thetan should do, such as move MEST and control others from a distance, or create his own universe; a person who is able to create his own universe or, living in the MEST universe is able to create illusions perceivable by others at will, to handle MEST universe objects without mechanical means and to have and feel no need of bodies or even the MEST universe to keep himself and his friends interested in existence\".\n\nA body thetan is a disincarnate thetan who is \"stuck\" in, on or near a human body, and all human bodies are said to be infested by these disembodied thetans, or clusters of them. This information is not revealed until a Scientologist reaches Section III of the Operating Thetan levels (commonly referred to as \"OT III\"). Body thetans were said by Hubbard to be a result of a prehistoric \"Incident\" involving Xenu.\n\n"}
{"id": "1834493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1834493", "title": "Tickle torture", "text": "Tickle torture\n\nTickle torture is the use of tickling to abuse, dominate, harass, humiliate, or interrogate an individual. While laughter is popularly thought of as a pleasure response, in tickle torture, the one being tickled may laugh despite whether or not they find the experience pleasant. In a tickling situation, laughter can indicate a panic reflex rather than a pleasure response. Tickle torture may be a consensual activity or one that is forced, depending on the circumstances. In a consensual form, tickle torture may be part of a mutually fulfilling, physically-intimate act between partners. However, forced tickle torture can cause real physical and mental distress in a victim, which is why it has been used as an interrogation method or to simply show dominance over another person.\n\n\"Chinese tickle torture\" is an ancient form of torture practiced by the Chinese, in particular the courts of the Han Dynasty. Chinese tickle torture was a punishment for nobility since it left no marks and a victim could recover relatively easily and quickly.\n\nAnother example of tickle torture was used in ancient Rome, where a person’s feet were dipped in a salt solution, and a goat was brought in to lick the solution off. This type of tickle torture would only start as tickling, eventually becoming extremely painful.\n\nJosef Kohout, a man persecuted in the Flossenbürg concentration camp during World War II, witnessed Nazi prison guards perform tickle torture on a fellow inmate, followed by various other tortures which resulted in his death. This incident is described in Heinz Heger's book \"The Men With The Pink Triangle\": \"The first game that the SS sergeant and his men played was to tickle their victim with goose feathers, on the soles of his feet, between his legs, in the armpits, and on other parts of his naked body. At first the prisoner forced himself to keep silent, while his eyes twitched in fear and torment from one SS man to the other. Then he could not restrain himself and finally he broke out in a high-pitched laughter that very soon turned into a cry of pain.\"\n\nAn article in the \"British Medical Journal\" about European tortures describes a method of tickle torture in which a goat was compelled to lick the victim's feet because they had been dipped in salt water. Once the goat had licked the salt off, the victim's feet would be dipped in the salt water again and the process would repeat itself. In ancient Japan, those in positions of authority could administer punishments to those convicted of crimes that were beyond the criminal code. This was called shikei, which translates as ‘private punishment.’ One such torture was kusuguri-zeme: \"merciless tickling.\"\n\nIn his book \"Sibling Abuse\", Vernon Wiehe published his research findings regarding 150 adults who were abused by their siblings during childhood. Several reported tickling as a type of physical abuse they experienced, and based on these reports it was revealed that abusive tickling is capable of provoking extreme physiological reactions in the victim, such as vomiting, incontinence (losing control of bladder), and losing consciousness due to inability to breathe.\n\nThere are a small number of documented instances of tickle torture in the \"New York Times\". They happened in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries, and in these instances restrained victims were tickled upon the bare soles of their feet, apparently against their will and for the pleasure of their tormentors.\n\nThere is currently no evidence that tickle torture was ever widespread or was practiced by governments. The very small amount of related documentation discovered thus far originates from England and the United States.\n\nA 1903 article described an immobilized suicidal patient at the Hudson River State Hospital who was tied to a bed for his own safety. While he lay helpless, the patient's toes were tickled by one of the hospital attendants, Frank A. Sanders. \"Sanders is said to have confessed that while intoxicated he amused himself by tickling the feet and ribs of Hayes and pulling his nose.\" Sanders also gave his restrained victim a black eye. Another hospital employee came upon Sanders while he was entertaining himself at his patient's expense, and the criminal was brought before a grand jury.\n\nAn 1887 article entitled \"England in Old Times\" states \"Gone, too, are the parish stocks, in which offenders against public morality formerly sat imprisoned, with their legs held fast beneath a heavy wooden yoke, while sundry small but fiendish boys improved the occasion by deliberately pulling off their shoes and tickling the soles of their defenseless feet.\"\n\nIn 1872, the beating of a man's bare feet was described in an article entitled \"Terrible Punishments: The Russian Knout and Turkish Bastinado: How the Punishments are Inflicted\". The author, while explaining the intense pain caused by whipping, writes \"I have heard men cry out in agony...but I never heard such heart-rending sounds as those from the poor bastinadoed wretch before me. Such is the bastinado. And of the intensiveness of the agony which its infliction produces, one has only to think of the congeries or plexus of delicate nerves which have their terminus in the feet. Even tickling the soles of the feet has often produced death; what then must be the excruciating pain when cruel violence is done to those most sensitive members?\"\n\nThe term \"tickle torture\" can apply to many different situations that do not include the aforementioned acts of either sexual gratification or malicious torture.\n\n\"Tickle torture\" can be an extended act of tickling where the recipient of the tickling would view it as a long time or tickling of an intense nature. This can be due to the length of time they are tickled, the intensity of the tickling or the areas that are being tickled. This can simply be a 30-second tickle applied to the victim's bare feet, which can seem like a much longer time if the victim's feet are very ticklish. While the palm of the hand is far more sensitive to touch, other commonly ticklish areas include the armpits, sides of the torso, neck, knee, midriff, thighs, navel, and the ribs. Many people consider the soles of their feet the most ticklish, due to the many nerve endings located there: this explains why tickling one's feet against their will is the most common example of \"tickle torture\".\n\n\"Tickle torture\" may also have other uses, including the act of tickling a person as a practical joke, or even an interrogation method. This may not be extreme tickling, but could include prolonged tickling upon a sensitive area until the victim has released the required information. In the former case, it could be used as a way of \"pranking\" a person, as the act of being tickled can produce many sounds and sensations that could be viewed as being embarrassing to the victim. In this way, the tickling can continue to the point where a certain reaction is revealed.\n\nThis method of \"pranking\" could also incorporate the use of physical restraint or restraint using materials. This would be done to leave a desired area of the body bare and vulnerable to the tickling, in a way that the victim would not be able to remove this area from the tickling, and would have to simply endure. This can also be seen as \"punishment\" or \"payback\" as the tickler could be using the tickling as retribution from a previous tickling experience or \"prank\".\n\nIn sexual fetishism, tickle torture is an activity between consenting partners. A torture session usually begins with one partner allowing the other to tie them up in a position that exposes bare parts of the body, particularly those that are sensitive to tickling. Though many parts of the human body are deemed ticklish, tickle torture is commonly associated with the tickling of the bare feet or armpits.\n\nThe bondage methods of the tickling usually follows the same basic methods. The object of the bondage is to render the victim unable to remove themselves from the tickling, as well as rendering the ticklish areas of the victim vulnerable. The victim is usually bound in a sitting or lying position rather than a standing one as to expose the soles of the feet which are often among the areas upon which tickling is inflicted. The restraint of the arms above the head leaves the upper body and underarms susceptible to the tickling. This enables the torturer to use whatever they want, e.g. fingers, tongue, beard, feathers, brush, pine cones, salt sticks, electric toothbrush or a vacuum cleaner.\n\nIn VeggieTales's \"Esther... The Girl Who Became Queen\", King Xerxes disposes of criminals by banishing them to the Island of Perpetual Tickling, to which Death, wielding a scythe-sized feather, escorts them. Thus, tickle torture serves here as a family-friendly depiction of capital punishment.\n\nThe TV series \"Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles\" had a recurring character named Don Turtelli whose main form of torture was to take a feather to the soles of the feet of his captives.\n\nTickle torture has become the subject of many fetish/sexual publications. These fictional writings can portray a fantasy of a desirable character, often a celebrity, being restrained and interrogated. These stories are not always sexual, although they are mostly the object of sexual fantasies and dreams. Because of the fantasy element of the plot, the characters are often magical or the circumstances are completely imaginative.\n\nIn one of the light novels of the \"Naruto Secret Chronicle\" series, the shinobi Sai uses tickle torture on an ANBU member he was interrogating, as the man had been taught to withstand traditional torture. The action succeeded in them finding the location of their comrade, Sakura Haruno.\n\n"}
{"id": "56150142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56150142", "title": "Vietnamese crocodile lizard", "text": "Vietnamese crocodile lizard\n\nThe Vietnamese crocodile lizard (\"Shinisaurus crocodilurus vietnamensis\") is a subspecies of the Chinese crocodile lizard. This subspecies is a semiaquatic lizard from Greater Mekong Subregion in northern Vietnam.\n"}
{"id": "177668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=177668", "title": "Voronoi diagram", "text": "Voronoi diagram\n\nIn mathematics, a Voronoi diagram is a partitioning of a plane into regions based on distance to points in a specific subset of the plane. That set of points (called seeds, sites, or generators) is specified beforehand, and for each seed there is a corresponding region consisting of all points closer to that seed than to any other. These regions are called Voronoi cells. The Voronoi diagram of a set of points is dual to its Delaunay triangulation.\n\nIt is named after Georgy Voronoi, and is also called a Voronoi tessellation, a Voronoi decomposition, a Voronoi partition, or a Dirichlet tessellation (after Peter Gustav Lejeune Dirichlet). Voronoi diagrams have practical and theoretical applications in a large number of fields, mainly in science and technology, but also in visual art.\nThey are also known as Thiessen polygons.\n\nIn the simplest case, shown in the first picture, we are given a finite set of points {\"p\", …, \"p\"} in the Euclidean plane. In this case each site \"p\" is simply a point, and its corresponding Voronoi cell \"R\" consists of every point in the Euclidean plane whose distance to \"p\" is less than or equal to its distance to any other \"p\". Each such cell is obtained from the intersection of half-spaces, and hence it is a convex polygon. The line segments of the Voronoi diagram are all the points in the plane that are equidistant to the two nearest sites. The Voronoi vertices (nodes) are the points equidistant to three (or more) sites.\n\nLet formula_1 be a metric space with distance function formula_2. Let formula_3 be a set of indices and let formula_4 be a tuple (ordered collection) of nonempty subsets (the sites) in the space formula_5. The Voronoi cell, or Voronoi region, formula_6, associated with the site formula_7 is the set of all points in formula_5 whose distance to formula_7 is not greater than their distance to the other sites formula_10, where formula_11 is any index different from formula_12. In other words, if formula_13 denotes the distance between the point formula_14 and the subset formula_15, then\n\nThe Voronoi diagram is simply the tuple of cells formula_17. In principle, some of the sites can intersect and even coincide (an application is described below for sites representing shops), but usually they are assumed to be disjoint. In addition, infinitely many sites are allowed in the definition (this setting has applications in geometry of numbers and crystallography), but again, in many cases only finitely many sites are considered.\n\nIn the particular case where the space is a finite-dimensional Euclidean space, each site is a point, there are finitely many points and all of them are different, then the Voronoi cells are convex polytopes and they can be represented in a combinatorial way using their vertices, sides, 2-dimensional faces, etc. Sometimes the induced combinatorial structure is referred to as the Voronoi diagram. However, in general the Voronoi cells may not be convex or even connected.\n\nIn the usual Euclidean space, we can rewrite the formal definition in usual terms. Each Voronoi polygon formula_6 is associated with a generator point formula_7.\nLet formula_5 be the set of all points in the Euclidean space. Let formula_21 be a point that generates its Voronoi region formula_22, formula_23 that generates formula_24, and formula_25 that generates formula_26, and so on. Then, as expressed by Tran \"et al\" \"all locations in the Voronoi polygon are closer to the generator point of that polygon than any other generator point in the Voronoi diagram in Euclidean plane\".\n\nAs a simple illustration, consider a group of shops in a city. Suppose we want to estimate the number of customers of a given shop. With all else being equal (price, products, quality of service, etc.), it is reasonable to assume that customers choose their preferred shop simply by distance considerations: they will go to the shop located nearest to them. In this case the Voronoi cell formula_6 of a given shop formula_7 can be used for giving a rough estimate on the number of potential customers going to this shop (which is modeled by a point in our city).\n\nFor most cities, the distance between points can be measured using the familiar\nEuclidean distance: formula_29 or the Manhattan distance:formula_30. The corresponding Voronoi diagrams look different for different distance metrics.\n\n\nInformal use of Voronoi diagrams can be traced back to Descartes in 1644. Peter Gustav Lejeune Dirichlet used 2-dimensional and 3-dimensional Voronoi diagrams in his study of quadratic forms in 1850.\nBritish physician John Snow used a Voronoi diagram in 1854 to illustrate how the majority of people who died in the Broad Street cholera outbreak lived closer to the infected Broad Street pump than to any other water pump.\n\nVoronoi diagrams are named after Russian mathematician Georgy Fedosievych Voronoy who defined and studied the general \"n\"-dimensional case in 1908. Voronoi diagrams that are used in geophysics and meteorology to analyse spatially distributed data (such as rainfall measurements) are called Thiessen polygons after American meteorologist Alfred H. Thiessen. In condensed matter physics, such tessellations are also known as Wigner–Seitz unit cells. Voronoi tessellations of the reciprocal lattice of momenta are called Brillouin zones. For general lattices in Lie groups, the cells are simply called fundamental domains. In the case of general metric spaces, the cells are often called metric fundamental polygons.\nOther equivalent names for this concept (or particular important cases of it): Voronoi polyhedra, Voronoi polygons, domain(s) of influence, Voronoi decomposition, Voronoi tessellation(s), Dirichlet tessellation(s).\n\nVoronoi tessellations of regular lattices of points in two or three dimensions give rise to many familiar tessellations.\n\nFor the set of points (\"x\", \"y\") with \"x\" in a discrete set \"X\" and \"y\" in a discrete set \"Y\", we get rectangular tiles with the points not necessarily at their centers.\n\nAlthough a normal Voronoi cell is defined as the set of points closest to a single point in \"S\", an \"n\"th-order Voronoi cell is defined as the set of points having a particular set of \"n\" points in \"S\" as its \"n\" nearest neighbors. Higher-order Voronoi diagrams also subdivide space.\n\nHigher-order Voronoi diagrams can be generated recursively. To generate the \"n\"-order Voronoi diagram from set \"S\", start with the (\"n\" − 1)-order diagram and replace each cell generated by \"X\" = {\"x\", \"x\", ..., \"x\"} with a Voronoi diagram generated on the set \"S\" − \"X\".\n\nFor a set of \"n\" points the (\"n\" − 1)-order Voronoi diagram is called a farthest-point Voronoi diagram.\n\nFor a given set of points \"S\" = {\"p\", \"p\", ..., \"p\"} the farthest-point Voronoi diagram divides the plane into cells in which the same point of \"P\" is the farthest point. A point of \"P\" has a cell in the farthest-point Voronoi diagram if and only if it is a vertex of the convex hull of \"P\". Let \"H\" = {\"h\", \"h\", ..., \"h\"} be the convex hull of \"P\"; then the farthest-point Voronoi diagram is a subdivision of the plane into \"k\" cells, one for each point in \"H\", with the property that a point \"q\" lies in the cell corresponding to a site \"h\" if and only if d(\"q\", \"h\") > d(\"q\", \"p\") for each \"p\" ∈ \"S\" with \"h\" ≠ \"p\", where d(\"p\", \"q\") is the Euclidean distance between two points \"p\" and \"q\".\n\nThe boundaries of the cells in the farthest-point Voronoi diagram have the structure of a topological tree, with infinite rays as its leaves. Every finite tree is isomorphic to the tree formed in this way from a farthest-point Voronoi diagram.\n\nAs implied by the definition, Voronoi cells can be defined for metrics other than Euclidean, such as the Mahalanobis distance or Manhattan distance. However, in these cases the boundaries of the Voronoi cells may be more complicated than in the Euclidean case, since the equidistant locus for two points may fail to be subspace of codimension 1, even in the 2-dimensional case.\nA weighted Voronoi diagram is the one in which the function of a pair of points to define a Voronoi cell is a distance function modified by multiplicative or additive weights assigned to generator points. In contrast to the case of Voronoi cells defined using a distance which is a metric, in this case some of the Voronoi cells may be empty. A power diagram is a type of Voronoi diagram defined from a set of circles using the power distance; it can also be thought of as a weighted Voronoi diagram in which a weight defined from the radius of each circle is added to the squared distance from the circle's center.\n\nThe Voronoi diagram of \"n\" points in \"d\"-dimensional space requires formula_31 storage space. Therefore, Voronoi diagrams are often not feasible for \"d\" > 2. An alternative is to use approximate Voronoi diagrams, where the Voronoi cells have a fuzzy boundary, which can be approximated.\n\nVoronoi diagrams are also related to other geometric structures such as the medial axis (which has found applications in image segmentation, optical character recognition, and other computational applications), straight skeleton, and zone diagrams. Besides points, such diagrams use lines and polygons as seeds. By augmenting the diagram with line segments that connect to nearest points on the seeds, a planar subdivision of the environment is obtained. This structure can be used as a navigation mesh for path-finding through large spaces. The navigation mesh has been generalized to support 3D multi-layered environments, such as an airport or a multi-storey building.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nDirect algorithms:\n\nStarting with a Delaunay triangulation (obtain the dual):\n\n\n\n\n"}
