{"id": "7396563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7396563", "title": "Bragdon v. Abbott", "text": "Bragdon v. Abbott\n\nBragdon v. Abbott, 524 U.S. 624 (1998), was a case in which the Supreme Court of the United States held that reproduction does qualify as a major life activity according to the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA).\n\nSidney Abbott, after disclosing on a form that she was 'asymptomatic' HIV positive, was refused service from her dentist, Randon Bragdon, to fill a cavity. Bragdon submitted that he would agree to fill the cavity if he could perform the work in a hospital setting, but that Abbott would have to pay for the expense of being admitted and using the facility. Abbott sued Bragdon on grounds of discrimination, citing the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990. The case was appealed through the court system and eventually was agreed to be heard by the Supreme Court. Abbott’s case was based on the argument that she was a victim of discrimination based on the ADA. Abbott argued that HIV created a “substantial limitation” to life activities, specifically, reproductive ability. Bragdon, the defendant, retorted that HIV posed a “direct threat” to his health and safety, but that he was willing to work on Abbott should he be able to take “extra precautions” in a hospital setting. Federal trial courts, as well as appellate courts ruled in favor of Abbott.\n\nThe major issues that were heard and decided upon by the Supreme Court included: whether HIV is a disability and reproduction a major life activity under the ADA. Accordingly, can a physician refuse or alter care of a patient with HIV without violating portions of the ADA?\n\nThe United States Supreme Court ruled that reproduction does qualify as a major life activity under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), and that even asymptomatic HIV would qualify Abbott to claim protection under the act. The Court held that the ADA does not force care-givers to treat those who pose a direct threat and that health care professionals may not be granted deference to their views when serving as a defendant in cases of alleged discrimination. The holding does not effect a blanket protection under the ADA to all persons with HIV.\n\nThe Court utilized the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, which aimed to eliminate discrimination towards people with disabilities in the workplace, public areas and by government entities. That includes discrimination towards people with actual disabilities and persons who are regarded or treated as if they have a disability. Specific to the case, the ADA stipulates that those with disabilities cannot be discriminated against medical treatment. In order to receive protection from the ADA, Abbott was required to show that she had an impairment, and that it substantially limited a major life activity, on which the Court sided with her claim.\n\n"}
{"id": "13458760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13458760", "title": "Brunner syndrome", "text": "Brunner syndrome\n\nBrunner syndrome is a rare genetic disorder associated with a mutation in the MAOA gene. It is characterized by lower than average IQ (typically about 85), problematic impulsive behavior (such as arson, hypersexuality and violence), sleep disorders and mood swings. It was identified in fourteen males from one family in 1993. It has since been discovered in two additional families.\n\nBrunner syndrome is caused by a monoamine oxidase A (MAOA) deficiency, which leads to an excess of monoamines in the brain, such as serotonin, dopamine, and norepinephrine (noradrenaline). In both mice and humans, a mutation was located on the eighth exon of the MAO-A gene, which created a dysfunctional MAO-A gene. The regular function of MAO-A, breaking down monoamines, is disrupted, and monoamines build up within the brain. Mice that lacked a functional MAO-A gene displayed higher levels of aggression, in comparison to mice with a functional MAO-A gene.\n\nProgesterone & Rauwolfia Serpentina (containing Reserpine) are a possible treatment as they both increase MAO-A activity.\n\nBrunner Syndrome was described in 1993 by H.G. Brunner and his colleagues upon the discovery of a particular genetic defect in male members of a large Dutch family. Brunner found that all of the male family members with this defect reacted aggressively when angry, fearful, or frustrated. The defect discovered was later found to be a mutation in the gene that codes for monoamine oxidase A (MAOA gene). Brunner said that an \"MAO-A deficiency is associated with a recognizable behavioural phenotype that included disturbed regulation of impulsive aggression\".\n\nA letter published by Hebebrand and Klug (1995) criticized Brunner's findings for not using strict DSM criteria.\n\nBrunner's findings have been used to argue that genetics, rather than decision-making processes, can cause criminal activity. Evidence supporting the genetic defense stems from both Brunner's findings and a series of studies on mice. To prove the correlation between MAO-A deficiency and aggression in courts, it is often contended that individuals cannot be held accountable for their genes, and as a result, should not be held responsible for their dispositions and resulting actions.\n"}
{"id": "9001459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9001459", "title": "CBM (charity)", "text": "CBM (charity)\n\nCBM (formerly Christian Blind Mission) is an international Christian development organization, committed to improving the quality of life of people with disabilities in the poorest communities of the world. It is considered one of the world's oldest and largest organizations working in this field. CBM was founded in 1908 by the German pastor Ernst Jakob Christoffel, who built homes for blind children, orphans, physically disabled, and deaf persons in Turkey and Iran. Initially CBM's efforts were focused on preventing and curing blindness but now cover other causes of disability.\n\nCBM targets the people affected by disability by supporting local partner organizations to run programs in the fields of healthcare, rehabilitation (community-based rehabilitation – CBR), education and livelihood opportunities. In 2017 the international mental health charity BasicNeeds merged into the Christian disability charity.\n\nCBM also advocates for disability inclusion following UN guidelines in international policy-making bodies, and campaigns and raises funds through its member associations. CBM has an emergency response team to respond to conflicts and natural disasters.\n\nCBM reached more than 38.9 million people in 2015. It supports more than 650 partner-projects in 63 countries and works with various partner organizations, including disabled people's organizations, mission agencies, local churches, self-help groups and relief agencies. It has (as of 2017) 11 member associations in Europe, North America and Oceania, comprising Germany, Switzerland, Italy, Australia, New Zealand, the United Kingdom, Ireland, Kenya, South Africa, the United States and Canada. They have had support of the Canadian government. They have been given a four-out-of-four star rating by Charity Navigator.\n\nIn 2017 CBM was the joint winner (along with Sightsavers) of the 2017 António Champalimaud Vision Award (the world's largest scientific prize in the field of vision) recognizing its work in supporting blindness prevention, alleviation and rehabilitation programs in developing countries.\n"}
{"id": "17951791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17951791", "title": "Caribbean Regional Maritime Agreement", "text": "Caribbean Regional Maritime Agreement\n\nThe Agreement Concerning Co-operation in Suppressing Illicit Maritime and Air Trafficking in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances in the Caribbean Area, known in short form as the Caribbean Regional Maritime Agreement or Caribbean Regional Agreement (CRA), is a 2003 agreement regarding the suppression of the illegal drug trade in the Caribbean.\n\nThe CRA agreement has not been ratified by the required minimum five states (2007) although most Caribbean states have accepted the agreement in principle.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54184567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54184567", "title": "Cetadiol", "text": "Cetadiol\n\nCetadiol, also known as androst-5-ene-3β,16α-diol, is a drug described as a \"steroid tranquilizer\" which was briefly investigated as a treatment for alcoholism in the 1950s. It is an androstane steroid and analogue of 5-androstenediol (androst-5-ene-3β,17β-diol) and 16α-hydroxy-DHEA (androst-5-ene-3β,16α-diol-17-one), but showed no androgenic or myotrophic activity in animal bioassays. The drug was reported in 1956 and studied until 1958.\n\n"}
{"id": "53557244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53557244", "title": "Collective cell migration", "text": "Collective cell migration\n\nCollective cell migration describes the movements of group of cells and the emergence of collective behavior from cell-environment interactions and cell-cell communication. Collective cell migration is an essential process in the lives of multicellular organisms, e.g. embryonic development, wound healing and cancer spreading (metastasis). Cells can migrate as a cohesive group (e.g. epithelial cells) or have transient cell-cell adhesion sites (e.g. mesenchymal cells). They can also migrate in different modes like sheets, strands, tubes, and clusters. While single-cell migration has been extensively studied, collective cell migration is a relatively new field with applications in preventing birth defects or dysfunction of embryos. It may improve cancer treatment by enabling doctors to prevent tumors from spreading and forming new tumors.\n\nThe environment of the migrating cell can affect its speed, persistence and direction of migration by stimulating it. The extracellular matrix (ECM) provides not only the structural and biochemical support, but also plays a major role in regulating cell behavior. Different ECM proteins (such as collagen, elastin, fibronectin, laminin, and others) allow cells to adhere and migrate, while forming focal adhesions in the front and disassembling them in the back. Using these adhesion sites, cells also sense the mechanical properties of the ECM. Cells can be guided by a gradient of those proteins (haptotaxis) or a gradient of soluble substrates in the liquid phase surrounding the cell (chemotaxis). Cells sense the substrate through their receptors and migrate toward the concentration (or the opposite direction). Another form of stimulation can be rigidity gradients of the ECM (durotaxis).\n\nCollective cell migration is enhanced by geometrical confinement of an extracellular matrix molecule (e.g. the proteoglycan versican in neural crest cells), that acts as a barrier, to promote the emergence of organized migration in separated streams. Confinement is also observed in vivo, where the optimal width is a function of the number of migrating cells in different streams of different species.\n\nMigrating isolated cell responds to cues in its environment and changes its behavior accordingly. As cell-cell communication does not play a major role in this case, similar trajectories are observed in different isolated cells. However, when the cell migrates as part of the collective, it not only responds to its environment but also interacts with other cells through soluble substrates and physical contact. These cell-cell communication mechanisms are the main reasons for the difference between efficient migration of the collective and random walk movements of the isolated cell. Cell-cell communication mechanisms are widely studied experimentally (in vivo and in vitro), and computationally (in silico).\n\nCo-attraction between collectively migrating cells is the process by which cells of the same type secrete chemo-attractant (e.g. C3a in neural crest cells), that stimulates other cells in the group that have the receptors to that chemo-attractant. Cells sense the secreted substrate and respond to the stimulation by moving towards each other's and maintain high cell density.\n\nContact inhibition of locomotion (CIL) is a process in which the cell changes its direction of movement after colliding into another cell. Those cells could be of the same cell type or different types. The contacts (cell-junctions) are created by transmembrane glycoproteins named cadherins (E-cadherin, N-cadherin or cadherin 11) and other proteins. After cell-cell contact, the protrusions of cells in the contact direction are inhibited. In the CIL process, cells migrate away from each other by repolarizing in the new direction, so that new protrusions are formed in the front while contractions pull the back from contact.\n\n\nCollective cell migration is studied over many model species.\n\nBorder cells in flies (\"Drosophila melanogaster\"): the border cells migrate during the differentiation of egg cells to be ready for fertilization.\n\nThe lateral line in zebrafish: collective cell migration from head to tails is essential to the development of the sensory system of the fish. The sensors of the lateral line measure the flow over the body-surface of the fish.\n\nWound healing: collective cell migration is an essential part in this healing process, wound area is closed by the migrating cells. Wound healing is commonly studied in vitro using cell lines such as Madin-Darby Canine Kidney cells.\n\nNeural crest cells in mice, Leghorn chicks, amphibians (\"Xenopus laevis\"), and fish (zebrafish): collective migration of neural crest cells occurs during embryo development of vertebrates. They migrate long distances from the head (neural tube) to give rise to different tissues.\n\nSpreading of cancer (metastasis): common complication of cancer involve formation of new tumors (secondary tumors), as a result of migration of cancer cells from the primary tumor. Similar to collective cell migration in development and wound healing, cancer cells also undergo epithelial to mesenchymal transition (EMT), that reduces cell-cell adhesions and allows cancer spreading.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2913317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2913317", "title": "Community-acquired pneumonia", "text": "Community-acquired pneumonia\n\nCommunity-acquired pneumonia (CAP) refers to pneumonia (any of several lung diseases) contracted by a person with little contact with the healthcare system. The chief difference between hospital-acquired pneumonia (HAP) and CAP is that patients with HAP live in long-term care facilities or have recently visited a hospital. CAP is common, affecting people of all ages, and its symptoms occur as a result of oxygen-absorbing areas of the lung (alveoli) filling with fluid. This inhibits lung function, causing dyspnea, fever, chest pains and cough.\n\nCAP, the most common type of pneumonia, is a leading cause of illness and death worldwide. Its causes include bacteria, viruses, fungi and parasites. CAP is diagnosed by assessing symptoms, making a physical examination and on x-ray. Other tests, such as sputum examination, supplement chest x-rays. Patients with CAP sometimes require hospitalization, and it is treated primarily with antibiotics, antipyretics and cough medicine. Some forms of CAP can be prevented by vaccination and by abstaining from tobacco products.\n\n\n\n\n\nOver 100 microorganisms can cause CAP, with most cases caused by \"Streptococcus pneumoniae\". Certain groups of people are more susceptible to CAP-causing pathogens; for example, infants, adults with chronic conditions (such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease), senior citizens, alcoholics and others with compromised immune systems are more likely to develop CAP from \"Haemophilus influenzae\" or \"Pneumocystis jirovecii\". A definitive cause is identified in only half the cases.\n\nInfants can acquire lung infections before birth by breathing infected amniotic fluid or through a blood-borne infection which crossed the placenta. Infants can also inhale contaminated fluid from the vagina at birth. The most prevalent pathogen causing CAP in newborns is \"Streptococcus agalactiae\", also known as group-B streptococcus (GBS). GBS causes more than half of CAP in the first week after birth. Other bacterial causes of neonatal CAP include \"Listeria monocytogenes\" and a variety of mycobacteria. CAP-causing viruses may also be transferred from mother to child; herpes simplex virus (the most common) is life-threatening, and adenoviridae, mumps and enterovirus can also cause pneumonia. Another cause of CAP in this group is \"Chlamydia trachomatis\", acquired at birth but not causing pneumonia until two to four weeks later; it usually presents with no fever and a characteristic, staccato cough.\n\nCAP in older infants reflects increased exposure to microorganisms, with common bacterial causes including \"Streptococcus pneumoniae\", \"Escherichia coli\", \"Klebsiella pneumoniae\", \"Moraxella catarrhalis\" and \"Staphylococcus aureus\". Maternally-derived syphilis is also a cause of CAP in this age group. Viruses include human respiratory syncytial virus (RSV), human metapneumovirus, adenovirus, human parainfluenza viruses, influenza and rhinovirus, and RSV is a common source of illness and hospitalization in infants. CAP caused by fungi or parasites is not usually seen in otherwise-healthy infants.\n\nAlthough children older than one month tend to be at risk for the same microorganisms as adults, children under five are much less likely to have pneumonia caused by \"Mycoplasma pneumoniae\", \"Chlamydophila pneumoniae\" or \"Legionella pneumophila\". In contrast, older children and teenagers are more likely to acquire \"Mycoplasma pneumoniae\" and \"Chlamydophila pneumoniae\" than adults.\n\nA full spectrum of microorganisms is responsible for CAP in adults, and patients with certain risk factors are more susceptible to infections of certain groups of microorganisms. Identifying people at risk for infection by these organisms aids in appropriate treatment.\nMany less-common organisms can cause CAP in adults, and are identified from specific risk factors or treatment failure for common causes.\n\nSome patients have an underlying problem which increases their risk of infection. Some risk factors are:\n\nCAP's symptoms are the result of lung infection by microorganisms and the immune system's response to the infection. Mechanisms of infection are different for viruses and other microorganisms.\n\nViruses cause as much as 20 percent of CAP cases. The most common viruses are influenza, parainfluenza, human respiratory syncytial virus, human metapneumovirus and adenovirus. Less-common viruses which may cause serious illness include chickenpox, SARS, avian flu and hantavirus.\n\nTypically, a virus enters the lungs through the inhalation of water droplets and invades the cells lining the airways and the alveoli. This leads to cell death; the cells are killed by the virus or they self-destruct. Further lung damage occurs when the immune system responds to the infection. White blood cells, particularly lymphocytes, activate chemicals known as cytokines which cause fluid to leak into the alveoli. The combination of cell destruction and fluid-filled alveoli interrupts the transportation of oxygen into the bloodstream. In addition to their effects on the lungs, many viruses affect other organs. Viral infections weaken the immune system, making the body more susceptible to bacterial infection (including bacterial pneumonia).\n\nAlthough most cases of bacterial pneumonia are caused by \"Streptococcus pneumoniae\", infections by atypical bacteria such as \"Mycoplasma pneumoniae,\" \"Chlamydophila pneumoniae, and\" \"Legionella pneumophila\" can also cause CAP. Enteric gram-negative bacteria, such as \"Escherichia coli\" and \"Klebsiella pneumoniae\", are a group of bacteria that typically live in the large intestine; contamination of food and water by these bacteria can result in outbreaks of pneumonia. \"Pseudomonas aeruginosa\", an uncommon cause of CAP, is a difficult bacteria to treat.\n\nBacteria and fungi typically enter the lungs through the inhalation of water droplets, although they can reach the lung through the bloodstream if an infection is present and often live in the respiratory tract. In the alveoli, bacteria and fungi travel into the spaces between cells and adjacent alveoli through connecting pores. The immune system responds by releasing neutrophil granulocytes, white blood cells responsible for attacking microorganisms, into the lungs. The neutrophils engulf and kill the microorganisms, releasing cytokines which activate the entire immune system. This response causes fever, chills and fatigue, common symptoms of CAP. The neutrophils, bacteria and fluids leaked from surrounding blood vessels fill the alveoli, impairing oxygen transport. Bacteria may travel from the lung to the bloodstream, causing septic shock (very low blood pressure which damages the brain, kidney, and heart).\n\nA variety of parasites can affect the lungs, generally entering the body through the skin or by being swallowed. They then travel to the lungs through the blood, where the combination of cell destruction and immune response disrupts oxygen transport.\n\nPatients with symptoms of CAP require evaluation. Diagnosis of pneumonia is made clinically, rather than on the basis of a particular test. Evaluation begins with a physical examination by a health provider, which may reveal fever, an increased respiratory rate (tachypnea), low blood pressure (hypotension), a fast heart rate (tachycardia) and changes in the amount of oxygen in the blood. Palpating the chest as it expands and tapping the chest wall (percussion) to identify dull, non-resonant areas can identify stiffness and fluid, signs of CAP. Listening to the lungs with a stethoscope (auscultation) can also reveal signs associated with CAP. A lack of normal breath sounds or the presence of crackles can indicate fluid consolidation. Increased vibration of the chest when speaking, known as tactile fremitus, and increased volume of whispered speech during auscultation can also indicate fluid.\n\nWhen signs of pneumonia are discovered during evaluation, chest X-rays, are performed to support a diagnosis of CAP, and examination of the blood and sputum for infectious microorganisms and blood tests may be used to support a diagnosis of CAP. Diagnostic tools depend on the severity of illness, local practices and concern about complications of the infection. All patients with CAP should have their blood oxygen monitored with pulse oximetry. In some cases, arterial blood gas analysis may be required to determine the amount of oxygen in the blood. A complete blood count (CBC) may reveal extra white blood cells, indicating infection.\n\nChest X-rays and X-ray computed tomography (CT) can reveal areas of opacity (seen as white), indicating consolidation. CAP does not always appear on x-rays, because the disease is in its initial stages or involves a part of the lung an x-ray does not see well. In some cases, chest CT can reveal pneumonia not seen on x-rays. However, congestive heart failure or other types of lung damage can mimic CAP on x-rays.\n\nSeveral tests can identify the cause of CAP. Blood cultures can isolate bacteria or fungi in the bloodstream. Sputum Gram staining and culture can also reveal the causative microorganism. In severe cases, bronchoscopy can collect fluid for culture. Special tests can be performed if an uncommon microorganism is suspected, such as urinalysis for Legionella antigen in Legionnaires' disease.\n\nCAP is treated with an antibiotic that kills the offending microorganism and by managing complications. If the causative microorganism is unidentified (often the case), the laboratory identifies the most-effective antibiotic; this may take several days.\n\nHealth professionals consider a person's risk factors for various organisms when choosing an initial antibiotic. Additional consideration is given to the treatment setting; most patients are cured by oral medication, while others must be hospitalized for intravenous therapy or intensive care.\n\nTherapy for older children and adults generally includes treatment for atypical bacteria: typically a macrolide antibiotic (such as azithromycin or clarithromycin) or a quinolone, such as levofloxacin. Doxycycline is the antibiotic of choice in the UK for atypical bacteria, due to increased clostridium difficile colitis in hospital patients linked to the increased use of clarithromycin.\n\nMost newborn infants with CAP are hospitalized, receiving IV ampicillin and gentamicin for at least ten days to treat the common causative agents \"streptococcus agalactiae\", \"listeria monocytogenes\" and \"escherichia coli\". To treat the herpes simplex virus, IV acyclovir is administered for 21 days.\n\nTreatment of CAP in children depends on the child's age and the severity of illness. Children under five are not usually treated for atypical bacteria. If hospitalization is not required, a seven-day course of amoxicillin is often prescribed, with co-trimaxazole an alternative when there is allergy to penicillins. Further studies are needed to confirm the efficacy of newer antibiotics. With the increase in drug-resistant Streptococcus pneumoniae, antibiotics such as cefpodoxime may become more popular. Hospitalized children receive intravenous ampicillin, ceftriaxone or cefotaxime, and a recent study found that a three-day course of antibiotics seems sufficient for most mild-to-moderate CAP in children.\n\nIn 2001 the American Thoracic Society, drawing on the work of the British and Canadian Thoracic Societies, established guidelines for the management of adult CAP dividing patients into four categories based on common organisms:\n\nFor mild-to-moderate CAP, shorter courses of antibiotics (3–7 days) seem to be sufficient.\n\nSome patients with CAP will be at increased risk of death despite antimicrobial treatment. A key reason for this is the host's exaggerated inflammatory response. On one hand it is required to control the infection but on the other, it leads to bystander tissue damage. As a consequence of this recent research focuses on immunomodulatory therapy that can modulate the immune response to reduce injury to the lung and other affected organs such as the heart. Although the evidence for these agents has not resulted in their routine use, there potential benefits are highly promising.\n\nSome CAP patients require intensive care, with clinical prediction rules such as the pneumonia severity index and CURB-65 guiding the decision to hospitalize. Factors increasing the need for hospitalization include:\n\nLaboratory results indicating hospitalization include:\n\nX-ray findings indicating hospitalization include:\n\nThe CAP outpatient mortality rate is less than one percent, with fever typically responding to the first two days of therapy and other symptoms in the first week. However, X-rays may remain abnormal for at least a month. Hospitalized patients have an average mortality rate of 12 percent, with the rate rising to 40 percent for patients with bloodstream infections or requiring intensive care. Factors increasing mortality are identical to those indicating hospitalization.\n\nUnresponsive CAP may be due to a complication, a previously-unknown health problem, inappropriate antibiotics for the causative organism, a previously-unsuspected microorganism (such as tuberculosis) or a condition mimicking CAP (such as granuloma with polyangiitis). Additional tests include X-ray computed tomography, bronchoscopy or lung biopsy.\n\nMajor complications of CAP include:\n\nCAP is common worldwide, and a major cause of death in all age groups. In children, most deaths (over two million a year) occur in newborn period. According to a World Health Organization estimate, one in three newborn deaths are from pneumonia. Mortality decreases with age until late adulthood, with the elderly at risk for CAP and its associated mortality.\n\nMore CAP cases occur during the winter than at other times of the year. CAP is more common in males than females, and more common in black people than Caucasians. Patients with underlying illnesses (such as Alzheimer's disease, cystic fibrosis, COPD, tobacco smoking, alcoholism or immune-system problems) have an increased risk of developing pneumonia.\n\nCAP may be prevented by treating underlying illnesses increasing its risk, by smoking cessation and vaccination of children and adults. Vaccination against \"haemophilus influenzae\" and \"streptococcus pneumoniae\" in the first year of life has reduced their role in childhood CAP. A vaccine against \"streptococcus pneumoniae\", available for adults, is recommended for healthy individuals over 65 and all adults with COPD, heart failure, diabetes mellitus, cirrhosis, alcoholism, cerebrospinal fluid leaks or who have had a splenectomy. Re-vaccination may be required after five or ten years.\n\nPatients who are vaccinated against \"streptococcus pneumoniae\", health professionals, nursing-home residents and pregnant women should be vaccinated annually against influenza. During an outbreak, drugs such as amantadine, rimantadine, zanamivir and oseltamivir have been demonstrated to prevent influenza.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8840098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8840098", "title": "Disability insurance", "text": "Disability insurance\n\nDisability Insurance, often called DI or disability income insurance, or income protection, is a form of insurance that insures the beneficiary's earned income against the risk that a disability creates a barrier for a worker to complete the core functions of their work. For example, the worker may suffer from an inability to maintain composure in the case of psychological disorders or an injury, illness or condition that causes physical impairment or incapacity to work. It encompasses paid sick leave, short-term disability benefits (STD), and long-term disability benefits (LTD). Statistics show that in the US a disabling accident occurs, on average, once every second. In fact, nearly 18.5% of Americans are currently living with a disability, and 1 out of every 4 persons in the US workforce will suffer a disabling injury before retirement.\n\nIn the late 19th century, modern disability insurance began to become available. It was originally known as \"accident insurance\". The first company to offer accident insurance was the Railway Passengers Assurance Company, formed in 1848 in England to insure against the rising number of fatalities on the nascent railway system. It was registered as the Universal Casualty Compensation Company to:\n\nThe company was able to reach an agreement with the railway companies, whereby basic accident insurance would be sold as a package deal along with travel tickets to customers. The company charged higher premiums for second and third class travel due to the higher risk of injury in the roofless carriages.\n\nThose whose employers do not provide benefits, and self-employed individuals who desire disability coverage, may purchase policies. Premiums and available benefits for individual coverage vary considerably between companies, occupations, states and countries. In general, premiums are higher for policies that provide more monthly benefits, offer benefits for longer periods of time, and start payments of benefits more quickly following a disability claim. Premiums also tend to be higher for policies that define disability in broader terms, meaning the policy would pay benefits in a wider variety of circumstances thus covering more insurances that the individual was going to purchase. Web-based disability insurance calculators assist in determining the disability insurance needed.\n\nHigh-limit disability insurance is designed to keep individual disability benefits at 65% of income regardless of income level. Coverage is typically issued supplemental to standard coverage. With high-limit disability insurance, benefits can be anywhere from an additional $2,000 to $100,000 per month. Single policy issue and participation (individual or group long-term disability) coverage has gone up to $30,000 with some hospitals. \n\nBusiness Overhead Expense (BOE) coverage reimburses a business for overhead expenses should the owner experience a disability. Eligible benefits include: rent or mortgage payments, utilities, leasing costs, laundry/maintenance, accounting/billing and collection service fees, business insurance premiums, employee salaries, employee benefits, property tax, and other regular monthly expenses.\n\nIn most developed countries, the single most important form of disability insurance is that provided by the national government for all citizens. For example, the UK's version is part of National Insurance; the U.S.'s version is Social Security (SS)—specifically, several parts of SS including Social Security Disability Insurance (SSDI) and Supplemental Security Income (SSI). These programs provide a floor beneath all other disability insurance. In other words, they are the safety net that catches everyone who was otherwise (a) uninsured or (b) underinsured. As such, they are large programs with many beneficiaries. The general theory of the benefit formula is that the benefit is enough to prevent abject poverty.\n\nIn addition to federally funded programs, there are five states which currently offer state funded Disability Insurance programs. These programs are designed for short term disabilities only. The coverage amount is determined by the applicant's level of income over the previous 12 months. The states which currently fund disability insurance programs are California, New York, New Jersey, Rhode Island, and Hawaii.\n\nOne of the most common reasons for disability is on-the-job injury, which explains why the second largest form of disability insurance is that provided by employers to cover their employees. There are several subtypes that may or may not be separate parts of the benefits package: workers' compensation and more general disability insurance policies.\n\nWorkers' compensation (also known by variations of that name, e.g., workman's comp, workmen's comp, worker's comp, compo) offers payments to employees who are (usually temporarily, rarely permanently) unable to work because of a job-related injury. However, workers' compensation is in fact more than just income insurance, because it compensates for economic loss (past and future), reimbursement or payment of medical and life expenses (functioning in this case as a form of health insurance), and benefits payable to the dependents of workers killed during employment (offering a form of life insurance). Workers compensation provides no coverage to those not working. Statistics have shown that the majority of disabilities occur while the injured person is not working and therefore is not covered by workers' compensation.\n\n\"Newsweek\" magazine's cover story for March 5, 2007 discussed the problems that American veterans of Afghanistan and Iraq wars have faced in receiving VA benefits. The article describes one veteran who waited 17 months to start receiving payments. Another article, in \"The New York Times\", points out that besides long waits, there is also variation based on the veteran's state of residence and whether he/she is a veteran of the Army, National Guard, or Reserves. The \"Newsweek\" article says that it can be difficult for a veteran to get his or her claim approved; \"Newsweek\" described the benefits thus:\n\nThe 2007 figures cited above correspond in 2012 to $2,673 a month (more with children) and, for the 50% rating, $797 a month for a single veteran.\n\nAccording to a sidebar in the same Newsweek article, the Americans injured in these wars, for all the obstacles to proper care, will probably receive much better compensation and health care than equally injured Afghan or Iraqi soldiers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56809815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56809815", "title": "Disease X", "text": "Disease X\n\nDisease X is the code name for an unknown pathogen which may cause disease and potentially an epidemic in future. It was added to the list of Blueprint priority diseases as a \"known unknown\" by the World Health Organization (WHO) in 2018. The purpose of this addition is to acknowledge the fact that a new epidemic might be caused by an unknown pathogen and to seek R&D preparedness.\n"}
{"id": "17059724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17059724", "title": "Ellen S. Berscheid", "text": "Ellen S. Berscheid\n\nEllen S. Berscheid (born 1936) is an American social psychologist. She is Regents Professor at University of Minnesota, where she received her PhD in 1965. Berscheid specializes in the research of interpersonal relationships. More specifically, her current research looks at external factors (environment) of a relationship and how they influence internal aspects (satisfaction) of that relationship.\n\nBerscheid started her collegiate career as an Education major at Beloit College in Wisconsin, before transferring to University of Minnesota. There she was given a research assistant grant by her professor, Paul Secord. This kind of grant being given to an undergraduate was rare, especially for a student not majoring in psychology. Berscheid picked up psychology as her second major and graduated with honors. After graduation Berscheid applied for and received PHS Predoctoral Research Fellowship, at the University of Minnesota to work with Harold Kelley. However, Berscheid dealing with her new marriage and a death in her family decided to decline the offer and became a research administrator for Pillsbury.\n\nBerscheid thrived at Pillsbury and received a promotion the following year, something unprecedented for a woman in this field. However, Berscheid felt that she had outgrown her position at Pillsbury and left to pursue painting. During this time, Berscheid did apply for a research assistantship at the University of Minnesota, under Elliot Aronson. During her interview Aronson and Berscheid clashed ideas on many different issues. Berscheid believed that she would never hear from Aronson after her interview. A few weeks later, she received a letter from him offering her the research assistantship. She obtained her Ph.D. while working under the direction of Elliot Aronson.\n\nSince she did not receive a job in the psychology department, Berscheid took a job teaching Research Methods in the Business department where she met Elaine (Walster) Hatfield. Hatfield convinced Berscheid to join her in researching equity and attraction. Two women conducting psychological research was rare and might have been stopped if too many people took notice, therefore Hatfield and Berscheid conducted their research quietly through a federal grant.\n\nA few years later, Hatfield left the Business department for a job in the psychology department and Berscheid took over Hatfield’s job as Student Activities Bureau. Berscheid was expecting to be pushed into early retirement when she was offered a professorship in the psychology department, which was an all-male faculty, at the time. Berscheid has made many contributions in the field of relationship research and social psychology as a whole.\n\nIn 1983 Berscheid introduced the Emotion-in-Relationships Model (ERM), a theory designed to predict individual's experiences towards emotions.\n\nBerscheid is the recipient of Donald T. Campbell Award for Distinguished Research in Social Psychology from the Society for Personality and Social Psychology, and the Distinguished Scientist Award from the Society of Experimental Social Psychology. She was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1998.\n\nIn 1974, Berscheid was the center of a controversy regarding federal funding of research. Senator William Proxmire of Wisconsin used her as an example when he awarded the National Science Foundation his first Golden Fleece award, which was presented monthly between 1975 and 1988, in order to focus media attention on projects Proximire viewed as self-serving and wasteful of taxpayer dollar. Berscheid had been granted $84,000 by the foundation to research why people fall in love. The scandal \"called into question use of public funds in scientific research.\" \n\n"}
{"id": "4222711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4222711", "title": "Ernest W. Retzlaff", "text": "Ernest W. Retzlaff\n\nErnest Walter Retzlaff, Ph.D. (February 19, 1918 – 1989) was an American neurophysiologist and histologist who helped develop a form of manipulative healing therapy called Craniosacral therapy with Dr. John Upledger at Michigan State University in the 1970s.\n\nIn 1987, he published \"The Cranium and Its Sutures: Anatomy, Physiology, Clinical Applications and Annotated Bibliography of Research in the Cranial Field\" (Springer-Verlag) with his colleague Fredric L. Mitchell, Jr.\n\nRetzlaff was born to German immigrant parents in Helena, Montana, on Feb. 19, 1918.\n"}
{"id": "49072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49072", "title": "Francis Galton", "text": "Francis Galton\n\nSir Francis Galton, FRS (; 16 February 1822 – 17 January 1911) was an English Victorian era statistician, progressive, polymath, sociologist, psychologist, anthropologist, eugenicist, tropical explorer, geographer, inventor, meteorologist, proto-geneticist, and psychometrician. He was knighted in 1909.\n\nGalton produced over 340 papers and books. He also created the statistical concept of correlation and widely promoted regression toward the mean. He was the first to apply statistical methods to the study of human differences and inheritance of intelligence, and introduced the use of questionnaires and surveys for collecting data on human communities, which he needed for genealogical and biographical works and for his anthropometric studies.\n\nHe was a pioneer in eugenics, coining the term itself and the phrase \"nature versus nurture\". His book \"Hereditary Genius\" (1869) was the first social scientific attempt to study genius and greatness.\n\nAs an investigator of the human mind, he founded psychometrics (the science of measuring mental faculties) and differential psychology and the lexical hypothesis of personality. He devised a method for classifying fingerprints that proved useful in forensic science. He also conducted research on the power of prayer, concluding it had none by its null effects on the longevity of those prayed for. His quest for the scientific principles of diverse phenomena extended even to the optimal method for making tea.\n\nAs the initiator of scientific meteorology, he devised the first weather map, proposed a theory of anticyclones, and was the first to establish a complete record of short-term climatic phenomena on a European scale. He also invented the Galton Whistle for testing differential hearing ability. He was Charles Darwin's half-cousin.\n\nGalton was born at \"The Larches\", a large house in the Sparkbrook area of Birmingham, England, built on the site of \"Fair Hill\", the former home of Joseph Priestley, which the botanist William Withering had renamed. He was Charles Darwin's half-cousin, sharing the common grandparent Erasmus Darwin. His father was Samuel Tertius Galton, son of Samuel \"John\" Galton. The Galtons were Quaker gun-manufacturers and bankers, while the Darwins were involved in medicine and science.\n\nHe was cousin of Douglas Strutt Galton and half-cousin of Charles Darwin. Both families had Fellows of the Royal Society and members who loved to invent in their spare time. Both Erasmus Darwin and Samuel Galton were founding members of the Lunar Society of Birmingham, which included Boulton, Watt, Wedgwood, Priestley, Edgeworth. Both families were known for their literary talent. Erasmus Darwin composed lengthy technical treatises in verse. Galton's aunt Mary Anne Galton wrote on aesthetics and religion, and her autobiography detailed the environment of her childhood populated by Lunar Society members.\n\nGalton was a child prodigy – he was reading by the age of two; at age five he knew some Greek, Latin and long division, and by the age of six he had moved on to adult books, including Shakespeare for pleasure, and poetry, which he quoted at length. Later in life, Galton proposed a connection between genius and insanity based on his own experience:Men who leave their mark on the world are very often those who, being gifted and full of nervous power, are at the same time haunted and driven by a dominant idea, and are therefore within a measurable distance of insanityGalton attended King Edward's School, Birmingham, but chafed at the narrow classical curriculum and left at 16. His parents pressed him to enter the medical profession, and he studied for two years at Birmingham General Hospital and King's College London Medical School. He followed this up with mathematical studies at Trinity College, University of Cambridge, from 1840 to early 1844.\n\nAccording to the records of the United Grand Lodge of England, it was in February 1844 that Galton became a freemason at the \"Scientific\" lodge, held at the Red Lion Inn in Cambridge, progressing through the three masonic degrees: Apprentice, 5 February 1844; Fellow Craft, 11 March 1844; Master Mason, 13 May 1844. A note in the record states: \"Francis Galton Trinity College student, gained his certificate 13 March 1845\". One of Galton's masonic certificates from \"Scientific\" lodge can be found among his papers at University College, London.\n\nA nervous breakdown prevented Galton's intent to try for honours. He elected instead to take a \"poll\" (pass) B.A. degree, like his half-cousin Charles Darwin. (Following the Cambridge custom, he was awarded an M.A. without further study, in 1847.) He briefly resumed his medical studies but the death of his father in 1844 left him emotionally destitute, though financially independent, and he terminated his medical studies entirely, turning to foreign travel, sport and technical invention.\n\nIn his early years Galton was an enthusiastic traveller, and made a notable solo trip through Eastern Europe to Constantinople, before going up to Cambridge. In 1845 and 1846, he went to Egypt and travelled down the Nile to Khartoum in the Sudan, and from there to Beirut, Damascus and down the Jordan.\n\nIn 1850 he joined the Royal Geographical Society, and over the next two years mounted a long and difficult expedition into then little-known South West Africa (now Namibia). He wrote a book on his experience, \"Narrative of an Explorer in Tropical South Africa\". He was awarded the Royal Geographical Society's Founder's Gold Medal in 1853 and the Silver Medal of the French Geographical Society for his pioneering cartographic survey of the region. This established his reputation as a geographer and explorer. He proceeded to write the best-selling \"The Art of Travel\", a handbook of practical advice for the Victorian on the move, which went through many editions and is still in print.\n\nIn January 1853, Galton met Louisa Jane Butler (1822–1897) at his neighbour's home and they were married on 1 August 1853. The union of 43 years proved childless.\nGalton was a polymath who made important contributions in many fields of science, including meteorology (the anti-cyclone and the first popular weather maps), statistics (regression and correlation), psychology (synaesthesia), biology (the nature and mechanism of heredity), and criminology (fingerprints). Much of this was influenced by his penchant for counting or measuring. Galton prepared the first weather map published in The Times (1 April 1875, showing the weather from the previous day, 31 March), now a standard feature in newspapers worldwide.\n\nHe became very active in the British Association for the Advancement of Science, presenting many papers on a wide variety of topics at its meetings from 1858 to 1899. He was the general secretary from 1863 to 1867, president of the Geographical section in 1867 and 1872, and president of the Anthropological Section in 1877 and 1885. He was active on the council of the Royal Geographical Society for over forty years, in various committees of the Royal Society, and on the Meteorological Council.\n\nJames McKeen Cattell, a student of Wilhelm Wundt who had been reading Galton's articles, decided he wanted to study under him. He eventually built a professional relationship with Galton, measuring subjects and working together on research.\n\nIn 1888, Galton established a lab in the science galleries of the South Kensington Museum. In Galton's lab, participants could be measured to gain knowledge of their strengths and weaknesses. Galton also used these data for his own research. He would typically charge people a small fee for his services.\n\nIn 1873, Galton wrote a controversial letter to the Times titled 'Africa for the Chinese', where he argued that the Chinese, as a race capable of high civilisation and only temporarily stunted by the recent failures of Chinese dynasties, should be encouraged to immigrate to Africa and displace the supposedly inferior aboriginal blacks.\n\nThe publication by his cousin Charles Darwin of \"The Origin of Species\" in 1859 was an event that changed Galton's life . He came to be gripped by the work, especially the first chapter on \"Variation under Domestication\", concerning animal breeding.\n\nGalton devoted much of the rest of his life to exploring variation in human populations and its implications, at which Darwin had only hinted. In doing so, he established a research program which embraced multiple aspects of human variation, from mental characteristics to height; from facial images to fingerprint patterns. This required inventing novel measures of traits, devising large-scale collection of data using those measures, and in the end, the discovery of new statistical techniques for describing and understanding the data.\n\nGalton was interested at first in the question of whether human ability was hereditary, and proposed to count the number of the relatives of various degrees of eminent men. If the qualities were hereditary, he reasoned, there should be more eminent men among the relatives than among the general population. To test this, he invented the methods of historiometry. Galton obtained extensive data from a broad range of biographical sources which he tabulated and compared in various ways. This pioneering work was described in detail in his book \"Hereditary Genius\" in 1869. Here he showed, among other things, that the numbers of eminent relatives dropped off when going from the first degree to the second degree relatives, and from the second degree to the third. He took this as evidence of the inheritance of abilities.\n\nGalton recognised the limitations of his methods in these two works, and believed the question could be better studied by comparisons of twins. His method envisaged testing to see if twins who were similar at birth diverged in dissimilar environments, and whether twins dissimilar at birth converged when reared in similar environments. He again used the method of questionnaires to gather various sorts of data, which were tabulated and described in a paper \"The history of twins\" in 1875. In so doing he anticipated the modern field of behaviour genetics, which relies heavily on twin studies. He concluded that the evidence favoured nature rather than nurture. He also proposed adoption studies, including trans-racial adoption studies, to separate the effects of heredity and environment.\n\nGalton recognised that cultural circumstances influenced the capability of a civilisation's citizens, and their reproductive success. In \"Hereditary Genius\", he envisaged a situation conducive to resilient and enduring civilisation as follows:\nThe best form of civilization in respect to the improvement of the race, would be one in which society was not costly; where incomes were chiefly derived from professional sources, and not much through inheritance; where every lad had a chance of showing his abilities, and, if highly gifted, was enabled to achieve a first-class education and entrance into professional life, by the liberal help of the exhibitions and scholarships which he had gained in his early youth; where marriage was held in as high honour as in ancient Jewish times; where the pride of race was encouraged (of course I do not refer to the nonsensical sentiment of the present day, that goes under that name); where the weak could find a welcome and a refuge in celibate monasteries or sisterhoods, and lastly, where the better sort of emigrants and refugees from other lands were invited and welcomed, and their descendants naturalised. (p. 362)\nGalton invented the term \"eugenics\" in 1883 and set down many of his observations and conclusions in a book, \"Inquiries into Human Faculty and Its Development\". He believed that a scheme of 'marks' for family merit should be defined, and early marriage between families of high rank be encouraged by provision of monetary incentives. He pointed out some of the tendencies in British society, such as the late marriages of eminent people, and the paucity of their children, which he thought were \"dysgenic\". He advocated encouraging eugenic marriages by supplying able couples with incentives to have children. On 29 October 1901, Galton chose to address eugenic issues when he delivered the second Huxley lecture at the Royal Anthropological Institute.\n\n\"The Eugenics Review\", the journal of the Eugenics Education Society, commenced publication in 1909. Galton, the Honorary President of the society, wrote the foreword for the first volume. The First International Congress of Eugenics was held in July 1912. Winston Churchill and Carls Elliot were among the attendees.\n\nGalton's formulation of regression and its link to the bivariate normal distribution can be traced to his attempts at developing a mathematical model for population stability. Although Galton's first attempt to study Darwinian questions, \"Hereditary Genius\", generated little enthusiasm at the time, the text led to his further studies in the 1870s concerning the inheritance of physical traits. This text contains some crude notions of the concept of regression, described in a qualitative matter. For example, he wrote of dogs: \"If a man breeds from strong, well-shaped dogs, but of mixed pedigree, the puppies will be sometimes, but rarely, the equals of their parents. they will commonly be of a mongrel, nondescript type, because ancestral peculiarities are apt to crop out in the offspring.\" This notion created a problem for Galton, as he could not reconcile the tendency of a population to maintain a normal distribution of traits from generation to generation with the notion of inheritance. It seemed that a large number of factors operated independently on offspring, leading to the normal distribution of a trait in each generation. However, this provided no explanation as to how a parent can have a significant impact on his offspring, which was the basis of inheritance.\n\nGalton's solution to this problem was presented in his Presidential Address at the September 1885 meeting of the British Association for the Advancement of Science, as he was serving at the time as President of Section H: Anthropology. The address was published in \"Nature,\" and Galton further developed the theory in \"Regression toward mediocrity in hereditary stature\" and \"Hereditary Stature.\" An elaboration of this theory was published in 1889 in \"Natural Inheritance.\" There were three key developments that helped Galton develop this theory: the development of the law of error in 1874-1875, the formulation of an empirical law of reversion in 1877, and the development of a mathematical framework encompassing regression using human population data during 1885.\n\nGalton's development of the law of regression to the mean, or reversion, was due to insights from the quincunx and his studies of sweet peas. While Galton had previously invented the quincunx prior to February 1874, the 1877 version of the quincunx had a new feature that helped Galton demonstrate that a normal mixture of normal distributions is also normal. Galton demonstrated this using a new version of quincunx, adding chutes to the apparatus to represent reversion. When the pellets passed through the curved chutes (representing reversion) and then the pins (representing family variability), the result was a stable population. On Friday 19 February 1877 Galton gave a lecture entitled \"Typical Laws of Heredity\" at the Royal Institution in London. In this lecture, he posed that there must a counteracting force to maintain population stability. However, this model required a much larger degree of intergenerational natural selection than was plausible.\n\nIn 1875, Galton started growing sweet peas and addressed the Royal Institution on his findings on 9 February 1877. He found that each group of progeny seeds followed a normal curve, and the curves were equally disperse. Each group was not centered about the parent's weight, but rather at a weight closer to the population average. Galton called this reversion, as every progeny group was distributed at a value that was closer to the population average than the parent. The deviation from the population average was in the same direction, but the magnitude of the deviation was only one-third as large. In doing so, Galton demonstrated that there was variability among each of the families, yet the families combined to produce a stable, normally distributed population. When Galton addressed the British association for the advancement of science in 1885, he said of his investigation of sweet peas, \"I was then blind to what I now perceive to be the simple explanation of the phenomenon.\"\n\nGalton was able to further his notion of regression by collecting and analyzing data on human stature. Galton asked for help of mathematician J. Hamilton Dickson in investigating the geometric relationship of the data. He determined that the regression coefficient did not ensure population stability by chance, but rather that the regression coefficient, conditional variance, and population were interdependent quantities related by a simple equation. Thus Galton identified that the linearity of regression was not coincidental but rather was a necessary consequence of population stability.\n\nThe model for population stability resulted in Galton's formulation of the Law of Ancestral Heredity. This law, which was published in \"Natural Inheritance,\" states that the two parents of an offspring jointly contribute one half of an offspring's heritage, while the other, more-removed ancestors constitute a smaller proportion of the offspring's heritage. Galton viewed reversion as a spring, that when stretched, would return the distribution of traits back to the normal distribution. He concluded that evolution would have to occur via discontinuous steps, as reversion would neutralize any incremental steps. When Mendel's principles were rediscovered in 1900, this resulted in a fierce battle between the followers of Galton's Law of Ancestral Heredity, the biometricians, and those who advocated Mendel's principles.\n\nGalton conducted wide-ranging inquiries into heredity which led him to challenge Charles Darwin's hypothesis of pangenesis. Darwin had proposed as part of this model that certain particles, which he called \"gemmules\" moved throughout the body and were also responsible for the inheritance of acquired characteristics. Galton, in consultation with Darwin, set out to see if they were transported in the blood. In a long series of experiments in 1869 to 1871, he transfused the blood between dissimilar breeds of rabbits, and examined the features of their offspring. He found no evidence of characters transmitted in the transfused blood.\n\nDarwin challenged the validity of Galton's experiment, giving his reasons in an article published in \"Nature\" where he wrote:\n\nNow, in the chapter on Pangenesis in my \"Variation of Animals and Plants under Domestication\" I have not said one word about the blood, or about any fluid proper to any circulating system. It is, indeed, obvious that the presence of gemmules in the blood can form no necessary part of my hypothesis; for I refer in illustration of it to the lowest animals, such as the Protozoa, which do not possess blood or any vessels; and I refer to plants in which the fluid, when present in the vessels, cannot be considered as true blood. The fundamental laws of growth, reproduction, inheritance, &c., are so closely similar throughout the whole organic kingdom, that the means by which the gemmules (assuming for the moment their existence) are diffused through the body, would probably be the same in all beings; therefore the means can hardly be diffusion through the blood. Nevertheless, when I first heard of Mr. Galton's experiments, I did not sufficiently reflect on the subject, and saw not the difficulty of believing in the presence of gemmules in the blood.\n\nGalton explicitly rejected the idea of the inheritance of acquired characteristics (Lamarckism), and was an early proponent of \"hard heredity\" through selection alone. He came close to rediscovering Mendel's particulate theory of inheritance, but was prevented from making the final breakthrough in this regard because of his focus on continuous, rather than discrete, traits (now known as polygenic traits). He went on to found the biometric approach to the study of heredity, distinguished by its use of statistical techniques to study continuous traits and population-scale aspects of heredity.\n\nThis approach was later taken up enthusiastically by Karl Pearson and W.F.R. Weldon; together, they founded the highly influential journal \"Biometrika\" in 1901. (R.A. Fisher would later show how the biometrical approach could be reconciled with the Mendelian approach.) The statistical techniques that Galton invented (correlation, regression—see below) and phenomena he established (regression to the mean) formed the basis of the biometric approach and are now essential tools in all the social sciences.\n\nIn 1884, London hosted the International Health Exhibition. This exhibition placed much emphasis on highlighting Victorian developments in sanitation and public health, and allowed the nation to display its advanced public health outreach, compared to other countries at the time. Francis Galton took advantage of this opportunity to set up his anthropometric laboratory. He stated that the purpose of this laboratory was to “show the public the simplicity of the instruments and methods by which the chief physical characteristics of man may be measured and recorded.” The laboratory was an interactive walk-through in which physical characteristics such as height, weight, and eyesight, would be measured for each subject after payment of an admission fee. Upon entering the laboratory, a subject would visit the following stations in order. First, they would fill out a form with personal and family history (age, birthplace, marital status, residence, and occupation), then visit stations that recorded hair and eye color, followed by the keenness, color-sense, and depth perception of sight. Next, they would examine the keenness, or relative acuteness, of hearing and highest audible note of their hearing followed by an examination of their sense of touch. However, because the surrounding area was noisy, the apparatus intended to measure hearing was rendered ineffective by the noise and echoes in the building. Their breathing capacity would also be measured, as well as their ability to throw a punch. The next stations would examine strength of both pulling and squeezing with both hands. Lastly, subjects' heights in various positions (sitting, standing, etc.) as well as arm span and weight would be measured. One excluded characteristic of interest was the size of the head. Galton notes in his analysis that this omission was mostly for practical reasons. For instance, it would not be very accurate and additionally it would require much time for women to disassemble and reassemble their hair and bonnets. The patrons would then be given a souvenir containing all their biological data, while Galton would also keep a copy for future statistical research.\n\nAlthough the laboratory did not employ any revolutionary measurement techniques, it was unique because of the simple logistics of constructing such a demonstration within a limited space and have it quickly and efficiently be able to gather all the necessary data. The laboratory itself was a see-through (lattice-walled) fenced off gallery measuring 36 feet long by 6 feet long. To collect data efficiently, Galton had to make the process as simple as possible for people to understand. As a result, subjects were taken through the laboratory in pairs so that explanations could be given to two at a time, also in the hope that one of the two would confidently take the initiative to go through all the tests first, encouraging the other. With this design, the total time spent in the exhibit was fourteen minutes for each pair.\n\nGalton states that the measurements of human characteristics are useful for two reasons. First, he states that measuring physical characteristics is useful in order to ensure, on a more domestic level, that children are developing properly. A useful example he gives for the practicality of these domestic measurements is regularly checking a child's eyesight, in order to correct any deficiencies early on. The second use for the data from his anthropometric laboratory is for statistical studies. He comments on the usefulness of the collected data to compare attributes across occupations, residences, races, etc. The exhibit at the health exhibition allowed Galton to collect a large amount of raw data from which to conduct further comparative studies. He had 9,337 respondents, each measured in 17 categories, creating a rather comprehensive statistical database.\n\nAfter the conclusion of the International Health Exhibition, Galton used these data to confirm in humans his theory of linear regression, posed after studying sweet peas. The accumulation of this human data allowed him to observe the correlation between forearm length and height, head width and head breadth, and head length and height. With these observations he was able to write “Co-relations and their Measurements, chiefly from Anthropometric Data\". In this publication, Galton defined what co-relation as a phenomenon that occurs when \"the variation of the one [variable] is accompanied on the average by more or less variation of the other, and in the same direction.\"\n\nThe method used in \"Hereditary Genius\" has been described as the first example of historiometry. To bolster these results, and to attempt to make a distinction between 'nature' and 'nurture' (he was the first to apply this phrase to the topic), he devised a questionnaire that he sent out to 190 Fellows of the Royal Society. He tabulated characteristics of their families, such as birth order and the occupation and race of their parents. He attempted to discover whether their interest in science was 'innate' or due to the encouragements of others. The studies were published as a book, \"English men of science: their nature and nurture\", in 1874. In the end, it promoted the nature versus nurture question, though it did not settle it, and provided some fascinating data on the sociology of scientists of the time.\n\nSir Francis was the first scientist to recognise what is now known as the lexical hypothesis. This is the idea that the most salient and socially relevant personality differences in people's lives will eventually become encoded into language. The hypothesis further suggests that by sampling language, it is possible to derive a comprehensive taxonomy of human personality traits.\n\nGalton's inquiries into the mind involved detailed recording of people's subjective accounts of whether and how their minds dealt with phenomena such as mental imagery. To better elicit this information, he pioneered the use of the questionnaire. In one study, he asked his fellow members of the Royal Society of London to describe mental images that they experienced. In another, he collected in-depth surveys from eminent scientists for a work examining the effects of nature and nurture on the propensity toward scientific thinking.\n\nCore to any statistical analysis is the concept that measurements vary: they have both a central tendency, or mean, and a spread around this central value, or variance. In the late 1860s, Galton conceived of a measure to quantify normal variation: the standard deviation.\n\nGalton was a keen observer. In 1906, visiting a livestock fair, he stumbled upon an intriguing contest. An ox was on display, and the villagers were invited to guess the animal's weight after it was slaughtered and dressed. Nearly 800 participated, and Galton was able to study their individual entries after the event. Galton stated that \"the middlemost estimate expresses the \"vox populi\", every other estimate being condemned as too low or too high by a majority of the voters\", and reported this value (the median, in terminology he himself had introduced, but chose not to use on this occasion) as 1,207 pounds. To his surprise, this was within 0.8% of the weight measured by the judges. Soon afterwards, in response to an enquiry, he reported the mean of the guesses as 1,197 pounds, but did not comment on its improved accuracy. Recent archival research has found some slips in transmitting Galton's calculations to the original article in \"Nature\": the median was actually 1,208 pounds, and the dressed weight of the ox 1,197 pounds, so the mean estimate had zero error. James Surowiecki uses this weight-judging competition as his opening example: had he known the true result, his conclusion on the wisdom of the crowd would no doubt have been more strongly expressed.\n\nThe same year, Galton suggested in a letter to the journal \"Nature\" a better method of cutting a round cake by avoiding making radial incisions.\n\nStudying variation, Galton invented the quincunx, a pachinko-like device also known as the bean machine, as a tool for demonstrating the law of error and the normal distribution.\n\nHe also discovered the properties of the bivariate normal distribution and its relationship to regression analysis.\n\nIn 1846, the French physicist Auguste Bravais (1811–1863) first developed what would become the correlation coefficient. After examining forearm and height measurements, Galton independently rediscovered the concept of correlation in 1888 and demonstrated its application in the study of heredity, anthropology, and psychology. Galton's later statistical study of the probability of extinction of surnames led to the concept of Galton–Watson stochastic processes. This is now a core of modern statistics and regression.\n\nGalton invented the use of the regression line and for the choice of r (for reversion or regression) to represent the correlation coefficient.\n\nIn the 1870s and 1880s he was a pioneer in the use of normal theory to fit histograms and ogives to actual tabulated data, much of which he collected himself: for instance large samples of sibling and parental height. Consideration of the results from these empirical studies led to his further insights into evolution, natural selection, and regression to the mean.\n\nGalton was the first to describe and explain the common phenomenon of regression toward the mean, which he first observed in his experiments on the size of the seeds of successive generations of sweet peas.\n\nThe conditions under which regression toward the mean occurs depend on the way the term is mathematically defined. Galton first observed the phenomenon in the context of simple linear regression of data points. Galton developed the following model: pellets fall through a \"quincunx\" or \"bean machine\" forming a normal distribution centered directly under their entrance point. These pellets could then be released down into a second gallery (corresponding to a second measurement occasion. Galton then asked the reverse question \"from where did these pellets come?\"\nThe answer was not \"on average directly above\". Rather it was \"on average, more towards the middle\", for the simple reason that there were more pellets above it towards the middle that could wander left than there were in the left extreme that could wander to the right, inwards (p. 477) \n\nGalton went beyond measurement and summary to attempt to explain the phenomena he observed. Among such developments, he proposed an early theory of ranges of sound and hearing, and collected large quantities of anthropometric data from the public through his popular and long-running Anthropometric Laboratory, which he established in 1884, and where he studied over 9,000 people. It was not until 1985 that these data were analysed in their entirety.\n\nGalton's study of human abilities ultimately led to the foundation of differential psychology and the formulation of the first mental tests. He was interested in measuring humans in every way possible. This included measuring their ability to make sensory discrimination which he assumed was linked to intellectual prowess. Galton suggested that individual differences in general ability are reﬂected in performance on relatively simple sensory capacities and in speed of reaction to a stimulus, variables that could be objectively measured by tests of sensory discrimination and reaction\ntime. He also measured how quickly people reacted which he later linked to internal wiring which ultimately limited intelligence ability. Throughout his research Galton assumed that people who reacted faster were more intelligent than others.\n\nGalton also devised a technique called \"composite portraiture\" (produced by superimposing multiple photographic portraits of individuals' faces registered on their eyes) to create an average face (see averageness). In the 1990s, a hundred years after his discovery, much psychological research has examined the attractiveness of these faces, an aspect that Galton had remarked on in his original lecture. Others, including Sigmund Freud in his work on dreams, picked up Galton's suggestion that these composites might represent a useful metaphor for an Ideal type or a concept of a \"natural kind\" (see Eleanor Rosch)—such as Jewish men, criminals, patients with tuberculosis, etc.—onto the same photographic plate, thereby yielding a blended whole, or \"composite\", that he hoped could generalise the facial appearance of his subject into an \"average\" or \"central type\". (See also entry \"Modern physiognomy\" under Physiognomy).\n\nThis work began in the 1880s while the Jewish scholar Joseph Jacobs studied anthropology and statistics with Francis Galton. Jacobs asked Galton to create a composite photograph of a Jewish type. One of Jacobs' first publications that used Galton's composite imagery was \"The Jewish Type, and Galton's Composite Photographs,\" \"Photographic News\", 29, (24 April 1885): 268–269.\n\nGalton hoped his technique would aid medical diagnosis, and even criminology through the identification of typical criminal faces. However, his technique did not prove useful and fell into disuse, although after much work on it including by photographers Lewis Hine and John L. Lovell and Arthur Batut.\n\nIn a Royal Institution paper in 1888 and three books (\"Finger Prints\", 1892; \"Decipherment of Blurred Finger Prints\", 1893; and \"Fingerprint Directories\", 1895), Galton estimated the probability of two persons having the same fingerprint and studied the heritability and racial differences in fingerprints. He wrote about the technique (inadvertently sparking a controversy between Herschel and Faulds that was to last until 1917), identifying common pattern in fingerprints and devising a classification system that survives to this day.\n\nThe method of identifying criminals by their fingerprints had been introduced in the 1860s by Sir William James Herschel in India, and their potential use in forensic work was first proposed by Dr Henry Faulds in 1880, but Galton was the first to place the study on a scientific footing, which assisted its acceptance by the courts. Galton pointed out that there were specific types of fingerprint patterns. He described and classified them into eight broad categories: 1: plain arch, 2: tented arch, 3: simple loop, 4: central pocket loop, 5: double loop, 6: lateral pocket loop, 7: plain whorl, and 8: accidental.\n\nIn an effort to reach a wider audience, Galton worked on a novel entitled \"Kantsaywhere\" from May until December 1910. The novel described a utopia organised by a eugenic religion, designed to breed fitter and smarter humans. His unpublished notebooks show that this was an expansion of material he had been composing since at least 1901. He offered it to Methuen for publication, but they showed little enthusiasm. Galton wrote to his niece that it should be either \"smothered or superseded\". His niece appears to have burnt most of the novel, offended by the love scenes, but large fragments survived, and it was published online by University College, London.\n\nOver the course of his career Galton received many awards, including the Copley Medal of the Royal Society (1910). He received in 1853 the Founder's Medal, the highest award of the Royal Geographical Society, for his explorations and map-making of southwest Africa. He was elected a member of the Athenaeum Club in 1855 and made a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1860. His autobiography also lists:\n\n\nGalton was knighted in 1909. His statistical heir Karl Pearson, first holder of the Galton Chair of Eugenics at University College, London (now Galton Chair of Genetics), wrote a three-volume biography of Galton, in four parts, after his death . In the early days of IQ testing, Lewis Terman estimated that Galton's childhood IQ was about 200, based on the fact that he consistently performed mentally at roughly twice his chronological age . (This follows the original definition of IQ as mental age divided by chronological age, rather than the modern definition based on the standard distribution and standard deviation.)\n\nThe flowering plant genus \"Galtonia\" was named in his honour.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20398284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20398284", "title": "HONOReform", "text": "HONOReform\n\nHONOReform (Hepatitis Outbreaks National Organization for Reform) – is a patient advocacy organization that seeks to promote adherence to injection safety guidelines and increase governmental oversight of outpatient medical facilities. In addition to promoting lessons learned from outbreaks of hepatitis C, the organization advocates for a more compassionate response to large scale medical disasters.\n\nHONOReform was founded by patients and families impacted by a Nebraska outbreak of hepatitis C in which 99 cancer patients were infected when doctors and nurses at their oncology clinic were found to have reused syringes. For years it remained the largest outbreak of hepatitis C in American healthcare history, though similar tragedies continue to occur.\n\nSince 1998, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has documented 33 outbreaks of hepatitis B and C as a result of negligent injection safety practices in nonhospital healthcare settings. In January 2009, the \"Annals of Internal Medicine\" noted over 60,000 patients have been verified by the CDC to be potentially exposed to hepatitis in the outbreaks and that these outbreaks are likely only \"the tip of the iceberg\".\n\nHONOReform was founded by Evelyn McKnight, Dr. Tom McKnight, and Travis Bennington, all of Fremont, Nebraska. Evelyn McKnight is an audiologist who was battling a recurrence of breast cancer when she learned she had been infected with hepatitis C because improper injection safety protocols at the Fremont Cancer Center.\n\nDuring chemotherapy treatments, medical professionals access multi-dose bags of saline to flush patient ports. Outbreaks occur as a result of doctors and nurses reusing syringes, contaminating the saline bag with the blood of multiple patients.\n\nTom McKnight – Evelyn’s husband – is a local family practice physician who helped uncover the outbreak when some of his patients were found to have hepatitis C. Travis Bennington is a local attorney who represented 19 of the 99 Nebraska patients in their malpractice claims.\n\nHONOReform was founded in 2007 using settlement funds Evelyn McKnight secured in her malpractice trial. HONOReform was established to advocate patient justice, safety, and compassion by promoting the lessons learned from hepatitis outbreaks.\n\nSince its formation, HONOReform advocates have lobbied the U.S. Congress and federal health agencies for greater oversight of private physician offices and other stand-alone healthcare facilities. HONOReform has fought to raise awareness to widely accepted healthcare standards that call for using syringes and similar products once.\n\nIn addition to its federal advocacy efforts, HONOReform leaders have helped other communities recover from similar outbreaks. Following the Las Vegas, Nevada tragedy, Evelyn McKnight testified before the Nevada Legislature’s Legislative Committee on Health Care and also took part in numerous community healing and education events.\n\nThe Safe Injection Practices Coalition (SIPC) is a partnership of healthcare-related organizations, patient advocacy organizations, industry partners, and other public health partners, led by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). The CDC Foundation is the convening partner of the Coalition, formed to promote safe injection practices in all U.S. healthcare settings. In 2009, SIPC Founding Partners developed the One & Only Campaign—a public health education and awareness campaign—aimed at both healthcare providers and patients to advance and promote safe injection practices. \nAlthough safe injection practices represent very basic infection control measures, CDC continues to identify and investigate outbreaks associated with poor practices. Breakdowns in proper infection control have involved providers reusing needles, syringes or single-dose medication vials, all of which are meant for one patient and one procedure. These breaches can cause irreparable damage, exposing patients to bloodborne illnesses such as hepatitis and HIV, and to life-threatening bacterial infections. \nThrough targeted education and awareness efforts, the One & Only Campaign empowers patients and healthcare providers to insist on nothing less than safe injections – every time, for every patient.\n\nIn February 2008, the largest patient notification of its kind occurred when 40,000 patients of the Endoscopy Center of Southern Nevada in Las Vegas were urged to be tested for hepatitis and HIV. Subsequently, an additional 10,000 patients of the center along with 13,000 patients at the Desert Shadow Endoscopy Center were advised to be tested. To date, a total of 114 confirmed cases of hepatitis C have been linked to the outbreaks.\n\nMore than 16,000 patients of Grand Rapids, Michigan dermatologist Dr. Robert W. Stokes were issued letters urging them to be tested for hepatitis, HIV and other diseases. Dr. Stokes was accused of reusing on patients syringes and sutures intended for one-time use in one patient. Stokes is currently in federal prison, serving a 10-and-a-half-year sentence for insurance fraud, and has had his medical license revoked. Patients impacted by the outbreak pushed for a number of reforms including greater penalties for such actions and a measure that would prohibit or severely limit the reuse of medical devices.\n\nIn September 2008, 1,200 patients at a cardiology practice in Laurinburg, North Carolina were warned of exposure to hepatitis, HIV and other diseases because of unsafe medical practices at the office of Dr. Matthew Block. To date, eight patients have been tested positive for hepatitis in relation to procedures at the clinic.\n\nIn September 2008, Evelyn McKnight and Travis Bennington published a book focused on the Nebraska outbreak entitled \"A Never Event: Exposing the Largest Outbreak of Hepatitis C in American Healthcare History\". The book was originally produced, designed and published by Arbor Books and is now published by History Examined, LLC.\n"}
{"id": "10424118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10424118", "title": "Health promoting hospitals", "text": "Health promoting hospitals\n\nThe International Network of Health Promoting Hospitals and Health Services (HPH) is a network initiated by the World Health Organization - Regional Office for Europe. It is based on the health promotion philosophy of the World Health Organization (WHO) as outlined in the WHO Ottawa Charter for Health Promotion (WHO 1986) which was re-confirmed in the WHO Bangkok Charter for Health Promotion in a Globalised World (WHO 2005).\nThe Ottawa Charter lists five action areas for health promotion, of which health care services are one:\nThe responsibility for health promotion in health services is shared among individuals, community groups, health professionals, health service institutions and governments.\n\nThey must work together towards a health care system which contributes to the pursuit of health. The role of the health sector must move increasingly in a health promotion direction, beyond its responsibility for providing clinical and curative services. Health services need to embrace an expanded mandate which is sensitive and respects cultural needs. This mandate should support the needs of individuals and communities for a healthier life, and open channels between the health sector and broader social, political, economic and physical environmental components.\n\nReorienting health services also requires stronger attention to health research as well as changes in professional education and training. This must lead to a change of attitude and organization of health services which refocuses on the total needs of the individual as a whole person. (Ottawa Charter, WHO 1986)\nAccordingly, HPHs aim at improving the health gain of hospitals (and other health services) by a bundle of strategies targeting\n\nBased on the Ottawa Charter, the first conceptual developments on HPH started in 1988. A first model project \"Health and Hospital\", was initiated in 1989 at the Rudolfstiftung Hospital in Vienna, Austria, and successfully finished in 1996. 10 model documents (in German language) summarise the learnings from the pilot project and are available online to guide hospital projects related to health promotion.\n\nIn 1990, the WHO International Network of Health Promoting Hospitals was founded as a multi city action plan of the WHO Healthy Cities Network. In 1991, the HPH network, which was in the beginning an alliance of experts, launched its first policy document, the Budapest Declaration on Health Promoting Hospitals. This document introduces the HPH concept and target groups - patients, staff, community - as well as related HPH strategies and action areas.\n\nIn order to implement HPH on a broader basis, a European Pilot Hospital Project of Health Promoting Hospitals was initiated in 1993, and finished in 1997. 20 hospitals from 11 European countries participated, 19 of which finished the project successfully. \nAlso in 1993, the first international HPH conference was organised, and the first international HPH Newsletter was published.\n\nSince 1995, national and regional networks of HPH, all coordinated by their own national or regional coordinating centres, are being implemented and developed in order to disseminate HPH to as many hospitals and health care institutions as possible. The development of the HPH networks called for a new policy document: The Vienna Recommendations on Health Promoting Hospitals were launched in 1997.\n\nIn 2009, HPH has become a global movement with national and regional networks, individual member hospitals and health promotion initiatives on all continents. HPH member hospitals currently exist in Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brasil, Bulgaria, Canada, Czech Republic, Denmark, England, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Korea, Latvia, Lithuania, Northern Ireland, Norway, Poland, Russian Federation, Scotland, Serbia, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan, and the USA.\n\nIn addition, several task forces develop specific HPH concepts, strategies and tools on specific subjects or for specific clinical areas:\n\nHPH combines a vision, a concept, and a set of 18 core strategies and 5 standards. \n\nIn accordance to health promotion theory, the HPH standards and strategies are based on the principles of the settings approach, empowerment and enablement, participation, a holistic concept of health (somato-psycho-social concept of health), intersectoral cooperation, equity, sustainability, and multi-strategy (Rootman et al. 2001). \n\nIn order to realise the full potential of the comprehensive HPH approach for increasing the health gain of hospital patients, staff, and the community, HPH needs to be supported by an organisational structure: Support from top management, a management structure that embraces all organisatial units, a budget, specific aims and targets, action plans, projects, and programs, standards, guidelines and other tools for implementing health promotion into everyday business. This needs to be supported by evaluation and monitoring, professional training and education, research and dissemination. \n\nOne way to implement HPH in a hospital or other health care organisation is by linking HPH aims and targets with quality management, thus understanding health promotion as one specific quality aspect in hospitals and health care. Ideally any managerial or professional decision in an HPH should also consider the health / disease impact of that decision, together with other decision criteria (e.g. effectiveness, sustainability).\n\nThe international HPH Network was initiated by and is affiliated to WHO-Euro.\nIt is governed by a steering committee which is composed of elected national / regional network coordinators and representatives of WHO and WHO Collaborating Centres who support the network internationally:\n\nThe WHO Collaborating Centre on Evidence Based Health Promotion in Hospitals, Copenhagen, Denmark, runs the International HPH Network secretariat and is responsible for managing and growing membership as well as developing and implementing the internal and external communications strategy.\nThe WHO Collaborating Centre on Health Promotion in Hospitals and Health Care, Vienna, Austria, is amongst others responsible for the scientific preparation of the annual international HPH conferences and for the scientific editing of the semi-annual HPH Newsletter.\n\nGroene O, Garcia-Barbero M (ed). Health promotion in hospitals: evidence and quality management. \nWHO Regional Office for Europe, Copenhagen 2005\n\nGroene O, SJ Jorgensen. Health promotion in hospitals—a strategy to improve quality in health care. The European Journal of Public Health 2005: 15 (1), 6-8\n\nGroene O (ed). Implementing health promotion in hospitals: Manual and self-assessment forms. World Health Organization, Copenhagen 2006\n\nGroene O, Alonso J, Klazinga N. Development and validation of the WHO self-assessment tool for health promotion in hospitals: results of a study in 38 hospitals in eight countries. Health Promotion International 2010: 25 (2), 221-229\n\nDietscher C, Pelikan JM, Schmied H. (2014): Health Promoting Hospitals. In: Oxford Bibliographies in Public Health. Last modified: 07/30/2014. DOI: 10.1093/OBO/9780199756797-0131\n\nGraham, R., Boyko, J. A., & Sibbald, S. L. (2014). Health Promoting Hospitals in Canada: a Proud Past, an Uncertain Future. Clinical Health Promotion 4(2): 70-75.\n"}
{"id": "39160405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39160405", "title": "Healthcare in Liechtenstein", "text": "Healthcare in Liechtenstein\n\nThe nation of Liechtenstein has a universal health care system with decentralized, free market elements through mandated health insurance coverage for every person residing in the country (not necessarily just every citizen). \n\nBroadly speaking, individuals shop around for their own private health insurance plan, known by the abbreviation 'OKP', with government registered and regulated companies. Various supplementary services with varying private contribution rates exist for those with special healthcare needs.\n\nThe basic plans cover specialist treatments from neighboring nations such as Switzerland and Austria, though patients share some costs. Regular health check-ups with general practitioners are covered completely, with no out-of-pocket expenses.\n\nAll permanent residents of Liechtenstein must contribute to the national healthcare fund, and employers must register their staff with the health insurance fund. Employees and employers pay into the healthcare fund. Dependent family members are covered by the contributions paid by employed family members. The unemployed, old age pensioners and people on long-term sickness benefit or maternity leave do not have to pay healthcare contributions. Self-employed persons must make their own contributions. The national healthcare fund covers most medical services including treatment by specialists, hospitalisation, prescriptions, pregnancy and childbirth and rehabilitation.\n\nThere are around 64 general practitioners and consultants in Liechtenstein, though they are very competent and well-trained. General practitioners (GPs) prescribe drugs, treat acute and chronic illnesses, and provide preventive care and health education. Consultants are senior doctors who have completed a higher level of training, and tend to specialize in one field, such as gynecology, oncology, pediatrics, and dermatology. GPs must refer a patient to a consultant.\n\nLiechtenstein has one hospital, the National Hospital, situated in the capital, Vaduz, which is run in conjunction with private doctors specializing in internal medicine, surgery, gynecology, obstetrics, and psychiatry. Emergency care at the hospital is free and available even to people who are not insured. There are numerous health centers throughout the country which only provide outpatient care, but offer a wide variety of specialist services, such as general practice, maternity care, pediatrics, and dental care, as well as laboratory, radiology, and other diagnostic services. They can also provide emergency medical aid. Outside Vaduz, every town has an emergency service operated by GPs and specialists, and doctors trained in emergency medicine travel with the ambulance service. Pharmacies are located throughout the country, and a pharmacist is on call at all times. \n\nFor serious illnesses or complicated bone fractures, patients are transferred to specialized hospitals in Switzerland and Austria.\n\nThere are private clinics staffed and managed by independent doctors and specialists operating in Liechtenstein. There are also about 26 dentists in the country, and all dental care is private and must be paid for.\n\nAbortion in Liechtenstein is illegal in almost all circumstances and is punishable by prison terms for the woman and the physician. An attempt to legalize it in 2011 was defeated by voters. In April and November 2012, the Landtag failed to advance proposals to relax abortion laws.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4774419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4774419", "title": "Herpes simplex virus", "text": "Herpes simplex virus\n\nHerpes simplex virus 1 and 2 (HSV-1 and HSV-2), also known as human herpesvirus 1 and 2 (HHV-1 and HHV-2), are two members of the human \"Herpesviridae\" family, a set of viruses that infect the majority of humans. Both HSV-1 (which produces most cold sores) and HSV-2 (which produces most genital herpes) are very common and contagious. They can be spread when an infected person begins shedding the virus. About 67% of the world population under the age of 50 has HSV-1. In the United States more than one-in-six people have HSV-2. Although it can be transmitted through any intimate contact, it is one of the most common sexually transmitted infections.\n\nMany of those who are infected never develop symptoms. Symptoms, when they occur, may include watery blisters in the skin or mucous membranes of the mouth, lips, nose, or genitals. Lesions heal with a scab characteristic of herpetic disease. Sometimes, the viruses cause very mild or atypical symptoms during outbreaks. However, they can also cause more troublesome forms of herpes simplex. As neurotropic and neuroinvasive viruses, HSV-1 and -2 persist in the body by hiding from the immune system in the cell bodies of neurons. After the initial or primary infection, some infected people experience sporadic episodes of viral reactivation or outbreaks. In an outbreak, the virus in a nerve cell becomes active and is transported via the neuron's axon to the skin, where virus replication and shedding occur and cause new sores.\n\nHSV-1 and HSV-2 are transmitted by contact with an infected person who has reactivations of the virus. HSV-2 is periodically shed in the human genital tract, most often asymptomatically. Most sexual transmissions occur during periods of asymptomatic shedding. Asymptomatic reactivation means that the virus causes atypical, subtle, or hard-to-notice symptoms that are not identified as an active herpes infection, so acquiring the virus is possible even if no active HSV blisters or sores are present. In one study, daily genital swab samples found HSV-2 at a median of 12–28% of days among those who have had an outbreak, and 10% of days among those suffering from asymptomatic infection, with many of these episodes occurring without visible outbreak (\"subclinical shedding\").\n\nIn another study, 73 subjects were randomized to receive valaciclovir 1 g daily or placebo for 60 days each in a two-way crossover design. A daily swab of the genital area was self-collected for HSV-2 detection by polymerase chain reaction, to compare the effect of valaciclovir versus placebo on asymptomatic viral shedding in immunocompetent, HSV-2 seropositive subjects without a history of symptomatic genital herpes infection. The study found that valaciclovir significantly reduced shedding during subclinical days compared to placebo, showing a 71% reduction; 84% of subjects had no shedding while receiving valaciclovir versus 54% of subjects on placebo. About 88% of patients treated with valaciclovir had no recognized signs or symptoms versus 77% for placebo.\n\nFor HSV-2, subclinical shedding may account for most of the transmission. Studies on discordant partners (one infected with HSV-2, one not) show that the transmission rate is approximately 5 per 10,000 sexual contacts. Atypical symptoms are often attributed to other causes, such as a yeast infection. HSV-1 is often acquired orally during childhood. It may also be sexually transmitted, including contact with saliva, such as kissing and mouth-to-genital contact (oral sex). HSV-2 is primarily a sexually transmitted infection, but rates of HSV-1 genital infections are increasing.\n\nBoth viruses may also be transmitted vertically during childbirth. However, the risk of infection transmission is minimal if the mother has no symptoms or exposed blisters during delivery. The risk is considerable when the mother is infected with the virus for the first time during late pregnancy.\n\nHerpes simplex viruses can affect areas of skin exposed to contact with an infected person (although shaking hands with an infected person does not transmit this disease). An example of this is herpetic whitlow, which is a herpes infection on the fingers. This was a common affliction of dental surgeons prior to the routine use of gloves when conducting treatment on patients.\n\nAnimal herpes viruses all share some common properties. The structure of herpes viruses consists of a relatively large, double-stranded, linear DNA genome encased within an icosahedral protein cage called the capsid, which is wrapped in a lipid bilayer called the envelope. The envelope is joined to the capsid by means of a tegument. This complete particle is known as the virion. HSV-1 and HSV-2 each contain at least 74 genes (or open reading frames, ORFs) within their genomes, although speculation over gene crowding allows as many as 84 unique protein coding genes by 94 putative ORFs. These genes encode a variety of proteins involved in forming the capsid, tegument and envelope of the virus, as well as controlling the replication and infectivity of the virus. These genes and their functions are summarized in the table below.\n\nThe genomes of HSV-1 and HSV-2 are complex and contain two unique regions called the long unique region (U) and the short unique region (U). Of the 74 known ORFs, U contains 56 viral genes, whereas U contains only 12. Transcription of HSV genes is catalyzed by RNA polymerase II of the infected host. Immediate early genes, which encode proteins that regulate the expression of early and late viral genes, are the first to be expressed following infection. Early gene expression follows, to allow the synthesis of enzymes involved in DNA replication and the production of certain envelope glycoproteins. Expression of late genes occurs last; this group of genes predominantly encode proteins that form the virion particle.\n\nFive proteins from (U) form the viral capsid - UL6, UL18, UL35, UL38, and the major capsid protein UL19.\n\nEntry of HSV into a host cell involves several glycoproteins on the surface of the enveloped virus binding to their transmembrane receptors on the cell surface. Many of these receptors are then pulled inwards by the cell, which is thought to open a ring of three gHgL heterodimers stabilizing a compact conformation of the gB glycoprotein, so that it springs out and punctures the cell membrane. The envelope covering the virus particle then fuses with the cell membrane, creating a pore through which the contents of the viral envelope enters the host cell.\n\nThe sequential stages of HSV entry are analogous to those of other viruses. At first, complementary receptors on the virus and the cell surface bring the viral and cell membranes into proximity. Interactions of these molecules then form a stable entry pore through which the viral envelope contents are introduced to the host cell. The virus can also be endocytosed after binding to the receptors, and the fusion could occur at the endosome. In electron micrographs, the outer leaflets of the viral and cellular lipid bilayers have been seen merged; this hemifusion may be on the usual path to entry or it may usually be an arrested state more likely to be captured than a transient entry mechanism.\n\nIn the case of a herpes virus, initial interactions occur when two viral envelope glycoprotein called glycoprotein C (gC) and glycoprotein B (gB) bind to a cell surface particle called heparan sulfate. Next, the major receptor binding protein, glycoprotein D (gD), binds specifically to at least one of three known entry receptors. These cell receptors include herpesvirus entry mediator (HVEM), nectin-1 and 3-O sulfated heparan sulfate. The nectin receptors usually produce cell-cell adhesion, to provide a strong point of attachment for the virus to the host cell. These interactions bring the membrane surfaces into mutual proximity and allow for other glycoproteins embedded in the viral envelope to interact with other cell surface molecules.\nOnce bound to the HVEM, gD changes its conformation and interacts with viral glycoproteins H (gH) and L (gL), which form a complex. The interaction of these membrane proteins may result in a hemifusion state. gB interaction with the gH/gL complex creates an entry pore for the viral capsid. gB interacts with glycosaminoglycans on the surface of the host cell. \n\nAfter the viral capsid enters the cellular cytoplasm, it is transported to the cell nucleus. Once attached to the nucleus at a nuclear entry pore, the capsid ejects its DNA contents via the capsid portal. The capsid portal is formed by 12 copies of portal protein, UL6, arranged as a ring; the proteins contain a leucine zipper sequence of amino acids, which allow them to adhere to each other. Each icosahedral capsid contains a single portal, located in one vertex.\nThe DNA exits the capsid in a single linear segment.\n\nHSV evades the immune system through interference with MHC class I antigen presentation on the cell surface, by blocking the transporter associated with antigen processing (TAP) induced by the secretion of ICP-47 by HSV. In the host cell, TAP transports digested viral antigen epitope peptides from the cytosol to the endoplasmic reticulum, allowing these epitopes to be combined with MHC class I molecules and presented on the surface of the cell. Viral epitope presentation with MHC class I is a requirement for activation of cytotoxic T-lymphocytes (CTLs), the major effectors of the cell-mediated immune response against virally-infected cells. ICP-47 prevents initiation of a CTL-response against HSV, allowing the virus to survive for a protracted period in the host.\n\nFollowing infection of a cell, a cascade of herpes virus proteins, called immediate-early, early, and late, is produced. Research using flow cytometry on another member of the herpes virus family, Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus, indicates the possibility of an additional lytic stage, delayed-late. These stages of lytic infection, particularly late lytic, are distinct from the latency stage. In the case of HSV-1, no protein products are detected during latency, whereas they are detected during the lytic cycle.\n\nThe early proteins transcribed are used in the regulation of genetic replication of the virus. On entering the cell, an α-TIF protein joins the viral particle and aids in immediate-early transcription. The virion host shutoff protein (VHS or UL41) is very important to viral replication. This enzyme shuts off protein synthesis in the host, degrades host mRNA, helps in viral replication, and regulates gene expression of viral proteins. The viral genome immediately travels to the nucleus, but the VHS protein remains in the cytoplasm.\n\nThe late proteins form the capsid and the receptors on the surface of the virus. Packaging of the viral particles — including the genome, core and the capsid - occurs in the nucleus of the cell. Here, concatemers of the viral genome are separated by cleavage and are placed into formed capsids. HSV-1 undergoes a process of primary and secondary envelopment. The primary envelope is acquired by budding into the inner nuclear membrane of the cell. This then fuses with the outer nuclear membrane, releasing a naked capsid into the cytoplasm. The virus acquires its final envelope by budding into cytoplasmic vesicles.\n\nHSVs may persist in a quiescent but persistent form known as latent infection, notably in neural ganglia. HSV-1 tends to reside in the trigeminal ganglia, while HSV-2 tends to reside in the sacral ganglia, but these are tendencies only, not fixed behavior. During latent infection of a cell, HSVs express latency-associated transcript (LAT) RNA. LAT regulates the host cell genome and interferes with natural cell death mechanisms. By maintaining the host cells, LAT expression preserves a reservoir of the virus, which allows subsequent, usually symptomatic, periodic recurrences or \"outbreaks\" characteristic of nonlatency. Whether or not recurrences are symptomatic, viral shedding occurs to infect a new host. A protein found in neurons may bind to herpes virus DNA and regulate latency. Herpes virus DNA contains a gene for a protein called ICP4, which is an important transactivator of genes associated with lytic infection in HSV-1. Elements surrounding the gene for ICP4 bind a protein known as the human neuronal protein neuronal restrictive silencing factor (NRSF) or human repressor element silencing transcription factor (REST). When bound to the viral DNA elements, histone deacetylation occurs atop the \"ICP4\" gene sequence to prevent initiation of transcription from this gene, thereby preventing transcription of other viral genes involved in the lytic cycle. Another HSV protein reverses the inhibition of ICP4 protein synthesis. ICP0 dissociates NRSF from the \"ICP4\" gene and thus prevents silencing of the viral DNA.\n\nThe herpes simplex 1 genomes can be classified into six clades. Four of these occur in East Africa, one in East Asia and one in Europe and North America. This suggests that the virus may have originated in East Africa. The most recent common ancestor of the Eurasian strains appears to have evolved ~60,000 years ago. The East Asian HSV-1 isolates have an unusual pattern that is currently best explained by the two waves of migration responsible for the peopling of Japan.\n\nHerpes simplex 2 genomes can be divided into two groups: one is globally distributed and the other is mostly limited to sub Saharan Africa. The globably distributed genotype has undergone an ancient recombination with herpes simplex 1.\n\nThe mutation rate has been estimated to be ~1.38×10 substitutions/site/year. In clinical setting, the mutations in either the thymidine kinase gene or DNA polymerase gene has caused resistance to aciclovir. However, most of the mutations occur in the thymidine kinase gene rather than the DNA polymerase gene.\n\nAnother analysis has estimated the mutation rate in the herpes simplex 1 genome to be 1.82×10 nucleotide substitution per site per year. This analysis placed the most recent common ancestor of this virus ~710,000 years ago.\n\nThe herpes viruses establish lifelong infections (thus cannot be eradicated from the body). Because the virus is a foreign pathogen, a human body's immune system as well as its specialty antigen naturally diminishes the virus.\n\nTreatment usually involves general-purpose antiviral drugs that interfere with viral replication, reduce the physical severity of outbreak-associated lesions, and lower the chance of transmission to others. Studies of vulnerable patient populations have indicated that daily use of antivirals such as aciclovir and valaciclovir can reduce reactivation rates.\n\nIt was reported, in 1979, that there is a possible link between HSV-1 and Alzheimer's disease, in people with the epsilon4 allele of the gene APOE. HSV-1 appears to be particularly damaging to the nervous system and increases one’s risk of developing Alzheimer’s disease. The virus interacts with the components and receptors of lipoproteins, which may lead to the development of Alzheimer's disease. This research identifies HSVs as the pathogen most clearly linked to the establishment of Alzheimer’s. According to a study done in 1997, without the presence of the gene allele, HSV-1 does not appear to cause any neurological damage or increase the risk of Alzheimer’s. However, a more recent prospective study published in 2008 with a cohort of 591 people showed a statistically significant difference between patients with antibodies indicating recent reactivation of HSV and those without these antibodies in the incidence of Alzheimer's disease, without direct correlation to the APOE-epsilon4 allele. It should be noted that the trial had a small sample of patients who did not have the antibody at baseline, so the results should be viewed as highly uncertain. In 2011 Manchester University scientists showed that treating HSV1-infected cells with antiviral agents decreased the accumulation of β-amyloid and tau protein, and also decreased HSV-1 replication. \n\nA 2018 retrospective study from Taiwan on 33,000 patients found that being infected with herpes simplex virus increased the risk of dementia 2.56 times (95% CI: 2.3-2.8) in patients not receiving anti-herpetic medications (2.6 times for HSV-1 infections and 2.0 times for HSV-2 infections). However, HSV-infected patients who were receiving anti-herpetic medications (acyclovir, famciclovir, ganciclovir, idoxuridine, penciclovir, tromantadine, valaciclovir, or valganciclovir) showed no elevated risk of dementia compared to patients uninfected with HSV.\n\nMultiplicity reactivation (MR) is the process by which viral genomes containing inactivating damage interact within an infected cell to form a viable viral genome. MR was originally discovered with the bacterial virus bacteriophage T4, but was subsequently also found with pathogenic viruses including influenza virus, HIV-1, adenovirus simian virus 40, vaccinia virus, reovirus, poliovirus and herpes simplex virus.\n\nWhen HSV particles are exposed to doses of a DNA damaging agent that would be lethal in single infections, but are then allowed to undergo multiple infection (i.e. two or more viruses per host cell), MR is observed. Enhanced survival of HSV-1 due to MR occurs upon exposure to different DNA damaging agents, including methyl methanesulfonate, trimethylpsoralen (which causes inter-strand DNA cross-links), and UV light. After treatment of genetically marked HSV with trimethylpsoralen, recombination between the marked viruses increases, suggesting that trimethylpsoralen damage stimulates recombination. MR of HSV appears to partially depend on the host cell recombinational repair machinery since skin fibroblast cells defective in a component of this machinery (i.e. cells from Bloom’s syndrome patients) are deficient in MR. These observations suggest that MR in HSV infections involves genetic recombination between damaged viral genomes resulting in production of viable progeny viruses. HSV-1, upon infecting host cells, induces inflammation and oxidative stress. Thus it appears that the HSV genome may be subjected to oxidative DNA damage during infection, and that MR may enhance viral survival and virulence under these conditions.\n\nModified Herpes simplex virus is considered as a potential therapy for cancer and has been extensively clinically tested to assess its oncolytic (cancer killing) ability. Interim overall survival data from Amgen's phase 3 trial of a genetically-attenuated herpes virus suggests efficacy against melanoma.\n\nHerpes simplex virus is also used as a transneuronal tracer defining connections among neurons by virtue of traversing synapses.\n\nHerpes simplex virus is likely the most common cause of Mollaret's meningitis, and, in worst case scenarios, can lead to a potentially fatal case of herpes simplex encephalitis.\n\nThere exist commonly used vaccines to some herpesviruses, but only veterinary, such as HVT/LT (Turkey herpesvirus vector laryngotracheitis vaccine). However, it prevents atherosclerosis (which histologically mirrors atherosclerosis in humans) in target animals vaccinated.\n\n"}
{"id": "52919782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52919782", "title": "Hypertension and brachydactyly syndrome", "text": "Hypertension and brachydactyly syndrome\n\nHypertension and brachydactyly syndrome (HTNB) also known as Bilginturan syndrome and brachydactyly type E among others is a very rare genetic disorder.\n\nIt was first reported in 1973 by N. Bilginturan et al. The estimated prevalence is less than 1 out of 1,000,000.\n\nThe disorder is characterized by:\nThe disorder is thought to be related to mutations in the PDE3A gene.\n"}
{"id": "92399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=92399", "title": "Impetigo", "text": "Impetigo\n\nImpetigo is a bacterial infection that involves the superficial skin. The most common presentation is yellowish crusts on the face, arms, or legs. Less commonly there may be large blisters which affect the groin or armpits. The lesions may be painful or itchy. Fever is uncommon.\nIt is typically due to either \"Staphylococcus aureus\" or \"Streptococcus pyogenes\". Risk factors include attending day care, crowding, poor nutrition, diabetes mellitus, contact sports, and breaks in the skin such as from mosquito bites, eczema, scabies, or herpes. With contact it can spread around or between people. Diagnosis is typically based on the symptoms and appearance.\nPrevention is by hand washing, avoiding people who are infected, and cleaning injuries. Treatment is typically with antibiotic creams such as mupirocin or fusidic acid. Antibiotics by mouth, such as cephalexin, may be used if large areas are affected. Antibiotic-resistant forms have been found.\nImpetigo affected about 140 million people (2% of the world population) in 2010. It can occur at any age, but is most common in young children. In some places the condition is also known as \"school sores\". Without treatment people typically get better within three weeks. Complications may include cellulitis or poststreptococcal glomerulonephritis. The name is from the Latin \"impetere\" meaning \"attack\".\n\nThis most common form of impetigo, also called nonbullous impetigo, most often begins as a red sore near the nose or mouth which soon breaks, leaking pus or fluid, and forms a honey-colored scab, followed by a red mark which heals without leaving a scar. Sores are not painful, but they may be itchy. Lymph nodes in the affected area may be swollen, but fever is rare. Touching or scratching the sores may easily spread the infection to other parts of the body.\n\nSkin ulcers with redness and scarring also may result from scratching or abrading the skin.\n\nBullous impetigo, mainly seen in children younger than 2 years, involves painless, fluid-filled blisters, mostly on the arms, legs, and trunk, surrounded by red and itchy (but not sore) skin. The blisters may be large or small. After they break, they form yellow scabs.\n\nEcthyma, the nonbullous form of impetigo, produces painful fluid- or pus-filled sores with redness of skin, usually on the arms and legs, become ulcers that penetrate deeper into the dermis. After they break open, they form hard, thick, gray-yellow scabs, which sometimes leave scars. Ecthyma may be accompanied by swollen lymph nodes in the affected area.\n\nImpetigo is primarily caused by \"Staphylococcus aureus\", and sometimes by \"Streptococcus pyogenes\". Both bullous and nonbullous are primarily caused by \"S. aureus\", with \"Streptococcus \"also commonly being involved in the nonbullous form.\n\nImpetigo is more likely to infect children ages 2–5, especially those that attend school or day care. 70% of cases are the nonbullous form and 30% are the bullous form. Other factors can increase the risk of contracting impetigo such as diabetes mellitus, dermatitis, immunodeficiency disorders, and other irritable skin disorders. Impetigo occurs more frequently among people who live in warm climates.\n\nThe infection is spread by direct contact with lesions or with nasal carriers. The incubation period is 1–3 days after exposure to \"Streptococcus\" and 4–10 days for \"Staphylococcus\". Dried streptococci in the air are not infectious to intact skin. Scratching may spread the lesions.\n\nImpetigo is usually diagnosed based on its appearance. It generally appears as honey-colored scabs formed from dried serum, and is often found on the arms, legs, or face. If a visual diagnosis is unclear a culture may be done to test for resistant bacteria.\n\nOther conditions that can result in symptoms similar to the common form include contact dermatitis, herpes simplex virus, discoid lupus, and scabies.\n\nOther conditions that can result in symptoms similar to the blistering form include other bullous skin diseases, burns, and necrotizing fasciitis.\n\nTo prevent the spread of impetigo the skin and any open wounds should be kept clean and covered. Care should be taken to keep fluids from an infected person away from the skin of a non-infected person. Washing hands, linens, and affected areas will lower the likelihood of contact with infected fluids. Scratching can spread the sores; keeping nails short will reduce the chances of spreading. Infected people should avoid contact with others and eliminate sharing of clothing or linens.\n\nChildren with impetigo can return to school 24 hours after starting antibiotic therapy as long as their draining lesions are covered.\n\nAntibiotics, either as a cream or by mouth, are usually prescribed. Mild cases may be treated mupirocin ointments. In 95% of cases, a single 7-day antibiotic course results in resolution in children. It has been advocated that topical antiseptics are not nearly as efficient as topical antibiotics, and therefore should not be used as a replacement.\n\nMore severe cases require oral antibiotics, such as dicloxacillin, flucloxacillin, or erythromycin. Alternatively, amoxicillin combined with clavulanate potassium, cephalosporins (first-generation) and many others may also be used as an antibiotic treatment. Alternatives for people who are seriously allergic to penicillin or infections with methicillin-resistant \"Staphococcus aureus\" include doxycycline, clindamycin, and trimethoprim-sulphamethoxazole. Although doxycycline should not be used in children under the age of eight years old due to the risk of drug-induced tooth discolouration. When streptococci alone are the cause, penicillin is the drug of choice.\n\nWhen the condition presents with ulcers, valacyclovir, an antiviral, may be given in case a viral infection is causing the ulcer.\n\nThere is not enough evidence to recommend alternative medicine such as tea tree oil or honey.\n\nWithout treatment, individuals with impetigo typically get better within three weeks. Complications may include cellulitis or poststreptococcal glomerulonephritis. Rheumatic fever does not appear to be related.\n\nGlobally, impetigo affects more than 162 million children in low to middle income countries. The rates are highest in countries with low available resources and is especially prevalent in the region of Oceania. The tropical climate and high population in lower socioeconomic regions contribute to these high rates. Children under the age of 4 in the United Kingdom are 2.8% more likely than average to contract impetigo; this decreases to 1.6% for children up to 15-years-old. As age increases, the rate of impetigo declines, but all ages are still susceptible.\n\nImpetigo was originally described and differentiated by William Tilbury Fox. The word \"impetigo\" is the generic Latin word for \"skin eruption\", and stems from the verb \"impetere\", \"to attack\" (as in \"impetus\"). For generations, the disease was treated with an application of the antiseptic gentian violet.\n\n"}
{"id": "4292552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4292552", "title": "Infantile cortical hyperostosis", "text": "Infantile cortical hyperostosis\n\nInfantile cortical hyperostosis is a self-limited inflammatory disorder of infants that causes bone changes, soft tissue swelling and irritability. The disease may be present at birth or occur shortly thereafter. The cause is unknown. Both familial and sporadic forms occur. It is also known as Caffey disease or Caffey's disease.\n\nAn affected infant typically has the following triad of signs and symptoms: soft-tissue swelling, bone lesions, and irritability. The swelling occurs suddenly, is deep, firm, and may be tender. Lesions are often asymmetric and may affect several parts of the body. Affected bones have included the mandible, tibia, ulna, clavicle, scapula, ribs, humerus, femur, fibula, skull, ilium, and metatarsals. When the mandible (lower jaw bone) is affected, infants may refuse to eat, leading to failure to thrive.\n\nIt has been associated with \"COL1A1\".\n\nIn the early stages of infantile cortical hyperostosis, biopsy shows inflammation of the periosteum and adjacent soft tissues. After this resolves, the periosteum remains thickened, and subperiosteal immature lamellar bone can be seen on biopsy, while the bone marrow spaces contain vascular fibrous tissue. Eventually the inflammation and subperiosteal changes resolve, and hyperplasia of lamellar cortical bone can be seen.\n\nRadiographs initially show layers of periosteal new bone formation with cortical thickening. Periosteal new bone may cover the diaphysis of the bone, causing an increase in diameter of the bone. Over time, the periosteal new bone density increases, becoming homogenous with the underlying cortex. Eventually the bone remodels and resumes a normal appearance.\n\nMost infants with infantile cortical hyperostosis are diagnosed by physical examination. X-rays can confirm the presence of bone changes and soft tissue swelling. Biopsy of the affected areas can confirm the presence of typical histopathological changes. No specific blood tests exist, but tests such as erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) and alkaline phosphatase levels are often elevated. A complete blood count may show anemia (low red blood cell count) and leukocytosis (high white blood cell count). Other tests may be done to help exclude other diagnoses. Ultrasound imaging can help diagnose prenatal cases.\n\nOsteomyelitis (bone infection), which is much more common than infantile cortical hyperostosis, must be excluded, since it requires urgent treatment. Other diagnoses that can mimic this disorder and need to be excluded include physical trauma, child abuse, Vitamin A excess, hyperphosphatemia, prostaglandin E1 and E2 administration, scurvy, infections (including syphilis), Ewing sarcoma, and metastatic neuroblastoma.\n\nInfantile cortical hyperostosis is a self-limited condition, meaning that the disease resolves on its own without treatment, usually within 6–9 months. Long-term deformities of the involved bones, including bony fusions and limb-length inequalities, are possible but rare.\n\nThe disease has been reported to affect 3 per 1000 infants younger than 6 months in the United States. No predilection by race or sex has been established. Almost all cases occur by the age of 5 months. The familial form is inherited in an autosomal dominant fashion with variable penetrance. The familial form tends to have an earlier onset and is present at birth in 24% of cases, with an average age at onset of 6.8 weeks. The average age at onset for the sporadic form is 9–11 weeks.\n\nCortical hyperostosis is a potential side effect of long-term use of prostaglandins in neonates.\n\nDr. John Caffey (1895–1978) first described infantile cortical hyperostosis in 1945. He described a group of infants with tender swelling in the soft tissues and cortical thickenings in the skeleton, with onset of these findings during the first 3 months of life. Dr. Caffey was regarded throughout the world as the father of pediatric radiology. His classic textbook, Pediatric X-Ray Diagnosis, which was first published in 1945, has become the recognized bible and authority in its field.\n\n"}
{"id": "52053156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52053156", "title": "John Scott Inkster", "text": "John Scott Inkster\n\nJohn Scott Inkster was a British anesthesiologist born in 1924, one of the first paediatric anaesthetists. He graduated from the University of Aberdeen in 1945. Inkster's interest in anesthesia started during his time as a house physician at New End Hospital. John Inkster discovered Positive end-expiratory pressure\n\nJohn Inkster died on September 10, 2011.\n"}
{"id": "17083172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17083172", "title": "Knee scooter", "text": "Knee scooter\n\nA knee scooter or knee walker is a two, three or four-wheeled alternative to crutches or a traditional walker as an ambulation aid. It is known by many other names, such as knee coaster, knee cruiser, knee caddy, orthopaedic scooter, or leg walker.\n\nOver the years it has taken on many forms, from small-wheeled devices suitable for indoor use to larger sturdier units capable of use outside on grass or paved surfaces. Today’s version is usually a lightweight, foldable design that, with the knee flexed, supports the shin of the unusable limb. The opposite foot makes contact with the floor or ground, providing propulsion.\n\nThe objective of the scooter is to create a safe, comfortable, and easy-to-maneuver alternative to the traditional crutch. Prior to its introduction, those experiencing foot surgery, bunionectomies, gout, below the knee amputations, diabetic ulcers and wounds, as well as foot sprains, or fractures had no choice but to limit activity during rehabilitation. Their only options were crutches, a traditional walker, a wheelchair or bed rest.\n\nThe scooter does have limitations that may make it unsuitable for some patients, such as those with leg injuries above or near the knee. It cannot negotiate stairs, and is significantly heavier and more difficult to load into a vehicle than crutches.\n\nAs knee scooters are often used while the user recovers after surgery, they are often rented for a short period of time, usually about 4 weeks. While a Medicare E0118 code may have been present in the past for dealers to provide this to patients/beneficiaries, as changes are made to funding, many dealers have the option of renting these products directly for the short use period. Often due to the complexities and costs, many also choose from purchasing this product as a form of cost saving options.\n\n"}
{"id": "47281669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47281669", "title": "L Lun Wa", "text": "L Lun Wa\n\nL Lun Wa (; also spelt L Lun War and L Loon War) is a Burmese pop singer of Kachin descent. He began pursuing a music career between the ages of 18 and 19, at the same time he was attending medical school at the University of Medicine 2, Yangon. He graduated from medical school, after a 4 year hiatus.\n\nHe is married to Khaing Su, and has two daughters, Maing Maing and Lu Lu. His aunt, L Khun Yi, was a prominent pop singer in the 1980s.\n\n"}
{"id": "21560753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21560753", "title": "List of HIV/AIDS cases and deaths registered by region", "text": "List of HIV/AIDS cases and deaths registered by region\n\nThis page lists the reported and registered HIV/AIDS cases by reporting region. A \"region\" may refer to a country or subdivision, national HIV records are often complicated incomplete or even nonexistent. This list is only documented cases, not for estimated cases. Estimated case numbers differ in significant ways: estimates are available for all areas for all years unlike hard records, and estimates attempt to quantify an epidemic in current time, whereas registered/documented cases are behind the curve, they have lag time to detection and represent the past rather than current situation.\n\nDocumentation of HIV transmission often present with significant holes and inconsistencies. In the earlier years of the epidemic, especially in Africa, health systems where completely overwhelmed and millions of people died without government recordkeeping, there is little way of knowing how many people contracted HIV, to get around the problem to get the total cumulative number of HIV infections, HIV death data is taken into account in the table below where those living with HIV are summed with those died of HIV for a cumulative HIV infection figure, nevertheless, the data of credible death estimates exist only for the specific years where available. In spite of data quality issues, all these types of data help to create an epidemiological picture.\n\nUS CDC has changed reporting standards for AIDS related deaths (again in 2014); HIV case reporting is not uniform among states that also implement their own surveillance. Globally, some 35.3 million are living with HIV/AIDS, World Health Organization (WHO), an estimated 36 million people have died since the first cases were reported in 1981 and 1.6 million people died of HIV/AIDS in 2012. Using WHO statistics, in 2012 the number of people living with HIV was growing at a faster rate (1.98%) than worldwide human population growth (1.1% annual), and the cumulative number of people with HIV is growing at roughly three times faster (3.22%). The costs of treatment is significantly increasing burden on healthcare systems when budgets remain stagnant, causing cutoffs in funding to healthcare providers.\n\n\"Color code: Countries/regions in light blue have latest year HIV cases exceeding 10% of cumulative total, deep blue exceeding 20%, and pink exceeding 30%.\" These colors suggest an outbreak or insufficient reporting. If HIV estimates are correct, government efforts to report are still hugely inadequate, only 1 in 3 HIV cases have ever been reported globally, and 1 in 7 deaths (using this list as reference). Note: Deaths in US jurisdictions include all causes. Documented deaths may be estimated, please consult individual references sources.\n\"Word of caution on data below: Higher numbers on this list often reflect better reporting and data, it does not necessarily indicate (nor imply) a larger epidemic. Reporting of HIV cases and deaths are quite often delayed by years, data here can mask HIV epidemics.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1464435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1464435", "title": "List of disasters in Australia by death toll", "text": "List of disasters in Australia by death toll\n\nThis is a list of disasters and tragic events in modern Australia sorted by death toll.\n\nExcludes deaths attributable to war.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "236346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=236346", "title": "List of diseases (K)", "text": "List of diseases (K)\n\nThis is a list of diseases starting with the letter \"K\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11277938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11277938", "title": "List of political parties in Australia and New Zealand by country", "text": "List of political parties in Australia and New Zealand by country\n"}
{"id": "9258044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9258044", "title": "MEDCIN", "text": "MEDCIN\n\nMEDCIN, a system of standardized medical terminology, is a proprietary medical vocabulary and was developed by Medicomp Systems, Inc. MEDCIN is a point-of-care terminology, intended for use in Electronic Health Record (EHR) systems, and it includes over 280,000 clinical data elements encompassing symptoms, history, physical examination, tests, diagnoses and therapy. This clinical vocabulary contains over 38 years of research and development as well as the capability to cross map to leading codification systems such as SNOMED CT, CPT, ICD-9-CM/ICD-10-CM, DSM, LOINC, CDT, CVX, and the Clinical Care Classification (CCC) System for nursing and allied health.\n\nThe MEDCIN coding system is marketed for point-of-care documentation. Several Electronic Health Record (EHR) systems embed MEDCIN, which allows them to produce structured and numerically codified patient charts. Such structuring enables the aggregation, analysis, and mining of clinical and practice management data related to a disease, a patient or a population.\n\nMEDCIN was initially developed by Peter S. Goltra, founder of Medicomp Systems “as an intelligent clinical database for documentation at the time of care.\" \nThe first few years of the development were spent in designing the structure of a knowledge engine that would enable the population of relationships between clinical events.\nSince 1978, the MEDCIN database engine has been continuously refined and expanded to include concepts from clinical histories, test, physical examination, therapies and diagnoses to enable coding of complete patient encounters with the collaboration of physicians and teaching institutions such as Cornell, Harvard, and Johns Hopkins.\n\nMEDCIN data elements are organized in multiple clinical hierarchies, where users can easily navigate to a medical term by following down the tree of clinical propositions. The clinical propositions define unique intellectual clinical content. An example of such similar propositions include \"wheezing which is worse during cold weather\" and \"wheezing which is worse with a cold\" differ in meaning significantly to clinicians and therefore it enables the software to present relevant items to clinical users.\n\nThis hierarchy provides an inheritance of clinical properties between data elements, which greatly enhances the capabilities of EHR systems and as well providing logical presentation structures for the clinical users. The linkage of MEDCIN data elements through the use of describing many diagnoses in the diagnostic index creates multiple hierarchies. The MEDCIN engine uses Intelligent Prompting and navigation tools to enable clinicians to select specific clinical terms that they need rather than having to create new terms for rapid documentation. \n\nMEDCIN has been designed to work as an interface terminology to include components to make EHRs more usable when it is used in conjunction with proprietary physician and nursing documentation tools. According to Rosenbloom et al. (2006), investigators such as Chute et al., McDonald et al., Rose et al. and Campbell et al. have defined clinical interface terminologies as “a systematic collection of health care-related phrases (term)” (p. 277) that supports the capturing of patient-related clinical information entered by clinicians into software programs such as clinical note capture and decision support tools.\n\nFor an interface terminology to be clinical usable, it has to be able to describe any clinical presentation with speed, ease of use, and accuracy for clinicians to accomplish the intended tasks (e.g. documenting patient care) when using the medical terminology. In addition, the terms in medical terminology must have medical relationships. MEDCIN’s presentation engine, accomplishes this usability criteria by using the Intelligent Prompting capabilities to present a relevant list of MEDCIN clinical terms for rapid clinical documentations. Another usability feature that the MEDCIN presentation engine provides is the medical relationships of clinical terms through multiple clinical hierarchies for each MEDCIN term.\n\nIn August 2012, Medicomp Systems released an updated version of the software embedded with ICD-10-CM (International Classification of Diseases, 10th Revision, Clinical Modification) mappings and functionality to comply with the transition from ICD-9-CM to ICD-10-CM as mandated by the US Department of Health and Human Services. This new version is specially designed to make the ICD-10 more usable in the EHR systems by providing clinicians easier access to bi-directional mappings, accurate data and codes through their EHR products. The ICD-10 is published by the World Health Organization (WHO) to enable the systematic collection of morbidity and mortality data from different countries for statistical analysis.\n\nMEDCIN terminology engine can be easily integrated into existing EHRs and legacy systems to enable mapping of existing terminologies and other coding systems such as ICD, DSM, CPT, LOINC, SNOMED CT and the Clinical Care Classification (CCC) System to generate seamless codified data at point of care. MEDCIN’s interoperability features enable easy access and sharing of patient data between health care facilities.\n\nMEDCIN has been implemented into several commercial EHR systems as an interface terminology to support integrated care, clinical documentation, health maintenance monitoring and disease management, and the care planning functions of physicians, nurses and allied health professionals.\nSuch commercial EHR systems include EHRs from EPIC, Allscripts, Pulse, Mckesson, and the United States Department of Defence’s (DoD) EHR system, the Armed Forces Health Longitudinal Technology Application (AHLTA).\nAHLTA is an EHR system developed for the US Department of Defense. This application uses the Medicomp’s MEDCIN terminology engine for clinical documentation purposes. Figure 1, shows an example of the MEDCIN terminology where the physician can search for the correct terms for input into the patient note.\n\nThe Nursing Plan of Care (POC) was developed by Medicomp Systems, for the Clinical Care Classification (CCC) System. The CCC System is a standardized, coded nursing terminology that provides a unique framework and coding structure for accessing, classifying and documenting patient care by nurses and other allied health professionals. The CCC is directly linked in the MEDCIN nursing POC to medical terminology with the purpose of creating patient plan of care by extracting a pool of documentation from the EHR history. The CCC nursing terminology is integrated into the MEDCIN clinical database through a contextual hierarchical tree, providing an array of terminology standards and concepts with Intelligent Prompting capabilities of the MEDCIN engine.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53249186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53249186", "title": "MSR - The Israel Center for Medical Simulation", "text": "MSR - The Israel Center for Medical Simulation\n\nMSR - The Israel Center for Medical Simulation (Hebrew: מסר - המרכז הארצי לסימולציה רפואית) is Israel's national institute for Simulation-Based Medical Education (SBME) and Patient Safety training. It is located at the Chaim Sheba Medical Center in the Tel HaShomer neighborhood of Ramat Gan, in the Tel Aviv District. MSR is internationally recognized as leader in patient safety simulation-based training.\n\nThe Israel Center for Medical Simulation (MSR) was established at the Chaim Sheba Medical Center in 2001. The Center’s purpose is to lead a nationwide effort to introduce new standards and innovative approaches to health care training and patient safety education for the benefit of the people of Israel. Reports on patient safety have indicated that health care is far less safe than it should be, and that medical errors are the third cause of death in the US after heart disease and cancer. Simulation based medical education has been recognized as a powerful tool in addressing patient safety and quality-care training.\n\nMSR is under the direction of Prof. Amitai Ziv, MD, MHA. He is a veteran combat pilot and flight instructor in the Israeli Air Force where he was first exposed to simulation-based training. Prof. Ziv has testified before the U.S. Congress on MSR’s medical emergency preparedness programs. He has briefed the Federal Department of Health and Human Services, Office of Homeland Security, the Greater New York Hospital Association, the Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations, and has presented at major medical centers including the Mayo Clinic, Harvard University, McGill University, New York Presbyterian Hospital and Cleveland Clinic/Case Western Reserve.\n\nThe 2400-square-meter center is designed as a virtual healthcare environment and encompasses the whole spectrum of medical simulation modalities. These include simulated patients (role-playing actors for communication and clinical skills' training), advanced task trainers (for training of complex manual skills), virtual reality surgical simulators and computer-driven, full-body mannequins, that enable team training for challenging and high-risk clinical conditions. State-of-the-art audiovisual equipment and one-way mirror observation booths ensure effective debriefing and constructive feedback to trainees. \n\nStaffed with a multidisciplinary team of 40, MSR has trained over 200,000 trainees and over 4500 instructors and raters of various health professions in a variety of courses and exams. These courses have been carried out in collaboration with major medical institutions, including Health Professional Schools, The Israel Ministry of Health, Israeli Defense Forces Medical Corps, Emergency Medical Services, Medical Associations, HMO’s, Major Hospitals, risk Management bodies and medical simulation, medical equipment and Pharmaceutical Industries.\n\nThe Simulated Patient Unit trains medical professionals in communication skills essential for their practices, to help them achieve effective and compassionate interactions with their patients.\nThe unit develops and conducts a wide range of training activities and scenarios to improve and promote human skills in general, and clinical communication skills in particular.\nMSR engages some 150 role-playing actors of various ages, from adolescents to the elderly. The actors are specially trained to represent a variety of characters found in different encounters with medical caregivers: patients, family members, team members or other colleagues.\nThe role-playing actors participate in a variety of simulations, each of which is a platform for learning, practicing and improving communication and clinical skills. These include delivering bad news, obtaining informed consent, coping with refusal of treatment, apologizing for a mistake, and practicing of neurological tests on a patient, among many others.\nAfter participating in a simulation scenario, the trainees receive feedback from the actors, their colleagues and MSR staff, based on direct observations and video recordings.\n\nThe advanced training wing is equipped with High Tech Patient Simulators that provide practice opportunities in a simulated, controlled medical environment.\nThe spectrum of medical simulation equipment used at MSR include:\n\nEstablished in 2013, \"MSR on Wheels\" is a mobile unit able to provide simulation-based medical training to medical teams on=site, throughout Israel. \"MSR on Wheels\" makes MSR’s services and experience training clinical and communication skills and patient safety accessible to as broad a population as possible.\n\nMSR specializes in developing simulation-based tests that expose an examinee's performance and ability to function and provide or oversee treatment in \"real-life\" situations. MSR also specializes in developing oral exams and training healthcare professionals to evaluate examinees in oral exams. MSR’s partnership with the \"National Institute for Testing and Evaluation (NITE)\" enables professional consulting, analysis and research in simulation-based exams.\n\nMSR partners with the NITE in the following:\n\n\nIn collaboration with the National Institute for Testing and Evaluation (NITE), MSR provides simulation-based humanistic screening of medical school candidates.\n\nAmong the simulation centers that MSR has helped in their establishment and/or collaborated with on establishing simulation-based curriculum:\n"}
{"id": "52763276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52763276", "title": "Maggot farming", "text": "Maggot farming\n\nMaggot farming is the act of growing maggots for the industry. It is distinct from vermicomposting as there is no separate composting process going on, and maggots are used which are distinct from earthworms (they also consume only flesh, not plant-based material).\n\nA variety of species can be used, including the black soldier fly, as well as various other fly species. Due to convenience, fly species are often used which are indigenous to the area of cultivation.\n\nWhen using indigenous fly species, one tactic (employed by the Songhai Center in Benin) is to simply dump offal or meat that has exceeded the sell-by date in concrete bins. The bins are then covered with chicken wire to prevent any large animals of being able to feed off it. Then, flies deposit eggs on the offal and meat, and maggots hatch and consume it. After that, the bins are filled with water, so the maggots start to float (separating themselves from any leftovers). The maggots are then harvested and the leftover is discarded or further processed (e.g., bones can be ground to bone meal, ...).\n\nThe maggots are often sold and used as animal feed. Especially fish, chickens, pig, ducks appreciate them. It can also be sold as fishing bait.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18071177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18071177", "title": "Mahak", "text": "Mahak\n\nThe Mahak Society to Support Children with Cancer is a non-governmental organisation in Tehran dedicated to helping Iranian children with cancer. It runs an 18000 sq m hospital in the north of Tehran.\nThe organisation was founded in 1991 by Saideh Ghods. She had experienced having a child with cancer and had witnessed first hand the difficulties faced by her child, and pledged that she would set up a center that would act as a sanctuary for children and their families in a similar situation. With the assistance of the same friends and relatives who had helped her through her own ordeal, a board of governors was selected and the “MAHAK Society to Support Children with Cancer” was set up as a non profit, non-governmental organization. MAHAK has been active from that day in helping children with cancer and their families and has grown beyond anyone’s expectations. MAHAK is funded entirely by donations and has supported 11,505 children over the past 17 years.\n\n In 2003, MAHAK’s Hospital and Rehabilitation center in Darabad was completed. The center is situated in Tehran’s north eastern hills and comprises an 18000 square meters building equipped to accommodate up to 120 children, each accompanied by a member of their family. The center houses diagnostic and treatment wards of the highest standards, on a par with those seen anywhere else.\nWithin the center, there are other facilities offered such as a clinic, a chemotherapy laboratory, radiotherapy section, physiotherapy ward, water therapy section, operation rooms, MRI and CT Scan, Radiology, ICU, library, children's playroom, restaurant, amphitheater and a shopping center.\n\nThe wards were equipped and began operation in August 2003, when the first patient was admitted.\nThe two rehabilitation wards are fully functional and are laid out over two floors, with 15 rooms on the first floor for children accompanied by a female member of their immediate family and with another 15 on the second floor for those children who need to be accompanied by a male family member. There is also a playroom provided for the children, a sitting area for the families and a kitchenette.\nCurrently, these wards are run by 14 nursing graduates in three shifts around the clock. Two social workers offer their services in two shifts of morning and afternoon and two psychiatrists are available in the afternoon shifts. In the afternoons a number of volunteers visit the ward to play with the children.\nThe Society’s team of social workers is fully active in children’s oncology wards in nine hospitals throughout Tehran, where they provide children and their parents with medical treatment and support. \nMAHAK pays all related expenses including X-rays, test, chemotherapy, radiation therapy, food, clothing and all accommodation during their treatment. Since 60% of the children come to Tehran from the provinces, the Social Work Department arranges for their transfer by ambulance or plane.\nMAHAK has been officially recognized by UNHCR as the organization which helps refugee children (Afghan and Iraqi) with cancer both in and out of refugee camps.\n\nIn 2007, the organisation was presented with the Swiss SGS NGO Benchmarking award for the best and most transparent NGO in the Middle East.\n\nSaideh Ghods received the 2008 IDB prize from the Islamic Development Bank for her work with Mahak\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6607898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6607898", "title": "Masao Maruyama (scholar)", "text": "Masao Maruyama (scholar)\n\nMaruyama Masao was born in Osaka in 1914. He was the second son of journalist Maruyama Kanji. He was influenced by friends of his father such as Hasegawa Nyozekan, a circle of people identified with the liberal current of political thought during the period of Taishō democracy. After graduating from Tokyo Furitsu Number One Middle School (currently known as Tokyo Municipal Hibiya High School), he entered the Tokyo Imperial University and graduated from the Department of Law in 1937. His thesis \"The Concept of the Nation-state in Political Science\" earned a Distinguished Thesis Award, and Maruyama was appointed assistant in the same department.\n\nOriginally he had wanted to specialize in European political thought, but changed his focus to concentrate on Japanese political thought, a subject that until that time, mainly centered around the concept of an imperial state, and was influenced by a foundational ordinance that required subjects to be taught 'in accordance with the needs of the state'. Maruyama brought to the discipline a theoretical perspective grounded in extensive comparativism. The person who originally recommended this path to him was his mentor, Professor Nambara Shigeru, who was highly critical of military and bureaucratic obstructions to the growth of a constitutionally defined 'national community'. An expert in European political thought, Nambara steered the young Maruyama into working on this topics.\n\nIn March 1945, Maruyama was drafted and stationed in the Army at Hiroshima. After experiencing the blast at Hiroshima and seeing out the end of the war there, he returned to his post at the university in September. He caught tuberculosis at the time, and after an operation, spent the rest of his life on one lung.\n\nImmediately following the war he published \"The Logic and Psychology of Ultranationalism\" and other theses dealing with prewar militarism and fascism which left a strong impact on postwar Japan. He was famous for calling the prewar imperial system a \"system of irresponsibility\". He was also a powerful democratic opinion leader, going far beyond the academic world and wielding great influence regarding the Treaty of San Francisco and the student movements of 1960.\n\nHowever, in the late 1960s he was strongly denounced by the students front as a symbol of self-deceiving postwar democracy. He criticized this student movement, especially when his research room at University of Tokyo was ransacked by occupying students in 1969, an episode he characterised as an act of \"barbarism not even Nazis did\". This, combined with his own ailing health, forced him to retire in 1971. He was however appointed professor emeritus at the same university in 1974.\n\nThough Maruyama suffered from poor health especially in his later life, he continued studying and writing until he died in Tokyo on 15 August 1996. The major work of his retirement years was a three-volume commentary on Fukuzawa Yukichi's Fukuzawa's principal work \"Bunmeiron no Gairyaku\", based on a lengthy seminar he conducted with a small working group. This was published in 1986, as \"Reading 'An Outline of a Theory of Civilisation',\"(「文明論之概略」を読む) by Iwanami Shoten. Besides, he contributed several more noteworthy as well as controversial works on Japanese culture or the process of translation in modern Japan. Most noteworthy is his concept of basso ostinato. Maruyama referred to this musicological concept to capture a socio-historically substratum underlying human thought. Although basso ostinato is in constant flux, it is experienced by people as a relatively stable intellectual framework through which people give meaning to life.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3557044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3557044", "title": "Medical education in the United States", "text": "Medical education in the United States\n\nMedical education in the United States includes educational activities involved in the education and training of physicians in the United States, from entry-level training through to continuing education of qualified specialists. \n\nA typical outline of the medical education pathway is presented below; however, medicine is a diverse profession with many options available. For example, some physicians work in pharmaceutical research, occupational medicine (within a company), public health medicine (working for the general health of a population in an area), or join the armed forces.\n\nIn the United States a medical school is an institution with the purpose of educating physicians in the United States in the field of medicine. Admission into medical school may not technically require completion of a previous degree; however, applicants are usually required to complete at least 3 years of \"pre-med\" courses at the university level because in the US medical degrees are classified as Second entry degrees. Once enrolled in a medical school the four years progressive study is divided into two roughly equal components: pre-clinical (consisting of didactic courses in the basic sciences) and clinical (clerkships consisting of rotations through different wards of a teaching hospital). The degree granted at the conclusion of these four years of study is Doctor of Medicine (M.D.) or, less commonly, Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine (D.O.) depending on the medical school; both degrees allow the holder to practice medicine after completing an accredited residency program. \nDuring the last year of graduate medical education, students apply for postgraduate \"residencies\" in their chosen field of specialization. These vary in competitiveness depending upon the desirability of the specialty, prestige of the program, and the number of applicants relative to the number of available positions. All but a few positions are granted via a national computer match which pairs an applicant's preference with the programs' preference for applicants. \n\nHistorically, post-graduate medical education began with a free-standing, one-year internship. Completion of this year continues to be the minimum training requirement for obtaining a general license to practice medicine in most states. However, because of the gradual lengthening of post-graduate medical education, and the decline of its use as the terminal stage in training, most new physicians complete the internship requirement as their first year of residency.\n\nNot withstanding the trend toward internships integrated into categorical residencies, the one-year \"traditional rotating internship\" (sometimes called a \"transitional year\") continues to exist. Some residency training programs, such as in neurology and ophthalmology, do not include an internship year and begin after completion of an internship or transitional year. Some use it to re-apply to programs into which they were not accepted, while others use it as a year to decide upon a specialty. In addition, osteopathic physicians \"are required to have completed an American Osteopathic Association (AOA)-approved first year of training in order to be licensed in Florida, Michigan, Oklahoma and Pennsylvania.\"\n\nEach of the specialties in medicine has established its own curriculum, which defines the length and content of residency training necessary to practice in that specialty. Programs range from 3 years after medical school for internal medicine and pediatrics, to 5 years for general surgery, to 7 years for neurosurgery. Each specialty training program either incorporates an internship year to satisfy the requirements of state licensure, or stipulates that an internship year be completed \"before\" starting the program at the second post-graduate year (PGY-2).\n\nA fellowship is a formal, full-time training program that focuses on a particular area within the specialty, with requirements beyond the related residency. Many highly specialized fields require formal training beyond residency. Examples of these include cardiology, endocrinology, oncology after internal medicine; cardiothoracic anesthesiology after anesthesiology; cardiothoracic surgery, pediatric surgery, surgical oncology after general surgery; reproductive endocrinology/infertility, maternal-fetal medicine, gynecologic oncology after obstetrics/gynecology. There are many others for each field of study. In some specialties such as pathology and radiology, a majority of graduating residents go on to further their training. The training programs for these fields are known as \"fellowships\" and their participants are \"fellows\", to denote that they already have completed a residency and are board eligible or board certified in their basic specialty. Fellowships range in length from one to three years and are granted by application to the individual program or sub-specialty organizing board. Fellowships often contain a research component.\n\nThe physician or surgeon who has completed his or her residency and possibly fellowship training and is in the practice of his or her specialty is known as an attending physician. Physicians then must pass written and oral exams in their specialty in order to become board certified. Each of the 26 medical specialties has different requirements for practitioners to undertake continuing medical education activities.\n\n"}
{"id": "437868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=437868", "title": "Minority group", "text": "Minority group\n\nA minority group refers to a category of people who experience relative disadvantage as compared to members of a dominant social group. Minority group membership is typically based on differences in observable characteristics or practices, such as: sex, ethnicity, race, religion, disability, sexual orientation, or gender identity. Utilizing the framework of intersectionality, it is important to recognize that an individual may simultaneously hold membership in multiple minority groups (e.g. both a racial and religious minority). Likewise, individuals may also be part of a minority group in regard to some characteristics, but part of a dominant group in regard to others.\n\nThe term \"minority group\" often occurs within the discourse of civil rights and collective rights, as members of minority groups are prone to differential treatment in the countries and societies in which they live. Minority group members often face discrimination in multiple areas of social life, including housing, employment, healthcare, and education, among others. While discrimination may be committed by individuals, it may also occur through structural inequalities, in which rights and opportunities are not equally accessible to all. The language of minority rights, is often used to discuss laws designed to protect minority groups from discrimination and afford them equal social status to the dominant group.\n\nLouis Wirth defined a minority group as \"a group of people who, because of their physical or cultural characteristics, are singled out from the others in the society in which they live for differential and unequal treatment, and who therefore regard themselves as objects of collective discrimination\". The definition includes both objective and subjective criteria: membership of a minority group is objectively ascribed by society, based on an individual's physical or behavioral characteristics; it is also subjectively applied by its members, who may use their status as the basis of group identity or solidarity. Thus, minority group status is categorical in nature: an individual who exhibits the physical or behavioral characteristics of a given minority group is accorded the status of that group and is subject to the same treatment as other members of that group.\n\nJoe Feagin, states that a minority group has five characteristics: (1) suffering discrimination and subordination, (2) physical and/or cultural traits that set them apart, and which are disapproved by the dominant group, (3) a shared sense of collective identity and common burdens, (4) socially shared rules about who belongs and who does not determine minority status, and (5) tendency to marry within the group.\n\nThere is a controversy with the use of the word minority, as it has a common and an academic usage. Common usage of the term indicates a statistical minority; however, academics refer to power differences among groups rather than differences in population size among groups.\n\nSome sociologists have criticised the concept of \"minority/majority\", arguing this language excludes or neglects changing or unstable cultural identities, as well as cultural affiliations across national boundaries. As such, the term historically excluded groups (HEGs) is often similarly used to highlight the role of historical oppression and domination, and how this results in the underrepresentation of particular groups in various areas of social life.\n\nThe term national minority is often used to discuss minority groups in international and national politics. All countries contain some degree of racial, ethnic, or linguistic diversity. In addition, minorities may also be minorities they may be migrant, indigenous or landless nomadic communities. This often results in variations in language, culture, beliefs, practices, that set some groups apart from the dominant grop. As these differences are usually perceived negatively by, this results in loss of social and political power for members of minority groups.\n\nThere is no legal definition of national minorities in international law, though protection of minority groups is outlined by the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Persons Belonging to National or Ethnic, Religious and Linguistic Minorities. International criminal law can protect the rights of racial or ethnic minorities in a number of ways. The right to self-determination is a key issue.\n\nThe formal level of protection of national minorities is highest in European countries. The Council of Europe proposes a definition of national minorities in the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages and by the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities; however these definitions are not binding upon member states. Using this framework, a national minority can be theoretically defined as a group of people within a given nation state:\n\n\nIn some places, subordinate ethnic groups may constitute a numerical majority, such as Blacks in South Africa under apartheid. In the United States, for example, non-Hispanic Whites constitute the majority (63.4%) and all other racial and ethnic groups (Hispanic or Latino, African Americans, Asian Americans, American Indian, and Native Hawaiians) are classified as \"minorities\". If the non-Hispanic White population falls below 50% the group will only be the \"plurality\", not the majority.\n\nThe elderly, while traditionally influential or even (in a gerontocracy) dominant in the past, are now usually reduced to the minority role of economically 'non-active' groups. Children can also be understood as a minority group in these terms, and the discrimination faced by the young is known as adultism. Discrimination against the elderly is known as ageism.\n\nVarious local and international statutes are in place to mitigate the exploitation of children, such as the Convention on the Rights of the Child, as well as a number of organizations that make up the children's rights movement. The youth rights movement campaigns for social empowerment for young people, and against the legal and social restrictions placed on legal minors. Groups that advocate the interests of senior citizens range from the charitable (Help the Aged) to grass-roots activism (Gray Panthers), and often overlap with disability rights issues.\n\nAlso known as \"castelike minorities,\" involuntary minorities are a term for people who were originally brought into any society against their will. In the United States, for instance, it includes but is not limited to Native Americans, Puerto Ricans, African Americans, and native-born Mexican Americans. For reasons of cultural differences, involuntary minorities may experience difficulties in school more than members of other (voluntary) minority groups. Social capital helps children engage with different age groups that share a common goal.\n\nImmigrants take on minority status in their new country, usually in hopes of a better future economically, educationally, and politically than in their homeland. Because of their focus on success, voluntary minorities are more likely to do better in school than other migrating minorities. Adapting to a very different culture and language make difficulties in the early stages of life in the new country. Voluntary immigrants do not experience a sense of divided identity as much as involuntary minorities, and are often rich in social capital because of their educational ambitions. Major immigrant groups in the United States include Mexicans, Central and South Americans, Cubans, Africans, and Indians.\n\nThe term sexual minority is frequently used by public health researchers to recognize a wide variety of individuals who engage in same-sex sexual behavior, including those who do not identify under the LGBTQ umbrella. For example, men who have sex with men (MSM), but do not identify as gay. In addition, the term gender minorities can include many types of gender variant people, such as intersex people, transgender people, or gender non-conforming individuals. However, the terms sexual and gender minority are often not preferred by LGBTQ people, as they represent clinical categories rather than individual identity.\n\nThough lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer (LGBTQ) people have existed throughout human history, LGBT rights movements across many western countries led to the recognition of LGBTQ people as members of a minority group. LGBTQ people represent a numerical and social minority. They experience numerous social inequalities stemming from their group membership as LGBTQ people. These inequalities include social discrimination and isolation, unequal access to healthcare, employment, and housing, and experience negative mental and physical health outcomes due to these experiences.\n\nThe disability rights movement has contributed to an understanding of people with disabilities (including not to be called 'disabled') as a minority or a coalition of minorities who are disadvantaged by society, not just as people who are disadvantaged by their impairments. Advocates of disability rights emphasize difference in physical or psychological functioning, rather than inferiority. For example, some people with autism argue for acceptance of neurodiversity, much as opponents of racism argue for acceptance of ethnic diversity. The deaf community is often regarded as a linguistic and cultural minority rather than a group with disabilities, and some deaf people do not see themselves as having a disability at all. Rather, they are disadvantaged by technologies and social institutions that are designed to cater for the dominant group. (\"See the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities\".)\n\nOne of the most controversial minorities in the United States and other countries has been communists. Along with the Red Scare and execution of Julius and Ethel Rosenberg, the United States ran open campaigns to fight, contain and promote fear of communism in the country. Some were persecuted as communist even when they were not actually so: for example, many activists for civil rights were portrayed as inspired by a communist agenda. Communists in the United States, as in many European countries, are often afraid to proclaim their politics, fearing abuse and discrimination from the political majority.\n\nPeople belonging to religious minorities have a faith which is different from that held by the majority. Most countries of the world have religious minorities. It is now widely accepted in the west that people should have the freedom to choose their own religion, including not having any religion (atheism and/or agnosticism), and including the right to convert from one religion to another. However, in many countries this freedom is constricted. For example, in Egypt, a new system of identity cards requires all citizens to state their religion—and the only choices are Islam, Christianity, or Judaism (See Egyptian identification card controversy).\n\nAuthors have pointed out that many coal workers would be unwilling to move for work or were not likely to be able to be retrained as Appalachians are an \"ethnic minority\".\n\nWhile in most societies, numbers of men and women are roughly equal, the status of women as a subordinate group has led to many social scientists to study them as a minority group. Though women's legal rights and status vary widely across countries, women experience social inequalities relative to men in most societies. Women are often denied access to education, subject to violence, and lack access to the same economic opportunities as men.\n\nIn the politics of some countries, a \"minority\" is an ethnic group recognized by law, and having specified rights. Speakers of a legally recognized minority language, for instance, might have the right to education or communication with the government in their mother tongue. Countries with special provisions for minorities include Canada, China, Ethiopia, Germany, India, the Netherlands, Poland, Romania, Russia, Croatia, and the United Kingdom.\n\nThe various minority groups in a country are often not given equal treatment. Some groups are too small or indistinct to obtain minority protections. For example, a member of a particularly small ethnic group might be forced to check \"Other\" on a checklist of different backgrounds and so might receive fewer privileges than a member of a more defined group.\n\nMany contemporary governments prefer to assume the people they rule all belong to the same nationality rather than separate ones based on ethnicity. The United States asks for race and ethnicity on its official census forms, which thus breaks up and organizes its population into sub-groups, primarily racial rather than national. Spain does not divide its nationals by ethnic group, although it does maintain an official notion of minority languages.\n\nSome especially significant or powerful minorities receive comprehensive protection and political representation. For example, the former Yugoslav republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina recognizes the three constitutive nations, none of which constitutes a numerical majority (see nations of Bosnia and Herzegovina). However, other minorities such as Romani and Jews, are officially labelled \"foreign\" and are excluded from many of these protections. For example, they may be excluded from political positions, including the presidency.\n\nThere is debate over recognizing minority groups and their privileges. One view is that the application of special rights to minority groups may harm some countries, such as new states in Africa or Latin America not founded on the European nation-state model, since minority recognition may interfere with establishing a national identity. It may hamper the integration of the minority into mainstream society, perhaps leading to separatism or supremacism. In Canada, some feel that the failure of the dominant English-speaking majority to integrate French Canadians has provoked Quebec separatism.\n\nOthers assert that minorities require specific protections to ensure that they are not marginalised: for example, bilingual education may be needed to allow linguistic minorities to fully integrate into the school system and compete equally in society. In this view, rights for minorities strengthen the nation-building project, as members of minorities see their interests well served, and willingly accept the legitimacy of the nation and their integration (not assimilation) within it.\n\n"}
{"id": "35904734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35904734", "title": "Mobile hospital", "text": "Mobile hospital\n\nA mobile hospital is a medical center or a small hospital with full medical equipment that can be moved and settled in a new place and situation swiftly. So it can provide medical services to patients or wounded persons in critical conditions such as war or natural disasters.\n\nIn fact, a mobile hospital is a modular unit that every part of it is on the wheel, so it can be moved to another place easily, although all the required space and necessary equipment are considered so it can be utilized in the minimum time.\n\nWith mobile hospital, one can provide medical services to wounded soldiers or patients near the war zone or any other place before moving them to the permanent hospital.\nIn the mobile hospital, depending on the patient's situation and definitive treatment, admitted to the hospital and after evaluating the condition sent to another health center.\n\nDuring hundreds of years, the armies need to save soldiers’ lives and rescue wounded has led to the development of military medicine\n\nIn fact, war always directly or indirectly has caused development in medical Science. In this case, mobile hospitals and field hospitals are developed to help them to present fast and desirable services in the battlefields.\n\nNowadays mobile hospital serves as a more comprehensive and wider type of the Mash, and more modern and up-to-date than the field Hospital to save human being's life and improve medical processes in natural disasters and war.\n\nSince mobile hospital provides most of the medical equipment and required medical areas on the wheels through the roads, it needs a special platform.\n\nBase platform of a mobile hospital can be a rear box of a truck or the box of a semi-trailer.\n\nSince mobile hospitals have similar therapeutic protocols with permanent hospitals, the rules and Criteria are the same too. Therefore, mobile hospital platform must be so flexible and efficient to design a health center similar to a permanent one.\n\nRegarding Variety of medical services or capacity of hospitalization part, mobile hospital and field hospitals are similar to each other\n\nIn particular, a mobile hospital is bigger than first aid units and smaller than a permanent hospital. Also, the mobile hospital can be connected to another field hospital, for increasing ward sections capacity every time everywhere.\n\nAccording to the international laws of human rights, including Geneva Convention based on the ban on strike to doctors, ambulance, and hospitals which Marked with Red Cross or Red Crescent sign, Mobile hospitals will have Immunity on any strike too.\n\nThe primary platform of the mobile hospitals is on semi-trailers, trucks, buses or ambulances which all of them can move on the roads.\nHowever, the main structure of a field hospital is tent and container. Tents and all necessary medical equipment will be placed in containers and finally transport via airplane, train, ship, truck or trailer.\n\nTherefore, the mobile hospital is a movable unit itself, but a field hospital is a transportable unit.\n\nThe body materials of the mobile hospital are thermal insulation layer with a sheet of steel or fiberglass, but the tent of the field hospital is a fabric and tarpaulin.\n\nHygienic Decontamination and compliance with health protocols in mobile hospitals better than field hospitals can be observed and also heat and cooling systems will be more efficient than field hospital.\n\nIn advanced mobile hospitals, special trailers with more efficient medical space are used, so some of these special trailers are expendable.\n\nExpandable trailers are similar to other standard semi-trailers while they are moving on the roads but as they stop or during the use, the semi-trailer (or truck) boxes will expand. For example, the total area of a semi-trailer with four expandable boxes can reach over 80 square meters if a standard size of a trailer is only 35 in usual.\n\nStructure of different parts of the mobile hospital can be different According to its purpose.\n\nGenerally, several types of platforms are used in the construction of mobile hospitals; therefore different parts of mobile hospital, from the viewpoint of platform framework, can be placed in three following categories:\n\n\nIn the mobile hospital, connectable halls or corridors can be standard size trailers or a normal container. These trailers have several doors to connect to other units or corridors via a special connector.\n\nThe special connector can be a tent, inflatable structure, or open gangway connection.\n\nFor efficient use of space; technical rooms, receptionist desk, cabinets, and closets can be installed.\n\nEach hospital, apart from the medical departments, needs electrical and mechanical facilities, repair and maintenance units, safety and health section, administrative offices, communication servicing, equipment management, toilets, bathrooms, laundries, kitchens, food supply and distribution, staff and doctors dormitories, production, and distribution. Electrical energy, water purification and storage units, warehouses, merge command rooms, and other services\n\nThis equipment or spaces mostly takes place in a standard truck rear boxes or semi-trailers regular size boxes.\n\nMost Medical sections of mobile hospital are placed on special trailers Medical special trailers are semi-trailer boxes with expanding ability.\n\nThe mobile hospital includes different sections of a permanent hospital. So all or some of the following departments can be a part of a mobile hospital.\nThe parts mentioned below may not be an essential part in mobile hospital, but due to the event, time and place some of these sections can be added to mobile hospital:\n\n\nTo discuss the history of the mobile hospital, we must first take a look at the history of Mash and field hospital; since the mobile hospital is the advanced and generalized form of Mash and more efficient and operational form of the field hospital.\n\nThe surgical, evacuation or field hospitals would remain many miles in the rear, and the divisional clearing stations were never intended to provide emergency life-saving surgery. With the Army’s larger medical units unable to assume their traditional role in support of the front line combat units, the chain of evacuation was interrupted at a critical point. Some interim solution had to be found quickly to provide the necessary surgical services and care to the severely wounded directly behind the front lines. Otherwise, many wounded soldiers would die from either the lack of life-saving surgery at the front or from the long and arduous evacuation trek along jungle trails from the frontal clearing stations to the nearest surgical unit, Manned with skilled surgeons and located close to the fighting to render quick, life-saving surgical intervention, the portable hospital could be moved by its own personnel to remain with the infantrymen during fluid operations.\n\nThe concept of Mobile Army Surgical Hospital or MASH was invented by United States army. It is by definition a fully functional hospital used on the battlefield. It first came into being in August 1945; later it was used in the Korean War and many following conflicts.\n\nThe idea of a mobile medical unit originated from the dental field by Major Vincent P. Marran, a medic during WWII. His achievements were highly appreciated, but it was never formally labeled. Also, Harry A. Ferguson, the executive officer of the Tokyo Army Hospital, had a big part in the development of MASH.\n\nKorean War had a big part in defining of MASH since the rising number of battle-injured demanded a more efficient medical care than traditional army doctors or transportation to a permanent hospital. MASH was that solution. It was established near front not only to supply more flexible military medical care and offer better care but also to serve as other purposes such as blood storage and distribution.\n\nA MASH unit was supposed to provide mostly surgical services for injured on the battlefield, but this definition was abandoned under the pressure of war-time needs. Early plans were a truck-based, portable, 60-bed facility deployed deep into the battlefield just out of enemy artillery range; to provide primary care for injured until they can be transported to back line to a permanent hospital.\n\nIn Korean War, without a proper means of transportation, as a result of the expansion of required services of MASHs without a possibility of more personnel, rapid evacuation of patients were essentialized. There are some reports of Korean War that in some cases, a MASH hospital took care of a number of patients two times its capacity, each day. In late 1951, MASHs were being deployed much closer to battles, usually in 30 kilometers of front line. Still, in relative safety, MASHs were able to operate more efficiently with wounded receiving medical care sooner than ever.\n\nAccording to military standards, acceptable time for assembly of a MASH unit from arrival to becoming operational is 4 hours. For disassembly, getting loaded into vehicles and ready to depart, this time is 6 hours.\n\nEarly MASHs could perform five surgeries a shift and had an efficient system to prioritize wounded. Each MASH unit was accompanied by a platoon of ambulances to ease the quick evacuation of treated patients and a group of helicopters to resupply the unit and speed up patient delivery to it as air ambulances.\n\nThis system turned out to be super effective. The fatality rate for US army wounded dropped from 4.5 percent in WWII to only 2.5 percent in Korea.\n\nMASH proved its worth in Korea and became a key part of armies afterward. Technological and medical progress have helped MASH to save many lives not only in battlefields but also during unpredicted incidents and less developed regions.\n\n\nTo solve the mentioned issues and by combining the idea of the field hospital and platforms and structures of MASH, the mobile hospital was born.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43789997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43789997", "title": "Operación Milagro", "text": "Operación Milagro\n\nOperación Milagro (English: \"Operation Miracle\"; also \"Acción Milagro\") is a program of international solidarity launched in 2004 by the governments of Cuba and Venezuela to provide free medical treatment for people with eye problems in the two countries and 34 others in the Global South. It is integrated into the programs of the ALBA.\n\nWhile in the initial stage of the program patients were transported to Cuba to be attended there, now there are 49 ophthalmological centers in 13 Latin American and Caribbean countries carrying out vision-saving and restoring surgery. The Cuban government has also sent physicians to Pakistan, Indonesia and Angola. In its first ten years, the program has benefitted more than three million people.\n"}
{"id": "39744650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39744650", "title": "Pakistan Tobacco Board", "text": "Pakistan Tobacco Board\n\nPakistan Tobacco Board (PTB) is a statutory semi-autonomous department of Government of Pakistan under Ministry of Commerce. Pakistan Tobacco Board oversees the promotion of the cultivation, manufacture and export of tobacco and tobacco products in Pakistan.\n\n"}
{"id": "966760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=966760", "title": "Pastoralism", "text": "Pastoralism\n\nPastoralism is the branch of agriculture concerned with the raising of livestock. It is animal husbandry: the care, tending and use of animals such as cattle, camels, goats, yaks, llamas, reindeers, horses and sheep. \n\n\"Pastoralism\" generally has a mobile aspect; moving the herds in search of fresh pasture and water (in contrast to pastoral farming, in which non-nomadic farmers grow crops and improve pastures for their livestock). Pastoralism is similar to nomadic movement because all of them go to places season to productive land, and adapts well to the environment. For example, in savannas, pastoralists and their animals gather when rainwater is abundant and the pasture is rich, then scatter during the drying of the savanna.\n\nPastoralists often use their herds to affect their environment. Grazing herds on savannas can ensure the biodiversity of the savannas and prevent them from evolving into scrubland. Pastoralists may also use fire to make ecosystems more suitable for their food animals. For instance, the Turkana people of northwest Kenya use fire to prevent the invasion of the savanna by woody plant species. Biomass of the domesticated and wild animals was increased by a higher quality of grass.\n\nPastoralism is found in many variations throughout the world. Composition of herds, management practices, social organization and all other aspects of pastoralism vary between areas and between social groups. Many traditional practices have also had to adapt to the changing circumstance of the modern world, including climatic conditions affecting the availability of grasses. Ranches of the United States and sheep stations and cattle stations of Australia are seen by some as modern variations.\n\nOne theory is that pastoralism was created from mixed farming. Bates and Lees proposed that it was the incorporation of irrigation into farming which ensued in specialization. Advantages of mixed farming include reducing risk of failure, spreading labour, and re-utilizing resources. The importance of these advantages and disadvantages to different farmers differs according to the sociocultural preferences of the farmers and the biophysical conditions as determined by rainfall, radiation, soil type, and disease. The increased productivity of irrigation agriculture led to an increase in population and an added impact on resources. Bordering areas of land remained in use for animal breeding. This meant that large distances had to be covered by herds to collect sufficient forage. Specialization occurred as a result of the increasing importance of both intensive agriculture and pastoralism. Both agriculture and pastoralism developed alongside each other, with continuous interactions.\n\nThere is another theory that suggests pastoralism evolved from hunting and gathering. Hunters of wild goats and sheep were knowledgeable about herd mobility and the needs of the animals. Such hunters were mobile and followed the herds on their seasonal rounds. Undomesticated herds were chosen to become more controllable for the proto-pastoralist nomadic hunter and gatherer groups by taming and domesticating them. Hunter-gatherers' strategies in the past have been very diverse and contingent upon the local environment conditions, like those of mixed farmers. Foraging strategies have included hunting or trapping big game and smaller animals, fishing, collecting shellfish or insects, and gathering wild plant foods such as fruits, seeds, and nuts. These diverse strategies for survival amongst the migratory herds could also provide an evolutionary route towards nomadic pastoralism.\n\nPastoralism occurs in uncultivated areas. Wild animals eat the forage from the marginal lands and humans survive from milk, blood, and often meat of the herds and often trade by-products like wool and milk for money and food.\n\nPastoralists do not exist at basic subsistence. Pastoralists often compile wealth and participate in international trade. Pastoralists have trade relations with agriculturalists, horticulturalists, and other groups. Pastoralists are not extensively dependent on milk, blood, and meat of their herd. McCabe noted that when common property institutions are created, in long-lived communities, resource sustainability is much higher, which is evident in the East African grasslands of pastoralist populations. However, it needs to be noted that the property rights structure is only one of the many different parameters that affect the sustainability of resources, and common or private property per se, does not necessarily lead to sustainability.\n\nSome pastoralists supplement herding with hunting and gathering, fishing and/or small-scale farming or pastoral farming.\n\nMobility allows pastoralists to adapt to the environment, which opens up the possibility for both fertile and infertile regions to support human existence. Important components of pastoralism include low population density, mobility, vitality, and intricate information systems. The system is transformed to fit the environment rather than adjusting the environment to support the \"food production system.\" Mobile pastoralists can often cover a radius of a hundred to five hundred kilometers.\n\nPastoralists and their livestock have impacted the environment. Lands long used for pastoralism have transformed under the forces of grazing livestock and anthropogenic fire. Fire was a method of revitalizing pastureland and preventing forest regrowth. The collective environmental weights of fire and livestock browsing have transformed landscapes in many parts of the world. Fire has permitted pastoralists to tend the land for their livestock. Political boundaries are based on environmental boundaries. The Maquis shrublands of the Mediterranean region are dominated by pyrophytic plants that thrive under conditions of anthropogenic fire and livestock grazing.\n\nNomadic pastoralists have a global food-producing strategy depending on the management of herd animals for meat, skin, wool, milk, blood, manure, and transport. Nomadic pastoralism is practiced in different climates and environments with daily movement and seasonal migration. Pastoralists are among the most flexible populations. Pastoralist societies have had field armed men protect their livestock and their people and then to return into a disorganized pattern of foraging. The products of the herd animals are the most important resources, although the use of other resources, including domesticated and wild plants, hunted animals, and goods accessible in a market economy are not excluded. The boundaries between states impact the viability of subsistence and trade relations with cultivators.\n\nPastoralist strategies typify effective adaptation to the environment. Precipitation differences are evaluated by pastoralists. In East Africa, different animals are taken to specific regions throughout the year that corresponds to the seasonal patterns of precipitation. Transhumance is the seasonal migration of livestock and pastoralists between higher and lower pastures.\n\nSome pastoralists are constantly moving, which may put them at odds with sedentary people of towns and cities. The resulting conflicts can result in war for disputed lands. These disputes are recorded in ancient times in the Middle East, as well as for East Asia. Other pastoralists are able to remain in the same location which results in longer-standing housing.\n\nDifferent mobility patterns can be observed: Somali pastoralists keep their animals in one of the harshest environments but they have evolved of the centuries. Somalis have well developed pastoral culture where complete system of life and governance has been refined. Somali poetry depicts humans interactions, pastoral animals, beasts on the prowl, and other natural things such the rain, celestial events and historic events of significance. \nMobility was an important strategy for the Ariaal; however with the loss of grazing land impacted by the growth in population, severe drought, the expansion of agriculture, and the expansion of commercial ranches and game parks, mobility was lost. The poorest families were driven out of pastoralism and into towns to take jobs. Few Ariaal families benefited from education, healthcare, and income earning.\n\nThe flexibility of pastoralists to respond to environmental change was reduced by colonization. For example, mobility was limited in the Sahel region of Africa with settlement being encouraged. The population tripled and sanitation and medical treatment were improved.\n\nThe Afar pastoralists in Ethiopia uses an indigenous communication method called \"dagu\" for information. This helps them in getting crucial information about climate and availability of pastures at various locations.\n\nPastoralists have mental maps of the value of specific environments at different times of year. Pastoralists have an understanding of ecological processes and the environment. Information sharing is vital for creating knowledge through the networks of linked societies.\n\nPastoralists produce food in the world’s harshest environments, and pastoral production supports the livelihoods of rural populations on almost half of the world’s land. Several hundred million people are pastoralists, mostly in Africa and Asia. Pastoralists manage rangelands covering about a third of the Earth’s terrestrial surface and are able to produce food where crop production is not possible.\n\nPastoralism has been shown, \"based on a review of many studies, to be between 2 and 10 times more productive per unit of land than the capital intensive alternatives that have been put forward\". However, many of these benefits go unmeasured and are frequently squandered by policies and investments that seek to replace pastoralism with more capital intensive modes of production. They have traditionally suffered from poor understanding, marginalization and exclusion from dialogue. The Pastoralist Knowledge Hub, managed by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the UN serves as a knowledge repository on technical excellence on pastoralism as well as \"a neutral forum for exchange and alliance building among pastoralists and stakeholders working on pastoralist issues\".\n\nThere is a variation in genetic makeup of the farm animals driven mainly by natural and human based selection. Pastoralists in large part of Sub Saharan Africa are preferring livestock breeds which are adapted to their environment and able to tolerate drought and diseases to mention the few. However in other animal production systems these breeds are discouraged and more productive exotic ones are favored. This situation could not be left unaddressed due to the changes in market preferences and climate all over the world, which could lead to changes in livestock diseases occurrence and decline forage quality and availability. Hence pastoralists are conserving farm animal genetic through community based conservation (CBC) of local livestock breeds. Generally conserving farm animal genetic resources under pastoralism is advantageous in terms of reliability and associated cost.\n\nHardin's \"Tragedy of the Commons\" (1968) described how common property resources, such as the land shared by pastoralists, eventually become overused and ruined. According to Hardin's paper, the pastoralist land use strategy suffered criticisms of being unstable and a cause of environmental degradation.\n\nPastoralists in the Sahel zone in Africa were held responsible for the depletion of resources. The depletion of resources was actually triggered by a prior interference and punitive climate conditions. Hardin's paper suggests a solution to the problems, offering a coherent basis for privatization of land, which stimulates the transfer of land from tribal peoples to the state or to individuals. The privatized programs impact the livelihood of the pastoralist societies while weakening the environment.\n\nHowever, recently it has been shown that pastoralism supports human existence in harsh environments and often represents a sustainable approach to land use.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44526478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44526478", "title": "Patient choice", "text": "Patient choice\n\nPatient choice is a concept introduced into the NHS in England. Most patients are supposed to be able to choose the clinician whom they want to provide them with healthcare and that money to pay for the service should follow their choice. Before the advent of the internal market, in principle, a GP could refer a patient to any specialist in the UK. When contracts were introduced in 1990 these were called extracontractual referrals. From 1999 the concept of Out of Area Treatments was developed. These referrals were not necessarily related to choice made by a patient. Specialised treatments were not, and are not, available in every area.\n\nThe regulations provide that a patient can choose to be seen by any NHS trust, public body, commercial organisation or third sector body, provided it holds a “commissioning contract” either with NHS England or a Clinical Commissioning Group when they are referred by their GP, community dentist or optometrist for treatment that is not identified as being immediately required. The Government’s mandate to NHS England for 2016-17 issued by Jeremy Hunt specifies “We want people to be empowered to shape and manage their own health and care and make meaningful choices, particularly for maternity services, people with long term conditions and end-of-life care”.\n\n\nAround 80% patients referred by their GP to a first outpatient hospital appointment were eligible to choose the hospital. There are however some exceptions to hospital choice policy. These exceptions include those where speed of access is important such as suspected cancer 2 week wait referrals and urgent referrals such as suspected stroke and heart attack. Referrals to mental health and maternity services were excluded from the policy until April 2014. Patients who are detained, and serving members of the armed forces are not entitled to exercise choice.\n\nThe NHS Constitution includes a right to choice. It states: You have the right to make choices about your NHS care and to information to support these choices. The options available to you will develop over time and depend on your individual needs. It also repeats the requirements specified in the GP contract: \"You have the right to choose your GP practice, and to be accepted by that practice unless there are reasonable grounds to refuse, in which case you will be informed of those reasons. You have the right to express a preference for using a particular doctor within your GP practice, and for the practice to try to comply.\"\n\nCCG and NHS England are required by the regulations to “make arrangements” to give effect to the right of patients to exercise their patient choice. It is for the clinician making the referral to decide whether it is clinically appropriate. The right to choice only extends to a first appointment. It does not imply that any chosen treatment must be paid for. That would depend on the terms of the provider's contract.\n\nSpire Healthcare complained to Monitor (NHS) in 2013 that the Clinical Commissioning Groups in Blackpool, and in Fylde and Wyre were not doing enough to encourage patient choice, but their complaint was dismissed in September 2014.\n\nIt is intended that patients can choose the hospital they are seen in by comparing clinical quality, waiting times, location and other patients' opinions. In order to enable patients to compare and choose hospitals the national NHS website established a hospital comparison tool. The information that users can access to compare hospital performance can include:\n\nUsing the hospital comparison tool is supposed to be quite simple. Users enter their postcode and the condition that they are being referred for.\n\nIN 2005 an electronic booking service known as Choose and Book was introduced across the NHS in England. This service enabled GPs and patients to shortlist a list of clinically appropriate hospitals for the patient to choose from, and lets the patient make appointments with hospitals either online or over the phone.Choose and Book was based around Directory of Services which includes the majority of NHS hospital services for GPs to shortlist for their patients to choose from. GPs were given financial incentives to use the system \n\nChoose and Book was replaced by the NHS e-Referral Service in June 2015.\n\nThe 1993 report, Changing Childbirth, called choice, control, and continuity of carer for the mother as the most important tenets of maternity care, but its recommendations were not delivered.\n\nBaroness Cumberlege conducted a review of maternity services for NHS England in 2015. Better Births, the report of the national maternity review recommended that all women should have the choice to give birth where they want, with the support of the same midwife throughout pregnancy, labour and the early weeks of motherhood, with control over a personal maternity care budget of £3,000 to be spent on the NHS care they choose. This would be driven by a personal care plan, updated during pregnancy. Every woman should have an electronic patient record which they can access and add to.\n\nThe proportion of patients who reported that they were offered a choice of provider rose steadily until 2010 when 32% of those responding to the inpatient survey reported that they had been offered a choice. By 2013 the proportion had fallen to 27%.\n\nPatient participation\n\n"}
{"id": "44358241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44358241", "title": "Post-hospitalist", "text": "Post-hospitalist\n\nPost-Hospitalist Medicine is the discipline concerned with the medical care of post-acute patients. Physicians whose primary professional focus is post-hospital care are post-hospitalists.\nTypical community PCPs and most other NP/PA/extender models do not have the time or ability to effectively monitor patient care when the patient is in a post-acute facility. As a result, increased hospitalizations, readmissions and unnecessary ER utilization occur frequently, increasing overall health care costs. When patients become ill with an urgent or non-emergency problem, most traditional care models typically direct the patient to the ER, utilizing the ER as an outpatient clinic rather than going to the post-acute facility, examining and treating the patient on-site.\n\nBy comparison, other models providing limited results and exposure to facilities include the following:\n\nPost-hospitalist medical services focus on providing better care to meet the needs of high-risk, medically complex patients with the following common diagnoses:\nIn many instances, this population of patient has multiple diagnoses, co-morbidities and their medical needs are extensive. \nIn the past, these patients would have stayed in the hospital much longer and at much higher overall health care costs. Today, managing their care in less costly post-acute settings such as LTACs, Rehab Centers, Skilled Nursing and Long-Term Care Facilities is possible with the use of Post-Hospitalist Medical Services being provided on-site in these settings. Post Hospitalists provide these specialized medical services exclusively in these various types of post-acute facilities.\n\nThe term post-hospitalist was first attributed to Thomas Prose, MD, MPH, MBA, who coined the term in 2012. Prose founded General Medicine P.C.—a health care practice devoted to the practice of post-hospitalist medicine in 1983. The practice of post-hospitalist medicine is still new in the United States and—while it has not yet reached widespread adoption—is one of the faster growing of medical specialties.\n\nAs a relatively new specialty, only recently has certification for specialty experience and training for hospital medicine been offered. The American Board of Hospital Medicine (ABHM), a Member Board of the American Board of Physician Specialties (ABPS), was founded in 2009. The ABHM was North America’s first board of certification devoted exclusively to hospital medicine. In September 2009, the American Board of Internal Medicine (ABIM) created a program that provides general internists practicing in hospital settings the opportunity to maintain Internal Medicine Certification with a Focused Practice in Hospital Medicine (FPHM).\n\nResearch shows that hospitalists reduce the length of stay, treatment costs and improve the overall efficiency of care for hospitalized patients. Post-hospitalists are leaders on several quality improvement initiatives in key areas including transitions of care, co-management of patients, reducing hospital acquired diseases and optimizing the care of patients.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48744181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48744181", "title": "Pál Heim", "text": "Pál Heim\n\nPál Heim (Budapest, 30 November 1875 – Budapest, 23 October 1929; ) was a Hungarian pediatrician and university professor.\n\nHe gained his medical degree in 1897 from the University of Budapest. In 1901 he got a position at a hospital in Budapest, where he specialized in treating babies and children. He served as a doctor in the First World War, and in 1916 he became leader of a hospital for babies in Budapest. Since 1918 he also taught at the university, where he became rector in 1921. He then went to the university in Pécs, where he lived until 1929. He organized a network of nurses to babies, who became known as the \"Heim Sisters\".\n\nIn the autumn of 1928, his former mentor János Bókai retired as head of pediatrics, and Heim was invited to take the post. He accepted the invitation, although he was sorry to leave Pécs. A few months after his appointment, he died from pneumonia at the age of 54. His body was interred at Kerepesi cemetery.\n\nPál Heim Children's Hospital in Budapest is named for him.\n"}
{"id": "57839450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57839450", "title": "Russian spy poisoning", "text": "Russian spy poisoning\n\nRussian spy poisoning may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "7663317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7663317", "title": "Ruth Pfau", "text": "Ruth Pfau\n\nDr Ruth Katherina Martha Pfau HI, RM, HP, NQA, SQA (9 September 1929 – 10 August 2017) was a German-born Pakistani physician and nun of the Society of the Daughters of Heart of Mary. She moved from Germany to Pakistan and devoted more than 55 years of her life fighting leprosy in Pakistan.\n\nKnown as \"Pakistan's Mother Teresa\", Pfau contributed in establishing 157 leprosy clinics across Pakistan, that treated over 56,780 people.\n\nPfau was born on 9 September 1929 in Leipzig, Germany, to Lutheran Protestant parents. She had four sisters and one brother. Her home was destroyed by bombing during World War II. Following the post-war Soviet occupation of East Germany she escaped to West Germany along with her family, and chose medicine as her future career. During the 1950s, she studied medicine at the University of Mainz. During this time, Pfau met several times with a Dutch Christian woman, who was a concentration camp survivor and currently dedicated her life to \"preaching love and forgiveness\". After \"her life-changing experience\", Pfau left \"a romantic association\" with a fellow student and got involved in discussions in Mainz's philosophy and classical literature department. After completing her clinical examination, Pfau moved to Marburg to carry on her clinical studies. Then she was baptized as an Evangelical Protestant in 1951, before her conversion to Roman Catholicism in 1953. Pfau stated that she learned the \"courage of being human\" from Saint Thomas Aquinas through Josef Pieper's writing. She joined a Catholic parish, and she was greatly influenced by Romano Guardini's \"The Lord\" in this period.\n\nIn 1957, she travelled to Paris and joined the Daughters of the Heart of Mary, a Catholic order. She said, \"When you receive such a calling, you cannot turn it down, for it is not you who has made the choice. ... God has chosen you for himself.\" The order later sent her to southern India; however, in 1960, a visa issue meant she became stuck in Karachi. She travelled to various parts of Pakistan and across the border to Afghanistan to rescue patients who were abandoned by their families or locked in small rooms for a lifetime.\n\nIn 1960, aged 31, she decided to dedicate the rest of her life to the people of Pakistan and their battle against leprosy outbreaks. While in Karachi, by chance she visited the Lepers’ Colony behind McLeod Road (now I. I. Chundrigar Road) near the City Railway Station. Here she decided that the care of patients would be her life's calling. She started with medical treatment for the leprosy patients in a hut in this slum. The Marie Adelaide Leprosy Centre was founded (which later branched out into tuberculosis and blindness prevention programmes) and social work for the leprosy patients and their family members was started by Dr. I. K. Gill. A Leprosy Clinic was bought in April 1963 and patients from all over Karachi, Pakistan, and even from Afghanistan came for treatment.\n\nIn 1979, she was appointed as the Federal Advisor on Leprosy to the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare of Government of Pakistan. Pfau went to distant areas of Pakistan where there were no medical facilities for leprosy patients. She collected donations in Germany and Pakistan and cooperated with hospitals in Rawalpindi and Karachi.\nIn recognition of her service to the country, she was awarded Pakistani citizenship in 1988.\n\nDue to her continued efforts, in 1996 the World Health Organization declared Pakistan one of the first countries in Asia to have controlled leprosy. According to the \"Dawn\", the number of leprosy cases nationwide dropped significantly from 19,398 in the early 1980s to 531 in 2016.\n\nOn 9 September 1999, Archbishop of Karachi, Simeon Anthony Pereira, celebrated a Mass at St. Patrick's Cathedral to celebrate Sr. Pfau’s 70th birthday, which was attended by Christians together with Muslims.\n\nIn the early morning on 10 August 2017, around 4:00 a.m. PST, Pfau died at the Aga Khan University Hospital in Karachi after being admitted there due to respiratory problems on 4 August 2017. She was put on a ventilator after her condition worsened on 6 August. But she refused the life support machine, which made her doctors remove it the next day, since she wished for \"living a natural life\". Pfau had been dealing with several health problems due to her advancing age, including kidney and heart disease, for which she had been undergoing treatment for several years.\n\nPresident Mamnoon Hussain issued the statement: “Dr Pfau’s services to end leprosy in Pakistan cannot be forgotten. She left her homeland and made Pakistan her home to serve humanity. Pakistani nation salutes Dr Pfau and her great tradition to serve humanity will be continued.”\n\nPrime Minister Shahid Khaqan Abbasi said: “Dr Ruth Pfau may have been born in Germany, [but] her heart was always in Pakistan.” He further added that, “she came here at the dawn of a young nation looking to make lives better for those afflicted by disease, and in doing so, found herself a home. We will remember her for her courage, her loyalty, her service to the eradication of leprosy, and most of all, her patriotism.” He also announced that a state funeral would be held for her.\n\nChief of Army Staff Qamar Bajwa referred to Pfau as an \"ambassador of humanity\".\n\nOn 19 August 2017, her body lay in state at the Holy Family Hospital in Karachi ahead of the funeral. The state funeral for Pfau was held at Saint Patrick's Cathedral, in front of which the flags of Pakistan and Vatican City were raised at half mast, with Archbishop Joseph Coutts presiding over the Requiem. The Pakistani flag was draped over her coffin and a 19-gun salute was offered by contingents of all three Pakistan Armed Forces. The ceremony was broadcast live on Pakistan Television. Pfau was reportedly the first Christian and first non-Muslim to have a state funeral in Pakistan. She was then buried at Gora Qabaristan, a Christian cemetery in Karachi.\n\nDr Ruth Pfau is well respected by the Muslims in Pakistan who were the majority of patients in the Marie Adelaide Leprosy Centre. Saleem Maseh Amir says that she never talked about religions, yet \"her faith, service, and love\" show actual representations of the spirit to animate interreligious relations.\n\nIn 2018 her private residence in Karachi is being converted into a museum to showcase some of her personal possessions.\n\nDr. Pfau is recognised in Pakistan and abroad as a distinguished human being, and had been awarded many awards and medals. On 23 March 1989, Pfau received the Hilal-i-Pakistan award presented by the then-President of Pakistan Ghulam Ishaq Khan at the President House for her work with leprosy patients.\n\nSpeaking at a function in Islamabad on 30 January 2000, to mark the 47th World Leprosy Day, the then-President Rafiq Tarar praised Pfau, who built up the National Leprosy Control Program in Pakistan, for working not only for those afflicted with leprosy but also for those with tuberculosis. In 2006, Pfau was honoured as the 'Woman of the Year 2006' by City FM89.\n\nOn 14 August 2010, on the occasion of Pakistan's Independence Day, the then-President of Pakistan Asif Ali Zardari awarded Pfau the Nishan-i-Quaid-i-Azam for public service. She was hailed as Pakistan's \"Mother Teresa\" after her work towards helping people displaced by the 2010 Pakistan floods. In 2015, Pfau was awarded the Staufer Medal, the highest award of the German state of Baden-Württemberg.\n\nOn 19 August 2017, Sindh Chief Minister Syed Murad Ali Shah announced renaming of the Civil Hospital Karachi to Dr. Ruth Pfau Hospital as an acknowledgment of \"selfless services of the late social servant\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36936359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36936359", "title": "Samira Negrouche", "text": "Samira Negrouche\n\nSamira Negrouche, francophone Algerian writer and poet, born in Algiers, in September 13, 1980. Also a Medical Doctor, she lives and works in Algeria.\n\nNegrouche is mainly known for her poetry, but also for her prose, her academic and dramatic texts, and her other creative writings. Furthermore, she translates Algerian contemporary poetry written in Arab and other regional languages called \"minoritaries\" into English and French. Also, she works in various fields, such as video, theater, dance, photography and diverse visual arts expressions.\n\nThe author received a scholarship from the National Book Centre to pursue a stage in France during 2004 and 2005. In 2009, in Lyon, performing with the Greek musician and singer in \"Without precaution ...\" she influenced public opinion. In 2012, she edited contemporary Algerian poetry written in French published by éditions l'Amandier under the title \"Quand l'Amandier refleurira\"\n\nNegrouche is regularly invited to participate in international literary events, in which she often reads poetry and coordinates and manages different activities.\n\nNegrouche is a member of the international committee to the festival \"Voice of the Mediterranean\" Lodève and general secretary to the Algeria PEN club. She also creates CADMOS, a cultural association for the preservation of Mediterranean cultural patrimony.\n\nHer poetry has been translated into more than twenty languages among those books in Spanish, Italian and Bulgarian.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nPart of the author's biography is taken from: Samira Negrouche, \"Le Jazz des oliviers\", Blida: Editions du Tell, 2010.\n"}
{"id": "54121370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54121370", "title": "Samuel DeButts", "text": "Samuel DeButts\n\nSamuel DeButts was a prominent Washington, D.C. area physician in the early 1800s. He acquired his plantation, Mt. Welby, just south of D.C. along the Potomac River in 1811. Today, Mt. Welby is part of the Oxon Cove and Oxon Hill National Park, and the DeButts home is occupied by the park service as the park's offices.\n\nDeButts descendants include several prominent Americans, including Harry A. deButts, an executive with the Southern Railway in the 1950s, and John D. deButts, the last CEO of AT&T before its breakup.\n"}
{"id": "48942432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48942432", "title": "Sex in Public (TV series)", "text": "Sex in Public (TV series)\n\nSex in Public is an American reality television series that premiered on October 2, 2015, on TLC. The series is hosted by sex therapist Jill Dictrow who goes undercover in various places in order to approach people and help them dealing with their personal problems related to sex and dating.\n\nDespite its title, the series does not actually deal with situations related to public sex itself, but rather confronts people who are not comfortable openly discussing their sex lives.\n\nDue to its inappropriate content, the series was disapproved by the Parents Television Council, which criticised the network's programming decisions and described the show as \"a desperate move to attract attention.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "39107086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39107086", "title": "Sexual and reproductive health and rights", "text": "Sexual and reproductive health and rights\n\nSexual and reproductive health and rights or \"SRHR\" is an of human rights applied to sexuality and reproduction. It is a combination of four fields that in some contexts are more or less distinct from each other, but less so or not at all in other contexts. These four fields are sexual health, sexual rights, reproductive health and reproductive rights. In the concept of SRHR, these four fields are treated as separate but inherently intertwined.\n\nDistinctions between these four fields are not always made. Sexual health and reproductive health are sometimes treated as synonymous to each other, as are sexual rights and reproductive rights. In some cases, sexual rights are included in the term sexual health, or vice versa. Not only do different non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and governments use different terminologies, but different terminologies are often used within the same organization.\n\nSome of the notable global NGOs that fight for sexual and reproductive health and rights include IPPF (International Planned Parenthood Federation), ILGA (International Lesbian and Gay Alliance), WAS (World Association for Sexual Health - formerly known as World Association for Sexology), and International HIV/AIDS Alliance.\n\nGovernment-run family planning programs first began in the 1950s. However, the main objectives of these programs were often centered around population control for economic growth and development. In 1994, the International Conference on Population and Development (ICPD) in Cairo, Egypt marked a significant shift in perspective in regards to reproductive health and is considered to be the birth of the modern SRHR movement. Over the course of the conference, debates surrounding family planning shifted from that of economics to that of public health and human rights. A Program of Action (PoA) was developed by the end of the ICPD and was approved and adopted by 179 countries. The PoA affirmed sexual and reproductive health as a universal human right and outlined global goals and objectives for improving reproductive heath based around central themes of free choice, women's empowerment, and viewing sexual and reproductive health in terms of physical and emotional well-being. The PoA outlined a series of goals, based on a central mission of achieving universal access to reproductive health worldwide, that were aimed to be accomplished by 2015. In 2000, the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) were developed, and although reproductive health was not explicitly stated as one of the goals, it became an important component to Goals 3, 4, and 5. In 2010, the original PoA was revisited by the United Nations and updated to reflect their objective of achieving universal reproductive health care by 2015. When the MDGs and ICPD PoA phased out in 2015, the next objectives for SRHR were folded into the Sustainable Development Goals, the next iteration of the MDGs which outline objectives to combat poverty through 2030.\n\nThe World Health Organization defines sexual health as: \"Sexual health is a state of physical, mental and social well-being in relation to sexuality. It requires a positive and respectful approach to sexuality and sexual relationships, as well as the possibility of having pleasurable and safe sexual experiences, free of coercion, discrimination and violence.\"\n\nUnlike the other three aspects of SRHR, the struggle for sexual rights include, and focus on, sexual pleasure and emotional sexual expression. One platform for this struggle is the WAS Declaration of Sexual Rights.\n\nThe Platform for Action from the 1995 Beijing Conference on Women established that human rights include the right of women freely and without coercion, violence or discrimination, to have control over and make decisions concerning their own sexuality, including their own sexual and reproductive health. This paragraph has been interpreted by some countries as the applicable definition of women’s sexual rights. The UN Commission on Human Rights has established that if women had more power, their ability to protect themselves against violence would be strengthened.\n\nAt the 14th World Congress of Sexology (Hong Kong, 1999), the WAS adopted the Declaration of Sexual Rights, which originally included 11 sexual rights. It was heavily revised and expanded in March 2014 by the WAS Advisory Council to include 16 sexual rights:\n\nThis Declaration influenced The Yogyakarta Principles (which were launched as a set of international principles relating to sexual orientation and gender identity on 26 March 2007), especially on the idea of each person's integrity, and right to sexual and reproductive health.\n\nIn 2015 the U.S. government said it would begin using the term \"sexual rights\" in discussions of human rights and global development.\n\nWithin the framework of the World Health Organization's (WHO) definition of health as a state of complete physical, mental and social well-being, and not merely the absence of disease or infirmity, reproductive health, or sexual health/hygiene, addresses the reproductive processes, functions and system at all stages of life. Reproductive health, therefore, implies that people are able to have a responsible, satisfying and safer sex life and that they have the capability to reproduce and the freedom to decide if, when and how often to do so. One interpretation of this implies that men and women ought to be informed of and to have access to safe, effective, affordable and acceptable methods of birth control; also access to appropriate health care services of sexual, reproductive medicine and implementation of health education programs to stress the importance of women to go safely through pregnancy and childbirth could provide couples with the best chance of having a healthy infant. On the other hand, individuals do face inequalities in reproductive health services. Inequalities vary based on socioeconomic status, education level, age, ethnicity, religion, and resources available in their environment. It is possible for example, that low income individuals lack the resources for appropriate health services and the knowledge to know what is appropriate for maintaining reproductive health.\n\nReproductive rights are legal rights and freedoms relating to reproduction and reproductive health. The World Health Organization defines reproductive rights as follows:\n\nReproductive rights rest on the recognition of the basic right of all couples and individuals to decide freely and responsibly the number, spacing and timing of their children and to have the information and means to do so, and the right to attain the highest standard of sexual and reproductive health. They also include the right of all to make decisions concerning reproduction free of discrimination, coercion and violence.\nDespite frequent changes to frameworks, overall goals for SRHR remain little changed. As first stipulated at the ICPD, universal reproductive health care remains the ultimate objective, and with each new framework, targets are developed to progress towards this. In the original ICPD Program of Action, the primary call was for universal access to healthcare, including reproductive healthcare, family planning and sexual health. Over time, these have expanded to include the right to access education regarding sexual and reproductive health, an end to female genital mutilation, and increased women's empowerment in social, political, and cultural spheres.\n\nSpecial goals and targets were also created to address adolescent sexual and reproductive health needs. Adolescents are often the most vulnerable to risks associated with sexual activity, including HIV, due to personal and social issues such as feelings of isolation, child marriage, and stigmatization. Governments realized the importance of investing in the health of adolescents as a means of establishing future well-being for their societies. As a result, the Commission on Population and Development developed a series of fundamental rights for adolescents including the right to comprehensive sex education, the right to decide all matters related to their sexuality, and access to sexual and reproductive health services without discrimination (including safe abortions wherever legal).\n\n"}
{"id": "32601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32601", "title": "Vegetarian cuisine", "text": "Vegetarian cuisine\n\nVegetarian cuisine is based on food that meets vegetarian standards by not including meat and animal tissue products (such as gelatin or animal-derived rennet). For lacto-ovo vegetarianism (the most common type of vegetarianism in the Western world), eggs and dairy products, such as milk and cheese, are permitted. For lacto vegetarianism, the earliest known type of vegetarianism (recorded in India), dairy products, such as milk and cheese, are permitted. The strictest forms of vegetarianism are veganism and fruitarianism, which exclude all animal products, including dairy, honey, and some refined sugars if filtered and whitened with bone char. There are also partial vegetarians who do not eat meat but may eat fish.\n\nVegetarian foods can be classified into several different types:\n\n\nFood regarded as suitable for all vegetarians (including vegans) typically includes:\nFoods not suitable for vegans, but acceptable for some other types of vegetarians:\n\nThese are some of the most common dishes that vegetarians eat without substitution of ingredients. Such dishes include, from breakfasts to dinnertime desserts:\n\n\n\n\nMost desserts, including pies, cobblers, cakes, brownies, cookies, truffles, Rice Krispie treats (from gelatin-free marshmallows or marshmallow fluff), peanut butter treats, pudding, rice pudding, ice cream, crème brulée, etc., are free of meat and fish and are suitable for ovo-lacto vegetarians. Eastern confectionery and desserts, such as halva and Turkish delight, are mostly vegan, while others such as baklava (which often contains butter) are lacto vegetarian. Indian desserts and sweets are mostly vegetarian like peda, barfi, gulab jamun, shrikhand, basundi, kaju katri, rasgulla, cham cham, rajbhog, etc. Indian sweets are mostly made from milk products and are thus lacto vegetarian; dry fruit-based sweets are vegan.\n\nThese are vegetarian versions of popular dishes that non-vegetarians enjoy and are frequently consumed as fast food, comfort food, transition food for new vegetarians, or a way to show non-vegetarians that they can be vegetarians while still enjoying their favorite foods. Many vegetarians just enjoy these dishes as part of a varied diet.\n\nSome popular mock-meat dishes include:\n\nMycoprotein is another common base for mock-meats, and vegetarian flavorings are added to these bases, such as for a seafood taste.\n\nCommercial products, marketed especially towards vegetarians and labeled as such, are available in most countries worldwide, in varying amounts and quality. As example, in Australia, various vegetarian products are available in most of supermarket chains and a vegetarian shopping guide is provided by Vegetarian/Vegan Society of Queensland. However, the biggest market for commercially vegetarian-labeled foods is India, with official governmental laws regulating the \"vegetarian\" and \"non vegetarian\" labels.\n"}
{"id": "34979775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34979775", "title": "West Virginia Healthy Lifestyles Act of 2005", "text": "West Virginia Healthy Lifestyles Act of 2005\n\nThe West Virginia Healthy Lifestyles Act of 2005 is a West Virginia state law enacted in 2005. Signed into law by Governor Joe Manchin III, the act's purpose was to address obesity in the state. The state legislature found in 2005 that \"obesity is a problem of epidemic proportions\" in West Virginia.\n\nIntroduced as House Bill 2816, the West Virginia Health Lifestyles Act consists of five school-based mandates which require health education assessments, fitness assessments, physical education, body mass index (BMI) assessments and the availability of healthy beverages in schools.\n\nThe law restricts elementary schools, middle schools, and junior high schools from selling soft drinks in areas accessible to students during the school day. High schools are allowed to sell soft drinks in vending machines during the school day only if they also offer healthy drink options as well and only if at least fifty percent of the drinks available are considered to be healthy. The law recognizes healthy drinks as water, low-fat milk, juices made one hundred percent from fruits and vegetables, and other juice drinks with a minimum of twenty percent real juice. This portion of the law states that, \"Seventy-five percent of the profits from the sale of healthy beverages and soft drinks shall be allocated by a majority vote of the faculty senate of each school and twenty-five percent of the profits from the sale of healthy beverages and soft drinks shall be allocated to the purchase of necessary supplies by the principal of the school.\"\n\nIn addition to the school-based mandates, the act created the Office of Healthy Lifestyles within the West Virginia Department of Health and Human Resources, a partnership to encourage healthy lifestyles by children and families in the state, and an interest bearing account known as the Healthy Lifestyles Fund.\n\nThe policy's school-based elements were implemented beginning in 2006. The state has received funding to evaluate the legislation and its impact from the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, a national philanthropy organization dedicating to improving health care in the United States.\n\nCarole Harris, professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry at the West Virginia University, conducted research that evaluated the West Virginia Healthy Lifestyles Act and the West Virginia Board of Education’s school nutrition standards. Dr. Harris noted that participation by students and schools in health education and fitness testing had improved, but approximately 40 percent of schools are unable to meet one or more of the five mandates in the act: \"The combination of these policies for nutrition and physical activity make West Virginia one of the most progressive states in the country when it comes to addressing childhood obesity and related issues. But some schools continue to struggle to provide the mandated physical education because of inadequate staffing, facilities, or both.\"\n"}
{"id": "6402457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6402457", "title": "Águas Livres Aqueduct", "text": "Águas Livres Aqueduct\n\nThe Águas Livres Aqueduct (, , \"Aqueduct of the Free Waters\") is a historic aqueduct in the city of Lisbon, Portugal. It is one of the most remarkable examples of 18th-century Portuguese engineering. The main course of the aqueduct covers 18 km, but the whole network of canals extends through nearly 58 km.\n\nThe city of Lisbon has always suffered from the lack of drinking water, and King John V decided to build an aqueduct to bring water from sources in the parish of Caneças, in the modern municipality of Odivelas. The project was paid for by a special sales tax on beef, olive oil, wine, and other products.\n\nConstruction started in 1731 under the direction of Italian architect Antonio Canevari, replaced in 1732 by a group of Portuguese architects and engineers, including Manuel da Maia, Azevedo Fortes and José da Silva Pais. Between 1733 and 1736, the project was directed by Manuel da Maia, who in turn was replaced by Custódio Vieira, who would remain at the head of the project until around 1747. \n\nCustódio Vieira conceived the centerpiece of the aqueduct, the arches over the Alcantara valley, completed in 1744. A total of 35 arches cross the valley, covering 941 m. The tallest arches reach a height of 65 m, and many are pointed, reminiscent of arches in Gothic style. It is considered a masterpiece of engineering in the Baroque period.\n\nIn 1748, although the project was still unfinished, the aqueduct finally started to bring water to the city of Lisbon, a fact celebrated in a commemorative arch built in the Amoreiras neighbourhood. From this period on, construction was overseen by other architects, including Carlos Mardel of Hungary and others. During the reigns of José I and Maria I, the network of canals and fountains was greatly enlarged. \n\nOn November 1st, 1755, the 1755 Lisbon earthquake hit the city, but the brand new aqueduct managed to remain intact.\n\nIt is possible to visit and cross the aqueduct, starting at the \"Museu da Água\" (Water Museum).\n\nThe \"Mãe d'Água\" (Mother of the Water) reservoir of the Amoreiras, the largest of the water reservoirs, was finished in 1834. This reservoir, with a capacity of 5,500 m³ of water, was designed by Carlos Mardel. It is now deactivated and can be visited as part of the \"Museu da Água\" (Water Museum).\n\n"}
