{"id": "27436251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27436251", "title": "Afua", "text": "Afua\n\nAfua is an islet in the Fakaofo island group of Tokelau, near Fenua Fala.\n"}
{"id": "43345489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43345489", "title": "Bibliography of Aeolian Research", "text": "Bibliography of Aeolian Research\n\nThe Bibliography of Aeolian Research (BAR) is a comprehensive bibliography focused on the study of the detachment, transport, and deposition of sediments by wind.\n\nAeolian research is a sub-discipline of the physical sciences that focuses on the activity of the winds, with an emphasis on the winds' ability to interact with and shape the surface of the Earth and other planets. Aeolian research spans a broad array of disciplines and may include the study of aeolian processes and associated aeolian landforms, aeolian deposits, and sedimentary features; the study of wind erosion and its control by tillage, cover crops, shelterbelts, and other management practices; and the study of mineral dust, dust storms and the effects of fine particulate matter on climate and air quality.\n\nAn extensive Bibliography of Aeolian Research (BAR) was constructed that contains references to every known scientific manuscript published in the field of aeolian research from 1646 to 2015. The BAR contains over 43,000 bibliographic citations.\n\nAs with most bibliographies, the Bibliography of Aeolian Research has benefited from past bibliographies. The BAR lists more than forty-five bibliographies that focus on at least one aspect of aeolian research and parts of these have been incorporated into the BAR. Older bibliographies are especially important because they provide a record of early publications. The oldest bibliography incorporated into the BAR is the \"Bibliography of Meteorology\" compiled by Oliver Fassig in 1889. Citations have also been extracted from the Bibliography of Eolian Geology prepared for the United States Department of Agriculture by Conrad Stuntz and Edward Free. Other important bibliographies that have been incorporated into the BAR include two online bibliographies that were maintained by Andrew Warren of University College London titled \"A Bibliography of Wind Erosion and Related Phenomena\" and \"A Bibliography of Desert Dunes and Associated Phenomena\". The Bibliography of Aeolian Research contains more citations extracted from these two bibliographies than from any other source. Citations were also obtained from a monthly internet posting called \"Aeolian Papers of the Month\", a list of published papers compiled each month from 1996-2001 by Thomas Gill at the Texas Tech University.\n\nEditors Andrew Warren, John Stout and Thomas Gill collected bibliographic citations by searching databases and extracting citations from recent publications. New entries included citations to scholarly articles, books, theses, dissertations, and reports.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47754063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47754063", "title": "Blue River Provincial Park", "text": "Blue River Provincial Park\n\nThe Blue River Provincial Park (French: \"Parc provincial de la Rivière Bleue\") is a nature reserve in Yaté Commune, South Province, New Caledonia.\n\nThe Blue River Provincial Park is part of the larger (15,900ha) Upper Yaté fauna reserve. The Park covers the basins of the Blue, White, and Month of May Rivers, the latter two of which have drained into Yaté Lake since the construction of the Yaté Dam in 1958. Part of the banks and the length of the lake are in the park, including a large drowned forest. The altitude varies from 160 to 1,250 metres.\n\nThe hydrography and the nature of the terrain lead to the presence of several waterfalls, water holes, and giant's kettle in the Blue River valley.\n\nThe park includes two biomes typical of New Caledonia: maquis shrubland overlying peridotite rock and tropical rainforest. There is a very high rate of biodiversity of New Caledonia. In particular, the park is known for being one of the last areas where the kagu, an endangered bird which has become a symbol of the country, can be seen in its natural habitat, with a population of about 700; this is the largest single population of the species in the wild. Other endemic and rare animals in the park include the crow honeyeater, notou, New Caledonian crow, and crested gecko.\n\nThe park contains a thousand-year-old, forty-metre-tall giant Agathis lanceolata tree, one of the largest known in New Caledonia. There are also wild carnivorous plants (\"Drosera neocaledonica\" and \"Nepenths vieillardii\") and orchids.\n\nHuman settlement in the park is prehistoric; petroglyphs can be found in the Blue River valley. At the beginning of the twentieth century, forestry and chrome mining led to the development of modern transport infrastructure, much of which is still in place; there are still 36km of railways for transporting logs and ore, a traction engine winch and the Pérignon bridge, made of local wood, which crosses the branch of the lake created in the White River in 1958. The construction of the Yaté Dam the same year made major changes to the terrain. The park was founded in 1980 and came under the responsibility of the South Province when the provinces of New Caledonia were created in 1989.\n\nThe South Province initiated the development of the park in 1998 in response to increasing visitor numbers with the goals of protecting nature, educating visitors about the environment and of further attracting tourists. A \"Maison du Parc\" was thus inaugurated in 2002 at the main entrance, with an exhibition hall (containing a permanent display about the park since June 2003), a library, a conference room, a shop, archives, and storage rooms. Areas set up for camping and picnics were set up along the rivers, as well as a network of walking and cycling trails.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41125980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41125980", "title": "Bulgarian toponyms in Antarctica (Q)", "text": "Bulgarian toponyms in Antarctica (Q)\n\nA | B | C | D | E | F | G | H | I | J | K | L | M | N | O | P | Q | R | S | T | U | V | W | Y | Z\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "806290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=806290", "title": "Cockaigne", "text": "Cockaigne\n\nCockaigne or Cockayne is a land of plenty in medieval myth, an imaginary place of extreme luxury and ease where physical comforts and pleasures are always immediately at hand and where the harshness of medieval peasant life does not exist. Specifically, in poems like \"The Land of Cockaigne\", it is a land of contraries, where all the restrictions of society are defied (abbots beaten by their monks), sexual liberty is open (nuns flipped over to show their bottoms), and food is plentiful (skies that rain cheeses). Writing about Cockaigne was a commonplace of Goliard verse. It represented both wish fulfillment and resentment at the strictures of asceticism and death.\n\nWhile the first recorded uses of the word are the Latin \"Cucaniensis\", and the Middle English \"Cokaygne\", one line of reasoning has the name tracing to Middle French \"(pays de) cocaigne\" \"(land of) plenty\", ultimately adapted or derived from a word for a small sweet cake sold to children at a fair (\"OED\"). In Ireland it was mentioned in the \"Kildare Poems\" composed c. 1350. In Italian, the same place is called \"Paese della Cuccagna\"; the Flemish-Belgian equivalent is \"Luilekkerland\" (\"relaxed luscious, delicious land\"), translated from the Middle-Belgian word \"Cockaengen\", and the German equivalent is \"Schlaraffenland\". In Spanish an equivalent place is named \"Jauja\", after a rich mining region of the Andes, and \"País de Cucaña\" (\"fools' paradise\") may also signify such a place. From Swedish dialect \"lubber\" (\"fat lazy fellow\") comes \"Lubberland\", popularized in the ballad \"An Invitation to Lubberland\". \n\nIn the 1820s, the name \"Cockaigne\" came to be applied jocularly to London as the land of Cockneys (\"Cockney\" from a \"cock's egg\", an implausible creature; see also basilisk), though the two are not linguistically connected otherwise. The composer Edward Elgar used the word \"Cockaigne\" for his concert overture and suite evoking the people of London, \"Cockaigne (In London Town)\", Op. 40 (1901).\n\nThe Dutch villages of Kockengen and Koekange were named after Cockaigne. The surname Cockayne also derives from the mythical land, and was originally a nickname for an idle dreamer.\n\nLike Atlantis and El Dorado, the land of Cockaigne was a utopia. It was a fictional place where, in a parody of paradise, idleness and gluttony were the principal occupations. In \"Specimens of Early English Poets\" (1790), George Ellis printed a 13th-century French poem called \"The Land of Cockaigne\" where \"the houses were made of barley sugar and cakes, the streets were paved with pastry, and the shops supplied goods for nothing\"\n\nAccording to Herman Pleij, \"Dreaming of Cockaigne: Medieval Fantasies of the Perfect Life\" (2001):\n\nCockaigne was a \"medieval peasant’s dream, offering relief from backbreaking labor and the daily struggle for meager food.\"\n\nThe Brothers Grimm collected and retold the fairy tale in \"Das Märchen vom Schlaraffenland\" (\"The Tale About the Land of Cockaigne\").\n\nA Neapolitan tradition, extended to other Latin-culture countries, is the Cockaigne pole (Italian: cuccagna; Spanish: cucaña), a horizontal or vertical pole with a prize (like a ham) at one end. The pole is covered with grease or soap and planted during a festival. Then, daring people try to climb the slippery pole to get the prize. The crowd laughs at the often failed attempts to hold on to the pole.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8644951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8644951", "title": "Crivăț", "text": "Crivăț\n\nCrivăț () is a north-easterly wind in Moldavia, Dobruja, and the Bărăgan Plain parts of Romania. In the winter, it blows at speeds of up to 30–35 m/s (108–126 km/h, 67-78 mph), creating blizzard conditions.\n"}
{"id": "16190896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16190896", "title": "Daylight saving time in the United States", "text": "Daylight saving time in the United States\n\nDaylight saving time in the United States is the practice of setting the clock forward by one hour during the warmer part of the year, so that evenings have more daylight and mornings have less. Most areas of the United States observe daylight saving time (DST), the exceptions being Arizona (except for the Navajo, who do observe daylight saving time on tribal lands), Hawaii, and the overseas territories of American Samoa, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, and the United States Virgin Islands. The Uniform Time Act of 1966 established the system of uniform Daylight Saving Time throughout the US.\n\nIn the U.S., daylight saving time starts on the second Sunday in March and ends on the first Sunday in November, with the time changes taking place at 2:00 a.m. local time. With a mnemonic word play referring to seasons, clocks \"spring forward, fall back\"—that is, in springtime the clocks are moved forward from 2:00 a.m. to 3:00 a.m. and in fall they are moved back from 2:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m. Daylight saving time lasts for a total of 34 weeks (238 days) every year, about 65% of the entire year.\n\nThe following table lists recent past and near future starting and ending dates of daylight saving time in the United States:\n\nBenjamin Franklin proposed a form of daylight time in 1784. His essay, “An Economical Project for Diminishing the Cost of Light”, written to the editor of \"The Journal of Paris\", observed that Parisians could save on candles by getting out of bed earlier in the morning, making use of the natural morning light instead. Franklin's suggestion seems to have been more of a joke than a real proposal, and nothing came of it.\n\nDuring World War I, in an effort to conserve fuel, Germany began observing DST on May 1, 1916. The rest of Europe soon followed. The plan was not adopted in the United States until the Standard Time Act of March 19, 1918, which confirmed the existing standard time zone system and set summer DST to begin on March 31, 1918 (reverting October 27). The idea was unpopular and Congress abolished DST after the war, overriding President Woodrow Wilson's veto. DST became a local option and was observed in some states until World War II, when President Franklin Roosevelt instituted year-round DST, called \"War Time\", on February 9, 1942. It lasted until the last Sunday (the 30th) in September 1945. After 1945 many states and cities east of the Mississippi River (and mostly north of the Ohio and Potomac rivers) adopted summer DST.\n\nFrom 1945 to 1966 there was no federal law on daylight saving time, so localities could choose when it began and ended or drop it entirely. As of 1954, only California and Nevada had statewide DST west of the Mississippi, and only a few cities between Nevada and St. Louis. In the 1964 Official Railway Guide, 21 of the 48 contiguous states had no DST anywhere.\n\nBy 1962, the transportation industry found the lack of consistency confusing enough to push for federal regulation. The result was the Uniform Time Act of 1966 (P.L. 89-387). Beginning in 1967, the act mandated standard time within the established time zones and provided for advanced time: clocks would be advanced one hour beginning at 2:00 a.m. on the last Sunday in April and turned back one hour at 2:00 a.m. on the last Sunday in October. States were allowed to exempt themselves from DST as long as the entire state did so. If a state chose to observe DST, the time changes were required to begin and end on the established dates. In 1967, Arizona and Michigan became the first states to exempt themselves from DST (Michigan would begin observing DST in 1972). In 1972, the act was amended (P.L. 92-267), allowing those states split between time zones to exempt either the entire state or that part of the state lying within a different time zone. The newly created Department of Transportation (DOT) was given power to enforce the law. , the following states and territories are not observing DST: Arizona, Hawaii, American Samoa, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands.\n\nDuring the 1973 oil embargo by the Organization of Arab Petroleum Exporting Countries (OAPEC), in an effort to conserve fuel, Congress enacted a trial period of year-round DST (P.L. 93-182), beginning January 6, 1974, and ending April 27, 1975. The trial was hotly debated. Those in favor pointed to increased daylight hours in the summer evening: more time for recreation, reduced lighting and heating demands, reduced crime, and reduced automobile accidents. The opposition was concerned about children leaving for school in the dark. The act was amended in October 1974 (P.L. 93-434) to return to standard time for the period beginning October 27, 1974, and ending February 23, 1975, when DST resumed. When the trial ended in 1975, the country returned to observing summer DST (with the aforementioned exceptions).\n\nThe DOT, evaluating the plan of extending DST into March, reported in 1975 that \"modest overall benefits might be realized by a shift from the historic six-month DST (May through October) in areas of energy conservation, overall traffic safety and reduced violent crime.\" However, DOT also reported that these benefits were minimal and difficult to distinguish from seasonal variations and fluctuations in energy prices.\n\nCongress then asked the National Bureau of Standards (NBS, today NIST) to evaluate the DOT report. Its report, \"Review and Technical Evaluation of the DOT Daylight Saving Time Study\" (April 1976), found no significant energy savings or differences in traffic fatalities. It did find statistically significant evidence of increased fatalities among school-age children in the mornings during the four-month period January–April 1974 as compared with the same period (non-DST) of 1973. NBS stated that it was impossible to determine, what, if any, of this increase was due to DST. When this data was compared between 1973 and 1974 for the months of March and April, no significant difference was found in fatalities among school-age children in the mornings.\n\nIn 1986 Congress enacted P.L. 99-359, amending the Uniform Time Act by changing the beginning of DST to the first Sunday in April and having the end remain the last Sunday in October. These start and end dates were in effect from 1987 to 2006. The time was adjusted at 2:00 a.m. local time.\n\nBy the Energy Policy Act of 2005, daylight saving time (DST) was extended in the United States beginning in 2007. As from that year, DST begins on the second Sunday of March and ends on the first Sunday of November. In years when April 1 falls on Monday through Wednesday, these changes result in a DST period that is five weeks longer; in all other years the DST period is instead four weeks longer. In 2008 daylight saving time ended at 2:00 a.m. DST (0200) (1:00 a.m. ST) on Sunday, November 2, and in 2009 it began at 2:00 a.m. (3:00 a.m. DST) on Sunday, March 8.\n\nUnder Section 110 of the Act, the U.S. Department of Energy was required to study the impact of the 2007 DST extension no later than nine months after the change took effect. The report, released in October 2008, reported a nationwide electricity savings of 0.03% for the year of 2007.\n\nAn October 2008 study conducted by the University of California at Santa Barbara for the National Bureau of Economic Research found that the 2006 DST adoption in Indiana increased energy consumption in Indiana by an average of 1%. Although consumption for lighting dropped as a result of the DST adoption, consumption for heating and cooling increased by 2% to 4%. The cost to the average Indiana household of the DST adoption was determined to be $3.29 per year, for an aggregate cost of $1.7 million to $5.5 million per year.\n\nThe United States Chamber of Commerce has praised the extension of daylight saving under the 2005 law, which increased the amount of shopping and commerce from after work in evenings. In the golf industry, the group has noted exceptional increase in revenue of \"$200 million in additional sales of golf clubs and greens fees\". The extension of daylight saving has also had a notable impact on Halloween and candy sales. Wyoming Senator Michael Enzi and Michigan Representative Fred Upton advocated the extension from October into November especially to allow children to go trick-or-treating in more daylight. In some areas, the extension of daylight saving time in March and November has pushed back sunrise to as late as 8:30 am.\n\nUnder the Standard Time Act of 1918, as amended by the Uniform Time Act of 1966, moving a state or an area within a state from one time zone to another requires a regulation issued by DOT. The governor or state legislature may initiate a request for the state or any part of the state; the highest elected officials in the county may make a request for that county. The standard in the statute for such decisions is the convenience of commerce in that area. The convenience of commerce is defined broadly to consider such circumstances as the shipment of goods within the community; the origin of television and radio broadcasts; the areas where most residents work, attend school, worship, or receive health care; the location of airports, railway, and bus stations; and the major elements of the community's economy.\n\nAfter receiving a request for altering a time zone, DOT determines whether it meets the requirement of minimum statutory criteria before issuing a notice of proposed rulemaking, soliciting public comment and scheduling a public hearing. Usually the hearing is held in the area requesting the change so that all affected parties can be represented. After the close of the comment period, the comments are reviewed and appropriate final action taken. If the Secretary agrees that the statutory requirement has been met, the change is instituted, usually at the next changeover to or from DST.\n\nUnder the Uniform Time Act, moving an area on or off DST is accomplished through legal action at the state level. Some states require legislation while others require executive action such as a governor's executive order. Information on procedures required in a specific state may be obtained from that state's legislature or governor's office. Although it may exempt itself, if a state decides to observe DST, the dates of observance must comply with federal legislation.\n\nAlaska observes DST. Due to its high latitude, Alaska has nearly round-the-clock daylight during summer, and DST is seen by some Alaskans as unnecessary and a nuisance. Another issue is that the Alaskan mainland's single time zone, which approximates solar time in the capital, Juneau, leads to a large disparity between civil time and solar time for much of the state, with solar noon occurring as late as 2:10 p.m. in the population centers of Anchorage and Fairbanks, and as late as 3:23 p.m. in places such as Nome. In Fairbanks, for example, sunset occurs well after civil midnight in the summer. Others argue that ending daylight saving time will place Alaska as much as five hours from Eastern Daylight Time, making coordination of travel and phone conversations more difficult.\n\nIn March 2015 the Alaska Senate passed a bill, introduced by state senator Anna MacKinnon, to end daylight saving time. The Alaska House formed a sub-committee that was due to look into the issue during the 2016 legislative session.\n\nArizona observed DST in 1967 under the Uniform Time Act because the state legislature did not enact an exemption statute that year. In March 1968 the DST exemption statute was enacted and the state of Arizona has not observed DST since 1967. This is in large part due to an effort to conserve energy. Phoenix and Tucson are among the hottest U.S. metropolitan areas during the summer, resulting in more power usage from air conditioning units and evaporative coolers in homes and businesses. An extra hour of sunlight while people are active would cause people to run their cooling systems longer, thereby using more energy.\n\nThe Navajo Indian Reservation extends into Utah and New Mexico and does observe daylight saving time. The Hopi Reservation is entirely within the state of Arizona and is an enclave within the Navajo Indian Reservation, but does not observe DST.\n\nCalifornia voters passed Proposition 12 in 1949, approving DST in the state. In February 2017, California Assembly member Kansen Chu introduced A.B. 807, proposing to enable the legislature to eliminate DST in the state, or, if federal law allows, to adopt DST for the entire year. Chu then shelved his bill in September 2017. He then reintroduced A.B. 807 in 2018; it was approved by the California State Legislature, signed by Governor Jerry Brown, placed on the November 2018 state ballot and passed. If approved by Congress, California would be allowed to remain on DST all year.\n\nDaylight saving time is less useful in Florida compared to other states because its southern location leads to less variations in day length between winter and summer. Without DST, Miami, for instance, would experience similar sunrise and sunset times throughout the year to cities including Honolulu or Hong Kong, which have both abandoned DST for decades. There is opposition to DST in Florida. State senator Bill Posey introduced a bill in March 2008 to abolish daylight time in the state and keep Florida on year-round standard time. Because Florida straddles two time zones, the Florida legislature has the option of returning all or part of the state to standard time along time zone boundaries (i.e. placing the portion of the state in the Eastern time zone on standard time, while leaving the portion in the Central time zone on DST, so that the whole state had a common time). There are currently no states that keep daylight saving time year round.\n\nOn March 6, 2018, the Florida Senate approved the “Sunshine Protection Act” which would put Florida on permanent Daylight Saving Time year round, and Governor Rick Scott signed it March 23. Congress would need to amend the existing 1966 federal law to allow the change.\n\nHawaii has never observed daylight saving time under the Uniform Time Act, having opted out of the Act's provisions in 1967.\n\nBecause of Hawaii's tropical latitude, there is not a large variation in daylight length between winter and summer. Advancing the clock to UTC−9 (DST) in Hawaii would make sunrise times close to 7:00 a.m. even in June. Most of the inhabited islands are located close to the west end of the Hawaii-Aleutian time zone, but Oahu, Kauai, and Niihau are located more than 7 degrees west of the Hawaii-Aleutian time zone's meridian and should, theoretically, be located in the next time zone to the west. (Until about 1946 Hawaiian standard time was based on longitude 157.5 degrees west rather than 150 degrees.)\n\nOn April 26, 1933, the Territorial Legislature enacted a bill placing Hawaii on daylight saving time from the last Sunday in April (April 30 in that year) to the last Sunday in September, but the law was repealed three weeks later on May 21, 1933. During World War II between February 9, 1942 and September 30, 1945, Hawaiian Standard Time was advanced one hour to so-called \"Hawaiian War Time,\" effectively placing the territory on year-round daylight saving time. In both cases where DST was used, Hawaii used UTC−9:30 during DST as standard time was 30 minutes behind.\n\nFrom 1970 until 2006, most of Indiana in the Eastern Time Zone did not observe daylight saving time, but the entire state started to do so in April 2006 after eight counties in western Indiana were shifted from the Central Time Zone to the Eastern Time Zone. One goal for observing DST was to get more Indiana counties observing the same time zone; formerly, 77 counties observed EST, 5 observed EST/EDT (the EDT usage being unofficial only), and 10 observed CST/CDT. , Indiana has 12 counties observing Central Daylight Time while the remaining 80 counties observe Eastern Daylight Time. Those counties observing CST are in two groups: one near or in the Chicago metropolitan area, and the other around Evansville in the southwest corner of the state.\n\nIn 1967, the Michigan Legislature adopted a statute, Act 6 of the Public Acts of 1967, exempting the state from the observance of DST. The exemption statute was suspended on June 14, 1967, however, when the referendum was invoked. From June 14, 1967 until the last Sunday in October 1967, Michigan observed DST, and did so in 1968 as well. The exemption statute was submitted to the voters at the General Election held in November 1968, and, in a close vote, the exemption statute was sustained. As a result, Michigan did not observe DST in 1969, 1970, 1971, or 1972. (Radio station CKLW in Windsor, Ontario, just across the river from Detroit, was popular on both sides of the border and would often give both times on the air, \"e.g.\" \"It's 4:30 in Detroit and 5:30 in Windsor!\") In November 1972, an initiative measure, repealing the exemption statute, was approved by the voters. Michigan again observed DST in 1973, and has continued to do so since then.\n\nThe vast majority of Michigan is in the Eastern Time Zone. Only the Upper Peninsula counties that border Wisconsin (Gogebic, Iron, Dickinson, and Menominee) are in the Central Time Zone.\n\nIn 2015, the Nevada Senate passed Nevada Assembly Joint Resolution 4, which urged Congress to enact legislation allowing individual states to establish daylight saving time as the standard time in their respective states throughout the calendar year. This would mean that Nevada is on the same time as Arizona all year, but would be an hour ahead of California in the winter. The United States Congress has not yet enacted any enabling legislation in this regard.\n\nIn 2015, Rep. Elizabeth Scott (R-Monroe) filed a House bill to end DST in Washington, and a companion bill was filed in the Senate. She told a House committee that the semiannual time switches are not only inconvenient but lead to health problems and accidents due to lost sleep. She added that the bill to drop daylight saving time would reduce heart attacks, car wrecks, and work accidents found to increase with the sleep-schedule disruptions. A different Senate Bill would petition the federal government for year-round DST. The bills were defeated.\n\nAll U.S. insular territories with civilian government (American Samoa, Guam, Northern Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands) lie in the tropics and do not observe DST.\n\nWhile neighboring Samoa began observing DST in September 2010, the smaller American Samoa cannot legally follow because of the DST observation period mandated by the Uniform Time Act. This period is actually wintertime in this Southern Hemisphere territory.\n\nMany computer operating systems (such as Microsoft Windows, Linux, UNIX, and macOS) and programming languages (such as Java, perl, and most shell languages) allow a local time zone setting in the format of \"(standard time zone abbreviation)(UTC hour difference)(daylight saving time zone abbreviation)\". This allows programs and programming languages that must do calculations based on local time to more easily calculate differences between local time and UTC, as well as knowing whether calculations should be changed during daylight saving time. For example, a time zone setting of EST5EDT indicates that local time on the computer is 5 hours behind UTC and should be adjusted for daylight saving time.\n\nGeneral topic\n\nOfficial civil time distribution\n\nQuasi-governmental time distribution systems\n\n"}
{"id": "255578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=255578", "title": "Dobruja", "text": "Dobruja\n\nDobruja or Dobrudja (, transliterated: \"Dobrudzha\" or \"Dobrudža\"; ; ) is a historical region in Eastern Europe that has been divided since the 19th century between the territories of Bulgaria and Romania. It is situated between the lower Danube River and the Black Sea, and includes the Danube Delta, Romanian coast, and the northernmost part of the Bulgarian coast. The territory of Dobruja is made up of Northern Dobruja, which is part of Romania, and Southern Dobruja, which belongs to Bulgaria.\n\nThe territory of the Romanian region Dobrogea is organised as the counties of Constanța and Tulcea, with a combined area of 15,500 km (6,011 sq. miles) and a population of slightly less than 900 thousand. Its main cities are Constanța, Tulcea, Medgidia and Mangalia. Dobrogea is represented by dolphins in the coat of arms of Romania. \n\nThe Bulgarian region Dobrudzha is divided among the administrative regions of Dobrich and Silistra; the following villages of Razgrad Province: Konevo, Rainino, Terter and Madrevo; and the village General Kantardzhievo (Varna). This section has a total area of 7,565 km, with a combined population of some 310,000 people, the main towns being Dobrich and Silistra (regional seats).\n\nWith the exception of the Danube Delta, a marshy region located in its northeastern corner, Dobruja is hilly, with an average altitude of about 200–300 metres. The highest point is the Țuțuiatu (Greci) Peak in the Măcin Mountains, having a height of 467 m. The Dobrogea Plateau covers most of the Romanian part of Dobruja. The Ludogorie Plateau is found in Bulgaria. Lake Razelm is one of the most important lakes in Northern Dobruja.\n\nDobruja lies in the temperate continental climatic area; the local climate is determined by the influx of oceanic air from the northwest and northeast and continental air from the East European Plain. Dobruja's relatively level terrain and its bare location facilitate the influx of humid, warm air in the spring, summer and autumn from the northwest, as well as that of northern and northeastern polar air in the winter. The Black Sea also exerts an influence over the region's climate, particularly within 40–60 kilometres from the coast. The average annual temperatures range from 11 °C inland and along the Danube, to 11.8 °C on the coast and less than 10 °C in the higher parts of the plateau. The coastal region of Southern Dobruja is the most arid part of Bulgaria, with an annual precipitation of 450 millimetres.\n\nDobruja is a windy region once known for its windmills. There is wind during about 85–90% of all days; it usually comes from the north or northeast. The average wind speed is about twice higher than the average in Bulgaria. Due to the limited precipitation and the proximity to the sea, rivers in Dobruja are usually short and with low discharge. The region has a number of shallow seaside lakes with brackish water.\n\nThe most widespread opinion among scholars is that the origin of the term \"Dobruja\" is to be found in the Turkish rendition of the name of a 14th‑century Bulgarian ruler, despot Dobrotitsa. It was common for the Turks to name countries after one of their early rulers (for example, nearby Moldavia was known as \"Bogdan Iflak\" by the Turks, named after Bogdan I). Other etymologies have been considered, but never gained widespread acceptance. \n\nAbdolonyme Ubicini believed the name meant \"good lands\", derived from Slavic \"dobro\" (\"good\"), an opinion that was adopted by several 19th‑century scholars. This derivation appears to contrast with the usual 19th‑century description of Dobruja as a dry barren land; it has been explained as expressing the point of view of Ruthenes, who considered the Danube delta in the northern Dobruja as a significant improvement over the steppes to the North. I. A. Nazarettean combines the Slavic word with the Tatar \"budjak\" (\"corner\"), thus proposing the etymology \"good corner\". \n\nA version matching contemporaneous descriptions was suggested by Kanitz, who associated the name with the Bulgarian \"dobrice\" (\"rocky and unproductive terrain\"). According to Gheorghe I. Brătianu, the name is a Slavic derivation from the Turkic word \"Bordjan\" or \"Brudjars\", which referred to the Turkic Proto-Bulgarians; this term was also used by Arabic writers.\n\nOne of the earliest documented uses of the name can be found in the Turkish \"Oghuz-name\" narrative, dated to the 15th century, where it appears as \"Dobruja-éli\". The possessive suffix \"el-i\" indicated that the land was considered as belonging to Dobrotitsa (\"\" in the original Ottoman Turkish). The loss of the final particle is not unusual in the Turkish world, a similar evolution being observed in the name of Aydın, originally \"Aydın-éli\". Another early use is in the 16th‑century Latin translation of Laonicus Chalcondyles' \"Histories\", where the term \"Dobroditia\" is used for the original Greek \"Dobrotitsa's country\" (). In the 17th century, the region was referred to in more accounts, with renditions such as \"Dobrucia\", \"Dobrutcha\", \"Dobrus\", \"Dobruccia\", \"Dobroudja\", \"Dobrudscha\", and others being used by foreign authors.\n\nInitially, the name meant just the steppe of the southern region, between the forests around Babadag in the north and the Silistra–Dobrich–Balchik line in the south. Eventually, the term was extended to include the northern part and the Danube Delta. In the 19th century, some authors used the name to refer just to the territory between the southernmost branch of the Danube (St. George) in the north and the Karasu Valley (nowadays the Danube-Black Sea Canal) in the south.\n\nThe territory of Dobruja has been inhabited by humans since Middle and Upper Palaeolithic, as the remains at Babadag, Slava Rusă and Enisala demonstrate. In the Neolithic, the territory was occupied by members of the Hamangia culture (named after a village on the Dobrujan coast), Boian culture and Karanovo V culture. At the end of the fifth millennium BC, under the influence of some Aegeo-Mediterranean tribes and cultures, the Gumelniţa culture appeared in the region. In the Eneolithic, populations migrating from the north of the Black Sea, of the Kurgan culture, mixed with the previous population, creating the Cernavodă I culture. Under Kurgan II influence, the Cernavodă II culture emerged. Through the combination of the Cernavodă I and Ezero cultures, the Cernavodă III culture developed. The region had commercial contacts with the Mediterranean world since the 14th century BC, as proven by a Mycenaean sword discovered at Medgidia.\n\nDuring the early Iron Age (8th–6th centuries BC), there was increased differentiation of the local Getic tribes from the Thracian mass. In the second part of the 8th century BC, the first signs of commercial relations between the indigenous population and the Greeks appeared on the shore of the Halmyris Gulf (now the Sinoe Lake).\n\nIn 657/656 BC Ancient Greek colonists from Miletus founded a colony in the region: Histria. In the 7th and 6th centuries BC, more Greek colonies were founded on the Dobrujan coast (Callatis, Tomis, Mesembria, Dionysopolis, Parthenopolis, Aphrodisias, Eumenia etc.). In the 5th century BC these colonies were under the influence of the Delian League, passing in this period from oligarchy to democracy. In the 6th century BC, the first Scythian groups began to enter the region. Two Getae tribes, the \"Crobyzi\" and \"Terizi\", and the town of Orgame (Argamum) were mentioned on the territory of present Dobruja by Hekataios of Miletus (540–470 BC).\n\nIn 514/512 BC King Darius I of Persia subdued the Getae living in the region during his expedition against Scythians living north of the Danube. At about 430 BC, the Odrysian kingdom under Sitalkes extended its rule to the mouths of the Danube. In 429 BC, Getae from the region participated in an Odrysian campaign in Macedonia. In the 4th century BC, the Scythians brought Dobruja under their sway. In 341–339 BC, one of their kings, Atheas, fought against Histria, which was supported by a \"Histrianorum rex\" (probably a local Getic ruler). In 339 BC, King Atheas was defeated by the Macedonians under King Philip II, who afterwards extended his rule over Dobruja.\n\nIn 313 BC and again in 310–309 BC, the Greek colonies led by Callatis, supported by Antigonus I Monophthalmus, revolted against Macedonian rule. The revolts were suppressed by Lysimachus, the diadochus of Thrace, who also began a military expedition against Dromichaetes, the ruler of the Getae north of the Danube, in 300 BC. In the 3rd century BC, colonies on the Dobrujan coast paid tribute to the basilei Zalmodegikos and Moskon, who probably also ruled northern Dobruja. In the same century, Celts settled in the north of the region. In 260 BC, Byzantion lost the war with Callatis and Histria for the control of Tomis. At the end of the 3rd century BC and the beginning of the 2nd century BC, the Bastarnae settled in the area of the Danube Delta. Around 200 BC, the Thracian king Zoltes invaded the province several times, but was defeated by Rhemaxos, who became the protector of the Greek colonies.\n\nEarly Greek scholars such as Herodotus appear to have regarded the region as the a south-western extension of Scythia – a practice also followed in a 2nd Century BC inscription, recording a decree made in Histria, which refers to the region surrounding the Greek city as \"Scythia\". However, the toponym Μικρά Σκυθία \"Mikrá Skythia\", usually translated as Scythia Minor or Lesser Scythia, appears to have become the name for the specific region later known as Dobruja. The earliest known usage of the name \"Scythia Minor\" (\"Mikrá Skythia\") is found in Strabo's early \"Geography\" (1st century AD). The Greeks thus apparently distinguished it from \"Scythia Major\", which lay north of the Danube delta. \n\nAround 100 BC King Mithridates VI of Pontus extended his authority over the Greek cities in Dobruja. However, in 72–71 BC, during the Third Mithridatic War, these cities were occupied by the forces of Marcus Terentius Varro Lucullus, the Roman proconsul of Macedonia. A foedus was signed between the Greek colonies and the Roman Empire, but in 62–61 BC the colonies revolted. Gaius Antonius Hybrida intervened, but was defeated by Getae and Bastarnae near Histria. After 55 BC the Dacians under King Burebista conquered Dobruja and all the Greek colonies on the coast. Their rule ended in 44 BC.\n\nIn 28/29 BC Rholes, a Getic ruler from southern Dobruja, supported the proconsul of Macedonia, Marcus Licinius Crassus, in his action against the Bastarnae. Declared \"friend and ally of the Roman people\" by Octavian, Rholes helped Crassus in conquering the states of Dapyx (in central Dobruja) and Zyraxes (in the north of the region). Dobruja became part of the client kingdom of the Odrysians, while the Greek cities on the coast came under direct rule of the governor of Macedonia. In 12 AD and 15 AD, Getic armies succeeded in conquering the cities of Aegyssus and Troesmis for a short time, but Odrysian king Rhoemetalces I defeated them with the help of the Roman army.\n\nIn 15 AD the Roman province of Moesia was created, but Dobruja, under the name \"Ripa Thraciae\" remained part of the Odrysian kingdom. The Greek cities on the coast formed a \"praefectura orae maritimae\". In 46 AD Thracia became a Roman province and the territories of present Dobruja were absorbed into the province of Moesia. The Geto–Dacians invaded the region several times in the 1st century AD, especially between 62 and 70. In the same period, the base of the Roman Danube fleet (\"classis Flavia Moesica\") was moved to Noviodunum. The \"praefectura\" was annexed to Moesia in 86 AD. In the same year Domitian divided Moesia, Dobruja being included in the eastern part, \"Moesia Inferior\".\n\nIn the winter of 101–102 the Dacian king Decebalus led a coalition of Dacians, Carpians, Sarmatians and Burs in an attack against Moesia Inferior. The invading army was defeated by the Roman legions under Emperor Trajan on the Yantra river. (Later Nicopolis ad Istrum was founded there to commemorate the victory.) The invaders were also defeated near the modern village of Adamclisi, in the southern part of Dobruja. The latter victory was commemorated by the a monument, built in 109 at the site, and the founding of the city of Tropaeum. After 105, Legio XI Claudia and Legio V Macedonica were moved to Dobruja, at Durostorum and Troesmis, respectively.\n\nIn 118 Hadrian intervened in the region to calm a Sarmatian rebellion. In 170 Costoboci invaded Dobruja, attacking Libida, Ulmetum and Tropaeum. The province was generally stable and prosperous until the crisis of the Third Century, which led to the weakening of defences and numerous barbarian invasions. In 248 a coalition of Goths, Carpians, Taifali, Bastarnae and Hasdingi, led by Argaithus and Guntheric, devastated Dobruja. During the reign of Trajan Decius the province suffered greatly from the attack of Goths under King Cniva. Barbarian attacks followed in 258, 263 and 267. In 269 a fleet of allied Goths, Heruli, Bastarnae and Sarmatians attacked the cities on the coast, including Tomis. In 272 Aurelian defeated the Carpians north of the Danube and settled a part of them near Carsium. The same emperor put an end to the crisis in the Roman Empire, thus helping the reconstruction of the province.\n\nDuring the reign of Diocletian, Dobruja was organized administratively as a separate province, called Scythia, part of the Diocese of Thracia. Its capital city was Tomis. Diocletian transferred Legio II Herculia to Troesmis and Legio I Iovia to Noviodunum. In 331–332 Constantine the Great defeated the Goths who attacked the province. But Dobruja was devastated again by Ostrogoths in 384–386. Under the Roman emperors Licinius, Julian the Apostate, and Valens, the cities of the region were repaired or rebuilt.\n\nAfter the division of the Roman Empire, Dobruja was absorbed into the Eastern Roman Empire. Between 513 and 520, the region participated in a revolt against Anastasius I. Its leader, Vitalian, native of Zaldapa in Southern Dobruja, defeated the Byzantine general Hypatius near Kaliakra. During Justin I's rule, Antes and Slavs invaded the region, but Germanus Justinus defeated them. In 529, the Gepid commander Mundus repelled a new invasion by Bulgars and Antes. Kutrigurs and Avars invaded the region several times, until 561–562, when the Avars under Bayan I were settled south of the Danube as foederati. During the rule of Mauricius Tiberius, the Slavs devastated Dobruja, destroying the cities of Dorostolon, Zaldapa and Tropaeum. In 591/593, Byzantine general Priscus tried to stop invasions, attacking and defeating the Slavs under Ardagast in the north of the province. In 602 during the mutiny of the Byzantine army in the Balkans under Phocas, a large mass of Slavs crossed the Danube, settling south of the Danube. Dobruja remained under loose Byzantine control, and was reorganised during the reign of Constantine IV as \"Thema Scythia\".\n\nThe results of archaeological researches indicate that the Byzantine presence in Dobruja's mainland and on the banks of Danube was reduced in the end of the 6th century, under the pressure of the Migration Period. In the coastal fortifications on the southern bank of Danube, the latest Byzantine coin found dates from the time of the emperors Tiberius II Constantine (574–582) and Heraclius (610–641). After that period, all inland Byzantine cities were demolished by the invaders and abandoned. \n\nSome of the earliest Slavic settlements to the south of Danube have been discovered in Dobruja, near the villages of Popina, Garvăn and Nova Cherna. They have been dated to the end of the 6th and the beginning of the 7th centuries. These lands became the main zone of compact Bulgar settlement in the end of the 7th century.\n\nAccording to the peace treaty of 681, signed after the Bulgarian victory over Byzantines in the Battle of Ongala, Dobruja became part of the First Bulgarian Empire. Shortly after, the Bulgar founded the city of Pliska, which became the first Bulgarian capital, near the southern border of Dobruja. They rebuilt Madara as a major Bulgar pagan religious centre. According to the \"Bulgarian Apocryphal Chronicle\", from the 11th century, Bulgarian Tsar Ispor \"accepted the Bulgarian tsardom\", created \"great cities, Drastar on the Danube\", a \"great wall from Danube to the sea\", \"the city of Pliska\" and \"populated the lands of Karvuna\". \n\nAccording to Bulgarian historians, during the 7th–10th centuries, the region was fortified by construction of a large network of earthen and wooden strongholds and ramparts. Around the end of the 8th century, widespread building of new stone fortresses and defensive walls began. Romanian historians dispute attributing these walls to the Bulgarians, based on their interpretation of the construction system and archaeological evidence. The Bulgarians also reconstructed some of the ruined Byzantine fortresses (Kaliakra and Silistra in the 8th century, Madara and Varna in the 9th). According to Barnea, among other historians, during the following three centuries of Bulgarian domination, Byzantines still controlled the Black Sea coast and the mouths of Danube, and for short periods, even some cities. But Bulgarian archaeologists note that the last Byzantine coins found, which are considered a proof of Byzantine presence, date in Kaliakra from the time of Emperor Justin II (565–578), in Varna from the time of Emperor Heraclius (610–641), and in Tomis from Constantine IV's rule (668–685).\n\nAt the beginning of the 8th century, Justinian II visited Dobruja to ask Bulgarian Khan Tervel for military help. Khan Omurtag (815–831) built a \"glorious home on Danube\" and erected a mound in the middle of the distance between Pliska and his new building, according to his inscription kept in SS. Forty Martyrs Church in Veliko Tarnovo. The location of this edifice is unclear; the main theories place it at Silistra or at Păcuiul lui Soare. Many early medieval Bulgar stone inscriptions were found in Dobruja, including historical narratives, inventories of armament or buildings, and commemorative texts. During this period Silistra became an important Bulgarian ecclesiastical centre—an episcopate after 865 and seat of the Bulgarian Patriarch at the end of the 10th century. In 895, Magyar tribes from Budjak invaded Dobruja and northeastern Bulgaria. An old Slavic inscription, found at Mircea Vodă, mentions Zhupan Dimitri (Дѣимитрѣ жѹпанѣ), a local feudal landlord prominent in the south of the region in 943.\n\nWith financial encouragement from the Byzantine emperor, Nikephoros II Phocas, Sviatoslav I of Kiev agreed to assist the Byzantines in their war with the Bulgarians. Sviatoslav defeated the Bulgarians (led by Boris II) and proceeded to occupy the whole of northern Bulgaria. He occupied Dobruja in 968 and moved the capital of Kievan Rus' to Pereyaslavets, in the north of the region. Sviatoslav refused to turn his Balkan conquests over to the Byzantines, and the parties fell out as a result. So the Byzantines under John I Tzimisces reconquered Dobruja in 971 and included it in the theme 'Mesopotamia of the West' (Μεσοποταμια της Δυσεον).\n\nAccording to some historians, soon after 976 or in 986, the southern part of Dobruja was included in the Bulgarian state then ruled by Samuil. The northern part remained under Byzantine rule, being reorganised in an autonomous \"klimata\". Other historians are of the view that Northern Dobruja was reconquered by Bulgarians as well. In 1000, a Byzantine army commanded by Theodorokanos reconquered the whole of Dobruja, organizing the region as the Strategia of Dorostolon and, after 1020, as \"Paristrion\" (Paradounavon).\n\nTo prevent mounted attacks from the north, the Byzantines constructed three ramparts from the Black Sea down to the Danube, in the 10th–11th centuries. According to Bulgarian archaeologists and historians, these fortifications may have been built much earlier and were erected by the First Bulgarian Empire in response to the threat of Khazars' raids.\n\nFrom the 10th century, Byzantines accepted small groups of Pechenegs settling in Dobruja. In the spring of 1036, an invasion of the Pecheneg devastated large parts of the region, destroying the forts at Capidava and Dervent, and burning the settlement of Dinogeţia. In 1046 the Byzantines accepted the Pecheneg under Kegen settling in Paristrion as foederati. The Pecheneg dominated the region until 1059, when Isaac I Komnenos reconquered Dobruja.\n\nIn 1064, an invasion by the Oghuz Turks affected the region. During 1072 to 1074, when Nestor (the new strategos of Paristrion) was in Dristra, he found that the Pecheneg ruler, Tatrys, was leading a rebellion. In 1091, three autonomous, probably Pecheneg, rulers were mentioned in the Alexiad: Tatos (\"Τατοῦ\") or Chalis (\"χαλῆ\"), in the area of Dristra (probably the same person as Tatrys), and Sesthlav (\"Σεσθλάβου\") and Satza (\"Σατζά\") in the area of Vicina.\nThe Cumans moved into Dobruja in 1094 and were influential in the region until the advent of the Ottoman Empire. In 1187 the Byzantines lost control of Dobruja to the restored Bulgarian Empire. In 1241, the first Tatar groups, under Kadan, invaded Dobruja starting a century long history of turmoil in the region. Around 1263–64, Byzantine Emperor Michael VIII Palaeologus gave permission to Sultan Kaykaus II to settle in the area with a group of Seljuk Turks from Anatolia. A missionary Turkish mystic, Sarı Saltuk, was the spiritual leader of this group. His tomb in Babadag (which was named after him) is still a place of pilgrimage for Muslims.\nArab chronicles of the 13th century mentioned Dobrogea under the name “Şakji” and the Vlachs inhabitants under the names “al-Awalak” and “ulaqut” \nIn 1265, the Bulgarian Emperor Constantine Tikh Asen hired 20,000 Tatars to cross the Danube and attack Byzantine Thrace. On their way back, the Tatars forced most of the Seljuk Turks, including their chief Sarı Saltuk, to resettle in Kipchak (Cumania).\n\nIn the second part of the 13th century, the Turkic–Mongolian Golden Horde Empire continuously raided and plundered Dobruja. The inability of the Bulgarian authorities to cope with the numerous raids became the main reason for the uprising, led by Ivailo (1277–1280), that broke out in eastern Bulgaria. Ivailo's army defeated the Tatars, who were forced to leave the Bulgarian territory; he next outed Constantine Tikh's army, and Ivailo was crowned Emperor of Bulgaria.\n\nThe war with the Tatars continued. In 1278, after a new Tatar invasion in Dobruja, Ivailo was forced to retreat to the strong fortress of Silistra, where he withstood a three-month siege. In 1280 the Bulgarian nobility, which feared the growing influence of the peasant emperor, organised a coup. Ivailo had to flee to his enemy the Tatar Nogai Khan, who later killed him. In 1300 Toqta, the new Khan of the Golden Horde, ceded Bessarabia to Emperor Theodore Svetoslav.\n\nIn 1325, the Ecumenical Patriarch nominated Methodius as Metropolitan of Varna and Carvona. After this date, Balik/Balica is mentioned as a local ruler in Southern Dobruja. In 1346, he supported John V Palaeologus in his dispute for the Byzantine throne with John VI Cantacuzenus. He sent an army corps under his son Dobrotitsa/Dobrotici and his brother, Theodore, to help the mother of John Palaeologus, Anna of Savoy. For his bravery, Dobrotitsa received the title of \"strategos\" and married the daughter of megadux Apokaukos. After the reconciliation of the two pretenders, a territorial dispute broke out between the Dobrujan polity and the Byzantine Empire for the port of Midia. In 1347, at John V Palaeologus' request, Emir Bahud-din Umur, Bey of Aydin, led a naval expedition against Balik, destroying Dobruja's seaports. Balik and Theodore died during the confrontation, and Dobrotitsa became the new ruler.\n\nBetween 1352 and 1359, with the collapse of Golden Horde rule in Northern Dobruja, a new state appeared. It was controlled by Tatar prince Demetrius, who claimed to be the protector of the river mouths of the Danube.\n\nIn 1357 Dobrotitsa was mentioned as a \"despot\" ruling over a large territory, including the fortresses of Varna, Kozeakos (near Obzor), and Emona. In 1366, John V Palaeologus visited Rome and Buda, trying to gather military support for his campaigns. On his return, he was captured at Vidin by Ivan Alexander, Tsar of Tarnovo, who believed that the new alliances were directed against his realm. An anti-Ottoman crusade under Amadeus VI of Savoy, supported by the republics of Venice and Genoa, was diverted to free the Byzantine emperor. Dobrotitsa collaborated with the crusaders, and after the allies conquered several Bulgarian forts on the Black Sea, Ivan Alexander freed John and negotiated a peace agreement. Dobrotitsa's role in this conflict brought him numerous political advantages: his daughter married one of John V's sons, Michael, and his principality extended its control over some of the forts lost by the Bulgarians (Anchialos and Mesembria).\n\nIn 1368, after the death of prince Demetrius, Dobrotitsa was recognised as ruler by Pangalia and other cities on the right bank of the Danube. In 1369, together with Vladislav I of Wallachia, Dobrotitsa helped Prince Stratsimir to win back the throne of Vidin.\n\nBetween 1370 and 1375, allied with Venice, Dobritsia challenged Genoese power in the Black Sea. In 1376, he tried to impose his son-in law, Michael, as Emperor of Trebizond, but was unsuccessful. Dobrotitsa supported John V Palaeologus against his son Andronicus IV Palaeologus. In 1379, the Dobrujan fleet participated in the blockade of Constantinople, fighting with the Genoese fleet.\n\nIn 1386, Dobrotitsa died and was succeeded by Ivanko/Ioankos. That same year he accepted a peace agreement with Murad I and in 1387 signed a commercial treaty with Genoa. Ivanko was killed in 1388 during the expedition of Ottoman Grand Vizier Çandarli Ali Pasha against Tarnovo and Dristra. The expedition brought most of the Dobrujan forts under Turkish rule.\n\nIn 1388/1389 Dobruja (\"Terrae Dobrodicii\"—as mentioned in a document from 1390) and Dristra (\"Dârstor\") came under the control of Mircea the Elder, ruler of Wallachia, who defeated the Ottoman Grand Vizier.\n\nOttoman Sultan Bayezid I conquered the southern part of the territory in 1393, attacking Mircea one year later, but without success. In the spring of 1395 Mircea regained the lost Dobrujan territories, with the help of his Hungarian allies.\n\nThe Ottomans recaptured Dobruja in 1397 and ruled it to 1404, although in 1401 Mircea strongly defeated an Ottoman army.\n\nThe defeat of Sultan Beyezid I by Tamerlane at Ankara in 1402 opened a period of anarchy in the Ottoman Empire. Mircea took advantage of it to organise a new anti-Ottoman campaign: in 1403, he occupied the Genoese fort of Kilia at the mouths of the Danube. Thus in 1404, he could impose his authority on Dobruja. In 1416, Mircea supported the revolt against Sultan Mehmed I, led by Sheikh Bedreddin in the area of Deliorman, in Southern Dobruja.\n\nAfter Mircea's death in 1418, his son Mihail I fought against the amplified Ottoman attacks, eventually being killed in a battle in 1420. That year, the Sultan Mehmed I personally conducted the definitive conquest of Dobruja by the Turks. Wallachia kept only the mouths of the Danube, but not for a long duration.\n\nIn the late 14th century, German traveller Johann Schiltberger described these lands as follows:\n\nOccupied by the Turks in 1420, the region remained under Ottoman control until the late 19th century. Initially, it was organised as an \"udj\" (border province), included in the sanjak of Silistra, part of the Vilayet of Rumelia. Later, under Murad II or Suleiman I, the sanjak of Silistra and surrounding territories were organised as a separate Vilayet. In 1555, a revolt led by the \"false\" (\"düzme\") Mustafa, a pretender to the Turkish throne, broke out against Ottoman administration in Rumelia and rapidly spread to Dobruja, but was repressed by the beylerbey of Nigbolu. \n\nIn 1603 and 1612, the region suffered from the forays of Cossacks, who burnt down Isaķči and plundered Küstendje. The Russian Empire occupied Dobruja several times during the Russo-Turkish Wars — in 1771–1774, 1790–1791, 1809–1810, 1829 and 1853. The most violent invasion was that of 1829, which resulted in the depopulation of numerous villages and towns. The Treaty of Adrianople of 1829 ceded the Danube Delta to the Russian Empire. However, Russia was forced to return it to the Ottomans in 1856, after the Crimean War. In 1864 Dobruja was included in the vilayet of Tuna.\n\nDuring Ottoman rule, groups of Turk, Arab and Tatar peoples settled in the region, the latter especially between 1512 and 1514. During the reign of Peter I of Russia and Catherine the Great, Lipovans immigrated to the region of the Danube Delta. After the destruction of Zaporozhian Sich in 1775, Cossacks were settled in the area north of Lake Razim by the Turkish authorities (where they founded the Danubian Sich). They were forced to leave Dobruja in 1828. \n\nIn the second part of the nineteenth‑century, Ruthenians from the Austrian Empire also settled in the Danube Delta. After the Crimean War, a large number of Tatars were forcibly driven away from Crimea, immigrating to then-Ottoman Dobruja and settling mainly in the Karasu Valley in the centre of the region and around Bābā Dāgh. In 1864, Circassians fleeing from the Russian invasion of the Caucasus were settled in the wooded region near Bābā Dāgh. Germans from Bessarabia also founded colonies in Dobruja between 1840 and 1892.\n\nAccording to Bulgarian historian Liubomir Miletich, most Bulgarians living in Dobruja in 1900 were nineteenth-century settlers or their descendants. In 1850, the scholar Ion Ionescu de la Brad, wrote in a study on Dobruja, ordered by the Ottoman government, that Bulgarians came to the region \"in the last twenty years or so\". According to his study, there were 2,285 Bulgarian families (out of 8,194 Christian families) in the region, 1,194 of them in Northern Dobruja. Liubomir Miletich puts the number of Bulgarian families in Northern Dobruja in the same year at 2,097. According to the statistics of the Bulgarian Exarchate, before 1877 there were 9,324 Bulgarian families out of a total 12,364 Christian families in the Northern Dobruja. According to Russian knyaz Vladimir Cherkassky, chief of the Provisional Russian government in Bulgaria in 1877-1878, the Bulgarian population in Dobruja was larger than the Romanian one. However, count Shuvalov, the Russian representative to the Congress of Berlin, stated that Romania deserved Dobruja \"more than anybody else, because of its population\". In 1878, the statistics of the Russian governor of Dobruja, Bieloserkovitsch, showed a number of 4,750 Bulgarian \"family chiefs\" (out of 14,612 Christian family chiefs) in the northern half of the region.\n\nThe Christian religious organisation of the region was put under the authority of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church by a firman of the Sultan, promulgated on February 28, 1870. However, the ethnic Greeks and most Romanians in Northern Dobruja remained under the authority of the Greek Archdiocese of Tulča (founded in 1829).\n\nAfter the 1878 war, the Treaty of San Stefano awarded Dobruja to Russia and the newly established Principality of Bulgaria. The northern portion, held by Russia, was ceded to Romania in exchange for Russia obtaining territories in Southern Bessarabia, thereby securing a direct access to the mouths of the Danube. In Northern Dobruja, Romanians were the plurality. The population included a Bulgarian ethnic enclave in the northeast (around Babadag), as well as an important Muslim community (mostly Turks and Tatars) scattered around the region.\n\nThe southern portion, held by Bulgaria, was reduced the same year by the Treaty of Berlin. At the advice of the French envoy, a strip of land extended inland from the port of Mangalia (shown orange on the map) was ceded to Romania, since its southwestern corner contained a compact area of ethnic Romanians. The town of Silistra, located at the areas' most southwestern point, remained Bulgarian due to its large Bulgarian population. Romania subsequently tried to occupy the town as well, but in 1879 a new international commission allowed Romania to occupy only the fort \"Arab Tabia\", which overlooked Silistra, but not the town itself.\nAt the beginning of the Russo-Turkish War of 1877–1878, most of Dobruja's population was composed of ethnic Turks, Bulgarians and Tatars. During the war, a large part of the Muslim population was evacuated to Bulgaria and Turkey. After 1878, the Romanian government encouraged Romanians from other regions to settle in Northern Dobruja and accepted the return of some Muslim population displaced by the war. \n\nAccording to Bulgarian historians, after 1878 the Romanian church authorities took control over all local churches, with the exception of two in the towns of Tulcea and Constanţa, which managed to retain use of their Bulgarian Slavonic liturgy. Between 1879 and 1900, Bulgarians built 15 new churches in Northern Dobruja. After 1880, Italians from Friuli and Veneto settled in Greci, Cataloi and Măcin in Northern Dobruja. Most of them worked in the granite quarries in the Măcin Mountains, while some became farmers. The Bulgarian authorities encouraged the settling of ethnic Bulgarians in the territory of Southern Dobruja.\n\nIn May 1913, the Great Powers awarded Silistra and the area in a 3 km radius around it to Romania, at the Saint Petersburg Conference. In August 1913, after the Second Balkan War, Bulgaria lost Southern Dobruja (\"Cadrilater\") to Romania (See Treaty of Bucharest, 1913). With Romania's entry in World War I on the side of France and Russia, the Central Powers occupied all of Dobruja and gave the Cadrilater, as well as the southern portion of Northern Dobruja, to Bulgaria in the Treaty of Bucharest of 1918. This situation lasted for a short period. As the Allied Powers emerged victorious at the end of the war, Romania regained the lost territories in the Treaty of Neuilly of 1919. Between 1926 and 1938, about 30,000 Aromanians from Bulgaria, Macedonia, and Greece, were resettled in Southern Dobruja.\n\nIn 1923 the Internal Dobrujan Revolutionary Organisation (IDRO), a Bulgarian nationalist organisation, was established. Active in Southern Dobruja under different forms until 1940, the IDRO detachments fought against the widespread brigandage in the region, as well as the Romanian administration. Thus, while considered \"a terrorist organisation\" by the Romanian authorities, the IDRO was regarded by ethnic Bulgarians as a liberation movement. In 1925, part of the Bulgarian revolutionary committees formed the Dobrujan Revolutionary Organisation (DRO), which later became subordinated to the Communist Party of Romania. In contrast with the IDRO, which fought for the inclusion of the region in the Bulgarian state, the DRO requested the independence of Dobruja and its inclusion in a projected Federative Republic of the Balkans. The means used by DRO to attain its goals were also more peaceful.\n\nDuring World War II, Bulgaria regained Southern Dobruja in the September 1940 Axis-sponsored Treaty of Craiova, despite Romanian negotiators' insistence that Balchik and other towns should remain in Romania. As part of the treaty, the Romanian inhabitants (Aromanian refugee-settlers, settlers from other regions of Romania and the Romanians indigenous to the region) were forced to leave the regained territory, while the Bulgarian minority in the north was expelled to go to Bulgaria in a population exchange. The post-war Paris Peace Treaties of 1947 reaffirmed the 1940 border.\n\nIn 1948 and again in 1961–1962, Bulgaria proposed a border rectification in the area of Silistra, consisting mainly in the transfer of a Romanian territory containing the water source of that city. Romania made an alternative proposal that did not involve a territorial change and, ultimately, no rectification took place.\n\nIn Romania, 14 November is a holiday observed as Dobrogea Day.\n\nThe entire region of Dobruja has an area of 23,100 km and a population of around 1.2 million, of which just over two-thirds of the former and nearly three-quarters of the latter lie in the Romanian part.\n\nMajor cities are Constanța, Tulcea, Medgidia and Mangalia in Romania, and Dobrich and Silistra in Bulgaria.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9650224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9650224", "title": "Emergency Management Information System", "text": "Emergency Management Information System\n\nEmergency Management Information System (EMIS) is a computer database for disaster response that provides graphical, real-time information to responders.\n\nFour phases of an emergency are Preparedness, Risk Mitigation, Response and Recovery. An EMIS shall enable emergency managers or any emergency stakeholder (affected civilians, police, fireman, Non Government Organizations (NGO), etc.) make their required activities in any phase of an emergency in an easy and speedy way. \n\n\n\nAn EMIS interacts with many other early alert systems and communicates with many legacy systems. \n\n"}
{"id": "1321361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1321361", "title": "Emerging market", "text": "Emerging market\n\nAn emerging market is a country that has some characteristics of a developed market, but does not satisfy standards to be termed a developed market. This includes countries that may become developed markets in the future or were in the past. The term \"frontier market\" is used for developing countries with smaller, riskier, or more illiquid capital markets than \"emerging\". The economies of China and India are considered to be the largest emerging markets. According to \"The Economist\", many people find the term outdated, but no new term has gained traction. Emerging market hedge fund capital reached a record new level in the first quarter of 2011 of $121 billion. The four largest emerging and developing economies by either nominal or PPP-adjusted GDP are the BRIC countries (Brazil, Russia, India and China).\n\nIn the 1970s, \"less developed countries\" (LDCs) was the common term for markets that were less \"developed\" (by objective or subjective measures) than the developed countries such as the United States, Japan, and those in Western Europe. These markets were supposed to provide greater potential for profit but also more risk from various factors like patent infringement. This term was replaced by \"emerging market\". The term is misleading in that there is no guarantee that a country will move from \"less developed\" to \"more developed\"; although that is the general trend in the world, countries can also move from \"more developed\" to \"less developed\".\n\nOriginally coined in 1981 by then World Bank economist Antoine Van Agtmael, the term is sometimes loosely used as a replacement for \"emerging economies\", but really signifies a business phenomenon that is not fully described by or constrained Sherzodbek Safarov; such countries are considered to be in a transitional phase between developing and developed status. Examples of emerging markets include many countries in Africa, most countries in Eastern Europe, some countries of Latin America, some countries in the Middle East, Russia and some countries in Southeast Asia. Emphasizing the fluid nature of the category, political scientist Ian Bremmer defines an emerging market as \"a country where politics matters at least as much as economics to the markets\".\n\nThe research on emerging markets is diffused within management literature. While researchers including, George Haley, Vladimir Kvint, Hernando de Soto, Usha Haley, and several professors from Harvard Business School and Yale School of Management have described activity in countries such as India and China, how a market emerges is little understood.\n\nIn 2009, Dr. Kvint published this definition: \"Emerging market country is a society transitioning from a dictatorship to a free-market-oriented-economy, with increasing economic freedom, gradual integration with the Global Marketplace and with other members of the GEM (Global Emerging Market), an expanding middle class, improving standards of living, social stability and tolerance, as well as an increase in cooperation with multilateral institutions\"\nIn 2008 Emerging Economy Report, the Center for Knowledge Societies defines Emerging Economies as those \"regions of the world that are experiencing rapid informationalization under conditions of limited or partial industrialization.\" It appears that emerging markets lie at the intersection of non-traditional user behavior, the rise of new user groups and community adoption of products and services, and innovations in product technologies and platforms.\n\nMore critical scholars have also studied key emerging markets like Mexico and Turkey. Thomas Marois (2012, 2) argues that financial imperatives have become much more significant and has developed the idea of 'emerging finance capitalism' - an era wherein the collective interests of financial capital principally shape the logical options and choices of government and state elites over and above those of labor and popular classes.\n\nJulien Vercueil recently proposed an pragmatic definition of the \"emerging economies\", as distinguished from \"emerging markets\" coined by an approach heavily influenced by financial criteria. According to his definition, an emerging economy displays the following characteristics:\n\n\nAt the beginning of the 2010s, more than 50 countries, representing 60% of the world's population and 45% of its GDP, matched these criteria. Among them, the BRICs.\nThe term \"rapidly developing economies\" is being used to denote emerging markets such as The United Arab Emirates, Chile and Malaysia that are undergoing rapid growth.\n\nIn recent years, new terms have emerged to describe the largest developing countries such as BRIC that stands for Brazil, Russia, India, and China, along with \"BRICET\" (BRIC + Eastern Europe and Turkey), \"BRICS\" (BRIC + South Africa), \"BRICM\" (BRIC + Mexico), MINT (Mexico, Indonesia, Nigeria and Turkey), Next Eleven (Bangladesh, Egypt, Indonesia, Iran, Mexico, Nigeria, Pakistan, the Philippines, South Korea, Turkey, and Vietnam) and CIVETS (Colombia, Indonesia, Vietnam, Egypt, Turkey and South Africa). These countries do not share any common agenda, but some experts believe that they are enjoying an increasing role in the world economy and on political platforms.\n\nLists of emerging (or developed) markets vary; guides may be found in such investment information sources as \"EMIS\" (a Euromoney Institutional Investor Company), \"The Economist\", or market index makers (such as MSCI).\n\nIn an Opalesque.TV video, hedge fund manager Jonathan Binder discusses the current and future relevance of the term \"emerging markets\" in the financial world. Binder says that in the future investors will not necessarily think of the traditional classifications of \"G10\" (or G7) versus \"emerging markets\". Instead, people should look at the world as countries that are fiscally responsible and countries that are not. Whether that country is in Europe or in South America should make no difference, making the traditional \"blocs\" of categorization irrelevant. Guégan \"et al.\" (2014) also discuss the relevance of the terminology \"emerging country\" comparing the credit worthiness of so-called emerging countries to so-called developed countries. According to their analysis, depending on the criteria used, the term may not always be appropriate.\n\nThe 10 \"Big Emerging Markets\" (BEM) economies are (alphabetically ordered): Argentina, Brazil, China, India, Indonesia, Mexico, Poland, South Africa, South Korea and Turkey. Egypt, Iran, Nigeria, Pakistan, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Taiwan, and Thailand are other major emerging markets.\n\nNewly industrialized countries are emerging markets whose economies have not yet reached developed status but have, in a macroeconomic sense, outpaced their developing counterparts.\n\nIndividual investors can invest in emerging markets by buying into emerging markets or global funds. If they want to pick single stocks or make their own bets they can do it either through ADRs (American depositor Receipts - stocks of foreign companies that trade on US stock exchanges) or through exchange traded funds (exchange traded funds or ETFs hold basket of stocks). The exchange traded funds can be focused on a particular country (e.g., China, India) or region (e.g., Asia-Pacific, Latin America).\n\nVarious sources list countries as \"emerging economies\" as indicated by the table below.\n\nA few countries appear in every list (BRICS, Mexico, Turkey). Indonesia and Turkey are categorized with Mexico and Nigeria as part of the MINT economies. While there are no commonly agreed upon parameters on which the countries can be classified as \"Emerging Economies\", several firms have developed detailed methodologies to identify the top performing emerging economies every year\n\nIn November 2010, BBVA Research introduced a new economic concept, to identify key emerging markets.\nThis classification is divided into two sets of developing economies.\n\nAs of March 2014, the groupings are as follows:\n\nEAGLEs (emerging and growth-leading economies): Expected Incremental GDP in the next 10 years to be larger than the average of the G7 economies, excluding the US.\nNEST: Expected Incremental GDP in the next decade to be lower than the average of the G6 economies (G7 excluding the US) but higher than Italy’s.\nOther emerging markets\nThe Emerging Market Bond Index Global (EMBI Global) by J.P. Morgan was the first comprehensive EM sovereign index in the market, after the EMBI+. It provides full coverage of the EM asset class with representative countries, investable instruments (sovereign and quasi-sovereign), and transparent rules.\nThe EMBI Global includes only USD-denominated emerging markets sovereign bonds and uses a traditional, market capitalization weighted method for country allocation. As of March end 2016, the EMBI Global's market capitalization was $692.3bn.\n\nFor country inclusion, a country’s GNI per capita must be below the Index Income Ceiling (IIC) for three consecutive years to be eligible for inclusion to the EMBI Global. J.P. Morgan defines the Index Income Ceiling (IIC) as the GNI per capita level that is adjusted every year by the growth rate of the World GNI per capita, Atlas method (current US$), provided by the World Bank annually. An existing country may be considered for removal from the index if its GNI per capita is above the Index Income Ceiling (IIC) for three consecutive years as well as the country’s long term foreign currency sovereign credit rating (the available ratings from all three agencies: S&P, Moody’s & Fitch) is A-/A3/A- (inclusive) or above for three consecutive years.\n\nJ.P. Morgan has introduced what is called an “Index Income Ceiling” (IIC), defined as the income level that is adjusted every year by the growth rate of the World GNI per capita, provided by the World Bank as “GNI per capita, Atlas method (current US$) annually.” Once a country has GNI per capita below or above the IIC level for three consecutive years, the country eligibility will be determined.\n\nThe Emerging Markets Index by MasterCard is a list of the top 65 cities in emerging markets. The following countries had cities featured on the list (as of 2008):\nCountries with cities included in the Emerging Markets Index 2008 by Continent\n\"Global Growth Generators\", or 3G (countries), is an alternative classification determined by Citigroup analysts as being countries with the most promising growth prospects for 2010-2050. These consist of Indonesia, Egypt, seven other emerging countries, and two countries not previously listed before, specifically Iraq and Mongolia. There has been disagreement about the reclassification of these countries, among others, for the purpose of acronym creation as was seen with the BRICS.\n\nEstimating the demand for products or services in emerging markets and developing economies can be complex and challenging for managers. These countries have unique commercial environments and may be limited in terms of reliable data, market research firms, and trained interviewers. Consumers in some of these countries may consider surveys an invasion of privacy. Survey respondents may try to please researchers by telling them what they want to hear rather than providing honest answers to their questions. However some companies have dedicated their entire business units for understanding the dynamics of emerging markets owing to their peculiarity\n\nThe following table lists the 20 largest countries by GDP (nominal) and GDP (PPP) in their respective peak year. Members of the G-20 major economies are in bold.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23312277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23312277", "title": "Epicormic shoot", "text": "Epicormic shoot\n\nAn epicormic shoot is a shoot growing from an epicormic bud, which lies underneath the bark of a trunk, stem, or branch of a plant.\n\nEpicormic buds lie dormant beneath the bark, their growth suppressed by hormones from active shoots higher up the plant. Under certain conditions, they develop into active shoots, such as when damage occurs to higher parts of the plant, or light levels are increased following removal of nearby plants. Epicormic buds and shoots occur in many woody species, but are absent from many others, such as most conifers.\n\nHuman horticultural practices that exploit epicormic growth rely on plants that have epicormic budding capabilities for regenerative function in response to crown damage, such as through wind or fire.\n\nEpicormic shoots are the means by which trees regrow after coppicing or pollarding, where the tree's trunk or branches are cut back on a regular cycle. These forestry techniques cannot be used on species which do not possess strong epicormic growth abilities.\n\nPruning leads to growth of suppressed shoots below the cut – these may be from epicormic buds, but they may also be other growth, such as normal buds or small shoots which are only partly suppressed.\n\nAs one of their responses to frequent bushfires which would destroy most other plants, many Eucalypt trees found widely throughout Australia have extensive epicormic buds which sprout following a fire, allowing the vegetative regeneration of branches from their trunks. These epicormic buds are highly protected, set deeper beneath the thick bark than in other tree species, allowing both the buds and vascular cambium to be insulated from the intense heat. It should however be noted that not all eucalypt trees possess this means of vegetative recovery, and the ability of a tree to survive and re-sprout depends on many factors, such as fire intensity, scorch height, and tree height, species, age, and size. Jarrah trees, found in the south-west of Western Australia, have epicormic buds which are activated after a bushfire or other extreme conditions.\n\nThe mediterranean \"Quercus suber\" (cork oak) resprouts from epicormic buds after fire.\n\nDogwood trees which are susceptible to a fungal infection known as dogwood anthracnose (\"Discula destructiva\") will sometimes send out epicormic shoots when they are dying from the disease. Similarly, ash trees may develop epicormic shoots when infested by the emerald ash borer.\n\nEpicormic shoots can be used in mass propagation of oak trees.\n\nThe long-lived \"Pseudotsuga menziesii\" forms epicormic shoots not in response to damage but as a means of forming growth on existing branches. The epicormic branching pattern has been observed to six iterations.\n\n"}
{"id": "32039612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32039612", "title": "Fiua", "text": "Fiua\n\nFiua is a village in Wallis and Futuna. It is located in Sigave District on the northwestern coast of Futuna Island. Its population according to the 2008 census was 322 people.\n"}
{"id": "533133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=533133", "title": "Index of geology articles", "text": "Index of geology articles\n\nThis is a list of all articles related to geology that cannot be readily placed on the following subtopic pages:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24864343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24864343", "title": "Irene Fischer", "text": "Irene Fischer\n\nIrene Kaminka Fischer (born July 27, 1907 in Vienna, died October 22, 2009 in Boston) was a mathematician, geodesist, National Academy of Engineering Member; Fellow International Geophysical Union, Inductee of the National Imagery and Mapping Agency Hall of Fame. Fischer became one of two internationally known women scientists in the field of geodesy during the golden age of the Mercury and Apollo moon missions. Her Mercury Datum, or Fischer Ellipsoid 1960 and 1968, as well as her work on the lunar parallax, were instrumental in conducting these missions. \"In his preface to the ACSM publication, Fischer's former colleague, Bernard Chovitz, referred to her as one of the most renowned geodesists of the third quarter of the twentieth century. Yet this fact alone makes her one of the most renowned geodesists of all times, because, according to Chovitz, the third quarter of the twentieth century witnessed \"the transition of geodesy from a regional to a global enterprise.\"\n\nBorn and educated in Vienna, Austria, she studied descriptive and projective geometry at the Technical University of Vienna and mathematics at the University of Vienna. Her teachers Moritz Schlick and Hans Hahn were among the luminaries of the Vienna Circle; and her fellow students included physicist Victor Weisskopf, sociologist Paul Lazarsfeld, and social psychologist Marie Jahoda. Her father, Rabbi , was head of the Maimonides Institute, and regularly led high holiday services at the famed Vienna Musikverein. He worked for the Alliance Israélite Universelle investigating pogroms in Eastern Europe and raised money in the U.S. and Western Europe to help victims.\n\nIn 1931 she married historian and geographer Eric Fischer, who helped introduce American, as distinct from British, history to Vienna. The Fischer family established and ran the 1843-founded Vienna Israelitische Kinderbewahranstalt, the first professional kindergarten and kindergarten teacher training school in Vienna, a place that also became a refuge for immigrants to Vienna from Eastern Europe.\n\nIn 1939, the Fischers, with their young daughter, Gay, fled Nazi Austria, traveling by rail to Italy, by boat to Palestine and in 1941 by boat around East Africa and the Cape of Good Hope to Boston, where they lived with Eric Fischer's sister, mother, and brother in law, the physician Otto Ehrentheil and their two daughters. Looking for jobs, Irene Fischer first worked as a seamstress’ assistant, then she graded blue books for Wassily Leontief at Harvard and for Norbert Wiener at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT). She also worked on stereoscopic projective geometry trajectories for John Rule at MIT. She taught mathematics at Brown and Nichols Preparatory School in Cambridge, and then at Sidwell Friends in Washington, D.C.\n\nAfter World War II, and after her son, Michael, born in 1946, had reached school age, she found a job at the then Army Map Service, now the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency and the Army Geospatial Center in Potomac, Md., working under John A. O'Keefe in the Geodesy Branch and rising through the ranks to become the chief. Her twenty-five-year career at AMS, working on what became the World Geodetic System, produced over 120 scientific publications. On the side, she published a high school geometry textbook in 1965 one of her many endeavors as an educator. After retiring in 1975, she wrote a memoir of her scientific career that was first serialized in the ACSM Bulletin (an official publication of five surveying and mapping professional organizations, 2004 – 06) covering the field of geodesy in the years 1951–1975, and discussing doing science in a man’s world in a government bureaucracy. It was published as a book in 2005.\n\nAt the very beginning of her career in mathematics and geodesy, Dr. Fischer had quickly taught herself the basics of geodetic tables, datums, transformations, gravity studies, astronomy, long lines, flare triangulation, and guided missile ballistics. Her updates to geodetic science helped determine the parallax of the moon. Irene Fischer was also intrigued by research into post glacial uplift, and her geoid studies went hand in hand with investigations of the lingering effects of the last ice age.\n\nDr. Fischer disagreed with the established figure for the oblateness of the earth (the fraction by which the polar axis is foreshortened by the equatorial radius), which had remained unchallenged since 1924. She was forbidden to use her updated figures in her own work because that result was in disagreement with the accepted literature. However, after the flight of the first satellites, she was vindicated by the data and observations from the instruments, and she was allowed to amend her previous works with her newly derived figures. In commenting on the lack of faith others put on her research, Dr. Fischer goodheartedly quipped that the satellites had not accepted the accepted literature, either.\n\nA pioneer during a time when there were few women in surveying, in 1967, Dr. Fischer was the first Army Map Service employee, and only the third woman ever, to receive the Distinguished Civilian Service Award. Dr. Fischer was internationally known for her many publications and presentations on the size and shape of the earth, including the Department of Defense manual, “Latitude Functions Fischer 1960 Ellipsoid.”\n\nDr. Fischer wrote an autobiography (published 2005), entitled, “Geodesy? What’s That? My Personal Involvement in the Age-Old Quest for the Size and Shape of the Earth, With a Running Commentary on Life in a Government Research Office.” In addition, Dr. Fischer has written more than 120 other technical reports, articles and books in her fields of expertise, and many of her significant government reports are still classified today.\n\nWinner of many Federal Government service awards, Fischer was awarded an honorary degree by the University of Karlsruhe, elected to the National Academy of Engineering, elected Fellow of the International Geophysical Union, and inducted into the National Imagery and Mapping Agency (NIMA) Hall of Fame, and the Learning Center at the new campus of the National Geospatial Intelligence Agency has been named in her honor.\n\nShe and her family were active for many years at Temple Israel in Silver Spring, Md., where she also taught an adult class in basic Hebrew, and was an active member of a forty-year-long chavura (discussion group). When she moved to Rockville, Md., she joined Congregation Beth Israel and endowed a Biblical archeology lecture series in her husband’s memory at the Rockville Jewish Community Center. In Israel, where many family members live, she and her husband endowed fellowships to a technical college. In 2001 she moved back to Brighton, Mass., three blocks from where she had first lived as an immigrant in 1941. In 2007 she celebrated her 100th birthday, and her children told the packed and rapt audience of her retirement community about her career. She is survived by her daughter Gay Fischer of Oberlin, Ohio, her son Michael M.J. Fischer and daughter-in-law Susann L. Wilkinson of Somerville, Mass., and many nephews and nieces, the children and grandchildren of her two brothers in Israel, and of her husband’s sister in New England.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "340947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=340947", "title": "Jiuquan Satellite Launch Center", "text": "Jiuquan Satellite Launch Center\n\nJiuquan Satellite Launch Center (JSLC; ) is a Chinese space vehicle launch facility (spaceport) located in the Gobi desert, Inner Mongolia. It is part of the Dongfeng Aerospace City (Base 10). Although the facility is geographically located within Ejin Banner of Inner Mongolia's Alxa League, it is named after the nearest city, Jiuquan in Gansu Province.\n\nIt was founded in 1958, the first of China's four spaceports. More Chinese launches have occurred at Jiuquan than anywhere else. As with all Chinese launch facilities it is remote and generally closed to foreigners.\n\nThe Satellite Launch Center is a part of Dongfeng space city (), also known as \"Base 10\" (十号基地) or \"Dongfeng base\" (东风基地), which also includes PLAAF test flight facilities, a space museum and a martyr's cemetery (东风烈士陵园).\n\nJSLC is usually used to launch vehicles into lower and medium orbits with large orbital inclination angles, as well as testing medium to long-range missiles. Its facilities are state of the art and provide support to every phase of a satellite launch campaign. The site includes the Technical Center, the Launch Complex, the Launch Control Center, the Mission Command and Control Center and various other logistical support systems.\n\nThe center covers 2800 km² and may have housing for as many as 20,000 people. The facilities and launch support equipment were likely modelled on Soviet counterparts and the Soviet Union has likely provided technical support to Jiuquan.\n\nThe launch center has been the focus of many of China's ventures into space, including their first satellite Dong Fang Hong 1 in 1970, and their first manned space mission \"Shenzhou 5\" on 15 October 2003.\n\nShenzhou 6, the second human spaceflight of China, launched on 12 October 2005 on a Long March rocket from JSLC.\n\nShenzhou 7, the third human spaceflight mission of the Chinese space program, was launched from JSLC on 25 September 2008 by a Long March 2F (CZ-2F) rocket. The mission, which included an extra-vehicular activity (EVA) carried out by crewmembers Zhai Zhigang and Liu Boming, marked the commencement of the second phase of the Chinese government's Project 921.\n\nChina's fourth crewed spaceflight, Shenzhou 9, launched from JSLC on 16 June 2012 at 18:37 local time (10:37 GMT). The 13-day mission included China's first female astronaut and docked with the country's Tiangong-1 space station module on Monday, 18 June 2012.\n\nIn August 2016, China launched the first quantum communication satellite, the \"Quantum Experiments at Space Scale\", from the Center.\n\nIn August 2018, Chinese private rocket manufacturing startups i-Space and OneSpace launched sub-orbital rockets from the center.\n\nThe launch pads at Launch Area 2 are located at approximately 41.308833° north, 100.316512° east (north pad) and 41.306143° north, 100.313229° east (south pad).\nLaunch Area 3 is approximately 2.7 km south of Launch Area 2. The launch pads are located at approximately 41.283190° north, 100.304706° east (north pad) and 41.280457° north, 100.304582° east (south pad).\nLaunch Area 4 is approximately 37.9 km south of Launch Area 3. The launch pads are located at approximately 40.960671° north, 100.298186° east (north pad) and 40.957893° north, 100.290944° east (south pad).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55470659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55470659", "title": "Lapovac", "text": "Lapovac\n\nLapovac is a village in Croatia, under the Slunj township, in Karlovac County.\n"}
{"id": "23887762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23887762", "title": "List of Arab entrepreneurship initiatives", "text": "List of Arab entrepreneurship initiatives\n\nArab entrepreneurship initiatives: this is an alphabetical list of major, active, multi-year initiatives taken to promote entrepreneurship in Arab-majority countries. It includes private-sector, government, NGO and INGO initiatives.\n\n\n\nGlobal Innovation through Science and Technology (GIST) initiative\n\nGlobal Innovation through Science and Technology (GIST) initiative\n\n\n\n\nGlobal Innovation through Science and Technology (GIST) initiative\n\n\n\n\nStars of Science\n\n(KAUST runs startup accelerators including the Hikma IP-based Startup Accelerator and New Ventures Accelerator) \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "163680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=163680", "title": "List of Bailiffs of Guernsey", "text": "List of Bailiffs of Guernsey\n\nThe Bailiwick of Guernsey is a British crown dependency off the coast of France.\n\nThis is a list of holders of the post of Bailiff of Guernsey.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7264401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7264401", "title": "List of Bermuda-related topics", "text": "List of Bermuda-related topics\n\nThe following is an outline of topics related to the British Overseas Territory of the Bermuda Islands.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nPrivate Schools\nPublic Primary Schools\nPublic Middle Schools\n\nAnglican Church of Bermuda\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58531125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58531125", "title": "List of Upstart Crow episodes", "text": "List of Upstart Crow episodes\n\nThe following is a list of episodes for the British sitcom \"Upstart Crow\", that began airing on BBC Two from 9 May 2016.\n\n<onlyinclude></onlyinclude>\n\nAll episodes of series 2 were made available through BBC iPlayer on 11 September 2017.\n"}
{"id": "47045796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47045796", "title": "List of defunct airlines of Cambodia", "text": "List of defunct airlines of Cambodia\n\nThis is a llist of defunct airlines of Cambodia:\n"}
{"id": "10496737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10496737", "title": "List of impact craters in Asia and Russia", "text": "List of impact craters in Asia and Russia\n\nThis list includes all 31 confirmed impact craters in Asia and Russia as listed in the Earth Impact Database. These features were caused by the collision of large meteorites or comets with the Earth. For eroded or buried craters, the stated diameter typically refers to an estimate of original rim diameter, and may not correspond to present surface features.\n\nFor additional geographic grouping, non-Siberian Russian craters include the region's federal district. \n\nThe following craters are officially considered \"unconfirmed\" because they are not listed in the Earth Impact Database. Due to stringent requirements regarding evidence and peer-reviewed publication, newly discovered craters or those with difficulty collecting evidence generally are known for some time before becoming listed. However, entries on the unconfirmed list could still have an impact origin disproven.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11357283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11357283", "title": "List of mammals of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines", "text": "List of mammals of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines\n\nThis is a list of the mammal species recorded in Saint Vincent and the Grenadines. These are the mammal species in Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, of which 0 are critically endangered, 1 is endangered, 2 are vulnerable, and 0 are near-threatened. One species is classified as extinct.\n\nThe following tags are used to highlight each species' conservation status as assessed by the IUCN:\nSome species were assessed using an earlier set of criteria. Species assessed using this system have the following instead of Near Threatened and Least Concern categories:\n\nSirenia is an order of fully aquatic, herbivorous mammals that inhabit rivers, estuaries, coastal marine waters, swamps, and marine wetlands. All four species are endangered.\n\n\nRodents make up the largest order of mammals, with over 40 percent of mammalian species. They have two incisors in the upper and lower jaw which grow continually and must be keep short by gnawing. Most rodents are small though the capybara can weigh up to 45 kg (100 lb).\n\n\nThe bats' most distinguishing feature is that their forelimbs are developed as wings, making them the only mammals in the world naturally capable of flight. Bat species account for about 20% of all mammals.\n\n\nThe order Cetacea includes whales, dolphins and porpoises. They are the mammals most fully adapted to aquatic life with a spindle-shaped nearly hairless body, protected by a thick layer of blubber, and forelimbs and tail modified to provide propulsion underwater.\n\n\nThere are over 260 species of carnivores, the majority of which feed primarily on meat. They have a characteristic skull shape and dentition. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "40410818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40410818", "title": "List of monuments in Metropolis 4, Kathmandu", "text": "List of monuments in Metropolis 4, Kathmandu\n\nThis is a list of Monuments in Kathmandu Metropolis -4, officially recognized by and available through the website of the Department of Archaeology, Nepal in the Kathmandu District. Kathmandu is a historically rich city and Hindu temples are the main attraction of this Metropolis.\n\n"}
{"id": "40364075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40364075", "title": "List of monuments of Aruba", "text": "List of monuments of Aruba\n\nThis table shows an overview of the monuments of Aruba. \n\n"}
{"id": "20500110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20500110", "title": "List of streams of Antigua and Barbuda", "text": "List of streams of Antigua and Barbuda\n\nAntigua and Barbuda does not have any permanent rivers. Following is a list of streams in Antigua. Barbuda does not have any streams.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7120195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7120195", "title": "List of volcanoes in Réunion", "text": "List of volcanoes in Réunion\n\nThis is a list of active and extinct volcanoes.\n"}
{"id": "39654070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39654070", "title": "List of years in Belize", "text": "List of years in Belize\n\nThis is a list of years in Belize. See also the timeline of Belizean history. For only articles about years in Belize that have been written, see . \n\n"}
{"id": "33894794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33894794", "title": "Lists of things named after places", "text": "Lists of things named after places\n\n"}
{"id": "29432410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29432410", "title": "Mérida Province (1622–1676)", "text": "Mérida Province (1622–1676)\n\nMérida Province was a province of the Spanish Empire in the 17th century (1622–1676), with Mérida as its capital. It was part of the New Kingdom of Granada, and was formed initially in 1607 with a merger with the La Grita Province, forming an administrative unit below province status (\"Corregimiento de Mérida y La Grita\"), which it attained in 1622. In 1676 it merged with Maracaibo to form what became known as Maracaibo Province.\n"}
{"id": "2840568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2840568", "title": "Not A Cornfield", "text": "Not A Cornfield\n\n\"Not A Cornfield\" was a 2005 art project that transformed a industrial brownfield (today part of Los Angeles State Historic Park in the historic center of Los Angeles) into a cornfield for one agricultural cycle. The project took place north of Chinatown.\n\nLauren Bon created this work with funds from the Annenberg Foundation and considered the piece to be a sculpture. The installation cost $3 million and took place at the proposed site of Los Angeles State Historic Park, which had been referred to as \"The Cornfield\", because of the crops growing there prior to its industrial development. Fifteen hundred truck loads of soil were transported to the site and one million seeds were planted.\n\nSome people complained that the project delayed the construction of the public park at that site, that the project was approved too quickly, and that it was a waste of money.\n\nThere was a small edible garden in the cornfield, and the site was used for film screenings and drum circles. Group and school tours were available.\n\nThe corn was harvested in November and December 2005, allowed to dry and put on display in the nearby empty Capital Milling Co. building for six months. It was then used for the production of biodegradable containers. The project left behind fertile soil.\n\n\"Not A Cornfield\" was located at 1201 North Spring Street, Los Angeles, California, 90012.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23265981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23265981", "title": "Nukulakia", "text": "Nukulakia\n\nNukulakia is an islet of the Fakaofo island group of Tokelau.\n\n"}
{"id": "2186198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2186198", "title": "Parc de la Villette", "text": "Parc de la Villette\n\nThe Parc de la Villette is the third-largest park in Paris, 55.5 hectares in area, located at the northeastern edge of the city in the 19th arrondissement. The park houses one of the largest concentration of cultural venues in Paris, including the Cité des Sciences et de l'Industrie (City of Science and Industry, Europe's largest science museum), three major concert venues, and the prestigious Conservatoire de Paris.\n\nParc de la Villette is served by Paris Métro stations Corentin Cariou on Line 7 and Porte de Pantin on Line 5.\n\nThe park was designed by Bernard Tschumi, a French architect of Swiss origin, who built it from 1984 to 1987 in partnership with Colin Fournier, on the site of the huge Parisian \"abattoirs\" (slaughterhouses) and the national wholesale meat market, as part of an urban redevelopment project. The slaughterhouses, built in 1867 on the instructions of Napoléon III, had been cleared away and relocated in 1974. Tschumi won a major design competition in 1982–83 for the park, and he sought the opinions of the deconstructionist philosopher Jacques Derrida in the preparation of his design proposal.\n\nSince the creation of the park, museums, concert halls, and theatres have been designed by several noted contemporary architects, including Christian de Portzamparc, Adrien Fainsilber, Philippe Chaix, Jean-Paul Morel, Gérard Chamayou,on to Mr. Tschumi.\n\nThe park houses museums, concert halls, live performance stages, and theatres, as well as playgrounds for children, and thirty-five architectural follies. These include:\n\n\nLe TARMAC (former Théâtre de l'Est Parisien), venue for world performance art and dance companies touring from \"La Francophonie\", has mooved to 159 avenue Gambetta in the 20th arrondissement.\n\nSince its completion in 1987, the Parc de la Villette has become a popular attraction for Paris residents and international travelers alike. An estimated 10 million people visit the park each year to take part in an array of cultural activities. With its collection of museums, theatres, architectural follies, themed gardens, and open spaces for exploration and activity, the park has created an area that relates to both adults and children.\n\nDesigned by Bernard Tschumi, the park is meant to be a place inspired by the post-modernist architectural ideas of deconstructivism. Tschumi’s design was in partial response to the philosophies of Jacques Derrida, acting as an architectural experiment in space (through a reflection on Plato's Khôra), form, and how those relate a person’s ability to recognize and interact. According to Tschumi, the intention of the park was to create space for activity and interaction, rather than adopt the conventional park mantra of ordered relaxation and self-indulgence. The vast expanse of the park allows for visitors to walk about the site with a sense of freedom and opportunity for exploration and discovery.\n\nThe design of the park is organized into a series of points, lines, and surfaces. These categories of spatial relation and formulation are used in Tschumi’s design to act as means of deconstructing the traditional views of how a park is conventionally meant to exist.\n\nThe Parc de la Villette boasts activities that engage all people of all ages and cultural backgrounds. The park is a contemporary melting pot of cultural expression where local artists and musicians produce exhibits and performances. On the periphery of the park lies the Cité des Sciences et de l'Industrie, the largest science museum in Europe. There is a convention center and an I-MAX theatre. The park acts as a connection between these exterior functions. Concerts are scheduled year round, hosting local and mainstream musicians. Dividing the park is the Canal de l'Ourcq, which has boat tours that transport visitors around the park and to other sites in Paris. Festivals are common in the park along with artist conventions and shows by performers.\n\nThe Parc de la Villette hosts an annual open-air film festival. In 2010 the festival's theme was \"To Be 20\" (\"Avoir 20 ans\") and featured films about youth and self-discovery around the age of 20. In 2010 films were shown by American filmmakers Woody Allen and Sofia Coppola as well as French and international filmmakers.\n\nThe Parc de la Villette has a collection of ten themed gardens that attract a large amount of the park’s visitors. Each garden is created with a different representation of architectural deconstructionism and tries to create space through playfully sculptural and clever means. While some of the gardens are minimalist in design, others are clearly constructed with children in mind.\n\nLe \"Jardin du Dragon\" (The Garden of the Dragon) is home to a large sculptural steel dragon that has an 80 ft slide for children to play on.\n\nThe \"Jardin de Bambou\" (Bamboo Garden) at the Parc de la Villette was designed by Alexandre Chemetoff, winner of the Grand Prix de l'urbanisme (2000).\n\nThe \"Jardin de la Treille\" (Trellis Garden) designed by Gilles Vexlard and Laurence Vacherot. Vines and creepers are going along a roof trellis and 90 small fountains designed so that you only really hear the murmur of them in between the grape vines. \n7 \"Sculptures de visées\" (Sculptures Bachelard) by Jean-Max Albert are installed all around and an anamorphosis refection is displayed in a small pool.\n\nThe gardens range in function; where some gardens are meant for active engagement, others exist to play off of curiosity and investigation or merely allow for relaxation.\n\nProbably the most iconic pieces of the park, the follies act as architectural representations of deconstruction. In architecture, a folly is a building constructed primarily for decoration, but either suggesting by its appearance some other purpose, or merely so extravagant that it transcends the normal range of garden ornaments or other class of building to which it belongs. Thirty-five follies are placed on a grid and offer a distinct organization to the park. Architecturally, the follies are meant to act as points of reference that help visitors gain a sense of direction and navigate throughout the space. While the follies are meant to exist in a deconstructive vacuum without historical relation, many have found connections between the steel structures and the previous buildings that were part of the old industrial fabric of the area. Today, the follies remain as cues to organization and direction for park visitors. Some of them house restaurants, information centers, and other functions associated with the park’s needs.\n\nThere have been many criticisms of the innovative design of the park since its original completion. To some, the park has little concern with the human scale of park functions and the vast open space seem to challenge the expectation that visitors may have of an urban park. Bernard Tschumi designed the Parc de la Villette with the intention of creating a space that exists in a vacuum, something without historical precedent. The park strives to strip down the signage and conventional representations that have infiltrated architectural design and allow for the existence of a “non-place.” This non-place, envisioned by Tschumi, is the most appropriate example of space and provides a truly honest relationship between the subject and the object.\n\nVisitors view and react to the plan, landscaping, and sculptural pieces without the ability to cross-reference them with previous works of historical architecture. The design of the park capitalizes on the innate qualities that are illustrated within architectural deconstructivism. By allowing visitors to experience the architecture of the park within this constructed vacuum, the time, recognitions, and activities that take place in that space begin to acquire a more vivid and authentic nature. The park is not acting as a spectacle; it is not an example of traditional park design such as New York City’s Central Park. The Parc de la Villette strives to act as merely a frame for other cultural interaction.\n\nThe park embodies anti-tourism, not allowing visitors to breeze through the site and pick and choose the sites they want to see. Upon arrival in the park, visitors are thrust into a world that is not defined by conventional architectural relationships. The frame of the park, due to its roots in deconstructivism, tries to change and react to the functions that it holds within.\n\n"}
{"id": "8084851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8084851", "title": "Place syntax", "text": "Place syntax\n\nPlace syntax is a term in spatial analysis. There is potential in combining geographically oriented accessibility research and geometrically oriented research in architecture, such as space syntax, as stated by for example, Ståhle et al.\n\n"}
{"id": "18018540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18018540", "title": "Planetary cartography", "text": "Planetary cartography\n\nPlanetary cartography, or cartography of extraterrestrial objects (CEO), is the cartography of solid objects outside of the Earth. Planetary maps can show any spatially mapped characteristic (such as topography, geology, and geophysical properties) for extraterrestrial surfaces.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8874154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8874154", "title": "Robert Bell (geologist)", "text": "Robert Bell (geologist)\n\nRobert Bell (June 3, 1841 – June 18, 1917) was a Canadian geologist, professor and civil servant. He is considered one of Canada’s greatest exploring scientists, having named over 3,000 geographical features.\n\nRobert Bell was born in Toronto, Upper Canada to Presbyterian clergy and amateur geologist, Reverend Andrew Bell and Elizabeth Notman. In 1873, Bell married Agnes Smith. They had a son and three daughters. He spent his retirement at his home in Ottawa and his farm in Rathwell, Manitoba. Bell died after a brief illness at the age of 76 at his farm.\n\nIn 1856, at the age of 15 years old, Bell worked as a summer assistant to William Edmond Logan with the Geological Survey of Canada (GSC). Even as he started postsecondary education, he continued to work summers with the GSC, heading his own survey party in 1859.\n\nBell attended McGill University, Montreal, and studied under John William Dawson. In 1861, Bell earned a civil engineering degree with the Governor General’s Medal. He went on to study for two years at the University of Edinburgh. In 1878, he earned a medical degree from McGill University.\n\nIn 1863, Bell became a chemistry and natural sciences professor at Queen’s College in Kingston, Ontario. He continued to do fieldwork for the GSC over the summers. In 1867, he left Queen’s to join the GSC full-time.\n\nIn 1869, the GSC made Bell a permanent officer, and he spent the rest of his career there. He was promoted to Assistant Director (1877), Chief Geologist (1890), then Acting Director (1901-1906). He was saddened that he was never appointed Director of the Survey. In November 1908, Bell retired.\n\nDuring his 52-year career at the GSC, Bell led many extensive explorations in northern Quebec, Ontario, Manitoba, the eastern Arctic, Saskatchewan prairies and the Athabasca oil sands. He is credited with mapping the rivers between Hudson Bay and Lake Superior.\n\nAs was the case with all GSC geologists of the time, Bell collected specimens and made notes on geology, flora and fauna, indigenous populations, climate and soil and exploitable resources. His GSC colleagues dubbed him the father of Canadian place-names because he is credited with naming over 3,000 geographical features in Canada. Bell wrote over 200 reports and papers, mostly on geology, biology, geography and ethnology. During his lifetime, he saw his extensive body of fieldwork put to a significant purpose. The planners of the third trans-continental railway, the Grand Trunk Pacific, were able to use the vast compendium of information in Bell's reports as the preliminary reconnaissance work required to plan the track route from Quebec to Winnipeg.\n\nBell assembled a private library estimated to contain 26 tons of books and artifacts to support his life’s work. The collection contained rock specimens and hundreds of books on various subjects ranging from natural history texts, medical texts, geological reports, native language and culture texts and books on the exploration of North America. It also contained research and professional periodicals, several Canadian newspapers and several hundred reprints of scientific and professional reports from other researchers.\n\nOn October 28, 1962, some of this collection was damaged or destroyed in a fire in Ottawa. Subsequently, the surviving collection was dispersed to family, private collectors and institutions. The majority went to the National Archives of Canada.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33994239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33994239", "title": "SailTimer", "text": "SailTimer\n\nSailTimer is a technology for sailboat navigation, which calculates optimal tacking angles, distances and times.\n\nSeafarers have had a dilemma for as long as sailboats could use lift to sail upwind. Should you head off the wind more, to get more speed (but at a longer distance)? Or should you sail upwind more, to lessen the distance (but at slower speed)?\n\nDifferent sailboats have varying capabilities for sailing upwind because of the condition of their sails, the type of rigging, and the ability to track in the water based on their keel or centerboard design. That means there is not a single rule for everyone; each vessel has its own individual polar plot of boat speed for all of the possible wind angles. The mathematical calculations for determining the tacking angles and times with polar plots would not be practical to do mentally.\n\nCivilian access to GPS navigation became available circa 1989. Estimated time of arrival (ETA) is a standard GPS chartplotter parameter, based on the assumption that the route will be a straight line to the destination. However, sailboats typically tack back and forth, creating a longer distance than a straight line.\n\nSailTimer evaluates tacking distances and boat speeds on different points of sail to determine optimal tacking headings. During the original development of the SailTimer software in 2005-2006, the term TTD (tm) was coined for \"Tacking Time to Destination\".\n\nSailboats can be pushed downwind by the wind, or can use lift to move across or into the wind. However, for most sailboats the boat speed drops if sailing closer than 45 degrees to the wind. The highest speed for most sailboats is reaching with the wind from the side or the aft quarter (a beam reach or a broad reach).\n\nIf the destination is upwind but the sailboat goes fastest heading away from this direction, this poses a significant problem: how to choose tack headings with the best tradeoff between maximimizing speed and minimizing distance. The ability to define an efficient tacking route is an important issue in sailboat racing, and for recreational sailing. It is also an important issue of navigational safety, so that the sailboat is able to arrive before dark. Being able to accurately calculate the Tacking Time to Destination also allows a skipper to select a course that avoids bad weather or shipping traffic.\n\nGiven the widespread growth of smartphones, a version of SailTimer is available from the App Store (iOS) for iPhone, iPod and iPad tablets.\n\nSailTimer also runs on a dedicated handheld device called The Sailing GPS. An artificial intelligence algorithm allows it to learn the polar plots for an individual sailboat, which it then uses for making decisions on the optimal tacking route and Tacking Time to Destination.\n\n"}
{"id": "53326251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53326251", "title": "Sandy Island, Anguilla", "text": "Sandy Island, Anguilla\n\nSandy Island is an island in the Caribbean Sea which belongs to the Lesser Antilles and is part of the British overseas territories . It lies west of Anguilla.\n\nSandy Island is a small island on which a local restaurant is located. From Sandy Ground Anguilla can be reached in 15 minutes, and the owner of the restaurant takes care of the free boat crossing. The island is small (ca. 250x75 meters), consisting of round white sands with in the middle a little vegetation with shrubs and palm trees.\n\nThe island is popular with tourists for the richness of its seabed , the beach of fine sand and coral for the presence of a business (bar / restaurant) famous in the area.\n\nIn 1995, the island was submerged by Hurricane Luis for some days while the facilities were severely damaged by the passage of the next several tropical cyclones and, during one of these storms, vessel went aground on the island. The buildings were rebuilt later.\n\nEven the flora was damaged by tropical storms, the palm trees and shrubs were uprooted by strong winds giving the island an aspect even more barren, almost without vegetation.\n\nThe restaurant was re-built in 2007, however in 2017, Hurricane Irma destroyed the buildings and vegetation, leaving a bare sand bar.\n"}
{"id": "2658623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2658623", "title": "Save China's Tigers", "text": "Save China's Tigers\n\nSave China's Tigers (SCT) is an international charitable foundation based in Hong Kong, the United States, and the United Kingdom (Office in London) which aims to save the big cats of China from extinction. It focuses on the Chinese tigers (South China tigers). It also has branches in Mainland China and South Africa.\n\nThe organization's vision is to raise awareness of the plight of the Chinese tiger and to strive for its protection and preservation through public education, introduction and experimentation with advanced conservation models in China and abroad, and raising funds to support these initiatives. Another aim is to act as a liaison for all those organizations concerned with the conservation of China's wildlife, sustainable development, biodiversity and habitat.\nThe purpose of \"Save China's Tigers\" is to reverse the fate of the South China tiger from the brink of extinction by taking them out of zoos, breeding them, letting them regain their hunting abilities, and reintroducing them back to China's wild. The organization's stated goal is to save the South China tiger using this new method of rehabilitation and reintroduction.\nNo captive-born large predators have ever been successfully reintroduced into the wild before.\nIt is an experiment to attempt to save a large carnivore by re-introducing them into the wild. To achieve this goal, Save China's Tigers is using a combination of in-situ and ex-situ conservation. The organization is aiming to set a precedent for international wildlife conservation and for zoos throughout the world.\n\n\"Save China's Tigers\" was founded in 2000 by Li Quan, former fashion executive at Gucci, Benetton and Fila in Italy. When Li Quan realized the dire state of the South China tigers in the wild and saw the poor conditions in which captive South China tigers were living in China several years ago, she devoted herself to saving the tigers. She established the charitable foundation Save China's Tigers in the UK in 2000, and subsequently in the United States (2002) and Hong Kong (2003). She engineered the Chinese Tiger Conservation Model after observing and analysing how wildlife conservation and eco-tourism have succeeded in Africa.\nIn 2001, Li Quan proposed to China to use South African expertise to help China's Chinese Tiger Rehabilitation & Reintroduction project, which the Chinese started in the 1990s, and invited a South African Team to visit China.\n\nTo commemorate the 10th anniversary of their establishment, Save China's Tigers released a photo documentary book known as \"Rewilded\".\n\nThe word \"rewilding\" was coined by conservationist and activist Dave Foreman, first occurring in print in 1990. The concept was further defined and expanded by conservation biologists Michael Soulé and Reed Noss in a paper published in 1998. According to Soulé and Noss, rewilding is a conservation method based on \"cores, corridors, and carnivores.\"\n\nThe word was first independently used in 2003 by Gus Van Dyk in the concept of carnivore rewilding (having no prior knowledge of its meaning referred to by Foremen and Soule), conservationist and ex-carnivore manager of Pilanesberg National Park, in an effort to find the most appropriate translation of the Chinese term \"野化\".\n\nIn order to be successfully reintroduced into a wild environment, tigers must know how to hunt prey and have to be able to defend themselves. Once in captivity, an animal will gradually lose its ability to survive in the wild, and will likely die if released. Thus Save China's Tigers started a rehabilitation programme to help captive tigers regain their survival skills. Rehabilitation steps taken by the project include feeding the tigers with carcasses of small game. Once the tigers are eating the new food items, live animals similar to those taken dead will be occasionally introduced into large hunting camps.\n\nThe SPCA claimed that this process was cruel to the prey, but the courts refused to issue an interdict in terms of South African law.\n\nThere are plans to introduce larger games into larger camp like the blue wildebeest; the tigers have already been provided with wildebeest carcasses. The prey needed for wild training of the tigers do not have to be the same as those in the original food chain of the tigers, as once a tiger knows how to hunt wild animals of a given size, it should be able to transfer those skills to hunting in the wild.\n\nIdeally, a former zoo tiger which has been rewilded and reintroduced into a natural habitat will not only be able to survive in the wild, but pass necessary skills on to any offspring, thus contributing to the survival of the species. Save China's Tigers has also proved that not only zoo tigers can learn to hunt, they can also learn to hunt by themselves through the \"adaptive process\". The roles of humans are limited to that monitoring and providing a suitable environment.\n\nResults of a 2010 workshop attended by numerous international experts confirmed the important role of the South China Tiger Rewilding Project in tiger conservation. \"Having seen the tigers hunting in an open environment at Laohu Valley Reserve, I believe that these rewilded tigers have the skill to hunt in any environment.\" Dr. David Smith remarked. As part of the rewilding process, the Save China's Tigers team has assisted in the recovery and rehabilitation of natural habitat both in China and in South Africa\n\nThe Laohu Valley Reserve (LVR) is a roughly 350 square kilometer private reserve near Philippolis in the Free State. It has been created with the aims of rewilding captive-born South China tigers and for South African biodiversity conservation in general. LVR was created in 2002 out of 17 defunct sheep farms, and efforts to return the overgrazed land to natural status are ongoing. The South China tigers at LVR for rewilding are kept confined to a tiger-proof camp complex of roughly 1.8 square kilometers, with other areas of the reserve being used to protect native South African species. The word \"laohu\" is a Chinese term for tiger.\n\nLi Quan persuaded the Chinese government to allow her to bring several captive South China tigers to Africa, where they can start their rewilding training. To date, five South China tigers have left the zoos of China and been sent to South Africa for re-wilding training. These tigers include:\n\n\nThe breeding program has successfully produced several tiger cubs, including:\n\nOn August 29th 2013, The Save China's Tigers Project welcomed its first third generation female cub, born to Princess and Huloo.\n\nIn April 2014 Madonna gave birth to three cubs, two females and one male. The father of the cubs is Tigerwoods.\n\nRecently in November 20th 2015, two new South China tiger cubs have been born at Laohu Valley. The mother is Cathay and the father is King Henry. With the birth of these cubs, 20 South China tigers in total are in the care of Save China's Tigers within the Laohu Valley Reserve – more than 20% of the world population of the world's most critically endangered tiger. However, a year later in February 2016, one of two South China tiger cubs recently born in late 2015 died, leaving 19 South China tigers in the reserve. At some point in that year, the South China tigers made a quick recovery with the birth of 6 healthy cubs at Laohu Valley Reserve, most of which are confirmed to be males. Three cubs were born to Madonna; Hunter, Ivan, and Jay. Two cubs to Cathay: Felix and Gilbert. And one cub to Princess known as K, however the cub's gender has yet to be determined.\n\nA large difficulty faced by the project is the limited gene pool for South China tigers – all of the South China tigers in Chinese zoos are descended from only 6 individuals caught in the 1950s. Since these tigers in captivity have been reproducing with close relatives, the quality of their genes is deteriorating. The project plans to improve living conditions and breed them scientifically – to this end a breeding centre, the David Tang Tiger Breeding Center, has been constructed at the Laohu Valley Reserve.\n\nMainstream conservationists, however, are not impressed. The WWF says that the money is being spent in the wrong place and that the Amur tiger has a better chance of survival.\n\nThe biggest obstacles are from man-made resistance, some organizations in China or from abroad kept raising objections and condemn the strategy used to save the tigers, telling the organization to give up. To SCT, these obstacles make the tiger salvation program even tougher.\n\nProponents of the Chinese Tiger Project argue that the South China tiger is not only the most ancient tiger species in the world from which all other tiger subspecies are derived, it has been a cultural symbol of China for eight thousand years, so that saving it from the brink of extinction would have a great cultural impact.\n\nSince 2001, Save China's Tigers South African team has been working with the Chinese State Forestry Administration to identify locations for the reintroduction of the rewilded South China tigers. Nine sites from four provinces were surveyed using 36 ecological parameters. Two candidate sites were selected in Jiangxi and Hunan province in early 2005, both of which were approved by the State Forestry Administration by the end of 2005. Due to the progress of Save China's Tigers rewilding project, the Chinese authorities also decided to look for sites within the nature reserves where there would be fewer human population relocation issues. In early 2010, a government scientific team identified an interim test site and three final sites, which are now awaiting approval from the relevant central government department. Save China's Tigers' scientific team is assisting Chinese authorities with fencing technology, re-stocking prey, and building tiger and wildlife management expertise.\n\nSave China's Tigers, a charitable foundation funding pioneering work with the South China tiger, has broadened its scope of conservation goals from tigers to include all wild cats around the world. On 7 August 2009, it launched the \"Wildcat Fund\" to encourage and support wild cat research, conservation, and reintroduction efforts for highly endangered and vulnerable wild cats. Historically, funding in wild cat conservation has favoured the large, charismatic species. While giving priorities to cat species having the IUCN endangered status or above, the Wildcat Fund encourages projects conducting pioneering biological and ecological research of little known cat species in an effort to increase understanding of these species and help design improved conservation techniques.\n\nIn 2013, Li accused her former husband Stuart Bray of using charitable funds for personal expenses.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54048", "title": "Steppe", "text": "Steppe\n\nIn physical geography, a steppe () is an ecoregion, in the montane grasslands and shrublands and temperate grasslands, savannas and shrublands biomes, characterized by grassland plains without trees apart from those near rivers and lakes. In South Africa, they are referred to as veld. The prairie of North America (especially the shortgrass and mixed prairie) is an example of a steppe, though it is not usually called such. A steppe may be semi-desert or covered with grass or shrubs or both, depending on the season and latitude. The term is also used to denote the climate encountered in regions too dry to support a forest but not dry enough to be a desert. The soil is typically of chernozem type.\n\nSteppes are usually characterized by a semi-arid and continental climate. Extremes can be recorded in the summer of up to and in winter, . Besides this huge difference between summer and winter, the differences between day and night are also very great. In the highlands of Mongolia, can be reached during the day with sub-zero °C (sub 32 °F) readings at night.\n\nThe mid-latitude steppes can be summarized by hot summers and cold winters, averaging of precipitation per year. Precipitation level alone is not what defines a steppe climate; potential evapotranspiration must also be taken into account.\n\nTwo types of steppe can be recorded: \n\nPeculiar types of steppe include shrub-steppe and alpine-steppe.\n\nThe Eurasian Grass-Steppe of the temperate grasslands, savannas, and shrublands had a role in the spread of the horse, the wheel, and the Indo-European languages. The Indo-European expansion and diverse invasions of horse archer civilizations of the steppe eventually led to, e.g., the rise of Mycenaean Greece by amalgamation of Indo-Europeans with the autochthonous pre-Greek population and also its destruction during the Dorian invasion in the Late Bronze Age collapse, followed by the demise of the Achaeans, the spread of the Sea Peoples, and eventually the rise of Archaic and ultimately Classical Greece.\n\nThe world's largest steppe region, often referred to as \"the Great Steppe\", is found in Eastern Europe and Central Asia, and neighbouring countries stretching from Ukraine in the west through Russia, Kazakhstan, China, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan to the Altai, Koppet Dag and Tian Shan ranges.\n\nThe inner parts of Anatolia in Turkey, Central Anatolia and East Anatolia in particular and also some parts of Southeast Anatolia, as well as much of Armenia and Iran are largely dominated by cold steppe.\n\nThe Pannonian Plain is another steppe region in eastern Europe, primarily Hungary.\n\nAnother large steppe area (prairie) is located in the central United States, western Canada and northern part of Mexico. The shortgrass prairie steppe is the westernmost part of the Great Plains region. The Channeled Scablands in Southern British Columbia and Washington State is an example of a steppe region in North America outside of the Great Plains.\n\nIn South America, cold steppe can be found in Patagonia and much of the high elevation regions east of the southern Andes.\n\nRelatively small steppe areas can be found in the interior of the South Island of New Zealand.\nIn Europe, some Mediterranean areas have a steppe-like vegetation, such as central Sicily in Italy, southern Portugal, parts of Greece in the southern Athens area, and central-eastern Spain, especially the southeastern coast (around Murcia), and places cut off from adequate moisture due to rain shadow effects such as Zaragoza.\n\nIn Asia, a subtropical steppe can be found in semi-arid lands that fringe the Thar Desert of the Indian subcontinent and the Badia of the Arabian peninsula.\n\nIn Australia, \"subtropical steppe\" can be found in a belt surrounding the most severe deserts of the continent and around the Musgrave Ranges.\n\nIn North America this environment is typical of transition areas between zones with a Mediterranean climate and true deserts, such as Reno, Nevada, the inner part of California, and much of western Texas and adjacent areas in Mexico.\n\n"}
{"id": "27580937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27580937", "title": "Teckberg", "text": "Teckberg\n\nTeckberg is a mountain at \"Landkreis Esslingen\" in Baden-Württemberg, Germany, with an elevation of 775 metres. Situated on top is castle Teck.\n\nThe Teckberg jumps from Swabian Jura edge from about 3 km towards the north front and overlooks the Albvorland to 350 m, the Lauter (Neckar) valley to 400 m. He is flanked of the approximately 602 m high foothills Hörnle and Hohenbol north and northwest. Both Foothills include smokestacks of the Swabian volcano. North below the Hörnle is the glider area Teck (between Dettingen unter Teck and Bissingen an der Teck).\nThe slope of the Teckberg formed by the Yellow Rock, a Schwammriff the Jura sea of bright lime. Under the \"Gelber Fels\", is the 31 m long and 45 m high Veronikahöhle, which is connected through columns with Verena-Beutlins-Loch. East of the Gelber Fels (Yellow Rock) three grave mounds indicate from the Hallstatt period (800-400 BC) the early settlement of the Teckberg. Under the castle Teck is the 35 m long and 9 m high fabled Sibyllenloch, on the other side the 22 m long Sibyllenhöhle. It was only in 1937 discovered during construction work and was explored in 1977. During excavations in Sibyllenloch 1898/99 over 2,000 skeletal remains of cave bear, cave lion, cave hyena and wild horse were found. So many conclusions about the glacial fauna could be drawn.\n\nWith regulation of the Regierungspräsidium Stuttgart from 9 November 1999, the entire Teckberg with an area of 386.0 hectares was reported as nature reserve. It was managed to preserve and promote an unusually varied cultural landscape with wet and dry meadows, orchards, hedges, forest fringes, alleys, groves, solitary trees, rocks, caves, springs and rare natural forest communities. These habitats provide a quality habitat for a variety of partly endangered plant and animal species. In the versatile natural area botanists could show 464 different plant species.\n\n"}
{"id": "12797180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12797180", "title": "Telephone numbers in Israel", "text": "Telephone numbers in Israel\n\nTelephone numbers in Israel consist of an area code and a subscriber number. The dial plan type in Israel is closed, and \"0\" is the internal Trunk prefix in Israel. Israel's country calling code is +972.\n\nWhen dialing an Israeli number from inside of Israel, the format is :\n\"0 - Area/network operator code (A/N) - subscriber number (X)\"\n\nWhen dialing an Israeli number from outside Israel, the format is :\n\"+972 - Area/network operator code (A/N) - subscriber number (X)\"\n\nThe Israeli telecommunication infrastructure is including the Palestinian telecommunication system.\n\nIn 1965, many Israeli phone numbers had 6 digits, but some had 5, according to the Tel-Aviv-area phone book. There were ten area codes at that time: 02 Jerusalem, Bet Shemesh; 03 Tel Aviv, Petah Tikva, Rehovot, Ashdod; 04 Haifa and western Galilee; 051 Ashkelon; 053 Netanya; 057 Beersheva and most of the Negev; 059 Eilat; 065 Afula, Nazareth; 063 Hadera, Zichron Yaakov; and 067 Tiberias, Zefat and eastern Galilee. \n\nAs recently as the 1990s, most telephone numbers in Israel had 6 digits (without area code digit). Currently there are 5 geographic area codes and 2 more non-geographic area codes, and numbers has 7 or 8 digits (without area code digit).\n\nWith the influence of VoIP long distance was deregulated in Israel. According to the Israel Ministry of Communication a VoIP number may be ported to a landline carrier and vice versa providing the option to have, say, a northern number in the south of the country. Numbers may not be ported, say, from the north to the south of the country on the same kind of line (e.g., VoIP to VoIP or landline to landline). Mobile number portability was introduced in late 2007.\n\nThe format for calls to landlines within the same area code is XXX-XXXX (7 digits subscriber number). For calls to a landline outside the local area, the area code is prefixed and the format becomes (0A) XXX-XXXX for calls to landlines, where \"0A\" is the area code.\n\nThe format for calls to cellular mobile phones is 05N-XXX-XXXX, where \"05N\" is the mobile operator indicator. The format for calls to VoIP lines is 07N-XXX-XXXX, where \"07N\" is the VoIP operator indicator.\n\nWhen calling from outside of Israel, the leading \"0\" in area codes is not dialed, and the format is +972-A-XXX-XXXX for calls to landlines, +972-5N-XXX-XXXX for calls to mobile lines, +972-7N-XXX-XXXX for calls to VoIP lines.\n\nFor calling from Israel to another country: choose operator, and dial its international access code, then dial destination country code and then the rest of the local number.\n\nDue to mobile number portability, a mobile phone with a prefix of one provider can be associated with a different provider.\n\nWhen dialing within one of the geographical area codes (2, 3, 4, 8, 9) the prefix can be dropped (so instead of dialing (0A)XXX-XXXX you can dial XXX-XXXX).\n\n\nNon-geographic nationwide area code can be used by Landline and VoIP operators.\n\nSpecial numbers include emergency and aid services, along with technical support and other provider services:\n\nKosher phones and networks are essentially phones with Haredi rabbinical approval that can be used for communication without entertainment functionality or connectivity. This is a line that has a pre-defined\nprefix and it is blocked to content that Haredi activists feel is not appropriate for their community.\nSuch blocking includes cellular internet access, chat rooms, SMS, etc.\nThis does not mean that other phones are not kosher according to Jewish law, as evidenced by the fact that a very large number - if not the majority - of observant Orthodox Jews worldwide do not restrict themselves to \"kosher\" phones; rather the description \"kosher\" phones is a loose one, implying an added level of stringency accepted by some communities.\n\nThe companies who provides \"kosher numbers\" allocated exclusive ranges for those lines, which are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26332537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26332537", "title": "The Green Cathedral", "text": "The Green Cathedral\n\nThe Green Cathedral or De Groene Kathedraal located near Almere Netherlands, is an artistic planting of Lombardy poplars (\"Populus nigra italica\") that mimics the size and shape of the Cathedral of Notre-Dame, Reims, France. The Green Cathedral is long and wide, and the mature poplar trees are approximately tall.\n\nThe work was planted by Marinus Boezem (b. 1934) on April 16, 1987, in Southern Flevoland. The land art project was installed on polder land. 178 trees were planted on a knoll, a half-metre above the surrounding area. Over the following years, some trees were replaced due to deer damage, and stone was laid in the floor to echo the cross ribs and support beams of the cathedral.\n\nNow mature, the cathedral has become a location for weddings, funerals, meetings and religious services of all kinds. Nearby, a clearing has been made in a young beech forest so that the open space is in the shape of the same cathedral. Boezem suggests, as the poplars decline, the beech trees around the clearing will grow to create the church once more thus ensuring a cyclical evolution of growth, decline and growth.\n"}
{"id": "36170288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36170288", "title": "Timeline of Lagos", "text": "Timeline of Lagos\n\nThe following is a of the history of the metropolis of Lagos, Nigeria.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56855526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56855526", "title": "Vehicle registration plates of Sint Maarten", "text": "Vehicle registration plates of Sint Maarten\n\nSint Maarten requires its residents to register their motor vehicles and display vehicle registration plates. Current plates are North American standard 6 × 12 inches (152 × 300 mm). Some plates start with different letters, sometimes similar to plates of the Netherlands: V for commercial vehicles, TX for taxi, D for governmental vehicles, AB for buses. \n\n"}
{"id": "23700343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23700343", "title": "Windhoek Central Business District", "text": "Windhoek Central Business District\n\nWindhoek Central Business District (short: \"Windhoek Central\") is the inner city area of Windhoek, capital of Namibia. It is surrounded by the suburbs of Windhoek West and Hochland Park in the west, Windhoek-North in the north, Eros, Klein-Windhoek, Luxushügel and Auasblick in the east, and Suiderhof and Southern Industrial in the south.\n\nWindhoek Central consists of residential and business properties as well as public spaces. Most of Windhoek's governmental and administrative buildings are situated here. The name addition \"Business District\" refers to the possibility to apply for business rights which is generally granted for erven in Windhoek that are situated in any proclaimed business district.\n\n"}
{"id": "231002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231002", "title": "Zion", "text": "Zion\n\nZion ( \"Ṣîyōn\", modern Tsiyyon; also transliterated \"Sion\", \"Sayon\", \"Syon\", \"Tzion\", \"Tsion\") is a placename often used as a synonym for Jerusalem as well as for the biblical Land of Israel as a whole. The word is first found in which dates from c. 630–540 BCE according to modern scholarship. It originally referred to a specific hill in Jerusalem (Mount Zion), located to the south of Mount Moriah (the Temple Mount). Mount Zion held a Jebusite fortress of the same name that was conquered by David and was re-named the City of David; see Names of Jerusalem. That specific hill (\"mount\") is one of the many squat hills that form Jerusalem, which also includes Mount Moriah (the Temple Mount), the Mount of Olives, etc. Over many centuries, until as recently as the Ottoman era, the city walls of Jerusalem were rebuilt many times in new locations, so that the particular hill known as Mount Zion is no longer inside the city wall, but its location is now just outside the portion of the Old City wall forming the southern boundary of the Jewish Quarter of the current Old City. Most of the original City of David itself is thus also outside the current city wall. \n\nThe term \"Tzion\" came to designate the area of Davidic Jerusalem where the fortress stood, and was used as well as synecdoche for the entire city of Jerusalem; and later, when Solomon's Temple was built on the adjacent Mount Moriah (which, as a result, came to be known as the Temple Mount) the meanings of the term \"Tzion\" were further extended by synecdoche to the additional meanings of the Temple itself, the hill upon which the Temple stood, the entire city of Jerusalem, the entire biblical Land of Israel, and \"the World to Come\", the Jewish understanding of the afterlife.\n\nIn Kabbalah, the more esoteric reference is made to Tzion being the spiritual point from which reality emerges, located in the Holy of Holies of the First, Second and Third Temple.\n\nThe etymology of the word \"Zion\" (\"ṣiyôn\") is uncertain. Mentioned in the Old Testament in the Books of Samuel (2 Samuel 5:7) as the name of the Jebusite fortress conquered by David, its origin likely predates the Israelites. If Semitic, it may be derived from the Hebrew root \"ṣiyyôn\" (\"castle\") or the Hebrew צִיָּה \"ṣiyya\" (\"dry land\", Jeremiah 51:43). A non-Semitic relationship to the Hurrian word \"šeya\" (\"river\" or \"brook\") has also been suggested.\n\nThe form \"Tzion\" (; Tiberian vocalization: \"Ṣiyyôn\") appears 108 times in the Hebrew Bible, and once as \"HaTzion\". It is spelled with a tsade and not zayin.\n\nThe commonly used English form is based on German orthography, where z is always pronounced [t͡s] (e.g. \"zog\" [t͡soːk]), hence \"Zion\" in German literature. A tz would only be used if the preceding vowel is short, hence the use of \"Zion\" in 19th-century German Biblical criticism. This orthography was adopted because in German, the correct transliteration can only be rendered from the one instance of \"HaTzion\" in Kings II 23:17, where the \"a\" vowel is followed by a double consonant tz.\n\nZion is the Hebrew name for a hill south of the Temple Mount in Jerusalem, upon which was built the City of David. In its most specific sense, Mount Zion is not to be confused with Mount Moriah, better known as the Temple Mount, upon which the Temple of Solomon and the Second Temple were built. The location of the Temple, and in particular its Holy of Holies (innermost sanctum), is the most holy place in the world for the Jewish people, seen as the connection between God and humanity. Observant Jews recite the Amidah three times a day facing the Temple Mount in Jerusalem, praying for the rebuilding of the Holy Temple, the restoration of the Temple service, the redemption of the world, and for the coming of the Messiah. \n\nSome examples from the book of Psalms, state:\n\nMentioned 26 times in the Tanakh, the biblical phrase \"Daughter of Tzion\" (Hebrew \"bat Tzion\") is not a reference to Moriah in Jerusalem, nor to the hill upon which the old City of David was built in the immediate south of Mount Moriah, but rather to the women of the entire biblical Land of Israel and, thus, of Jewish peoplehood as a whole, including the Jewish diaspora.\n\nWithin the Latter Day Saint movement, Zion is often used to connote a utopian association of the righteous. This association would practice a form of communitarian economics called the United Order meant to ensure that all members maintained an acceptable quality of life, class distinctions were minimized, and group unity achieved. While Zion has often been linked with theocracy, the concept of Zion did not theoretically require such a governmental system. In this way, Zion must be distinguished from the ideal political system called theodemocracy which Latter Day Saints believed would be adopted upon Christ's Second Coming.\n\n\"Ṣahyūn\" (, \"Ṣahyūn\" or \"Ṣihyūn\") is the word for Zion in Arabic and Syriac. Drawing on biblical tradition, it is one of the names accorded to Jerusalem in Arabic and Islamic tradition. A valley called \"Wādī Sahyũn\" seemingly preserves the name and is located approximately one and three-quarter miles from the Old City's Jaffa Gate.\n\nFor example, the reference to the \"precious cornerstone\" of the new Jerusalem in the Book of Isaiah 28:16 is identified in Islamic scholarship as the Black Stone of the Kaaba. This interpretation is said by ibn Qayyim al-Jawziyya (1292–1350) to have come from the People of the Book, though earlier Christian scholarship identifies the cornerstone with Jesus.\n\nIn Rastafari, \"Zion\" stands for a utopian place of unity, peace and freedom, as opposed to \"Babylon\", the oppressing and exploiting system of the materialistic modern world and a place of evil.\n\nIt proclaims Zion, as reference to Ethiopia, the original birthplace of humankind, and from the beginning of the movement calls to repatriation to Zion, the Promised Land and Heaven on Earth. Some Rastafari believe themselves to represent the real Children of Israel in modern times, and their goal is to repatriate to Ethiopia, or to Zion. The Ge'ez-language \"Kebra Nagast\" serves as inspiration for the idea that the \"Glory of Zion\" transferred from Jerusalem to Ethiopia in the time of Solomon and Sheba, c. 950 BC.\n\nRastafari reggae contains many references to Zion; among the best-known examples are the Bob Marley songs \"Zion Train\", \"Iron Lion Zion\", the Bunny Wailer song \"Rastaman\" (\"The Rasta come from Zion, Rastaman a Lion!\"), The Melodians song \"Rivers of Babylon\" (based on Psalm 137, where the captivity of \"Babylon\" is contrasted with the freedom in \"Zion\"), the Bad Brains song \"Leaving Babylon\", the Damian Marley song featuring Nas \"Road to Zion\", The Abyssinians' \"Forward Unto Zion\" and Kiddus I's \"Graduation in Zion\", which is featured in the 1977 cult roots rock reggae film \"Rockers\", and \"Let's Go to Zion\" by Winston Francis. Reggae groups such as Steel Pulse and Cocoa Tea also have many references to Zion in their various songs.\n\nThe term \"Zionism\", coined by Austrian Nathan Birnbaum, was derived from the German rendering of Tzion in his journal \"Selbstemanzipation\" (Self Emancipation) in 1890. Zionism as a political movement started in 1897 and supported a \"national home\", and later a state, for the Jewish people in Palestine. The Zionist movement declared the re-establishment of its State of Israel in 1948, following the United Nations Partition Plan for Palestine. Since then and with varying ideologies, Zionists have focused on developing and protecting this state.\n\nThe last line of the Israeli national anthem \"Hatikvah\" (Hebrew for \"Hope\") is \"...Eretz Zion, ViYerushalayim\", which means literally \"The land of Zion and Jerusalem\".\n\nThe Jewish longing for Zion, starting with the deportation and enslavement of Jews during the Babylonian captivity, was adopted as a metaphor by Christian black slaves in the United States, and after the Civil War by blacks who were still oppressed. Thus, Zion symbolizes a longing by wandering peoples for a safe homeland. This could be an actual place such as Ethiopia for Rastafari or Israel for some of the Igbos in Nigeria for example. For others, it has taken on a more spiritual meaning—a safe \"spiritual\" homeland, like in heaven, or a kind of peace of mind in one's present life.\n\nToday, Mount Zion refers to a hill south of the Old City's Armenian Quarter, not to the Temple Mount. This apparent misidentification dates at least from the 1st century AD, when Josephus calls Jerusalem's Western Hill \"Mount Zion\". The Abbey of the Dormition is located upon the hill currently called Mount Zion.\n\n\n"}
