{"id": "159433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=159433", "title": "Arab world", "text": "Arab world\n\nThe Arab world ( '; formally: Arab homeland, '), also known as the Arab nation ( '), the Arabsphere or the Arab states, currently consists of the 22 Arab countries of the Arab League. These Arab states occupy an area stretching from the Atlantic Ocean in the west to the Arabian Sea in the east, and from the Mediterranean Sea in the north to the Horn of Africa and the Indian Ocean in the southeast. The contemporary Arab world has a combined population of around 422 million inhabitants, over half of whom are under 25 years of age.\n\nIn the Middle Ages, the Arab world was synonymous with the historic Arab empires and caliphates. Arab nationalism arose in the second half of the 19th century along with other nationalist movements within the Ottoman Empire. The Arab League was formed in 1945 to represent the interests of Arab people and especially to pursue the political unification of the Arab countries; a project known as Pan-Arabism.\n\nThe linguistic and political denotation inherent in the term \"Arab\" is generally dominant over genealogical considerations. In Arab states, Modern Standard Arabic is the only language used by the government. The language of an individual nation is called Darija, which means \"everyday/colloquial language.\" Darija shares the majority of its vocabulary with standard Arabic, but it also significantly borrows from Berber (Tamazight) substrates, as well as extensively from French, the language of the historical colonial occupier of the Maghreb. Darija is spoken and, to various extents, mutually understood in the Maghreb countries, especially Morocco, Algeria, and Tunisia, but it is unintelligible to speakers of other Arabic dialects, mainly for those in Egypt and the Middle East.\n\nAlthough no globally accepted definition of the Arab world exists, all countries that are members of the Arab League are generally acknowledged as being part of the Arab world.\n\nThe Arab League is a regional organisation that aims (among other things) to consider in a general way the affairs and interests of the Arab countries and sets out the following definition of an Arab:\nThis standard territorial definition is sometimes seen to be inappropriate or problematic, and may be supplemented with certain additional elements (see ancillary linguistic definition below).\n\nAs an alternative to, or in combination with, the standard territorial definition, the Arab world may be defined as consisting of peoples and states united to at least some degree by Arabic language, culture or geographic contiguity, or those states or territories in which the majority of the population speaks Arabic, and thus may also include populations of the Arab diaspora.\n\nWhen an ancillary linguistic definition is used in combination with the standard territorial definition, various parameters may be applied to determine whether a state or territory should be included in this alternative definition of the Arab world. These parameters may be applied to the states and territories of the Arab League (which constitute the Arab world under the standard definition) and to other states and territories. Typical parameters that may be applied include: whether Arabic is widely spoken; whether Arabic is an official or national language; or whether an Arabic cognate language is widely spoken.\n\nWhile Arabic dialects are spoken in a number of Arab League states, Literary Arabic is official in all of them. Several states have declared Arabic to be an official or national language, although Arabic is today not as widely spoken there. As members of the Arab League, however, they are considered part of the Arab world under the standard territorial definition.\n\nSomalia has two official languages today, Arabic and Somali, both of which belong to the larger Afro-Asiatic language family. Although Arabic is widely spoken by many people in the north and urban areas in the south, Somali is the most widely used language, and contains many Arabic loan words.\n\nSimilarly, Djibouti has two official languages, Arabic and French. It also has several formally recognized national languages; besides Somali, many people speak Afar, which is also an Afro-Asiatic language. The majority of the population speaks Somali and Afar, although Arabic is also widely used for trade and other activities.\n\nComoros has three official languages: Arabic, Comorian and French. Comorian is the most widely spoken language, with Arabic having a religious significance, and French being associated with the educational system.\n\nChad, Eritrea and Israel all recognize Arabic as an official language, but none of them is a member-state of the Arab League, although both Chad and Eritrea are observer states of the League (with possible future membership) and have large populations of Arabic speakers.\n\nIsrael is not part of the Arab world. By some definitions, Arab citizens of Israel may concurrently be considered a constituent part of the Arab world.\n\nIran has about 1.5 million Arabic speakers. Iranian Arabs are mainly found in Ahvaz, a southwestern region in the Khuzestan Province; others inhabit the Bushehr and Hormozgan provinces and the city of Qom. Mali and Senegal recognize Hassaniya, the Arabic dialect of the Moorish ethnic minority, as a national language. Greece and Cyprus also recognize Cypriot Maronite Arabic under the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages. Additionally, Malta, though not part of the Arab world, has as its official language Maltese. The language is grammatically akin to Maghrebi Arabic.\n\nIn the Arab world, Modern Standard Arabic, derived from Classical Arabic (symptomatic of Arabic diglossia), serves as an official language in the Arab League states, and Arabic dialects are used as lingua franca. Various indigenous languages are also spoken, which predate the spread of the Arabic language. This contrasts with the situation in the wider Islamic world, where, in contiguous Iran, Pakistan and Afghanistan, the Perso-Arabic script is used and Arabic is the primary liturgical language, but the tongue is not official at the state level or spoken as a vernacular.\n\nArabs constitute around one quarter of the 1.5 billion Muslims in the Islamic world.\n\nThe majority of people in the Arab world adhere to Islam, and the religion has official status in most countries. Shariah law exists partially in the legal system in some countries (especially in the Arabian peninsula), while others are legislatively secular. The majority of the Arab countries adhere to Sunni Islam. Iraq and Bahrain, however, are Shia majority countries, while Lebanon, Yemen, and Kuwait have large Shia minorities. In Saudi Arabia, Ismailite pockets are also found in the eastern Al-Hasa region and the southern city of Najran. Ibadi Islam is practiced in Oman, where Ibadis constitute around 75% of Muslims.\n\nThere are also some Christian adherents in the Arab world, particularly in Egypt, Syria, Lebanon, Iraq, Jordan, and Palestine. Coptic, Maronite and Assyrian Christian enclaves exist in the Nile Valley, Levant and northern Iraq respectively. There are also numbers of Assyrian, Armenian, Syriac-Aramean and Arab Christians throughout Iraq, Syria, Lebanon and Jordan, many of which have diminished due to various regional conflicts.\n\nSmaller ethno-religious minorities across the Arab League include the Yezidis, Yarsan and Shabaks (mainly in Iraq), the Druzes (mainly in Syria and also in Lebanon, Jordan) and Mandaeans (in Iraq). Formerly, there were significant minorities of Jews throughout the Arab World. However, the Arab–Israeli conflict prompted their mass exodus between 1948–72. Today small Jewish communities remain, ranging anywhere from just 10 in Bahrain, to more than 1,000 in Tunisia and some 3,000 in Morocco.\n\nHistorically, slavery in the Muslim world developed out of pre-Islamic practices of slavery in the Arab world.\n\nAccording to UNESCO, the average rate of adult literacy (ages 15 and older) in this region is 76.9%. In Mauritania and Yemen, the rate is lower than the average, at barely over 50%. On the other hand, Syria, Lebanon, Palestine and Jordan record a high adult literacy rate of over 90%. The average rate of adult literacy shows steady improvement, and the absolute number of adult illiterates fell from 64 million to around 58 million between 1990 and 2000-2004. Overall, the gender disparity in adult literacy is high in this region, and of the illiteracy rate, women account for two-thirds, with only 69 literate women for every 100 literate men. The average GPI (Gender Parity Index) for adult literacy is 0.72, and gender disparity can be observed in Egypt, Morocco, and Yemen. Above all, the GPI of Yemen is only 0.46 in a 53% adult literacy rate. According to a UN survey, in the Arab world, the average person reads four pages a year and one new title is published each year for every 12,000 people. The Arab Thought Foundation reports that just above 8% of people in Arab countries aspire to get an education.\n\nLiteracy rate is higher among the youth than adults. Youth literacy rate (ages 15–24) in the Arab region increased from 63.9 to 76.3% from 1990 to 2002. The average rate of GCC States *Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf (GCC)\n\nCooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf (GCC) was 94%, followed by the Maghreb at 83.2% and the Mashriq at 73.6%.\n\nThe United Nations published an Arab human development report in 2002, 2003 and 2004. These reports, written by researchers from the Arab world, address some sensitive issues in the development of Arab countries: women empowerment, availability of education and information among others.\n\nWomen in the Arab world are still denied equality of opportunity, although their disenfranchisement is a critical factor crippling the Arab nations' quest to return to the first rank of global leaders in commerce, learning and culture, according to a United Nations-sponsored report in 2008.\n\nTable of largest cities in the Arab world by official city propers:\n\nThe Arabs historically originate as a Central Semitic group in the Arabian peninsula. Their expansion beyond Arabia and the Syrian desert is due to the Muslim conquests of the 7th and 8th centuries. Mesopotamia (modern Iraq) was conquered in 633, Levant (modern Syria, Israel, Palestine, Jordan, Lebanon and tine) between 636 and 640 CE.\n\nEgypt was conquered in 639, and gradually Arabized during the medieval period. A distinctively Egyptian Arabic language emerged by the 16th century.\n\nThe Maghreb was also conquered in the 7th century, and gradually Arabized under the Fatimids.\nIslam was brought to Sudan from Egypt during the 8th to 11th centuries.\n\nThe culture of Sudan today depends on the tribe, some have a pure Nubian, Beja, or Arabic culture and some have a mixture of Arab and Nubian elements.\n\nThe Arab Abbasid Caliphate fell to the Mongol invasions in the 13th century. Egypt, the Levant and Hejaz also came under the Turkish Mamluk Sultanate.\n\nBy 1570, the Turkish Ottoman Empire controlled most of the Arab world. However, Morocco remained under the rule of the Zenata Wattasid dynasty, which was succeeded by the Saadi dynasty in the 16th to 17th centuries. The Ajuran Sultanate also held sway in the southern part of the Horn region.\n\nThe sentiment of Arab nationalism arose in the second half of the 19th century along with other nationalisms within the declining Ottoman Empire.\n\nWhen the Ottoman Empire collapsed as a result of World War I, much of the Arab world came to be controlled by the European colonial empires: Mandatory Palestine, Mandatory Iraq, British protectorate of Egypt, French protectorate of Morocco, Italian Libya, French Tunisia, French Algeria, French Mandate of Syria and Lebanon and the so-called Trucial States, a British protectorate formed by the sheikhdoms on the former \"Pirate Coast\".\n\nThese Arab states only gained their independence during or after World War II: the Republic of Lebanon in 1943, the Syrian Arab Republic and the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan in 1946, the Kingdom of Libya in 1951, the Kingdom of Egypt in 1952, the Kingdom of Morocco and Tunisia in 1956, the Republic of Iraq in 1958, the Somali Republic in 1960, Algeria in 1962, and the United Arab Emirates in 1971.\n\nBy contrast, Saudi Arabia had fragmented with the fall of the Ottoman Empire, and was unified under Ibn Saud of Saudi Arabia by 1932.\n\nThe Mutawakkilite Kingdom of Yemen also seceded directly from the Ottoman Empire in 1918. Oman, apart from brief intermittent Persian and Portuguese rule has, been self-governing since the 8th century.\n\nThe Arab League was formed in 1945 to represent the interests of the Arabs, and especially to pursue the political unification of the Arab world, a project known as Pan-Arabism.\nThere were some short-lived attempts at such unification in the mid-20th century, notably the United Arab Republic of 1958 to 1961.\nThe Arab League's main goal is to unify politically the Arab populations so defined. Its permanent headquarters are located in Cairo. However, it was moved temporarily to Tunis during the 1980s, after Egypt was expelled for signing the Camp David Accords (1978).\n\nPan-Arabism has mostly been abandoned as an ideology since the 1980s, and was replaced by Pan-Islamism on one hand, and individual nationalisms on the other.\n\nThe unification of Saudi Arabia was a 30-year-long military and political campaign, by which the various tribes, sheikhdoms, and emirates of most of the Arabian Peninsula were conquered by the House of Saud, or \"Al Saud\", between 1902 and 1932, when the modern-day Kingdom of Saudi Arabia was proclaimed. Carried out under the charismatic Abdul Aziz Ibn Saud, this process created what is sometimes referred to as the \"Third Saudi State\", to differentiate it from the first and second states that existed under the Al Saud clan.\n\nThe Al-Saud had been in exile in Ottoman Iraq since 1893 following the disintegration of the Second Saudi State and the rise of Jebel Shammar under the Al Rashid clan. In 1902, Ibn Saud recaptured Riyadh, the Al Saud dynasty's former capital. He went on to subdue the rest of Nejd, Al-Hasa, Jebel Shammar, Asir, and Hejaz (location of the Muslim holy cities of Mecca and Medina) between 1913 and 1926. The resultant polity was named the Kingdom of Nejd and Hejaz from 1927 until it was further consolidated with Al-Hasa and Qatif into the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia in 1932.\n\nThe establishment of the State of Israel in 1948 has given rise to the Arab–Israeli conflict, one of the major unresolved geopolitical conflicts.\n\nThe Arab states in changing alliances were involved in a number of wars with Israel and its western allies between 1948 and 1973, including the 1948 Arab–Israeli War, the 1956 Suez Crisis, the Six-Day War of 1967, and the Yom Kippur War of 1973.\nAn Egypt–Israel Peace Treaty was signed in 1979.\n\nThe Iran–Iraq War (also known as the First Gulf War and by various other names) was an armed conflict between the armed forces of Iraq and Iran, lasting from September 1980 to August 1988, making it the second longest conventional war of the 20th century. It was initially referred to in English as the \"Gulf War\" prior to the \"Gulf War\" of 1990.\n\nThe war began when Iraq invaded Iran, launching a simultaneous invasion by air and land into Iranian territory on 22 September 1980 following a long history of border disputes, and fears of Shia Islam insurgency among Iraq's long-suppressed Shia majority influenced by the Iranian Revolution. Iraq was also aiming to replace Iran as the dominant Persian Gulf state. Although Iraq hoped to take advantage of the revolutionary chaos in Iran (see Iranian Revolution, 1979) and attacked without formal warning, they made only limited progress into Iran and were quickly repelled by the Iranians who regained virtually all lost territory by June 1982. For the next six years, Iran was on the offensive.\n\nThe Lebanese Civil War was a multifaceted civil war in Lebanon, lasting from 1975 to 1990 and resulting in an estimated 120,000 fatalities. Another one million people (a quarter of the population) were wounded, and today approximately 76,000 people remain displaced within Lebanon. There was also a mass exodus of almost one million people from Lebanon.\n\nThe Western Sahara War was an armed struggle between the Sahrawi Polisario Front and Morocco between 1975 and 1991, being the most significant phase of the Western Sahara conflict. The conflict erupted after the withdrawal of Spain from the Spanish Sahara in accordance with the Madrid Accords, by which it transferred administrative control of the territory to Morocco and Mauritania, but not the sovereignty. In 1975, Moroccan government organized the Green March of some 350,000 Moroccan citizens, escorted by around 20,000 troops, who entered Western Sahara, trying to establish Moroccan presence. While at first met with just minor resistance by the Polisario, Morocco later engaged a long period of guerilla warfare with the Sahrawi nationalists. During the late 1970s, the Polisario Front, desiring to establish an independent state in the territory, successively fought both Mauritania and Morocco. In 1979, Mauritania withdrew from the conflict after signing a peace treaty with the Polisario. The war continued in low intensity throughout the 1980s, though Morocco made several attempts to take the upper hand in 1989-1991. A cease-fire agreement was finally reached between the Polisario Front and Morocco in September 1991.\n\nThe North Yemen Civil War was fought in North Yemen between royalists of the Mutawakkilite Kingdom of Yemen and factions of the Yemen Arab Republic from 1962 to 1970. The war began with a coup d'état carried out by the republican leader, Abdullah as-Sallal, which dethroned the newly crowned Imam al-Badr and declared Yemen a republic under his presidency. The Imam escaped to the Saudi Arabian border and rallied popular support.\n\nThe Somali Civil War is an ongoing civil war taking place in Somalia. It began in 1991, when a coalition of clan-based armed opposition groups ousted the nation's long-standing military government.\n\nVarious factions began competing for influence in the power vacuum that followed, which precipitated an aborted UN peacekeeping attempt in the mid-1990s. A period of decentralization ensued, characterized by a return to customary and religious law in many areas as well as the establishment of autonomous regional governments in the northern part of the country. The early 2000s saw the creation of fledgling interim federal administrations, culminating in the establishment of the Transitional Federal Government (TFG) in 2004. In 2006, the TFG, assisted by Ethiopian troops, assumed control of most of the nation's southern conflict zones from the newly formed Islamic Courts Union (ICU). The ICU subsequently splintered into more radical groups, notably Al-Shabaab, which have since been fighting the Somali government and its AMISOM allies for control of the region. In 2011, a coordinated military operation between the Somali military and multinational forces began, which is believed to represent one of the final stages in the war's Islamist insurgency.\n\nThe popular protests throughout the Arab world of late 2010 to the present have been directed against authoritarian leadership and associated political corruption, paired with demands for more democratic rights. The two most violent and prolonged conflicts in the aftermath of the Arab Spring are the Libyan Civil War and Syrian Civil War.\n\nWhile the Arab world had been of limited interest to the European colonial powers, the British Empire being mostly interested in the Suez Canal as a route to British India, the economic and geopolitical situation changed dramatically after the discovery of large petroleum deposits in the 1930s, coupled with the vastly increased demand for petroleum in the west as a result of the Second Industrial Revolution.\n\nThe Persian Gulf is particularly well-endowed with this strategic raw material: five Persian Gulf states, Saudi Arabia, Iraq, the UAE, Kuwait, and Qatar, are among the top ten petroleum or gas exporters worldwide. In Africa, Algeria (10th world) and Libya are important gas exporters. In addition Bahrain, Egypt, Tunisia, and Sudan all have smaller but significant reserves. Where present, these have had significant effects on regional politics, often enabling rentier states, leading to economic disparities between oil-rich and oil-poor countries, and, particularly in the more sparsely populated states of the Persian Gulf and Libya, triggering extensive labor immigration. It is believed that the Arab world holds approximately 46% of the world’s total proven oil reserves and a quarter of the world's natural-gas reserves.\n\nIslamism and Pan-Islamism were on the rise during the 1980s. The Hezbollah, a militant Islamic party in Lebanon, was founded in 1982.\nIslamic terrorism became a problem in the Arab world in the 1970s to 1980s. While the Muslim Brotherhood had been active in Egypt since 1928, their militant actions were limited to assassination attempts on political leaders.\n\nToday, Arab states are characterized by their autocratic rulers and lack of democratic control. The 2016 \"Democracy Index\" classifies Lebanon, Iraq and Palestine as \"hybrid regimes\", Tunisia as a \"flawed democracy\" and all other Arab states as \"authoritarian regimes\". Similarly, the 2011 Freedom House report classifies Comoros and Mauritania as \"electoral democracies\", Lebanon, Kuwait and Morocco as \"partly free\", and all other Arab states as \"not free\".\n\nThe invasion of Kuwait by Iraq forces, led to the 1990–91 Persian Gulf War. Egypt, Syria and Saudi Arabia joined a multinational coalition that opposed Iraq. Displays of support for Iraq by Jordan and Palestine resulted in strained relations between many of the Arab states. After the war, a so-called \"Damascus Declaration\" formalized an alliance for future joint Arab defensive actions between Egypt, Syria, and the GCC states.\n\nA chain of events leading to the destabilization of the authoritarian regimes established during the 1950s throughout the Arab world became apparent during the early years of the 21st century. The 2003 invasion of Iraq led to the collapse of the Baathist regime and ultimate execution of Saddam Hussein.\n\nA growing class of young, educated, secular citizens with access to modern media such as Al Jazeera (since 1996) and communicating via the internet began to form a third force besides the classical dichotomy of Pan-Arabism vs. Pan-Islamism that had dominated the second half of the 20th century.\n\nIn Syria, the Damascus Spring of 2000 to 2001 heralded the possibility of democratic change, but the Baathist regime managed to suppress the movement.\n\nIn 2003, the Egyptian Movement for Change, popularly known as \"Kefaya\", was launched to oppose the Mubarak regime and to establish democratic reforms and greater civil liberties in Egypt.\n\nFor the states and territories constituting the Arab world, see definition above.\n\nDifferent forms of government are represented in the Arab World: Some of the countries are monarchies: Bahrain, Jordan, Kuwait, Morocco, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates. The other Arab countries are all republics. With the exception of Lebanon, Tunisia, Palestine, and recently Mauritania, democratic elections throughout the Arab World are generally viewed as compromised, due to outright vote rigging, intimidation of opposition parties, and severe restraints on civil liberties and political dissent.\n\nAfter World War II, Pan-Arabism sought to unite all Arabic-speaking countries into one political entity. Only Syria, Iraq, Egypt, Sudan, Tunisia, Libya and North Yemen considered the short-lived unification of the United Arab Republic. Historical divisions, competing local nationalisms, and geographical sprawl were major reasons for the failure of Pan-Arabism. Arab Nationalism was another strong force in the region which peaked during the mid-20th century and was professed by many leaders in Egypt, Algeria, Libya, Syria, and Iraq. Arab Nationalist leaders of this period included Gamal Abdel Nasser of Egypt, Ahmed Ben Bella of Algeria, Michel Aflaq, Salah al-Din al-Bitar, Zaki al-Arsuzi, Constantin Zureiq and Shukri al-Kuwatli of Syria, Ahmed Hassan al-Bakr of Iraq, Habib Bourguiba of Tunisia, Mehdi Ben Barka of Morocco, and Shakib Arslan of Lebanon.\n\nLater and current Arab Nationalist leaders include Muammar al-Gaddafi of Libya, Hafez al-Assad and Bashar al-Assad of Syria. The diverse Arab states generally maintained close ties but distinct national identities developed and strengthened with the social, historical and political realities of the past 60 years. This has made the idea of a pan-Arab nation-state increasingly less feasible and likely. Additionally, an upsurge in political Islam has since led to a greater emphasis on pan-Islamic rather than pan-Arab identity amongst some Arab Muslims. Arab nationalists who once opposed Islamic movements as a threat to their power, now deal with them differently for reasons of political reality.\n\nMany of the modern borders of the Arab World were drawn by European imperial powers during the 19th and early 20th century. However, some of the larger states (in particular Egypt and Syria) have historically maintained geographically definable boundaries, on which some of the modern states are roughly based. The 14th-century Egyptian historian Al-Maqrizi, for instance, defines Egypt's boundaries as extending from the Mediterranean in the north to lower Nubia in the south; and between the Red Sea in the east and the oases of the Western/Libyan desert. The modern borders of Egypt, therefore, are not a creation of European powers, and are at least in part based on historically definable entities which are in turn based on certain cultural and ethnic identifications.\n\nAt other times, kings, emirs or sheikhs were placed as semi-autonomous rulers over the newly created nation states, usually chosen by the same imperial powers that for some drew the new borders, for services rendered to European powers like the British Empire, e.g. Sherif Hussein ibn Ali. Many African states did not attain independence until the 1960s from France after bloody insurgencies for their freedom. These struggles were settled by the imperial powers approving the form of independence given, so as a consequence almost all of these borders have remained. Some of these borders were agreed upon without consultation of those individuals that had served the colonial interests of Britain or France. One such agreement solely between Britain and France (to the exclusion of Sherif Hussein ibn Ali), signed in total secrecy until Lenin released the full text, was the Sykes-Picot Agreement. Another influential document written without the consensus of the local population was the Balfour Declaration.\n\nAs former director of the Israeli intelligence agency Mossad, Efraim Halevy, now a director at the Hebrew University said,\n\nHe went on to give an example,\nHistorian Jim Crow, of Newcastle University, has said:\n\nAs of 2006, the Arab World accounts for two-fifths of the gross domestic product and three-fifths of the trade of the wider Muslim World.\n\nThe Arab states are mostly, although not exclusively, developing economies and derive their export revenues from oil and gas, or the sale of other raw materials. Recent years have seen significant economic growth in the Arab World, due largely to an increase in oil and gas prices, which tripled between 2001 and 2006, but also due to efforts by some states to diversify their economic base. Industrial production has risen, for example the amount of steel produced between 2004 and 2005 rose from 8.4 to 19 million tonnes. (Source: Opening speech of Mahmoud Khoudri, Algeria's Industry Minister, at the 37th General Assembly of the Iron & Steel Arab Union, Algiers, May 2006). However even 19 million tons pa still only represents 1.7% of global steel production, and remains inferior to the production of countries like Brazil.\n\nThe main economic organisations in the Arab World are the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC), comprising the states in the Persian Gulf, and the Union of the Arab Maghreb (UMA), made up of North African States. The GCC has achieved some success in financial and monetary terms, including plans to establish a common currency in the Persian Gulf region. Since its foundation in 1989, the UMA's most significant accomplishment has been the establishment of a 7000 km highway crossing North Africa from Mauritania to Libya's border with Egypt. The central stretch of the highway, expected to be completed in 2010, will cross Morocco, Algeria and Tunisia. In recent years a new term has been coined to define a greater economic region: the MENA region (standing for Middle East and North Africa) is becoming increasingly popular, especially with support from the current US administration.\n\nAs of August 2009 it was reported that Saudi Arabia is the strongest Arab economy according to World Bank.\n\nSaudi Arabia remains the top Arab economy in terms of total GDP. It is Asia's eleventh largest economy, followed by Egypt and Algeria, which were also the second and third largest economies in Africa (after South Africa), in 2006. In terms of GDP per capita, Qatar is the richest developing country in the world.\n\nThe total GDP of all Arab countries in 1999 was US$531.2 billion. By grouping all the latest GDP figures, the total Arab world GDP is estimated to be worth at least $2.8 trillion in 2011. This is only smaller than the GDP of US, China, Japan and Germany.\n\nThe Arab World stretches across more than of North Africa and the part of North-East Africa and South-West Asia. The Asian part of the Arab world is called the \"Mashriq\". Algeria, Morocco, Tunisia, Libya and often Mauritania are the \"Maghreb\" or \"Maghrib\", while Egypt and Sudan are referred to as \"Nile Valley\", Egypt is a transcontinental country by virtue of the Sinai Peninsula, which is in Asia.\n\nThe term \"Arab\" often connotes the Middle East, but the larger (and more populous) part of the Arab World is North Africa. Its eight million square kilometers include two of the largest countries of the African continent, Algeria (2.4 million km) in the center of the region and Sudan (1.9 million km) in the southeast. Algeria is about three-quarters the size of India, or about one-and-a-half times the size of Alaska, the largest state in the United States. The largest country in the Arab Middle East is Saudi Arabia (2 million km).\n\nAt the other extreme, the smallest autonomous mainland Arab country in North Africa and the Middle East is Lebanon (10,452 km), and the smallest island Arab country is Bahrain (665 km).\n\nNotably, every Arab country borders a sea or ocean, with the exception of the Arab region of northern Chad, which is completely landlocked. Iraq is actually nearly landlocked, as it has only a very narrow access to the Persian Gulf.\n\nThe political borders of the Arab world have wandered, leaving Arab minorities in non-Arab countries of the Sahel and the Horn of Africa as well as in the Middle Eastern countries of Cyprus, Turkey and Iran, and also leaving non-Arab minorities in Arab countries. However, the basic geography of sea, desert and mountain provides the enduring natural boundaries for this region.\nThe Arab world straddles two continents, Africa and Asia. It is mainly oriented along an east-west axis.\n\nArab Africa comprises the entire northern third of the continent. It is surrounded by water on three sides (west, north, and east) and desert or desert scrubland on the fourth (south).\n\nIn the west, it is bounded by the shores of the Atlantic Ocean. From northeast to southwest, Morocco, Western Sahara (mostly unilaterally annexed by Morocco), and Mauritania make up the roughly 2,000 kilometers of Arab Atlantic coastline. The southwestern sweep of the coast is gentle but substantial, such that Mauritania's capital, Nouakchott (18°N, 16°W), is far enough west to share longitude with Iceland (13–22°W). Nouakchott is the westernmost capital of the Arab World and the third-westernmost in Africa, and sits on the Atlantic fringe of the southwestern Sahara. Next south along the coast from Mauritania is Senegal, whose abrupt border belies the gradient in culture from Arab to indigenous African that historically characterizes this part of West Africa.\n\nArab Africa's boundary to the north is again a continental boundary, the Mediterranean Sea. This boundary begins in the west with the narrow Strait of Gibraltar, the thirteen kilometer wide channel that connects the Mediterranean with the Atlantic to the west, and separates Morocco from Spain to the north. East along the coast from Morocco are Algeria, Tunisia, and Libya, followed by Egypt, which forms the region's (and the continent's) northeastern corner. The coast turns briefly but sharply south at Tunisia, slopes more gently southeastward through the Libyan capital of Tripoli, and bumps north through Libya's second city, Benghazi, before turning straight east again through Egypt's second city, Alexandria, at the mouth of the Nile. Along with the spine of Italy to its north, Tunisia thus marks the junction of western and eastern Mediterranean, and a cultural transition as well: west of Egypt begins the region of the Arab World known as the Maghreb include (Libya, Tunisia, Algeria, Morocco and Mauritania).\n\nHistorically the 4,000-kilometer Mediterranean boundary has fluttered. Population centers north of it in Europe have invited contact and Arab exploration—mostly friendly, though sometimes not. Islands and peninsulas near the Arab coast have changed hands. The islands of Sicily and Malta lie just a hundred kilometers east of the Tunisian city of Carthage, which has been a point of contact with Europe since its founding in the first millennium BCE; both Sicily and Malta at times have been part of the Arab World. Just across the Strait of Gibraltar from Morocco, regions of the Iberian peninsula were part of the Arab World throughout the Middle Ages, extending the northern boundary at times to the foothills of the Pyrenees and leaving a substantial mark on local and wider European and Western culture.\n\nThe northern boundary of the African Arab world has also fluttered briefly in the other direction, first through the Crusades and later through the imperial involvement of France, Britain, Spain, and Italy. Another visitor from northern shores, Turkey, controlled the east of the region for centuries, though not as a colonizer. Spain still maintains two small enclaves, Ceuta and Melilla (called \"Morocco Espanol\"), along the otherwise Moroccan coast. Overall this wave has ebbed, though like the Arab expansion north it has left its mark. The proximity of North Africa to Europe has always encouraged interaction, and this continues with Arab immigration to Europe and European interest in the Arab countries today. However, population centers and the physical fact of the sea keeps this boundary of the Arab World settled on the Mediterranean coastline.\n\nTo the east, the Red Sea defines the boundary between Africa and Asia, and thus also between Arab Africa and the Arab Middle East. This sea is a long and narrow waterway with a northwest tilt, stretching 2,300 kilometers from Egypt's Sinai peninsula southeast to the Bab-el-Mandeb strait between Djibouti in Africa and Yemen in Arabia but on average just 150 kilometers wide. Though the sea is navigable along its length, historically much contact between Arab Africa and the Arab Middle East has been either overland across the Sinai or by sea across the Mediterranean or the narrow Bab al Mendeb strait. From northwest to southeast, Egypt, Sudan, and Eritrea form the African coastline, with Djibouti marking Bab al Mendeb's African shore.\n\nSoutheast along the coast from Djibouti is Somalia, but the Somali coast soon makes a 90-degree turn and heads northeast, mirroring a bend in the coast of Yemen across the water to the north and defining the south coast of the Gulf of Aden. The Somali coast then takes a hairpin turn back southwest to complete the horn of Africa. For six months of the year the monsoon winds blow from up equatorial Somalia, past Arabia and over the small Yemeni archipelago of Socotra, to rain on India; they then switch directions and blow back. Hence the east- and especially southeast-coast boundary of Arab Africa has historically been a gateway for maritime trade and cultural exchange with both East Africa and the subcontinent. The trade winds also help explain the presence of the Comoros islands, an Arab-African country, off the coast of Mozambique, near Madagascar in the Indian Ocean, the southernmost part of the Arab World.\n\nThe southern boundary of Arab North Africa is the strip of scrubland known as the Sahel that crosses the continent south of the Sahara.\n\nThe West Asian Arab region comprises the Arabian Peninsula, most of the Levant (excluding Cyprus and Israel), most of Mesopotamia (excluding parts of Turkey and Iran) and the Persian Gulf region. The peninsula is roughly a tilted rectangle that leans back against the slope of northeast Africa, the long axis pointing toward Turkey and Europe.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "369646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=369646", "title": "Automatic vehicle location", "text": "Automatic vehicle location\n\nAutomatic vehicle location (AVL or ~locating; telelocating in EU) is a means for automatically determining and transmitting the geographic location of a vehicle. This vehicle location data, from one or more vehicles, may then be collected by a vehicle tracking system to manage an overview of vehicle travel. As of 2017, GPS technology has reached the point of having the transmitting device be smaller than the size of a human thumb (thus easier to conceal), able to run 6 months or more between battery chargings, easy to communicate with smartphones (merely requiring a duplicate SIM card from one's mobile phone carrier in most cases) — all for less than $20 USD.\n\nMost commonly, the location is determined using GPS and the transmission mechanism is SMS, GPRS, or a satellite or terrestrial radio from the vehicle to a radio receiver. A single antenna unit covering all the needed frequency bands can be employed. GSM and EVDO are the most common services applied, because of the low data rate needed for AVL, and the low cost and near-ubiquitous nature of these public networks. The low bandwidth requirements also allow for satellite technology to receive telemetry data at a moderately higher cost, but across a global coverage area and into very remote locations not covered well by terrestrial radio or public carriers.\nOther options for determining actual location, for example in environments where GPS illumination is poor, are dead reckoning, i.e. inertial navigation, or active RFID systems or cooperative RTLS systems. These systems may be applied in combination in some cases. In addition, terrestrial radio positioning systems using a low frequency switched packet radio network have also been used as an alternative to GPS based systems.\n\nAutomatic vehicle locating is a powerful tool for managing fleets of vehicles such as service vehicles, emergency vehicles, and public transport vehicles such as buses and trains. It is also used to track mobile assets, such as non wheeled construction equipment, non motorized trailers, and mobile power generators.\n\nAnother purpose of tracking is to provide graded service or to manage a large driver and crewing staff effectively. For example, suppose an ambulance fleet has an objective of arriving at the location of a call for service within six minutes of receiving the request. Using an AVL system allows to evaluate the locations of all vehicles in service with drivers and other crew in order to pick the vehicle that will most likely arrive at the destination fastest, (meeting the service objective).\n\nAmateur radio and some cellular or PCS wireless systems use direction finding or triangulation of transmitter signals radiated by the mobile. This is sometimes called radio direction finding or RDF. The simplest forms of these systems calculate the bearing from two fixed sites to the mobile. This creates a triangle with endpoints at the two fixed points and the mobile. Trigonometry tells you roughly where the mobile transmitter is located. In wireless telephone systems, the phones transmit continually when off-hook, making continual tracking and the collection of many location samples possible. This is one type of location system required by Federal Communications Commission Rules for wireless Enhanced 911.\n\nMotorola offered a 1970s-era system based on the United States Coast Guard LORAN maritime navigation system. The LORAN system was intended for ships but signal levels on the US east- and west-coast areas were adequate for use with receivers in automobiles. The system may have been marketed under the Motorola model name \"Metricom\". It consisted of an LF LORAN receiver and data interface box/modem connected to a separate two-way radio. The receiver and interface calculated a latitude and longitude in degrees, decimal degrees format based on the LORAN signals. This was sent over the radio as MDC-1200 or MDC-4800 data to a system controller, which plotted the mobile's approximate location on a map. The system worked reliably but sometimes had problems with electrical noise in urban areas. Sparking electric trolley poles or industrial plants which radiated electrical noise sometime overwhelmed the LORAN signals, affecting the system's ability to determine the mobile's geolocation. Because of the limited resolution, this type of system was impractical for small communities or operational areas such as a pit mine or port.\n\nTo track and locate vehicles along fixed routes, a technology called Signpost transmitters is employed. This is used on transit routes and rail lines where the vehicles to be tracked continually operated on the same linear route. A transponder or RFID chip along the vehicle route would be polled as the train or bus traverses its route. As each transponder was passed, the moving vehicle would query and receive an ack, or handshake, from the signpost transmitter. A transmitter on the mobile would report passing the signpost to a system controller. This allows supervision, a call center, or a dispatch center to monitor the progress of the vehicle and assess whether or not the vehicle was \"on schedule\". These systems are an alternative inside tunnels or other conveyances where GPS signals are blocked by terrain.\n\nThe low price and ubiquity of Global Positioning System or GPS equipment has lent itself to more accurate and reliable telelocation systems. GPS signals are impervious to most electrical noise sources and don't require the user to install an entire system. Usually only a receiver to collect signals from the satellite segment is installed in each vehicle and radio or GSM to communicate the collected location data with a dispatch point.\n\nLarge private telelocation or AVL systems send data from GPS receivers in vehicles to a dispatch center over their private, user-owned radio backbone. These systems are used for businesses like parcel delivery and ambulances. Smaller systems which don't justify building a separate radio system use cellular or PCS data services to communicate location data from vehicles to their dispatching center. Location data is periodically polled from each vehicle in a fleet by a central controller or computer. In the simplest systems, data from the GPS receiver is displayed on a map allowing humans to determine the location of each vehicle. More complex systems feed the data into a computer assisted dispatch system which automates the process. For example, the computer assisted dispatch system may check the location of a call for service and then pick a list of the four closest ambulances. This narrows the dispatcher's choice from the entire fleet to an easier choice of four vehicles.\n\nSome wireless carriers such as Nextel have decided GPS was the best way to provide the mandated location data for wireless Enhanced 9-1-1. Newer Nextel radios have embedded GPS receivers which are polled if 9-1-1 is dialed. The 9-1-1 center is provided with latitude and longitude from the radio's GPS receiver. In centers with computer-aided dispatch, the system may assign an address to the call based on these coordinates or may project an icon depicting the caller's location onto a map of the area.\n\nThe main purpose of using AVL is not only to locate the vehicles, but also to obtain information about engine data, fuel consumption, driver data and sensor data from i.e. doors, freezer room on trucks or air pressure. Such data can be obtained via the CAN-bus, via direct connections to AVL systems or via open bus systems such as UFDEX that both sends and receives data via SMS or GPRS in pure ASCII text format. Because most AVL consists of two parts, GPS and GSM modem with additional embedded AVL software contained in a microcontroller, most AVL systems are fixed for its purposes unless they connect to an open bus system for expansion possibilities.\n\nWith an open bus system the users can send invoices based on goods delivered with exact location, time and date data where if connected to scale, RFID or barcode readers, can make a fairly good automated system to avoid human errors.\n\nIn countries with high prices on gasoline external fuel sensors are used to prevent cases of fuel theft.\n\nAnother scenario for sensor functions is to connect the AVL to driver information, to collect data about driving time, stops, or even driver absence from the vehicle. If the driver/worker conditions is such as the hourly rates for driving and working outside is not the same, this can be monitored by sensors, by using iButton or other personal identification devices. Later by analyzing log-file it is possible to get reports on any kind of events, like stops, visited streets, speed limits violations, etc.\n\nIt might be helpful to draw a distinction between vehicle location systems which track automatically and event activated tracking systems which track when triggered by an event. There is increasingly crossover between the different systems and those with experience of this sector will be able to draw on a number of examples which break the rule.\n\nA.V.L (Automatic Vehicle Location)\nThis type of vehicle tracking is normally used in the fleet or driver management sector. The unit is configured to automatically transmit its location at a set time interval, e.g. every 5 minutes. The unit is activated when the ignition is switched on/off.\n\nE.A.T.S (Events Activated Tracking system)\nThis type of system is primarily used in connection with vehicle or driver security solutions. If, for example a thief breaks into your car and attempts to steal it, the tracking system can be triggered by the immobiliser unit or motion sensor being activated. A monitoring bureau, will then be automatically notified that the unit has been activated and begin tracking the vehicle.\n\nSome products on the market are a hybrid of both AVL and EATS technology. However industry practice has tended to lean towards a separation of these functions. It is worth taking note that vehicle tracking products tend to fall into one, not both of the technologies.\n\nAVL technology is predominately used when applying vehicle tracking to fleet or driver management solutions. The use of Automatic Vehicle Location is given in the following scenario; A car breaks down by the side of the road and the occupant calls a vehicle recovery company. The vehicle recovery company has several vehicles operating in the area. Without needing to call each driver to check his location the dispatcher can pinpoint the nearest recovery vehicle and assign it to the new job. If you were to incorporate the other aspects of vehicle telematics into this scenario; the dispatcher, rather than phoning the recovery vehicle operative, could transmit the job details directly to the operative's mobile data device, who would then use the in-vehicle satellite navigation to aid his journey to the job.\n\nEATS technology is predominately used when applying vehicle tracking to vehicle security solutions. An example of this distinction is given in the following scenario; A construction company owns some pieces of plant machinery that are regularly left unattended, at weekends, on building sites. Thieves break onto one site and a piece equipment, such as a digger, is loaded on the back of a flat bed truck and then driven away. Typically the ignition wouldn’t need to be turned on and as such most of the AVL products available wouldn’t typically be activated. Only products that included a unit that was activated by a motion sensor or GeoFence alarm event, would be activated.\n\nBoth AVL and EATS systems track, but often for different purposes.\n\nVehicle location technologies can be used in the following scenarios:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1884952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884952", "title": "Carl Troll", "text": "Carl Troll\n\nCarl Troll (24 December 1899 in Gabersee – 21 July 1975 in Bonn), was a German geographer, brother of botanist Wilhelm Troll. From 1919 until 1922 Troll studied biology, chemistry, geology, geography and physics at the Universität in München. In 1921 he obtained his doctorate in botany and in 1925 his habilitation in geography. Between 1922 and 1927 he worked as an assistant at the Geography Institute in Munich. Troll was engaged in research in the ecology and geography of mountainous lands: between 1926 and 1929 went on a research journey throughout South American Andean countries where he visited northern Chile, Bolivia, Peru, Ecuador, Colombia, and Panama. In 1933 and 1934 his research interests took him to East and South Africa; in 1937 Troll was in Ethiopia; and in 1954 he visited Mexico. \n\nIn 1930 he became professor of colonial and overseas geography in Berlin, and in 1938 professor of geography in Bonn. Troll, who utilised aerial photographs in his research, coined the term Landscape ecology in 1939. He developed this terminology and many early concepts of landscape ecology and of high mountain ecology and geography as part of his early work applying aerial photographs interpretation to studies of interactions between environment and vegetation and from his research travels in the mountainous regions of Asia, Africa and South America, as well as his native Europe. He developed seasonal climatic charts and three-dimensional climatic classification from hydrological, biological and economical data. \n\nCarl Troll was president of the International Geographical Union from 1960 to 1964\n\nCompared to other scientist of the first half of the 20th century Troll's Andean work stands out by being free of developmentalist thought and there is \"no evidence of triumphalism of Western science in his Andean work\". Vertical zonation is the most acclaimed part of Trolls work in the Andes building upon the work of Alexander von Humboldt.\n\nCarl Troll argued that the development of the Inca state in the central Andes was aided by conditions that allows for the elaboration of the staple food chuño. Chuño which can be stored for long times is made of potato dried at freezing temperatures that are common at nighttime in the southern Peruvian highlands. Contradicting the link between the Inca state and chuño is that other crops such as maize can also be with dried only sun. Troll did also argue that llamas, the Inca's pack animal, can be found in its largest numbers in this very same region. It is worth considering the maximum extent of the Inca Empire roughly coincided with the greatest distribution of alpacas and llamas in Pre-Hispanic America. The link between the Andean biomes of puna and páramo, pastoralism and the Inca state is a matter of research. As a third point Troll pointed out irrigation technology as advantageous to the Inca state-building. While Troll theorized environmental influences on the Inca Empire he opposed environmental determinism arguing that culture lied at the core of the Inca civilization.\n\n"}
{"id": "18005052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18005052", "title": "Center for Southeastern Tropical Advanced Remote Sensing", "text": "Center for Southeastern Tropical Advanced Remote Sensing\n\nThe Center for Southeastern Tropical Advanced Remote Sensing (CSTARS) is a ground station that receives imagery data from a variety of remote sensing satellites. CSTARS is owned and operated by the Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science, a college within the University of Miami.\n\nCSTARS is a state-of-the-art real-time satellite reception and analysis facility located in southern Miami-Dade county, Florida. Its mission is collect satellite imagery for environmental monitoring of hurricanes, volcanoes, landslides and other natural or man made disasters.\n\nIn 2000, the University of Miami purchased the United States Naval Observatory Secondary National Time Standard Facility. The purchase included of land with several buildings and a 20-meter antenna once used for Very Long Baseline Interferometry. This large antenna is currently used to support scientific communications with the Antarctic (on behalf of the National Science Foundation). Two 11 meter X-band antennas were added to create a high bandwidth data reception capability for the downlink of satellite image data. Scientists and staff perform research and analysis activities on-site as well.\n\nThe station mask covers a very large area stretching from Hudson Bay in northeastern Canada down to northern South America in the south. The mask includes Central America, the eastern Pacific Ocean, the Caribbean Basin, the Gulf of Mexico and much of the Eastern US including Eastern Seaboard. CSTARS provides a VoIP communication system for the Amundsen–Scott South Pole Station.\n\nCSTARS is located on the Richmond campus of the University of Miami at .\n\nCSTARS played a vital role in the damage assessment and relief efforts of New Orleans and the Gulf Coast in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina. The first remote sensing images illustrating the extent of the flooding in New Orleans were collected at CSTARS.\n\nThe United States Department of Homeland Security has included CSTARS as one of its \"Centers of Excellence\" so that CSTARS will work with the Stevens Institute of Technology to research port security and maritime monitoring issues.\n\nThe Office of Naval Research awarded CSTARS a grant to support satellite based research studies on internal waves and typhoons in the western Pacific Ocean.\n\nCSTARS participated in a Pew Charitable Trusts study to examine how to protect one of the largest Marine Protected (MPA) areas in the world through the utilization of commercially available earth imaging satellites.\n\nAdmiral James Stavridis, former commanding officer of United States Southern Command, writes about CSTARS in his book \"Partnership for the Americas\". In chapter 7 entitled \"Innovation\", he describes how CSTARS aided SOUTHCOM in humanitarian assistance and disaster relief (HA/DR) efforts during his tenure in the SOUTHCOM AOR (i.e., in Latin America and the Caribbean):\n\n"}
{"id": "4225810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4225810", "title": "Centre for Cities", "text": "Centre for Cities\n\nThe Centre for Cities is an independent, non-partisan urban policy research unit and a charity registered in England. The Centre's main goal is to understand how and why economic growth and change takes place in the United Kingdom's cities.\n\nThe Centre for Cities was launched in March 2005 as part of IPPR and became independent in November 2007.\n\nThe Centre produces an annual Cities Outlook report assessing the economic performance of the 64 largest towns and cities in the United Kingdom. From 2016 onwards the Centre for Cities reevaluated its methodology for defining Primary Urban Areas, based on this it now recognises 63 Primary urban areas in the UK, with Grimsby and Hastings dropped and Basildon, Exeter and Slough included and Bolton and Rochdale merged with the Manchester PUA.\n\nIn 2018, the Centre for Cities released a report challenging the Government's approach to improving UK business productivity. They suggest that the Government should focus on the UK's weaker regions to attract more productive exporters, and not just focus on the UK's least productive companies in general.\n\n"}
{"id": "1192058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1192058", "title": "Edgar Towner", "text": "Edgar Towner\n\nEdgar Thomas Towner, VC, MC (19 April 1890 – 18 August 1972) was an Australian recipient of the Victoria Cross, the highest decoration for gallantry \"in the face of the enemy\" that can be awarded to members of the British and Commonwealth armed forces. A lieutenant in the Australian Imperial Force during the First World War, Towner was awarded the Victoria Cross for his actions on 1 September 1918, during an attack on Mont St. Quentin on the Western Front.\n\nBorn in Queensland to a farming family, Towner enlisted in the Australian Imperial Force in 1915. Posted to the transport section of the 25th Battalion, he served in Egypt until his unit was sent to the Western Front. He then transferred to the 2nd Machine Gun Battalion where he was commissioned as a lieutenant and twice mentioned in despatches for his leadership. During June 1918, Towner led a machine gun section in attack near Morlancourt and assisted the infantry in reaching its objectives under heavy fire, for which he was awarded the Military Cross. In September, again commanding a machine gun section, he was involved in the Allied counteroffensive that broke the German lines at Mont St. Quentin and Péronne. Fighting for thirty hours after being wounded, his \"conspicuous bravery, initiative and devotion to duty\" earned him the Victoria Cross, which was presented by King George V in April 1919.\n\nDischarged in August, Towner returned to Australia. He was appointed a director of the Russleigh Pastoral Company, and briefly re-enlisted during the Second World War, when he was promoted to major. A keen geographer, he was awarded the Dr Thomson Foundation Gold Medal in 1956 for his geographical work. Unmarried, he died in 1972 at the age of 82.\n\nEdgar Towner was born on 19 April 1890, at Glencoe Station near Blackall, Queensland, to Edgar Thomas Towner, a grazing farmer, and his Irish wife Greta (née Herley). He was educated at Blackall State School and in Rockhampton, although he also received private instruction from his mother. After leaving school Towner worked on his father's grazing property until 1912, when he acquired land of his own. He named the property \"Valparaiso\" and worked on its development until the outbreak of the First World War.\n\nOn 4 January 1915, Towner enlisted in the Australian Imperial Force. Assigned to the transport section of the 25th Battalion as a private, he embarked aboard HMAT \"Aeneas\" from Brisbane on 29 June, bound for Egypt. The troopship arrived in August, and the battalion spent the rest of the month training in the desert before transferring to the Gallipoli Peninsula. Towner, however, remained in Egypt with the army's transportation elements.\n\nFollowing the Allied evacuation of Gallipoli, the 25th Battalion returned to Egypt in December 1915, where Towner rejoined its ranks on 10 January 1916. He was promoted to sergeant on 1 February, before departing with the battalion at Alexandria the following month to join the British Expeditionary Force on the Western Front. Disembarking at Marseilles, the unit was the first Australian battalion to arrive in France.\n\nIn July 1916, the 25th Battalion took part in its first major Western Front action at the Battle of Pozières, part of the Somme offensive. The battalion suffered 785 casualties between 25 July and 7 August. It was briefly transferred to a \"quieter sector of the front in Belgium\" before returning to action on the Somme in October. On 3 November, Towner was transferred to the Australian Machine Gun Corps and was assigned to the 2nd Machine Gun Battalion of the 2nd Australian Division, and was allotted to the 7th Brigade's Machine Gun Company. He was commissioned as a second lieutenant fifteen days later, and assumed command of the battalion's transport section.\n\nPromoted to lieutenant on 24 February 1917, Towner's service with his transport section earned him praise for his \"devotion to duty and consistent good work\", and on 9 April he was Mentioned in the Despatches of Field Marshal Sir Douglas Haig. Towner was granted leave to the United Kingdom in January 1918. He received a second Mention in Despatches on 7 April 1918, the notification of which was published in a supplement to the \"London Gazette\" on 28 May.\n\nOn the night of 10/11 June 1918, Towner was in command of a machine gun section during an attack to the south of Morlancourt. One of the first to reach the objective, he deployed his section and got its guns into action \"very quickly\". By using captured German machine guns he was able to increase his section's fire and provide support to the company on his right as it advanced, seized, and consolidated its position. During the morning of 11 June, one of the posts held by the Australian infantry was blown in by German artillery; braving machine gun and sniper fire, Towner went out in daylight to help reorganise the post. Cited for his \"cheerful and untiring attitude\" and for \"set[ing] a conspicuous example\", Towner was awarded the Military Cross for his actions. The announcement of the award and accompanying citation was published in a supplement to the \"London Gazette\" on 24 September 1918.\n\nOn 1 September 1918, Towner was in command of No. 3 Section of the 7th Machine Gun Company during an attack on Mont St. Quentin, near Péronne. Armed with four Vickers machine guns, the section was attached to the right flank of the 24th Australian Infantry Battalion, whose principal objective was to seize the summit of Mont St. Quentin. To accomplish this, the battalion would have to advance through the village of Feuillaucourt before moving down to the Péronne road. The Australians began their advance at 06:00 behind an artillery screen, with Towner's section covering a front of . Visibility was limited by rain, and Australian casualties soon began to mount. Locating a German machine gun that was causing heavy losses among the advancing troops, Towner rushed the position and single-handedly killed the crew with his revolver. Having captured the gun, he then turned it on the Germans.\n\nOnce Feuillaucourt had fallen, the 24th Battalion continued to the Péronne road. However, the Germans had occupied a copse of trees and put up strong resistance, halting the advance. German troops were observed massing for a counter-attack, so Towner moved forward with several of his men, two Vickers guns, and the captured German gun, and brought the assembling Germans under concentrated fire, inflicting many casualties. Attempting to retire, a party of twenty-five German soldiers were cut off by Towner's guns and taken prisoner. Under heavy incoming fire, Towner then scouted over open terrain to locate advantageous positions from which his guns could offer further support. When he moved his section forward, the machine gunners were able to engage more groups of German soldiers; their aggressive action enabled the advance to be renewed, and the battalion attained the cover of a sunken section of the Péronne road. However, on rejoining them Towner found that his section was growing short of ammunition, so he made his way back across the fire-swept ground and located a German machine gun, which he brought forward along with several boxes of ammunition. This he brought into action \"in full view of the enemy\"; his effective fire forced the Germans to retire further, and allowed one of the stalled Australian flanks to push ahead.\n\nGerman machine gunners had occupied a commanding vantage overlooking the sunken road, and began to rain down heavy fire around Towner's position. One of the bullets struck his helmet, inflicting a gaping wound to his scalp. Refusing to be evacuated for medical treatment, Towner continued firing his gun as the German pressure increased and the situation grew critical. Eventually the Australian infantry were forced to retire a short distance, but with all its crew having become casualties, one gun was left behind. Alone, Towner dashed out over no man's land and retrieved the weapon. With this gun he \"continued to engage the enemy whenever they appeared\", putting a German machine gun out of action with his accurate fire.\n\nThroughout the night, Towner frequented the front lines and \"continued to fight and ... inspire his men\". He provided supporting fire for the 21st Australian Infantry Battalion as they assaulted a heavily fortified crater on Mont St. Quentin's summit, and repeatedly reconnoitred the German position to reported on troop movements. The next morning his section assisted in repulsing a large German counterattack before Towner was finally evacuated with exhaustion—thirty hours after being wounded. Initially admitted to the 41st Casualty Clearing Station, he was transported by train to the 2nd Red Cross Hospital at Rouen. For his actions during the battle, Towner was awarded the Victoria Cross—the third of six Australians to receive the medal during the fighting around Mont St. Quentin and Péronne.\n\nThe full citation for Towner's Victoria Cross appeared in a supplement to the \"London Gazette\" on 14 December 1918, reading:\n\nFollowing his recuperation, Towner was granted three weeks leave to England from 14 September 1918. He rejoined his unit on 12 October and, for six days, was attached to the School of Instruction. Following thirteen days leave in France during late November, he returned again to the 2nd Machine Gun Battalion on 12 December.\n\nOn 10 April 1919, Towner attended an investiture ceremony in the ballroom of Buckingham Palace, during which he was decorated with his Victoria Cross and Military Cross by King George V. Three weeks later he boarded HT \"Karagola\", bound for Australia. Disembarking at Sydney on 14 June 1919 he made his way to Brisbane, and was discharged from the Australian Imperial Force on 16 August 1919.\n\nTowner resettled on his property, but was forced to sell Valparaiso in 1922 after he was unable to raise sufficient funds to purchase livestock. He spent the next three years working as a jackaroo, until he entered into a partnership on Kaloola station, a property located near Longreach, in 1925. Towner eventually bought out his partner and assumed another partnership with the Russleigh Pastoral Company, Isisford. He was later appointed a director of the company.\n\nWith the Second World War looming, Towner enlisted in the Citizens Military Force on 8 August 1939 and was appointed a captain to the 26th Battalion. After a period as a company commander he was promoted to temporary major and second-in-command of the battalion, under fellow Victoria Cross recipient Lieutenant Colonel Harry Murray. However, Towner retired from the army due to ill health on 21 February 1942, and returned to his property at Kaloola.\n\nA keen geographer, Towner would often disappear into the bush for weeks on end, for study or exploration. As a fellow of the Royal Geographical Society of Australia and member of the Royal Historical Society of New South Wales, he took a particular interest in researching the life of the explorer Sir Thomas Mitchell. In 1946, he successfully lobbied the Australian Government to issue a postage stamp commemorating the centenary of Mitchell's discoveries in central Queensland. He addressed the Royal Geographical Society of Australasia in Brisbane in 1955, and was awarded the Dr Thomson Foundation Gold Medal for his geographical work the following year. Towner's address was published in 1957, in a booklet entitled \"Lake Eyre and its Tributaries\".\n\nTowner never married, and on 18 August 1972 died at Longreach Base Hospital at the age of 82. His funeral took place three days later, with a large number of Longreach citizens lining the streets to see his coffin pass by atop a gun carriage. Following a service at St Andrew's Church, he was buried with full military honours at the Longreach Town Cemetery. By the time of his death, Towner had amassed an farm containing 25,000 sheep. He remains the highest-decorated serviceman from Queensland. On 24 April 2009, a statue of Towner crafted by Melbourne sculptor William Eicholtz was unveiled in his birth town of Blackall. Inspired by an essay written by a local schoolboy, the community raised A$80,000 to commission a monument in Towner's memory.\n\n"}
{"id": "8670001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8670001", "title": "EgyptSat 1", "text": "EgyptSat 1\n\nEgyptSat 1 or MisrSat-1 is Egypt's first Earth remote sensing satellite. This satellite was jointly built by Egypt's National Authority for Remote Sensing and Space Sciences together with the Yuzhnoye Design Bureau in Ukraine and was launched on board a Dnepr rocket on 17 April 2007 from the Baikonur Cosmodrome.\n\nThe effort was spearheaded by Dr. Aly Sadek, chairman of the Egyptian Council for Space Science and Technology Research. It in many ways was considered a huge step for the Egyptians since it marked the first time they opted for technology transfer during the manufacturing the satellite rather than simply purchasing one (as in case of the Nilesat satellites). On 23 October 2010, the National Authority for Remote Sensing and Space Sciences announced that control and communication with the satellite had been lost since July 2010.\n\nIn 2001, Egypt posted an international tender for the development of the first Egyptian satellite for the observation and remote sensing and bidders from Ukraine,UK, Russia, Korea and Italy competed for the deal.\n\non June 26, 2001 KB Yuzhnoe design bureau from Ukraine announced winner and on October 24, a contract had been signed in Egypt.\n\nA consortium consisted of KB Yuzhnoe design bureau and sub-contrators Ukrainian companies:\n\nThe Egyptian space program in fact started in the nineteen fifties but it wasn't until the \nestablishment of the Egyptian Space Council in 16/5/1998 and the approval of a year later in 26/5/1999 of the Egyptian Space Program within the National Authority of Remote Sensing and Space Sciences.\n\n\nThe objective of the three satellites is to provide comprehensive images for Egyptian land\n\nEgyptsat 1 is considered a miniaturized satellite weighing 100 kg and is carrying two devices: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "24609179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24609179", "title": "Esri International User Conference", "text": "Esri International User Conference\n\nProduced by the Environmental Systems Research Institute (Esri, formerly ESRI), the Esri International User Conference (Esri UC) is the world's largest event dedicated to geographic information system (GIS) technology. It is held annually in the United States, usually for one week in July at the San Diego Convention Center in San Diego, California. The Esri UC dates back to 1981. In 2008, conference attendance grew to more than 14,000 attendees.\n\nThe conference offers more than 600 GIS user presentation sessions, 300 exhibitors, 275 technical workshops, 100 special interest, regional, and user group meetings, and 600 map posters and special displays from more than 100 countries. Thousands of professionals from different industries attend the Esri UC. \n\nThere are more than 40 conference tracks divided into the categories of technology, science and modeling, and industry. The tracks include the topics of business, defense, education, environment, government, health and human services, natural resources, public safety, transportation, and utilities. \n\nThere are also preconference seminars, a Plenary Session, a Map Gallery and Virtual Map Gallery, GIS concept and industry sessions, panel sessions, lightning talks, an Esri Showcase, a Conservation Showcase, an Academic GIS Program Fair, a Special Achievement in GIS (SAG) Awards Ceremony, and special displays of GIS by organizations such as the National Geographic Society, the National Academy of Science, and the Smithsonian. The Exhibit Hall runs for three days during the event – Tuesday through Thursday – and provides access to Esri business partners and alliances, hardware and software vendors, and solution and data providers. There are additional activities to participate in including a 5K, Golf Tournament, and Tennis Tournament. \n\nIn 2009, four conferences took place concurrently with the Esri UC (the Esri Business GIS Summit, Esri Education User Conference, Esri Homeland Security GIS Summit, and Esri Survey & Engineering GIS Summit.) The Esri Defense and Intelligence Executive Track, Esri Senior Executive Seminar, Remote Sensing and GIS gathering, and Climate Change GIS Special Program also took place during the event. \n\nA certain amount of complimentary conference registrations are often available with an organization's ArcGIS software maintenance plan.\n\nThe first Esri UC took place in 1981 in Redlands, California, at Esri Headquarters, with 15 users, and has been held annually ever since including being held in Palm Springs, California, from 1987 through 1996. The conference was the brainchild of Esri President and Founder Jack Dangermond.\n\nKeynote Speakers\n\nPrior to 1986, no keynote speakers were featured.\n\n\nAn orientation session is offered for new attendees at the start of the conference to help them prepare for the week and plan their schedule. The Esri UC comprehensively covers GIS from the perspective of Esri's software and approach; the technical workshops focus on Esri products, and occasionally on software by other vendors as it relates to Esri's products. GIS software by other vendors – Autodesk, MapInfo, Google, and others – is not the focus of the conference, although translation and interoperability issues may be addressed during technical workshops.\n\nA number of awards are presented during the Plenary Session and throughout the conference week to honor organizations and individuals doing innovative and meaningful things with GIS. Recent plenary award presentations have included the Enterprise Application Award, Making a Difference Award, GIS Humanitarian Award, The President's Award, and Lifetime Achievement Award. Other conference aspects that highlight awards include the Special Achievement in GIS (SAG) Awards ceremony, Map Gallery and Virtual Map Gallery, User Software Applications Fair, sports activities, and other various contests such as scavenger hunts, satellite image picture puzzles (the Where in the World contest), and the closing session question poll. \n\nThe conference's Student Assistantship Program was started in the early 1990s. Each year, up to 60 accepted students from around the world spend the week monitoring sessions and assisting with other event logistics. The assistantship is unpaid but provides conference registration, hotel accommodations, a stipend for meals, and free time to attend sessions and network. \n\nFor two hours Wednesday night of conference week, the Exhibit Pavilion is opened to family and friends of attendees for Family Night. This is the only time that guests of attendees can visit the Exhibit Pavilion, where technology vendors and demonstrations are available—and attendees can show their guests what GIS involves. \n\nThe GIS Kids Camp provides children of all ages with a way to explore GIS. Children learn how GIS helps them ask questions and visualize the answers. The camp was launched at the 1997 Esri UC in San Diego. Over the years, the program has introduced GIS to more than 1,500 children. \n\nA conference highlight is the Thursday Night Party, which has a different theme each year that ranges from Mardi Gras to a Renaissance Faire, to Oktoberfest. \n\nThe Spatial Outlet and Bookstore offers T-shirts, mouse pads, and other event memorabilia. There are also GIS books for sale as well as author signings. This is the spot to acquire souvenirs and books from Esri Press, as well as other specialty merchandise. \n\nOver the last several years Esri, its business partners, and the San Diego venues have increased the ecofriendliness of the event. Examples of this include using reusable materials and recycled paper for promotional items such as tote bags and agendas; making previously printed items only available on the Web; selling organic T-shirts in the Spatial Outlet store; offering recycling bins, water in bottles which use less plastic, biodegradable food service items, and food purchased from local growers when possible; as well as encouraging and promoting resources for carpooling and renting a bike as transportation for the week. \n\nEsri turned 40 in 2009. Jack Dangermond (current president) and Laura Dangermond (current vice president) founded Esri in 1969 as a landscape architectural consulting firm. Esri products are used by nearly 80 percent of all GIS users. The company remains a private corporation with consistent annual growth and annual revenue of more than $610 million. There are more than 4,000 employees. The Esri headquarters are located in Redlands, California. There are 10 regional offices in the U.S. and a network of 80 international distributors with about a million users in 200 countries.\n\nEvent Planner : Adonn Gallarita\n\nevent organizer : Junrey Rivera"}
{"id": "36558184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36558184", "title": "First Lady of Cameroon", "text": "First Lady of Cameroon\n\nThe First Lady of the Republic of Cameroon refers to the wife of the President of Cameroon. Chantal Biya, the second wife of President Paul Biya, became First Lady upon her marriage to Biya on April 23, 1994.\n"}
{"id": "1028666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1028666", "title": "Florida Parishes", "text": "Florida Parishes\n\nThe Florida Parishes (, ), on the east side of Mississippi River — an area also known as the Northshore or Northlake region — are eight parishes in southeast Louisiana, United States, which were part of West Florida in the 18th and early 19th centuries.\n\nUnlike most of the state, this region was not part of the 1803 Louisiana Purchase; it had been under British and then Spanish control since 1763.\n\nThe Florida Parishes of Louisiana stretch from the Mississippi state line on its eastern and northern borders, to the Mississippi River on its western border, and Lake Pontchartrain on its southern border. The most populated community is the Baton Rouge metropolitan area. (St. Tammany Parish is part of the New Orleans metropolitan area.)\n\nThe Parishes have a land area of 4,685.184 square miles (12,134.57 km²), or 10.755 percent of the state's land area. Its population at the 2000 census was 887,444 residents, or 19.858 percent of the state's population at that time. Its largest communities are, in descending order of population (2000 census), Baton Rouge, Slidell, Hammond, Shenandoah (CDP), Baker, Bogalusa, Zachary, Mandeville, Merrydale (CDP), Gardere (CDP), Denham Springs, Covington, Oak Hills Place (CDP), and Lacombe (CDP).\n\nThe area that became the Florida Parishes was at one time part of French Louisiana. Following the French and Indian War, however, the region, like most of the rest of French Louisiana east of the Mississippi River (excepting New Orleans), was transferred to Great Britain. The region became part of the British colonial province of West Florida.\n\nFollowing the American Revolutionary War, West Florida was the subject of a border dispute between the newly-formed United States and Spain, which acquired West and East Florida from the British after the war. The dispute led American and British settlers in the part of West Florida west of the Perdido River to declare an independent Republic of West Florida in 1810 and elected their leader, Fulwar Skipwith, as president. (None of the short-lived Republic of West Florida lay within the boundaries of the modern state of Florida.) The flag of the Republic of West Florida, which is often identified with the Bonnie Blue Flag of the Civil War era, flies on many public buildings in the Florida Parishes. In 2006 the state legislature designated it the \"official flag of the Republic of West Florida Historic Region.\"\n\nThe Republic was quickly annexed by the United States, and the present-day Florida Parishes were incorporated into the Territory of Orleans, which joined the Union as the State of Louisiana in 1812. In 1810, four parishes were established in the region: East Baton Rouge, Feliciana, St. Helena, and St. Tammany. Later in the 19th century, five additional parishes were created as follows, with Feliciana Parish ceasing to exist:\n\n\n\n\nIn 1990, the state of Louisiana formally designated this part of the state as \"the Republic of West Florida Historic Region, or the Florida Parishes.\" Since 1993, Interstate 12, which runs east and west through the Northshore region, has been officially designated as the Republic of West Florida Parkway.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39742646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39742646", "title": "Gilbert Thompson", "text": "Gilbert Thompson\n\nGilbert Thompson (21 March 1839 – 8 June 1909) was an American typographer, draftsman, topographer, and soldier.\n\nBorn on March 21, 1839 in of Mendon, Massachusetts, his father had helped combat the Dorr Rebellion in neighboring Rhode Island, and his great-grandmother was Deborah Sampson. At age ten his parents moved to the Utopian community of Hopedale, Massachusetts In Hopedale he trained to become a printer, and his first job was as a printer's assistant in a newspaper influenced by Adin Ballou. In 1861 he left to Boston, where he enlisted into the Union Army to fight in the American Civil War. The enlistment clerk wrote his profession as painter rather than printer when he signed up. This caused him to be changed from being an infantryman to becoming a combat engineer.\n\nAfter the war, Thompson went to Washington DC, where he became associated with the US Geological Survey. In 1872 he joined the Wheeler Survey, under Lieutenant George Wheeler. He would stay on the Wheeler survey for the next seven years, making friends with the likes of Henry Wetherbee Henshaw, Rogers Birnie, and William Henry Rideing. In 1875, he led an expedition to Spirit Mountain in Nevada, of which he did the first topographical sketch. In 1879 he went into the Great Basin with Grove Karl Gilbert and John Welsey Powell.\n\nThompson claimed to have been the first person to use fingerprints for identification in 1882, when he had his thumb print on a message that said \"August 8, 1882-Mr. Jonas Sutler will pay Lying Bob Seventy Five Dollar\". \n\nIn 1884 Thompson was made head of the Appalachian division of the US Geological Survey. In 1888 he co-founded the National Geographic Society, and in 1889 provided the first map supplement for the National Geographic Magazine; \"North Carolina-Tennessee-Asheville Sheet\".\n\nHe was also involved in the Grand Army of the Republic, Sons of the American Revolution, General Society of the War of 1812 and the Society of Colonial Wars. He also studied genealogy, finding connections between himself and Sir Humphrey Gilbert as well as Myles Standish, and was an antiquarian.\n\nMajor Gilbert Thompson died on June 8, 1909.\n\n"}
{"id": "20108790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20108790", "title": "History of human geography in China", "text": "History of human geography in China\n\nThe idea of human geography originated rather early in China, about 2,000 years ago. The classical works of philosophy and history contained much of the concept of the relationship between human activities and \"Tian\" (the heaven) or \"Di\" (the earth), recognizing that both sides were now and then in harmonious state or in contradictory condition, and both sides had their own evolutionary law.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56167553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56167553", "title": "Index of Sri Lanka-related articles (A)", "text": "Index of Sri Lanka-related articles (A)\n\nThis page lists Sri Lanka-related articles with titles beginning with an alphabet letter A.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28941548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28941548", "title": "International rankings of Mauritius", "text": "International rankings of Mauritius\n\nThese are the international rankings of Mauritius.\n\n"}
{"id": "42787977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42787977", "title": "James Elsner", "text": "James Elsner\n\nJames Brian Elsner (born 1959) is an American atmospheric scientist, geographer, and applied statistician who has made substantial contributions to understanding of the spatial, temporal, and physical relationships of tropical cyclones and tornadoes, and the influence of climate change.\n\nElsner earned a B.S. (1981), M.S. (1984), and Ph.D. (1988) from the University of Wisconsin–Milwaukee (UWM). He joined the faculty of Florida State University (FSU) in 1990 as an assistant professor in the Department of Meteorology and moved to the Department of Geography in 1998 where he has held his current position as the Earl and Sophia Shaw Professor since 2008. He has been President of Climatek, Inc., since 2001. Elsner organized the biannual International Summit on Hurricanes and Climate Change in 2001 and the International Summit on Tornadoes and Climate Change, the first scientific conference on the topic, in 2014. He is a storm chaser and leads a FSU storm intercept program. He is member of the American Association of Geographers (AAG), the American Geophysical Union (AGU), and the American Meteorological Society (AMS).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1578454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1578454", "title": "Julian March", "text": "Julian March\n\nThe Julian March (Serbo-Croatian, Slovene: \"Julijska krajina\") or Julian Venetia (; ; ; ) is an area of southeastern Europe which is divided among Croatia, Italy and Slovenia. The term was coined in 1863 by Italian linguist Graziadio Isaia Ascoli to demonstrate that the Austrian Littoral, Veneto, Friuli and Trentino (parts of the Austrian Empire) had a common Italian linguistic identity. Ascoli emphasized the Augustan partition of Roman Italy at the beginning of the Empire, when \"Venetia et Histria\" was \"Regio X\" (the Tenth Region).\n\nThe term was later endorsed by Italian irredentists, who sought to annex regions in which ethnic Italians made up most (or a substantial portion) of the population: the Austrian Littoral, Trentino, Fiume and Dalmatia. The Triple Entente promised the regions to Italy in the dissolution of the Austro-Hungarian Empire in exchange for Italy's joining the Allied Powers in World War I. The secret 1915 Treaty of London promised Italy territories largely inhabited by Italians (such as Trentino) in addition to those largely inhabited by Croats or Slovenes; the territories contained about 327,000 (out of total population of 1.3 million) ethnic Slovenes. With the exception of most of Dalmatia, the 1919 Treaty of Versailles granted most of the areas to Italy.\n\nA contemporary Italian autonomous region, bordering on Slovenia, is named Friuli-Venezia Giulia (\"Friuli and Julian Venetia\").\n\nThe term \"Julian March\" may be considered a loose translation of the Italian \"Venezia Giulia\" (or \"Julian Venetia\"), coined by the Italian historical linguist Graziadio Ascoli. In an 1863 newspaper article, Ascoli focused on a wide geographical area north and east of Venice which was under Austrian rule; he called it Triveneto (\"the three Venetian regions\"). Ascoli divided Triveneto into three parts:\n\nAccording to this definition, Triveneto overlaps the ancient Roman region of \"Regio X - Venetia et Histria\" introduced by Emperor Augustus in his administrative reorganization of Italy at the beginning of the first century AD. Ascoli (who was born in Gorizia) coined his terms for linguistic and cultural reasons, saying that the languages spoken in the three areas were substantially similar. His goal was to stress to the ruling Austrian Empire the region's Latin and Venetian roots and the importance of the Italian linguistic element.\n\nThe term \"Venezia Giulia\" did not catch on immediately, and began to be used widely only in the first decade of the 20th century. It was used in official administrative acts by the Italian government in 1922–1923 and after 1946, when it was included in the name of the new region of Friuli-Venezia Giulia.\n\nAt the end of the Roman Empire and the beginning of the Migration Period, the area had linguistic boundaries between speakers of Latin (and its dialects) and the German- and Slavic-language speakers who were moving into the region. German tribes first arrived in present-day Austria and its surrounding areas between the fourth and sixth centuries. They were followed by the Slavs, who appeared on the borders of the Byzantine Empire around the sixth century and settled in the Eastern Alps between the sixth and eighth centuries. In Byzantine Dalmatia, on the east shore of the Adriatic Sea, several city-states had limited autonomy. The Slavs retained their languages in the interior, and local Romance languages (followed by Venetian and Italian) continued to be spoken on the coast. \n\nBeginning in the early Middle Ages, two main political powers shaped the region: the Republic of Venice and the Habsburg (the dukes and, later, archdukes of Austria). During the 11th century, Venice began building an overseas empire (\"Stato da Màr\") to establish and protect its commercial routes in the Adriatic and southeastern Mediterranean Seas. Coastal areas of Istria and Dalmazia were key parts of these routes since Pietro II Orseolo, the Doge of Venice, established Venetian rule in the high and middle Adriatic around 1000.. The Venetian presence was concentrated on the coast, replacing Byzantine rule and confirming the political and linguistic separation between coast and interior. The Republic of Venice began expanding toward the Italian interior (\"Stato da Tera\") in 1420, acquiring the Patriarchate of Aquileia (which included a portion of modern Friuli—the present-day provinces of Pordenone and Udine—and part of internal Istria).\n\nThe Habsburg held the March of Carniola, roughly corresponding to the central Carniolan region of present-day Slovenia (part of their holdings in Inner Austria), since 1335. During the next two centuries, they gained control of the Istrian cities of Pazin and Rijeka-Fiume, the port of Trieste (with Duino), Gradisca and Gorizia (with its county in Friuli).\n\nThe region was relatively stable from the 16th century to the 1797 fall of the Republic of Venice, which was marked by the Treaty of Campo Formio between Austria and France. The Habsburgs gained Venetian lands on the Istrian Peninsula and the Quarnero (Kvarner) islands, expanded their holdings in 1813 with Napoleon's defeats and the dissolution of the French Illyrian provinces. Austria gained most of the republic's territories, including the Adriatic coast, Istria and portions of present-day Croatia (such as the city of Karlstadt). \n\nHabsburg rule abolished political borders which had divided the area for almost 1,000 years. The territories were initially assigned to the new Kingdom of Illyria, which became the Austrian Littoral in 1849. This was established as a crown land (\"Kronland\") of the Austrian Empire, consisting of three regions: the Istrian peninsula, Gorizia and Gradisca, and the city of Trieste.\n\nThe Italian-Austrian war of 1866, followed by the passage of what was then known as Veneto (the current Veneto and Friuli regions, except for the province of Gorizia) to Italy, did not directly affect the Littoral; however, a small community of Slavic speakers in northeastern Friuli (an area known as Slavia friulana - Beneška Slovenija) became part of the Kingdom of Italy. Otherwise, the Littoral lasted until the end of the Austrian Empire in 1918.\n\nNow part of the Kingdom of Italy, the new region included the County of Gorizia and Gradisca, Trieste, Istria, the current Italian municipalities of Tarvisio, Pontebba and Malborghetto Valbruna, and partially and fully Slovene portions of the former Austrian Littoral. Exceptions were the island of Krk and the municipality of Kastav, which became part of the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes. Rijeka-Fiume became a city-state, the Free State of Fiume, before it was abolished in 1924 and divided between Italy and the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes.\n\nThe new provinces of Gorizia (which was merged with the Province of Udine between 1924 and 1927), Trieste, Pola and Fiume (after 1924) were created. Italians lived primarily in cities and along the coast, and Slavs inhabited the interior. Fascist persecution, \"centralising, oppressive and dedicated to the forcible Italianisation of the minorities\", caused the emigration of about 105,000 Slovenes and Croats from the Julian March—around 70,000 to the Kingdom of Yugoslavia and 30,000 to Argentina. Several thousand Dalmatian Italians moved from Yugoslavia to Italy after 1918, many to Istria and Trieste.\n\nIn response to the Fascist Italianization of Slovene areas, the militant anti-Fascist organization TIGR emerged in 1927. TIGR co-ordinated Slovene resistance against Fascist Italy until it was dismantled by the secret police in 1941, and some former members joined the Yugoslav Partisans. The Slovene Partisans emerged that year in the occupied Province of Ljubljana, and spread by 1942 to the other Slovene areas which had been annexed by Kingdom of Italy twenty years earlier.\n\nAfter the Italian armistice of September 1943, many local uprisings took place. The town of Gorizia was temporarily liberated by partisans, and a liberated zone in the Upper Soča Valley known as the Kobarid Republic lasted from September to November 1943. The German Army began to occupy the region and encountered severe resistance from Yugoslav partisans, particularly in the lower Vipava Valley and the Alps. Most of the lowlands were occupied by the winter of 1943, but Yugoslav resistance remained active throughout the region and withdrew to the mountains.\n\nIn the aftermath of the fall 1943 Italian armistice, the first of what became known as the Foibe massacres occurred (primarily in present-day Croatian Istria). The Germans established the Operational Zone of the Adriatic Littoral, officially part of the Italian Social Republic but under \"de facto\" German administration, that year. Many areas, (especially north and north-east of Gorizia) were controlled by the partisan resistance, which was also active on the Karst Plateau and interior Istria. The Nazis tried to repress the Yugoslav guerrillas with reprisals against the civilian population; entire villages were burned down, and thousands of people were interned in Nazi concentration camps. However, the Yugoslav resistance took over most of the region by the spring of 1945.\n\nItalian resistance in the operational zone was active in Friuli and weaker in the Julian March, where it was confined to intelligence and underground resistance in the larger towns (especially Trieste and Pula). In May 1945, the Yugoslav Army entered Trieste; over the following days, virtually the entire Julian March was occupied by Yugoslav forces. Retaliation against real (and potential) political opponents occurred, primarily to the Italian population.\n\nThe Western allies adopted the term \"Julian March\" as the name for the territories which were contested between Italy and the People's Federal Republic of Yugoslavia between 1945 and 1947. The Morgan Line was drawn in June 1945, dividing the region into two militarily administered zones. Zone B was under Yugoslav administration and excluded the cities of Pula, Gorizia, Trieste, the Soča Valley and most of the Karst Plateau, which were under joint British-American administration. During this period, many Italians left the Yugoslav-occupied area.\n\nIn 1946, U.S. President Harry S. Truman ordered an increase in U.S. troops in their occupation zone (Zone A) and the reinforcement of air forces in northern Italy after Yugoslav forces shot down two U.S. Army transport planes. An agreement on the border was chosen from four proposed solutions at the Paris Peace Conference that year. Yugoslavia acquired the northern part of the region east of Gorizia, most of Istria and the city of Fiume. A Free Territory of Trieste was created, divided into two zones—one under Allied and the other under Yugoslav military administration. Tensions continued, and in 1954 the territory was abolished and divided between Italy (which received the city of Trieste and its surroundings) and Yugoslavia.\n\nIn Slovenia the Julian March is known as the Slovene Littoral, encompassing the regions of Goriška and Slovenian Istria and (sometimes) the Slovene-speaking areas of the provinces of Gorizia and Trieste. In Croatia, the traditional name of Istria is used. After the divisions of 1947 and 1954, the term \"Julian March\" survived in the name of the Friuli-Venezia Giulia region of Italy.\n\nTwo major ethnolinguistic clusters were unified in the region. The western portion was inhabited primarily by Italians (Italian, Venetian and Friulian were the three major languages), with a small Istriot-speaking minority. The eastern and northern areas were inhabited by South Slavs (Slovenes and Croats), with small Montenegrin (Peroj) and Serb minorities.\n\nOther ethnic groups included Istro-Romanians in eastern Istria, Carinthian Germans in the Canale Valley and smaller German- and Hungarian-speaking communities in larger urban centres, primarily members of the former Austro-Hungarian élite. This is illustrated by the 1855 ethnographic map of the Austrian Empire compiled by Karl von Czoernig-Czernhausen and issued by the Austrian \"k. u. k.\" department of statistics. According to the 1910–1911 Austrian census, the Austrian Littoral (which would be annexed by Italy from 1920 to 1924) had a population of 978,385. Italian was the everyday language (\"Umgangsprache\") of 421,444 people (43.1 percent); 327,230 (33.4 percent) spoke Slovene, and 152,500 (15.6 percent) spoke Croatian. About 30,000 people (3.1 percent) spoke German, 3,000 (0.3 percent) spoke Hungarian, and small clusters of Istro-Romanian and Czech speakers existed. The Friulian, Venetian and Istriot languages were considered Italian; an estimated 60,000 or more \"Italian\" speakers (about 14 percent) spoke Friulian.\n\nThe standard Italian language was common among educated people in Trieste, Gorizia, Istria and Rijeka|Rijeka-Fiume. In Trieste (and to a lesser extent in Istria), Italian was the predominant language in primary education. The Italian-speaking élite dominated the governments of Trieste and Istria under Austro-Hungarian rule, although they were increasingly challenged by Slovene and Croatian political movements. Before 1918, Trieste was the only self-governing Austro-Hungarian unit in which Italian speakers were the majority of the population.\n\nMost of the Romance-speaking population did not speak standard Italian as their native language, but two other closely related Romance languages: Friulian and Venetian. There was no attempt to introduce Venetian into education and administration.\n\nFriulian was spoken in the south-western lowlands of the county of Gorizia and Gradisca (except for the Monfalcone-Grado area, where Venetian was spoken), and in the town of Gorizia. Larger Friulian-speaking centres included Cormons, Cervignano, and Gradisca d'Isonzo. A dialect of Friulian (Tergestine) was spoken in Trieste and Muggia, evolving into a Venetian dialect during the 18th century. According to contemporary estimates, three-quarters of the Italians in the county of Gorizia and Gradisca were native Friulian speakers—one-quarter of the county's population, and seven to eight percent of the population of the Julian March.\n\nVenetian dialects were concentrated in Trieste, Rijeka and Istria, and the Istro-Venetian dialect was the predominant language of the west Istrian coast. In many small west Istrian towns, such as Koper (Capodistria), Piran (Pirano) or Poreč (Parenzo), the Venetian-speaking majority reached 90 percent of the population and 100 percent in Umag (Umago) and Muggia. Venetian was also a strong presence on Istria's Cres-Lošinj archipelago and in the peninsula's eastern and interior towns such as Motovun, Labin, Plomin and, to a lesser extent, Buzet and Pazin. Although Istro-Venetian was strongest in urban areas, clusters of Venetian-speaking peasants also existed. This was especially true for the area around Buje and Grožnjan in north-central Istria, where Venetian spread during the mid-19th century (often in the form of a Venetian-Croat pidgin). In the county of Gorizia and Gradisca, Venetian was spoken in the area around Monfalcone and Ronchi (between the lower Isonzo River and the Karst Plateau) in an area popularly known as Bisiacaria and in the town of Grado. In Trieste the local Venetian dialect (known as Triestine) was widely spoken, although it was the native language of only about half the city's population. In Rijeka-Fiume, a form of Venetian known as Fiumano emerged during the late 18th and early 19th centuries and became the native language of about half the city's population.\n\nIn addition to these two large language groups, two smaller Romance communities existed in Istria. In the south-west, on the coastal strip between Pula and Rovinj, the archaic Istriot language was spoken. In some villages of eastern Istria, north of Labin, the Istro-Romanian language was spoken by about 3,000 people.\n\nSlovene was spoken in the north-eastern and southern parts of Gorizia and Gradisca (by about 60 percent of the population), in northern Istria and in the Inner Carniolan areas annexed by Italy in 1920 (Postojna, Vipava, Ilirska Bistrica and Idrija). It was also the primary language of one-fourth to one-third of the population of Trieste. Smaller Slovene-speaking communities lived in the Canale Valley (Carinthian Slovenes), in Rijeka and in larger towns outside the Slovene Lands (especially Pula, Monfalcone, Gradisca d'Isonzo and Cormons). Slavia Friulana - Beneška Slovenija, the community living since the eighth century in small towns (such as Resia) in the valleys of the Natisone, Torre and Judrio Rivers in Friuli, has been part of Italy since 1866. \n\nA variety of Slovene dialects were spoken throughout the region. The Slovene linguistic community in the Julian March was divided into as many as 11 dialects (seven larger and four smaller dialects), belonging to three of the seven dialect groups into which Slovene is divided. Most Slovenes were fluent in standard Slovene, with the exception of some northern Istrian villages (where primary education was in Italian and the Slovene national movement penetrated only in the late 19th century) and the Carinthian Slovenes in the Canale Valley, who were Germanised until 1918 and frequently spoke only the local dialect.\n\nSlovene-Italian bilingualism was present only in some north-west Istrian coastal villages and the confined semi-urban areas around Gorizia and Trieste, while the vast majority of Slovene speakers had little (or no) knowledge of Italian; German was the predominant second language of the Slovene rural population.\n\nCroatian was spoken in the central and eastern Istrian peninsula, on the Cres-Lošinj archipelago; it was the second-most-spoken language (after Venetian) in the town of Rijeka. The Kajkavian dialect of Serbo-Croatian was spoken around Buzet in north-central Istria; Čakavian was predominant in all other areas, frequently with strong Kajkavian and Venetian vocabulary influences. Italian-Croatian bilingualism was frequent in western Istria, on the Cres-Lošinj archipelago and in Rijeka, but rare elsewhere.\n\nGerman was the predominant language in secondary and higher education throughout the region until 1918, and the educated élite were fluent in German. Many Austrian civil servants used German in daily life, especially in larger urban centres. Most of the German speakers would speak Italian, Slovene or Croatian on social and public occasions, depending on their political and ethnic preferences and location. Among the rural population, German was spoken by about 6,000 people in the Canale Valley. In the major urban areas (primarily Trieste and Rijeka), Hungarian, Serbian, Czech and Greek were spoken by smaller communities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55876310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55876310", "title": "Lake Manuherikia", "text": "Lake Manuherikia\n\nLake Manuherikia was a prehistoric lake which once stretched over some in what is now inland Otago in the South Island of New Zealand. It covered much of the area now referred to as the Maniototo.\n\nThe lake existed from around 19 to 16 million years ago, and was surrounded by rich subtropical vegetation. The edges of the lake were fringed with fen and bogland. After the lake dried up, its bed became a fossil-rich layer of sandstone, now known as the Manuherikia Group. \n"}
{"id": "23515723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23515723", "title": "Landscape limnology", "text": "Landscape limnology\n\nLandscape limnology is the spatially explicit study of lakes, streams, and wetlands as they interact with freshwater, terrestrial, and human landscapes to determine the effects of pattern on ecosystem processes across temporal and spatial scales. Limnology is the study of inland water bodies inclusive of rivers, lakes, and wetlands; landscape limnology seeks to integrate all of these ecosystem types.\n\nThe terrestrial component represents spatial hierarchies of landscape features that influence which materials, whether solutes or organisms, are transported to aquatic systems; aquatic connections represent how these materials are transported; and human activities reflect features that influence how these materials are transported as well as their quantity and temporal dynamics.\n\nThe core principles or themes of landscape ecology provide the foundation for landscape limnology. These ideas can be synthesized into a set of four landscape ecology themes that are broadly applicable to any aquatic ecosystem type, and that consider the unique features of such ecosystems. \n\nA landscape limnology framework begins with the premise of Thienemann (1925). Wiens (2002): freshwater ecosystems can be considered patches. As such, the location of these patches and their placement relative to other elements of the landscape is important to the ecosystems and their processes. Therefore, the four main themes of landscape limnology are:\n\n(1) Patch characteristics: The characteristics of a freshwater ecosystem include its physical morphometry, chemical, and biological features, as well as its boundaries. These boundaries are often more easily defined for aquatic ecosystems than for terrestrial ecosystems (e.g., shoreline, riparian zones, and emergent vegetation zone) and are often a focal-point for important ecosystem processes linking terrestrial and aquatic components.\n\n(2) Patch context: The freshwater ecosystem is embedded in a complex terrestrial mosaic (e.g., soils, geology, and land use/cover) that has been shown to drive many within-ecosystem features and processes such as water chemistry, species richness, and primary and secondary productivity. \n\n(3) Patch connectivity and directionality: The complex freshwater mosaic is connected to the particular patch of interest and defines the degree to which materials and organisms move across the landscape through freshwater connections. For freshwater ecosystems, these connections often display a strong directionality component that must be explicitly considered. For example, a specific wetland can be connected through groundwater to other wetlands or lakes, or through surface water connections directly to lakes and rivers, or both, and the directionality of those connections will strongly impact the movement of nutrients and biota.\n\n(4) Spatial scale and hierarchy: Interactions among terrestrial and freshwater elements occur at multiple spatial scales that must be considered hierarchically. The explicit integration of hierarchy into landscape limnology is important because (a) many freshwater ecosystems are hierarchically organized and controlled by processes that are hierarchically organized, (b) most freshwater ecosystems are managed at multiple spatial scales, from policy set at the national level, to land management conducted at local scales, and (c) the degree of homogeneity among freshwater ecosystems can change in relation to the scale of observation.\n\nFindings from landscape limnology research are contributing to many facets of aquatic ecosystem research, management, and conservation. Landscape limnology is especially relevant for geographical areas with thousands of ecosystems (i.e. lake-rich regions of the world), in situations with a range of human disturbances, or when considering lakes, streams, and wetlands that are connected to other such ecosystems. For example, landscape limnology perspectives have contributed to the development of nutrient criteria for lakes, formation of classification systems that can be used to monitor the health of aquatic ecosystems, understanding ecosystem responses to environmental stressors, or explaining biogeographic patterns of community composition.\n\n"}
{"id": "374240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374240", "title": "Landscaping", "text": "Landscaping\n\nLandscaping refers to any activity that modifies the visible features of an area of land, including:\n\nLandscaping requires expertise in horticulture and artistic design.\n\nConstruction requires study and observation. It is not the same in different parts of the world. Landscaping varies according to different regions. Therefore, normally local natural experts are recommended if it is done for the first time. Understanding of the site is one of the chief essentials for successful landscaping. Different natural features like terrain, topography, soil qualities, prevailing winds, depth of the frost line, and the system of native flora and fauna must be taken into account. Sometimes the land is not fit for landscaping. In order to landscape it, the land must be reshaped. This reshaping of land is called grading.\n\nRemoval of earth from the land is called cutting while when earth is added to the slope, it is called filling. Sometimes the grading process may involve removal of excessive waste (landfills), soil and rocks, so designers should take into account while in the planning stage.\n\nIn the start, the landscaping contractor makes a letter which is a rough design and layout of what could be done with the land in order to achieve the desired outcome. Different pencils are required to make graphics of the picture. Landscaping has become more technological than natural, as few projects begin without bulldozers, lawnmowers, or chainsaws. Different areas have different qualities of plants. When growing new grass, it should ideally be done in the spring and the fall seasons to maximize growth and to minimize the spread of weeds. It is generally agreed that Fertilizers are required for good plant growth. Some landscapers prefer to use mix gravel with rocks of varying sizes to add interest in large areas.\n\n"}
{"id": "256073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=256073", "title": "Lielupe", "text": "Lielupe\n\nThe Lielupe (in Latvian literally: \"Large River\", , ) is a river in central Latvia. Its length is 119 km (the length would reach 310 km if the Mēmele River were counted as part of the Lielupe). The surface area of its drainage basin is 17,600 km². The average fall of the Lielupe is about (.1 meter/kilometer) and its average flow is 106 m³/s, although a maximum of 1380 m³/s has been reached during floods.\n\nThe Lielupe begins at the confluence of the Mēmele and Mūsa rivers near Bauska. For the upper part of its course, the river flows through a dolomite valley with a few small rapids, until it reaches Mežotne, where it widens and deepens over the flat Zemgale Plain. For many years the Lielupe would frequently overflow its shallow banks and flood surrounding fields and villages, particularly during the spring thaw. Today many parts of the Lielupe's banks are contained with earthen dikes to prevent disastrous floods. Much of the Lielupe is covered in river grasses. At its lower reaches, the river flows parallel to the coast line of the Gulf of Riga; the city of Jūrmala stretches for almost 30 km between the river and the sea. Eventually the Lielupe flows into the Baltic Sea, while the Buļļupe branch () flows into the Daugava River. The modern mouth of the river appeared in 1755. Before then the Buļļupe was the Lielupe's main channel.\n\nAbout 50-55% of the water discharge of the river is from melted snow. The Lielupe is navigable for a range of 100 km, the longest continuous range among Latvian rivers. Municipalities along the river include Bauska, Mežotne, Jelgava, Kalnciems, Jūrmala and Riga.\n\nThe Lielupe also gives its name to a railway station and a neighbourhood in the city of Jūrmala.\n\n"}
{"id": "24297253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24297253", "title": "List of Belgian supercentenarians", "text": "List of Belgian supercentenarians\n\nThis is an incomplete list of Belgian supercentenarians (people living in Belgium who have attained at least 110 years of age). The Gerontology Research Group (GRG), an organization that tracks supercentenarians and verifies age claims, has verified 20 supercentenarians, including emigrant supercentenarians, from Belgium. The oldest Belgian ever was Joanna Deroover, who died in 2002 aged 112 years 186 days. Since the death of 110-year-old Madeleine Dullier on 20 April 2018, the oldest living Belgian person is Elisabeth de Proost, born 5 February 1908, aged .\n"}
{"id": "11573248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11573248", "title": "List of Icelandic flags", "text": "List of Icelandic flags\n\nThe following is a list of Icelandic flags.\n\n"}
{"id": "38282506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38282506", "title": "List of Presidents of the United States by home state", "text": "List of Presidents of the United States by home state\n\nThese lists give the states of primary affiliation and of birth for each President of the United States.\n\nTwenty-one states claim the distinction of being the birthplace of a president. One president's \"birth state\" is in dispute; North and South Carolina (British colonies at the time) both lay claim to Andrew Jackson, who was born in 1767, in the Waxhaw region along their common border. Jackson himself considered South Carolina as his birth state. Born on December 5, 1782, Martin Van Buren was the first president born an American citizen (and not a British subject). \n\nThe term Virginia dynasty is sometimes used to describe the fact that four of the first five U.S. presidents were from Virginia. The number of presidents born per state, counting Jackson as being from South Carolina, are:\n\nThe birthplaces and early childhood residences of many U.S. presidents have been preserved or replicated. In instances where a physical structure is absent, a monument or roadside marker has been erected to denote the site's historic significance. All sites in the table below are listed in the National Register of Historic Places.\n\nA dramatic shift in childbirth from home to hospital occurred in the United States in the early 20th century (mid–1920s to 1940). Reflective of this trend, all presidents born after World War II (Bill Clinton and every president since) have been born in a hospital, not a private residence.\n\nA list of U.S. Presidents including the state with which each was primarily affiliated, due to residence, professional career, and electoral history. This is not necessarily the state in which the president was born. Nineteen Presidents (denoted with an asterisk) primarily resided in states other than their respective birth states, which are listed above.\n\n"}
{"id": "3419401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3419401", "title": "List of car models commercialized in Argentina", "text": "List of car models commercialized in Argentina\n\nThe following is a list of car models currently for sale in Argentina.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\"Volkswagen's Gacel, Senda, Fox, Saveiro, Suran and Voyage are based on Volkswagen Gol platforms\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21798287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21798287", "title": "List of consorts of the Byzantine successor states", "text": "List of consorts of the Byzantine successor states\n\nThis is a list of the consorts of the four main Byzantine Greek successor states of the Byzantine Empire following the Fourth Crusade in 1204 and up to their conquest by the Ottoman Empire in the middle of the 15th century. These states were Nicaea, Trebizond, Epirus, and the Morea. The last two never actually claimed the imperial title, except briefly under Theodore Komnenos Doukas in the late 1220s, who began as ruler of Epirus but crowned himself emperor in Thessalonica.\n\nThe consorts of rulers of Trebizond, like their counterparts in the other two Byzantine successor states, the Empire of Nicaea and the Despotate of Epirus, initially claimed the traditional Byzantine title of \"Empress consort the Romans\". However, after reaching an agreement with the restored Byzantine Empire in 1282, the official title of the consorts of Trebizond was changed to \"Empress consort of the entire East, of the Iberians and the Perateia\" and remained such until the Empire's end in 1461. The state is sometimes called the Komnenian or Megalokomnenian empire from its ruling dynasty. Trebizond had three reigning empresses, Theodora of Trebizond (1284–1285), Irene Palaiologina (1340–1341), and Anna of Trebizond (1341–1342).\n\nThe Byzantine Empire fell in 1453. Three pretenders from the dynasty followed. The last Palaiologan pretender, Andreas Palaiologos, sold his right to the imperial succession to Charles VIII of France, but he also willed the imperial titles to Ferdinand II of Aragon and Isabella I of Castille, and so in a sense either the French Spanish queens have been the titular Empress of the Eastern Roman Empire since the 15th century. Another Palaiologan, Manuel Palaiologos, sold his right of succession to Ottoman Sultan Bayazid II (the Ottoman sultans already claim to be the Kaizer-i Rum or Roman Emperor); but since there is no such thing as a sultaness, there are no Ottoman consorts. Not counting the Ottoman, the two successors of the Palaiologans were all Catholic instead of Orthodox.\n\n"}
{"id": "39507580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39507580", "title": "List of countries by recoverable shale gas", "text": "List of countries by recoverable shale gas\n\nThis is a list of countries by recoverable shale gas based on data collected by the Energy Information Administration agency of the United States Department of Energy. Numbers for the estimated amount of recoverable shale gas resources are provided alongside numbers for proven natural gas reserves.\n\n"}
{"id": "4115683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4115683", "title": "List of extinct languages of South America", "text": "List of extinct languages of South America\n\nThis is a partial list of extinct languages of South America, languages which have undergone language death, have no native speakers and no spoken descendant. There are 179 languages listed\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41971558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41971558", "title": "List of national capitals by latitude", "text": "List of national capitals by latitude\n\nThis is a list of official national capitals by latitude, including territories and dependencies, non-sovereign states including associated states and entities whose sovereignty is disputed. Sovereign states are shown in bolded text.\n"}
{"id": "1253812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1253812", "title": "List of rulers of the Ewe state of Agwe", "text": "List of rulers of the Ewe state of Agwe\n\nTerritory located in present-day Benin and Togo.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51882374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51882374", "title": "Manalar Waterfalls", "text": "Manalar Waterfalls\n\nManalar Waterfalls is situated at Achankovil in Kollam district of Kerala. It is on the eastern area of Kollam District and Konni forest. Manalar Waterfall is about 112 km away from Kollam city.\n\n"}
{"id": "1760122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1760122", "title": "Mount Karthala", "text": "Mount Karthala\n\nMount Karthala or Karthola ( \"Al Qirtālah\") is an active volcano and the highest point of the Comoros at above sea level. It is the southernmost and larger of the two shield volcanoes forming Grande Comore island, the largest island in the nation of Comoros. The Karthala volcano is very active, having erupted more than 20 times since the 19th century. Frequent eruptions have shaped the volcano’s 3 km by 4 km summit caldera, but the island has largely escaped broad destruction. Eruptions on April 17, 2005 and May 29, 2006 ended a period of quiet.\n\nThe eruption, which carried a risk of lava flows and deadly volcanic gas, caused the evacuation of 30,000 residents.\n\nThe crater was clearly changed by the April 2005 eruption. A grey field of ash surrounds the crater and the caldera itself seems larger and deeper. The crater lake, which formed after Karthala's last eruption in 1991 and once dominated the caldera, is now gone completely. In its place were rough, dark grey rocks, possibly cooling lava or rubble from the collapsed crater.\n\nOn May 29, Reuters reported that residents of Moroni could see lava at the top of the volcano. Within a few days the volcanic activity subsided.\n\nThe mountain is covered by moist evergreen forest up to about 1800 metres above sea-level. Higher up the vegetation consists of stunted trees and heathland where the giant heather \"Erica comorensis\" grows.\n\nMany of the species found on the mountain are unique to the Comoros and four bird species are found only on the slopes of Mount Karthala: Humblot's flycatcher, Comoro white-eye, Comoro drongo and Karthala scops owl.\n\nThe mountain's forest is threatened by logging and the spread of agriculture. A nature reserve has been proposed to cover the mountain; it has not yet been created.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41573349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41573349", "title": "Nyakélé, Littoral Region, Cameroon", "text": "Nyakélé, Littoral Region, Cameroon\n\nNyakélé is a very small town in the Littoral Region of Cameroon, on the content of Africa. It belongs to the Sanaga-Maritime department whose capital is Édéa.\n\nSmall neighboring towns include; Ngakélé, Nyanon, Nyoudem and Pendiki, while the major neighboring cities include; Yaoundé, Édéa, Douala and Bafoussam.\n"}
{"id": "9648404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9648404", "title": "Oba of Lagos", "text": "Oba of Lagos\n\nThe Oba (\"king\") of Lagos is the traditional, yet ceremonial, sovereign of Lagos, a coastal Yoruba settlement that went on to become the largest city in Africa after first giving its name to Lagos State, the acclaimed financial heart of contemporary Nigeria. The king has no political power, but is sought as a counsel or sponsor by Nigerian politicians who seek support from the various residents of Lagos. Among other ceremonial roles, the Oba also plays a central part in the Eyo festival as well as indulging in tourism advertisements on behalf of the city, often stating, \"you've gotta go to Lagos\".\n\nAll Obas of Lagos trace their lineage to Ashipa, a war captain of the Oba of Benin. Ashipa was rewarded with title of \"Oloriogun\" (or \"War leader\") and received the Oba of Benin's sanction to govern Lagos. Some Benin accounts of history have the Ashipa as son or grandson of the Oba of Benin. Other accounts note that Ashipa is a Yoruba corruption of the Benin name \"Aisika-hienbore\" (translated \"we shall not desert this place\").\n\nAshipa received a sword and royal drum as symbols of his authority from the Oba of Benin on his mission to Lagos. Additionally, the Oba of Benin deployed a group of Benin officers charged with preserving Benin's interests in Lagos. These officers, led by Eletu Odibo, were the initial members of the \"Akarigbere\" class of Lagos White Cap Chiefs.\n\nPrior to the arrival of the British, the Oba of Benin had \"the undisputed right to crown or confirm the individual whom the people of Lagos elect[ed] to be their King\".\n\nThe defeat of Oba Kosoko by British forces on December 28, 1851, in what is now known as the Bombardment of Lagos or Reduction of Lagos, or locally as Ogun Ahoyaya or Ogun Agidingbi (after boiling cannons), put an end to Lagos' s former allegiance to the Oba of Benin.\n\nKosoko was therefore the last Oba of Lagos to remit annual tributes from the people of Lagos to the Oba of Benin. Oba Akitoye, who was re-installed to the throne by the British, \"seized the opportunity of his restoration under British protection to repudiate his former allegiance\" to Benin and rebuffed subsequent tribute requests from the Oba of Benin.\n\nPrevious rulers of Lagos have used the titles of Ologun (derived from Oloriogun), Eleko and, most recently, Oba of Lagos.\n\nThe current Oba of Lagos, His Highness Oba Rilwan Akiolu, has served in the position since May 2003.\n\nThe official residence of the king, since 1630, is Iga Idunganran, a castle constructed by the Portuguese over the course of close to a century. It is today a very popular tourist site.\n\n\n\n 10.Yusuf Olatunji. Volume 17:02\n\n"}
{"id": "16278439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16278439", "title": "Outline of Bangladesh", "text": "Outline of Bangladesh\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to Bangladesh:\n\nBangladesh – sovereign country located in South Asia. It is bordered by India on all sides except for a small border with Burma to the far southeast and by the Bay of Bengal to the south. Together with the Indian state of West Bengal, it makes up the ethno-linguistic region of Bengal. The name \"Bangladesh\" means \"The land of Bengal\" in the official Bengali language. Bangladesh became an independent nation in 1971 after a struggle for independence from Pakistan led by Sheikh Mujibur Rahman and Major Ziaur Rahman. Bangladesh is the eight-most populous country and the fifth most populous democracy in the world.\n\n\nGeography of Bangladesh\n\n\n\nAdministrative divisions of Bangladesh\n\nDivisions of Bangladesh\n\nDistricts of Bangladesh\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nUpazilas of Bangladesh\nThe districts are subdivided into 493 sub-districts, or upazila.\n\n\n\nDemographics of Bangladesh\n\nPolitics of Bangladesh\nSince independence of the country, 10 Parliamentary Elections and 3 Presidential Elections were held.\nThere were 6 other presidential elections under Parliamentary management.\n\nGovernment of Bangladesh\n\n\n\nCourt system of Bangladesh\n\nForeign relations of Bangladesh\n\n\nThe People's Republic of Bangladesh is a member of:\n\nLaw of Bangladesh\n\nMilitary of Bangladesh\n\nLocal government in Bangladesh\n\nHistory of Bangladesh\n\n\n1971 - 1972 - 1973 - 1974 - 1975 - 1976 - 1977 - 1978 - 1979 - 1980 - 1981 - 1982 - 1983 - 1984 - 1985 - 1986 - 1987 - 1988 - 1989 - 1990 - 1991 - 1992 - 1993 - 1994 - 1995 - 1996 - 1997 - 1998 - 1999 - 2000 - 2001 - 2002 - 2003 - 2004 - 2005 - 2006 - 2007 - 2008 - 2009 - 2010 - 2011 - 2012 - 2013 - 2014 - 2015 - 2016 - 2017 - 2018\n\n\n\n\nArt in Bangladesh\n\n\n\n\nBengali novels\n\nBengali poetry\n\n\n\n\nNewspapers in Bangladesh\n\n\n\n\n\nPeople of Bangladesh\n\n\n\n\n\nSports in Bangladesh\n\nCricket in Bangladesh\n\n\nHistory of cricket in Bangladesh\n\nEconomy of Bangladesh\n\n\nTelecommunications in Bangladesh\n\nEnergy in Bangladesh\n\nTransport in Bangladesh\n\n\nAirports in Bangladesh\n\n\n\nEducation in Bangladesh\n\n\n\n\n\nUniversities in Bangladesh\n\n\nHealth in Bangladesh\n\nBangladesh\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23070", "title": "Pacific Ocean", "text": "Pacific Ocean\n\nThe Pacific Ocean is the largest and deepest of Earth's oceanic divisions. It extends from the Arctic Ocean in the north to the Southern Ocean (or, depending on definition, to Antarctica) in the south and is bounded by Asia and Australia in the west and the Americas in the east.\n\nAt in area (as defined with an Antarctic southern border), this largest division of the World Ocean—and, in turn, the hydrosphere—covers about 46% of Earth's water surface and about one-third of its total surface area, making it larger than all of Earth's land area combined. The centers of both the Water Hemisphere and the Western Hemisphere are in the Pacific Ocean. The equator subdivides it into the North Pacific Ocean and South Pacific Ocean, with two exceptions: the Galápagos and Gilbert Islands, while straddling the equator, are deemed wholly within the South Pacific. Its mean depth is . The Mariana Trench in the western North Pacific is the deepest point in the world, reaching a depth of . The western Pacific has many peripheral seas.\n\nThough the peoples of Asia and Oceania have traveled the Pacific Ocean since prehistoric times, the eastern Pacific was first sighted by Europeans in the early 16th century when Spanish explorer Vasco Núñez de Balboa crossed the Isthmus of Panama in 1513 and discovered the great \"southern sea\" which he named \"Mar del Sur\" (in Spanish). The ocean's current name was coined by Portuguese explorer Ferdinand Magellan during the Spanish circumnavigation of the world in 1521, as he encountered favorable winds on reaching the ocean. He called it \"Mar Pacífico\", which in both Portuguese and Spanish means \"peaceful sea\".\n\nImportant human migrations occurred in the Pacific in prehistoric times. About 3000 BC, the Austronesian peoples on the island of Taiwan mastered the art of long-distance canoe travel and spread themselves and their languages south to the Philippines, Indonesia, and maritime Southeast Asia; west towards Madagascar; southeast towards New Guinea and Melanesia (intermarrying with native Papuans); and east to the islands of Micronesia, Oceania and Polynesia.\n\nLong-distance trade developed all along the coast from Mozambique to Japan. Trade, and therefore knowledge, extended to the Indonesian islands but apparently not Australia. By at least 878 when there was a significant Islamic settlement in Canton much of this trade was controlled by Arabs or Muslims. In 219 BC Xu Fu sailed out into the Pacific searching for the elixir of immortality. From 1404 to 1433 Zheng He led expeditions into the Indian Ocean.\n\nThe first contact of European navigators with the western edge of the Pacific Ocean was made by the Portuguese expeditions of António de Abreu and Francisco Serrão, via the Lesser Sunda Islands, to the Maluku Islands, in 1512, and with Jorge Álvares's expedition to southern China in 1513, both ordered by Afonso de Albuquerque from Malacca.\n\nThe east side of the ocean was discovered by Spanish explorer Vasco Núñez de Balboa in 1513 after his expedition crossed the Isthmus of Panama and reached a new ocean. He named it \"Mar del Sur\" (literally, \"Sea of the South\" or \"South Sea\") because the ocean was to the south of the coast of the isthmus where he first observed the Pacific.\n\nLater, Portuguese explorer Ferdinand Magellan sailed the Pacific East to West on a Castilian (\"Spanish\") expedition of world circumnavigation starting in 1519. Magellan called the ocean \"Pacífico\" (or \"Pacific\" meaning, \"peaceful\") because, after sailing through the stormy seas off Cape Horn, the expedition found calm waters. The ocean was often called the \"Sea of Magellan\" in his honor until the eighteenth century. Although Magellan himself died in the Philippines in 1521, Spanish Basque navigator Juan Sebastián Elcano led the remains of the expedition back to Spain across the Indian Ocean and round the Cape of Good Hope, completing the first world circumnavigation in a single expedition in 1522. Sailing around and east of the Moluccas, between 1525 and 1527, Portuguese expeditions discovered the Caroline Islands, the Aru Islands, and Papua New Guinea. In 1542–43 the Portuguese also reached Japan.\n\nIn 1564, five Spanish ships carrying 379 explorers crossed the ocean from Mexico led by Miguel López de Legazpi, and sailed to the Philippines and Mariana Islands. For the remainder of the 16th century, Spanish influence was paramount, with ships sailing from Mexico and Peru across the Pacific Ocean to the Philippines via Guam, and establishing the Spanish East Indies. The Manila galleons operated for two and a half centuries, linking Manila and Acapulco, in one of the longest trade routes in history. Spanish expeditions also discovered Tuvalu, the Marquesas, the Cook Islands, the Solomon Islands, and the Admiralty Islands in the South Pacific.\n\nLater, in the quest for Terra Australis (\"the [great] Southern Land\"), Spanish explorations in the 17th century, such as the expedition led by the Portuguese navigator Pedro Fernandes de Queirós, discovered the Pitcairn and Vanuatu archipelagos, and sailed the Torres Strait between Australia and New Guinea, named after navigator Luís Vaz de Torres. Dutch explorers, sailing around southern Africa, also engaged in discovery and trade; Willem Janszoon, made the first completely documented European landing in Australia (1606), in Cape York Peninsula, and Abel Janszoon Tasman circumnavigated and landed on parts of the Australian continental coast and discovered Tasmania and New Zealand in 1642.\n\nIn the 16th and 17th centuries Spain considered the Pacific Ocean a \"mare clausum\"—a sea closed to other naval powers. As the only known entrance from the Atlantic, the Strait of Magellan was at times patrolled by fleets sent to prevent entrance of non-Spanish ships. On the western side of the Pacific Ocean the Dutch threatened the Spanish Philippines.\n\nThe 18th century marked the beginning of major exploration by the Russians in Alaska and the Aleutian Islands, such as the First Kamchatka expedition and the Great Northern Expedition, led by the Danish Russian navy officer Vitus Bering. Spain also sent expeditions to the Pacific Northwest, reaching Vancouver Island in southern Canada, and Alaska. The French explored and settled Polynesia, and the British made three voyages with James Cook to the South Pacific and Australia, Hawaii, and the North American Pacific Northwest. In 1768, Pierre-Antoine Véron, a young astronomer accompanying Louis Antoine de Bougainville on his voyage of exploration, established the width of the Pacific with precision for the first time in history. One of the earliest voyages of scientific exploration was organized by Spain in the Malaspina Expedition of 1789–1794. It sailed vast areas of the Pacific, from Cape Horn to Alaska, Guam and the Philippines, New Zealand, Australia, and the South Pacific.\n\nGrowing imperialism during the 19th century resulted in the occupation of much of Oceania by European powers, and later Japan and the United States. Significant contributions to oceanographic knowledge were made by the voyages of HMS \"Beagle\" in the 1830s, with Charles Darwin aboard; HMS \"Challenger\" during the 1870s; the USS \"Tuscarora\" (1873–76); and the German \"Gazelle\" (1874–76).\n\nIn Oceania, France obtained a leading position as imperial power after making Tahiti and New Caledonia protectorates in 1842 and 1853 respectively. After navy visits to Easter Island in 1875 and 1887, Chilean navy officer Policarpo Toro negotiated the incorporation of the island into Chile with native Rapanui in 1888. By occupying Easter Island, Chile joined the imperial nations. By 1900 nearly all Pacific islands were in control of Britain, France, United States, Germany, Japan, and Chile.\n\nAlthough the United States gained control of Guam and the Philippines from Spain in 1898, Japan controlled most of the western Pacific by 1914 and occupied many other islands during World War II. However, by the end of that war, Japan was defeated and the U.S. Pacific Fleet was the virtual master of the ocean. Since the end of World War II, many former colonies in the Pacific have become independent states.\n\nThe Pacific separates Asia and Australia from the Americas. It may be further subdivided by the equator into northern (North Pacific) and southern (South Pacific) portions. It extends from the Antarctic region in the South to the Arctic in the north. The Pacific Ocean encompasses approximately one-third of the Earth's surface, having an area of —significantly larger than Earth's entire landmass of some .\n\nExtending approximately from the Bering Sea in the Arctic to the northern extent of the circumpolar Southern Ocean at 60°S (older definitions extend it to Antarctica's Ross Sea), the Pacific reaches its greatest east-west width at about 5°N latitude, where it stretches approximately from Indonesia to the coast of Colombia—halfway around the world, and more than five times the diameter of the Moon. The lowest known point on Earth—the Mariana Trench—lies below sea level. Its average depth is , putting the total water volume at roughly .\n\nDue to the effects of plate tectonics, the Pacific Ocean is currently shrinking by roughly per year on three sides, roughly averaging a year. By contrast, the Atlantic Ocean is increasing in size.\n\nAlong the Pacific Ocean's irregular western margins lie many seas, the largest of which are the Celebes Sea, Coral Sea, East China Sea (East Sea), Philippine Sea, Sea of Japan (East Sea), South China Sea (South Sea), Sulu Sea, Tasman Sea, and Yellow Sea (West Sea of Korea). The Indonesian Seaway (including the Strait of Malacca and Torres Strait) joins the Pacific and the Indian Ocean to the west, and Drake Passage and the Strait of Magellan link the Pacific with the Atlantic Ocean on the east. To the north, the Bering Strait connects the Pacific with the Arctic Ocean.\n\nAs the Pacific straddles the 180th meridian, the \"West Pacific\" (or \"western Pacific\", near Asia) is in the Eastern Hemisphere, while the \"East Pacific\" (or \"eastern Pacific\", near the Americas) is in the Western Hemisphere.\n\nThe Southern Pacific Ocean harbors the Southeast Indian Ridge crossing from south of Australia turning into the Pacific-Antarctic Ridge (north of the South Pole) and merges with another ridge (south of South America) to form the East Pacific Rise which also connects with another ridge (south of North America) which overlooks the Juan de Fuca Ridge.\n\nFor most of Magellan's voyage from the Strait of Magellan to the Philippines, the explorer indeed found the ocean peaceful. However, the Pacific is not always peaceful. Many tropical storms batter the islands of the Pacific. The lands around the Pacific Rim are full of volcanoes and often affected by earthquakes. Tsunamis, caused by underwater earthquakes, have devastated many islands and in some cases destroyed entire towns.\n\nThe Martin Waldseemüller map of 1507 was the first to show the Americas separating two distinct oceans. Later, the Diogo Ribeiro map of 1529 was the first to show the Pacific at about its proper size.\n\n\n\" The status of Taiwan and China is disputed. For more information, see political status of Taiwan.\"\n\nThis ocean has most of the islands in the world. There are about 25,000 islands in the Pacific Ocean. The islands entirely within the Pacific Ocean can be divided into three main groups known as Micronesia, Melanesia and Polynesia. Micronesia, which lies north of the equator and west of the International Date Line, includes the Mariana Islands in the northwest, the Caroline Islands in the center, the Marshall Islands to the west and the islands of Kiribati in the southeast.\n\nMelanesia, to the southwest, includes New Guinea, the world's second largest island after Greenland and by far the largest of the Pacific islands. The other main Melanesian groups from north to south are the Bismarck Archipelago, the Solomon Islands, Santa Cruz, Vanuatu, Fiji and New Caledonia.\n\nThe largest area, Polynesia, stretching from Hawaii in the north to New Zealand in the south, also encompasses Tuvalu, Tokelau, Samoa, Tonga and the Kermadec Islands to the west, the Cook Islands, Society Islands and Austral Islands in the center, and the Marquesas Islands, Tuamotu, Mangareva Islands, and Easter Island to the east.\n\nIslands in the Pacific Ocean are of four basic types: continental islands, high islands, coral reefs and uplifted coral platforms. Continental islands lie outside the andesite line and include New Guinea, the islands of New Zealand, and the Philippines. Some of these islands are structurally associated with nearby continents. High islands are of volcanic origin, and many contain active volcanoes. Among these are Bougainville, Hawaii, and the Solomon Islands.\n\nThe coral reefs of the South Pacific are low-lying structures that have built up on basaltic lava flows under the ocean's surface. One of the most dramatic is the Great Barrier Reef off northeastern Australia with chains of reef patches. A second island type formed of coral is the uplifted coral platform, which is usually slightly larger than the low coral islands. Examples include Banaba (formerly Ocean Island) and Makatea in the Tuamotu group of French Polynesia.\n\nThe volume of the Pacific Ocean, representing about 50.1 percent of the world's oceanic water, has been estimated at some . Surface water temperatures in the Pacific can vary from , the freezing point of sea water, in the poleward areas to about near the equator. Salinity also varies latitudinally, reaching a maximum of 37 parts per thousand in the southeastern area. The water near the equator, which can have a salinity as low as 34 parts per thousand, is less salty than that found in the mid-latitudes because of abundant equatorial precipitation throughout the year. The lowest counts of less than 32 parts per thousand are found in the far north as less evaporation of seawater takes place in these frigid areas. The motion of Pacific waters is generally clockwise in the Northern Hemisphere (the North Pacific gyre) and counter-clockwise in the Southern Hemisphere. The North Equatorial Current, driven westward along latitude 15°N by the trade winds, turns north near the Philippines to become the warm Japan or Kuroshio Current.\n\nTurning eastward at about 45°N, the Kuroshio forks and some water moves northward as the Aleutian Current, while the rest turns southward to rejoin the North Equatorial Current. The Aleutian Current branches as it approaches North America and forms the base of a counter-clockwise circulation in the Bering Sea. Its southern arm becomes the chilled slow, south-flowing California Current. The South Equatorial Current, flowing west along the equator, swings southward east of New Guinea, turns east at about 50°S, and joins the main westerly circulation of the South Pacific, which includes the Earth-circling Antarctic Circumpolar Current. As it approaches the Chilean coast, the South Equatorial Current divides; one branch flows around Cape Horn and the other turns north to form the Peru or Humboldt Current.\n\nThe climate patterns of the Northern and Southern Hemispheres generally mirror each other. The trade winds in the southern and eastern Pacific are remarkably steady while conditions in the North Pacific are far more varied with, for example, cold winter temperatures on the east coast of Russia contrasting with the milder weather off British Columbia during the winter months due to the preferred flow of ocean currents.\n\nIn the tropical and subtropical Pacific, the El Niño Southern Oscillation (ENSO) affects weather conditions. To determine the phase of ENSO, the most recent three-month sea surface temperature average for the area approximately to the southeast of Hawaii is computed, and if the region is more than above or below normal for that period, then an El Niño or La Niña is considered in progress. \nIn the tropical western Pacific, the monsoon and the related wet season during the summer months contrast with dry winds in the winter which blow over the ocean from the Asian landmass. Worldwide, tropical cyclone activity peaks in late summer, when the difference between temperatures aloft and sea surface temperatures is the greatest. However, each particular basin has its own seasonal patterns. On a worldwide scale, May is the least active month, while September is the most active month. November is the only month in which all the tropical cyclone basins are active. The Pacific hosts the two most active tropical cyclone basins, which are the northwestern Pacific and the eastern Pacific. Pacific hurricanes form south of Mexico, sometimes striking the western Mexican coast and occasionally the southwestern United States between June and October, while typhoons forming in the northwestern Pacific moving into southeast and east Asia from May to December. Tropical cyclones also form in the South Pacific basin, where they occasionally impact island nations.\n\nIn the arctic, icing from October to May can present a hazard for shipping while persistent fog occurs from June to December. A climatological low in the Gulf of Alaska keeps the southern coast wet and mild during the winter months. The Westerlies and associated jet stream within the Mid-Latitudes can be particularly strong, especially in the Southern Hemisphere, due to the temperature difference between the tropics and Antarctica, which records the coldest temperature readings on the planet. In the Southern hemisphere, because of the stormy and cloudy conditions associated with extratropical cyclones riding the jet stream, it is usual to refer to the Westerlies as the Roaring Forties, Furious Fifties and Shrieking Sixties according to the varying degrees of latitude.\n\nThe ocean was first mapped by Abraham Ortelius; he called it Maris Pacifici following Ferdinand Magellan's description of it as \"a pacific sea\" during his circumnavigation from 1519 to 1522. To Magellan, it seemed much more calm (pacific) than the Atlantic.\n\nThe andesite line is the most significant regional distinction in the Pacific. A petrologic boundary, it separates the deeper, mafic igneous rock of the Central Pacific Basin from the partially submerged continental areas of felsic igneous rock on its margins. The andesite line follows the western edge of the islands off California and passes south of the Aleutian arc, along the eastern edge of the Kamchatka Peninsula, the Kuril Islands, Japan, the Mariana Islands, the Solomon Islands, and New Zealand's North Island.\n\nThe dissimilarity continues northeastward along the western edge of the Andes Cordillera along South America to Mexico, returning then to the islands off California. Indonesia, the Philippines, Japan, New Guinea, and New Zealand lie outside the andesite line.\n\nWithin the closed loop of the andesite line are most of the deep troughs, submerged volcanic mountains, and oceanic volcanic islands that characterize the Pacific basin. Here basaltic lavas gently flow out of rifts to build huge dome-shaped volcanic mountains whose eroded summits form island arcs, chains, and clusters. Outside the andesite line, volcanism is of the explosive type, and the Pacific Ring of Fire is the world's foremost belt of explosive volcanism. The Ring of Fire is named after the several hundred active volcanoes that sit above the various subduction zones.\n\nThe Pacific Ocean is the only ocean which is almost totally bounded by subduction zones. Only the Antarctic and Australian coasts have no nearby subduction zones.\n\nThe Pacific Ocean was born 750 million years ago at the breakup of Rodinia, although it is generally called the Panthalassic Ocean until the breakup of Pangea, about 200 million years ago. The oldest Pacific Ocean floor is only around 180 Ma old, with older crust subducted by now.\n\nThe Pacific Ocean contains several long seamount chains, formed by hotspot volcanism. These include the Hawaiian–Emperor seamount chain and the Louisville Ridge.\n\nThe exploitation of the Pacific's mineral wealth is hampered by the ocean's great depths. In shallow waters of the continental shelves off the coasts of Australia and New Zealand, petroleum and natural gas are extracted, and pearls are harvested along the coasts of Australia, Japan, Papua New Guinea, Nicaragua, Panama, and the Philippines, although in sharply declining volume in some cases.\n\nFish are an important economic asset in the Pacific. The shallower shoreline waters of the continents and the more temperate islands yield herring, salmon, sardines, snapper, swordfish, and tuna, as well as shellfish. Overfishing has become a serious problem in some areas. For example, catches in the rich fishing grounds of the Okhotsk Sea off the Russian coast have been reduced by at least half since the 1990s as a result of overfishing.\n\nThe quantity of small plastic fragments floating in the north-east Pacific Ocean increased a hundredfold between 1972 and 2012.\n\nMarine pollution is a generic term for the harmful entry into the ocean of chemicals or particles. The main culprits are those using the rivers for disposing of their waste. The rivers then empty into the ocean, often also bringing chemicals used as fertilizers in agriculture. The excess of oxygen-depleting chemicals in the water leads to hypoxia and the creation of a dead zone.\n\nMarine debris, also known as marine litter, is human-created waste that has ended up floating in a lake, sea, ocean, or waterway. Oceanic debris tends to accumulate at the center of gyres and coastlines, frequently washing aground where it is known as beach litter.\n\nIn addition, the Pacific Ocean has served as the crash site of satellites, including Mars 96, Fobos-Grunt, and Upper Atmosphere Research Satellite.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17453698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17453698", "title": "Pediment (geology)", "text": "Pediment (geology)\n\nA pediment is a very gently sloping (.5°-7°) inclined bedrock surface. It typically slopes down from the base of a steeper retreating desert cliff, or escarpment, but may continue to exist after the mountain has eroded away. It is caused by erosion. It develops when sheets of running water (laminar sheet flows) wash over it in intense rainfall events. It may be thinly covered with fluvial gravel that has washed over it from the foot of mountains produced by cliff retreat erosion. It is typically a concave surface gently sloping away from mountainous desert areas.\n\nIt is not to be confused with merged groups of alluvial fans (bajadas), which also may appear to gently slope from an escarpment, but are composed of material eroded from canyons, not bedrock.\n\nThree formational zones are recognized for pediments:\n\nCoalescence of pediments over a large area results in a pediplain.\n\n\n\n\nIn 1877 Grove Karl Gilbert first observed pediments in the Henry Mountains in Utah. He described the formation as \"hills of cut across the upturned edges of tilted beds\". Gilbert believed the origin of pediments in the Henry Mountains are due to stream and active erosion of deserts. This theory was advocated by Paige (1912), Blackwelder (1931), and Johnson 1932. Johnson came up with three zones of pediments.\n"}
{"id": "2245722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2245722", "title": "QDGC", "text": "QDGC\n\nQDGC - Quarter Degree Grid Cells (or QDS - Quarter degree Squares) are a way of dividing the longitude latitude degree square cells into smaller squares, forming in effect a system of geocodes. Historically QDGC has been used in a lot of African atlases. Several African biodiversity projects uses QDGC, among which The atlas of Southern African Birds is the most prominent one. In 2009 a paper by Larsen \"et al.\" describes the QDGC standard in detail.\n\nThe squares themselves are based on the degree squares covering earth. QDGC represents a way of making approximately equal area squares covering a specific area to represent specific qualities of the area covered. However, differences in area between 'squares' enlarge along with longitudinal distance and this can violate assumptions of many statistical analyses requiring truly equal-area grids. For instance species range modelling or estimates of ecological niche could be substantilly affected if data were not appriopriatelly transformed, e.g. projected onto a plane using a special projection.\n\nAround the equator we have 360 longitudinal lines, and from the north to the south pole we have 180 latitudinal lines. Together this gives us 64800 segments or tiles covering earth. The form of the squares becomes more rectangular the longer north we come. At the poles they are not square or even rectangular at all, but end up in elongated triangles.\n\nEach degree square is designated by a full reference to the main degree square. S01E010 is a reference to a square in Tanzania. S means the square is south of equator, and E means it is East of the zero meridian. The numbers refer to longitudinal and latitudinal degree.\n\nA square with no sublevel reference is also called QDGC level 0. This is square based on a full degree longitude by a full degree latitude. The QDGC level 0 squares are themselves divided into four.\n\nTo get smaller squares the above squares are again divided in four - giving us a total of 16 squares within a degree square. The names for the new level of squares are named the same way. The full reference of a square could then be:\n\n\nThe number of squares for each QDGC level can be calculated with this formula:\n\nnumber of squares = (2)\n\nTable showing level, number of squares and an example reference:\n\nTo decide which name a specific longitude latitude value belongs to it is possible to use the code provided on this Github project:\n\nDownload shapefiles datasets here:\n\n\nRelated websites\n"}
{"id": "55478652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55478652", "title": "Rebrovići", "text": "Rebrovići\n\nRebrovići is a village in Croatia, under the Tounj municipality, in Karlovac County.\n"}
{"id": "55633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55633", "title": "Region", "text": "Region\n\nIn geography, regions are areas that are broadly divided by physical characteristics (physical geography), human impact characteristics (human geography), and the interaction of humanity and the environment (environmental geography). Geographic regions and sub-regions are mostly described by their imprecisely defined, and sometimes transitory boundaries, except in human geography, where jurisdiction areas such as national borders are defined in law.\n\nApart from the global continental regions, there are also hydrospheric and atmospheric regions that cover the oceans, and discrete climates above the land and water masses of the planet. The land and water global regions are divided into subregions geographically bounded by large geological features that influence large-scale ecologies, such as plains and features.\n\nAs a way of describing spatial areas, the concept of regions is important and widely used among the many branches of geography, each of which can describe areas in regional terms. For example, ecoregion is a term used in environmental geography, cultural region in cultural geography, bioregion in biogeography, and so on. The field of geography that studies regions themselves is called regional geography.\n\nIn the fields of physical geography, ecology, biogeography, zoogeography, and environmental geography, regions tend to be based on natural features such as ecosystems or biotopes, biomes, drainage basins, natural regions, mountain ranges, soil types. Where human geography is concerned, the regions and subregions are described by the discipline of ethnography.\n\nA region has its own nature that could not be moved. The first nature is its natural environment (landform, climate, etc.). The second nature is its physical elements complex that were built by people in the past. The third nature is its socio-cultural context that could not be replaced by new immigrants.\n\nGlobal regions distinguishable from space, and are therefore clearly distinguished by the two basic terrestrial environments, land and water. However, they have been generally recognised as such much earlier by terrestrial cartography because of their impact on human geography. They are divided into largest of land regions, known as continents, and the largest of water regions known as oceans. There are also significant regions that do not belong to either classification, such as archipelago regions that are littoral regions, or earthquake regions that are defined in geology.\n\nContinental regions are usually based on broad experiences in human history and attempts to reduce very large areas to more manageable regionalization for the purpose of study. As such they are conceptual constructs, usually lacking distinct boundaries. Oceanic division into maritime regions are used in conjunction with the relationship to the central area of the continent, using directions of the compass.\n\nSome continental regions are defined by the major continental feature of their identity, such as the Amazon basin, or the Sahara, which both occupy a significant percentage of their respective continental land area.\n\nTo a large extent, major continental regions are mental constructs created by considering an efficient way to define large areas of the continents. For the most part, the images of the world are derived as much from academic studies, the media, or from personal experience of global exploration. They are a matter of collective human knowledge of its own planet and are attempts to better understand their environments.\n\nRegional geography is a branch of geography that studies regions of all sizes across the Earth. It has a prevailing descriptive character. The main aim is to understand or define the uniqueness or character of a particular region, which consists of natural as well as human elements. Attention is paid also to regionalization, which covers the proper techniques of space delimitation into regions.\n\nRegional geography is also considered as a certain approach to study in geographical sciences (similar to quantitative or critical geographies; for more information, see history of geography).\n\nHuman geography is a branch of geography that focuses on the study of patterns and processes that shape human interaction with various discrete environments. It encompasses human, political, cultural, social, and economic aspects among others that are often clearly delineated. While the major focus of human geography is not the physical landscape of the Earth (see physical geography), it is hardly possible to discuss human geography without referring to the physical landscape on which human activities are being played out, and environmental geography is emerging as a link between the two. Regions of human geography can be divided into many broad categories:\n\nThe field of historical geography involves the study of human history as it relates to places and regions or the study of how places and regions have changed over time.\n\nD. W. Meinig, a historical geographer of America, describes many historical regions in his book \"The Shaping of America: A Geographical Perspective on 500 Years of History\". For example, in identifying European \"source regions\" in early American colonization efforts, he defines and describes the \"Northwest European Atlantic Protestant Region\", which includes sub-regions such as the \"Western Channel Community\", which itself is made of sub-regions such as the \"English West Country\" of Cornwall, Devon, Somerset, and Dorset.\n\nIn describing historic regions of America, Meinig writes of \"The Great Fishery\" off the coast of Newfoundland and New England, an oceanic region that includes the Grand Banks. He rejects regions traditionally used in describing American history, like New France, \"West Indies\", the Middle Colonies, and the individual colonies themselves (Province of Maryland, for example). Instead he writes of \"discrete colonization areas,\" which may be named after colonies but rarely adhere strictly to political boundaries. Historic regions of this type Meinig writes about include \"Greater New England\" and its major sub-regions of \"Plymouth,\" \"New Haven shores\" (including parts of Long Island), \"Rhode Island\" (or \"Narragansett Bay\"), \"the Piscataqua,\" \"Massachusetts Bay,\" \"Connecticut Valley,\" and to a lesser degree, regions in the sphere of influence of Greater New England, \"Acadia\" (Nova Scotia), \"Newfoundland and The Fishery/The Banks.\"\n\nOther examples of historical regions include Iroquoia, Ohio Country, Illinois Country, and Rupert's Land.\n\nA tourism region is a geographical region that has been designated by a governmental organization or tourism bureau as having common cultural or environmental characteristics. These regions are often named after a geographical, former, or current administrative region or may have a name created for tourism purposes. The names often evoke certain positive qualities of the area and suggest a coherent tourism experience to visitors. Countries, states, provinces, and other administrative regions are often carved up into tourism regions to facilitate attracting visitors.\n\nSome of the more famous tourism regions based on historical or current administrative regions include Tuscany in Italy and Yucatán in Mexico. Famous examples of regions created by a government or tourism bureau include the United Kingdom's Lake District and California's Wine Country.\ngreat plains region\n\nNatural resources often occur in distinct regions. Natural resource regions can be a topic of physical geography or environmental geography, but also have a strong element of human geography and economic geography. A coal region, for example, is a physical or geomorphological region, but its development and exploitation can make it into an economic and a cultural region. Some examples of natural resource regions include the Rumaila Field, the oil field that lies along the border or Iraq and Kuwait and played a role in the Gulf War; the Coal Region of Pennsylvania, which is a historical region as well as a cultural, physical, and natural resource region; the South Wales Coalfield, which like Pennsylvania's coal region is a historical, cultural, and natural region; the Kuznetsk Basin, a similarly important coal mining region in Russia; Kryvbas, the economic and iron ore mining region of Ukraine; and the James Bay Project, a large region of Quebec where one of the largest hydroelectric systems in the world has been developed.\n\nSometimes a region associated with a religion is given a name, like Christendom, a term with medieval and renaissance connotations of Christianity as a sort of social and political polity. The term Muslim world is sometimes used to refer to the region of the world where Islam is dominant. These broad terms are very vague when used to describe regions.\n\nWithin some religions there are clearly defined regions. The Roman Catholic Church, the Church of England, the Eastern Orthodox Church, and others, define ecclesiastical regions with names such as diocese, eparchy, ecclesiastical provinces, and parish.\n\nFor example, the United States is divided into 32 Roman Catholic ecclesiastical provinces. The Lutheran Church–Missouri Synod is organized into 33 geographic \"districts\", which are subdivided into \"circuits\" (the Atlantic District (LCMS), for example). The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints uses regions similar to dioceses and parishes, but uses terms like ward and stake.\n\nIn the field of political geography, regions tend to be based on political units such as sovereign states; subnational units such as administrative regions, provinces, states (in the United States), counties, townships, territories, etc.; and multinational groupings, including formally defined units such as the European Union, the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, and NATO, as well as informally defined regions such as the Third World, Western Europe, and the Middle East.\n\nThe word \"region\" is taken from the Latin \"regio\" (derived from \"regere\", to rule), and a number of countries have borrowed the term as the formal name for a type of subnational entity (e.g., the \"región\", used in Chile). In English, the word is also used as the conventional translation for equivalent terms in other languages (e.g., the \"область\" (\"oblast\"), used in Russia alongside a broader term \"регион\").\n\nThe following countries use the term \"region\" (or its cognate) as the name of a type of subnational administrative unit:\nThe Canadian province of Québec also uses the \"administrative region\" (\"région administrative\").\n\nScotland had local government regions from 1975 to 1996.\n\nIn Spain the official name of the autonomous community of Murcia is \"Región de Murcia\". Also, some single-province autonomous communities such as Madrid use the term \"región\" interchangeably with \"comunidad autónoma\".\n\nTwo län (counties) in Sweden are officially called 'regions': Skåne and Västra Götaland, and there is currently a controversial proposal to divide the rest of Sweden into large regions, replacing the current counties.\n\nThe government of the Philippines uses the term \"region\" (in Filipino, \"rehiyon\") when it's necessary to group provinces, the primary administrative subdivision of the country. This is also the case in Brazil, which groups its primary administrative divisions (\"estados\"; \"states\") into \"grandes regiões\" (greater regions) for statistical purposes, while Russia uses \"экономические районы\" (economic regions) in a similar way, as does Romania and Venezuela.\n\nThe government of Singapore makes use of the term \"region\" for its own administrative purposes.\n\nThe following countries use an administrative subdivision conventionally referred to as a region in English:\n\nChina has five 自治区 (\"zìzhìqū\") and two 特別行政區 (or 特别行政区; \"tèbiéxíngzhèngqū\"), which are translated as \"autonomous region\" and \"special administrative region\", respectively.\n\nThere are many relatively small regions based on local government agencies such as districts, agencies, or regions. In general, they are all regions in the general sense of being bounded spatial units. Examples include electoral districts such as Washington's 6th congressional district and Tennessee's 1st congressional district; school districts such as Granite School District and Los Angeles Unified School District; economic districts such as the Reedy Creek Improvement District; metropolitan areas such as the Seattle metropolitan area, and metropolitan districts such as the Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago, the Las Vegas-Clark County Library District, the Metropolitan Police Service of Greater London, as well as other local districts like the York Rural Sanitary District, the Delaware River Port Authority, the Nassau County Soil and Water Conservation District, and C-TRAN.\n\nThe traditional territorial divisions of some countries are also commonly rendered in English as \"regions\". These informal divisions do not form the basis of the modern administrative divisions of these countries, but still define and delimit local regional identity and sense of belonging. Examples include:\n\n\nFunctional regions are usually understood to be the areas organised by the horizontal functional relations (flows, interactions) that are maximised within a region and minimised across its borders so that the principles of internal cohesiveness and external separation regarding spatial interactions are met (see, for instance, Farmer and Fotheringham, 2011; Klapka, Halas, 2016; Smart, 1974). A functional region is not an abstract spatial concept, but to a certain extent it can be regarded as a reflection of the spatial behaviour of individuals in a geographic space. \nThe functional region is conceived as a general concept while its inner structure, inner spatial flows, and interactions need not necessarily show any regular pattern, only selfcontainment. The concept of self-containment remains the only crucial defining characteristic of a functional region. Nodal regions, functional urban regions, daily urban systems, local labour-market areas (LLMAs), or travel-to-work areas (TTWAs) are considered to be special instances of a general functional region that need to fulfil some specific conditions regarding, for instance, the character of the region-organising interaction or the presence of urban cores, (Halas et al., 2015).\n\nIn military usage, a region is shorthand for the name of a military formation larger than an Army Group and smaller than an Army Theater or simply Theater. The full name of the military formation is Army Region. The size of an Army Region can vary widely but is generally somewhere between about 1 million and 3 million soldiers. Two or more Army Regions could make up an Army Theater. An Army Region is typically commanded by a full General (US four stars), a Field Marshal, or General of the Army (US five stars), or Generalissimo (Soviet Union). Due to the large size of this formation, its use is rarely employed. Some of the very few examples of an Army Region are each of the Eastern, Western, and southern (mostly in Italy) fronts in Europe during World War II. The military map unit symbol for this echelon of formation (see Military organization and APP-6A) consists of six Xs.\n\nMedia geography is a spatio-temporal understanding, brought through different gadgets of media, nowadays, media became inevitable at different proportions and everyone supposed to consumed at different gravity. The spatial attributes are studied with the help of media outputs in shape of images which are contested in nature and pattern as well where politics is inseparable. Media geography is giving spatial understanding of mediated image.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16370469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16370469", "title": "Regions of Malawi", "text": "Regions of Malawi\n\nMalawi is divided into 3 regions which comprise a combined total of 28 districts.\n\nThe regions of Malawi are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19964302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19964302", "title": "Richard Horwood", "text": "Richard Horwood\n\nRichard Horwood (1757/8–1803) was a surveyor and cartographer. Between 1792 and 1799 he published a \"Plan of the Cities of London and Westminster the Borough of Southwark and Parts adjoining Shewing every House\". At the time this was the largest map ever printed in Britain. After he decided to chart the entire city of London, down to each individual building, Horwood set about soliciting subscriptions to finance the project in 1790. His intention was to publish the complete map within two years, at a scale of 26 inches to the mile. However, the scope of the project was so extensive, and his cost to complete it so high, that rather than taking the estimated two years, the project took almost ten to complete. Despite acquiring royal patronage from King George III, the project suffered financial hardship, making it even more difficult to produce. However, Horwood eventually published the entire map, consisting of 32 sheets (four rows of eight columns). The last sheet was made available in 1799.\n\nIn 1800 he wrote of the map, in a letter to the Society for the Encouragement of Arts, Manufacture and Commerce:\n\nHorwood also published a map of Liverpool, the city where he died impoverished in 1803, not long after completing his extensive project.\n\nSections of an 1813 edition of the London map are reproduced in Charles Palliser's novel \"The Quincunx\". The story is set a few years after the publication of the map, which is used by one of the characters.\n\nA selection of the Horwood maps were used in the publication of \"Timbuctoo\", a novel based on the adventures of Robert Adams, which includes five large fold-out maps of London.\n\n"}
{"id": "4625156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4625156", "title": "Route card", "text": "Route card\n\nA route card is a document that is used by hillwalkers as an aid to navigation and route planning. The military also use a similar technique for planning night marches and/or patrols.\n\nThe planned route is broken down into discrete sections termed \"legs\" or \"stages\". Whenever possible, each leg will start and finish at a clearly defined topographical feature such as a lake, knoll, saddle, stream junction and so on. In most cases the legs are defined as being the longest section that might be safely followed on a single compass bearing. The object is to split the overall route into sections that can be readily undertaken in conditions of poor visibility such as in cloud, fog or at night.\n\nIn addition to the compass bearing, for each leg the total distance will be measured as well as the height gained or lost and the steepness of the ground. Using this information an estimated time to complete the leg will be calculated usually using Naismith's Rule or one of its variations. These times are then added to estimate the total time needed for the expedition.\n\nFor each leg note may also be taken of potential sources of danger along the route such as cliffs or of handrail/collecting features to aid in confirming the route.\n\nFor formal expeditions or excursions the leader may include the following information.\n\n\nA copy of the route card is then left with a responsible person so as to assist the emergency services in the event that the group should suffer a mishap. This also avoids groups being reported as missing prematurely or without due cause.\n\nIn typical use, the route card will not be followed exactly by the party leader but is used as a backup if conditions deteriorate. When following legs on a compass bearing, the estimated time is not usually used as a precise indicator of when the leg is over but as a kind of fail-safe to stop the group from overshooting the actual objective and getting lost. If a precise estimate is needed, pace-counting may be used instead if terrain permits. Nowadays, it is typical to enter the co-ordinates from the route card into a handheld GPS unit and use this in conjunction with a compass if conditions deteriorate. In some cases, each member of the expedition may memorize a section of the route and have their own compass preset to the relevant bearing. This is a particular technique for military night patrols where the soldiers each lead a section of the route.\n\nMilitary use these to assist a planned route for night navigation same as a route card.\n\nIt is very simply a route card just showing the legs or stages of the route. Some commanders have a full detailed route card as well as the moon route card when doing night navigation. \n\nThe two reasons for this is that you can pull the Moon card out on the march and hold it up to the moon light to check the bearing or grid reference of the next leg, and to stop you getting out your torch and giving your position away.\n\n"}
{"id": "173135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=173135", "title": "Russian Far East", "text": "Russian Far East\n\nThe Russian Far East (, literally “The distant East of Russia) comprises the Russian part of the Far East - the extreme eastern territory of Russia, between Lake Baikal in Eastern Siberia and the Pacific Ocean. The Far Eastern Federal District, which covers this area, borders with the Siberian Federal District to the west. The Far Eastern Federal District has land borders with the People's Republic of China and with the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea to the south west. It has maritime borders with Japan and with the United States. Although traditionally considered part of Siberia, the Russian Far East is categorized separately from Siberia in Russian regional schemes (and previously during the Soviet era when it was called the Soviet Far East).\n\nIn Russia, the region is usually referred to as just \"Far East\" (). What is known in English as the Far East is usually referred to as \"the Asia-Pacific Region\" (, abbreviated to ), or \"East Asia\" ().\n\n\n\n\n\n\nRussia reached the Pacific coast in 1647 with the establishment of Okhotsk, and consolidated its control over the Russian Far East in the 19th century, after annexation part of Chinese Manchuria. Primorskaya Oblast was established as a separate administrative division of the Russian Empire in 1856, with its administrative center at Khabarovsk.\n\nSeveral entities with the name \"Far East\" had existed in the first half of the 20th century, all with rather different boundaries:\n\nUntil 2000, the Russian Far East lacked officially defined boundaries. A single term \"Siberia and the Far East\" () was often used to refer to Russia's regions east of the Urals without drawing a clear distinction between \"Siberia\" and \"the Far East\".\nIn 2000, Russia's federal subjects were grouped into larger federal districts, and the Far Eastern Federal District was created, comprising Amur Oblast, Chukotka Autonomous Okrug, Jewish Autonomous Oblast, Kamchatka Oblast with Koryak Autonomous Okrug, Khabarovsk Krai, Magadan Oblast, Primorsky Krai, the Sakha (Yakutia) Republic, and Sakhalin Oblast. Since 2000, the term \"Far East\" has been increasingly used in Russia to refer to the federal district, though it is often also used more loosely.\n\nDefined by the boundaries of the federal district, the Far East has an area of 6.2 million square kilometers—over one-third of Russia's total area.\n\nRussia in the early 1900s persistently sought a warm water port on the Pacific Ocean for the navy as well as to facilitate maritime trade. The recently established Pacific seaport of Vladivostok was operational only during the summer season, but Port Arthur in Manchuria was operational all year. After the First Sino-Japanese War and the failure of the 1903 negotiations between Japan and the Tsars's government, Japan chose war to protect its domination of Korea and adjacent territories. Russia, meanwhile, saw war as a means of distracting its populace from government repression and of rallying patriotism in the aftermath of several general strikes. Japan issued a declaration of war on 8 February 1904. However, three hours before Japan's declaration of war was received by the Russian Government, the Imperial Japanese Navy attacked the Russian Far East Fleet at Port Arthur. Eight days later Russia declared war on Japan.\n\nThe war ended in September 1905 with a Japanese victory following the fall of Port Arthur and the failed Russian invasion of Japan through the Korean Peninsula and Northeast China; also, Japan had threatened to invade Primorsky Krai via Korea. The Treaty of Portsmouth was later signed and both Japan and Russia agreed to evacuate Manchuria and return its sovereignty to China, but Japan was allowed to lease the Liaodong Peninsula (containing Port Arthur and Talien), and the Russian rail system in southern Manchuria with its access to strategic resources. Japan also received the southern half of the Island of Sakhalin from Russia. Russia was also forced to confiscate land from Korean settlers who formed the majority of Primorsky Krai's population due to a fear of an invasion of Korea and ousting of Japanese troops by Korean guerrillas.\n\nBetween 1937 and 1939, the Soviet Union under Joseph Stalin deported over 200,000 Koreans to Uzbekistan and Kazakhstan, fearing that the Koreans might act as spies for Japan. Many Koreans died on the way in cattle trains due to starvation, illness, or freezing conditions. Many community leaders were purged and executed, Koryo-saram were not allowed to travel outside of Central Asia for the next 15 years. Koreans were also not allowed to use the Korean language and its use began to become lost with the involvement of Koryo-mar and the use of Russian.\n\nDevelopment of numerous remote locations relied on GULAG labour camps during Stalin's rule, especially in the region's northern half. After that, the large-scale use of forced labour waned and was superseded by volunteer employees attracted by relatively high wages.\n\nDuring the Japanese invasion of Manchuria in 1931, the Soviets occupied Bolshoy Ussuriysky Island, Yinlong Island, and several adjacent islets to separate the city of Khabarovsk from the territory controlled by a possibly hostile power.\n\nIndeed, Japan turned its military interests to Soviet territories. Conflicts between the Japanese and the Soviets frequently happened on the border of Manchuria between 1938 and 1945. The first confrontation occurred in Primorsky Krai, the Battle of Lake Khasan was an attempted military incursion of Manchukuo (Japanese) into the territory claimed by the Soviet Union. This incursion was founded in the beliefs of the Japanese side that the Soviet Union misinterpreted the demarcation of the boundary based on the Treaty of Peking between Imperial Russia and Manchu China. Primorsky Krai was always threatened by a Japanese invasion despite the fact that most of the remaining clashes occurred in Manchukuo.\n\nThe clashes ended shortly before the conclusion of the World War II when a weakened Japan found its territories of Manchukuo, Mengjiang, Korea, and South Sakhalin invaded by Soviet and Mongolian troops.\n\nPrimorsky Krai was a strategic location in World War II for both the Soviet Union and Japan and clashes over the territory were common as the Soviets and the Allies considered it a key location to invade Japan through Korea, and Japan viewed it as a key location to begin a mass invasion of Eastern Russia. Primorsky Krai also served as the Soviet Union's Pacific headquarters in the war to plan an invasion for allied troops of Korea in order to reach Japan.\n\nAfter the Soviet invasion, Manchukuo and Mengjiang were returned to China and Korea became liberated. The Soviet Union also occupied and annexed Kuril Islands and southern Sakhalin. Soviet invasion of Japan proper never happened.\n\nDuring the Korean War, Primorsky Krai became the site of extreme security concern for the Soviet Union.\n\nVladivostok was the site of the Strategic Arms Limitation Talks in 1974. At the time, the Soviet Union and the United States decided quantitative limits on various nuclear weapons systems and banned the construction of new land-based ICBM launchers. Vladivostok and other cities in Primorsky Krai soon became closed cities because of the base of the Soviet Pacific Fleet.\n\nIncursions of American reconnaissance aircraft from nearby Alaska sometimes happened. These concerns of the Soviet military caused the infamous Korean Air Lines Flight 007 incident in 1983.\n\nIn 2016, President Vladimir Putin proposed the Russian Homestead Act to populate the Russian Far East.\n\nJapanese citizens can visit Russian Vladivostok under a simplified visa regime. A simplified electronic visa to Primorsky Krai in 2016 brought 1338 citizens of Japan.\n\nAccording to the 2010 Census, Far Eastern Federal District had a population of 6,293,129.\nMost of it is concentrated in the southern parts. Given the vast territory of the Russian Far East, 6.3 million people translates to slightly less than one person per square kilometer, making the Russian Far East one of the most sparsely populated areas in the world. The population of the Russian Far East has been rapidly declining since the dissolution of the Soviet Union (even more so than for Russia in general), dropping by 14% in the last fifteen years. The Russian government has been discussing a range of re-population programs to avoid the forecast drop to 4.5 million people by 2015, hoping to attract in particular the remaining Russian population of the near abroad but eventually agreeing on a program to resettle Ukrainian Illegal immigrants.\n\nEthnic Russians and Ukrainians make up the majority of the population.\n\n75% of the population is urban. The largest cities are:\n\n\nIn 2016 an ambitious program was approved which hoped to resettle at least 500,000 Ukrainians in the Far East. This included giving free land to attract voluntary immigrants from Ukraine and the settlement of refugees from East Ukraine.\n\nThe original population groups of the Russian Far East include (grouped by language group):\n\nThe region was not connected with the rest of Russia via domestic highways, until M58 highway was completed in 2010.\n\nUniquely for Russia, most cars have Right Hand Drive (73% of all cars in the region), though traffic still flows on the right-hand side of the road.\n\nRailways were better developed. The Trans-Siberian Railway and Baikal–Amur Mainline (since 1984) provide connection with Siberia (and the rest of the country). Amur–Yakutsk Mainline is aimed to link the city of Yakutsk to the Russian railway network. Passenger trains reach Nizhny Bestyakh as of 2013.\n\nLike in nearby Siberia, for many remote localities, aviation is the main mode of transportation to/from civilisation, but the infrastructure is often poor.\n\nMaritime transport is also important for delivering supplies to localities at (or near) the Pacific and Arctic coasts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38185235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38185235", "title": "Sandworm (installation)", "text": "Sandworm (installation)\n\nSandworm (2012) is a site-specific art installation and a fusion of environmental art and architecture by Finnish architect Marco Casagrande situated on the dunes of Wenduine beach in Belgium. The curvaceous structure is made entirely from willow. \nThe fifty-metre long organic structure stretches out between the dunes like an enormous wooden worm. It is part of the Beaufort Triennial of Contemporary art. \n\nThe installation is an organic shell built from willow branches woven through arches of various heights placed at a length of 45 meters and a height and width of 10 meters. It falls within a local long tradition of willow weaving normally more modest in scale. Sandworm has been created in an undulating shape upon the tidal beaches of Wenduine town. From a distance, the mounds of tree remnants suggest the form of a massive creature, emerging out of the ground. Up close, visitors can investigate the textured surface of the structure, and they are invited to interact with the sculpture by walking through the interior. The space is used for picnics, relaxation and “post industrial meditation”. Building on Monet’s beliefs that it is only the surrounding atmosphere that gives subjects their true value, Casagrande works in harmony with the air and light in this architectural piece. \n\nCasagrande describes the work as “weak architecture” – a human-made structure that wishes to become part of nature through flexibility and organic presence. The visitors are describing the Sandworm as a willow cathedral finely tuned to celebrate the site specific conditions of the Wenduine tidal beaches. As one visitor, Peter Beyen, puts it: “The artist believes that architectural control goes against nature and thus also against architecture… To the Finnish artist Marco Casagrande designing is not sufficient. Design should not replace reality. The building must grow out of the location, it must react to its environment, it must be a reflection of life and also be itself, as every other living being.” Casagrande believes that the built human environment should be a mediator between human nature and nature itself. To be part of this, man must be weak.\n"}
{"id": "52975219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52975219", "title": "Simingi", "text": "Simingi\n\nSimingi was a Roman era civitas (town) of the Roman province of Africa Proconsularis.\n\nThe town was the seat of an ancient bishopric, suffragan of the Archdiocese of Carthage. Only two bishops of this diocese are documented. \n\nIn modern times Simingi became a titular bishopric. Simingi's bishop is Galo Fernández Villaseca of Santiago, Chile.\n"}
{"id": "1569661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1569661", "title": "Suur Munamägi", "text": "Suur Munamägi\n\nSuur Munamägi (in translation \"Big Egg Mountain\") is the highest peak in Estonia (and the Baltic states), reaching above sea level. It is located near the village of Haanja, in Võru County in the south-eastern corner of Estonia, close to the borders of both Latvia and Russia. The landscape around the peak - the Haanja Upland - is gently hilly.\n\nOn the hill, there have been 5 towers. The first tower, built in 1812, is the subject of a folk legend: it was supposedly destroyed because it confused ships headed toward the coast. The second tower was built in 1870 by a local barman. The tower was high. The tower was popular amongst local people because of its bar. Only 4–5 people fit in the tower and the trees started to ruin the view.\n\nThe third tower was built on the same building as the second tower. The tower was built up to .\n\nThe fourth tower was built in 1925, when Estonia was an independent state. The tower was built in 3 months and it was high. The Võru county then built paths for people, cleaned the forest and put benches in front of the tower. The fourth tower was ceremonially opened on 19 July 1925. Soon after that people realized that the wooden tower was old and again the trees started blocking the view — 17 metres was not high enough.\n\nThe new fifth tower was built of ferroconcrete in 1939. The tower was made high. It was built of 36 000 bricks and 80 tons of cement which all were carried up to the mountain. The tower was finished in the same year in June but the ceremonial opening was cancelled because of World War II. The tower was not seriously harmed in war and the repair was made in 1955. The Memorial Museum of Fr.R. Kreutzwald that was at that time the owner of the tower, started to modernize the tower and fix its surroundings.\n\nIn 1969 the museum built an additional floor on the top of the tower and changed the construction of the stairway on the top floors. The add-on was engineered by Toomas Rein and Veljo Kaasik. The tower was now high. The view from the height of is in radius.\n\nA renovation project of the tower was started in 1998 by Haanja parish. In 1999–2000 Toomas Rein carried it out. In 2002 the piping of the tower was engineered and completed next year. From August 2004 to July 2005 major renovation works were made on Suur Munamägi: the observation tower was renovated, the tower’s elevator and glass café were built, the paths to the tower re-made, the lightning of the pedestrian path and the tower was made. The total cost of the works was ca 10 million kroons. The construction was financed by the EU Phare program, Enterprise Estonia, the Estonian government, Environmental Investment Centre, private supporters and the budget of the parish.\n\nOn 24 July 2005 the renovated observation tower of Suur Munamägi was festively opened.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2398131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2398131", "title": "Tactile graphic", "text": "Tactile graphic\n\nTactile graphics, including tactile pictures, tactile diagrams, tactile maps, and tactile graphs, are images that use raised surfaces so that a visually impaired person can feel them. They are used to convey non-textual information such as maps, paintings, graphs and diagrams.\n\nTactile graphics can be seen as a subset of accessible images. Images can be made accessible to the visually impaired in various ways, such as verbal description, sound, or haptic (tactual) feedback.\nOne of the most common uses for tactile graphics is the production of tactile maps.\n\nThe types and forms of tactile maps began with the oldest and most rudimentary or a mixed media format. This tactile map is produced by simply attaching objects to a substrate to represent different items or symbols. More recent tactile maps are produced by computers through different means such as an ink-jet printers.\n\nThermoform is one of the most common methods of producing tactile maps. This process is also known as vacuum forming. Thermoform maps or plans are created from a process where a sheet of plastic is heated and vacuumed on top of a model or master. The master can be made from many substances, although certain materials are more durable than others. Since this process involves creating a mold, it is somewhat time consuming.\n\nSwell paper has a special coating of heat-reactive chemicals. Microcapsules of alcohol implanted in the paper fracture when exposed to heat and make the surface of the paper inflate. Placing black ink on the paper prior to a heat process provides control over the raised surface areas. This type of map is not as robust as the Thermoform map, but can be produced with less effort and expense.\n\nModified Braille embossers can also be used to produce tactile paper maps.\n\nInk-jet tactile maps are made by layering a specially designed ink. Each layer is cured by UV irradiation before the next layer is added. This technology is an offshoot of other industries, such as circuit board manufacturing and biomedical applications.\n\nThe substrate for tactile maps is a very important attribute, since different materials can enhance or reduce legibility and durability. Several types of substrates can be used to produce a tactile map. These include rough and smooth plastic, rough and smooth paper, microcapsule paper, Braillon, and aluminum. Many factors should be considered when choosing a substrate; these include but are not limited to function, durability, and portability.\n\nTactile map variables: Just as Jacques Bertin retinal variables help determine how visual maps are produced; tactile maps have a formula as well. Although researchers have not standardized tactile map variables, these nine are usually included depending on the \"substrate\": vibration, flutter, pressure, temperature, size, shape, texture/grain, orientation, and elevation.\n\nTypical tactile elevations: Thermoformed maps usually have an elevation of at least 1mm. Swell Paper averages 0.5 mm and braille embossers have a range from 0.25–1 mm. Ink-jet printers can be controlled to vary elevation as needed. A (2009) study conducted by Sandra Jehoel tested various height levels and estimated that preferred tactile elevations fall between 40 and 80 micrometres depending on the substrate background, shape of the object and smoothness of lines. Symbols such as a triangle, square and a circle should have a minimum base line length of 6.4, 5.0 and 5.5 mm respectively for proper recognition.\n\nAudio tactile maps or graphic tablets are interactive devices. Electronic tactile talking touch pad instruments use Macromedia Flash software with audio files to convey information to the blind or visually impaired user. As the user’s finger engages a feature or symbol a recording provides information about the object, symbol or area. For example, the sound of splashing water can be used for areas such as rivers or oceans. This format has great potential for transmitting information over the Internet which can be downloaded to a computer or hand-held device. \nA great deal of hardware already exists that can be used by the blind or visually impaired to interact with computer screen graphics. A vibrating mouse or other force feedback devices can be adapted to turn any visual software generated map into a hybrid tactile map. The interactive signal to a device can be varied when crossing a boundary or symbol.\n\nHigh resolution refreshable braille displays containing 1,500 to 12,000 pixels are already available in market. Graphic braille display available in the market is DV-2 (from KGS ) with 1,536 pixels, Hyperbraille with 7,200 pixels and TACTISPLAY Table/Walk (from Tactisplay Corp.) with 2,400/12,000 pixels respectively. TACTISPLAY table has total 12,000 pixels arranged in 120x100.\n\nZoom maps are a recently developed tactile map. These maps are designed specifically for those who can read braille and have had no previous interaction with tactile maps. The term zoom is comparable to a zoom-able visual raster internet map. A country is divided into regions on the first map then the next zoomed map will have a breakdown of the regions and so forth until a city level is reached. These successive maps rely on a dependable texture as the map zoom progresses. This produces a familiarity as one zooms from the proceeding map. This is achieved in many instances with line orientation, area and consistent shape. The Braille text on the map is placed next to a rectangular textured legend for area identification.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2021483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2021483", "title": "Université Notre Dame des Ombres", "text": "Université Notre Dame des Ombres\n\nIn DC Comics Université Notre Dame des Ombres () is a special university in France which was attended by the Crimson Fox twins and Dee Tyler (Phantom Lady).\n\nSandra Knight, the original Phantom Lady, became the dean of this School in her later years. She may have been an 'old girl' herself, as was the English girl Emma Knight, daughter of Sir John Knight, who went on to become an agent herself in the 1960s as Mrs. Emma Peel (see \"Action Comics Weekly\" #636).\n\nRecords of other graduates are still classified as \"Top Secret\", but given the school's location and 200 year history, it is possible that other female spies may well have passed through the doors of this fabled institution, including such as agents known under the code names of Sandra of the Secret Service, Mademoiselle Marie and Madame Zero. Obviously, given the nature of these ladies' line of work, any form of verification is impossible.\n\n\"Action Comics Weekly\" #641 reveals that the future Diana Tyler, mother of the second Phantom Lady, was connected to the college until the mid-1960s, although she may well have been a tutor rather than a trainee agent.\n"}
