{"id": "14862085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14862085", "title": "3C 303", "text": "3C 303\n\n3C 303 is a Seyfert galaxy with a quasar-like appearance located in the constellation Boötes.\n\n"}
{"id": "49755315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49755315", "title": "Abell 576", "text": "Abell 576\n\nAbell 576 is a galaxy cluster in the constellation Lynx. Detailed study has revealed that there are two clusters in the process of merging.\n"}
{"id": "2929441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2929441", "title": "Ancestry.com", "text": "Ancestry.com\n\nAncestry.com LLC is a privately held online company based in Lehi, Utah. The largest for-profit genealogy company in the world, it operates a network of genealogical, historical record and genetic genealogy websites.\n\nAs of November 2018, the company claimed to provide access to approximately 10 billion historical records, to have 3 million paying subscribers and to have sold 14 million DNA kits to customers.\n\nOn January 1, 1997, Infobases' parent company, Western Standard Publishing, purchased Ancestry, Inc., publisher of \"Ancestry\" magazine and genealogy books. Western Standard Publishing's CEO was Joe Cannon, one of the principal owners of Geneva Steel.\n\nIn 1990, Paul B. Allen and Dan Taggart, two Brigham Young University graduates, founded Infobases and began offering Latter-day Saints (LDS) publications on floppy disks. In 1988, Allen had worked at Folio Corporation, founded by his brother Curt and his brother-in-law Brad Pelo.\n\nInfobases' first products were floppy disks and compact disks sold from the back seat of the founders' car. In 1994, Infobases was named among \"Inc.\" magazine's 500 fastest-growing companies. Their first offering on CD was the LDS Collectors Edition, released in April 1995, selling for $299.95, which was offered in an online version in August 1995. Ancestry officially went online with the launch of Ancestry.com in 1996.\n\nIn July 1997, Allen and Taggart purchased Western Standard's interest in Ancestry, Inc. At the time, Brad Pelo was president and CEO of Infobases, and president of Western Standard. Less than six months earlier, he had been president of Folio Corporation, whose digital technology Infobases was using. In March 1997, Folio was sold to Open Market for $45 million. The first public evidence of the change in ownership of \"Ancestry\" magazine came with the July/August 1997 issue, which showed a newly reorganized Ancestry, Inc., as its publisher. That issue's masthead also included the first use of the Ancestry.com web address.\n\nMore growth for Infobases occurred in July 1997, when Ancestry, Inc. purchased Bookcraft, Inc., a publisher of books written by leaders and officers of the LDS Church. Infobases had published many of Bookcraft's books as part of its LDS Collector's Library. Pelo also announced that Ancestry's product line would be greatly expanded in both CDs and online. Alan Ashton, a longtime investor in Infobases and founder of WordPerfect, was its chairman of the board.\n\nAllen and Taggart began running Ancestry, Inc. independently from Infobases in July 1997, and began creating one of the largest online subscription-based genealogy database services.\n\nIn April 1999, to better focus on its Ancestry.com and MyFamily.com Internet businesses, Infobases sold the Bookcraft brand name and its catalog of print books to its major competitor in the LDS book market, Deseret Book. Included in the sale were the rights to Infobases' LDS Collectors Library on CD. A year earlier, Deseret Book had released a competing product called GospeLink, and the two products were combined as a single product by Deseret Book.\n\nThe MyFamily.com website launched in December 1998, with additional free sites beginning in March 1999. The site generated one million registered users within its first 140 days. The company raised more than US$90 million in venture capital from investors and changed its name on November 17, 1999, from Ancestry.com, Inc. to MyFamily.com, Inc. Its three Internet genealogy sites were then called Ancestry.com, FamilyHistory.com, and MyFamily.com. Sales were about US$62 million for 2002 and US$99 million for 2003.\nIn March 2004, the company, which had outgrown its call center in Orem, Utah, opened a new call center, which accommodates about 700 agents at a time, in Provo. Heritage Makers was acquired by MyFamily.com in September 2005.\n\nWhile the company had been offering free access to Ancestry.com at LDS Family History Centers, that service was terminated on March 17, 2007, because TGN and the LDS Church were unable to reach a mutually agreeable licensing agreement. In 2010, Ancestry restored access to its site at Family History Centers.\n\nIn 2010, Ancestry sold its book publishing assets to Turner Publishing Company.\n\nAncestry.com became a publicly traded company on NASDAQ (symbol: ACOM) on November 5, 2009, with an initial public offering of 7.4 million shares priced at $13.50 per share, underwritten by Morgan Stanley, Bank of America, Merrill Lynch, Jefferies & Company, Piper Jaffray, and BMO Capital Markets.\n\nIn 2010, Ancestry.com expanded its domestic operations with the opening of an office in San Francisco, California, staffed with brand new engineering, product, and marketing teams geared toward developing some of Ancestry's cutting-edge technology and services. In 2011, Ancestry launched an Android and iOS app.\n\nIn December 2011, Ancestry.com moved the Social Security Death Index search behind a paywall and stopped displaying the Social Security information of people who had died within the past 10 years, because of identity theft concerns.\n\nIn March 2012, Ancestry.com acquired the collection of DNA assets from GeneTree.\n\nIn September 2012, Ancestry.com expanded its international operations with the opening of its European headquarters in Dublin, Ireland. The Dublin office includes a new call centre for international customers, as well as product, marketing, and engineering teams.\n\nIn October 2012, Ancestry.com agreed to be acquired by a private equity group consisting of Permira Advisers LLP, members of Ancestry.com's management team, including CEO Tim Sullivan and CFO Howard Hochhauser, and Spectrum Equity, for $32 per share or around $1.6 billion. At the same time, Ancestry.com purchased a photo digitization and sharing service called 1000Memories.\n\nOn July 16, 2015, Ancestry launched AncestryHealth, and announced the appointment of Cathy A. Petti as its Chief Health Officer.\n\nIn April 2016 GIC Private Limited (a sovereign wealth fund owned by the Government of Singapore) and Silver Lake (a private equity fund manager) bought equity stakes in Ancestry.com. The estimated market value of Ancestry.com in 2017 was more than $3 billion.\n\nIn November 2018 Ancestry claimed to have over 10 billion digitised records and over three million paying customers.\n\nAncestryDNA is a subsidiary of Ancestry LLC. AncestryDNA offers a direct-to-consumer genealogical DNA test. Consumers provide a sample of their DNA to the company for analysis. AncestryDNA then uses DNA sequences to infer family relationships with other Ancestry DNA users and to provide what it calls an \"ethnicity estimate\". Previously, Ancestry.com also offered paternal Y-chromosome DNA and maternal mitochondrial DNA tests, but those were discontinued in June 2014. The company describes the technical process of testing in a scientific white paper. In November 2018 the company claimed that, to date they had sold more than 14 million DNA kits to customers.\n\nAncestry DNA is commonly used for donor conceived persons to find their biological siblings and in some cases their sperm or egg donor. \n\nThe testing itself is performed by Quest Diagnostics.\n\nOn September 30, 2013, Ancestry.com announced its acquisition of Find a Grave. Site editor Jim Tipton said of the purchase that Ancestry.com had \"been linking and driving traffic to the site for several years. Burial information is a wonderful source for people researching their family history\". Ancestry.com launched a mobile app in March 2014.\n\nRootsWeb, acquired by Ancestry in June 2000, is a free genealogy community that uses online forums, mailing lists, and other resources to help people research their family history. Users can upload GEDCOM files of their information for others to search at the WorldConnect portion of the site. Trees uploaded to WorldConnect are searchable at both the RootsWeb and Ancestry websites.\n\nOn December 20, 2017, a file containing 300,000 RootsWeb user names, passwords, and email addresses was exposed to the internet. The 300,000 records were from RootsWeb surname list service with 55,000 of those records were also Ancestry.com login credentials.\n\nIn 2012, Ancestry spun off its digitized online newspaper components into a standalone service Newspapers.com with newspaper.com only pricing as well as a bundled Ancestry.com pricing.\n\nBefore the Newspapers.com launch, Ancestry.com acquired the following newspaper-oriented components, including scanning and digital technologies and posting on the web:\n\nThe website's principal competitor is newspaperarchive.com which claims it has online newspapers dating from 1607 worldwide and its index in June 2018 includes 9,829 newspapers. Both websites having similar models for increasing their databases: striking deals with libraries, publishers and historical organizations to scan the publications for free to include in their database. Participants note that the process of free scanning is easier, cheaper and quicker to get their publications online rather than working through the government operated National Digital Newspaper Program.\n\n\nIn 2015, Ancestry partnered with Calico, a subsidiary of Google, to focus on longevity research and therapeutics, in an effort to investigate human heredity of lifespan. Together, they evaluated anonymized data from millions of public family trees and a growing database of over one million genetic samples. AncestryDNA and Calico worked together to analyze and investigate the role of genetics and its influences in families experiencing unusual longevity using Ancestry's proprietary databases, tools and algorithms. Calico planned to focus its efforts on developing and commercializing any potential therapeutics that emerge from the analysis.\n\n"}
{"id": "35715592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35715592", "title": "Anton Polenec", "text": "Anton Polenec\n\nAnton Polenec (7 October 1910 – 30 October 2000) was a Slovene zoologist and specialist arachnologist.\n\nPolenec was born in Puštal near Škofja Loka in 1910. He studied at the University of Ljubljana and later taught zoology and was head of the Natural History Museum of Slovenia from 1955 to 1980. He studied and described over 500 species of spiders including a new genus \"Centrophantes\". The spider genus \"Polenecia\" is named after Polenec.\n\nApart from scientific contributions he also wrote numerous popular science books for young readers and won the Levstik Award twice, in 1950 for his book \"Iz življenja žuželk\" (The Lives of Insects) and in 1952 for \"Iz življenja pajkov\" (The Life of Spiders).\n"}
{"id": "5044718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5044718", "title": "Belt transect", "text": "Belt transect\n\nBelt transects are used in biology to estimate the distribution of organisms in relation to a certain area, such as the seashore or a meadow. It records all the species found between two lines and how far they are for a certain place or area and how many of them there are. An interrupted belt transect records all the species found in quadrats (square frames) placed at certain intervals along a line.\n\nThe belt transect method is similar to the line transect method but gives information on abundance as well as presence, or absence of species. It may be considered as a widening of the line transect to form a continuous belt, or series of quadrats.\n\nIn this method, the transect line is laid out across the area to be surveyed and a quadrat is placed on the first marked point on the line. These marked points should be a set amount of space apart. The plants and/or animals inside the quadrat are then identified and their abundance estimated. Animals can be counted within the quadrat, or collected, while it is usual to estimate the percentage cover of plant species. Cover is the area of the quadrat occupied by the above-ground parts of a species when viewed from above. The canopies of the plants inside the quadrat will often overlap each other, so the total percentage cover of plants in a single quadrat will frequently add up to more than 100%. \n\nQuadrats are sampled all the way down the transect line, at each marked point on the line, or at some other predetermined interval (or even randomly) if time is short. It is important that the same person should do the estimations of cover in each quadrat, because the estimation is likely to vary from person to person. If different people estimate percentage cover in different quadrats, then an element of personal variation is introduced which will lead to less accurate results. Sampling should always be as least destructive as possible and trampling the surrounding area should be avoided when carrying out a survey. Not only is there a risk of damaging the area, but there is also a risk of reducing the population or percentage cover of the species being surveyed.\n"}
{"id": "29044095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29044095", "title": "Black-oil equations", "text": "Black-oil equations\n\nThe black-oil equations are a set of partial differential equations that describe fluid flow in a petroleum reservoir, constituting the mathematical framework for a black-oil reservoir simulator.\nThe term \"black-oil\" refers to the fluid model, in which water is modeled explicitly together with two hydrocarbon components, one (pseudo) oil phase and one (pseudo-)gas phase.\n\nThis is in contrast with a compositional formulation, in which each hydrocarbon component (arbitrary number) is handled separately\n\nThe equations of an extended black-oil model are\n\nwhere\nformula_4 is a porosity of the porous medium, \nformula_5 is a water saturation,\nformula_6 are saturations of liquid (\"oil\") \nand vapor (\"gas\") phases in the reservoir,\nformula_7 are \nDarcy velocities of the liquid phase, water phase and vapor phase in the reservoir.\nThe oil and gas at the surface (standard conditions) could be produced from both liquid and vapor phases existing at high pressure and temperature of reservoir conditions. This is characterized by the following quantities: \n\nformula_8 is an oil \nformation volume factor\n(ratio of some volume of reservoir liquid\nto the volume of oil at standard conditions\nobtained from the same volume of reservoir liquid),\n\nformula_9 is a water formation volume factor \n(ratio of volume of water at reservoir conditions to volume of water at standard conditions),\n\nformula_10 is a gas formation volume factor \n(ratio of some volume of reservoir vapor\nto the volume of gas at standard conditions obtained from the same volume of reservoir vapor),\n\nformula_11 is a solution of gas in oil phase \n(ratio of volume of gas to the volume of oil at standard conditions\nobtained from some amount of liquid phase at reservoir conditions), \n\nformula_12 is a vaporized oil in gas phase\n(ratio of volume of oil to the volume of gas at standard conditions\nobtained from some amount of vapor phase at reservoir conditions). \n\n"}
{"id": "972564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=972564", "title": "British National Vegetation Classification", "text": "British National Vegetation Classification\n\nThe British National Vegetation Classification or NVC is a system of classifying natural habitat types in Great Britain according to the vegetation they contain.\n\nA large scientific meeting of ecologists, botanists, and other related professionals in the United Kingdom resulted in the publication of a compendium of five books: \"British Plant Communities\", edited by John S. Rodwell, which detail the incidence of plant species in twelve major habitat types in the British natural environment. They are the first systematic and comprehensive account of the vegetation types of the country. They cover all natural, semi-natural and major artificial habitats in Great Britain (not Northern Ireland) and represent fifteen years of research by leading plant ecologists.\n\nFrom the data collated from the books, commercial software products have been developed to help to classify vegetation identified into one of the many habitat types found in Great Britain – these include \"MATCH\", \"TABLEFIT\" and \"MAVIS\".\n\nThe following is a list of terms used in connection with the British National Vegetation Classification, together with their meanings:\n\n\n\nFor a list of the constant species, and the NVC communities in which they are present, see List of constant species in the British National Vegetation Classification.\n\n\nFor a list of these rare species, and the NVC communities in which they are present, see List of rare species in the British National Vegetation Classification.\n\nIn total there are 286 communities in the British National Vegetation Classification. They are grouped into the following major categories:\n\n\nA full list of these communities, grouped into the above categories, can be found at List of plant communities in the British National Vegetation Classification.\n"}
{"id": "18969769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18969769", "title": "CP violation", "text": "CP violation\n\nIn particle physics, CP violation is a violation of CP-symmetry (or charge conjugation parity symmetry): the combination of C-symmetry (charge conjugation symmetry) and P-symmetry (parity symmetry). CP-symmetry states that the laws of physics should be the same if a particle is interchanged with its antiparticle (C symmetry) while its spatial coordinates are inverted (\"mirror\" or P symmetry). The discovery of CP violation in 1964 in the decays of neutral kaons resulted in the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1980 for its discoverers James Cronin and Val Fitch.\n\nIt plays an important role both in the attempts of cosmology to explain the dominance of matter over antimatter in the present Universe, and in the study of weak interactions in particle physics.\n\n\"CP-symmetry\", often called just \"CP\", is the product of two symmetries: C for charge conjugation, which transforms a particle into its antiparticle, and P for parity, which creates the mirror image of a physical system. The strong interaction and electromagnetic interaction seem to be invariant under the combined CP transformation operation, but this symmetry is slightly violated during certain types of weak decay. Historically, CP-symmetry was proposed to restore order after the discovery of parity violation in the 1950s.\n\nThe idea behind parity symmetry is that the equations of particle physics are invariant under mirror inversion. This leads to the prediction that the mirror image of a reaction (such as a chemical reaction or radioactive decay) occurs at the same rate as the original reaction. Parity symmetry appears to be valid for all reactions involving electromagnetism and strong interactions. Until 1956, parity conservation was believed to be one of the fundamental geometric conservation laws (along with conservation of energy and conservation of momentum). However, in 1956 a careful critical review of the existing experimental data by theoretical physicists Tsung-Dao Lee and Chen-Ning Yang revealed that while parity conservation had been verified in decays by the strong or electromagnetic interactions, it was untested in the weak interaction. They proposed several possible direct experimental tests. The first test based on beta decay of cobalt-60 nuclei was carried out in 1956 by a group led by Chien-Shiung Wu, and demonstrated conclusively that weak interactions violate the P symmetry or, as the analogy goes, some reactions did not occur as often as their mirror image.\n\nOverall, the symmetry of a quantum mechanical system can be restored if another symmetry \"S\" can be found such that the combined symmetry \"PS\" remains unbroken. This rather subtle point about the structure of Hilbert space was realized shortly after the discovery of \"P\" violation, and it was proposed that charge conjugation was the desired symmetry to restore order.\n\nSimply speaking, charge conjugation is a symmetry between particles and antiparticles, and so CP-symmetry was proposed in 1957 by Lev Landau as the true symmetry between matter and antimatter.\nIn other words, a process in which all particles are exchanged with their antiparticles was assumed to be equivalent to the mirror image of the original process.\n\n\"Direct\" CP violation is allowed in the Standard Model if a complex phase appears in the CKM matrix describing quark mixing, or the PMNS matrix describing neutrino mixing. A necessary condition for the appearance of the complex phase is the presence of at least three generations of quarks. If fewer generations are present, the complex phase parameter can be absorbed into redefinitions of the quark fields. A popular rephasing invariant whose vanishing signals absence of CP violation and occurs in most CP violating amplitudes is the \"Jarlskog invariant\", formula_1\n\nThe reason why such a complex phase causes CP violation is not immediately obvious, but can be seen as follows. Consider any given particles (or sets of particles) formula_2 and formula_3, and their antiparticles formula_4 and formula_5. Now consider the processes formula_6 and the corresponding antiparticle process formula_7, and denote their amplitudes formula_8 and formula_9 respectively. Before CP violation, these terms must be the \"same\" complex number. We can separate the magnitude and phase by writing formula_10. If a phase term is introduced from (e.g.) the CKM matrix, denote it formula_11. Note that formula_9 contains the conjugate matrix to formula_8, so it picks up a phase term formula_14.\n\nNow the formula becomes:\nPhysically measurable reaction rates are proportional to formula_17, thus so far nothing is different. However, consider that there are \"two different routes\": formula_18 and formula_19 or equivalently, two unrelated intermediate states: formula_20 and formula_21. Now we have:\nSome further calculation gives:\n\nThus, we see that a complex phase gives rise to processes that proceed at different rates for particles and antiparticles, and CP is violated.\n\nFrom the theoretical end, the CKM matrix is defined as V =U．U, where U and U are unitary transformation matrices which diagonalize the fermion mass matrices M and M, respectively.\n\nThus, there are two necessary conditions for getting a complex CKM matrix:\n\nIn 1964, James Cronin, Val Fitch and coworkers provided clear evidence from kaon decay that CP-symmetry could be broken. This work won them the 1980 Nobel Prize. This discovery showed that weak interactions violate not only the charge-conjugation symmetry C between particles and antiparticles and the P or parity, but also their combination. The discovery shocked particle physics and opened the door to questions still at the core of particle physics and of cosmology today. The lack of an exact CP-symmetry, but also the fact that it is so nearly a symmetry, created a great puzzle.\n\nOnly a weaker version of the symmetry could be preserved by physical phenomena, which was CPT symmetry. Besides C and P, there is a third operation, time reversal T, which corresponds to reversal of motion. Invariance under time reversal implies that whenever a motion is allowed by the laws of physics, the reversed motion is also an allowed one and occurs at the same rate forwards and backwards. The combination of CPT is thought to constitute an exact symmetry of all types of fundamental interactions. Because of the CPT symmetry, a violation of the CP-symmetry is equivalent to a violation of the T symmetry. CP violation implied nonconservation of T, provided that the long-held CPT theorem was valid. In this theorem, regarded as one of the basic principles of quantum field theory, charge conjugation, parity, and time reversal are applied together.\n\nThe kind of CP violation discovered in 1964 was linked to the fact that neutral kaons can transform into their antiparticles (in which each quark is replaced with the other's antiquark) and vice versa, but such transformation does not occur with exactly the same probability in both directions; this is called \"indirect\" CP violation.\nDespite many searches, no other manifestation of CP violation was discovered until the 1990s, when the NA31 experiment at CERN suggested evidence for CP violation in the decay process of the very same neutral kaons (\"direct\" CP violation). The observation was somewhat controversial, and final proof for it came in 1999 from the KTeV experiment at Fermilab and the NA48 experiment at CERN.\n\nIn 2001, a new generation of experiments, including the BaBar Experiment at the Stanford Linear Accelerator Center (SLAC) and the Belle Experiment at the High Energy Accelerator Research Organisation (KEK) in Japan, observed direct CP violation in a different system, namely in decays of the B mesons. A large number of CP violation processes in B meson decays have now been discovered. Before these \"B-factory\" experiments, there was a logical possibility that all CP violation was confined to kaon physics. However, this raised the question of why CP violation did \"not\" extend to the strong force, and furthermore, why this was not predicted by the unextended Standard Model, despite the model's accuracy for \"normal\" phenomena.\n\nIn 2011, a hint of CP violation in decays of neutral D mesons was reported by the LHCb experiment at CERN using 0.6 fb of Run 1 data. However, the same measurement using the full 3.0 fb Run 1 sample was consistent with CP symmetry.\n\nIn 2013 LHCb announced discovery of CP violation in strange B meson decays.\n\nThere is no experimentally known violation of the CP-symmetry in quantum chromodynamics. As there is no known reason for it to be conserved in QCD specifically, this is a \"fine tuning\" problem known as the strong CP problem.\n\nQCD does not violate the CP-symmetry as easily as the electroweak theory; unlike the electroweak theory in which the gauge fields couple to chiral currents constructed from the fermionic fields, the gluons couple to vector currents. Experiments do not indicate any CP violation in the QCD sector. For example, a generic CP violation in the strongly interacting sector would create the electric dipole moment of the neutron which would be comparable to 10 e·m while the experimental upper bound is roughly one trillionth that size.\n\nThis is a problem because at the end, there are natural terms in the QCD Lagrangian that are able to break the CP-symmetry.\n\nFor a nonzero choice of the θ angle and the chiral phase of the quark mass θ′ one expects the CP-symmetry to be violated. One usually assumes that the chiral quark mass phase can be converted to a contribution to the total effective formula_26 angle, but it remains to be explained why this angle is extremely small instead of being of order one; the particular value of the θ angle that must be very close to zero (in this case) is an example of a fine-tuning problem in physics, and is typically solved by physics beyond the Standard Model.\n\nThere are several proposed solutions to solve the strong CP problem. The most well-known is Peccei–Quinn theory, involving new scalar particles called axions. A newer, more radical approach not requiring the axion is a theory involving two time dimensions first proposed in 1998 by Bars, Deliduman, and Andreev.\n\nThe universe is made chiefly of matter, rather than consisting of equal parts of matter and antimatter as might be expected. It can be demonstrated that, to create an imbalance in matter and antimatter from an initial condition of balance, the Sakharov conditions must be satisfied, one of which is the existence of CP violation during the extreme conditions of the first seconds after the Big Bang. Explanations which do not involve CP violation are less plausible, since they rely on the assumption that the matter–antimatter imbalance was present at the beginning, or on other admittedly exotic assumptions.\n\nThe Big Bang should have produced equal amounts of matter and antimatter if CP-symmetry was preserved; as such, there should have been total cancellation of both—protons should have cancelled with antiprotons, electrons with positrons, neutrons with antineutrons, and so on. This would have resulted in a sea of radiation in the universe with no matter. Since this is not the case, after the Big Bang, physical laws must have acted differently for matter and antimatter, i.e. violating CP-symmetry.\n\nThe Standard Model contains at least three sources of CP violation. The first of these, involving the Cabibbo–Kobayashi–Maskawa matrix in the quark sector, has been observed experimentally and can only account for a small portion of the CP violation required to explain the matter-antimatter asymmetry. The strong interaction should also violate CP, in principle, but the failure to observe the electric dipole moment of the neutron in experiments suggests that any CP violation in the strong sector is also too small to account for the necessary CP violation in the early universe. The third source of CP violation is the Pontecorvo–Maki–Nakagawa–Sakata matrix in the lepton sector. The current long-baseline neutrino oscillation experiments, T2K and NOνA, may be able to find evidence of CP violation over a small fraction of possible values of the CP violating Dirac phase while the proposed next-generation experiments, Hyper-Kamiokande and DUNE, will be sensitive enough to definitively observe CP violation over a relatively large fraction of possible values of the Dirac phase. Further into the future, a neutrino factory could be sensitive to nearly all possible values of the CP violating Dirac phase. If neutrinos are Majorana fermions, the PMNS matrix could have two additional CP violating Majorana phases, leading to a fourth source of CP violation within the Standard Model. The experimental evidence for Majorana neutrinos would be the observation of neutrinoless double-beta decay. The best limits come from the GERDA experiment. CP violation in the lepton sector generates a matter-antimatter asymmetry through a process called leptogenesis. This could become the preferred explanation in the Standard Model for the matter-antimatter asymmetry of the universe once CP violation is experimentally confirmed in the lepton sector.\n\nIf CP violation in the lepton sector is experimentally determined to be too small to account for matter-antimatter asymmetry, some new physics beyond the Standard Model would be required to explain additional sources of CP violation. Adding new particles and/or interactions to the Standard Model generally introduces new sources of CP violation since CP is not a symmetry of nature.\n\nSakharov proposed a way to restore CP-symmetry using T-symmetry, extending spacetime \"before\" the Big Bang. He described complete \"CPT reflections\" of events on each side of what he called the \"initial singularity\". Because of this, phenomena with an opposite arrow of time at \"t\" < 0 would undergo an opposite CP violation, so the CP-symmetry would be preserved as a whole. The anomalous excess of matter over antimatter after the Big Bang in the orthochronous (or positive) sector, becomes an excess of antimatter before the Big Bang (antichronous or negative sector) as both charge conjugation, parity and arrow of time are reversed due to CPT reflections of all phenomena occurring over the initial singularity:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13792554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13792554", "title": "Capital Jury Project", "text": "Capital Jury Project\n\nThe Capital Jury Project (CJP) is a consortium of university-based research studies on the decision-making of jurors in death penalty cases in the United States. It was founded in 1991 and is supported by the National Science Foundation (NSF). The goal of the CJP is to determine whether jurors' sentencing decisions conform to the constitution and do not reflect the arbitrary decisions the United States Supreme Court found when it ruled the death penalty unconstitutional in \"Furman v. Georgia\". That 1972 Supreme Court decision eliminated the death penalty which was not reinstated until \"Gregg v. Georgia\" in 1976. \n\nIn 1987, the Supreme Court ruled in \"McCleskey v. Kemp\" that statistics showed that blacks in Georgia were more likely to be sentenced to death than whites, but concluded that the evidence of specific racial discrimination in McCleskey's case was lacking so McCleskey's death sentence was not unconstitutional. However, this decision raised the issue of whether the problem of arbitrary or racist death penalties has been resolved.\n\nThe CJP is a continuing research program. Its findings are based on a standard protocol of in-depth interviews with past jurors in capital punishment trials. The interviews seek to identify the jury decision-making throughout a trial and identify the ways in which jurors make their sentencing decisions. The CJP has recently been expanded to examine the role played by jurors’ race in making death penalty decisions.\n\nThis work represents a significant advance over prior studies of jury behavior, most of which have been conducted on samples of students who simulated jury behavior in mock trials.\nData collection for CJP is being gathered in the states that have the most variation in death penalty sentencing. Alabama, California, Florida, Georgia, Indiana, Kentucky, Louisiana, Missouri, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas and Virginia were chosen for in-depth juror interviews. As of October, 2007, 1198 jurors from 353 capital trials in 14 states have been interviewed.\n\nWeighing factors in a death penalty case and making a decision \"beyond a reasonable doubt\" is a complex task with many complicating factors and weighted with moral responsibility. Trials are conducted using legal terms that the jury may not understand. Jurors may be uncertain about their alternatives in making decisions.\n\nThe first important paper on the findings of the CJP so far documents that jurors do not rely on expert testimony to evaluate the defendant's dangerousness but are influenced by expert testimony regarding the defendant's mental illness and mental instability. Jurors accept that mental health professionals have expertise on issues of mental illness and tend to accept expert testimony on the subject. However, expert testimony on the potential dangerousness of the defendant was not related to jury opinion. On these issue it appears that jurors rely on common sense since there is no evidence that experts of any kind can predict dangerousness and jurors disregard expert testimony accordingly.\n\nThe findings also show that race is a significant factor. If the defendant is white, the jury is more likely to evaluate him as mentally unstable than if he were black. Also, the jury was more likely to see the defendant as dangerous if the victim were white. Some admit overtly to racial prejudice and some voice seemingly unwitting racially prejudiced beliefs. As noted below, the race of the victim plays a substantial role in whether the jury finds mitigating factors that would allow a lesser sentence than the death penalty.\n\nOne review of the CJP data showed that jurors who were asked a hypothetical question regarding how much certain mitigating factors would influence their sentencing decisions were true, 56.2 percent of the jurors would consider a lesser sentence than death if a history of mental illness was presented as a mitigating factor and 73.6 percent would do so if evidence of mental retardation were presented. However, another review of the data showed the race of the victim had a substantial effect on jury failure to find mitigating factors. If the victim were white there was more failure to find mitigating factors.\n\nThere is evidence from the study that jurors are confused or misled by the judge's instructions to the jury. Jurors often appear to make decisions from personal experience and personal moral guidelines instead. Findings from jurors interviewed show that 50% of the jurors admit to making death penalty decisions before the death penalty phase of the trial has begun, and 45% did not understand that they could consider any mitigating evidence during the penalty phase, not just the factors listed in the judge's instructions. \n\nIn fact, one researcher says that the pattern emerging from the CJP data is that jurors have serious misconceptions about the death penalty process, leading to confusion that produces a bias in favor of the death penalty, and concludes that the CJP research indicates that the jury decision making process is so flawed that it violated constitutional principles.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7601985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7601985", "title": "Chem-E-Car", "text": "Chem-E-Car\n\nThe Chem-E-Car Competition is an annual college competition for students majoring in Chemical Engineering. \n\nAccording to the competition's official rules, students must design small-scale automobiles that operate by chemical means, along with a poster describing their research. During the competition, they must drive their car a fixed distance (judged on how close the car is to the finish line) down a wedge-shaped course in order to demonstrate its capabilities. In addition to driving a specified distance, they must also hold a payload of 0-500 mL of water. The exact distance (15-30 meters) and payload is revealed to the participants one hour before the competition. The size of designed cars cannot exceed certain specifications and cars must operate using \"green\" methods, which do not release any pollution or waste in the form of a visible liquid or gas, such as exhaust. The dimensions of the car are to be within 20x30x40 cm. This competition is hosted in the United States by the AIChE (American Institute of Chemical Engineers), and winners of the competitions receive various awards, depending on how they placed.\n\n\n\nThe competition has various rules:\n\nEach car is required to have a poster board explaining how the car runs (power source), some of its specific features, and how it's environmentally friendly. Judges score these posters on four different things: the description of the chemical reaction and power source (20%), the creativity of the design and its unique features (20%), environment and safety features (40%), and the overall quality of the poster, along with the team's presentation (20%). Only posters judged with a score of 70% or above may move on to the performance competition. \n\nSome ideas for chemical reactions have been using pressurized air (creating oxygen through a chemical reaction and allowing it to build pressure) or using electricity created by the dissolving of metals in certain acids (basic battery). One pedantic idea by Cooper Union was to use a fuel cell (a cell that converts fuel to electricity via an electrochemical reaction) to power their car. \n\nWinners in this competition aren't determined by whether their car is faster or more powerful, but how accurate their chemical reaction to stop their vehicle is. This is quite difficult, especially when the load the car must carry and distance it has to travel are unknown until the day of the competition. So teams must find a method that is flexible enough to fit a range of payloads and distances, and reliable enough so it doesn't fail with real world variables (temperature, humidity, track roughness, changes in elevation, etc.). Winners in the past have had a variety of ways of dealing with this problem, such as an iodine clock reaction. This reaction works by using two clear solutions (many variations) that change color after a time delay (the exact time can be found experimentally). When applied to the car, the team used a simple image sensor that could tell when the solutions changed color, at which point the cars power would shut off by cutting the circuit. While the process itself is somewhat simple, accounting for the unknown variables like the payload and distance is quite difficult.\n\n"}
{"id": "26014448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26014448", "title": "Competition and credit control (UK)", "text": "Competition and credit control (UK)\n\nCompetition and credit control (CCC) was a monetary policy operated by the Bank of England from September 1971 until the autumn of 1973. Under this policy the bank sought to control money supply indirectly through open market operations, instead of through the direct lending ceilings imposed on individual banks used formerly. Reserve Asset Ratios were imposed on all financial institutions where formerly cash and liquidity rations had applied to major clearing banks only. In practice, sterling money supply increased rapidly following introduction. At the end of 1973, the Supplementary Special Deposit Scheme re-established direct controls on lending.\n"}
{"id": "3086406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3086406", "title": "Contagion heuristic", "text": "Contagion heuristic\n\nThe contagion heuristic is a psychological heuristic leading people to avoid contact with people or objects viewed as \"contaminated\" by previous contact with someone or something viewed as bad—or, less often, to seek contact with objects that have been in contact with people or things considered good. For example, we tend to view food that has touched the ground as contaminated by the ground, and therefore unfit to eat, or we view a person who has touched a diseased person as likely to carry the disease (regardless of the actual contagiousness of the disease).\n\nThe contagion heuristic includes \"magical thinking\", such as viewing a sweater worn by Adolf Hitler as bearing his negative essence and capable of transmitting it to another wearer. The perception of essence-transfer extends to rituals to purify items viewed as spiritually contaminated, such as having Mother Teresa wear Hitler's sweater to counteract his essence.\n\nInattention. Inattention is like the Freudian defense mechanism of denial, except that it may be much more passive. We simply do not think much about the interpersonal history of most objects we deal with. When we receive change in the store, we do not think of the long string of humans, no doubt some unsavory, who handled it previously; likewise for the interpersonal history of a public bathroom doorknob or a seat on a train. The domains of inattention vary across individuals and across cultures. For example, the contamination produced by the bottoms of shoes bringing outside filth into the home is salient for most Japanese, but not attended to by most Americans. \n\nRitual rules. Typically in religious systems, problems of contagion may be handled by establishing rituals to decontaminate and setting limits on the range of contamination. Such rules seem most prevalent in Judaism and Hinduism. \nA particularly clear example of a ritual boundary is the 1/60th rule of Kashrut, relating to contamination of kosher foods by non-kosher entities (Nemeroff & Rozin, 1992). According to this rule, if contamination occurs by accident and the contaminant is less than 1/60th of the total volume of the contaminated entity, the food remains kosher.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1391202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1391202", "title": "Control theory (sociology)", "text": "Control theory (sociology)\n\nControl theory in sociology is the idea that two control systems—inner controls and outer controls—work against our tendencies to deviate. Control theory can either be classified as centralized or decentralized or neither. Decentralized control is considered market control. Centralized control is considered bureaucratic control. Some types of control such as clan control are considered to be a mixture of both decentralized and centralized control.\n\nDecentralized control or market control is typically maintained through factors such as price, competition, or market share. Centralized control such as bureaucratic control is typically maintained through administrative or hierarchical techniques such as creating standards or policies. An example of mixed control is clan control which has characteristics of both centralized and decentralized control. Mixed control or clan control is typically maintained by keeping a set of values and beliefs or norms and traditions.\n\nContainment theory, as developed by Walter Reckless in 1973, states that behavior is caused not by outside stimuli, but by what a person wants most at any given time. According to the control theory, weaker containing social systems result in more deviant behavior.\n\nControl theory stresses how weak bonds between the individuals and society free people to deviate or go against the norms, or the people who have weak ties would engage in crimes so they could benefit, or gain something that is to their own interest. This is where strong bonds make deviance more costly. Deviant acts appear attractive to individuals but social bonds stop most people from committing the acts. Deviance is a result from extensive exposure to certain social situations where individuals develop behaviors that attract them to avoid conforming to social norms. Social bonds are used in control theory to help individuals from going after these attractive deviations.\n\nAccording to Travis Hirschi, humans are selfish beings, who make decisions based on which choice will give the greatest benefit. A good example of control theory would be that people go to work. Most people do not want to go to work, but they do, because they get paid, to obtain food, water, shelter, and clothing.\n\nHirschi (1969) identifies four elements of social bonds: attachment, commitment, involvement, and belief.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49602444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49602444", "title": "DU spectrophotometer", "text": "DU spectrophotometer\n\nThe DU spectrophotometer or Beckman DU, introduced in 1941, was the first commercially viable scientific instrument for measuring the amount of ultraviolet light absorbed by a substance. This model of spectrophotometer enabled scientists to easily examine and identify a given substance based on its absorption spectrum, the pattern of light absorbed at different wavelengths. Arnold O. Beckman's National Technical Laboratories (later Beckman Instruments) developed three in-house prototype models (A, B, C) and one limited distribution model (D) before moving to full commercial production with the DU. Approximately 30,000 DU spectrophotometers were manufactured and sold between 1941 and 1976.\n\nSometimes referred to as a UV–Vis spectrophotometer because it measured both the ultraviolet (UV) and visible spectra, the DU spectrophotometer is credited as being a truly revolutionary technology. It yielded more accurate results than previous methods for determining the chemical composition of a complex substance, and substantially reduced the time needed for an accurate analysis from weeks or hours to minutes. The Beckman DU was essential to several critical secret research projects during World War II, including the development of penicillin and synthetic rubber.\n\nBefore the development of the DU spectrophotometer, analysis of a test sample to determine its components was a long, costly, and often inaccurate process. A classical wet laboratory contained a wide variety of complicated apparatus. Test samples were run through a series of awkward and time-consuming qualitative processes to separate out and identify their components. Determining quantitative concentrations of those components in the sample involved further steps. Processes could involve techniques for chemical reactions, precipitations, filtrations and dissolutions. Determination of the concentrations of known impurities in a known inorganic substance such as molten iron could be done in under thirty minutes. The determination of complex organic structures such as chlorophyll using wet and dry methods could take decades. \n\nSpectroscopic methods for observing the absorption of electromagnetic radiation in the visible spectrum were known as early as the 1860s.\nScientists had observed that light traveling through a medium would be absorbed at different wavelengths, depending on the matter-composition of the medium involved. A white light source would emit light at multiple wavelengths over a range of frequencies. A prism could be used to separate a light source into specific wavelengths. Shining the light through a sample of a material would cause some wavelengths of light to be absorbed, while others would be unaffected and continue to be transmitted. Wavelengths in the resulting absorption spectrum would differ depending upon the atomic and molecular composition if the material involved.\n\nSpectroscopic methods were predominantly used by physicists and astrophysicists. Spectroscopic techniques were rarely taught in chemistry classes and were unfamiliar to most practicing chemists. Beginning around 1904, Frank Twyman of the London instrument making firm Adam Hilger, Ltd. tried to develop spectroscopic instruments for chemists, but his customer base was consistently made up of physicists rather than chemists.\n\nBy the 1940s, both academic and industrial chemists were becoming increasingly interested in problems involving the composition and detection of biological molecules. Biological molecules, including proteins and nucleic acids, absorb light energy in both the ultraviolet and visible range. The spectrum of visible light was not broad enough to enable scientists to examine substances such as vitamin A. Accurate characterization of complex samples, particularly of biological materials, would require the accurate reading of absorption frequencies in the ultraviolet and infrared (IR) sections of the spectrum in addition to visible light. Existing instruments such as the Cenco \"Spectrophotelometer\" and the Coleman Model DM Spectrophotometer could not be effectively used to examine wavelengths in the ultraviolet range.\n\nThe array of equipment needed to measure light energy reaching beyond the visible spectrum towards the ultraviolet could cost a laboratory as much as $3,000, a huge amount in 1940. Repeated readings of a sample were taken to produce photographic plates showing the absorption spectrum of a material at different wavelengths. An experienced human could compare these to the known images to identify a match. Then information from the plates had to be combined to create a graph showing the spectrum as a whole. Ultimately, the accuracy of such approaches was dependent on accurate, consistent development of the photographic plates, and on human visual acuity and practice in reading the wavelengths.\n\nThe DU was developed at National Technical Laboratories (later Beckman Instruments) under the direction of Arnold Orville Beckman, an American chemist and inventor. Beginning in 1940, National Technical Laboratories developed three in-house prototype models (A, B, C) and one limited distribution model (D) before moving to full commercial production with the DU in 1941. Beckman's research team was led by Howard Cary, who went on to co-found Applied Physics Corporation (later Cary Instruments) which became one of Beckman Instruments' strongest competitors. Other scientists included Roland Hawes and Kenyon George.\n\nColeman Instruments had recently coupled a pH meter with an optical phototube unit to examine the visual spectrum (the Coleman Model DM). Beckman had already developed a successful pH meter for measuring acidity of solutions, his company's breakthrough product. Seeing the potential to build upon their existing expertise, Beckman made it a goal to create an easy-to-use integrated instrument which would both register and report specific wavelengths extending into the ultraviolet range. Rather than depending on development of photographic plates, or a human observer's visual ability to detect wavelengths in the absorption spectrum, phototubes would be used to register and report the specific wavelengths that were detected. This had the potential to increase the instrument's accuracy and reliability as well as its speed and ease of use.\n\nThe first prototype Beckman spectrophotometer, the Model A, was created at National Technologies Laboratories in 1940. It used a tungsten light source with a glass Fery prism as a monochromator. Tungsten was used for incandescent light filaments because it was strong, withstood heat, and emitted a steady light. Types of light sources differed in the range of wavelengths of light that they emitted. Tungsten lamps were useful in the visible light range but gave poor coverage in the ultraviolet range. However, they had the advantage of being readily available because they were used as automobile headlamps. An external amplifier from the Beckman pH meter and a vacuum tube photocell were used to detect wavelengths.\n\nIt was quickly realized that a glass dispersive prism was not suitable for use in the ultraviolet spectrum. Glass absorbed electromagnetic radiation below 400 millimicrons rather than dispersing it. In the Model B, a quartz prism was substituted for the earlier glass.\n\nA tangent bar mechanism was used to adjust the monochromator. The mechanism was highly sensitive and required a skilled operator. Only two Model B prototypes were made. One was sold: in February 1941, to the University of California Chemistry department in Los Angeles.\n\nThe Model B prototype should be distinguished from a later production model of spectrophotometer that was also referred to as the Model \"B\". The production Model \"B\" was introduced in 1949 as a less-expensive, simple-to-use alternative to the Beckman DU. It used a glass Fery prism as a chromator and operated in a narrower range, roughly from 320 millimicrons to 950 millimicrons, and 5 to 20 Å.\n\nThree Model C instruments were then built, improving the instrument's wavelength resolution. The Model B's rotary cell compartment was replaced with a linear sample chamber. The tangent bar mechanism was replaced by a scroll drive mechanism, which could be more precisely controlled to reset the quartz prism and select the desired wavelength. With this new mechanism, results could be more easily and reliably obtained, without requiring a highly skilled operator. This set the pattern for all of Beckman's later quartz prism instruments. Although only three Model B prototypes were built, all were sold, one to Caltech and the other two to companies in the food industry.\n\nThe A, B, and C prototype models all coupled an external Beckman pH meter to the optical component to obtain readouts. In developing the Model D, Beckman took the direct-coupled amplifier circuit from the pH meter and combined the optical and electronic components in a single housing, making it more economical.\n\nMoving from a prototype to production of the Model D involved challenges. \nBeckman originally approached Bausch and Lomb about making quartz prisms for the spectrophotometer. When they turned down the opportunity, National Technical Laboratories designed its own optical system, including both a control mechanism and a quartz prism. Large, high optical quality quartz suitable for creating prisms was difficult to obtain. It came from Brazil, and was in demand for wartime radio oscillators. Beckman had to obtain a wartime priority listing for the spectrophotometer to get access to suitable quartz supplies.\n\nBeckman had previously attempted to find a source of reliable hydrogen lamps, seeking better sensitivity to wavelengths in the ultraviolet range than was possible with tungsten. As described in July 1941, the Beckman spectrophotomter could use a \"hot cathode hydrogen discharge tube\" or a tungsten light source interchangeably. However, Beckman was still unsatisfied with the available hydrogen lamps. National Technical Laboratories designed its own hydrogen lamp, an anode enclosed in a thin blown-glass window. By December 1941, the in-house design was being used in production of the Model D.\n\nThe instrument's design also required a more sensitive phototube than was commercially available at that time. Beckman was able to obtain small batches of an experimental phototube from RCA for the first Model D instruments.\n\nThe Model D spectrophotometer, using the experimental RCA phototube, was shown at MIT's Summer Conference on Spectroscopy in July 1941. The paper that Cary and Beckman presented there was published in the \"Journal of the Optical Society of America\". In it, Cary and Beckman compared designs for a modified self-collimating quartz Fery prism, a mirror-collimated quartz Littrow prism, and various gratings. The Littrow prism was a half-prism, which had a mirrored face. Use of a tungsten light source with the quartz Littrow prism as a monochromator was reported to minimize light scattering within the instrument.\n\nThe Model D was the first model to enter actual production. A small number of Model D instruments were sold, beginning in July 1941, before it was superseded by the DU.\n\nWhen RCA could not meet Beckman's demand for experimental phototubes, National Technical Laboratories again had to design its own components in-house. They developed a pair of phototubes, sensitive to the red and blue areas of the spectrum, capable of amplifying the signals they received. With the incorporation of Beckman's UV-sensitive phototubes, the Model D became the Model DU UV–Vis spectrophotometer. Its designation as a \"UV–Vis\" spectrophotometer indicates its ability to measure light in both the visible and ultraviolet spectra.\n\nThe DU was the first commercially viable scientific instrument for measuring the amount of ultraviolet light absorbed by a substance. As he had done with the pH meter, Beckman had replaced an array of complicated equipment with a single, easy-to-use instrument. One of the first fully integrated instruments or \"black boxes\" used in modern chemical laboratories, it sold for $723 in 1941.\n\nIt is generally assumed that the \"DU\" in the name was a combination of \"D\" for the Model D on which it was based, and \"U\" for the ultraviolet spectrum. However, it has been suggested that \"DU\" may also reference Beckman's fraternity at the University of Illinois, Delta Upsilon, whose members were called \"DU\"s.\n\nA publication in the scholarly literature compared the optical quality of the DU to the Cary 14 Spectrophotometer, another leading UV–Vis spectrophotometer of the time.\n\n<BR>\nFrom 1941 until 1976, when it was discontinued, the Model DU spectrophotometer was built upon what was essentially the same design. It was a single beam instrument.\nThe DU spectrophotometers used a quartz prism to separate light from a lamp into its absorption spectrum and a phototube to electrically measure the light energy across the spectrum. This allowed the user to plot the light absorption spectrum of a substance to obtain a standardized \"fingerprint\" characteristic of a compound. All modern UV–Vis spectrophotometer are built on the same basic principles as the DU spectrophotometer.\n\n<BR>\n\nAlthough the default light source for the instrument was tungsten, a hydrogen or mercury lamp could be substituted depending on the optimal range of measurement for which the instrument was to be used. The tungsten lamp was suitable for transmittance of wavelengths between 320 and 1000 millimicrons; the hydrogen lamp for 220 to 320 millimicrons, and the mercury lamp for checking the calibration of the spectrophotometer.\n\n<BR>\nAs advertised in the 1941 News Edition of the American Chemical Society, the Beckman Spectrophotometer used an autocollimating quartz crystal prism for a monochromator, capable of covering a range from the ultraviolet (200 millimicrons) to the infrared (2000 millimicrons), with a nominal bandwidth of 2 millimicrons or less for most of its spectral range. The slit mechanism was continuously adjustable from .01 to 2.0 mm and claimed to have less than 1/10% of stray light over most of the spectral range. It featured an easy-to-read wavelength scale, simultaneously reporting % Transmission and Density information.\n\nThe sample holder held up to 4 cells. Cells could be moved into the light path via an external control, allowing the user to take multiple readings without opening the cell compartment. As described in the DU's manual, absorbance measurements of a sample were made in comparison to a blank, or standard, \"a solution identical in composition with the sample except that the absorbing material being measured is absent.\" The standard could be a cell filled with a solvent such as distilled water or a prepared solvent of a known concentration. At each wavelength two measurements are made: with the sample and with the standard in the light beam. This enables the ratio, transmittance, to be obtained. For quantitative measurements transmittance is converted to absorbance which is proportional to the solute concentration according to Beer's law. This makes possible the quantitative determination of the amount of a substance in solution.\n\nThe user could also switch between phototubes without removing the sample holder. A 1941 advertisement indicates that three types of phototubes were available, with maximum sensitivity to red, blue and ultraviolet light ranges.\n\nThe 1954 DU spectrophotometer differs in that it claims to be useful from 200 to 1000 millimicrons, and does not mention the ultraviolet phototube. The wavelength selector, however, still ranged from 200 to 2000 millimicrons. and an \"Ultraviolet accessory set\" was available. This shift away from using the DU for infrared measurement is understandable, since by 1954 Beckman Instruments was marketing a separate infrared spectrophotometer. Beckman developed the IR-1 infrared spectrophotometer during World War II, and redesigned it as the IR-4 between 1953 and 1956.\n\nThe Beckman spectrophotometer was the first easy-to-use single instrument containing both the optical and electronic components needed for ultraviolet-absorption spectrophotometry within a single housing. The user could insert a cell tray with standard and sample cells, dial up the desired wavelength of light, confirm that the instrument was properly set by measuring the standard, and then measure the amount of absorption of the sample, reading the frequency from a simple meter. A series of readings at different wavelengths could be taken without disturbing the sample. The DU spectrophotometer's manual scanning method was extremely fast, reducing analysis times from weeks or hours to minutes.\n\nIt was accurate in both the visible and ultraviolet ranges. \nWorking in both the ultraviolet and the visible regions of the spectrum, the model DU produced accurate absorption spectra which could be obtained with relative ease and accurately replicated. The National Bureau of Standards ran tests to certify that the DU's results were accurate and repeatable and recommended its use.\n\nOther advantages included its high resolution and the minimization of stray light in the ultraviolet region. Although it was not cheap, its initial price of $723 made it available to the average laboratory. In comparison, in 1943, the GE Hardy Spectrophotometer cost $6,400. Practical and reliable, the DU rapidly established itself as a standard for laboratory equipment.\n\nCredited with having \"brought about a breakthrough in optical spectroscopy\", the Beckman DU has been identified as \"an indispensable tool for chemistry\" and \"the Model T of laboratory instruments\". Approximately 30,000 DU spectrophotometers were manufactured and sold between 1941 and 1976.\n\nThe DU enabled researchers to perform easier analysis of substances by quickly taking measurements at more than one wavelength to produce an absorption spectrum describing the complete substance. For example, the standard method of analysis of the vitamin A content of shark liver oil, before the introduction of the DU spectrophotometer, involved feeding the oil to rats for 21 days, then cutting off the rats' tails and examining their bone structure. With the DU's UV technology, vitamin A content of shark liver oil could be determined directly in a matter of minutes.\n\nThe Scripps Research Institute and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology credit the DU with improving both accuracy and speed of chemical analysis. MIT states: \"This device forever simplified and streamlined chemical analysis, by allowing researchers to perform a 99.9% accurate quantitative measurement of a substance within minutes, as opposed to the weeks required previously for results of only 25% accuracy.\"\n\nOrganic chemist and philosopher of science Theodore L. Brown states that it \"revolutionized the measurement of light signals from samples\". Nobel laureate Bruce Merrifield is quoted as calling the DU spectrophotometer \"probably the most important instrument ever developed towards the advancement of bioscience.\" Historian of science Peter J. T. Morris identifies the introduction of the DU and other scientific instruments in the 1940s as the beginning of a Kuhnian revolution. \n\nFor the Beckman company, the DU was one of three foundational inventions – the pH meter, the DU spectrophotometer, and the helipot potentiometer – that established the company on a secure financial basis and enabled it to expand.\n\nDevelopment of the spectrophotometer had direct relevance to World War II and the American war effort. The role of vitamins in health was of significant concern, as scientists wanted to identify Vitamin A-rich foods to keep soldiers healthy. Previous methods of assessing Vitamin A levels involved feeding rats a food for several weeks and then performing a biopsy to estimate ingested Vitamin A levels. In contrast, examining a food sample with a DU spectrophotometer yielded better results in a matter of minutes. The DU spectrophotometer could be used to study both vitamin A and its precursor carotenoids, and rapidly became the preferred method of spectrophotometric analysis.\n\nThe DU spectrophotometer was also an important tool for scientists studying and producing the new wonder drug penicillin.\nThe development of penicillin was a secret national mission, involving 17 drug companies, with the goal of providing penicillin to all U.S. Forces engaged in World War II. It was known that penicillin was more effective than sulfa drugs, and that its use reduced mortality, severity of long-term wound trauma, and recovery time. However, its structure was not understood, isolation procedures used to create pure cultures were primitive, and production using known surface culture techniques was slow.\n\nAt Northern Regional Research Laboratory in Peoria, Illinois, researchers collected and examined more than 2,000 specimens of molds (as well as other microorganisms). An extensive research team included Robert Coghill, Norman Heatley, Andrew Moyer, Mary Hunt, Frank H. Stodola and Morris E. Friedkin. Friedkin recalls that an early model of the Beckman DU spectrophotometer was used by the penicillin researchers in Peoria. The Peoria lab was successful in isolating and commercially producing superior strains of the mold, which were 200 times more effective than the original forms discovered by Alexander Fleming. By the end of the war, American pharmaceutical companies were producing 650 billion units of penicillin each month. Much of the work done in this area during World War II was kept secret until after the war.\n\nThe DU spectrophotometer was also used for critical analysis of hydrocarbons. A number of hydrocarbons were of interest to the war effort. Toluene, a hydrocarbon in crude oil, was used in production of TNT for military use. Benzene and butadienes were used in the production of synthetic rubber. Rubber, used in tires for jeeps, airplanes and tanks, was in critically short supply because the United States was cut off from foreign supplies of natural rubber. The Office of Rubber Reserve organized researchers at universities and in industry to secretly work on the problem. The demand for synthetic rubber caused Beckman Instruments to develop infrared spectrophotometers. Infrared spectrophotometers were better suited than UV–Vis spectrophotometers to the analysis of C hydrocarbons, particularly for applications in petroleum refining and gasoline production.\n\nGerty Cori and her husband Carl Ferdinand Cori won the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1947 in recognition of their work on enzymes. They made several discoveries critical to understanding carbohydrate metabolism, including the isolation and discovery of the Cori ester, glucose 1-phosphate, and the understanding of the Cori cycle. They determined that the enzyme phosphorylase catalyzes formation of glucose 1-phosphate, which is the beginning and ending step in the conversions of glycogen into glucose and blood glucose to glycogen. Gerty Cori was also the first to show that a defect in an enzyme can be the cause of a human genetic disease. The Beckman DU spectrophotometer was used in the Cori laboratory to calculate enzyme concentrations, including phosphorylase.\n\nAnother researcher who spent six months in 1947 at the Cori laboratory, \"the most vibrant place in biochemistry\" at that time, was Arthur Kornberg. Kornberg was already familiar with the DU spectrophotometer, which he had used at Severo Ochoa's laboratory at New York University. The \"new and scarce\" Beckman DU, loaned to Ochoa by the American Philosophical Society, was highly prized and in constant use. Kornberg used it to purify aconitase, an enzyme in the citric acid cycle.\n\nKornberg and Bernard L. Horecker used the Beckman DU spectrophotometer for enzyme assays measuring NADH and NADPH. They determined their extinction coefficients, establishing a basis for quantitative measurements in reactions involving nucleotides. This work became one of the most cited papers in biochemistry. Kornberg went on to study nucleotides in DNA synthesis, isolating the first DNA polymerizing enzyme (DNA polymerase I) in 1956 and receiving the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine with Severo Ochoa in 1959.\n\nThe bases of DNA absorbed ultraviolet light near 260 nm. Inspired by the work of Oswald Avery on DNA, Erwin Chargaff used a DU spectrophotometer in the 1940s in measuring the relative concentrations of bases in DNA. Based on this research, he formulated Chargaff's rules. In the first complete quantitative analysis of DNA, he reported the near-equal correspondence of pairs of bases in DNA, with the number of guanine units equaling the number of cytosine units, and the number of adenine units equaling the number of thymine units. He further demonstrated that the relative amounts of guanine, cytosine, adenine and thymine varied between species. In 1952, Chargaff met Francis Crick and James D. Watson, discussing his findings with them. Watson and Crick built upon his ideas in their determination of the structure of DNA.\n\nUltraviolet spectroscopy has wide applicability in molecular biology, particularly the study of photosynthesis. It has been used to study a wide variety of flowering plants and ferns by researchers in departments of biology, plant physiology and agriculture science as well as molecular genetics.\n\nParticularly useful in detecting conjugated double bonds, the new technology made it possible for researchers like Ralph Holman and George O. Burr to study dietary fats, work that had significant implications for human diet. The DU spectrophotometer was also used in the study of steroids by researchers like Alejandro Zaffaroni, who helped to develop the birth control pill, the nicotine patch, and corticosteroids.\n\nThe Beckman team eventually developed additional models, as well as a number of accessories or attachments which could be used to modify the DU for different types of work. One of the first accessories was a flame attachment with a more powerful photo multiplier to enable the user to examine flames such as potassium, sodium and cesium (1947).\n\nIn the 1950s, Beckman Instruments developed the DR and the DK, both of which were double-beam ultraviolet spectrophotometers. The DK was named for Wilbur I. Kaye, who developed it by modifying the DU to expand its range into the near-infrared. He did the initial work while at Tennessee Eastman Kodak, and later was hired by Beckman Instruments. The DKs introduced an automatic recording feature. The DK-1 used a non-linear scroll, and the DK-2 used a linear scroll to automatically record the spectra.\n\nThe DR incorporated a \"robot operator\" which would reset the knobs on the DU to complete a sequence of measurements at different wavelengths, just like a human operator would to generate results for a full spectrum. It used a linear shuttle with four positions, and a superstructure to change the knobs. It had a moving chart recorder to plot results, with red, green and black dots. The price of recording spectrophotometers was substantially higher than non-recording machines.\n\nThe DK was ten times faster than the DR, but not quite as accurate. It used a photomultiplier, which had introduced a source of error. The DK's speed made it preferred to the DR. Kaye eventually developed the DKU, combining infrared and ultraviolet features in one instrument, but it was more expensive than other models.\n\nThe last DU spectrophotometer was produced on July 6, 1976. By the 1980s, computers were being incorporated into scientific instruments such as Bausch & Lomb's Spectronic 2000 UV–Vis spectrophotometer, to improve data acquisition and provide instrument control. Specialized spectrophotometers designed for specific tasks now tend to be used rather than general \"all-purpose machines\" like the DU.\n"}
{"id": "40939772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40939772", "title": "Darlington Lecture", "text": "Darlington Lecture\n\nThe Darlington Lecture is a lectureship of the John Innes Centre named after its former director, the geneticist C. D. Darlington.\n\n"}
{"id": "2285947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2285947", "title": "Deep ocean water", "text": "Deep ocean water\n\nDeep ocean water (DOW) is the name for cold, salty water found deep below the surface of Earth's oceans. Ocean water differs in temperature and salinity. Warm surface water is generally saltier than the cooler deep or polar waters; in polar regions, the upper layers of ocean water are cold and fresh. Deep ocean water makes up about 90% of the volume of the oceans. Deep ocean water has a very uniform temperature, around 0-3°C, and a salinity of about 3.5% or as oceanographers state as 35 ppt (parts per thousand).\n\nIn specialized locations such as the Natural Energy Laboratory of Hawaii NELHA ocean water is pumped to the surface from approximately 900 metres (3000 feet) deep for applications in research, commercial and pre-commercial activities. DOW is typically used to describe ocean water at sub-thermal depths sufficient to provide a measurable difference in water temperature.\n\nWhen deep ocean water is brought to the surface, it can be used for a variety of things. Its most useful property is its temperature. At the surface of the Earth, most water and air is well above 3 °C. The difference in temperature is indicative of a difference in energy. Where there is an energy gradient, skillful application of engineering can harness that energy for productive use by humans. Assuming the source of deep ocean water is environmentally friendly and replenished by natural mechanisms, it forms a more innovative basis for cleaner energy than current fossil-fuel-derived energy.\n\nThe simplest use of cold water is for air conditioning: using the cold water itself to cool air saves the energy that would be used by the compressors for traditional refrigeration. Another use could be to replace expensive desalination plants. When cold water passes through a pipe surrounded by humid air, condensation results. The condensate is pure water, suitable for humans to drink or for crop irrigation. Via a technology called Ocean thermal energy conversion, the temperature difference can be turned into electricity.\n\nDuring condensation or Ocean thermal energy conservation operations, the water does not reach ambient temperature, because a certain temperature gradient is required to make these processes viable. The water leaving those operations is therefore still colder than the surroundings, and a further benefit can be extracted by passing this water through underground pipes, thereby cooling agricultural soil. This reduces evaporation, and even causes water to condense from the atmosphere. This allows agricultural production where crops would normally not be able to grow. This technique is sometimes referred to as \"cold agriculture\" or \"cold-bed agriculture\".\n\n"}
{"id": "40421916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40421916", "title": "Deinococcus geothermalis", "text": "Deinococcus geothermalis\n\nDeinococcus geothermalis is a bacterium. It produces orange-pigmented colonies and has an optimum growth temperature of about to . It is extremely gamma radiation-resistant. Its type strain is AG-3a (= DSM 11300).\n\nA space mission called EXPOSE-R2 was launched on 24 July 2014 aboard the Russian Progress M-23M, and was attached on 18 August 2014 outside the ISS on the Russian module Zvezda. The two main experiments will test the resistance of a variety of extremophile microorganisms, including \"Deinococcus geothermalis\" to long-term exposure to outer space and to a Mars simulated environment.\n\n\"Deinococcus geothermalis\" has a genome that contains 2.47 Mbp with 2,335 protein coding genes. Additionally, it carries at least 2 plasmids.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14765778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14765778", "title": "El Sueño de Arquímedes", "text": "El Sueño de Arquímedes\n\nEl Sueño de Arquímedes was a Spanish science podcast and radio program which was broadcast by Radio Nacional de España (RNE) from September 2006 until June, 2007. The program was created by Ángel Rodríguez Lozano. A total of 35 programs are still available for download. In addition to El Sueño de Arquímedes, Ángel Rodríguez Lozano also hosted Vanguardia de la Ciencia, which was broadcast weekly without interruption from April 1995 until June 2007. The name of the program means \"the dream of Archimedes\", and alludes to Archimedes' statement that given a lever and a fixed point, he could move the world. To Ángel Rodríguez Lozano, the dream was moving the world by popularizing and sharing knowledge.\n\nBefore the startup of El Sueño de Arquímedes, Ángel Rodríguez Lozano had been hosting Vanguardia de la Ciencia for more than a decade. When RNE\nasked if he would host a second popular science program, Ángel Rodríguez Lozano realised that the scheduled timing, Sundays between 3 and 4 p.m, meant that it would be sandwiched between sports broadcasts. Therefore, he would have to capture the attention of listeners who were not looking for this type of program. The intention was therefore to make the program even more accessible than Vanguardia de la Ciencia, with shorter interviews and more music. Ángel Rodríguez Lozano stated that it had been a marvellous experience, and that the response had been tremendous.\n\nThe program included science news, interviews, and biographies of great scientists, written by Carmen Buergo. In the final, humorous section of the program, Ángel Rodríguez Lozano paid a visit to the archetypical mad scientist\nAlejandro Laguna, who supposedly lived and worked in a hidden laboratory in the basements of Radio Nacional de España, seven floors below ground level. Alejandro would demonstrate one of his latest inventions, which usually defied the laws of physics, and Ángel played the role of a rather gullible spectator. Alejandro then explained the physics of the corresponding real-world device. Finally, the demonstration of his invention usually had some highly unpleasant consequence for Ángel.\n\nIn June 2007, El Sueño de Arquímedes and Vanguardia de la Ciencia were abruptly terminated. In the correspondence section of one of the last programs of Vangurardia de la Ciencia, Ángel Rodríguez Lozano explained, in response to a letter from an outraged listener, that the decision to terminate the program was made due to a re-structuration of RNE, and that he was but one of 4,150 employees who had to leave.\nIn the previously referenced interview, he explained that everyone older than 52 years had to retire early, and that he was 54 years old at the time.\n\nThe decision to terminate the programs was widely criticized in Spanish-speaking blogs.\n\nAt the web-site of RNE, 36 programs are still available.\n\n"}
{"id": "41992604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41992604", "title": "Enterovirus C", "text": "Enterovirus C\n\nEnterovirus C is a species of enterovirus. Its best known subtype is poliovirus, the cause of poliomyelitis. There are three serotypes of poliovirus, PV1, PV2, and PV3. Other subtypes of Enterovirus C include EV-C95, EV-C96, EV-C99, EV-C102, EV-C104, EV-C105, EV-C109, EV-C116, EV-C117, and EV-C118. Several of these can cause the polio-like condition AFP (acute flaccid paralysis).\n"}
{"id": "1558020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1558020", "title": "Experix", "text": "Experix\n\nExperix is an open-source command interpreter designed for operating laboratory equipment, especially data acquisition devices, and processing, displaying and storing the data from them. It is usable now, only under Linux on the x86 architecture, but still under development, and users are welcome to participate in extending and improving it.\n\nExperix is radically different from most\ncommercial data acquisition programs, for example LabVIEW, which model a measurement and control application as a network of operational units represented graphically as boxes with connections that stand for data flow. In these systems an application is created by manipulating these symbols on the screen, and then it is used by clicking buttons and filling dialog boxes in a GUI environment.\n\nExperix, in contrast, represents the application as a series of operations generally taking place one after another. It processes a command line in a sequential way, and numbers, operators, functions and commands in the command line consume and create objects on a stack. These objects include integers and floating-point numbers in several sizes, complex and polar numbers, multi-dimensional arrays made from any of the numerical types, several kinds of strings, and pointers to functions, commands and variables (which can be numbers, arrays and strings). A function, command or operator requires certain types of objects on the stack and puts objects on the stack, and may also change values in stack objects and variables, draw graphs, order operations in device drivers, and read and write files.\n\nExperix is released under the GNU GPL.\n\nA command line can have practically arbitrary length, and is a series of tokens. For example,<br>\n<nowiki>.01 1000 ]+ \\c .sin * graph/yK function1=</nowiki><br>\nwould create an array of 1000 double-precision values representing the function j*0.01*sin(j*.01) for j from 0 to 999; draw a graph of that using black points on a yellow background; and copy that array into a variable called function1. This sample of command tokens will give an idea of the range of capabilities that experix has.\n\nExperix provides hardware operations by way of a command-line interface to device drivers. An experix driver has a 'read' entry point which functions more like an ioctl. It copies the integer array that experix has prepared, finds in it an operation code and supporting information, performs the operation and returns results to the array. The driver maintains a control page which experix maps with read-only permission, and a number of data pages which are mapped with read-write permission. The xcd function performs this memory mapping and creates command variables that represent the data pages. These variables can then be used in command strings to perform data display and analysis.\n\nA data acquisition device driver has an interrupt handler which uses data from the output pages and stores data in the input pages. At designated index values it sends the new data signal to experix. The xcd function is used to bind the signal to an experix command string. Then that command is executed whenever the new data signal comes. A device handler command might update variables, perform analysis functions, draw graphs and issue warnings. It runs atomically, which means it uses a separate stack and runs uninterrupted between two tokens in whatever user command happens to be in progress.\n\nDocumentation is extensive. The keywords.doc file describes functions and data structures in the program. Commands, functions and operators are described in \"help files\", which are accessed in experix by the \"help operators\". Help files are ordinary text files with terminal escape sequences to provide color highlights. System commands such as cat and grep will show these files with their colorization, and the editor that experix uses for the two-question-mark help operator is \"nano\" (from the GNU project) with the escape sequence extension. The source files for nano that were changed to provide this extension are available on the experix website. Experix users are encouraged to correct and improve help files as they work.\n\nCurrently, experix is only available for Linux and, due to assembly language code, only on the x86 architecture.\n\nAt present the only graphics support for experix is with svgalib. This is an open-source project available at http://www.svgalib.org. It is possible to have an experix graphics session in one virtual terminal and text or X sessions in others, and switch between them with the <alt-F#> keys. Graphics operations are done by a server process, and experix sends commands and data to this process through a fifo. It has an execution thread that uses readline (an open-source library from the GNU project) to obtain command lines and place them in the execution queue. Another thread translates the standard output (i.e. the echo\nfrom readline) into graphics server commands. Experix can also run in a text screen or X-term without using svgalib at all.\n\nThere is some assembly code and other matters to attend to before it can run on architectures other than x86.\n\nThe range of device drivers and applications available now is extremely limited.\n\nIt runs as root, which is a considerable security hazard on a networked computer. It should be possible to run experix without root privileges, but this has not yet been done.\n\n"}
{"id": "46199897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46199897", "title": "Gemini Guidance Computer", "text": "Gemini Guidance Computer\n\nThe Gemini Guidance Computer (sometimes Gemini Spacecraft On-Board Computer (OBC)) was a digital, serial computer designed for Project Gemini, America's second manned space project. The computer, which facilitated the control of mission maneuvers, was designed by the IBM Federal Systems Division.\n\nThe Gemini Guidance Computer was responsible for the following functions:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "251487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=251487", "title": "Genetic counseling", "text": "Genetic counseling\n\nGenetic counseling is the process of advising individuals and families affected by or at risk of genetic disorders to help them understand and adapt to the medical, psychological and familial implications of genetic contributions to disease. The process integrates:\n\n\nSheldon Clark Reed coined the term genetic counseling in 1947 and published the book \"Counseling in Medical Genetics\" in 1955. Most of the early genetic counseling clinics were run by non-medical scientists or by those who were not experienced clinicians. With the growth in knowledge of genetic disorders and the appearance of medical genetics as a distinct specialty in the 1960s, genetic counseling progressively became medicalized, representing one of the key components of clinical genetics. It was not, though, until later that the importance of a firm psychological basis was recognized and became an essential part of genetic counseling, the writings of Seymour Kessler making a particular contribution to this. The first master’s degree genetic counseling program in the United States was founded in 1969 at Sarah Lawrence College in Bronxville, New York. In 1979, the National Society of Genetic Counselors (NSGC) was founded.\n\nGenetic counselors work in a wide variety of patient-facing and non patient-facing settings.\n\nClinical genetic counselors may provide general care, or specialize in one or more areas. Examples include:\n\n\nOutside the clinic, genetic counselors work in areas such as laboratories, research, education, public health settings, and corporate environments. Examples of roles include:\n\n\nA genetic counselor is an expert with a Master of Science degree in genetic counseling. Programs in North America are accredited by the Accreditation Council for Genetic Counseling (ACGC). There are currently 41 accredited programs in the United States, four accredited programs in Canada, and four programs with the intent to become accredited. Students enter the field from a variety of disciplines, including biology/biological sciences and social sciences such as psychology. Graduate school coursework includes topics such as human genetics, embyrology, ethics, research, and counseling theory and techniques. Clinical training including supervised rotations in prenatal, pediatric, adult, cancer, and other subspecialty clinics, as well as non-patient facing rotations in laboratories. Research training typically culminates in a capstone or thesis project.\n\nIn the United States genetic counselors are certified by the American Board of Genetic Counseling. In Canada, genetic counselors are certified by the Canadian Association of Genetic Counsellors.\n\nGraduates from an American Board of Genetic Counseling (ABGC) accredited program who have met specific criteria are eligible to take the examination which is offered twice per year by the ABGC. Although not every company requires its counselors to possess a certification, the certification shows that the practitioner has met the standards \"necessary to provide competent genetic counseling services\".\n\nAs of October 2018, 25 states have passed genetic counselor licensure bills that require genetic counselors to meet a certain set of standards to practice. These states are California, Connecticut, Delaware, Hawaii, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Louisiana, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Nebraska, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, North Dakota, Ohio, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, South Dakota, Tennessee, Utah, Virginia, and Washington. Almost every other state in the US is in the process of obtaining genetic counseling licensure.\n\nAlthough genetic counseling has existed for over four decades, the first licenses for genetic counselors were not issued until 2002. Utah was the first state to do so. The American Society of Human Genetics (ASHG) has since encouraged more states to license genetic counselors before they are allowed to practice. ASHG argues that requiring practitioners to go through the necessary training and testing to obtain a license will ensure quality genetic services as well as allow for reimbursement for counselors’ services. Laws requiring licensure ensure that \"professionals who call themselves genetic counselors are able to properly explain complicated test results that could confuse patients and families making important health decisions\".\n\nInsurance companies usually do not reimburse for unlicensed genetic counselors’ services. Patients who may benefit from genetic counseling may not be able to afford the service due to the expensive out-of-pocket cost. In addition, licensure allows genetic counselors to be searchable in most insurance companies’ databases which gives genetic counselors increased opportunities for earning revenue and clients the opportunity to see \"the level of coverage insurers provide for their services\".\n\nThe goals of genetic counseling are to increase understanding of genetic diseases, discuss disease management options, and explain the risks and benefits of testing. Counseling sessions focus on giving vital, unbiased information and non-directive assistance in the patient's decision-making process. Seymour Kessler, in 1979, first categorized sessions in five phases: an intake phase, an initial contact phase, the encounter phase, the summary phase, and a follow-up phase. The intake and follow-up phases occur outside of the actual counseling session. The initial contact phase is when the counselor and families meet and build rapport. The encounter phase includes dialogue between the counselor and the client about the nature of screening and diagnostic tests. The summary phase provides all the options and decisions available for the next step. If patients wish to go ahead with testing, an appointment is organized and the genetic counselor acts as the person to communicate the results. Result delivery can happen both in person or via phone. Often counselors will call out results to avoid patients having to come back in as results can take weeks to be processed. If further counseling is needed in a more personal setting, or it is determined that additional family members should be tested, a secondary appointment can be made.\n\nDiagnostic testing occurs when an individual is showing signs or symptoms associated with a specific condition. Genetic testing can be used to arrive at a definitive diagnosis in order to provide better prognosis as well as medical management and/or treatment options. Testing can reveal conditions that—while debilitating without treatment—can be mild or asymptomatic with early treatment (such as phenylketonuria). Genetic tests are available for a number of genetic conditions, including but not limited to: Down syndrome, Sickle cell disease, Tay-Sachs disease, Muscular dystrophy. Establishing a genetic diagnosis alerts any other at-risk individuals in the family to consider testing, if appropriate.\n\nAny reproductive risks (e.g. a chance to have a child with the same diagnosis) can also be explored after a diagnosis. Many disorders cannot occur unless both the mother and father pass on their genes, such as cystic fibrosis; this is known as autosomal recessive inheritance. Other autosomal dominant diseases can be inherited from one parent, such as Huntington disease and DiGeorge syndrome. Yet other genetic disorders are caused by an error or mutation occurring during the cell division process (e.g. aneuploidy) and are not hereditary.\n\nScreening tests are often used prior to diagnostic testing, designed to separate people according to a fixed characteristic or property, with the intention of detecting early evidence of disease. For example, if a screening test during a pregnancy (such as maternal blood screening or ultrasound) reveals a risk of a health issue or genetic condition, patients are encouraged to receive genetic counseling to learn additional information regarding the suspected condition and about their options with discussion of management, therapy and treatments available for the conditions, including those after delivery, and those during pregnancy, such as the option to terminate the pregnancy. Patients may decline additional screening and testing, elect to proceed to diagnostic testing, or pursue further screening tests to refine the risk during the pregnancy.\n\nPresymptomatic or predictive testing occurs when an individual knows of a specific diagnosis (typically adult onset) in their family and has other affected relatives, but they themselves do not manifest any clinical findings at the time when they seek testing. The decision about whether or not to proceed with presymptomatic testing should entail a thoughtful approach and consideration of various medical, reproductive, social, insurance, and financial factors, with no “right” or “wrong” answer. Availability of treatment and medical management options for each specific diagnosis, as well as the genetics and inheritance pattern of the particular condition should be reviewed as inherited conditions can have reduced penetrance.\n\nInsurance and legal issues should also be discussed during genetic counseling. There are laws in the United States such as GINA (Genetic Information Non-discrimination Act) and ACA that provide certain protections against discrimination for individuals with genetic diagnoses.\n\nAdult or general genetics clinics serve patients who are diagnosed with genetic conditions that begin to show signs or symptoms in adulthood. Many genetic conditions have varying ages of onset, ranging from an infantile form to an adult form. Genetic counseling can facilitate the decision making process by providing the patient/family with education about the genetic condition as well as the medical management options available to individuals at risk of developing the condition. Adult-onset disorders may overlap multiple specialties.\n\nGenetic counseling is an integral part of the process for patients utilizing preimplantation genetic testing (PGT), formerly called preimplantation genetic diagnosis. There are three types of PGT and all require in vitro fertilization (IVF) using assisted reproductive technology (ART). PGT-M, for monogenic disorders, involves testing embryos for a specific condition before it is implanted into the mother. This technique is currently being done for disorders with childhood onset, such as Cystic Fibrosis, Tay-Sachs and Muscular Dystrophy, as well as adult-onset conditions, including Huntington’s Disease, Hereditary Breast and Ovarian Cancer Syndrome, and Lynch Syndrome. PGT-SR, for structural rearrangements, involves testing embryos to establish a pregnancy unaffected by a structural chromosomal abnormality (translocation). PGT-A, for aneuploidy, was formerly called preimplantation genetic screening, and involved testing embryos to identify any de novo aneuploidy.\n\nGenetic counseling can also involve medical evaluation and clinical work-up for couples with infertility and/or recurrent pregnancy loss, as these histories can be associated with parental chromosome aberrations (such as inversions or translocations) and other genetic conditions.\n\nA rapidly expanding field in genetic counseling is cardiovascular genetics. More than 1 in 200 people have an inherited cardiovascular disease. Hereditary cardiac conditions range from common diseases, such as high cholesterol and coronary artery disease, to rare diseases like Long QT Syndrome, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, aortic and vascular diseases.  Genetic counselors who specialize in cardiovascular disease have developed skills specific to the management of and counseling for cardiovascular disorders. Cardiovascular genetic counselors are also integral in local and national efforts to prevent sudden cardiac death (the leading cause of sudden death in young people) by identifying patients with known or suspected heritable cardiovascular diseases and promoting cascade family screening or testing of at-risk relatives.\n\nCommon referral reasons include:\n\n\nGuidelines on cardiovascular genetics are published by multiple professional societies.\n\nCancer genetic counselors see individuals with a personal diagnosis and/or family history of cancer or symptoms of an inherited cancer syndrome. Genetic counselors take a family history and assess for hereditary risk, or risk that can be passed down from generation to generation. If indicated, they can coordinate genetic testing, typically via blood or saliva sample, to evaluate for hereditary cancer risk.  Personalized medical management and cancer screening recommendations can be provided based on results of genetic testing and/or the family history of cancer. While most cancers are sporadic (not inherited), some are more likely to have a hereditary factor, particularly when occurring at young ages or when clustering in families. These include common cancers such as breast, ovarian, colon and uterine cancers, as well as rare tumor types. General referral indications can include, but are not limited to:\n\n\nGenetic counselors specializing in neurogenetics are involved in the care of individuals who have or are at risk to develop conditions affecting the central nervous system (brain and spinal cord) or peripheral nervous system (the nerves that leave the spinal cord and go to other places in the body, such as the feet and hands, skeletal muscles, and internal organs). Effects of these conditions can lead to various impairments some examples of which include cognitive decline, intellectual disability, seizures, uncontrolled movements (e.g. ataxia, chorea), muscle weakness, paralysis, or atrophy. Examples of neurogenetic disorders include:\n\n\nPediatric genetic counseling can be indicated for newborns, infants, children and their families. General referral indications can include:  \n\nPrenatal genetics involves services for women either during or prior to a pregnancy.\n\nGeneral indications for referral to genetic counseling in the preconception or prenatal setting may include, but are not limited to:\n\n\nPrenatal genetic counseling may help with the decision-making process by walking patients through examples of what some people might do in similar situations, and their rationale for choosing that option. Decisions made by patients are affected by factors including timing, accuracy of information provided by tests, and risk and benefits of the tests. This discussion enables patients to place the information and circumstances into the context of their own lives, and in the context of their own values. They may choose to undergo noninvasive screening (e.g. ultrasound, triple screen, cell-free fetal DNA screening) or invasive diagnostic testing (amniocentesis or chorionic villus sampling). Invasive diagnostic tests possess a small risk of miscarriage (1-2%) but provide more definitive results. Testing is offered to provide a definitive answer regarding the presence of a certain genetic condition or chromosomal abnormality.\n\nPsychiatric genetic counseling is a sub-specialty within genetic counseling focused on helping people living with a psychiatric disorder and/or their family members understand both the genetic and environmental factors that contributed to their illness and address associated emotions such as guilt or self-blame. Genetic counselors also discuss strategies to promote recovery and protect mental health and address any questions on chances for recurrence in other family members. While currently there is no single gene solely responsible for causing a psychiatric disorder, there is strong evidence from family, twin studies, and genome-wide-association studies that both multiple genes and environment interact together. Like other areas of genetic counseling, patients at all different stages of life (pediatric, adult, prenatal) can have psychiatric genetic counseling. Since the etiology of psychiatric disorders is complex and not fully understood, the utility of genetic testing is not as clear as it is in Mendelian or single gene disorders. Research has shown that individuals who receive psychiatric genetic counseling have significant increases in feelings of empowerment and self-efficacy after genetic counseling.\n\nPsychiatric genetic counselors can help \"dispel mistaken notions about psychiatric disorders, calm needless anxiety, and help those at risk to draw up a rational plan of action based on the best available information\".\n\nThere are different approaches to genetic counseling. Some counselors favor a more purely psycho-educational approach while others incorporate more psycho-therapeutic techniques. Genetic counseling is psycho-educational as patients \"learn how genetics contributes to their health risks and then process what this means and how it feels.\"\n\n\"Whether the process of genetic counseling is a form of psychotherapy is up for debate\". The relationship between the client and counselor is similar as are the goals of the sessions. As a psychotherapist aims to help his client improve his wellbeing, a genetic counselor also helps his client to address a \"situational health threat that similarly threatens client wellbeing\". Due to the lack of studies which compare genetic counseling to the practice of psychotherapy, it is hard to say with certainty whether genetic counseling can be \"conceptualized as a short-term, applied, specific type of psychotherapy\". However, there few existing studies suggest that genetic counseling falls \"significantly short of psychotherapeutic counseling\" because genetic counseling sessions primarily consist of the distribution of information without much emphasis placed on explaining any long-term impacts to the client.\n\nGenetic counselors provide supportive counseling to families, serve as patient advocates and refer individuals and families to community or state support services. They serve as educators and resource people for other health care professionals and for the general public. Many engage in research activities related to the field of medical genetics and genetic counseling. When communicating increased risk, counselors anticipate the likely distress and prepare patients for the results. Counselors help clients cope with and adapt to the emotional, psychological, medical, social, and economic consequences of the test results.\n\nEach individual considers their family needs, social setting, cultural background, and religious beliefs when interpreting their risk. Clients must evaluate their reasoning to continue with testing at all. Counselors are present to put all the possibilities in perspective and encourage clients to take time to think about their decision. When a risk is found, counselors frequently reassure parents that they were not responsible for the result. An informed choice without pressure or coercion is made when all relevant information has been given and understood.\n\nAfter counseling for other hereditary conditions, the patient may be presented with the option of having genetic testing. In some circumstances no genetic testing is indicated, other times it may be useful to begin the testing process with an affected family member. The genetic counselor also reviews the advantages and disadvantages of genetic testing with the patient.\n\nMany studies have examined the attitudes of the lay public toward genetic counseling and genetic testing. Barriers to obtaining genetic counseling include lack of understanding of genetics by both patients and healthcare providers, concerns about cost and insurance, and fears of stigma and/or discrimination.\n\nNo simple correlation has been found between the change in technology to the changes in values and beliefs towards genetic testing.\n\nIn 2018, there are nearly 7000 genetic counselors practicing worldwide, across at least 28 countries.\n\nGenetic counseling in China (mainland) has been primarily provided by pediatricians or obstetricians for prenatal or birth defect diagnoses. Most genetic tests can only be performed in academic institutions as research tests or in commercial direct-to-consumer companies for non-clinical use.\n\nIn China, genetic counseling is steered by the Chinese Board of Genetic Counseling (CBGC), a not-for-profit organization. CBGC is composed of senior experts engaged in genetic education and research. CBGC is committed to establishing standardized procedures of genetic counseling, training qualified genetic counselors, improving health for all, and reducing the incidence of birth defects. CBGC was established in 2015 and is the major professional organization for genetic counselors in mainland China, providing training through short term online and in-person lectures, educational conferences, and certification for trainees.    \n\nGenetics education in China began in the 1980s when selected medical schools began offering genetics courses that focused predominantly on molecular genetics and had limited clinical content. At present, there are no official master’s level graduate programs in genetic counseling or clinical genetics in China, and there is great variability in the duration and content of genetics curricula among medical schools and professional organizations.\n\nThe Chinese Ministry of Health has not yet recognized genetic counselors as an independent health care occupation. There are no official statistics for the number of health care professionals (e.g., physicians, nurses, and lab technicians) who are providing genetic counseling services in China.\n\nGenetic Counselling is a developing field in South Africa. Currently, there are about 20 registered genetic counsellors practicing in the country. In South Africa, genetic counsellors work within academic institutions, in the private health sector and more recently, private genetic laboratories. A few qualified genetic counsellors have been employed outside of the country or in other professions, owing to funding limitations that have impacted employment opportunities, particularly in the academic/public health sector.\n\nThe first Genetic Counselling Programme in South Africa started in 1989 at the University of the Witwatersrand in Johannesburg, in the Gauteng province. A second programme started in 2004 at the University of Cape Town in the Western Cape province. These are the only two programmes offering Masters level genetic counselling training in South Africa. Currently these courses are running at full capacity.  This is a two year degree and includes a research component. The majority of students enter the Masters programme with a science background but those with a psychology background are also be considered.\n\nThe Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) requires two years of internship. Often the first year forms part of the Masters degree in Genetic Counselling and a further 12 month internship thereafter. Genetic Counsellors are required by law to register with the HPCSA in order to practice as genetic counsellors. At the end of the training period, registrants submit a portfolio to HPCSA for assessment. If successful, the intern will be registered with the HPCSA and will be able to practice as a Genetic Counsellor in South Africa.\n\nThere is a professional organisation for Genetic Counsellors in South Africa, Genetic Counselling South Africa (GC-SA), which provides information and guidance to the HPCSA and others regarding professional issues. The GCSA is a focus group of the South African Society of Human Genetics (SASHG).\n\nThe majority of Genetic Counsellors in the UK work in the National Health Service (NHS) in one of the 33 Regional Clinical Genetics Services (some re-named Genomic Medicine Centres in England), Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland. Others work in specialist roles in the NHS, education, policy or research. A minority work in the private sector.\n\nThe Association of Genetic Nurses and Counsellors (AGNC) is the UK's professional organisation representing genetic counsellors, genetic nurses and non-medical, patient-facing staff working within the discipline of Clinical Genetics. There are currently (March 2018) 330 AGNC members within the UK. The AGNC is one of the constituent groups of the British Society for Genetic Medicine (BSGM).\n\nThe first 2 year MSc in Genetic Counselling program established in the UK was from the University of Manchester 1992, followed by Cardiff University in Wales in 2000. 2016 saw major changes in the way genetic counsellors are trained in England. A 3-year training programme funded by Health Education England, the Scientist Training Programme (STP) uses a combination of work-based training in Genomic Medicine Centres and a part time MSc in Genetics (Genomic Counselling) from the University of Manchester. Recruitment is performed nationally through the National School of Healthcare Science (NSHCS). A 3-year part time MSc in Genetic and Genomic Counselling is also now delivered by Cardiff University, through blended learning, with most of the teaching delivered online, alongside some short face-to-face teaching blocks in Wales. A 2-year MSc Genetic and Genomic Counselling program began at the University of Glasgow in Scotland in 2016. Prerequisites for acceptance on all the programmes include a degree in a relevant science or a nursing or midwifery qualification, and experience in a caring role.  All genetic counselling training programmes are accredited by the UK Genetic Counsellor Registration Board (GCRB) and the European Board of Medical Genetics (EBMG).\n\nGenetic counsellors in the UK are regulated through the Genetic Counsellor Registration Board (GCRB), although currently GCRB registration is voluntary. The GCRB registry was accredited in 2016 by the Professional Standards Authority under its Accredited Registers programme. Over 200 genetic counsellors are currently registered through the GCRB. Genetic Counsellors trained through the STP programme are expected to be eligible to apply for statutory regulation through the Health Care Professions Council and it is planned that soon there will be equivalence arrangements with the GCRB to ensure statutory regulation for GCRB registered genetic counsellors.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12063194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12063194", "title": "History of gunpowder", "text": "History of gunpowder\n\nGunpowder is the first physical explosive. Before its discovery, many incendiary and burning devices had been used, including Greek fire. The discovery of gunpowder is attributed to experimentation in Chinese alchemy by Taoists in the pursuit of immortality, and is popularly listed as one of the \"Four Great Inventions\" of China. It was discovered during the late Tang dynasty (9th century) but the earliest record of a written formula appeared in the Song dynasty (11th century). Knowledge of gunpowder spread rapidly throughout the Old World possibly as a result of the Mongol conquests during the 13th century, with written formula for it appearing in the 1267 \"Opus Majus\" treatise by Roger Bacon and a 1280 treatise by Hasan al-Rammah. It was employed in warfare to some effect from at least the 12th century in weapons such as fire arrows, bombs, and the fire lance before the appearance of the gun. While the fire lance was eventually supplanted by the gun, other gunpowder weapons such as rockets and fire arrows continued to see use in China, Korea, India, and eventually Europe. Bombs too never ceased to develop and continued to progress into the modern day as grenades, mines, and other explosive implements. Gunpowder has also been used for non-military purposes such as fireworks for entertainment, or in explosives for mining and tunneling.\n\nThe evolution of guns led to the development of artillery during the 15th century, pioneered by states such as the Duchy of Burgundy. Firearms came to dominate early modern warfare in Europe by the 17th century. The gradual improvement of cannons firing heavier rounds for a greater impact against fortifications led to the invention of the star fort and the bastion in the Western world, where traditional city walls and castles were no longer suitable for defense. The use of gunpowder technology also spread throughout the Islamic world and to India, Korea, and Japan. The so-called Gunpowder Empires of the early modern period consisted of the Mughal Empire, Safavid Empire, and Ottoman Empire. The use of gunpowder in warfare during the course of the 19th century diminished due to the invention of smokeless powder. Gunpowder is often referred to today as \"black powder\" to distinguish it from the propellant used in contemporary firearms.\n\nAlthough it is not known precisely by whom gunpowder was discovered, most historians agree that gunpowder's origins were in China due to the amount of archaeological evidence and historical documents that exist predating others by centuries. The very earliest possible reference to gunpowder appeared in 142 AD during the Eastern Han dynasty when the alchemist Wei Boyang wrote about a substance with the properties of gunpowder. He described a mixture of three powders that would \"fly and dance\" violently in his \"Cantong qi\", otherwise known as the \"Book of the Kinship of Three\", a Taoist text on the subject of alchemy. Although it is impossible to know if he was actually referring to gunpowder, no other explosive known to scientists is composed of three powders. While it was almost certainly not their intention to create a weapon of war, Taoist alchemists continued to play a major role of gunpowder development due to their experiments with sulfur and saltpeter involved in searching for eternal life and ways to transmute one material into another. Historian Peter Lorge notes that despite the early association of gunpowder with Taoism, this may be a quirk of historiography and a result of the better preservation of texts associated with Taoism, rather than being a subject limited to only Taoists. The Taoist quest for the elixir of life attracted many powerful patrons, one of whom was Emperor Wu of Han. One of the resulting alchemical experiments involved heating 10% sulfur and 75% saltpeter to transform them.\n\nThe next reference to gunpowder occurred in the year 300 during the Jin dynasty (265–420). A Taoist philosopher by the name of Ge Hong wrote down the ingredients of gunpowder in his surviving works, collectively known as the \"Baopuzi\" (\"The Master Who Embraces Simplicity\"). The \"Inner Chapters\" on Taoism contains records of his experiments with heated saltpeter, pine resin, and charcoal among other carbon materials, resulting in explosion, which most historians acknowledge as an early form of gunpowder. In 492, Taoist alchemists noted that saltpeter, one of the most important ingredients in gunpowder, burns with a purple flame, allowing for practical efforts at purifying the substance.\n\nThe first confirmed reference to what can be considered gunpowder in China occurred more than three hundred years later during the Tang dynasty, first in a formula contained in the \"Taishang Shengzu Jindan Mijue\" (太上聖祖金丹秘訣) in 808, and then about 50 years later in a Taoist text known as the \"Zhenyuan miaodao yaolüe\" (真元妙道要略). The first formula was a combination of six parts sulfur to six parts saltpeter to one part birthwort herb. The Taoist text warned against an assortment of dangerous formulas, one of which corresponds with gunpowder: \"Some have heated together sulfur, realgar (arsenic disulphide),\nand saltpeter with honey; smoke [and flames] result, so that their hands and faces have been burnt, and even the whole house burned down.\" Alchemists called this discovery fire medicine (\"huoyao\" 火藥), and the term has continued to refer to gunpowder in China into the present day, a reminder of its heritage as a side result in the search for longevity increasing drugs.\n\nThe earliest surviving chemical formula of gunpowder dates to 1044 in the form of the military manual \"Wujing Zongyao\", also known in English as the \"Complete Essentials for the Military Classics\", which contains a collection of factoids on Chinese weaponry. The \"Wujing Zongyao\" served as a repository of antiquated or fanciful weaponry, and this applied to gunpowder as well, suggesting that it had already been weaponized long before the invention of what would today be considered conventional firearms. These types of gunpowder weapons styles an assortment of odd names such as \"flying incendiary club for subjugating demons,\" \"caltrop fire ball,\" \"ten-thousand fire flying sand magic bomb,\" \"big bees nest,\" \"burning heaven fierce fire unstoppable bomb,\" \"fire bricks\" which released \"flying swallows,\" \"flying rats,\" \"fire birds,\" and \"fire oxen\". Eventually they gave way and coalesced into a smaller number of dominant weapon types, notably gunpowder arrows, bombs, and guns. This was most likely because some weapons were deemed too onerous or ineffective to deploy.\n\nAt this point the formula contained too little saltpeter (about 50%) to be explosive, but the mixture was highly flammable, and contemporary weapons reflected this in their deployment as mainly shock and incendiary weapons. One of the first, if not the first of these weapons was the fire arrow. The first possible reference to the use of fire arrows was by the Southern Wu in 904 during the siege of Yuzhang. An officer under Yang Xingmi by the name of Zheng Fan (鄭璠) ordered his troops to \"shoot off a machine to let fire and burn the Longsha Gate,\" after which he and his troops dashed over the fire into the city and captured it, and he was promoted to Prime Minister Inspectorate for his efforts and the burns his body endured. A later account of this event corroborated with the report and explained that \"by let fire (飛火) is meant things like firebombs and fire arrows.\" Arrows carrying gunpowder were possibly the most applicable form of gunpowder weaponry at the time. Early gunpowder may have only produced an effective flame when exposed to oxygen, thus the rush of air around the arrow in flight would have provided a suitable catalyst for the reaction.\n\nThe first fire arrows were arrows strapped with gunpowder incendiaries, but in 969 two Song generals, Yue Yifang and Feng Jisheng (馮繼升), invented a variant fire arrow which utilized gunpowder tubes as propellants. Afterwards fire arrows started transitioning to rocket propelled weapons rather than being fired from a bow. These fire arrows were shown to the emperor in 970 when the head of a weapons manufacturing bureau sent Feng Jisheng to demonstrate the gunpowder arrow design, for which he was heavily rewarded. In 1000 a soldier by the name of Tang Fu (唐福) also demonstrated his own designs of gunpowder arrows, gunpowder pots (a proto-bomb which spews fire), and gunpowder caltrops, for which he was richly rewarded as well. The imperial court took great interest in the progress of gunpowder developments and actively encouraged as well as disseminated military technology. For example, in 1002 a local militia man named Shi Pu (石普) showed his own versions of fireballs and gunpowder arrows to imperial officials. They were so astounded that the emperor and court decreed that a team would be assembled to print the plans and instructions for the new designs to promulgate throughout the realm. The Song court's policy of rewarding military innovators was reported to have \"brought about a great number of cases of people presenting technology and techniques\" (器械法式) according to the official \"History of Song\". Production of gunpowder and fire arrows heavily increased in the 11th century as the court centralized the production process, constructing large gunpowder production facilities, hiring artisans, carpenters, and tanners for the military production complex in the capital of Kaifeng. One surviving source circa 1023 lists all the artisans working in Kaifeng while another notes that in 1083 the imperial court sent 100,000 gunpowder arrows to one garrison and 250,000 to another. Evidence of gunpowder in the Liao dynasty and Western Xia is much sparser than in Song, but some evidence such as the Song decree of 1073 that all subjects were henceforth forbidden from trading sulfur and saltpeter across the Liao border, suggests that the Liao were aware of gunpowder developments to the south and coveted gunpowder ingredients of their own.\n\nThe Jurchen people of Manchuria united under Wanyan Aguda and established the Jin dynasty in 1115. Allying with the Song, they rose rapidly to the forefront of East Asian powers and defeated the Liao dynasty in a shockingly short span of time, destroying the 150 year balance of power between the Song, Liao, and Western Xia. Remnants of the Liao fled to the west and became known as the Qara Khitai, or Western Liao to the Chinese. In the east, the fragile Song-Jin alliance dissolved once the Jin saw how badly the Song army had performed against Liao forces. Realizing the weakness of Song, the Jin grew tired of waiting and captured all five of the Liao capitals themselves. They proceeded to make war on Song, initiating the Jin-Song Wars. For the first time, two major powers would have access to equally formidable gunpowder weapons. Initially the Jin expected their campaign in the south to proceed smoothly given how poorly the Song had fared against the Liao. However they were met with stout resistance upon besieging Kaifeng in 1126 and faced the usual array of gunpowder arrows and fire bombs, but also a new weapon called the \"thunderclap bomb\" (霹靂炮), which one witness wrote, \"At night the thunderclap bombs were used, hitting the lines of the enemy well, and throwing them into great confusion. Many fled, screaming in fright.\"\n\nJin troops withdrew with a ransom of Song silk and treasure but returned several months later with their own gunpowder bombs manufactured by captured Song artisans. According to historian Wang Zhaochun, the account of this battle provided the \"earliest truly detailed descriptions of the use of gunpowder weapons in warfare.\" Records show that the Jin utilized gunpowder arrows and trebuchets to hurl gunpowder bombs while the Song responded with gunpowder arrows, fire bombs, thunderclap bombs, and a new addition called the \"molten metal bomb\" (金汁炮). As the Jin account describes, when they attacked the city's Xuanhua Gate, their \"fire bombs fell like rain, and their arrows were so numerous as to be uncountable.\" The Jin captured Kaifeng despite the appearance of the molten metal bomb and secured another 20,000 fire arrows for their arsenal.\n\nThe molten metal bomb appeared again in 1129 when Song general Li Yanxian (李彥仙) clashed with Jin forces while defending a strategic pass. The Jin assault lasted day and night without respite, using siege carts, fire carts, and sky bridges, but each assault was met with Song soldiers who \"resisted at each occasion, and also used molten metal bombs. Wherever the gunpowder touched, everything would disintegrate without a trace.\"\n\nThe Song relocated their capital to Hangzhou and the Jin followed. The fighting that ensued would see the first proto-gun, the fire lance, in action. Despite the low explosive potential of 11th-century gunpowder, it was possibly already being utilized in early projectile weapons such as the fire lance. There is some minor evidence of this based on an artistic depiction of it in the form of slightly predating the \"Wujing Zongyao\" showing a demon pointing what appears to be a fire lance at the Buddha, trying to disturb his meditation. Although most Chinese scholars reject the appearance of the fire lance prior to the Jin-Song wars, a Song text from 1000 and the \"Wujing Zongyao\" do make brief mentions of the fire lance. The fire lance, as implied by the name, is essentially a long spear or pole affixed with a tube of gunpowder, and as it saw more usage, the tube's length became longer and pellets were added to the composition.\n\nThe earliest confirmed employment of the fire lance in warfare was by Song dynasty forces against the Jin in 1132 during the siege of De'an (modern Anlu, Hubei Province), where they were used to great effect against wooden siege towers called \"sky bridges\": \"As the sky bridges became stuck fast, more than ten feet from the walls and unable to get any closer, [the defenders] were ready. From below and above the defensive structures they emerged and attacked with fire lances, striking lances, and hooked sickles, each in turn. The people [i.e., the porters] at the base of the sky bridges were repulsed. Pulling their bamboo ropes, they [the porters] ended up drawing the sky bridge back in an anxious and urgent rush, going about fifty paces before stopping.\" The surviving porters then tried once again to wheel the sky bridges into place but Song soldiers emerged from the walls in force and made a direct attack on the sky bridge soldiers while defenders on the walls threw bricks and shot arrows in conjunction with trebuchets hurling bombs and rocks. The sky bridges were also set fire to with incendiary bundles of grass and firewood. Li Heng, the Jin commander, decided to lift the siege and Jin forces were driven back with severe casualties.\n\nThe siege of De'an marks an important transition and landmark in the history of gunpowder weapons as the fire medicine of the fire lances were described using a new word: \"fire bomb medicine\" (火炮藥), rather than simply \"fire medicine.\" This could imply the use of a new more potent formula, or simply an acknowledgement of the specialized military application of gunpowder. Peter Lorge suggests that this \"bomb powder\" may have been corned, making it distinct from normal gunpowder. Evidence of gunpowder firecrackers also points to their appearance at roughly around the same time fire medicine was making its transition in the literary imagination. Fire lances continued to be used as anti-personnel weapons into the Ming dynasty, and were even attached to battle carts on one situation in 1163. Song commander Wei Sheng constructed several hundred of these carts known as \"at-your-desire-war-carts\" (如意戰車), which contained fire lances protruding from protective covering on the sides. They were used to defend mobile trebuchets that hurled fire bombs.\n\nGunpowder technology also spread to naval warfare and in 1129 Song decreed that all warships were to be fitted with trebuchets for hurling gunpowder bombs. Older gunpowder weapons such as fire arrows were also utilized. In 1159 a Song fleet of 120 ships caught a Jin fleet at anchor near Shijiu Island (石臼島) off the shore of Shandong peninsula. The Song commander \"ordered that gunpowder arrows be shot from all sides, and wherever they struck, flames and smoke rose up in swirls, setting fire to several hundred vessels.\" Song forces took another victory in 1161 when Song paddle boats ambushed a Jin transport fleet, launched thunderclap bombs, and drowned the Jin force in the Yangtze.\n\nAccording to a minor military official by the name of Zhao Wannian (趙萬年), thunderclap bombs were used again to great effect by the Song during the Jin siege of Xiangyang in 1206-1207. Both sides had gunpowder weapons, but the Jin troops only used gunpowder arrows for destroying the city's moored vessels. The Song used fire arrows, fire bombs, and thunderclap bombs. Fire arrows and bombs were used to destroy Jin trebuchets. The thunderclap bombs were used on Jin soldiers themselves, causing foot soldiers and horsemen to panic and retreat. \"We beat our drums and yelled from atop the city wall, and simultaneously fired our thunderclap missiles out from the city walls. The enemy cavalry was terrified and ran away.\" The Jin were forced to retreat and make camp by the riverside. In a rare occurrence, the Song made a successful offensive on Jin forces and conducted a night assault using boats. They were loaded with gunpowder arrows, thunderclap bombs, a thousand crossbowmen, five hundred infantry, and a hundred drummers. Jin troops were surprised in their encampment while asleep by loud drumming, followed by an onslaught of crossbow bolts, and then thunderclap bombs, which caused a panic of such magnitude that they were unable to even saddle themselves and trampled over each other trying to get away. Two to three thousand Jin troops were slaughtered along with eight to nine hundred horses.\n\nThen everything changed when the Jin dynasty attacked, with even better bombs: the iron bomb. Traditionally the inspiration for the development of the iron bomb is ascribed to the tale of a fox hunter named Iron Li. According to the story, around the year 1189 Iron Li developed a new method for hunting foxes which used a ceramic explosive to scare foxes into his nets. The explosive consisted of a ceramic bottle with a mouth, stuffed with gunpowder, and attached with a fuse. Explosive and net were placed at strategic points of places such as watering holes frequented by foxes, and when they got near enough, Iron Li would light the fuse, causing the ceramic bottle to explode and scaring the frightened foxes right into his nets. While a fanciful tale, it's not exactly certain why this would cause the development of the iron bomb, given the explosive was made using ceramics, and other materials such as bamboo or even leather would have done the same job, assuming they made a loud enough noise. Nonetheless, the iron bomb made its first appearance in 1221 at the siege of Qizhou (in modern Hubei province), and this time it would be the Jin who possessed the technological advantage. The Song command Zhao Yurong (趙與褣) survived and was able to relay his account for posterity.\n\nQizhou was a major fortress city situated near the Yangtze and a 25 thousand strong Jin army advanced on it in 1221. News of the approaching army reached Zhao Yurong in Qizhou, and despite being outnumbered nearly eight to one, he decided to hold the city. Qizhou's arsenal consisted of some three thousand thunderclap bombs, twenty thousand \"great leather bombs\" (皮大炮), and thousands of gunpowder arrows and gunpowder crossbow bolts. While the formula for gunpowder had become potent enough to consider the Song bombs to be true explosives, they were unable to match the explosive power of the Jin iron bombs. Yurong describes the uneven exchange thus, \"The barbaric enemy attacked the Northwest Tower with an unceasing flow of catapult projectiles from thirteen catapults. Each catapult shot was followed by an iron fire bomb [catapult shot], whose sound was like thunder. That day, the city soldiers in facing the catapult shots showed great courage as they maneuvered [our own] catapults, hindered by injuries from the iron fire bombs. Their heads, their eyes, their cheeks were exploded to bits, and only one half [of the face] was left.\" Jin artillerists were able to successfully target the command center itself: \"The enemy fired off catapult stones ... nonstop day and night, and the magistrate's headquarters [帳] at the eastern gate, as well as my own quarters ..., were hit by the most iron fire bombs, to the point that they struck even on top of [my] sleeping quarters and [I] nearly perished! Some said there was a traitor. If not, how would they have known the way to strike at both of these places?\" Zhao was able to examine the new iron bombs himself and described thus, \"In shape they are like gourds, but with a small mouth. They are made with pig iron, about two inches thick, and they cause the city's walls to shake.\" Houses were blown apart, towers battered, and defenders blasted from their placements. Within four weeks all four gates were under heavy bombardment. Finally the Jin made a frontal assault on the walls and scaled them, after which followed a merciless hunt for soldiers, officers, and officials of every level. Zhao managed an escape by clambering over the battlement and making a hasty retreat across the river, but his family remained in the city. Upon returning at a later date to search the ruins, he found that the \"bones and skeletons were so mixed up that there was no way to tell who was who.\"\n\nThe Mongols and their rise in world history as well as conflicts with both the Jin and Song played a key role in the evolution of gunpowder technology. Mongol aptitude in incorporating foreign experts extended to the Chinese, who provided artisans that followed Mongol armies willingly and unwillingly far into the west and even east, to Japan. Unfortunately textual evidence for this is scant as the Mongols left few documents. This lack of primary source documents has caused some historians and scholars such as Kate Raphael to doubt the Mongol's role in disseminating gunpowder throughout Eurasia. On the opposite side stand historians such as Tonio Andrade and Stephen Haw, who believe that the Mongol Empire not only used gunpowder weapons but deserves the moniker \"the first gunpowder empire.\"\n\nThe first concerted Mongol invasion of Jin occurred in 1211 and total conquest was not accomplished until 1234. In 1232 the Mongols besieged the Jin capital of Kaifeng and deployed gunpowder weapons along with other more conventional siege techniques such as building stockades, watchtowers, trenches, guardhouses, and forcing Chinese captives to haul supplies and fill moats. Jin scholar Liu Qi (劉祈) recounts in his memoir, \"the attack against the city walls grew increasingly intense, and bombs rained down as [the enemy] advanced.\" The Jin defenders also deployed gunpowder bombs as well as fire arrows (\"huo jian\" 火箭) launched using a type of early solid-propellant rocket. Of the bombs, Liu Qi writes, \"From within the walls the defenders responded with a gunpowder bomb called the heaven-shaking-thunder bomb (震天雷). Whenever the [Mongol] troops encountered one, several men at a time would be turned into ashes.\" A more fact based and clear description of the bomb exists in the \"History of Jin\": \"The heaven-shaking-thunder bomb is an iron vessel filled with gunpowder. When lighted with fire and shot off, it goes off like a crash of thunder that can be heard for a hundred li [thirty miles], burning an expanse of land more than half a mu [所爇圍半畝之上, a mu is a sixth of an acre], and the fire can even penetrate iron armor.\" A Ming official named He Mengchuan would encounter an old cache of these bombs three centuries later in the Xi'an area: \"When I went on official business to Shaanxi Province, I saw on top of Xi'an's city walls an old stockpile of iron bombs. They were called 'heaven-shaking-thunder' bombs, and they were like an enclosed rice bowl with a hole at the top, just big enough to put your finger in. The troops said they hadn't been used for a very long time.\" Furthermore, he wrote, \"When the powder goes off, the bomb rips open, and the iron pieces fly in all directions. That is how it is able to kill people and horses from far away.\"\n\nHeaven-shaking-thunder bombs, also known as thunder crash bombs, were utilized prior to the siege in 1231 when a Jin general made use of them in destroying a Mongol warship, but during the siege the Mongols responded by protecting themselves with elaborate screens of thick cowhide. This was effective enough for workers to get right up to the walls to undermine their foundations and excavate protective niches. Jin defenders countered by tying iron cords and attaching them to heaven-shaking-thunder bombs, which were lowered down the walls until they reached the place where the miners worked. The protective leather screens were unable to withstand the explosion, and were penetrated, killing the excavators. Another weapon the Jin employed was an improved version of the fire lance called the flying fire lance. The \"History of Jin\" provides a detailed description: \"To make the lance, use chi-huang paper, sixteen layers of it for the tube, and make it a bit longer than two feet. Stuff it with willow charcoal, iron fragments, magnet ends, sulfur, white arsenic [probably an error that should mean saltpeter], and other ingredients, and put a fuse to the end. Each troop has hanging on him a little iron pot to keep fire [probably hot coals], and when it's time to do battle, the flames shoot out the front of the lance more than ten feet, and when the gunpowder is depleted, the tube isn't destroyed.\" While Mongol soldiers typically held a view of disdain toward most Jin weapons, apparently they greatly feared the flying fire lance and heaven-shaking-thunder bomb. Kaifeng managed to hold out for a year before the Jin emperor fled and the city capitulated. In some cases Jin troops still fought with some success, scoring isolated victories such as when a Jin commander led 450 fire lancers against a Mongol encampment, which was \"completely routed, and three thousand five hundred were drowned.\" Even after the Jin emperor committed suicide in 1234, one loyalist gathered all the metal he could find in the city he was defending, even gold and silver, and made explosives to lob against the Mongols, but the momentum of the Mongol Empire could not be stopped. By 1234, both the Western Xia and Jin dynasty had been conquered.\n\nThe Mongol war machine moved south and in 1237 attacked the Song city of Anfeng (modern Shouxian, Anhui Province) \"using gunpowder bombs [huo pao] to burn the [defensive] towers.\" These bombs were apparently quite large. \"Several hundred men hurled one bomb, and if it hit the tower it would immediately smash it to pieces.\" The Song defenders under commander Du Gao (杜杲) rebuilt the towers and retaliated with their own bombs, which they called the \"Elipao,\" after a famous local pear, probably in reference to the shape of the weapon. Perhaps as another point of military interest, the account of this battle also mentions that the Anfeng defenders were equipped with a type of small arrow to shoot through eye slits of Mongol armor, as normal arrows were too thick to penetrate.\n\nBy the mid 13th century, gunpowder weapons had become central to the Song war effort. In 1257 the Song official Li Zengbo was dispatched to inspect frontier city arsenals. Li considered an ideal city arsenal to include several hundred thousand iron bombshells, and also its own production facility to produce at least a couple thousand a month. The results of his tour of the border were severely disappointing and in one arsenal he found \"no more than 85 iron bomb-shells, large and small, 95 fire-arrows, and 105 fire-lances. This is not sufficient for a mere hundred men, let alone a thousand, to use against an attack by the ... barbarians. The government supposedly wants to make preparations for the defense of its fortified cities, and to furnish them with military supplies against the enemy (yet this is all they give us). What chilling indifference!\" Fortunately for the Song, Möngke Khan died in 1259 and the war would not continue until 1269 under the leadership of Kublai Khan, but when it did the Mongols came in full force.\n\nBlocking the Mongols' passage south of the Yangtze were the twin fortress cities of Xiangyang and Fancheng. What resulted was one of the longest sieges the world had ever known, lasting from 1268 to 1273. For the first three years the Song defenders had been able to receive supplies and reinforcements by water, but in 1271 the Mongols set up a full blockade with a formidable navy of their own, isolating the two cities. This didn't prevent the Song from running the supply route anyway, and two men with the surname Zhang did exactly that. The Two Zhangs commanded a hundred paddle wheel boats, travelling by night under the light of lantern fire, but were discovered early on by a Mongol commander. When the Song fleet arrived near the cities, they found the Mongol fleet to have spread themselves out along the entire width of the Yangtze with \"vessels spread out, filling the entire surface of the river, and there was no gap for them to enter.\" Another defensive measure the Mongols had taken was the construction of a chain, which stretched across the water. The two fleets engaged in combat and the Song opened fire with fire-lances, fire-bombs, and crossbows. A large number of men died trying to cut through chains, pull up stakes, and hurl bombs, while Song marines fought hand to hand using large axes, and according to the Mongol record, \"on their ships they were up to the ankles in blood.\" With the rise of dawn, the Song vessels made it to the city walls and the citizens \"leapt up a hundred times in joy.\" In 1273 the Mongols enlisted the expertise of two Muslim engineers, one from Persia and one from Syria, who helped in the construction of counterweight trebuchets. These new siege weapons had the capability of throwing larger missiles further than the previous traction trebuchets. One account records, \"when the machinery went off the noise shook heaven and earth; every thing that [the missile] hit was broken and destroyed.\" The fortress city of Xiangyang fell in 1273.\n\nThe next major battle to feature gunpowder weapons was during a campaign led by the Mongol general Bayan, who commanded an army of around two hundred thousand, consisting of mostly Chinese soldiers. It was probably the largest army the Mongols had ever utilized. Such an army was still unable to successfully storm Song city walls, as seen in the 1274 Siege of Shayang. Thus Bayan waited for the wind to change to a northerly course before ordering his artillerists to begin bombarding the city with molten metal bombs, which caused such a fire that \"the buildings were burned up and the smoke and flames rose up to heaven.\" Shayang was captured and its inhabitants massacred.\n\nGunpowder bombs were used again in the 1275 Siege of Changzhou in the latter stages of the Mongol-Song Wars. Upon arriving at the city, Bayan gave the inhabitants an ultimatum: \"if you ... resist us ... we shall drain your carcasses of blood and use them for pillows.\" This didn't work and the city resisted anyway, so the Mongol army bombarded them with fire bombs before storming the walls, after which followed an immense slaughter claiming the lives of a quarter million. The war lasted for only another four years during which some remnants of the Song held up last desperate defenses. In 1277, 250 defenders under Lou Qianxia conducted a suicide bombing and set off a huge iron bomb when it became clear defeat was imminent. Of this, the \"History of Song\" writes, \"the noise was like a tremendous thunderclap, shaking the walls and ground, and the smoke filled up the heavens outside. Many of the troops [outside] were startled to death. When the fire was extinguished they went in to see. There were just ashes, not a trace left.\" So came an end to the Mongol-Song Wars, which saw the deployment of all the gunpowder weapons available to both sides at the time, which for the most part meant gunpowder arrows, bombs, and lances, but in retrospect, another development would overshadow them all, the birth of the gun.\n\nIn 1280, a large store of gunpowder at Weiyang in Yangzhou accidentally caught fire, producing such a massive explosion that a team of inspectors at the site a week later deduced that some 100 guards had been killed instantly, with wooden beams and pillars blown sky high and landing at a distance of over 10 li (~2 mi. or ~3 km) away from the explosion, creating a crater more than ten feet deep. One resident described the noise of the explosion as if it \"was like a volcano erupting, a tsunami crashing. The entire population was terrified.\" According to surviving reports, the incident was caused by inexperienced gunpowder makers hired to replace the previous ones, and had been careless while grinding sulfur. A spark caused by the grinding process came into contact with some fire lances which immediately started spewing flames and jetting around \"like frightened snakes.\" The gunpowder makers did nothing as they found the sight highly amusing, that is until one fire lance burst into a cache of bombs, causing the entire complex to explode. The validity of this report is somewhat questionable, assuming everyone within the immediate vicinity was killed.\n\nBy the time of Jiao Yu and his \"Huolongjing\" (a book that describes military applications of gunpowder in great detail) in the mid 14th century, the explosive potential of gunpowder was perfected, as the level of nitrate in gunpowder formulas had risen from a range of 12% to 91%, with at least 6 different formulas in use that are considered to have maximum explosive potential for gunpowder. By that time, the Chinese had discovered how to create explosive round shot by packing their hollow shells with this nitrate-enhanced gunpowder.\n\nGunpowder may have been used during the Mongol invasions of Europe. \"Fire catapults\", \"pao\", and \"naphtha-shooters\" are mentioned in some sources. However, according to Timothy May, \"there is no concrete evidence that the Mongols used gunpowder weapons on a regular basis outside of China.\"\n\nShortly after the Mongol invasions of Japan (1274-1281), the Japanese produced a scroll painting depicting a bomb. Called tetsuhau in Japanese, the bomb is speculated to have been the Chinese thunder crash bomb. Japanese descriptions of the invasions also talk of iron and bamboo \"pao\" causing \"light and fire\" and emitting 2-3,000 iron bullets.\n\nTo clarify for the purposes of this section and any other references to \"firearms\" or \"guns\" in this article, what is meant is a gunpowder weapon which uses \"the explosive force of the gunpowder to propel a projectile from a tube: cannons, muskets, and pistols are typical examples.\"\n\nThe early fire lance, considered to be the ancestor of firearms, is not considered a true gun because it did not include projectiles. Later on, shrapnel such as ceramics and bits of iron were added, but these didn't occlude the barrel, and were only swept along with the discharge rather than make use of windage. These projectiles were called \"co-viatives.\" The commonplace nature of the fire lance, if not in quantity, was apparent by the mid 13th century, and in 1257 an arsenal in Jiankang Prefecture reported the manufacture of 333 \"fire emitting tubes\" (突火筒). In 1259 a type of \"fire-emitting lance\" (突火槍) made an appearance and according to the \"History of Song\": \"It is made from a large bamboo tube, and inside is stuffed a pellet wad (子窠). Once the fire goes off it completely spews the rear pellet wad forth, and the sound is like a bomb that can be heard for five hundred or more paces.\" The pellet wad mentioned is possibly the first true bullet in recorded history depending on how bullet is defined, as it did occlude the barrel, unlike previous co-viatives used in the fire lance.\n\nFire lances transformed from the \"bamboo- (or wood- or paper-) barreled firearm to the metal-barreled firearm\" to better withstand the explosive pressure of gunpowder. From there it branched off into several different gunpowder weapons known as \"eruptors\" in the late 12th and early 13th centuries, with different functions such as the \"filling-the-sky erupting tube\" which spewed out poisonous gas and porcelain shards, the \"orifice-penetrating flying sand magic mist tube\" (鑽穴飛砂神霧筒) which spewed forth sand and poisonous chemicals into orifices, and the more conventional \"phalanx-charging fire gourd\" which shot out lead pellets. The character for lance, or spear (槍), has continued to refer to both the melee weapon and the firearm into modern China, perhaps as a reminder of its original form as simply a tube of gunpowder tied to a spear.\n\nTraditionally the first appearance of the hand cannon is dated to the late 13th century, just after the Mongol conquest of the Song dynasty. However a sculpture depicting a figure carrying a gourd shaped hand cannon was discovered among the Dazu Rock Carvings in 1985 by Robin Yates. The sculptures were completed roughly 250 km northwest of Chongqing by 1128, after the fall of Kaifeng to the Jin dynasty. If the dating is correct this would push back the appearance of the cannon in China by a hundred years more than previously thought. The bulbous nature of the cannon is congruous with the earliest hand cannons discovered in China and Europe.\n\nArchaeological samples of the gun, specifically the hand cannon (huochong), have been dated starting from the 13th century. The oldest extant gun whose dating is unequivocal is the Xanadu Gun, so called because it was discovered in the ruins of Xanadu, the Mongol summer palace in Inner Mongolia. The Xanadu Gun is 34.7 cm in length and weighs 6.2 kg. Its dating is based on archaeological context and a straightforward inscription whose era name and year corresponds with the Gregorian Calendar at 1298. Not only does the inscription contain the era name and date, it also includes a serial number and manufacturing information which suggests that gun production had already become systematized, or at least become a somewhat standardized affair by the time of its fabrication. The design of the gun includes axial holes in its rear which some speculate could have been used in a mounting mechanism. Like most early guns with the possible exception of the Western Xia gun, it is small, weighing just over six kilograms and thirty-five centimeters in length. Although the Xanadu Gun is the most precisely dated gun from the 13th century, other extant samples with approximate dating likely predate it.\n\nOne candidate is the Heilongjiang hand cannon, discovered in 1970, and named after the province of its discovery, Heilongjiang, in northeastern China. It is small and light like the Xanadu gun, weighing only 3.5 kilograms, 34 cm (Needham says 35 cm), and a bore of approximately 2.5 cm. Based on contextual evidence, historians believe it was used by Yuan forces against a rebellion by Mongol prince Nayan in 1287. The History of Yuan states that a Jurchen commander known as Li Ting led troops armed with hand cannons into battle against Nayan.\n\nEven older, the Ningxia gun was found in Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region by collector Meng Jianmin (孟建民). This Yuan dynasty firearm is 34.6 cm long, the muzzle 2.6 cm in diameter, and weighs 1.55 kilograms. The firearm contains a transcription reading, \"Made by bronzesmith Li Liujing in the year Zhiyuan 8 (直元), ningzi number 2565\" (銅匠作頭李六徑，直元捌年造，寧字二仟伍百陸拾伍號). Similar to the Xanadu Gun, it bears a serial number 2565, which suggests it may have been part of a series of guns manufactured. While the era name and date corresponds with the Gregorian Calendar at 1271 CE, putting it earlier than both the Heilongjiang Hand Gun as well as the Xanadu Gun, but one of the characters used in the era name is irregular, causing some doubt among scholars on the exact date of production.\n\nAnother specimen, the Wuwei Bronze Cannon, was discovered in 1980 and may possibly be the oldest as well as largest cannon of the 13th century: a 100 centimeter 108 kilogram bronze cannon discovered in a cellar in Wuwei, Gansu Province containing no inscription, but has been dated by historians to the late Western Xia period between 1214 and 1227. The gun contained an iron ball about nine centimeters in diameter, which is smaller than the muzzle diameter at twelve centimeters, and 0.1 kilograms of gunpowder in it when discovered, meaning that the projectile might have been another co-viative. Ben Sinvany and Dang Shoushan believe that the ball used to be much larger prior to its highly corroded state at the time of discovery. While large in size, the weapon is noticeably more primitive than later Yuan dynasty guns, and is unevenly cast. A similar weapon was discovered not far from the discovery site in 1997, but much smaller in size at only 1.5 kg. Chen Bingying disputes this however, and argues there were no guns before 1259, while Dang Shoushan believes the Western Xia guns point to the appearance of guns by 1220, and Stephen Haw goes even further by stating that guns were developed as early as 1200. Sinologist Joseph Needham and renaissance siege expert Thomas Arnold provide a more conservative estimate of around 1280 for the appearance of the \"true\" cannon. Whether or not any of these are correct, it seems likely that the gun was born sometime during the 13th century.\n\nAlthough the oldest extant guns appear in the Yuan dynasty, the historian Tonio Andrade notes that there is a surprising scarcity of reliable evidence of guns in Iran or Central Asia prior to the late 14th century. He argues that, in the Middle East, no guns are mentioned prior to the 1360s, while Russian records do not contain reliable mentions of firearms until 1382, after the gun's arrival in western Europe, despite their closer proximity and interactions with the Mongol empires. \n\nThere is some evidence that does point to the possible appearance of guns in Andalusia as early as the 1330s. Thomas Allsen says that \"in the Latin West the first uncontestable evidence of firearms is from 1326, surprisingly somewhat earlier than in the lands that lie between China ... and western Europe. This has caused some doubt among historians on the gun transmission theory, and even whether or not there was a transmission at all. One dissident opinion comes from Stephen Morillo, Jeremy Black, and Paul Lococo's \"War in World History\" which argues that \"the sources are not entirely clear about Chinese use of gunpowder in guns. There are references to bamboo and iron cannons, or perhaps proto-cannons, but these seem to have been small, unreliable, handheld weapons in this period. The Chinese do seem to have invented guns independently of the Europeans, at least in principle; but, in terms of effective cannon, the edge goes to Europe.\" \n\nThere was also a stream of thought in Europe that emerged as early as the 15th century, that attributed the invention of both gunpowder and the gun to a certain Berthold Schwartz. However it's not exactly certain who Berthold was or if he ever existed as there are no contemporary records of him. Some consider him a mythical figure, used as a stand-in \"for all the curious and ingenious experiments related to the new and dangerous mixture of saltpetre, sulfur (brimstone) and carbon.\" William Camden declared in 1605:\n\nThere is another independent invention theory supporting an Islamic origin of the gun, citing the Mamluk deployment of hand cannons in 1260 and a passage by Ibn Khaldun on the Marinid Siege of Sijilmassa in 1274: \"[ The Sultan] installed siege engines … and gunpowder engines …, which project small balls of iron. These balls are ejected from a chamber … placed in front of a kindling fire of gunpowder; this happens by a strange property which attributes all actions to the power of the Creator.\" The passage, dated to 1382, and its interpretation has been rejected as anachronistic by most historians, who urge caution regarding claims of Islamic firearms use in the 1204-1324 period as late medieval Arabic texts used the same word for gunpowder, naft, as they did for an earlier incendiary, naphtha. Needham believes Ibn Khaldun was speaking of fire lances rather than hand cannon.\n\nHistorian Ahmad Y. al-Hassan, based on his analysis of 14th-century Arabic manuscripts which he argues to be copies of earlier texts, claims that hand cannons were used at the Battle of Ain Jalut in 1260. However Hassan's claims have been refuted by other historians such as David Ayalon, Iqtidar Alam Khan, Joseph Needham, Tonio Andrade, and Gabor Ágoston. Khan argues that it was the Mongols who introduced gunpowder to the Islamic world, and believes cannons only reached Mamluk Egypt in the 1370s. According to Needham, the term \"midfa\", dated to textual sources from 1342 to 1352, did not refer to true hand-guns or bombards, and contemporary accounts of a metal-barrel cannon in the Islamic world do not occur until 1365 Similarly, Andrade dates the textual appearance of cannon in middle eastern sources to the 1360s. Gabor Ágoston and David Ayalon believe the Mamluks had certainly used siege cannon by the 1360s, but earlier uses of cannon in the Islamic World are vague with a possible appearance in the Emirate of Granada by the 1320s, however evidence is inconclusive.\n\nHistorian Tonio Andrade supports the gun transmission theory, noting that while records of gunpowder weapons and their evolution into the gun exist in China, \"there are no records of any such developments in Europe,\" and that the arrival of the gun in Europe was such that it \"appears fully formed around 1326.\" This is not strictly true, as Kelly DeVries points out that compilers of early gunpowder recipes in Europe understood that should the instrument carrying gunpowder be enclosed on one end, the gunpowder reaction inside would produce \"flying fire.\" Andrade goes on to analyze the nature and etymology of gunpowder in Europe and comes to the conclusion that it is intrinsically in favor of the transmission theory rather than an independent invention. There are the older and more numerous formulas of gunpowder using a variety of different proportions of key ingredients - saltpeter, sulphur, and charcoal - which he believes is proof of its evolution and experimentation in China, where gunpowder was first applied to warfare as an incendiary, then explosive, and finally as a propellant. In contrast gunpowder formulas in Europe appear both later and offer very little divergence from the already ideal proportions for the purpose of creating an explosive and propellant powder. Another facet of the gunpowder transmission theory is the appearance of gunpowder in Europe ready made for military usage, and is generally referred to as \"gun\"powder rather than a civilian term such as the Chinese \"fire-drug,\" which suggests an originally non-military usage, whereas in Europe it was almost immediately and exclusively used for its military qualities. Muslim terms of saltpeter may also point toward a gunpowder transmission, if not the gun itself, as an Andalusian botanist referred to it as \"Chinese snow,\" while in Persia it was called \"Chinese salt.\" Perhaps even further in the Sinocentric gun transmission camp is Joseph Needham who claims that \"all the long preparations and tentative experiments were made in China, and everything came to Islam and the West fully fledged, whether it was the fire-lance or the explosive bomb, the rocket or the metal-barrel hand-gun and bombard.\" However, theories of European as well as Islamic origins for the gun still persist today in tandem with the transmission theory.\n\nThere are problems on both extremes of the gun transmission debate. Its proponents emphasize the older history of gunpowder evolution as attested by historical records and archaeological samples in China, its less obviously militarily focused name as \"fire medicine,\" the Mongol role as a catalyst in disseminating gunpowder technology, and criticizes the scant or absent evidence of prior experimentation with gunpowder in Europe for non-military purposes before the arrival of the gun. However, there are still several blanks in the history of a gun transmission theory and the questions they raise which its proponents have been unable to answer. The rapid spread of guns across Eurasia, only 50 years from China to Europe, with non-existent evidence of its route from one extreme of the continent to the other, remains a mystery. Other Chinese inventions such as the compass, paper, and printing took centuries to reach Europe, with events such as the Battle of Talas as perhaps a possible takeoff point for discussion. No such event exists on record for either gunpowder or the gun. There is simply no clear route of transmission, and while the Mongols are often pointed to as the likeliest vector, Timothy May points out that \"there is no concrete evidence that the Mongols used gunpowder weapons on a regular basis outside of China.\" According to Kate Raphael, the list of Chinese specialists recruited by Genghis Khan and Hulagu provided by the History of Yuan includes only carpenters and blacksmiths, but no gunpowder workers. A conclusion most military historians in the transmission camp have come to is that the rapid diffusion of gunpowder and the gun is probably best explained by its clear military applications.\n\nOn the other side of the debate, opponents of the theory criticize the vagueness of Chinese records on the specific usage of gunpowder in weaponry, the existence of gunpowder or possibly lack thereof in incendiary weapons as described by Chinese documents, the weakness of Chinese firearms, the non-existent route of diffusion or evidence of guns between Europe and China before 1326, and emphasize the independent evolution of superior guns in Europe. This too becomes problematic as already discussed above. Notably there is an acute dearth of any significant evidence of evolution or experimentation with gunpowder or gunpowder weapons leading up to the gun in 1326, which can be found in China. Gunpowder appeared in Europe primed for military usage as an explosive and propellant, bypassing a process which took centuries of Chinese experimentation with gunpowder weaponry to reach, making a nearly instantaneous and seamless transition into gun warfare, as its name suggests. Furthermore, early European gunpowder recipes shared identical defects with Chinese recipes such as the inclusion of the poisons sal ammoniac and arsenic, which provide no benefit to gunpowder. Bert S. Hall explains this phenomenon in his \"Weapons and Warfare in Renaissance Europe: Gunpowder, Technology, and Tactics\" by drawing upon the gunpowder transmission theory, explaining that \"gunpowder came [to Europe], not as an ancient mystery, but as a well-developed modern technology, in a manner very much like twentieth-century 'technology-transfer' projects.\" In a similar vein Peter Lorge supposes that the Europeans experienced gunpowder \"free from preconceived notions of what could be done,\" in contrast to China, \"where a wide range of formulas and a broad variety of weapons demonstrated the full range of possibilities and limitations of the technologies involved.\" There is also the vestige of Chinese influence, and not European, on Muslim terminology of some gunpowder related items such as saltpeter, which has been described as either Chinese snow or salt, fireworks which were called Chinese flowers, and rockets which were called Chinese arrows. Moreover, Europeans in particular experienced great difficulty in obtaining saltpeter, a primary ingredient of gunpowder which was relatively scarce in Europe compared to China, and had to be obtained from \"distant lands or extracted at high cost from soil rich in dung and urine.\" Thomas Arnold believes that the similarities between early European cannons and contemporary Chinese models suggests a direct transmission of cannon making knowledge from China rather than a home grown development. Whatever the truth may be, the first unambiguous references to guns appeared in Europe in the 1320s.\n\nThe Mongol army incorporated Chinese siege units in 1214 and they constituted part of the body which invaded Khwarezmia in 1219. Chinese siege units saw action in Transoxania in 1220 and in the north Caucasus during the 1239–1240 Mongol invasions of Georgia and Armenia. Furthermore, the \"Tarikh-i Jahangushay\" records that Hulagu Khan procured one thousand families of Chinese siege experts in 1253, five years prior to the Siege of Baghdad (1258). Some historians speculate that the Chinese may have used siege weapons to hurl gunpowder bombs during their time in the Mongol army. A common theory among historians is that the Mongol invasion brought Chinese gunpowder weapons to Central Asia and other parts of the world.\n\nThe Muslim world acquired knowledge of gunpowder some time after 1240, but before 1280, by which time Hasan al-Rammah had written, in Arabic, recipes for gunpowder, instructions for the purification of saltpeter, and descriptions of gunpowder incendiaries. Gunpowder arrived in the Middle East, possibly through India, from China. This is implied by al-Rammah's usage of \"terms that suggested he derived his knowledge from Chinese sources\" and his refers to saltpeter as \"Chinese snow\" , fireworks as \"Chinese flowers\" and rockets as \"Chinese arrows\". However, because al-Rammah attributes his material to \"his father and forefathers\", al-Hassan argues that gunpowder became prevalent in Syria and Egypt by \"the end of the twelfth century or the beginning of the thirteenth\". Persians called saltpeter \"Chinese salt\" or \"salt from Chinese salt marshes\" ( ). Al-Baytar, an Arab from Spain who had immigrated to Egypt, wrote in Arabic that \"snow of China\" ( ) was the name used to describe saltpeter. Al-Baytar died in 1248.\n\nThe earliest surviving documentary evidence for the use of the hand cannon in the Islamic world are from several Arabic manuscripts dated to the 14th century. According to historian Ahmad Y. al-Hassan, these manuscripts are copies of earlier manuscripts and reported on hand-held cannon being used by the Mamluks at the Battle of Ain Jalut in 1260. Khan claims that it was invading Mongols who introduced gunpowder to the Islamic world and cites Mamluk antagonism towards early riflemen in their infantry as an example of how gunpowder weapons were not always met with open acceptance in the Middle East. Similarly, the refusal of their Qizilbash forces to use firearms contributed to the Safavid rout at Chaldiran in 1514.\n\nHasan al-Rammah also describes the purifying of saltpeter using the chemical processes of solution and crystallization. This was the first clear method for the purification of saltpeter. The earliest torpedo was also first described in 1270 by Hasan al-Rammah in \"The Book of Military Horsemanship and Ingenious War Devices\", which illustrated a torpedo running with a rocket system filled with explosive materials and having three firing points.\n\nA common theory of how gunpowder came to Europe is that it made its way along the Silk Road through the Middle East. Another is that it was brought to Europe during the Mongol invasion in the first half of the 13th century. Some sources claim that Chinese firearms and gunpowder weapons may have been deployed by Mongols against European forces at the Battle of Mohi in 1241. It may also have been due to subsequent diplomatic and military contacts (see Franco-Mongol alliance). Professor Kenneth Warren Chase credits the Mongols for introducing into Europe gunpowder and its associated weaponry.\n\nThe earliest European references to gunpowder are found in Roger Bacon's \"Opus Majus\" from 1267. Coincidentally Roger Bacon was known to have been a close friend of William of Rubruck, who served as an ambassador to the Mongols from 1253-1255. William returned to Europe in 1257 and accounts of his journey were generally received with lackluster response and saw little circulation. However his friend Roger Bacon took particular interest in his experience. Historians such as Joseph Needham and Kenneth Chase have noted this and pointed out William of Rubruck as a possible intermediary in the transmission of gunpowder. Roger Bacon's description of gunpowder usage also suggests it was commonly found in various parts of the world prior to its appearance in Europe:\n\nThe oldest written recipes for gunpowder in Europe were recorded under the name Marcus Graecus or Mark the Greek between 1280 and 1300.\n\nHistorian Kenneth Warren Chase has suggested that a medieval Armenian manuscript from 1307 which mentions powerful weapons that had been built by the Chinese is a reference to the Chinese invention of gunpowder. The Armenian monk Hetoum says this about China:\n\nThere is a record of a gun in Europe dating to 1322 being discovered in the nineteenth century but the artifact has since been lost. The earliest known European depiction of a gun appeared in 1326 in a manuscript by Walter de Milemete, although not necessarily drawn by him, known as \"De Nobilitatibus, sapientii et prudentiis regum\" (Concerning the Majesty, Wisdom, and Prudence of Kings), which displays a gun with a large arrow emerging from it and its user lowering a long stick to ignite the gun through the touchole In the same year, another similar illustration showed a darker gun being set off by a group of knights, which also featured in another work of de Milemete's, \"De secretis secretorum Aristotelis\". On 11 February of that same year, the Signoria of Florence appointed two officers to obtain \"canones de mettallo\" and ammunition for the town's defense. In the following year a document from the Turin area recorded a certain amount was paid \"for the making of a certain instrument or device made by Friar Marcello for the projection of pellets of lead.\" A reference from 1331 describes an attack mounted by two Germanic knights on Cividale del Friuli, using gunpowder weapons of some sort. The 1320s seem to have been the takeoff point for guns in Europe according to most modern military historians. Scholars suggest that the lack of gunpowder weapons in a well-traveled Venetian's catalogue for a new crusade in 1321 implies that guns were unknown in Europe up until this point, further solidifying the 1320 mark, however more evidence in this area may be forthcoming in the future.\n\nFrom the 1320s guns spread rapidly across Europe. The French raiding party that sacked and burned Southampton in 1338 brought with them a ribaudequin and 48 bolts (but only 3 pounds of gunpowder). By 1341 the town of Lille had a \"tonnoire master,\" and a tonnoire was an arrow-hurling gun. In 1345, two iron cannons were present in Toulouse. In 1346 Aix-la-Chapelle too possessed iron cannons which shot arrows (busa ferrea ad sagittandum tonitrum). The Battle of Crécy in 1346 was one of the first in Europe where cannons were used. Florentine chronicler Giovanni Villani describes the deployment of firearms thus, \"The English king arranged his archers, of whom he had many, on the carts, and some below and with guns [bombarde] that threw out small iron pellets [pallottole] with fire, to frighten the French horsemen and cause them to desert.\" Another incident in the summer of 1346 involved a man by the name of Peter de Bruges who demonstrated to the consuls of Tournai the power of an arrow shooting gun, which went off making \"a terrible and tremendous noise,\" and the arrow flew over the town, landing in a monastery plaza, unceremoniously killing a man by headshot. De Bruges ran in fear of prosecution but the consuls judged the incident an accident of no fault of his own. Two years later the town of Deventer had in its possession three cannons, or \"dunrebussen\", and Frankfurt had cannons that shot arrows (\"büzenpzle\"), while the city of Rouen reported a \"pot that shot iron arrows with fire\" (pot de fer à traire garros à feu). In 1350 Petrarch wrote that the presence of cannons on the battlefield was 'as common and familiar as other kinds of arms'.\n\nAlong with the transmission and growing use of guns in Europe also came an infamous reputation. At least three Europeans in the 14th century described guns as either abnormal or inhuman. For instance, in 1344 Petrarch writes, \"I wonder that thou hast not also brazen globes, which are cast forth by the force of flame with a horrible sound of thunder. Was not the wrath of an immortal god thundering from heaven sufficient, that the small being man— oh cruelty joined to pride— must even thunder on earth? Human rage has endeavored to imitate the thunder which cannot be imitated … and that which is wont to be sent from the clouds is now thrown from an infernal instrument.\" furthermore he compares guns to the plague, \"This plague was only recently so rare as to be looked on as a miracle; now … it has become as common as any other kind of weapon.\" Englishman John Mirfield describes the gun as \"that devilish instrument of war colloquially termed gunne,\" and Francesco di Giorgio Martini thought likewise of the discovery of guns and gunpowder, attributing it \"not to human but to devilish agency.\" In the history of early European guns, Christian authorities made vehement remarks against the use of gunpowder weapons, calling them blasphemous and part of the 'Black Arts'. By the mid-14th century, however, even the army of the Papal States would be armed with artillery and gunpowder weapons.\n\nAmong the oldest archaeological examples of guns in Europe, there are two pieces from Sweden, the Loshult gun, and lesser known Mörkö gun. Possibly Europe's oldest extant firearm, the Loshult gun is a cast-bronze gun in the shape of a vase discovered in 1861 and named after the Swedish parish where the farmer dug it up. It is generally dated to around the mid 14th century and measures 31 cm overall, at a weight of 9 kilograms; the bore at the muzzle is 36 mm narrowing down to 31 mm on its way to the rear. A replica made by scholars has performed well shooting both arrows and other projectiles such as lead balls, grapeshot, and pieces of flint. The arrows and lead balls proved capable of penetrating late medieval plate armor as well as hitting a stationary target 200 meters away. However scholars believe the gun was primarily used for short range engagements because of the deep ruts and scratches in the barrel, which suggests that it carried shrapnel, an inaccurate but deadly projectile. It is now preserved in the Statens Historiska Museet Stockholm, inv.-no. 2891. The Mörkö gun was found by a fisherman in the Baltic Sea at the coast of Södermansland near Nynäs before 1828 and dates to around the same period as the Loshult gun, ca. 1390. In Germany the oldest gun is the Tannenberg handgonne discovered in 1849 at the bottom of a water well of the 1399 destroyed Tannenberg castle in Hessen. It was found with a lead ball still loaded, and its wooden staff nearby, which started decaying after being exposed to air. The gun was aimed using the wooden staff, which fit into the back socket of the gun. References to \"gunnis cum telar\" (guns with handles) were recorded in 1350 and by 1411 it was recorded that John the Good, Duke of Burgundy, had 4000 handguns stored in his armory.\n\nAround the late 14th century European and Ottoman guns began to deviate in purpose and design from guns in China, changing from small anti-personnel and incendiary devices to the larger artillery pieces most people imagine today when using the word \"cannon.\" If the 1320s can be considered the arrival of the gun on the European scene, then the end of the 14th century may very well be the departure point from the trajectory of gun development in China. In the last quarter of the 14th century, European guns grew larger and began to blast down fortifications.\n\nGunpowder technology is believed to have arrived in India by the mid-14th century, but could have been introduced much earlier by the Mongols, who had conquered both China and some borderlands of India, perhaps as early as the mid-13th century. The unification of a large single Mongol Empire resulted in the free transmission of Chinese technology into Mongol conquered parts of India. Regardless, it is believed that the Mongols used Chinese gunpowder weapons during their invasions of India. It was written in the \"Tarikh-i Firishta\" (1606–1607) that the envoy of the Mongol ruler Hulegu Khan was presented with a dazzling pyrotechnics display upon his arrival in Delhi in 1258 AD. The first gunpowder device, as opposed to naphtha-based pyrotechnics, introduced to India from China in the second half of the 13th century, was a rocket called the \"hawai\" (also called \"ban\"). The rocket was used as an instrument of war from the second half of the 14th century onward, and the Delhi sultanate as well as Bahmani kingdom made good use of them. As a part of an embassy to India by Timurid leader Shah Rukh (1405–1447), 'Abd al-Razzaq mentioned naphtha-throwers mounted on elephants and a variety of pyrotechnics put on display. Roger Pauly has written that \"while gunpowder was primarily a Chinese innovation,\" the saltpeter that led to the invention of gunpowder may have arrived from India, although it is also likely that it originates indigenously in China.\n\nFirearms known as \"top-o-tufak\" also existed in the Vijayanagara Empire of India by as early as 1366 AD. By 1442 guns had a clearly felt presence in India as attested to by historical records. From then on the employment of gunpowder warfare in India was prevalent, with events such as the siege of Belgaum in 1473 AD by the Sultan Muhammad Shah Bahmani.\n\nIn Southeast Asia, invasion of Mongol to Java in 1293 may have brought firearms technology to Nusantara archipelago. By 1300s, Majapahit fleet has already using breech loading cannon called Cetbang as naval weapon. Cannons were used by the Ayutthaya Kingdom in 1352 during its invasion of the Khmer Empire. Within a decade large quantities of gunpowder could be found in the Khmer Empire. By the end of the century firearms were also used by the Trần dynasty.\n\nKorea began production of gunpowder during the years 1374–76. In the 14th century a Korean scholar named Choe Museon discovered a way to produce it after visiting China and bribing a merchant by the name of Li Yuan for the gunpowder formula. In 1377 he figured out how to extract potassium nitrate from the soil and subsequently invented the juhwa, Korea's first rocket, and further developments led to the birth of singijeons, Korean arrow rockets. The multiple rocket launcher known as hwacha (\"fire cart\" 火車) was developed from the juhwa and singijeon in Korea by 1409 during the Joseon Dynasty. Its inventors include Yi Do (이도, not to be mistaken for Sejong the Great) and Choi Hae-san (최해산, son of Choe Museon). However the first hwachas did not fire rockets, but utilized mounted bronze guns that shot iron-fletched darts. Rocket launching hwachas were developed in 1451 under the decree of King Munjong and his younger brother Pe. ImYung (Yi Gu, 임영대군 이구). This \"Munjong Hwacha\" is the well-known type today, and could fire 100 rocket arrows or 200 small Chongtong bullets at one time with changeable modules. At the time, 50 units were deployed in Hanseong (present-day Seoul), and another 80 on the northern border. By the end of 1451, hundreds of hwachas were deployed throughout Korea.\n\nNaval gunpowder weapons also appeared and were rapidly adopted by Korean ships for conflicts against Japanese pirates in 1380 and 1383. By 1410, 160 Korean ships were reported to have equipped artillery of some sort. Mortars firing thunder-crash bombs are known to have been used, and four types of cannons are mentioned: chonja (heaven), chija (earth), hyonja (black), and hwangja (yellow), but their specifications are unknown. These cannons typically shot wooden arrows tipped with iron, the longest of which were nine feet long, but stone and iron balls were sometimes used as well.\n\nFirearms seem to have been known in Japan around 1270 as proto-cannons invented in China, which the Japanese called teppō (鉄砲 lit. \"iron cannon\"). Gunpowder weaponry exchange between China and Japan was slow and only a small number of hand guns ever reached Japan. However the use of gunpowder bombs in the style of Chinese explosives is known to have occurred in Japan from at least the mid-15th century onward. The first recorded appearance of the cannon in Japan was in 1510 when a Buddhist priest presented Hōjō Ujitsuna with a teppō iron cannon he acquired during his travels in China. Firearms saw very little use in Japan until Portuguese matchlocks were introduced in 1543. During the Japanese invasions of Korea (1592-1598), the forces of Toyotomi Hideyoshi effectively utilized matchlock firearms against the Korean forces of Joseon, although they would ultimately be defeated and forced to withdraw from the Korean peninsula.\n\nThe 15th through 18th centuries saw widespread improvement in gunpowder technology. Military developments in Europe and the aggressive application of technological advances in this period is usually referred to as early modern warfare, when Europe gained a global advantage in deep-water warfare and fortress architecture. Eventually military science in Europe led to a marked technological departure from the rest of the world known as the Great Divergence, a term coined by Samuel P. Huntington. Gunpowder remained of central importance until it was replaced by more advanced explosives beginning in the 1860s.\n\nGun development and proliferation in China continued under the Ming dynasty. The success of its founder Zhu Yuanzhang, who declared his reign to be the era of Hongwu, or \"Great Martiality,\" has often been attributed to his effective use of guns. Early Ming military codes stipulated that ideally 10 percent of all soldiers should be gunners. By 1380 the Ming dynasty boasted around 130,000 gunners out of its 1.3 to 1.8 million strong army. Under the Hongwu Emperor's successors, the percentage climbed higher and by the 1440s it reached 20 percent. In 1466 the ideal composition was 30 percent. The Hongwu Emperor created a Bureau of Armaments (軍器局) which was tasked with producing every three years 3000 handheld bronze guns, 3000 signal cannons, and ammunition as well as accoutrements such as ramrods. His Armory Bureau (兵仗局) was responsible for producing types of guns known as \"great generals,\" \"secondary generals,\" \"tertiary generals,\" and \"gate-seizing generals.\" Other firearms such as \"miraculous [fire] lances,\" \"miraculous guns,\" and \"horse-beheading guns\" were also produced. It is unclear what proportion or how many of each type were actually manufactured. However most early Ming guns weighed only two to three kilograms while guns considered \"large\" at the time weighed around only seventy-five kilograms. A gun known as the \"Great Bowl-Mouth Tube\" (大碗口筒) dated to 1372 weighs only 15.75 kilograms and was 36.5 centimeters long, its muzzle 11 centimeters in diameter. Other excavated guns of this type range from 8.35 to 26.5 kilograms. While they were usually mounted on ships or gates they were also relatively small compared to the cannons of the 16th to 17th centuries associated with naval warfare. Ming sources suggest guns such as these shot stones and iron balls, but were primarily used against men rather than for causing structural damage to ships or walls. Accuracy was low and they were limited to a range of only 50 paces or so.\n\nDespite the relatively small size of Ming guns, some elements of gunpowder weapon design followed world trends. The growing length to muzzle bore ratio matched the rate at which European guns were developing up until the 1450s. The practice of corning gunpowder had been developed by 1370 for the purpose of increasing explosive power in land mines, and was arguably used in guns as well according to one record of a fire-tube shooting a projectile 457 meters, which was probably only possible at the time with the usage of corned powder. Around the same year Ming guns transitioned from using stone shots to iron ammunition, which has greater density and increased firearm power.\n\nGuns as well as other gunpowder weapons were used in abundance during the famous Battle of Lake Poyang which lasted from 30 August to 4 October 1363. There were at least a hundred vessels and approximately 500,000 combatants altogether involved, although traditional numbers have gone even higher. Poyang Lake was situated on a strategic location connecting the Yangtze with other river basins and in the early 1360s Zhu Yuanzhang held key garrisons on the lake, which he administered from Nanjing 560 kilometers downriver. Upstream was the state of Han (大漢; Pinyin: \"Dahan\", \"Great Han\") under Chen Youliang, who set out to wrest control of the lake from Zhu Yuanzhang. Chen's force consisted of \"tower ships\" designed for depositing soldiers on riverside city walls rather than waterborne combat, and the purpose of these ships was to capture the city of Nanchang, which guarded Lake Poyang from the south. This proved futile as the city defenders simply moved the walls back, and Chen was forced to personally lead an assault on the city gates, which was met with a counterattack with huochong (early Ming guns), and they were driven back. After this failure, Chen set up a blockade, determined to starve out the defenders, but a small fishing boat managed to slip out and reached Nanjing in time to warn Zhu Yuanzhang.\n\nZhu's fleet arrived at Poyang Lake on 29 August faced with Chen's larger force and was outnumbered three to two. According to one Ming source, Zhu's force arrived armed with \"fire bombs, fire guns, fire arrows, fire seeds [probably grenades], large and small fire lances, large and small 'commander' fire-tubes, large and small iron bombs, rockets.\" This shows that older gunpowder weapons co-existed alongside guns, and proto-guns such as fire lances were not supplanted until after early Ming. A new weapon called the \"No Alternative\" was also mentioned. The No Alternative was \"made from a circular reed mat about five inches around and seven feet long that was pasted over with red paper and bound together with silk and hemp— stuffed inside it was gunpowder twisted in with bullets and all kinds of [subsidiary] gunpowder weapons.\" It was hung from a pole on the foremast, and when an enemy ship came into close range, the fuse was lit, and the weapon would supposedly fall onto the enemy ship, at which point things inside shot out \"and burned everything to bits, with no hope of salvation.\" Zhu's fleet engaged Chen's under orders to \"get close to the enemy's ships and first set off gunpowder weapons (發火器), then bows and crossbows, and finally attack their ships with short range weapons.\" Fire bombs were hurled using naval trebuchets and the Ming succeeded in \"burning twenty or more enemy vessels and killing or drowning many enemy troops.\" Ming eventually came out victorious by ramming and burning the enemy fleet with fire ships. While guns were used during the battle, ultimately they were not pivotal to success, and the battle was won using incendiary weapons.\n\nIn 1358 at the Siege of Shaoxing the defenders \"used ... fire tubes to attack the enemy's advance guard\" against Ming. The siege was won by the defenders, whose \"fire tubes went off all at once, and the [attacker's] great army could not stand against them and had to withdraw.\" Ming began fielding cannons in greater proportions during the Siege of Suzhou in 1366, but they were relatively small and were used primarily for killing human beings rather than creating a breech in the city's defensive fortifications. Suzhou's fortifications were previously rebuilt in 1352 and contemporary documents of the city wall record a width of eleven meters at the base, five meters at the top, seven meters high, and seventeen kilometers all around. The walls were constructed using tamped earth covered with brick and sloped from bottom to top. Ming commander Xu Da ordered the army to set up a blockade. Watchtowers 13 meters high were constructed, which the \"Ming Veritable Records\" notes \"were placed bows and guns.\" Each of the 48 Ming divisions (衛) were equipped with 50 large and small \"general tubes\" (大小將軍筒) for a total of 2400 guns, and besieged the city. Large ones weighed only 80 kilograms or less and the majority were small ones which weighed a couple kilograms at most. The largest possibly a meter long with a muzzle diameter of 21 centimeters, but these would have been rare exceptions in the early Ming arsenal. The lack of larger siege weapons in China unlike the rest of the world where cannons grew larger and more potent has been attributed to the immense thickness of traditional Chinese walls, which Tonio Andrade suggests provided no incentive for creating larger cannons, since even industrial artillery had trouble overcoming them. Chinese walls during the Ming period continued the traditional building practices and nearly every prefectural and provincial capital was fortified with walls between 10 and 20 meters thick at the base and 5 to 10 meters wide at the top.\n\nEach division was also equipped with five Xiangyang Trebuchets and five \"Seven-Component Trebuchets\" (七梢炮), which were used to destroy wooden structure on the walls, but were unable to breech the walls themselves despite the fact that \"the noise of the guns and the paos went day and night and didn't stop.\" In a rare occurrence of Chinese history, the city defenses were eventually breached, but this happened through the gates, which were covered by an outwork, outer gate, and finally consisted of an inner gate. Rather than bombarding the entrance, the breach was made by traditional manual mining and battering. This was only possible because the defenders were already starving by mid-autumn of 1367 and unable to put up a proper resistance, succumbing to the onslaught of a frontal assault. The battle continued inside the city where Zhang Shicheng's remaining 20 thousand troops engaged in street to street combat until he fled from his palace. His wives and concubines burned themselves to death. Zhang then tried to commit suicide, but was captured and taken back to Nanjing as \"a guest.\"\n\nDespite the increasing quantity of guns fielded in battles and sieges, Ming cannons remained relatively small and limited to anti-personnel purposes. The peak of Chinese cannon development is exemplified by the muzzle loading wrought iron \"great general cannon\" (大將軍炮) which weighed up to 360 kilograms and could fire a 4.8 kilogram lead ball. Its heavier variant, the \"great divine cannon\" (大神銃), could weigh up to 600 kilograms and was capable of firing several iron balls and upward of a hundred iron shots at once. The great general and divine cannons were the last indigenous Chinese cannon designs prior to the incorporation of European models in the 16th century.\n\nThe development of large artillery pieces and larger guns began with Burgundy. Originally a minor power, it grew to become one of the most powerful states in 14th-century Europe, and a great innovator in siege warfare. The Duke of Burgundy, Philip the Bold (1363-1404), based his power on the effective use of big guns and promoted research and development in all aspects of gunpowder weaponry technology. Philip established manufacturers and employed more cannon casters than any European power before him, however he wasn't the first to build large guns. The first appeared in 1375 when a dozen or so smiths in Caen developed a 900 kilogram cannon which took six weeks to create. Whereas most European guns before 1370 weighed about 20 to 40 lbs (9–14 kg), the French siege of Château de Saint-Sauveur-le-Vicomte in 1375 during the Hundred Years War saw the use of guns weighing over a ton (900 kg), firing stone balls weighing over 100 lbs (45 kg). Philip used large guns to help the French capture the fortress of Odruik in 1377, which was held by the English at the time. These guns fired projectiles far larger than any that had been used before, and among the 140 cannons Philip brought to Odruik, 109 were large, with seven guns that could shoot projectiles as heavy as 90 kilograms. The cannons smashed the city walls, some going right through them, and Odruik surrendered, inaugurating a new era of artillery warfare. Burgundy's territories rapidly expanded using their new gun designs.\n\nEurope entered an arms race to build ever larger artillery pieces. Burgundy's guns continued to develop, and in the same year that Odruik fell, Philip's smith constructed a gun capable of shooting balls weighing 200 kilograms. In 1382 an \"incredibly huge bombard\" was aimed at Oudenaarde, its muzzle 60 inches around and 20 inches in diameter. One observer described it thus, \"One could hear it for five leagues in the daytime, and ten leagues at night, and it made such a huge noise that … it seemed as though all the demons of hell were present.\" By the early 15th century both French and English armies were equipped with larger pieces known as bombards, weighing up to 5 tons (4,535 kg) and firing balls weighing up to 300 lbs (136 kg). In 1404 a cannon was created with the inscription, \"I am named Katrin. Beware of what I hold. I punish injustice.\" In 1411 the cast iron cannon Faule Mette was created, and it was capable of shooting stone balls weighing 400 kilograms, but didn't very often. The artillery trains used by Henry V of England in the 1415 Siege of Harfleur and 1419 Siege of Rouen proved effective in breaching French fortifications, while artillery contributed to the victories of French forces under Joan of Arc in the Loire Campaign (1429). It wasn't just the English blasting their way through France either. Burgundy started by battering down the walls of Vellexon in 1409 and in 1411 they took Ham with only three shots from their bombard Griette. France eventually came around under the reforms of King Charles V (1422-1461), whose leadership made France the premier artillery force in Europe, and won the Hundred Years' War. Gun developments in France would prove extremely effective during the Italian wars of the 1490s. In 1431 a wrought-iron cannon was forged, weighing over 12,000 kilograms and could fire projectiles of 300 kilograms. It was called the Dulle Griet. These weapons were transformational for European warfare. A hundred years earlier the Frenchman Pierre Dubois wrote that a \"castle can hardly be taken within a year, and even if it does fall, it means more expenses for the king's purse and for his subjects than the conquest is worth,\" but by the 15th century European walls fell with the utmost regularity.\n\nThe Ottoman Empire was also developing their own artillery pieces. Mehmed the Conqueror (1432-1481) was determined to procure large cannons for the purpose of conquering Constantinople and paid handsomely as well as allowed creative autonomy for cannon makers. One of the cannon makers that responded to his call was a Hungarian named Urban, who left Byzantium after being denied a raise by the Byzantine emperor. Urban labored for four months to create a six meter long cannon, which required hundreds of pounds of gunpowder to fire, and its stone projectiles weighed between 550 and 800 kilograms. The gun's projectiles were reported to have flown for a mile before landing, and shook the entire ground when fired, the roar blasting four miles away. It had to be transported by 30 wagons pulled by 60 oxen, with the assistance of 200 handlers. An additional 50 carpenters and 200 laborers helped in the transport by leveling terrain and building bridges. During the actual siege of Constantinople the gun proved to be somewhat underwhelming. The aiming process was laborious and after each shot it required hot oil ointment for cooling. Its rate of fire was once every three hours, and may have even suffered damage from cracks early on, never to be repaired.\n\nFortunately for the Ottomans it wasn't Mehmed's only cannon. Dozens of other large cannons alongside 500 smaller cannons bombarded Constantinople's walls in their weakest sections for 55 days. A Greek contemporary, Kritoboulos, describes the scene thus, \"The stone, borne with tremendous force and velocity, hit the wall, which it immediately shook and knocked down, and was itself broken into many fragments and scattered, hurling the pieces everywhere and killing those who happened by be near by. Sometimes it demolished a whole section, and sometimes a half-section, and sometimes a larger or smaller section of a tower or turret or battlement. And there was no part of the wall strong enough or resistant enough or thick enough to be able to withstand it, or to wholly resist such force and such a blow of the stone cannon-ball.\" Mehmed's smaller artillery pieces also proved effective. Constantinople's defenders wielded their own formidable guns and \"fired … five or ten bullets at a time, each about the size of a … walnut, and having a great power of penetration. If one of these hit an armed man it would go right through his shield and his body and go on to hit anyone else who happened to be in his way, and even a third, until the force of the powder diminished; so one shot might hit two or three men.\" Despite the fierce defense, the city's fortifications were ultimately overwhelmed in a final assault and the sultan won the siege.\n\nWhile China was the birthplace of gunpowder the guns there remained relatively small and light, weighing less than 80 kilograms or less for the large ones, and only a couple kilograms at most for the small ones during the early Ming era. Guns themselves had proliferated throughout China and become a common sight during sieges, so the question has arisen then why large guns were not first developed in China. According to Tonio Andrade, this wasn't a matter of metallurgy, which was sophisticated in China, and the Ming dynasty did construct large guns in the 1370s, but never followed up afterwards. Nor was it the lack of warfare, which other historians have suggested to be the case, but does not stand up to scrutiny as walls were a constant factor of war which stood in the way of many Chinese armies since time immemorial into the twentieth century. The answer Andrade provides is simply that Chinese walls were much less vulnerable to bombardment. Andrade argues that traditional Chinese walls were built differently from medieval European walls in ways which made them more resistant to cannon fire.\n\nChinese walls were bigger than medieval European walls. In the mid-twentieth century a European expert in fortification commented on their immensity: \"in China … the principal towns are surrounded to the present day by walls so substantial, lofty, and formidable that the medieval fortifications of Europe are puny in comparison.\" Chinese walls were thick. Ming prefectural and provincial capital walls were ten to twenty meters thick at the base and five to ten meters at the top. \n\nIn Europe the height of wall construction was reached under the Roman Empire, whose walls often reached ten meters in height, the same as many Chinese city walls, but were only 1.5 to 2.5 meters thick. Rome's Servian Walls reached 3.6 and 4 meters in thickness and 6 to 10 meters in height. Other fortifications also reached these specifications across the empire, but all these paled in comparison to contemporary Chinese walls, which could reach a thickness of 20 meters at the base in extreme cases. Even the walls of Constantinople which have been described as \"the most famous and complicated system of defence in the civilized world,\" could not match up to a major Chinese city wall. Had both the outer and inner walls of Constantinople been combined, they would have only reached roughly a bit more than a third the width of a major wall in China. According to Philo the width of a wall had to be 4.5 meters thick to be able to withstand artillery. European walls of the 1200s and 1300s could reach the Roman equivalents but rarely exceeded them in length, width, and height, remaining around two meters thick. It is apt to note that when referring to a very thick wall in medieval Europe, what is usually meant is a wall of 2.5 meters in width, which would have been considered thin in a Chinese context. There are some exceptions such as the Hillfort of Otzenhausen, a Celtic ringfort with a thickness of forty meters in some parts, but Celtic fort-building practices died out in the early medieval period. Andrade goes on to note that the walls of the \"marketplace\" of Chang'an were thicker than the walls of major European capitals. \n\nAside from their immense size, Chinese walls were also structurally different from the ones built in medieval Europe. Whereas European walls were mostly constructed of stone interspersed with gravel or rubble filling and bonded by limestone mortar, Chinese walls had tamped earthen cores which absorbed the energy of artillery shots. Walls were constructed using wooden frameworks which were filled with layers of earth tamped down to a highly compact state, and once that was completed the frameworks were removed for use in the next wall section. Starting from the Song dynasty these walls were improved with an outer layer of bricks or stone to prevent corrosion, and during the Ming, earthworks were interspersed with stone and rubble. Most Chinese walls were also sloped rather than vertical to better deflect projectile energy.\n\nThe Chinese Wall Theory essentially rests on a cost benefit hypothesis, where the Ming recognized the highly resistant nature of their walls to structural damage, and could not imagine any affordable development of the guns available to them at the time to be capable of breaching said walls. Even as late as the 1490s a Florentine diplomat considered the French claim that \"their artillery is capable of creating a breach in a wall of eight feet in thickness\" to be ridiculous and the French \"braggarts by nature.\" In fact \"twentieth\" century explosive shells had some difficulty creating a breach in tamped earthen walls. \n\nAndrade goes on to question whether or not Europeans would have developed large artillery pieces in the first place had they faced the more formidable Chinese style walls, coming to the conclusion that such exorbitant investments in weapons unable to serve their primary purpose would not have been ideal. Yet Chinese walls do not fully explain the divergence in gun development as European guns grew not only bigger, but more effective as well. By 1490 the European gun had achieved the basic form it would take for the next three centuries, during which it would dominate the fields of warfare. The Classic Gun had arrived, and in the 1510s and 1520s when the Chinese encountered European firearms, they fully recognized they were superior to their own.\n\nAsianist Kenneth Chase offers another theory as to why gun development stagnated during the Ming dynasty. Chase argues that guns were not particularly useful against China's traditional enemies: horse nomads. Guns were supposedly problematic to deploy against nomads because of their size and slow speed, drawing out supply chains, and creating logistical challenges. Theoretically, the more mobile nomads took the initiative in sallying, retreating, and engaging at will. Chinese armies therefore relied less heavily on guns in warfare than Europeans, who fought large infantry battles and sieges which favored guns, or so Chase argues.\n\nHowever, the Chase hypothesis has been refuted based on observations made by Tonio Andrade, who notes that the Asian nomad argument becomes problematic when viewed through a Chinese perspective. For the Chinese themselves considered guns to be highly valuable against nomads. During the Ming-Mongol wars of the 1300s and early 1400s guns were utilized, notably in defending against a Mongol invasion in 1449, and guns were in high demand along the northern borders where gun emplacements were common. Several sources make it clear that Chinese military leaders found guns to be highly effective against nomads throughout the 15th and 16th centuries. The military scholar Weng Wanda goes as far as to claim that only with firearms could one hope to succeed against the fast moving Mongols, and purchased special guns for both the Great Wall defenses and offensive troops who fought in the steppes. Andrade also points out that Chase downplays the amount of warfare going on outside of the northern frontier, specifically southern China where huge infantry battles and sieges such as in Europe were the norm. In 1368 the Ming army invaded Sichuan, Mongolia, and Yunnan. Although little mention of firearm is used in accounts of the Mongolia campaign, Ming cannons readily routed the war elephants of Yunnan, and in the case of Sichuan, both sides employed equally potent firearms. When the Ming founder Zhu Yuanzhang died, the civil war which ensued had Chinese armies fighting one another, again with equally powerful firearms. After the usurper Yongle's victory, the Ming embarked upon yet another five expeditions into Mongolia alongside an invasion of Dai Viet, many of their troops wielding firearms. In 1414 the Ming army clashed with an Oirat force near the Tula River and frightened them so much with their guns that the Oirats fled without their spare horses, only to be ambushed by concealed Chinese guns. According to a Chinese observer the Oirats avoided battle several days later, \"fearing that the guns had arrived again.\" In Vietnam, as with Yunnan, the war elephants fared poorly and were defeated with a combination of arrows and firearms. Chinese firearms were used in defensive fortifications to some effect, but were ineffective at targeting individual targets such as Vietnamese guerillas presented themselves.\n\nChase's argument has also been criticized by Stephen Morillo for its reliance on a simple cause and effect analysis. Alternatively Morillo suggests that the major difference between Chinese and European weapon development was economic. Within Morillo's framework, European weapons were more competitive due to private manufacturing whereas Chinese weapons were manufactured according to government specifications. Although generally true, Peter Lorge points out that gun specifications were widespread in China, and ironically the true gun was first developed during the Song dynasty, when guns were the exclusive enterprise of the government, suggesting that the economics of production were less influential on gun development than assumed. In contrast, less innovation occurred during the Ming dynasty when most of production was shifted to the domain of private artisans. Andrade concludes that although the Chase hypothesis should not be discarded outright, it does not offer a full explanation for the stagnation of firearm development in China.\n\nThe star fort, also known as the bastion fort, \"trace italienne\", or renaissance fortress, was a style of fortification that became popular in Europe during the 16th century. As a response to gunpowder artillery, European fortifications began displaying architectural principles such as lower and thicker walls in the mid-1400s. Cannon towers were built with artillery rooms where cannons could discharge fire from slits in the walls. However this proved problematic as the slow rate of fire, reverberating concussions, and noxious fumes produced greatly hindered defenders. Gun towers also limited the size and number of cannon placements because the rooms could only be built so big. Notable surviving artillery towers include a seven layer defensive structure built in 1480 at Fougères in Brittany, and a four layer tower built in 1479 at Querfurth in Saxony. Eventually defensive artillery towers gave way to the star fort's angle bastions. The bastion and star fort was developed in Italy, where the Florentine engineer Giuliano da Sangallo (1445-1516) compiled a comprehensive defensive plan using the geometric bastion and full \"trace italienne\" that became widespread in Europe. The main distinguishing features of the star fort were its angle bastions, each placed to support their neighbor with lethal crossfire, covering all angles, making them extremely difficult to engage with and attack. Angle bastions consisted of two faces and two flanks. Artillery positions positioned at the flanks could fire parallel into the opposite bastion's line of fire, thus providing two lines of cover fire against an armed assault on the wall, and preventing mining parties from finding refuge. Meanwhile, artillery positioned on the bastion platform could fire frontally from the two faces, also providing overlapping fire with the opposite bastion. Overlapping mutually supporting defensive fire was the greatest advantage enjoyed by the star fort. As a result, sieges lasted longer and became more difficult affairs. By the 1530s the bastion fort had become the dominant defensive structure in Italy. Outside Europe, the star fort became an \"engine of European expansion,\" and acted as a force multiplier so that small European garrisons could hold out against numerically superior forces. Wherever star forts were erected the natives experienced great, but not insurmountable difficulty, in uprooting European invaders.\n\nGun development and design in Europe reached its \"classic\" form in the 1480s. The so-called Classic Gun is referred to thus for its longer, lighter, more efficient, and more accurate design compared to its predecessors only three decades prior. Indeed, cannons of the 1480s show little difference and surprising similarity with cannons three centuries later in the 1750s. This 300-year period during which the classic cannon dominated gives it its moniker. The early classical European guns are exemplified by two cannons from 1488 now preserved in a plaza in Neuchâtel, Switzerland. The Neuchâtel guns are 224 centimeters long, with a bore of 6.2 centimeters and the other is slightly longer, 252 centimeters, with the same bore size. Classical guns such as these are differentiated from older firearms by an assortment of improvements. Their longer length-to-bore ratio imparts more energy into the shot, enabling the projectile to shoot further. Not only longer, they were also lighter as the barrel walls were made thinner to allow for faster dissipation of heat. Classical guns also no longer needed the help of a wooden plug to load since they offered a tighter fit between projectile and barrel, further increasing the accuracy of gunpowder warfare. Classical guns were deadlier due to the combination of new weapon developments such as gunpowder corning and the iron shot, which had been gradually adopted in Europe during the 1400s. When these guns reached China in the 1510s, the Chinese were highly impressed by them, primarily for their longer and thinner barrels.\n\nThe two primary theories for the appearance of the classic gun involve the development of gunpowder corning and a new method for casting guns. The corning hypothesis stipulates that the longer barrels came about as a reaction to the development of corned gunpowder. Around the late 14th century European powdermakers began adding liquid to the constituents of gunpowder, which reduced dust, and with it the risk of explosion during manufacture. The powder makers would then shape the resulting paste of moistened gunpowder—known as mill cake—into \"corns\" or granules to allow it to dry. Not only did \"corned\" powder keep better, because of its reduced surface area, but gunners also found that it was more powerful and easier to load into guns. The main advantage of corning is that the flame lights all the granules when the gunpowder is lit, spreading between them before significant gas expansion has occurred. Without corning, much of the powder away from the initial flame would be blown out of the barrel before it burnt. The size of the granules varied for different types of gun. Prior to corning, gunpowder would frequently demix into its constitutive components and was an unreliable substance for use in guns. The same granulation process is used nowadays in the pharmaceutical industry to ensure that each tablet contains the same proportion of active ingredient. Before long, powdermakers standardized the process by forcing mill cake through sieves instead of corning powder by hand. The faster gunpowder reaction was suitable for smaller guns, since large ones had a tendency to crack, and the more controlled reaction allowed large guns to have longer, thinner walls.\n\nAlthough the logical follow through is sound, the corning hypothesis has been refuted for two reasons. One, the powder makers were probably more worried about spoilage than the effect of corned gunpowder on guns, and two, corning as a practice had existed in China since the 1370s. In Europe corning arose as a response to the difficulty of obtaining pure saltpeter, specifically saltpeter consisting of potassium nitrate, rather than sodium nitrate or calcium nitrate, the latter two of which absorb water vapor more readily than potassium nitrate. Thus corning was an imperative to producing reliable weaponized gunpowder. Supposedly this was much less problematic in Asia, where pure saltpeter was more readily available and easily manufactured. In China gunpowder corning had been practiced since the 1370s for the purpose of strengthening the explosive power of mines, since gunpowder corns provided more space required for a rapid combustion. Corned powder might also have been used in guns based on a record of a fire-tube shooting a projectile 457 meters, a distance probably only possible with the aid of corned powder at the time.\n\nThe second theory comes from Kay Smith who points out that key to developing the classic gun may be a new method of gun casting, muzzle side up. Smith observes: \"The surviving pieces of ordnance from earlier in the 15th century are big pieces with large bore sizes. They do not look like the long thin gun.… Essentially they are parallel-sided tubes with flat ends. The explanation is, probably, that they were cast muzzle down in the traditional bell-founding method whereas the long thin guns were cast muzzle up.… Perhaps this marks the real 'revolution' in artillery. Once the technique of casting muzzle up with the attendant advantages, and it is not clear what those are at present, had been mastered by cannon founders, the way was open for the development of the 'classic' form of artillery.\" However, Smith himself states that it is not clear what advantages this technique would have conferred, despite its widespread adoption.\n\nAcross the 15th and 16th centuries there were primarily two different types of manufactured cannons. The wrought iron cannon and the cast-bronze cannon. Wrought iron guns were structurally composed of two layers: an inner tube of iron staves held together in a tight fit by an outer case of iron hoops. Bronze cannons on the other hand were cast in one piece similar to bells. The technique used in casting bronze cannons was so similar to the bell that the two were often looked upon as a connected enterprise. Church bells in the age of Catholic authority were viewed as idolatrous and met their end as raw metal used for casting cannons.\n\nBoth iron and bronze cannons had their advantages and disadvantages. Forged iron cannons were far cheaper, up to ten times so, than bronze cannons, but more unstable due to their piece built nature. Iron cannons tended to burst apart, sometimes killing or severely maiming their operators. Successive firings took their toll on iron cannons as individual pieces were shook loose. Bronze cannons simply cracked. Even without use, iron cannons were liable to rust away. Bronze cannons did not rust. Another less practical reason for the dominance of bronze cannons was their aesthetic appeal. Because cannons were so important as displays of power and prestige, rulers liked to commission bronze cannons, which could be sculpted into fanciful designs such as flute columns, lions' and serpents' mouths, containing artistic motifs or symbols. It was for these reasons that the cast-bronze cannon became the preferred type by the late 1400s. By the late 1500s only small breech-loading pieces were made of wrought iron. Iron cannons would regain ground in the late 1500s as improved casting techniques allowed cast-iron cannons to become more reliable, although still inferior to the safer bronze cannons.\n\nAccording to a metallographic study by Tetsuo Shoji on a Chinese cannon forged in 1377, cast steel technology was already available for Chinese cannon making in the early Ming dynasty.\n\nAlthough few in number there were some exceptions to the bronze and iron paradigm. Composite metal cannons were produced in the Ming and Qing dynasties during the 17th century. In China, the Ming dynasty started producing smoothbore breech loading cast-bronze cannons after the European fashion no later than 1620. However, in addition to European expertise and design, the Chinese had an advantage in their long history of metal casting practices. Two decades after the Ming started manufacturing Dutch style cannons known to the Chinese as \"red barbarian cannons\" (紅夷炮 hongyipao), Ming foundries merged native casting technology with improved cannon designs to create a distinctive cannon known as the \"Dingliao grand general.\" Through combining the advanced cast-iron technique of southern China and the iron-bronze composite barrels invented in northern China, the Dingliao grand general cannons exemplified the best of both iron and bronze cannon designs. Unlike traditional iron and bronze cannons, the Dingliao grand general'rs inner barrel was made of iron, while the exterior of brass. Scholar Huang Yi-long describes the process:\n\nThe resulting bronze-iron composite cannons were superior to iron or bronze cannons in many respects. They were lighter, stronger, longer lasting, and able to withstand more intensive explosive pressure. Chinese artisans also experimented with other variants such as cannons featuring wrought iron cores with cast iron exteriors. While inferior to their bronze-iron counterparts, these were considerably cheaper and more durable than standard iron cannons. Both types met with success and were considered \"among the best in the world\" during the 17th century. The Chinese composite metal casting technique was effective enough that Portuguese imperial officials sought to employ Chinese gunsmiths for their cannon foundries in Goa, so that they could impart their methods for Portuguese weapons manufacturing.\n\nSoon after the Ming started producing the composite metal Dingliao grand generals in 1642, Beijing was captured by the Manchu Qing dynasty and along with it all of northern China. The Manchu elite did not concern themselves directly with guns and their production, preferring instead to delegate the task to Chinese craftsmen, who produced for the Qing a similar composite metal cannon known as the \"Shenwei grand general.\" However, after the Qing gained hegemony over East Asia in the mid-1700s, the practice of casting composite metal cannons fell into disuse until the dynasty faced external threats once again in the Opium War of 1840, at which point smoothbore cannons were already starting to become obsolete as a result of rifled barrels.\n\nThe concept of composite metal cannons is not exclusive to China. Although the southern Chinese started making cannons with iron cores and bronze outer shells as early as the 1530s, they were followed soon after by the Gujarats, who experimented with it in 1545, the English at least by 1580, and Hollanders in 1629. However the effort required to produce these weapons prevented them from mass production.The Europeans essentially treated them as experimental products, resulting in very few surviving pieces today. Of the currently known extant composite metal cannons, there are 2 English, 2 Dutch, 12 Gujarati, and 48 from the Ming-Qing period.\n\nThe arquebus, derived from the German \"Hackenbüchse\", was a form of handgun that appeared in Germany during the late 15th century. Although the term \"arquebus\" was applied to many different forms of firearms from the 15th to 17th centuries, it was originally used to describe \"a hand-gun with a hook-like projection or lug on its under surface, useful for steadying it against battlements or other objects when firing.\" These \"hook guns\" were in their earliest forms defensive weapons mounted on German city walls in the early 1400s, but by the late 1400s had transitioned into handheld firearms, with heavier variants known as \"muskets\" that were fired from resting Y-shaped supports appearing by the early 1500s. The musket was able to penetrate all forms of armor available at the time, making armor obsolete, and as a consequence the heavy musket as well. Although there is relatively little to no difference in design between arquebus and musket except in size and strength, it was the term \"musket\" which remained in use up into the 1800s. It may not be completely inaccurate to suggest that the musket was in its fabrication simply a larger arquebus. At least on one occasion the musket and arquebus have been used interchangeably to refer to the same weapon, and even referred to as an \"arquebus musket.\" A Habsburg commander in the mid-1560s once referred to muskets as \"double arquebuses.\" The definition of arquebus and similar firearms is therefore quite convoluted as the term has been applied to different sorts of firearms as well as acquiring several names like \"hackbut,\" \"harquebus\", \"schiopo,\" \"sclopus,\" \"tüfenk\", \"tofak\", \"matchlock\", and \"firelock\". Some say that the hackbut was a forerunner of the arquebus.\n\nThe \"matchlock\" firing mechanism became a common term for the arquebus after it was added to the firearm. Prior to the appearance of the matchlock, handguns were fired from the chest, tucked under one arm, while the other arm maneuvered a hot pricker to the touch hole to ignite the gunpowder. The matchlock changed this by adding a firing mechanism consisting of two parts, the match, and the lock. The lock mechanism held within a clamp a two to three feet long length of smoldering rope soaked in saltpeter, which was the match. Connected to the lock lever was a trigger, which lowered the match into a priming pan when pulled, igniting the priming powder, causing a flash to travel through the touch hole, also igniting the gunpowder within the barrel, and propelling the bullet out the muzzle. While matchlocks provided a crucial advantage by allowing the user to aim the firearm using both hands, it was also awkward to utilize. To avoid accidentally igniting the gunpowder the match had to be detached while loading the gun. In some instances the match would also go out, so both ends of the match were kept lit. This proved cumbersome to maneuver as both hands were required to hold the match during removal, one end in each hand. The procedure was so complex that a 1607 drill manual published by Jacob de Gheyn in the Netherlands listed 28 steps just to fire and load the gun. In 1584 the Ming general Qi Jiguang composed an 11 step song to practice the procedure in rhythm: \"One, clean the gun. Two pour the powder. Three tamp the powder down. Four drop the pellet. Five drive the pellet down. Six put in paper (stopper). Seven drive the paper down. Eight open the flashpan cover. Nine pour in the flash powder. Ten close the flashpan, and clamp the fuse. Eleven, listen for the signal, then open the flashpan cover. Aiming at the enemy, raise your gun and fire.\" Reloading a gun during the 16th century took anywhere from between 20 seconds to a minute under the most ideal conditions.\n\nThe arquebus is considered to be the first portable \"shoulder\" arms firearm. Arquebuses were used as early as 1472 by the Spanish and Portuguese at Zamora. Likewise, the Castilians used arquebuses as well in 1476. In 1496 Philip Monch of the Palatinate composed an illustrated \"Buch der Strynt un(d) Buchsse(n)\" on guns and \"harquebuses.\" The Mamluks in particular were conservatively against the incorporation of gunpowder weapons. When faced with cannons and arquebuses wielded by the Ottomans they criticized them thus, \"God curse the man who invented them, and God curse the man who fires on Muslims with them.\" Insults were also levied against the Ottomans for having \"brought with you this contrivance artfully devised by the Christians of Europe when they were incapable of meeting the Muslim armies on the battlefield.\" Similarly, musketeers and musket-wielding infantrymen were despised in society by the feudal knights, even until the time of Cervantes (1547–1616 AD). Eventually the Mamluks under Qaitbay were ordered in 1489 to train in the use of al-bunduq al-rasas (arquebuses). However, in 1514 an Ottoman army of 12,000 soldiers wielding arquebuses still managed to rout a much larger Mamluk force. The arquebus had become a common infantry weapon by the 16th century due to its relative cheapness - a helmet, breastplate and pike cost about three and a quarter ducats while an arquebus only a little over one ducat. Another advantage of arquebuses over other equipment and weapons was its short training period. While a bow potentially took years to master, an effective arquebusier could be trained in just two weeks. According to a 1571 report by Vincentio d'Alessandri, Persian arms including arquebuses \"were superior and better tempered than those of any other nation.\"\n\nIn the early 1500s a larger arquebus known as the musket appeared. The heavy musket, while being rather awkward to handle, requiring a fork rest to fire properly, had the advantage of being able to penetrate the best armor within a range of 180 meters, regular armor at 365 meters, and an unarmed man at 548 meters. However, both the musket and arquebus were effectively limited to a range of only 90 to 185 meters regardless of armor since they were incredibly inaccurate. According to some sources, a smoothbore musket was completely incapable of hitting a man sized target past the 73 meter mark. While rifled guns did exist at this time in the form of grooves cut into the interior of a barrel, these were considered specialist weapons and limited in number. In some aspects this made the smoothbore musket an inferior weapon compared to the bow. The average Mamluk archer for example was capable of hitting targets only 68 meters far away but could keep up a pace of six to eight shots per minute. In comparison, sixteenth-century matchlocks fired off one shot every several minutes, and much less when taking into consideration misfires and malfunctions which occurred up to half the time. This is not to say that firearms of the 16th century were inferior to the bow and arrow, for it could better penetrate armor and required less training, but the disadvantages of the musket were very real, and it would not be until the 1590s that archers were for the most part phased out of \"European\" warfare. This was possibly a consequence of the increased effectiveness of musket warfare due to the rise of volley fire in Europe as first applied by the Dutch. At this time gunners in European armies reached as high as 40 percent of infantry forces.\n\nAs the virtues of the musket became apparent it was quickly adopted throughout Eurasia so that by 1560 even in China generals were giving praise to the new weapon. Qi Jiguang, a noted partisan of the musket, gave a eulogy on the effectiveness of the gun in 1560:\n\nOther East Asian powers such as Đại Việt also adopted the matchlock musket in quick order. Đại Việt in particular was considered by the Ming to have produced the most advanced matchlocks in the world during the 17th century, surpassing even Ottoman, Japanese, and European firearms. European observers of the Trịnh–Nguyễn War also corroborated with the Ming in the proficiency of matchlock making by the Vietnamese. The Vietnamese matchlock was said to have been able to pierce several layers of iron armour, kill two to five men in one shot, yet also fire quietly for a weapon of its caliber.\n\nThe volley fire, specifically the musketry volley technique, also known as the countermarch, is in its simplest form the idea of having soldiers shoot in turns. Although volley fire is most often associated with firearms, the concept of continuous and concerted rotating fire was practiced using crossbows since at least the Tang dynasty. Both the encyclopedic text written during the Tang dynasty known as the \"Tongdian\" and the official \"History of Song\" contain mentions of the volley fire technique and elaborate on its usage. They contained two widely known illustrations of the volley fire formation from both the Tang and Song dynasties respectively. In 1131, crossbowmen employed the volley fire tactic to great effect under Song generals Wu Jie (吳玠) and his younger brother Wu Lin (吳璘) during the Jin-Song Wars. In Europe volley fire was also used by archers, for example at the Battle of Agincourt in 1415.\n\nThe earliest possible employment of volley fire for firearms occurred in late-14th-century China during a military conflict between Ming and Mong Mao forces. Volley fire was also possibly implemented with firearms in 1414 during the Yongle Emperor's campaigns against the Mongols, and possibly again in another expedition in 1422. However the language used in these sources is unclear as to whether or not \"repeating\" fire was part of the technique implemented. For example, during the 1388 anti-insurrection war waged against the Mong Mao by the Ming general Mu Ying, the Ming troops equipped with guns and fire arrows were arrayed in three lines. The general Mu Ying explained this was so that \"when the elephants advance, the front line of guns and arrows will shoot all at once. If they do not retreat, the next line will continue this. If they still do not retreat, then the third line will continue this.\" When the armored war elephants broke into a run, charging the Ming lines, the Ming forces stood their ground, \"shooting arrows and stones, the noise shaking the mountains and vallies. The elephants shook with fear and ran.\" According to the \"Ming Shilu\", half the elephants were killed while 37 were captured, and of the 100,000 strong insurrection force, at least 30,000 were killed, and 10,000 were captured. Andrade and other historians have interpreted this passage as evidence of volley fire, however he admits that it is ambiguous as to whether or not the Ming lines practiced repeated fire and reloading, so at best it can only be considered a limited form of volley fire.\n\nThe \"Ming Shilu\" goes on to mention another possible instance of volley fire, this time during the Yongle Emperor's campaigns against the Mongols. In 1414 \"the commander-in-chief (都督) Zhu Chong led Lü Guang and others directly to the fore, where they assaulted the enemy by firing firearms and guns continuously and in succession. Countless enemies were killed.\" In this case the source makes no mention of taking turns or forming lines, but Andrade believes that since the Ming were facing horseback Mongol forces, it would have been impossible to keep continuous fire in the face of a cavalry charge had ordered ranks of gunners not been implemented. The same rationality is applied to another passage on the 1422 expedition, where \"the emperor ordered that all the generals train their troops outside each encampment by arranging their formations so that the gunnery units (神機銃) occupied the foremost positions and the cavalry units occupied the rear. He ordered officers to exercise and drill in their free time (暇閑操習). He admonished them as follows: \"A formation that is dense is solid, while an advance force is sparse, and when they arrive at the gates of war and it's time to fight, then first use the guns to destroy their advance guard and then use cavalry to rush their solidity. In this way there is nothing to fear.\"\" Some historians have extrapolated from this that the Ming forces were using volley fire with firearms since their opponents were cavalry units, and hence impossible to stop with slow firing hand cannons unless it was through continuous volley fire, much less with a thin advance guard of gunnery units. According to Wang Zhaochun, \"the meaning of this is that when fighting, the gun troops line up in front of the entire formation, and between them there must be a certain amount of space, so that they can load bullets and powder and employ shooting by turns and in concert to destroy the enemy advance guard. Once the enemy has been thrown into chaos, the rear densely arrayed cavalry troops together come forth in great vigor, striking forth with irresistible force.\" Even if Wang is correct, the evidence is still inconclusive.\n\nThe volley tactic next appeared in early-16th-century Europe when the Ottoman Janissaries clashed with European forces at the Battle of Mohács on 29 August 1526. The Janissaries equipped with 2000 \"tüfenks\" (usually translated as musket) \"formed nine consecutive rows and they fired their weapons row by row,\" in a \"kneeling or standing position without the need for additional support or rest.\" Contrary to the popular belief that the Ottomans' success at Mohács was due to their artillery, a view which many later historians have supported, contemporary European and Ottoman sources on the battle attribute their success to the Janissaries' successful deployment of firearms. However the Janissaries' prowess declined early in the 17th century as troop standards dropped and the drill was abandoned. According to the author of \"The Laws of the Janissaries (Kavanin-i Yenigeriyan)\", by 1606 members of the Janissaries were faced with supply issues so that they \"were no longer given powder for the drills and that the soldiers used the wick for their candles and not for their muskets.\"\n\nBy 1548 the Ming had started fielding arquebuses after procuring knowledge of the weapon from the pirate network at Shuangyu. The military leader Qi Jiguang, who was at first ambivalent towards matchlocks, became one of the primary advocates for their incorporation into the Ming army later on in his life. After having suffered his first defeats at the hands of the wokou, he realized the vital role of this new weapon in combating piracy, for it out ranged their heaviest arrows. By 1560 he had invented a style of musket warfare similar to the Tang crossbow volley technique which he described the same year in his magnum opus, the \"Jixiao Xinshu\":\n\nQi Jiguang further elaborates on the five layered musket volley formation:\n\nIf melee weapons could not be brought into combat, such as during long range defense, Qi recommended waiting \"until the face-the-enemy signal [is given], and then, whether from behind wooden stockades, or from moat banks, or from below abatis (拒馬), [they] open up on the enemy, firing by turns (更番射賊). Those who are empty reload; those who are full fire again. While the ones who have fired are loading, those who are full then fire again. In this way, all day long, the firing of guns will not be lacking, and there must be no firing to the point of exhaustion [of ammo] and no slipups with guns.\" In 1571 Qi prescribed an ideal infantry regiment of 1080 arquebusiers out of 2700 men, or 40 percent of the infantry force. However it is not known how well this was actually implemented, and there is evidence that Qi was met with stiff resistance to the incorporation of newer gunpowder weapons in northern China while he was stationed there. He writes that \"in the north soldiers are stupid and impatient, to the point that they cannot see the strength of the musket, and they insist on holding tight to their fast lances (a type of fire lance), and although when comparing and vying on the practice field the musket can hit the bullseye ten times better than the fast-lance and five times better than the bow and arrow, they refuse to be convinced.\"\n\nThe musket volley fire technique may have been used in Japan as well as early as 1575 at the Battle of Nagashino by Oda Nobunaga's arquebusiers. But this has been called into dispute in recent years by J.S.A. Elisonas and J.P. Lamers in their translation of \"The Chronicle of Oda Nobunaga\" by Ota Gyuichi. In Lamers' \"Japonius\" he says that \"whether or not Nobunaga actually operated with three rotating ranks cannot be determined on the basis of reliable evidence.\" They claim that the version of events describing volley fire was written several years after the battle, and an earlier account says to the contrary that guns were fired en masse. However both Korean and Chinese sources note that Japanese gunners were making use of volley fire during the Japanese invasions of Korea from 1592–98.\n\nFrederick Lewis Taylor claims that a kneeling volley fire may have been employed by Prospero Colonna's arquebusiers as early as the Battle of Bicocca (1522). However this has been called into question by Tonio Andrade who believes this is an over interpretation as well as mis-citation of a passage by Charles Oman suggesting that the Spanish arquebusiers kneeled to reload, when in fact Oman never made such a claim. European gunners might have implemented the volley fire to some extent since at least 1579 when the Englishman Thomas Digges suggested that musketeers should, \"after the old Romane manner make three or four several fronts, with convenient spaces for the first to retire and unite himselfe with the second, and both these if occasion so require, with the third; the shot [musketeers] having their convenient lanes continually during the fight to discharge their peces.\" The Spanish too displayed some awareness of the volley technique and described it in a military manual dating to 1586: \"Start with three files of five soldiers each, separated one from the other by fifteen paces, and they should comport themselves not with fury but with calm skillfulness [con reposo diestramente] such that when the first file has finished shooting they make space for the next (which is coming up to shoot) without turning face, countermarching [contrapassando] to the left but showing the enemy only the side of their bodies, which is the narrowest of the body, and [taking their place at the rear] about one to three steps behind, with five or six pellets in their mouths, and two lighted matchlock fuses … and they load [their pieces] promptly … and return to shoot when it's their turn again.\"\n\nRegardless, it is clear that the concept of volley fire had existed in Europe for quite some time during the 16th century, but it was in the Netherlands during the 1590s that the musketry volley really took off. The key to this development was William Louis, Count of Nassau-Dillenburg who in 1594 described the technique in a letter to his cousin:\n\nFor many Europeans this new way of conducting warfare seemed ridiculous, so that in the beginning they were openly mocked. But the Dutch army continued to drill the volley under both Louis and his cousin Maurice, Prince of Orange, so that it became second nature. One Dutch historian recounts the exercises in which regiments marched \"man by man bringing the rearmost to the front and the frontmost to the rear.… The beginnings were very difficult, and many people felt, because it was all so unusual, that it was odd and ridiculous [lacherlich]. They were mocked by the enemy, but with time the great advantages of the practices became clear … and eventually they were copied by other nations.\" Soon the reorganized Dutch army displayed the virtues of the countermarch volley and the practice spread across Europe. An important component to the successful deployment of volley fire was the drill, which according to Geoffrey Parker, \"only two civilisation have invented drill for their infantry: China and Europe. Moreover, both of them did so twice: in the fifth century BC in North China and in Greece, and again in the late sixteenth century. Exponents of the second phase— Qi Jiguang in Imperial China and Maurice of Nassau in the Dutch Republic—explicitly sought to revive classical precedents, and in the West, marching in step and standing on parade became a permanent part of military life.\" Drill was difficult and the manner in which the volley fire should be executed had not been perfected in Louis' time. It is clear from Holland's historical sources that it took many trials and experiments for the process to be refined.\n\nIndeed, just using the musket itself was considered unorthodox and in some parts of the world there was even a push back against the incorporation of muskets. According to Qi Jiguang, this was because:\n\nIn Korea the Joseon dynasty underwent a devastating war with newly unified Japan that lasted from 1592 to 1598. The shock of this encounter spurred the court to undergo a process of military strengthening. One of the core elements of military strengthening was to adopt the musket. According to reformers, \"In recent times in China they did not have muskets; they first learned about them from the Wokou pirates in Zhejiang Province. Qi Jiguang trained troops in their use for several years until they [muskets] became one of the skills of the Chinese, who subsequently used them to defeat the Japanese.\" By 1607 Korean musketeers had been trained in the fashion which Qi Jiguang prescribed, and a drill manual had been produced based on the Chinese leader's \"Jixiao Xinshu\". Of the volley fire, the manual says that \"every musketeer squad should either divide into two musketeers per layer or one and deliver fire in five volleys or in ten.\" Another Korean manual produced in 1649 describes a similar process: \"When the enemy approaches to within a hundred paces, a signal gun is fired and a conch is blown, at which the soldiers stand. Then a gong is sounded, the conch stops blowing, and the heavenly swan [a double-reed horn] is sounded, at which the musketeers fire in concert, either all at once or in five volleys (齊放一次盡擧或分五擧).\" This training method proved to be quite formidable in the 1619 Battle of Sarhu when 10,000 Korean musketeers managed to kill many Manchus before their allies surrendered. While Korea went on to lose both wars against the Manchu invasions of 1627 and 1636, their musketeers were well respected by Manchu leaders. It was the first Qing emperor Hong Taiji who wrote: \"The Koreans are incapable on horseback but do not transgress the principles of the military arts. They excel at infantry fighting, especially in musketeer tactics.\"\n\nThe Gunpowder Empires generally refer to the Islamic Ottoman, Safavid and Mughal empires. The phrase was first coined by Marshall Hodgson in the title of Book 5 (\"The Second Flowering: The Empires of Gunpowder Times\") of his highly influential three-volume work, \"The Venture of Islam\" (1974). Hogdson applied the term \"gunpowder empire\" to three Islamic political entities he identified as separate from the unstable, geographically limited confederations of Turkic clans that prevailed in post-Mongol times. He called them \"military patronage states of the Later Middle Period,\" which possessed three defining characteristics: first, a legitimization of independent dynastic law; second, the conception of the whole state as a single military force; third, the attempt to explain all economic and high cultural resources as appanages of the chief military families. Connecting these empires were their traditions which grew \"out of Mongol notions of greatness,\" but \"[s]uch notions could fully mature and create stable bureaucratic empires only after gunpowder weapons and their specialized technology attained a primary place in military life.\"\n\nWilliam H. McNeill further expanded on the concept of gunpowder empires by arguing that such states \"were able to monopolize the new artillery, central authorities were able to unite larger territories into new, or newly consolidated, empires.\" In the McNeill political framework, gunpowder empires were notable for their monopolization of firearms, whereas although Europe pioneered the development of the new artillery in the fifteenth century, no state monopolized it. Gun-casting know-how had been concentrated in the Low Countries near the mouths of the Scheldt and Rhine rivers, which France and the Habsburgs divided up in territory among themselves, resulting in an arms standoff. By contrast, such monopolies allowed states to create militarized empires in the Near East, Russia and India, and \"in a considerably modified fashion\" in China and Japan.\n\nIn 2011 Douglas E. Streusand criticized the Hodgson-McNeill Gunpowder-Empire hypothesis, calling it into disfavor as a neither \"adequate [n]or accurate\" explanation, although the term remains in use. The main problem with the Hodgson-McNeill theory is that the acquisition of firearms does not seem to have preceded the initial acquisition of territory constituting the imperial critical mass of any of the three early modern Islamic empires, except in the case of the Mughals. Moreover, it seems that the commitment to military autocratic rule pre-dated the acquisition of gunpowder weapons in all three cases. Reasons other than (or in addition to) military technology have been offered for the nearly simultaneous rise of three centralized military empires in contiguous areas dominated by decentralized Turkic tribes. One explanation, called \"Confessionalization\" by historians of fifteenth-century Europe, invokes examination of how the relation of church and state \"mediated through confessional statements and church ordinances\" lead to the origins of absolutist polities. Douglas Streusand uses the Safavids as an example: The Safavids from the beginning imposed a new religious identity on their general population; they did not seek to develop a national or linguistic identity, but their policy had that effect. Nor does it seem to be the case that the acquisition of gunpowder weapons and their integration into the military was influenced by considerations of whichever variety of Islam the particular empire promoted. Whether or not gunpowder was inherently linked to the existence of any of these three empires, it cannot be questioned that each of the three acquired artillery and firearms early in their history and made such weapons an integral part of their military tactics.\n\nIn India, guns made of bronze were recovered from Calicut (1504) and Diu (1533). By the 17th century, Indians were manufacturing a diverse variety of firearms; large guns in particular, became visible in Tanjore, Dacca, Bijapur and Murshidabad. Gujarāt supplied Europe saltpeter for use in gunpowder warfare during the 17th century. Bengal and Mālwa participated in saltpeter production. The Dutch, French, Portuguese, and English used Chāpra as a center of saltpeter refining.\n\nFathullah Shirazi (c. 1582), who worked for Akbar the Great as a mechanical engineer, developed an early multi gun shot. As opposed to the polybolos and repeating crossbows used earlier in ancient Greece and China, respectively, Shirazi's rapid-firing gun had multiple gun barrels that fired hand cannons loaded with gunpowder.\n\nIn the \"Encyclopædia Britannica (2008)\", Stephen Oliver Fought & John F. Guilmartin, Jr. describe the gunpowder technology in 18th-century India, with reference to the rocket artillery used by the Kingdom of Mysore (as described in the \"Fathul Mujahidin\") and its influence on the Congreve rocket:\nHyder Ali, prince of Mysore, developed war bombs with an important change: the use of metal pipes to contain the combustion powder. Although the hammered soft iron he used was crude, the bursting strength of the container of black powder was much higher than the earlier paper construction. Thus a greater internal pressure was possible, with a resultant greater thrust of the propulsive jet. The rocket body was lashed with leather thongs to a long bamboo stick. Range was perhaps up to three-quarters of a mile (more than a kilometer). Although individually these rockets were not accurate, dispersion error became less important when large numbers were fired rapidly in mass attacks. They were particularly effective against cavalry and were hurled into the air, after lighting, or skimmed along the hard dry ground. Hyder Ali's son, Tippu Sultan, continued to develop and expand the use of rocket weapons, reportedly increasing the number of rocket troops from 1,200 to a corps of 5,000. In battles at Seringapatam in 1792 and 1799 these rockets were used with considerable effect against the British.\n\nThe news of the successful use of rockets spread through Europe. In England Sir William Congreve began to experiment privately. First, he experimented with a number of black-powder formulas and set down standard specifications of composition. He also standardized construction details and used improved production techniques. Also, his designs made it possible to choose either an explosive (ball charge) or incendiary warhead.\nIn \"A History of Greek Fire and Gunpowder\", James Riddick Partington describes Indian rockets, mines and other means of gunpowder warfare:\n\nThe Indian war rockets were formidable weapons before such rockets were used in Europe. They had bam-boo rods, a rocket-body lashed to the rod, and iron points. They were directed at the target and fired by lighting the fuse, but the trajectory was rather erratic. The use of mines and counter-mines with explosive charges of gunpowder is mentioned for the times of Akbar and Jahāngir.\n\nGunpowder was used for hydraulic engineering in China by 1541. Gunpowder blasting followed by dredging of the detritus was a technique which Chen Mu employed to improve the Grand Canal at the waterway where it crossed the Yellow River. In Europe gunpowder was utilized in the construction of the Canal du Midi in Southern France. It was completed in 1681 and linked the Mediterranean sea with the Atlantic with 240 km of canal and 100 locks. Another noteworthy consumer of black powder was the Erie canal in New York, which was 585 km long and took eight years to complete, starting in 1817.\n\nBefore gunpowder was applied to civil engineering, there were two ways to break up large rocks, by hard labor or by heating with large fires followed by rapid quenching. The earliest record for the use of gunpowder in mines comes from Hungary in 1627. It was introduced to Britain in 1638 by German miners, after which records are numerous. Until the invention of the safety fuse by William Bickford in 1831, the practice was extremely dangerous. Another reason for danger were the dense fumes given off and the risk of igniting flammable gas when used in coal mines.\n\nBlack powder was also extensively used in railway construction. At first railways followed the contours of the land, or crossed low ground by means of bridges and viaducts, but later railways made extensive use of cuttings and tunnels. One 2400-ft stretch of the 5.4 mi Box Tunnel on the Great Western Railway line between London and Bristol consumed a ton of gunpowder per week for over two years. The 12.9 km long Mont Cenis Tunnel was completed in 13 years starting in 1857 but, even with black powder, progress was only 25 cm a day until the invention of pneumatic drills sped up the work.\n\nThe latter half of the 19th century saw the invention of nitroglycerin, nitrocellulose and smokeless powders which soon replaced black powder in many applications.\n\nShot and gunpowder for military purposes were made by skilled military tradesmen, who were later called \"firemakers\", who were also required to make fireworks for celebrations of victory or peace. During the Renaissance two European schools of pyrotechnic thought emerged, one in Italy and the other at Nürnberg, Germany. The Italian school of pyrotechnics emphasized elaborate fireworks, the German school stressed scientific advancement. Both schools added significantly to the further development of pyrotechnics and, by the mid-17th century, fireworks were used for entertainment on an unprecedented scale in Europe—being popular even at resorts and public gardens. At the same time some military men were disguising gray in their beards by dusting them with gunpowder, the antiquary John Aubrey noted in his memoranda.\n\nGunpowder as a gun propellant suffered from several weaknesses inherent to its composition. It was subject to passivation by moisture and was awkward to load and ignite in a weapon. Sulfur oxides and moisture produced corrosion on metal gun components and the smoke gave away the position of the shooter. The development of cartridges and explosive primers were a major improvement in the use of gunpowders in the field.\n\nFrom the earliest period, gunpowder has been composed of a nitrate salt, sulfur, and carbonaceous matter. The Nitrate component is the Oxidizing agent, Sulfur is a low melting Reducing agent and serves to aid in the transfer of heat through the gunpowder mass, and Carbon is a reducing component producing hot, high pressure gas. The utility of gunpowder lies in its ability to accelerate a projectile by the explosive expansion of gas. The development of new explosive materials in the 19th century naturally led to improvements in the rate and magnitude of pressure rise as well as new means for ignition of the charge.\n\nNitroester compositions nitrocellulose and nitroglycerin were developed by Henri Braconnot in 1832 and Ascanio Sobrero in 1846, respectively. The development of smokeless powder stemmed from efforts by numerous workers to produce an improved gun propellant providing better resistance to moisture, greater muzzle velocity, and generally greater reliability. By the end of the 19th century, nitroester compositions Poudre B, Ballistite, and Cordite were the major smokeless propellants. Significantly, many nitroesters were capable of detonation without confinement. The classic gunpowder composition was only capable of Deflagration in the open.\n\nThe process of aromatic nitration to afford picric acid from the trinitration of phenol was performed in the early 19th century, though it is possible that Johann Rudolf Glauber may have reported it much earlier. Nitroesters would find use in gun propellant formulation. Nitroaromatics like picric acid eventually found use in explosive cannon shells owing to their ability to withstand the severe shock of firing.\n\nDuring the American Revolutionary War, a number of caves were mined for saltpeter to make gunpowder when supplies from Europe were embargoed. Abigail Adams, reputedly also made gunpowder at her family farm in Massachusetts.\n\nThe New York Committee of Safety (American Revolution) produced some essays on making gunpowder that were printed in 1776.\n\nDuring the American Civil War, British India was the main source for saltpeter for the manufacture of gunpowder for the Union armies. This supply was threatened by the British government during the Trent Affair, when Union naval forces stopped a British ship, the RMS Trent, and removed two Confederate diplomats. The British government responded in part by halting all exports of saltpeter to the United States, threatening their gunpowder manufacturing resources. Shortly thereafter, the situation was resolved and the Confederate diplomats were released.\n\nThe Union Navy blockaded the southern Confederate States, which reduced the amount of gunpowder that could be imported from overseas. The Confederate Nitre and Mining Bureau was formed to produce gunpowder for the army and the navy from domestic resources. Nitre is the English spelling of \"Niter\". While carbon and sulfur were readily available throughout the south, potassium nitrate was often produced from the Calcium nitrate found in cave dirt, tobacco barn floors and barn stalls other places. A number of caves were mined, and the men and boys who worked in the caves were called \"peter monkey\", somewhat in imitation of the naval term \"powder monkey\" that was used for the boys who brought up charges of gunpowder on gunboats.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29336774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29336774", "title": "Identity economics", "text": "Identity economics\n\nIdentity economics captures the idea that people make economic choices based on both monetary incentives and their identity: holding monetary incentives constant, people avoid actions that conflict with their concept of self. The fundamentals of identity economics was first formulated by Nobel Prize–winning economist George Akerlof and Rachel Kranton in their article \"Economics and Identity,\" published in Quarterly Journal of Economics.\n\nThis article provides a framework for incorporating social identities into standard economics models, expanding the standard utility function to include both pecuniary payoffs and identity utility. The authors demonstrate the importance of identity in economics by showing how predictions of the classic principal-agent problem change when the identity of the agent is considered.\n\nAkerlof and Kranton provide an overview of their work in the book \"Identity Economics,\" published in 2010. In the book, they provide a layman's approach to Identity Economics and apply the concept to workplace organization, gender roles, and educational choice, summarizing several previous papers on the applications of Identity Economics.\n\nWhile this \"macro-economic\" theory deals exclusively with already well established categories of social identity, Laszlo Garai when applied the concept of social identity in economic psychology takes into consideration identities \"in statu nascendi\" (i.e. in the course of being formed and developed). This theory that is referred to the macro-processes based on a \"large-scale production\" later gets applied to the individual creativity's psychology: Garai derived it from the principal's and, resp., agent's \"identity elaboration\". A further special feature of Garai's theory on social identity is that it resolved the contradiction between the \"inter-individual phenomena\" studied by the social identity theories and the \"intra-individual mechanisms\" studied by the brain theories: L. Garai presented a theory on an \"inter-individual mechanism\" acting in the world of social identity. The theory that was referred in the beginning to the macro-processes based on a large-scale production later has been applied by Garai to the micro-processes of individual creativity.\n\nFollowing papers have used social identity to examine a variety of subjects within economics. Moses Shayo uses the concept of social identity to explain why countries with similar economic characteristics might choose substantially different levels of redistribution. The paper won the 2009 Michael Wallerstein Award, given to the best article published in the area of political economy. Daniel Benjamin, James Choi, and Joshua Strickland examine the effect of social identity, focusing on ethnic identity, on a wide range of economic behavior. For a review of papers that study economics and identity, see articles by Claire Hill (2007) and John Davis (2004).\n\n"}
{"id": "18909947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18909947", "title": "Information source (mathematics)", "text": "Information source (mathematics)\n\nIn mathematics, an information source is a sequence of random variables ranging over a finite alphabet Γ, having a stationary distribution.\n\nThe uncertainty, or entropy rate, of an information source is defined as\n\nwhere\n\nis the sequence of random variables defining the information source, and\n\nis the conditional information entropy of the sequence of random variables. Equivalently, one has\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8872460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8872460", "title": "Interpolation theory", "text": "Interpolation theory\n\nThe Interpolation Theory, also known as the Intercalation Theory or the Antithetic Theory, is a theory that attempts to explain the origin of the alternation of generations in plants. The Interpolation Theory suggests that the sporophyte generation progenated from a haploid, green algal thallus in which repeated mitotic cell divisions of a zygote produced an embryo retained on the thallus and gave rise to the diploid phase (sporophyte). Ensuing evolution caused the sporophyte to become increasingly complex, both organographically and anatomically.\n\nThe Interpolation Theory was introduced by Čelakovský (1874) as the Antithetic Theory. Bower (1889) further developed this theory and renamed it the Interpolation Theory. The theory was later supported by Overton (1893), Scott (1896), Strasburger (1897), Williams (1904), and others.\n\nThe gradual evolution of an independent, sporophyte phase was viewed by Bower as being closely related to the transition from aquatic to terrestrial plant life on Earth. \n\nEvidence supporting this theory can be found in the life cycle of modern Bryophytes in which the sporophyte is physiologically dependent on the gametophyte. Competing theories include the Transformation theory, which was introduced as the Homologous theory by Čelakovský, and also renamed by Bower.\n\n"}
{"id": "42251645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42251645", "title": "Jon Kvist", "text": "Jon Kvist\n\nJon Kvist (born 6 January 1967) is a Danish researcher and author. He is a professor at the Institute of Society and Globalization, at the Roskilde University, as well as a member of the Nordic Centre of Excellence on Reassessing the Nordic Welfare Model.\n\nKvist is the son of a teacher and a psychiatrist. He studied at the University of Odense in Denmark and at the University of Edinburgh in Scotland. From 1998 to 2008, Kvist was a senior researcher for the Danish National Institute of Social Research. In 2002, Kvist co-founded ESPAnet, the European network of Social Policy Analysts, a group of academics who study European social policy. He was a member of its board until 2008.\n\nHe is currently a member of the editorial board of the Journal of European Social Policy.\n\nKvist was on the Expert Group on Welfare in an Independent Scotland set down by the Scottish Government 2013-2014.\n\nCurrently, Kvist is on the Danish Government Commission on Unemployment Insurance (Dagpengekommissionen) that is to analyse and recommend reform of the unemployment insurance system.\n\nKvist is also member of the new European Commission European Network on Social Policy.\n\nKvist has two children.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13016351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13016351", "title": "Küssner effect", "text": "Küssner effect\n\nIn fluid dynamics, the Küssner effect describes the unsteady aerodynamic forces on an airfoil or hydrofoil caused by encountering a transverse gust. This is directly related to the Küssner function, used in describing the effect. Both the effect and function are named after Hans Georg Küssner (1900–1984), a German aerodynamics engineer.\n\nKüssner derived an approximate model for an airfoil encountering a sudden step-like change in the transverse gust velocity — or, equivalently, as seen from a frame of reference moving with the airfoil: a sudden change in the angle of attack. The airfoil is modelled as a flat plate in a potential flow, moving with constant horizontal velocity. For this case he derived the impulse response function — known as Küssner function — needed to compute the unsteady lift and moment exerted by the air on the airfoil.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17486896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17486896", "title": "Le Scienze", "text": "Le Scienze\n\nLe Scienze is an Italian monthly science magazine, Italian edition of\" Scientific American\".\n\nPublished monthly since 1968, \"Le Scienze\" was founded by industrial Alberto Mondadori and scientist Felice Ippolito. The magazine is part of Gruppo Editoriale L'Espresso and is published on a monthly basis.\n\n\"Le Scienze\" covers both high-rank American scientific results as well as Italian (and sometimes European) contributions to research. Among regular contributors of the magazine are Piergiorgio Odifreddi and Tullio Regge. The current director is Marco Cattaneo.\n\nIn 2007 the circulation of \"Le Scienze\" was 62,950 copies. It was 66,000 copies in 2010.\n\nList of magazines published in Italy\n"}
{"id": "39993157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39993157", "title": "Leuckart's law", "text": "Leuckart's law\n\nLeuckart's law is an empirical law in zoology that states that the size of the eye of an animal is related to its maximum speed of movement; fast-moving animals have larger eyes, after allowing for the effects of body mass. The hypothesis dates from 1876, and in older literature is usually referred to as Leuckart's ratio.\n\nThe principle was initially applied to birds; it has also been applied to mammals.\n\nA study of 88 bird species, published in 2011, found no useful correlation between flight speed and eye size.\n"}
{"id": "31404240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31404240", "title": "Linguistic intergroup bias", "text": "Linguistic intergroup bias\n\nLinguistic Intergroup Bias is a model of stereotype maintenance.\n\nCoined by Anne Maass and her colleagues, linguistic intergroup bias is a model of stereotype maintenance (Whitley & Kite, 2010). This model states that positive ingroup descriptions and negative outgroup descriptions are abstract and vague, while negative ingroup descriptions and positive outgroup descriptions are specific and observable. Abstract statements are vague and harder to prove wrong, while, concrete statements are specific, and easy to brush off as exceptions to the rule, therefore keeping stereotypes intact (Whitley & Kite, 2010).\nLinguistic intergroup bias is more likely to occur when outgroup members are performing a group stereotype consistent action. This implies that the linguistic intergroup bias is a cognitive process that requires little motivation (Maass, et al. 1989).\n\nB. W. Gorham performed an experiment in which he presented an actual newscast to white individuals who took a pre-study survey about the amount of time they spent watching cable news TV, network news TV, regular television and news websites such as CNN.com. These subjects were then shown an actual news clip where a murder investigation is presented and the suspect had been described as either a black male or a white male.\n\nThere were significant differences in responses of participants who saw the white man portrayed as the suspect rather than the black man: Participants said the white suspect “probably hurt the victims”. However, when the black man was presented as the suspect, the participants said the suspect “is probably violent” (Gorham, 2006). Gorham found that participants were more likely to describe the (negative) incident with adjectives, the most abstract description, if the suspect was presented as black and therefore outgroup, while using more concrete terms to describe the white (ingroup) suspect.\n\nRecent research has identified a related linguistic effect in which counterstereotypical individuals are liked significantly less than stereotypical individuals when they are described using behaviours but significantly more when they are described using traits. So, for example, people like “a man who is crying” less than “a woman who is crying” but they like “a sensitive man” more than “a sensitive woman”. In both cases, the man is counterstereotypical and the woman is stereotypical. However, in the former case the man and woman are described using a behaviour (“crying”) and in the latter case they are described using a trait (“sensitive”). Rubin, Paolini, and Crisp (2013) suggest that this behaviour-trait effect is caused by differences in cognitive processing: Counterstereotypical individuals are evaluated relatively negatively when they are described using behaviours because this linguistic description promotes deeper and more systematic processing which highlights the individuals’ stereotype disconfirmation. In contrast, counterstereotypical individuals are evaluated relatively positively when they are described using traits because this linguistic description promotes heuristic processing which highlights the individuals’ uniqueness.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "600782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=600782", "title": "LinuxChix", "text": "LinuxChix\n\nLinuxChix is a women-oriented Linux community. It was formed to provide both technical and social support for women Linux users, although men are encouraged to contribute. Members of the community are referred to as \"a Linux chick\" (singular) and \"LinuxChix\" or \"Linux Chix\" (plural) regardless of gender.\n\nLinuxChix was founded in 1999 by Deb Richardson, who was a technical writer and web-master at an open source consulting firm. Her reason for founding LinuxChix was to create an alternative to the \"locker room mentality\" of some other Linux User Groups and forums. There are two core rules: \"be polite and be helpful.\"\n\nLinuxChix started as an electronic mailing list called \"grrltalk\". The growth of this mailing list led to the establishment of other mailing lists, beginning with \"techtalk\" for technical discussions and \"issues\" for discussion of women's political issues. LinuxChix received attention when ZDNet published an article on it, which was subsequently cross-posted on Slashdot.\n\nDeb Richardson oversaw the activities of LinuxChix until 2001, when she handed over global coordination and hosting to Melbourne programmer and writer Jenn Vesperman. Jenn Vesperman led the community in a mostly hands-off fashion, delegating almost all tasks, including mailing list administration and website maintenance, to a group of volunteers. During Jenn Vesperman's tenure, the number of mailing lists tripled with the \"newchix\" mailing list for those new to Linux, the \"courses\" mailing list used by LinuxChix to teach each other specific topics, and the \"grrls-only\" mailing list (the only list closed to male subscribers) founded by Val Henson in 2002. At around the same time, a LinuxChix IRC server was created.\n\nThe term \"LinuxChix\" refers to the organisation centered on the official website, the mailing lists and the IRC channels. The organisation has no official status, and the name is used by other loosely affiliated groups, including several local, continental, and national chapters which operate independently.\n\nIn March 2007, Jenn Vesperman announced that she was retiring as the coordinator and invited nominations for a new leader. Mary Gardiner was announced as the new coordinator In April 2007, planning to serve as coordinator until 2009, however she resigned in June 2007. Currently the organization is led by three lead volunteers known as the \"Tres Chix\" who are elected by popular vote. In August 2007, Sulamita Garcia, Akkana Peck and Carla Schroder were elected to these positions.\n\nLinuxChix has over 15 regional chapters around the world. In 2004, a chapter was founded in Africa. In March 2007, on the International Women's Day, Australia's two LinuxChix chapters united to form a nationwide chapter called \"AussieChix\". The New Zealand chapter was established in February 2007.\n\nSome local LinuxChix chapters hold regular meetings. Others only meet up on special occasions, such as visits from non-local members or in conjunction with technical conferences. In 2007, members of the Sydney chapter organized a LinuxChix miniconf at linux.conf.au at the University of New South Wales. Events are held on other special occasions; in 2005, for example, LinuxChix Africa organized an event to celebrate Software Freedom Day at Wits University.\n\nThe Indian chapter of LinuxChix (aka IndiChix) led an initiative to establish Linux labs in a number of cities in India. These labs provide spaces equipped with PCs and internet connections where women can learn more about Linux and collaborate on contributions to the Libre software community. Labs have gone live in Bangalore, Delhi, Mumbai, and Pune.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "228473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228473", "title": "List of International Organization for Standardization standards", "text": "List of International Organization for Standardization standards\n\nThis is a list of published International Organization for Standardization (ISO) standards and other deliverables. For a complete and up-to-date list of all the ISO standards, see the ISO catalogue.\n\nThe standards are protected by copyright and most of them must be purchased. However, about 300 of the standards produced by ISO and IEC's Joint Technical Committee 1 (JTC1) have been made freely and publicly available.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15148352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15148352", "title": "List of Superfund sites in Indiana", "text": "List of Superfund sites in Indiana\n\nThis is a list of Superfund sites in Indiana designated under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA) environmental law. The CERCLA federal law of 1980 authorized the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to create a list of polluted locations requiring a long-term response to clean up hazardous material contaminations. These locations are known as Superfund sites, and are placed on the National Priorities List (NPL). The NPL guides the EPA in \"determining which sites warrant further investigation\" for environmental remediation. As of March 26, 2010, there were 32 Superfund sites on the National Priorities List in Indiana. No additional sites are currently proposed for entry on the list. Nine sites have been cleaned up and removed from the list.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1406322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1406322", "title": "List of garden features", "text": "List of garden features\n\nGarden features are physical elements, both natural and manmade, used in garden design.\n"}
{"id": "11309231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11309231", "title": "List of participants in the Evolving Genes and Proteins symposium", "text": "List of participants in the Evolving Genes and Proteins symposium\n\nThis is a list of scientists who participated in the 1964 \"Evolving Genes and Proteins\" symposium, a landmark event in the history of molecular evolution. The symposium, supported by the National Science Foundation, took place on September 17 and September 18, 1964 at the Institute of Microbiology of Rutgers University. A summary of the proceedings was published in \"Science\", and the full proceedings were edited by Vernon Bryson and Henry J. Vogel and published in 1965.\n"}
{"id": "56023027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56023027", "title": "List of scientific misconduct incidents", "text": "List of scientific misconduct incidents\n\nScientific misconduct is the violation of the standard codes of scholarly conduct and ethical behavior in the publication of professional scientific research. A \"Lancet\" review on \"Handling of Scientific Misconduct in Scandinavian countries\" gave examples of policy definitions. In Denmark, scientific misconduct is defined as \"intention[al] or gross negligence leading to fabrication of the scientific message or a false credit or emphasis given to a scientist\", and in Sweden as \"intention[al] distortion of the research process by fabrication of data, text, hypothesis, or methods from another researcher's manuscript form or publication; or distortion of the research process in other ways.\"\n\nA 2009 systematic review and meta-analysis of survey data found that about 2% of scientists admitted to falsifying, fabricating, or modifying data at least once.\n\n\nublisher=Cs.technion.ac.il |date=2012-05-10 |access-date=2013-03-01}}</ref> Dean of the Computer Science Department of Technion, Haifa, Israel. He was accused of extensive plagiarism in at least eight of his academic papers.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49050343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49050343", "title": "List of things named after Josiah W. Gibbs", "text": "List of things named after Josiah W. Gibbs\n\nThings named after American scientist Josiah Willard Gibbs:\n\n"}
{"id": "12756427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12756427", "title": "New Guinea Highlands", "text": "New Guinea Highlands\n\nThe New Guinea Highlands, also known as the Central Range or Central Cordillera, are a chain of mountain ranges and intermountain river valleys, many of which support thriving agricultural communities, on the large island of New Guinea. The highlands run generally east-west the length of the island, which is divided politically between Indonesia in the west and Papua New Guinea in the east.\n\nThe Central Cordillera, some peaks of which are capped with ice, consists of (from east to west): the Central Highlands and Eastern Highlands of Papua New Guinea including the Owen Stanley Range in the southeast, whose highest peak is Mount Victoria at 4,038 metres (13,248 feet), the Albert Victor Mountains, the Sir Arthur Gordon Range, and the Bismarck Range, whose highest peak is Mount Wilhelm at 4,509 metres (14,793 feet), which is an extinct volcano with a crater lake; the Star Mountains on the Papua New Guinea–Indonesia border; and the Maoke Mountains or Snow Range in Indonesia, where perpetual snow was found by H. A. Lorentz in 1909 at 4,461 m (14,635 ft), and whose highest peaks are Puncak Jaya (Mt. Carstensz) at 4,884 m (16,024 feet), Puncak Mandala (Mt. Juliana) at 4,760 m (15,610 ft) and Puncak Trikora (Mt. Wilhelmina) at 4,750 m (15,580 ft).\n\nAlthough some valleys such as the Wahgi Valley in the Western Highlands, Papua New Guinea are heavily cultivated and support urban settlements most of the mountains have traditional tribal village communities in the grassy mountain valleys. The PNG Highland provinces are: Eastern Highlands Province, the most heavily populated area of PNG; Simbu Province (or Chimbu) whose centre is the small coffee-growing town of Kundiawa on the Wahgi River near Mount Wilhelm; the Western Highlands; the rugged Enga Province the home of the Enga people with its administration in the very small town of Wabag on the Lai River, and containing the large Porgera Gold Mine; and Southern Highlands Province, with its centre in the small town and airport of Mendi, and containing the Huli wigmen area around the town of Tari. The Highlands Highway connects many of these towns. Larger urban areas in the PNG Highlands include the Western Highlands capital and PNG's 3rd largest city Mount Hagen (near the extinct Mount Hagen (volcano)), the Eastern Highlands capital and former colonial town of Goroka, and the mining town of Tabubil. The climate is humid as you would expect of the tropical rainforested island of New Guinea, but the higher mountain slopes are of course cooler than the lowlands.\n\nThe Highlands are the source of a number of important rivers including the Ramu River in the north and the Wahgi River in the south, and lakes including Lake Kutubu, near which oil has been extracted since 1992 by Chevron. Mining is also very active in the region to the detriment of indigenous groups, with frequent friction.\n\nThis chain of mountains continues to rise (with corresponding quakes) as the Australian plate collides with the plates to the northeast, yet marking the southern boundaries of the Maoke Plate and Woodlark Plates. The width of the mountain range varies considerably, with a central thin segment near the borders of the two nations.\n\nThe fertile Highlands have long been inhabited and artifacts uncovered in the Ivane Valley indicate that the Highlands were first settled about 50,000 years ago. The inhabitants were nomadic foragers but around 10,000 years ago began developing a fairly advanced agricultural society. The Highlands were not settled by the Western powers during the early colonial period and they were first visited by western zoologists and explorers, such as Mick Leahy, who opened the Wahgi Valley and Mount Hagen, and Richard Archbold in the 1930s. During World War II, the eastern highlands saw the Kokoda Track campaign in which Australian and New Zealand soldiers, along with native guides who were pressed into service, fought and ultimately stopped the Japanese from advancing south towards Port Moresby and, ultimately, northern Queensland on the Australian mainland.\n\nThe New Guinea Highlands are home to a great variety of Australasian plant and animal communities, distinct from the surrounding lowlands to the north and south of the central ranges and varying up and along the mountain ranges. The habitats of the mountains have been separated into two ecoregions, depending on their elevation, the tropical montane forests and alpine grasslands, but within these broad bands there is a variety of wildlife along the island as some of the mountains stand quite a distance from others with some species of plant or animal existing on only one or two mountains. Particular centres of plant diversity are: the Star Mountains area of western Papua New Guinea near the Indonesian border including Telefomin and Strickland Gorge; the Hunstein Range; Mount Giluwe, a major birdwatching area for birds-of-paradise; the volcanic limestone Kubor Range; the Bismarck Range/Mount Wilhelm/Schrader Range/Mount Gahavisuka, of which Mount Wilhelm is particularly rich in endemic species; and finally the Crater Mountain and Mount Michael in the Eastern Highlands.\n\nThe montane rain forests (from 1,000 to 3,000m) can be further categorised into three broad vegetation zones on the mountains, distinguished by elevation. The lower montane forests extend from 1,000 to 1,500 metres elevation. They are dominated by broadleaf evergreen trees, including \"Castanopsis acuminatissima,\" \"Lithocarpus\" spp., elaeocarps, and laurels. Coniferous Araucarias may form thick stands. The upper montane forests, which extend from 1,500 to 2,500 metres elevation, are dominated by moss-covered \"Nothofagus\". Finally, the high mountain forest extends from 2,500 to 3,000 metres elevation. Conifers (\"Podocarpus, Dacrycarpus, Dacrydium, Papuacedrus, Araucaria,\" and \"Libocedrus\") and broadleaf trees of the myrtle family (Myrtaceae) form a thin canopy, with a prominent understory.\n\nThe montane forests are home to a rich wildlife, a great deal of which is unique to these mountains including many plants, reptiles and over 100 birds and animals. Of the 90 mammals found on the island, 44 are endemic, a very high proportion. The birds and animals include many Australasian species such as tree-kangaroos, bowerbirds, Australasian robins, honeyeaters, and birds-of-paradise. Four of the endemic mammals are critically endangered: the Bulmer's fruit bat, with only tiny communities remaining in the Papua New Guinea end of the island, and three rodents; a large \"Leptomys\", the eastern shrew mouse, and the lesser small-toothed rat. There are 55 bird species endemic to the mountains from a total of 348 birds found here. There are a number of endemic butterflies, particularly on the Weyland Mountains and the Wahgi Valley.\n\nApart from in the cultivated valleys the montane forests are largely intact, although the logging industry is a constant threat as more and more access to the mountains is achieved by road building. 20% of this ecoregion is contained within protected areas, mostly in the Indonesian half of the island, including the largest protected area in South East Asia, the huge Lorentz National Park in the highlands, a section of which is montane forest ecosystem.\n\nAbove 3,000 metres elevation, the high mountain forest yields to remote sub-alpine habitats including alpine meadows, conifer forest, tree-fern (\"Cyathea\") grasslands, bogs, and shrubby heaths of \"Rhododendron, Vaccinium, Coprosma, Rapanea\", and \"Saurauia\" all quite different from the tropical rain forest that covers most of New Guinea.\n\nThe alpine habitat above 4,000 metres consists of compact rosette and cushion herbs, such as \"Ranunculus, Potentilla, Gentiana\", and \"Epilobium\", grasses (\"Poa\" and \"Deschampsia\"), bryophytes, and lichens.\n\nWhile there are a number of endemic plants there are few animals on the higher slopes, with only nine mammals found here: four rodents, two bats, a cuscus possum, an antechinus and Doria's tree-kangaroo (\"Dendrolagus dorianus\"). Four of these are endemic: the small marsupial black-tailed antechinus (\"Murexechinus melanurus\"), western shrew mouse, glacier rat and alpine woolly rat. There are nearly 100 birds of which 28 are considered endemic or nearly so, including the vulnerable long-bearded melidectes (\"Melidectes princeps\"), ribbon-tailed astrapia (\"Astrapia mayeri\") and Macgregor's giant honeyeater, which although endangered generally is a cultural icon of the Ketengban people of the Star Mountains and therefore protected in some areas.\n\nAlmost half of these remote grasslands are protected in national parks and they are in good condition although in recent times more people are accessing the highlands as visitors or through involvement in mining.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49148279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49148279", "title": "Oscar Harger", "text": "Oscar Harger\n\nOscar Harger (January 12, 1843 – November 6, 1887) was an American invertebrate zoologist and paleontologist known for his studies on isopods, and for his work as an paleontological assistant to Othniel Charles Marsh.\n\nHarger, the son of Alfred Harger, a farmer and land surveyor of Huguenot descent, was born in Oxford, New Haven County, Conn, January 12, 1843. He graduated from Yale College in 1868. He was obliged throughout his college course to maintain himself by teaching and mathematical work, and he perhaps injured his health permanently by the severe economy which he practiced at that time. In his boyhood he had been an enthusiastic student of botany, and his success in this department of natural history led him on graduation to take up the study of zoology with Professor Verrill of the Sheffield Scientific School. He had already shown his special aptitude for original work and had begun important investigations, when he accepted in 1870 the position of Assistant in Paleontology under Professor Marsh, which he retained until his death. He continued, however, his investigations in invertebrate zoology, as long as his health allowed; of his publications in this field the most important is a valuable \"Report on the Marine Isopoda of New England and the Adjacent Waters\" (in the \"Report of the United States Commissioner of Fish and Fisheries\" for 1878). His best work and highest attainments, however, were in the department of vertebrate paleontology.\n\nIn 1879 he was attacked by cardiac trouble, which increased from year to year. He continued engaged in his regular duties, until prostrated by cerebral hemorrhage on Monday, October 31, 1887. He died on the following Sunday, November 6, in his 45th year.\n\nHe married, May 13, 1875, Jessie Craig, of New Haven, who survived him without children.\n\nHe is commemorated in the genus \"Hargeria\", a fossil bird, and the species \"Miacis hargeri\", an extinct carnivorous mammal.\n\n"}
{"id": "30876740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30876740", "title": "Phototropism", "text": "Phototropism\n\nPhototropism is the growth of an organism which responds to a light stimulus. It is most often observed in plants, but can also occur in other organisms such as fungi. The cells on the plant that are farthest from the light have a chemical called auxin that reacts when phototropism occurs. This causes the plant to have elongated cells on the farthest side from the light. Phototropism is one of the many plant tropisms or movements which respond to external stimuli. Growth towards a light source is called positive phototropism, while growth away from light is called negative phototropism (skototropism). Most plant shoots exhibit positive phototropism, and rearrange their chloroplasts in the leaves to maximize photosynthetic energy and promote growth. Roots usually exhibit negative phototropism, although gravitropism may play a larger role in root behavior and growth. Some vine shoot tips exhibit negative phototropism, which allows them to grow towards dark, solid objects and climb them. The combination of phototropism and gravitropism allow plants to grow in the correct direction.\n\nThere are several signaling molecules that help the plant determine where the light source is coming from which helps the plant, and this activates several genes, which change the hormone gradients allowing the plant to grow towards the light. The very tip of the plant known as the coleoptile is necessary in light sensing. The middle portion of the coleoptile is the area where the shoot curvature occurs. The Cholodny–Went hypothesis, developed in the early 20th century, predicts that in the presence of asymmetric light, auxin will move towards the shaded side and promote elongation of the cells on that side to cause the plant to curve towards the light source. Auxins activate proton pumps, decreasing the pH in the cells on the dark side of the plant. This acidification of the cell wall region activates enzymes known as expansins which break bonds in the cell wall structure, making the cell walls less rigid. In addition, the acidic environment causes disruption of hydrogen bonds in the cellulose that makes up the cell wall. The decrease in cell wall strength causes cells to swell, exerting the mechanical pressure that drives phototropic movement.\n\nA second group of genes, \"PIN\" genes, have been found to play a major role in phototropism. They are auxin transporters, so it is thought that they are responsible for the polarization of auxin. Specifically \"PIN3\" has been identified as the primary auxin carrier. It is possible that phototropins receive light and inhibit the activity of PINOID kinase (PID), which then promotes the activity of \"PIN3\". This activation of \"PIN3\" leads to asymmetric distribution of auxin, which then leads to asymmetric elongation of cells in the stem. \"pin3\" mutants had shorter hypocotyls and roots than the wild-type, and the same phenotype was seen in plants grown with auxin efflux inhibitors. Using anti-PIN3 immunogold labeling, movement of the PIN3 protein was observed. PIN3 is normally localized to the surface of hypocotyl and stem, but is also internalized in the presence of Brefeldin A (BFA), an exocytosis inhibitor. This mechanism allows PIN3 to be repositioned in response to an environmental stimulus. PIN3 and PIN7 proteins were thought to play a role in pulse-induced phototropism. The curvature responses in the \"pin3\" mutant were reduced significantly, but only slightly reduced in \"pin7\" mutants. There is some redundancy among \"PIN1\", \"PIN3\", and \"PIN7\", but it is thought that PIN3 plays a greater role in pulse-induced phototropism.\n\nThere are phototropins that are highly expressed in the upper region of coleoptiles. The two main phototropins are phot1 and phot2. \"phot2\" single mutants have phototropic responses like that of the wild-type, but \"phot1 phot2\" double mutants do not show any phototropic responses. The amounts of \"PHOT1\" and \"PHOT2\" present are different depending on the age of the plant and the intensity of the light. There is a high amount of \"PHOT2\" present in mature \"Arabidopsis\" leaves and this was also seen in rice orthologs. The expression of \"PHOT1\" and \"PHOT2\" changes depending on the presence of blue or red light. There was a downregulation of \"PHOT1\" mRNA in the presence of light, but upregulation of PHOT2 transcript. The levels of mRNA and protein present in the plant were dependent upon the age of the plant. This suggests that the phototropin expression levels change with the maturation of the leaves.\nMature leaves contain chloroplasts that are essential in photosynthesis. Chloroplast rearrangement occurs in different light environments to maximize photosynthesis. There are several genes involved in plant phototropism including the \"NPH1\" and \"NPL1\" gene. They are both involved in chloroplast rearrangement. The \"nph1\" and \"npl1\" double mutants were found to have reduced phototropic responses. In fact, the two genes are both redundant in determining the curvature of the stem.\n\nIn 2012, Sakai and Haga outlined how different auxin concentrations could be arising on shaded and lighted side of the stem, giving birth to phototropic response. Five models in respect to stem phototropism have been proposed, using \"Arabidopsis thaliana\" as the study plant.\n\nIn the first model incoming light deactivates auxin on the light side of the plant allowing the shaded part to continue growing and eventually bend the plant over towards the light.\n\nIn the second model light inhibits auxin biosynthesis on the light side of the plant, thus decreasing the concentration of auxin relative to the unaffected side.\n\nIn the third model there is a horizontal flow of auxin from both the light and dark side of the plant. Incoming light causes more auxin to flow from the exposed side to the shaded side, increasing the concentration of auxin on the shaded side and thus more growth occurring.\n\nIn the fourth model it shows the plant receiving light to inhibit auxin basipetal down to the exposed side, causing the auxin to only flow down the shaded side.\n\nModel five encompasses elements of both model 3 and 4. The main auxin flow in this model comes from the top of the plant vertically down towards the base of the plant with some of the auxin travelling horizontally from the main auxin flow to both sides of the plant. Receiving light inhibits the horizontal auxin flow from the main vertical auxin flow to the irradiated exposed side. And according to the study by Sakai and Haga, the observed asymmetric auxin distribution and subsequent phototropic response in hypocotyls seems most consistent with this fifth scenario.\n\nPhototropism in plants such as \"Arabidopsis thaliana\" is directed by blue light receptors called phototropins. Other photosensitive receptors in plants include phytochromes that sense red light and cryptochromes that sense blue light. Different organs of the plant may exhibit different phototropic reactions to different wavelengths of light. Stem tips exhibit positive phototropic reactions to blue light, while root tips exhibit negative phototropic reactions to blue light. Both root tips and most stem tips exhibit positive phototropism to red light. Cryptochromes are photoreceptors that absorb blue/ UV-A light, and they help control the circadian rhythm in plants and timing of flowering. Phytochromes are photoreceptors that sense red/far-red light, but they also absorb blue light. The combination of responses from phytochromes and cryptochromes allow the plant to respond to various kinds of light. Together phytochromes and cryptochromes inhibit gravitropism in hypocotyls and contribute to phototropism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "665728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=665728", "title": "Shape-memory alloy", "text": "Shape-memory alloy\n\nA shape-memory alloy (SMA, smart metal, memory metal, memory alloy, muscle wire, smart alloy) is an alloy that \"remembers\" its original shape and that when deformed returns to its pre-deformed shape when heated. This material is a lightweight, solid-state alternative to conventional actuators such as hydraulic, pneumatic, and motor-based systems. Shape-memory alloys have applications in robotics and automotive, aerospace and biomedical industries.\n\nThe two most prevalent shape-memory alloys are copper-aluminium-nickel, and nickel-titanium (NiTi) alloys but SMAs can also be created by alloying zinc, copper, gold and iron.\nAlthough iron-based and copper-based SMAs, such as Fe-Mn-Si, Cu-Zn-Al and Cu-Al-Ni, are commercially available and cheaper than NiTi, NiTi based SMAs are preferable for most applications due to their stability, practicability and superior thermo-mechanic performance. SMAs can exist in two different phases, with three different crystal structures (i.e. twinned martensite, detwinned martensite and austenite) and six possible transformations.\n\nNiTi alloys change from austenite to martensite upon cooling; \"M\" is the temperature at which the transition to martensite completes upon cooling. Accordingly, during heating \"A\" and \"A\" are the temperatures at which the transformation from martensite to austenite starts and finishes. Repeated use of the shape-memory effect may lead to a shift of the characteristic transformation temperatures (this effect is known as functional fatigue, as it is closely related with a change of microstructural and functional properties of the material). The maximum temperature at which SMAs can no longer be stress induced is called \"M\", where the SMAs are permanently deformed.\n\nThe transition from the martensite phase to the austenite phase is only dependent on temperature and stress, not time, as most phase changes are, as there is no diffusion involved. Similarly, the austenite structure receives its name from steel alloys of a similar structure. It is the reversible diffusionless transition between these two phases that results in special properties. While martensite can be formed from austenite by rapidly cooling carbon-steel, this process is not reversible, so steel does not have shape-memory properties.\n\nIn this figure, ξ(T) represents the martensite fraction. The difference between the heating transition and the cooling transition gives rise to hysteresis where some of the mechanical energy is lost in the process. The shape of the curve depends on the material properties of the shape-memory alloy, such as the alloying. and work hardening.\n\nShape-memory alloys have different shape-memory effects. Two common effects are one-way and two-way shape memory. A schematic of the effects is shown below.\n\nThe procedures are very similar: starting from martensite (a), adding a reversible deformation for the one-way effect or severe deformation with an irreversible amount for the two-way (b), heating the sample (c) and cooling it again (d).\n\nWhen a shape-memory alloy is in its cold state (below \"A\"), the metal can be bent or stretched and will hold those shapes until heated above the transition temperature. Upon heating, the shape changes to its original. When the metal cools again it will remain in the hot shape, until deformed again.\n\nWith the one-way effect, cooling from high temperatures does not cause a macroscopic shape change. A deformation is necessary to create the low-temperature shape. On heating, transformation starts at \"A\" and is completed at \"A\" (typically 2 to 20 °C or hotter, depending on the alloy or the loading conditions). \"A\" is determined by the alloy type and composition and can vary between and .\n\nThe two-way shape-memory effect is the effect that the material remembers two different shapes: one at low temperatures, and one at the high-temperature shape. A material that shows a shape-memory effect during both heating and cooling is said to have two-way shape memory. This can also be obtained without the application of an external force (intrinsic two-way effect). The reason the material behaves so differently in these situations lies in training. Training implies that a shape memory can \"learn\" to behave in a certain way. Under normal circumstances, a shape-memory alloy \"remembers\" its low-temperature shape, but upon heating to recover the high-temperature shape, immediately \"forgets\" the low-temperature shape. However, it can be \"trained\" to \"remember\" to leave some reminders of the deformed low-temperature condition in the high-temperature phases. There are several ways of doing this. A shaped, trained object heated beyond a certain point will lose the two-way memory effect.\n\nSMAs also display superelasticity, which is characterized by the recovery of relatively large strains with some , however, dissipation. In addition to temperature-induced phase transformations, martensite and austenite phases can be induced in response to mechanical stress. When SMAs are loaded in the austenite phase (i.e. above a certain temperature), the material will begin to transform into the (twinned) martensite phase when a critical stress is reached. Upon continued loading and assuming isothermal conditions, the (twinned) martensite will begin to detwin, allowing the material to undergo plastic deformation. If the unloading happens before plasticity, the martensite transforms back to austenite, and the material recovers its original shape by developing a hysteresis. For example, these materials can reversibly deform to very high strains – up to 7 percent. A more thorough discussion of the pseudoelastic behavior is presented by the experimental work of Shaw & Kyriakides, and more recently by Ma et al.\n\nThe first reported steps towards the discovery of the shape-memory effect were taken in the 1930s. According to Otsuka and Wayman, Arne Ölander discovered the pseudoelastic behavior of the Au-Cd alloy in 1932. Greninger and Mooradian (1938) observed the formation and disappearance of a martensitic phase by decreasing and increasing the temperature of a Cu-Zn alloy. The basic phenomenon of the memory effect governed by the thermoelastic behavior of the martensite phase was widely reported a decade later by Kurdjumov and Khandros (1949) and also by Chang and Read (1951).\n\nThe nickel-titanium alloys were first developed in 1962–1963 by the United States Naval Ordnance Laboratory and commercialized under the trade name Nitinol (an acronym for Nickel Titanium Naval Ordnance Laboratories). Their remarkable properties were discovered by accident. A sample that was bent out of shape many times was presented at a laboratory management meeting. One of the associate technical directors, Dr. David S. Muzzey, decided to see what would happen if the sample was subjected to heat and held his pipe lighter underneath it. To everyone's amazement the sample stretched back to its original shape.\n\nThere is another type of SMA, called a ferromagnetic shape-memory alloy (FSMA), that changes shape under strong magnetic fields. These materials are of particular interest as the magnetic response tends to be faster and more efficient than temperature-induced responses.\n\nMetal alloys are not the only thermally-responsive materials; shape-memory polymers have also been developed, and became commercially available in the late 1990s.\n\nMany metals have several different crystal structures at the same composition, but most metals do not show this shape-memory effect. The special property that allows shape-memory alloys to revert to their original shape after heating is that their crystal transformation is fully reversible. In most crystal transformations, the atoms in the structure will travel through the metal by diffusion, changing the composition locally, even though the metal as a whole is made of the same atoms. A reversible transformation does not involve this diffusion of atoms, instead all the atoms shift at the same time to form a new structure, much in the way a parallelogram can be made out of a square by pushing on two opposing sides. At different temperatures, different structures are preferred and when the structure is cooled through the transition temperature, the martensitic structure forms from the austenitic phase.\n\nShape-memory alloys are typically made by casting, using vacuum arc melting or induction melting. These are specialist techniques used to keep impurities in the alloy to a minimum and ensure the metals are well mixed. The ingot is then hot rolled into longer sections and then drawn to turn it into wire.\n\nThe way in which the alloys are \"trained\" depends on the properties wanted. The \"training\" dictates the shape that the alloy will remember when it is heated. This occurs by heating the alloy so that the dislocations re-order into stable positions, but not so hot that the material recrystallizes. They are heated to between and for 30 minutes, shaped while hot, and then are cooled rapidly by quenching in water or by cooling with air.\n\nThe copper-based and NiTi-based shape-memory alloys are considered to be engineering materials. These compositions can be manufactured to almost any shape and size.\n\nThe yield strength of shape-memory alloys is lower than that of conventional steel, but some compositions have a higher yield strength than plastic or aluminum. The yield stress for Ni Ti can reach . The high cost of the metal itself and the processing requirements make it difficult and expensive to implement SMAs into a design. As a result, these materials are used in applications where the super elastic properties or the shape-memory effect can be exploited. The most common application is in actuation.\n\nOne of the advantages to using shape-memory alloys is the high level of recoverable plastic strain that can be induced. The maximum recoverable strain these materials can hold without permanent damage is up to for some alloys. This compares with a maximum strain for conventional steels.\n\nSMA have many advantages over traditional actuators, but do suffer from a series of limitations that may impede practical application. In numerous studies, it was emphasised that only a few of patented shape memory alloy applications are commercially successful due to material limitations combined with a lack of material and design knowledge and associated tools, such as improper design approaches and techniques used. The challenges in designing SMA applications are to overcome their limitations, which include a relatively small usable strain, low actuation frequency, low controllability, low accuracy and low energy efficiency.\n\nSMA actuators are typically actuated electrically, where an electric current results in Joule heating. Deactivation typically occurs by free convective heat transfer to the ambient environment. Consequently, SMA actuation is typically asymmetric, with a relatively fast actuation time and a slow deactuation time. A number of methods have been proposed to reduce SMA deactivation time, including forced convection, and lagging the SMA with a conductive material in order to manipulate the heat transfer rate.\n\nNovel methods to enhance the feasibility of SMA actuators include the use of a conductive \"lagging\". this method uses a thermal paste to rapidly transfer heat from the SMA by conduction. This heat is then more readily transferred to the environment by convection as the outer radii (and heat transfer area) are significantly greater than for the bare wire. This method results in a significant reduction in deactivation time and a symmetric activation profile. As a consequence of the increased heat transfer rate, the required current to achieve a given actuation force is increased.\n\nSMA is subject to structural fatigue – a failure mode by which cyclic loading results in the initiation and propagation of a crack that eventually results in catastrophic loss of function by fracture. The physics behind this fatigue mode is accumulation of microstructural damage during cyclic loading. This failure mode is observed in most engineering materials, not just SMAs.\n\nSMAs are also subject to functional fatigue, a failure mode not typical of most engineering materials, whereby the SMA does not fail structurally but loses its shape-memory/superelastic characteristics over time. As a result of cyclic loading (both mechanical and thermal), the material loses its ability to undergo a reversible phase transformation. For example, the working displacement in an actuator decreases with increasing cycle numbers. The physics behind this is gradual change in microstructure—more specifically, the buildup of accommodation slip dislocations. This is often accompanied by a significant change in transformation temperatures. Design of SMA actuators may also influence both structural and functional fatigue of SMA, such as the pulley configurations in SMA-Pulley system.\n\nSMA actuators are typically actuated electrically by Joule heating. If the SMA is used in an environment where the ambient temperature is uncontrolled, unintentional actuation by ambient heating may occur.\n\nBoeing, General Electric Aircraft Engines, Goodrich Corporation, NASA, Texas A&M University and All Nippon Airways developed the Variable Geometry Chevron using a NiTi SMA. Such a variable area fan nozzle (VAFN) design would allow for quieter and more efficient jet engines in the future. In 2005 and 2006, Boeing conducted successful flight testing of this technology.\n\nSMAs are being explored as vibration dampers for launch vehicles and commercial jet engines. The large amount of hysteresis observed during the superelastic effect allow SMAs to dissipate energy and dampen vibrations. These materials show promise for reducing the high vibration loads on payloads during launch as well as on fan blades in commercial jet engines, allowing for more lightweight and efficient designs. SMAs also exhibit potential for other high shock applications such as ball bearings and landing gear.\n\nThere is also strong interest in using SMAs for a variety of actuator applications in commercial jet engines, which would significantly reduce their weight and boost efficiency. Further research needs to be conducted in this area, however, to increase the transformation temperatures and improve the mechanical properties of these materials before they can be successfully implemented. A review of recent advances in high-temperature shape-memory alloys (HTSMAs) is presented by Ma et al.\n\nA variety of wing-morphing technologies are also being explored.\n\nThe first high-volume product (> 5Mio actuators / year) is an automotive valve used to control low pressure pneumatic bladders in a car seat that adjust the contour of the lumbar support / bolsters. The overall benefits of SMA over traditionally-used solenoids in this application (lower noise/EMC/weight/form factor/power consumption) were the crucial factor in the decision to replace the old standard technology with SMA.\n\nThe 2014 Chevrolet Corvette became the first vehicle to incorporate SMA actuators, which replaced heavier motorized actuators to open and close the hatch vent that releases air from the trunk, making it easier to close. A variety of other applications are also being targeted, including electric generators to generate electricity from exhaust heat and on-demand air dams to optimize aerodynamics at various speeds.\n\nThere have also been limited studies on using these materials in robotics, for example the hobbyist robot Stiquito (and \"Roboterfrau Lara\"), as they make it possible to create very lightweight robots. Recently, a prosthetic hand was introduced by Loh et al. that can almost replicate the motions of a human hand [Loh2005]. Other biomimetic applications are also being explored. Weak points of the technology are energy inefficiency, slow response times, and large hysteresis.\n\nThere is some SMA-based prototypes of robotic hand that using shape memory effect (SME) to move fingers .\n\nSMAs find a variety of applications in civil structures such as bridges and buildings. One such application is Intelligent Reinforced Concrete (IRC), which incorporates SMA wires embedded within the concrete. These wires can sense cracks and contract to heal macro-sized cracks. Another application is active tuning of structural natural frequency using SMA wires to dampen vibrations.\n\nThe first consumer commercial application was a shape-memory coupling for piping, e.g. oil line pipes for industrial applications, water pipes and similar types of piping for consumer/commercial applications.\n\nThe second high volume application was an autofocus (AF) actuator for a smart phone. There are currently several companies working on an optical image stabilisation (OIS) module driven by wires made from SMAs\n\nShape-memory alloys are applied in medicine, for example, as fixation devices for osteotomies in orthopaedic surgery, in dental braces to exert constant tooth-moving forces on the teeth, and in Capsule Endoscopy they can be used as a trigger for biopsy action.\n\nThe late 1980s saw the commercial introduction of Nitinol as an enabling technology in a number of minimally invasive endovascular medical applications. While more costly than stainless steel, the self expanding properties of Nitinol alloys manufactured to BTR (Body Temperature Response), have provided an attractive alternative to balloon expandable devices in stent grafts where it gives the ability to adapt to the shape of certain blood vessels when exposed to body temperature. On average, of all peripheral vascular stents currently available on the worldwide market are manufactured with Nitinol.\n\nEyeglass frames made from titanium-containing SMAs are marketed under the trademarks Flexon and TITANflex. These frames are usually made out of shape-memory alloys that have their transition temperature set below the expected room temperature. This allows the frames to undergo large deformation under stress, yet regain their intended shape once the metal is unloaded again. The very large apparently elastic strains are due to the stress-induced martensitic effect, where the crystal structure can transform under loading, allowing the shape to change temporarily under load. This means that eyeglasses made of shape-memory alloys are more robust against being accidentally damaged.\n\nMemory metal has been utilized in orthopedic surgery as a fixation-compression device for osteotomies, typically for lower extremity procedures. The device, usually in the form of a large staple, is stored in a refrigerator in its malleable form and is implanted into pre-drilled holes in the bone across an osteotomy. As the staple warms it returns to its non-malleable state and compresses the bony surfaces together to promote bone union.\n\nThe range of applications for SMAs has grown over the years, a major area of development being dentistry. One example is the prevalence of dental braces using SMA technology to exert constant tooth-moving forces on the teeth; the nitinol archwire was developed in 1972 by orthodontist George Andreasen. This revolutionized clinical orthodontics. Andreasen's alloy has a patterned shape memory, expanding and contracting within given temperature ranges because of its geometric programming.\n\nHarmeet D. Walia later utilized the alloy in the manufacture of root canal files for endodontics.\n\nTraditional active cancellation techniques for tremor reduction use electrical, hydraulic, or pneumatic systems to actuate an object in the direction opposite to the disturbance. However, these systems are limited due to the large infrastructure required to produce large amplitudes of power at human tremor frequencies. SMAs have proven to be an effective method of actuation in hand-held applications, and have enabled a new class active tremor cancellation devices. One recent example of such device is the Liftware spoon, developed by Verily Life Sciences subsidiary Lift Labs.\nExperimental solid state heat engines, operating from the relatively small temperature differences in cold and hot water reservoirs, have been developed since the 1970s, including the Banks Engine, developed by Ridgway Banks.\n\nSold in small round lengths for use in affixment-free bracelets.\n\nA variety of alloys exhibit the shape-memory effect. Alloying constituents can be adjusted to control the transformation temperatures of the SMA. Some common systems include the following (by no means an exhaustive list):\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20632348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20632348", "title": "SkyScout", "text": "SkyScout\n\nThe SkyScout is an electronic astronomical instrument made by Celestron. It is intended primarily as an educational device to help users locate and identify celestial objects.\n\nThe SkyScout is a handheld, battery powered device about 7.4\" x 4.0\" x 2.5\", and weighs about 1 pound. It has a viewing port, a 3\" x 1\" LCD display on the side and several buttons for controlling and selecting device functions.\n\nThe SkyScout has a 12 channel GPS receiver and orientation sensors that measure location and pointing angle. From an internal database of some 6,000 celestial objects an object is identified simply by centering it in the device's zero-power optical finder and pressing a button. The LCD screen displays the name of the object (star, planet, deep sky object, etc.) and other relevant data. An audio presentation is available via earphones on 200 of the most popular celestial objects.\n\nThe SkyScout will also locate an object; the user selects the desired object from the database and red arrows in the viewfinder direct the user to point the viewfinder to the object. The SkyScout also features a \"Tonight's Highlights\" mode, leading the user through the night's best objects.\n\nThe database can be expanded with extra plug-in SD data cards. A USB connection is also provided for online updates of the object database and device firmware.\n\nThe SkyScout was announced at the January 2006 Consumer Electronics Show, and became available in July 2006. It has a retail cost of $675, but is available at prices as low as $250.\n\nSkyscout has been known to scratch easily, and battery life is short at about one-half hour. .\nThe sensors inside of it were far too twitchy around anything metal and made it difficult to use. The advent of iPhone/Android and associated astronomy apps have somewhat eliminated the need for this device. Note: the Celestron SkyScout's database extended up to Jan 1, 2016. The SkyScout is unsupported by Celestron and no longer works as designed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "541448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541448", "title": "Slavic folklore", "text": "Slavic folklore\n\nSlavic folklore encompasses the folklore of the Slavic peoples from their earliest records until today. Folklorists have published a variety of works focused specifically on the topic over the years.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16045065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16045065", "title": "Small Astronomy Satellite 2", "text": "Small Astronomy Satellite 2\n\nThe Small Astronomy Satellite 2, also known also as SAS-2, SAS B or Explorer 48, was a NASA gamma ray telescope. It was launched on 15 November 1972 into the low Earth orbit with a periapsis of 443 km and an apoapsis of 632 km. It completed its observations on 8 June 1973.\n\nSAS 2 was the second in the series of small spacecraft designed to extend the astronomical studies in the X-ray, gamma-ray, ultraviolet, visible, and infrared regions. The primary objective of the SAS-B was to measure the spatial and energy distribution of primary galactic and extragalactic gamma radiation which energies between 20 and 300 MeV. The instrumentation consisted principally of a guard scintillation detector, an upper and a lower spark chamber, and a charged particle telescope.\n\nSAS-2 was launched from the San Marco platform off the coast of Kenya, Africa, into a nearly equatorial orbit. The orbiting spacecraft was in the shape of a cylinder approximately 59 cm in diameter and 135 cm in length. Four solar paddles were used to recharge the 6 amp-h nickel-cadmium battery and provide power to the spacecraft and telescope experiment. The spacecraft was spin stabilized, and a magnetically torqued commandable control system was used to point the spin axis of the spacecraft to any position in space within approximately 1 degree. The experiment axis lay along this axis allowing the telescope to look at any selected region of the sky with its plus or minus 30 degree acceptance aperture. The nominal spin rate was 1/12 rpm. Data were taken at 1000 bit/s and could be recorded on an onboard tape recorder and simultaneously transmitted in real time. The recorded data were transmitted once per orbit. This required approximately 5 minutes.\n\nThe telescope experiment was initially turned on Nov 20 1972, and by Nov 27 1972, the spacecraft became fully operational. The low-voltage power supply for the experiment failed on Jun 8 1973. No useful scientific data were obtained after that date. With the exception of a slightly degraded star sensor, the spacecraft control section performed in an excellent manner.\n\nSAS-2 first detected Geminga, a pulsar believed to be the remnant of a supernova that exploded 300,000 years ago.\n\n"}
{"id": "43132365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43132365", "title": "Snellius Expedition", "text": "Snellius Expedition\n\nThe Snellius Expedition was an oceanography expedition organized by the Dutch with emphasis on the fields of geology and oceanography in the waters of eastern Indonesia. This expedition is famous as the largest oceanological expedition ever undertaken in these waters. The expedition was conducted by the Dutch navy ship, named HNMS Willebrord Snell, named after the Dutch mathematician, Willebrord Snell. The expedition was led by Dr. P.M. van Riel and the sea voyage led by Lieutenant F. Pinke. This study took place from July 27, 1929 until 25 November 1930.\n"}
{"id": "58723798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58723798", "title": "Theresa Secord", "text": "Theresa Secord\n\nTheresa Secord (born 1958) is an artist, basketmaker, geologist and activist from Penobscot, Maine. She is a member of the Penobscot nation, and the great-granddaughter of the well-known weaver Philomene Saulis Nelson. She was the director of the Maine Indian Basketmakers Alliance in Bar Harbor, Maine. Her work has been shown at the Hudson Museum at the University of Maine, at the National Museum of the American Indian in New York, and at the Southwest Museum of the American Indian in Los Angeles. In 2009, she received the Community Spirit Award from the First Peoples Fund. She was named a 2016 National Heritage Fellow by the National Endowment for the Arts, and the 2017 Bernard Osher Lecture speaker at the Portland Museum of Art. She received the \"Prize for Women's Creativity in Rural Life\" by the Women's World Summit Foundation in 2003.\n\nShe is the granddaughter of the renowned Penobscot dancer, actress and writer Molly Spotted Elk, and her great-grandmother is Philomene Saulis Nelson, considered an \"acclaimed weaver.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "9920876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9920876", "title": "Undefined (mathematics)", "text": "Undefined (mathematics)\n\nIn mathematics, undefined has several different meanings, depending on the context. Such contexts include the following, among others:\n\nIn ancient times, geometers attempted to define every term. For example, Euclid defined a point as \"that which has no part\". In modern times, mathematicians recognize that attempting to define every word inevitably leads to circular definitions, and therefore leave some terms, \"point\" for example, undefined (see primitive notion).\n\nThis more abstract approach allows for fruitful generalizations. In topology, a topological space may be defined as a set of points endowed with certain properties, but in the general setting the nature of these \"points\" is left entirely undefined. Likewise, in category theory a category consists of \"objects\" and \"arrows\"; again, these are primitive, undefined terms. This allows such abstract mathematical theories to be applied to very diverse concrete situations.\n\nThe expression 0/0 is undefined in arithmetic, as explained in division by zero (the expression is used in calculus to represent an indeterminate form).\n\nMathematicians have different opinions as to whether 0 should be defined to equal 1, or be left undefined; see Zero to the power of zero for details.\n\nThe set of numbers for which a function is defined is called the \"domain\" of the function. If a number is not in the domain of a function, the function is said to be \"undefined\" for that number. Two common examples are formula_4, which is undefined for formula_5, and formula_6, which is undefined (in the real number system) for negative formula_7.\n\nIn trigonometry, formula_8 and formula_9 are undefined for all formula_10, and formula_11 and formula_12 are undefined for all formula_13.\n\nIn computability theory, if \"f\" is a partial function on \"S\" and \"a\" is an element of \"S\", then this is written as \"f\"(\"a\")↓ and is read as \"\"f\"(\"a\") is \"defined\".\" \n\nIf \"a\" is not in the domain of \"f\", then this is written as \"f\"(\"a\")↑ and is read as \"\"f\"(\"a\") is \"undefined\"\".\n\nIn analysis, measure theory, and other mathematical disciplines, the symbol formula_14 is frequently used to denote an infinite pseudo-number in real analysis, along with its negative, formula_15. The symbol has no well-defined meaning by itself, but an expression like formula_16 is shorthand for a divergent sequence, which at some point is eventually larger than any given real number.\n\nPerforming standard arithmetic operations with the symbols formula_17 is undefined. Some extensions, though, define the following conventions of addition and multiplication:\n\nNo sensible extension of addition and multiplication with formula_14 exists in the following cases:\n\nSee extended real number line for more information.\n\nIn complex analysis, a point formula_29 where a holomorphic function is undefined is called a singularity. One distinguishes between removable singularities (the function can be extended holomorphically to formula_30, poles (the function can be extended meromorphically to formula_30), and essential singularities, where no meromorphic extension to formula_30 exists.\n\n"}
{"id": "526903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=526903", "title": "Vladimir Kovalyonok", "text": "Vladimir Kovalyonok\n\nVladimir Vasiliyevich Kovalyonok (; ; born March 3, 1942 in Beloye, Minsk Oblast, Belorussian SSR, is a retired Soviet cosmonaut.\n\nHe entered the Soviet space programme on July 5, 1967 and was commander of three missions. He retired from the cosmonaut team on June 23, 1984.\n\nFrom 1990 to 1992 he was a Director of the 30th Central Scientific Research Institute, Ministry of Defence (Russia).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39334096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39334096", "title": "World manifold", "text": "World manifold\n\nIn gravitation theory, a world manifold endowed with some Lorentzian pseudo-Riemannian metric and an associated space-time structure is a space-time. Gravitation theory is formulated as classical field theory on natural bundles over a world manifold.\n\nA world manifold is a four-dimensional orientable real smooth manifold. It is assumed to be a Hausdorff and second countable topological space. Consequently, it is a locally compact space which is a union of a countable number of compact subsets, a separable space, a paracompact and completely regular space. Being paracompact, a world manifold admits a partition of unity by smooth functions. It should be emphasized that paracompactness is an essential characteristic of a world manifold. It is necessary and sufficient in order that a world manifold admits a Riemannian metric and necessary for the existence of a pseudo-Riemannian metric. A world manifold is assumed to be connected and, consequently, it is arcwise connected.\n\nThe tangent bundle formula_1 of a world manifold formula_2 and the associated principal frame bundle formula_3 of linear tangent frames in formula_1 possess a general linear group structure group formula_5. A world manifold formula_2 is said to be parallelizable if the tangent bundle formula_1 and, accordingly, the frame bundle formula_3 are trivial, i.e., there exists a global section (a frame field) of formula_3. It is essential that the tangent and associated bundles over a world manifold admit a bundle atlas of finite number of trivialization charts.\n\nTangent and frame bundles over a world manifold are natural bundles characterized by general covariant transformations. These transformations are gauge symmetries of gravitation theory on a world manifold.\n\nBy virtue of the well-known theorem on structure group reduction, a structure group formula_5 of a frame bundle formula_3 over a world manifold formula_2 is always reducible to its maximal compact subgroup formula_13. The corresponding global section of the quotient bundle formula_14 is a Riemannian metric formula_15 on formula_2. Thus, a world manifold always admits a Riemannian metric which makes formula_2 a metric topological space.\n\nIn accordance with the geometric Equivalence Principle, a world manifold possesses a Lorentzian structure, i.e., a structure group of a frame bundle formula_3 must be reduced to a Lorentz group formula_19. The corresponding global section of the quotient bundle formula_20 is a pseudo-Riemannian metric formula_21 of signature formula_22 on formula_2. It is treated as a gravitational field in General Relativity and as a classical Higgs field in gauge gravitation theory.\n\nA Lorentzian structure need not exist. Therefore, a world manifold is assumed to satisfy a certain topological condition. It is either a noncompact topological space or a compact space with a zero Euler characteristic. Usually, one also requires that a world manifold admits a spinor structure in order to describe Dirac fermion fields in gravitation theory. There is the additional topological obstruction to the existence of this structure. In particular, a noncompact world manifold must be parallelizable.\n\nIf a structure group of a frame bundle formula_3 is reducible to a Lorentz group, the latter is always reducible to its maximal compact subgroup formula_25. Thus, there is the commutative diagram\n\nof the reduction of structure groups of a frame bundle formula_3 in\ngravitation theory. This reduction diagram results in the following.\n\n(i) In gravitation theory on a world manifold formula_2, one can always choose an atlas of a frame bundle formula_3 (characterized by local frame fields formula_32) with formula_25-valued transition functions. These transition functions preserve a time-like component formula_34 of local frame fields which, therefore, is globally defined. It is a nowhere vanishing vector field on formula_2. Accordingly, the dual time-like covector field formula_36 also is globally defined, and it yields a spatial distribution\nformula_37 on formula_2 such that formula_39. Then the tangent bundle formula_1 of a world manifold formula_2 admits a space-time decomposition\nformula_42, where formula_43 is a one-dimensional fibre bundle spanned by a time-like vector field formula_44. This decomposition, is called the formula_21-compatible \"space-time structure\". It makes a world manifold the space-time.\n\n(ii) Given the above-mentioned diagram of reduction of structure groups, let formula_21 and formula_15 be the corresponding\npseudo-Riemannian and Riemannian metrics on formula_2. They form a triple formula_49 obeying the relation\n\nConversely, let a world manifold formula_2 admit a nowhere vanishing\none-form formula_52 (or, equivalently, a nowhere vanishing vector\nfield). Then any Riemannian metric formula_15 on formula_2 yields the\npseudo-Riemannian metric\n\nIt follows that a world manifold formula_2 admits a pseudo-Riemannian\nmetric if and only if there exists a nowhere vanishing vector (or covector) field on formula_2.\n\nLet us note that a formula_21-compatible Riemannian metric formula_15 in a triple formula_49 defines a formula_21-compatible distance function on a world manifold formula_2. Such a function brings formula_2 into a metric space whose locally Euclidean topology is equivalent to a manifold topology on formula_2. Given a gravitational field formula_21, the formula_21-compatible Riemannian metrics and the corresponding distance\nfunctions are different for different spatial distributions formula_67\nand formula_68. It follows that physical observers associated with\nthese different spatial distributions perceive a world manifold formula_2 as different Riemannian spaces. The well-known relativistic changes of sizes of moving bodies exemplify this phenomenon.\n\nHowever, one attempts to derive a world topology directly from a space-time structure (a path topology, an Alexandrov topology). If a space-time satisfies the strong causality condition, such topologies coincide with a familiar manifold topology of a world manifold. In a general case, they however are rather extraordinary.\n\nA space-time structure is called integrable if a spatial distribution formula_67 is involutive. In this case, its integral manifolds constitute a spatial foliation of a world manifold whose leaves are spatial three-dimensional subspaces. A spatial foliation is called causal if no curve transversal to its leaves intersects each leave more than once. This condition is equivalent to the stable causality of Stephen Hawking. A space-time foliation is causal if and only if it is a foliation of level surfaces of some smooth real function on formula_2 whose differential nowhere vanishes. Such a foliation is a fibred manifold formula_72.\nHowever, this is not the case of a compact world manifold which can not be\na fibred manifold over formula_73.\n\nThe stable causality does not provide the simplest causal structure. If a fibred manifold formula_74 is a fibre bundle, it is trivial, i.e., a world manifold formula_2 is a globally hyperbolic manifold formula_76. Since any oriented three-dimensional manifold is parallelizable, a globally\nhyperbolic world manifold is parallelizable.\n\n\n"}
