{"id": "30210363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30210363", "title": "15,16-Dihydroxy-alpha-eleostearic acid", "text": "15,16-Dihydroxy-alpha-eleostearic acid\n\n15,16-Dihydroxy-α-eleostearic acid, or 15,16-Dihydroxy-(9Z,11E,13E)-9,11,13-octadecatrienoic acid, is an organic compound with formula , or HC-CH-(-CH(OH)-)(-CH=CH-)-(-CH-)-(C=O)OH. It can be seen as derived from α-eleostearic acid by the replacement of two hydrogen atoms by two hydroxyl (OH) groups.\n\nThe compound is found in the pulp and seeds of bitter melons (the fruits of \"Momordica charantia\"). It has been found to induce apoptosis in HL60 leukemia cells in vitro at a concentration of 160 μM, although it is less potent in this regard than the unsubstituted α-eleostearic acid (also found in the seed oil). While α-eleostearic acid has been found to prevent carcinogenesis in rats, this derivative does not seem to have that effect.\n\nThe compound can be extracted from the fruit with ethanol, and is soluble in ethyl acetate but not in water or acetone.\n\n"}
{"id": "21526379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21526379", "title": "1984 Balkan Bulgarian Tupolev Tu-134 crash", "text": "1984 Balkan Bulgarian Tupolev Tu-134 crash\n\nThe 1984 Balkan Bulgarian Tupolev Tu-134 crash occurred on 10 January 1984 when a Balkan Bulgarian Airlines Tupolev Tu-134 airliner crashed on an international flight from Berlin Schönefeld Airport in Schönefeld, East Germany, to Sofia Airport in Sofia, Bulgaria. All fifty on board were killed.\n\nWhile on approach to Sofia Airport in heavy snow, the crew failed to make visual contact with the ground as they descended below decision altitude. The crew attempted to overshoot for an altitude of , but the aircraft hit a power line and crashed from the runway into a forest. The aircraft was destroyed with no survivors.\n\nThirty-eight passengers and the crew were Bulgarians, the other seven on the flight were East Germans.\n\n"}
{"id": "26977557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26977557", "title": "Air travel disruption after the 2010 Eyjafjallajökull eruption", "text": "Air travel disruption after the 2010 Eyjafjallajökull eruption\n\nIn response to concerns that volcanic ash ejected during the 2010 eruptions of Eyjafjallajökull in Iceland would damage aircraft engines, the controlled airspace of many European countries was closed to instrument flight rules traffic, resulting in the largest air-traffic shut-down since World War II. The closures caused millions of passengers to be stranded not only in Europe, but across the world. With large parts of European airspace closed to air traffic, many more countries were affected as flights to, from, and over Europe were cancelled.\n\nAfter an initial uninterrupted shutdown over much of northern Europe from 15 to 23 April, airspace was closed intermittently in different parts of Europe in the following weeks, as the path of the ash cloud was tracked. The ash cloud caused further disruptions to air travel operations in Ireland, Northern Ireland, and Scotland on 4 and 5 May and in Spain, Portugal, northern Italy, Austria, and southern Germany on 9 May. Irish and UK airspace closed again on 16 May and reopened on 17 May.\n\nThe eruption occurred beneath glacial ice. The cold water from the melting ice chilled the lava quickly, causing it to fragment into very small particles of glass (silica) and ash, which were carried into the eruption plume. The extremely fine ash particles and the large volume of steam from the glacial meltwater sent an ash plume hazardous to aircraft rapidly high into the upper atmosphere. The presence and location of the plume depended upon the state of the eruption and the winds. The large amount of glacial meltwater flowing into the eruption vent made this eruption so explosive that it injected its ash plume directly into the jet stream, which was unusually stable and south-easterly. The ash was then carried over Europe into some of the busiest airspace in the world.\n\nThe International Air Transport Association (IATA) estimated that the airline industry worldwide would lose (, ) a day during the disruption. IATA stated that the total loss for the airline industry was around US$1.7 billion (£1.1 billion, €1.3 billion). The Airport Operators Association (AOA) estimated that airports lost £80 million over the six-and-a-half days. Over 95,000 flights had been cancelled all across Europe during the six-day travel ban, with later figures suggesting 107,000 flights cancelled during an 8-day period, accounting for 48% of total air traffic and roughly 10 million passengers.\n\nThe London Volcanic Ash Advisory Centre (VAAC) was responsible for providing information about the ash plume to the relevant civil aviation authorities in the form of Volcanic Ash Advisories (VAA). On the basis of this, the authorities made decisions about when and where airspace should be closed due to the safety issues. Their decisions resulted in the cancellations of flights at airports across the world, not only in those countries where airspace was restricted. On 16 April 2010, 16,000 of Europe's usual 28,000 daily scheduled passenger flights were cancelled and on the following day 16,000 of the usual 22,000 flights were cancelled. By 21 April 95,000 flights had been cancelled.\n\nBefore this, the severest restrictions to air travel in recent times were following the attacks of 11 September 2001 in the United States when all civil air traffic (not just scheduled) in US airspace, and to and from the United States, was grounded for three days.\n\nProfessor Bill McGuire of the Aon Benfield UCL Hazard Research Centre said on 15 April that the most notable eruption of the Icelandic volcano Laki which occurred in 1783, would, if it occurred today \"have the potential to severely affect air travel at high northern latitudes for six months or more\". The last time the Eyjafjallajökull volcano erupted, in 1821, it spewed ash for over a year. Geophysicists in Iceland said that the production of ash from Eyjafjallajökull was likely to continue at a comparable level for some days or even weeks; a geophysicist at the Icelandic Meteorological Office said, \"Where it disrupts travel depends on the weather. It depends how the wind carries the ash\".\n\nIn 1982, British Airways Flight 9 flew through volcanic ash of Mount Galunggung, Java, Indonesia, causing all 4 engines to shut down. However, the crew restarted all but one of the engines and landed safely. Subsequently, there was an addition to the operations manuals, describing how to deal with volcanic ash.\n\nIceland's authorities had been warning the airlines for several years, asking them to determine the density of ash that is safe for their jet engines.\n\nBut before the volcanic events of April 2010, aircraft engine manufacturers still had not defined specific particle levels above which engines were considered to be at risk. The general approach taken by airspace regulators was that if the ash concentration rose above zero, then the airspace was considered unsafe and was consequently closed.\n\nThe April eruption of Eyjafjallajökull caused enough economic difficulties that aircraft manufacturers were forced to define specific limits on how much ash is considered acceptable for a jet engine to ingest without damage. On 21 April, the CAA in conjunction with engine manufacturers, set new guidelines which allowed aircraft to fly when there are levels of volcanic ash between 200 and 2000 microgrammes of ash per cubic metre. These levels were declared by governments, aircraft manufacturers, and airlines not to have safety implications if appropriate maintenance and ash inspection procedures were followed.\n\nFrom noon 18 May, the CAA further revised the safe limit upwards to 4 milligrams per cubic metre of air space. Any airspace in which the ash density exceeds this limit is categorised as a no fly zone.\n\nTo minimise the level of further disruption that this and other volcanic eruptions could cause, the CAA announced the creation of a new category of restricted airspace called a Time Limited Zone (TLZ). Airspace categorised as TLZ is similar to airspace experiencing severe weather in that the restrictions are expected to be of a short duration; however, the key difference with TLZ airspace is that airlines must produce certificates of compliance in order for their aircraft to enter these areas. Flybe was the first airline to conform to these regulations and their aircraft will be permitted to enter airspace in which the ash density is between 2 mg and 4 mg per cubic metre.\n\nUnder international regulations, all scheduled passenger flights operate under the instrument flight rules (IFR) which requires clearance to be obtained from air traffic control. From 14 April onwards, the controlled airspace was closed in several European countries and no IFR clearances were granted. The airspace of Iceland itself was hardly disrupted in this period (although a change in the wind direction on 23 April caused the main airport to be closed).\n\nBy 23 April, the restrictions were lifted over much of Europe through the introduction of new guidelines on volcanic ash density. After this date there were sporadic closures from time to time, notably in the UK, Ireland, and Iceland, but not a blanket shutdown.\n\nAlmost every country with an international airport experienced some disruption due to flights to or from Europe being canceled. Outside Europe, Canada, Russia, and Kazakhstan were the only countries to deal with a risk from ash clouds in their airspace.\n\nThe Canadian airspace was never closed or restricted because of volcanic ash. Although the UK Met Office map of 21 April shows the ash cloud reaching Labrador, Newfoundland, the Maritime provinces, far eastern Quebec, and the Gulf of St. Lawrence, concentrations were expected to be sparse.\n\nOn Monday, 19 April, the combination of heavy fog with a warning by Transport Canada and Nav Canada of a 30% risk of volcanic ash reaching St. John's led to the cancellation of several flights scheduled to leave St. John's International Airport, Gander, and Deer Lake. Because of the heavy fog, it is unclear if the ash cloud warning was really the cause of the cancellations and delays in Newfoundland, and most flights returned to their normal schedule within the day. Air Canada said their flights were \"subject to some delays due to inclement weather, unrelated to ash cloud.\" On Tuesday, 20 April, two Air Canada Jazz flights between the Magdalen Islands and Quebec City cancelled stop-offs in Gaspé because of ash over the Michel-Pouliot Gaspé Airport.\n\nMost airspace started to close from 15 April. However, in the days following there were brief windows free of the cloud at different locations which were exploited to make a few aircraft movements. There then followed test flights and pressure grew to re-evaluate the criteria for safe levels of ash to fly through.\n\nOn 16 April a 30-minute break at Manchester allowed two flights to land, and one aircraft to be moved to Florida, empty (as there was no time for passengers to board). At Glasgow, an Air Transat flight to Toronto took off while a British Airways flight from New York, and a Thomas Cook flight from Orlando and Icelandair flights from Keflavik landed.\n\nOn 17 April 2010, the president of German airline Air Berlin, in an interview with the newspaper Bild am Sonntag, stated that the risks for flights due to this volcanic haze were nonexistent, because the assessment was based only on a computer simulation produced by the VAAC. He went on to claim that the Luftfahrt-Bundesamt closed German airspace without checking the accuracy of these simulations. Spokesmen for Lufthansa and KLM stated that during their test flights, required by the European Union, there were no problems with the aircraft. On the morning of 17 April Lufthansa moved 10 aircraft from Munich to Frankfurt at low altitude following visual flight rules. There were no problems reported and no sign of damage to the planes. The same day, an Airbus belonging to Ural Airlines attempted flying below the ash clouds from Moscow to Rimini. When the airplane was in Austrian airspace, the crew reported being low on fuel and diverted to Vienna, where the airplane landed safely.\n\nOn the morning of 18 April KLM successfully carried out a test flight from Amsterdam to Düsseldorf with no problems. Afterwards, seven KLM planes with no passengers returned from Düsseldorf to Amsterdam. Air France also performed a test flight from Paris to Toulouse. In the evening of 18 April German airspace was partially re-opened for a period of 3 hours allowing a plane of stranded holidaymakers from Faro, Portugal to land at Hanover.\n\nThe vice president of the Dutch pilots union said \"We are asking the authorities to really have a good look at the situation, because 100 per cent safety does not exist,\" Mr. Verhagen continued. \"It's easy to close down air space because then it's perfectly safe, but at some time you have to resume flights.\"\n\nIn the afternoon of 19 April, German carriers Lufthansa and Air Berlin obtained permission for some flights from and to German airports under Visual Flight Rules. Lufthansa started sending planes to long-haul destination in order to return stranded passengers later that day.\n\nLate on 19 April and early on 20 April, some flights were permitted to take off in northern Europe, including from Scotland and northern England, but Manchester Airport, that had planned to open on 20 April, remained closed because of a new ash cloud. The Civil Aviation Authority announced that all UK airports would be permitted to open from 2200 on 20 April. Twenty-six British Airways long-haul flights were already in the air and requesting permission to land.\n\nBy 20–21 April several airlines confirmed that \"air service will be resumed in stages\" and started publishing lists of selected flights that were \"most likely to be operated\" within one single day. \"Effective Thursday, 22 April, Lufthansa will resume normal flight operations and offer you the usual reliability\", claimed the airline at 15:30 on 21 April.\n\nThe closure of the airspace left five million travelers stranded around the world, of which up to a million were British according to ABTA. Several thousand passengers were stranded in Asia, the United States, and Australia. Disruption was greater than that after the 11 September attacks, for example:\n\n\nStranded passengers were not necessarily given priority over new passengers for return flights. British Airways told passengers in India and China that any free seats were being sold on the open market, and advised them to buy new tickets and seek reimbursement on return.\n\nIn addition to being stranded, some travelers also encountered issues with their visas after arriving at destinations unexpectedly:\n\nOn 17 April the UK Border Agency announced that it would make allowances for travellers who were unable to leave the UK and whose visas had expired, provided that evidence of travel reservations during the travel disruption was presented. Belarus, Serbia, Finland, and Russia also eased visa formalities for affected passengers.\n\nPassengers destined for countries where airspace was closed had to switch to other modes of transport, possibly via airports still open in Portugal, Morocco, and Turkey to the east. Once inside Europe, many people tried to reach their final destination by train or road. People hired coaches, hire cars, and taxis while the train companies reported a large increase in passenger numbers. Eurostar passenger trains were solidly booked, the Eurotunnel car-carrying trains which run through the Channel Tunnel were very busy, and additional services were scheduled. Travel conditions in France were compounded by an ongoing rail strike affecting long-distance trains.\n\nMost UK and Irish ferry routes were exceptionally busy and coach operator Bus Éireann arranged extra Eurolines services between Ireland and England via ferry. \n\nThe websites Twitter and Facebook, as well as other sites like Roadsharing, were used to arrange alternative travel plans involving boats and ships, trains, and other forms of transportation such as cars, as well as to try to find rooms for the night in the cities where they were stuck. As an alternative to face-to-face business meetings, videoconferencing was also used by the European Union, governments, and companies.\n\nMany people who had to travel, particularly those stranded while away from their home countries, faced large costs for unanticipated travel and accommodation at a time of scarcity. Some costs were covered by compensation from airlines and travel insurance, although there were many disputes over payments. Some people incurred large taxicab fares over long distances, such as John Cleese, who took a taxi from Oslo to Brussels.\n\nOn 18 April British ministers announced a plan for flights to land and take off in Spain, and to transport passengers by sea to the United Kingdom. On 19 April the cabinet crisis response committee (COBRA) decided that Royal Navy ships should be utilised to repatriate stranded British travellers, in Operation Cunningham. HMS \"Ark Royal\", HMS \"Ocean\", and HMS \"Albion\" were deployed, but only Albion was directly involved in repatriation.\n\nAfter the disruption in transatlantic flight, the Cunard Line said its volume of calls inquiring about booking passage on its ocean liner RMS \"Queen Mary 2\" by stranded air passengers wishing to cross by ship had tripled since the weekend of 16 April.\n\nThere was much criticism by airlines, which suffered large financial losses, of the airspace closures as unnecessary; however, the EU transport presidency disagreed, saying that \"This situation is causing them important losses, but safety is paramount\".\n\nSome military aircraft which flew during the period of closure suffered engine damage, although no crashes were reported.\n\nOn 15 April, five Finnish Air Force F-18 fighter jets on exercise flew into the ash cloud in northern Finland. Volcanic dust was found on the engines of three of the aircraft and a further inspection revealed extensive damage by molten glass deposits inside the combustion chamber of one of the engines. The engines were sent for disassembly and overhaul. As a result, all unnecessary military flights were cancelled except for identification flights to enforce sovereign airspace. Meanwhile, a BAE Hawk trainer with special equipment to sample the volcanic dust was being flown from the 41st squadron in Kauhava. Even short test flights with an F-18 revealed engine damage sufficient to destroy engines.\n\nOn 19 April, NATO reported finding molten glass in the engines of at least one F-16, the result of flying through the ash cloud, leading to the scaling-down of U.S. military exercises.\nRoyal Air Force flights to Selly Oak Hospital in Birmingham were grounded, and the United Kingdom Ministry of Defence considered flying British casualties of the Afghan War to coalition countries.\n\nOn 23 April it was announced that British Royal Air Force training flights had been suspended following volcanic ash damage to the engines of Eurofighter Typhoon aircraft.\n\nThe disruption accelerated the integration of the national air traffic control systems into the Single European Sky and the immediate creation of a crisis coordination group to handle future transportation disruptions.\n\nThe ash indirectly affected many scheduled cultural and sporting events because key participants were unable to attend, including the funeral of Polish president Lech Kaczyński in Kraków on 18 April 2010. The funeral was to have been attended by 69 presidents, prime ministers, and other heads of states. Almost half of these, including Barack Obama, Angela Merkel, José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero, Stephen Harper, and Nicolas Sarkozy, were unable to travel to Poland because of the disrupted air traffic.\n\nThere was also a wider impact on the economies of several countries. However, there were some environmental advantages arising from a saving of around 1.3 to 2.8 million tonnes of carbon dioxide emissions.\n\nThe following maps, with the volcano in red, depict the progress of the ash cloud during the period of disruption.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3219865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3219865", "title": "Barium titanate", "text": "Barium titanate\n\nBarium titanate is an inorganic compound with chemical formula BaTiO. Barium titanate appears white as a powder and is transparent when prepared as large crystals. It is a ferroelectric ceramic material that exhibits the photorefractive effect and piezoelectric properties. It is used in capacitors, electromechanical transducers and nonlinear optics.\n\nThe solid exists in one of five polymorphs depending on temperature. From high to low temperature, these crystal symmetries of the five polymorphs are hexagonal, cubic, tetragonal, orthorhombic, and rhombohedral crystal structure. All of these phases exhibit the ferroelectric effect apart from the cubic phase. The high temperature cubic phase is easiest to describe, as it consists of regular corner-sharing octahedral TiO units that define a cube with O vertices and Ti-O-Ti edges. In the cubic phase, Ba is located at the center of the cube, with a nominal coordination number of 12. Lower symmetry phases are stabilized at lower temperatures and involve movement of the Ba to off-center position. The remarkable properties of this material arise from the cooperative behavior of the Ba ions.\n\nBarium titanate can be synthesized by the relatively simple sol–hydrothermal method. \nBarium titanate can also be manufactured by heating barium carbonate and titanium dioxide. The reaction proceeds via liquid phase sintering. Single crystals can be grown at around 1100 °C from molten potassium fluoride. Other materials are often added as dopants, e.g., Sr to giveform solid solutions with strontium titanate. It reacts with nitrogen trichloride and produces a greenish or gray mixture; the ferroelectric properties of the mixture are still present in this form.\n\nMuch effort has been spent studying the relationship between particle morphology and its properties. Fully dense nanocrystalline barium titanate has 40% higher permittivity than the same material prepared in classic ways. The addition of inclusions of barium titanate to tin has been shown to produce a bulk material with a higher viscoelastic stiffness than that of diamonds. Barium titanate goes through two phase transitions that change the crystal shape and volume. This phase change leads to composites where the barium titanates have a negative bulk modulus (Young's modulus), meaning that when a force acts on the inclusions, there is displacement in the opposite direction, further stiffening the composite.\n\nLike many oxides, barium titanate is insoluble in water but attacked by sulfuric acid. Its bulk room-temperature bandgap is 3.2 eV, but this increases to ~3.5 eV when the particle size is reduced from about 15 to 7 nm.\n\nBarium titanate is a dielectric ceramic used in capacitors, with dielectric constant values as high as 7,000. Over a narrow temperature range, values as high as 15,000 are possible; most common ceramic and polymer materials are less than 10, while others, such as titanium dioxide (TiO2), have values between 20 and 70.\n\nIt is a piezoelectric material used in microphones and other transducers. The spontaneous polarization of barium titanate single crystals at room temperature range between 0.15 C/m in earlier studies, and 0.26 C/m in more recent publications, and its Curie temperature is between 120 and 130 °C. The differences are related to the growth technique, with earlier flux grown crystals being less pure than current crystals grown with the Czochralski process, which therefore have a larger spontaneous polarization and a higher Curie temperature.\n\nAs a piezoelectric material, it has been largely replaced by lead zirconate titanate, also known as PZT. Polycrystalline barium titanate has a positive temperature coefficient of resistance, making it a useful material for thermistors and self-regulating electric heating systems.\n\nBarium titanate crystals find use in nonlinear optics. The material has high beam-coupling gain, and can be operated at visible and near-infrared wavelengths. It has the highest reflectivity of the materials used for self-pumped phase conjugation (SPPC) applications. It can be used for continuous-wave four-wave mixing with milliwatt-range optical power. For photorefractive applications, barium titanate can be doped by various other elements, e.g. iron.\n\nThin films of barium titanate display electrooptic modulation to frequencies over 40 GHz.\n\nThe pyroelectric and ferroelectric properties of barium titanate are used in some types of uncooled sensors for thermal cameras.\n\nHigh purity barium titanate powder is reported to be a key component of new barium titanate capacitor energy storage systems for use in electric vehicles.\n\nDue to their elevated biocompatibility, barium titanate nanoparticles (BTNPs) have been recently employed as nanocarriers for drug delivery.\n\nMagnetoelectric effect of giant strengths have been reported in thin films grown on barium titanate substrates.\n\nBarioperovskite is a very rare natural analogue of BaTiO, found as microinclusions in benitoite.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30008566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30008566", "title": "Centrenergo", "text": "Centrenergo\n\nCentrenergo () is a major electric and thermal energy producing companies in central Ukraine and eastern Ukraine. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "57546557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57546557", "title": "China Fusion Engineering Test Reactor", "text": "China Fusion Engineering Test Reactor\n\nThe China Fusion Engineering Test Reactor (CFETR) is a proposed tokamak nuclear fusion reactor in China.\nCFETR construction is planned for the 2020s as a demonstration of the feasibility of large scale fusion power generation.\nThe project would include two phases of operation. \nThe first phase aims to demonstrate steady-state operation and tritium breeding. \nThe second phase would include an update of the system to obtain fusion power production of 1 GW and a fusion gain higher than 12, with tritium self-sufficiency.\n\n"}
{"id": "53713224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53713224", "title": "Computational thermodynamics", "text": "Computational thermodynamics\n\nComputational thermodynamics is the use of computers to simulate thermodynamic problems specific to materials science, particularly used in the construction of phase diagrams. Several open and commercial programs exist to perform these operations. The concept of the technique is minimization of Gibbs free energy of the system; the success of this method is due not only to properly measuring thermodynamic properties, such as those in the list of thermodynamic properties, but also due to the extrapolation of the properties of metastable allotropes of the chemical elements.\n\nThe computational modeling of metal-based phase diagrams, which dates back to the beginning of the previous century mainly by Johannes van Laar and to the modeling of regular solutions, has evolved in more recent years to the CALPHAD (CALculation of PHAse Diagrams). This has been pioneered by American metallurgist Larry Kaufman since the 1970s.\n\nComputational thermodynamics may be considered a part of materials informatics and is a cornerstone of the concepts behind the materials genome project. While crystallographic databases are used mainly as a reference source, thermodynamic databases represent one of the earliest examples of informatics, as these databases were integrated into thermochemical computations to map phase stability in binary and ternary alloys. Many concepts and software used in computational thermodynamics are credited to the SGTE Group, a consortium devoted to the development of thermodynamic databases; the open elements database is freely available based on the paper by Dinsdale. This so-called \"unary\" system proves to be a common basis for the development of binary and multiple systems and is used by both commercial and open software in this field.\n\nHowever, as stated in recent CALPHAD papers and meetings, such a Dinsdale/SGTE database will likely need to be corrected over time despite the utility in keeping a common base. In this case, most published assessments will likely have to be revised, similarly to rebuilding a house due to a severely broken foundation. This concept has also been depicted as an \"inverted pyramid.\" Merely extending the current approach (limited to temperatures above room temperature) is a complex task. PyCalpahd, a Python library, was designed to facilitate simple computational thermodynamics calculation using open source code. In complex systems, computational methods such as CALPHAD are employed to model thermodynamic properties for each phase and simulate multicomponent phase behavior. The application of CALPHAD to high pressures in some important applications, which are not restricted to one side of materials science like the Fe-C system, confirms experimental results by using computational thermodynamic calculations of phase relations in the Fe–C system at high pressures. Other scientists even considered viscosity and other physical parameters, which are beyond the domain of thermodynamics.\n\nThere is still a gap between ab initio methods and operative computational thermodynamics databases. In the past, a simplified approach introduced by the early works of Larry Kaufman, based on Miedema's Model, was employed to check the correctness of even the simplest binary systems. However, relating the two communities to Solid State Physics and Materials Science remains a challenge, as it has been for many years. Promising results from ab initio quantum mechanics molecular simulation packages like VASP - Vienna Ab-initio Simulation Package are readily integrated in thermodynamic databases with approaches like Zentool.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2590808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2590808", "title": "Coral calcium", "text": "Coral calcium\n\nCoral calcium is a salt of calcium derived from fossilized coral reefs (primarily from limestone and coastal deposits). It has been promoted as an alternative, but unsubstantiated, treatment or cure for a number of health conditions.\n\nCoral calcium has been promoted as an alternative treatment or cure for a number of health conditions, often as part of an alkaline diet, by Robert Barefoot and others; Barefoot coauthored a book called \"The Calcium Factor,\" and marketed coral calcium supplements with infomercials. According to a \"Time\" magazine article about Barefoot by Leon Jaroff, \"The monthly cost of the recommended dose of Barefoot's calcium tablets is some 15 times greater than that of the ordinary drug store variety.\" Jaroff called Barefoot's marketing of coral calcium \"one of the more successful scams of our age\" and \"sheer nonsense,\" and labeled him a \"huckster\". \n\nThere is no medical evidence to support these health claims, and coral calcium has been identified by the United States Food and Drug Administration as a \"Fake Cancer 'Cure' Consumers Should Avoid\". The Federal Trade Commission prosecuted several individuals, including Barefoot, for making unsupported health claims about coral calcium, and the National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine has issued a consumer advisory regarding false and misleading marketing claims associated with coral calcium supplements.\n\nLiving coral reefs are endangered and cannot be harvested without significant damage to the ecosystem, and because of this, coral calcium is harvested by grinding up above-ground limestone deposits that were once part of a coral reef. Calcium from coral sources needs to be refined to remove pollutants of the source environment. It is marketed as a dietary supplement, but its benefits over other calcium supplements are unproven and biologically unlikely, and several marketers have been found guilty of fraud and were ordered to pay $20.4 million and to refrain from making unsubstantiated claims in the future. Additionally, coral near Okinawa has absorbed relatively high amounts of lead and mercury, leading to concern that these unregulated supplements may be contaminated. Further, coral takes millennia to grow, leading to environmental concerns if harvesting of live coral becomes widespread.\n\n"}
{"id": "46556787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46556787", "title": "E-diesel", "text": "E-diesel\n\nE-diesel is the name of synthetic diesel created by Audi to be used in automobiles. Currently, an e-diesel variant is created by Audi research facility in partnership with a company named Sunfire. The fuel is created from carbon dioxide, water, and electricity with a process powered by renewable energy sources to create a liquid energy carrier called blue crude (in contrast to regular crude oil) which is then refined to generate e-diesel. E-diesel is considered to be a carbon-neutral fuel as it does not extract new carbon and the energy sources to drive the process are from carbon-neutral sources. As of April 2015, an Audi A8 driven by Federal Minister of Education and Research in Germany is using the e-diesel fuel.\n\nSunfire, a clean technology company, operates a pilot plant in Dresden, Germany. The current process involves high-temperature electrolysis powered by electricity generated from renewable energy sources to split water into hydrogen and oxygen. The next two chemical processes to create a liquid energy carrier called blue crude are done at a temperature of and a pressure of . In a conversion step, hydrogen and carbon dioxide are used to create syngas with water as byproduct. The syngas, which contains carbon monoxide and hydrogen, reacts to generate the blue crude.\n\nThe final step is also known as Fischer–Tropsch process which was first developed in 1925 by German chemists Franz Fischer and Hans Tropsch. After the blue crude is produced, it can be refined to create e-diesel on site, saving the fuel and other infrastructure costs on crude transportation. As of April 2015, Sunfire has a capability to produce a limited amount of fuel at a day. There is a plan to increase the production to an industrial scale.\n\nAudi also partners with a company named Climeworks which manufactures carbon dioxide capturing machines. Climeworks technologies can absorb atmospheric carbon dioxide which is chemically captured at the surface of a sorbent until it becomes saturated. At that point, the sorbent is introduced with heat in a desorption cycle to drive out the high-purity carbon dioxide that can be used during the conversion step of the blue crude generation process. The atmospheric carbon dioxide capturing process has 90% of energy demand in the form of low-temperature heat and the rest from electrical energy for pumping and control. The combined plant of Climeworks and Sunfire in Dresden became operational in November 2014. A plant on Herøya in Norway, producing 10 million liters per year, is being considered, as from a fertilizer plant is readily available and electricity is relatively cheap in Norway.\n\nAs much as eighty percent of blue crude can be converted into e-diesel. The fuel contains no sulfur or aromatics, and has a high cetane number. These properties allow it to be blended with typical fossil diesel and used as a replacement fuel in automobiles with diesel engines.\n\nIn future designs, the oxygen by-product may be combined with renewable natural gas in the oxidative coupling of methane to ethylene:\n\nThe reaction is exothermic (∆H = -280 kJ/mol) and occurs at high temperatures (750–950 ˚C). The yield of the desired products is reduced by non-selective reactions of methyl radicals with the reactor surface and oxygen, which produces carbon monoxide and carbon dioxide by-products. Another ethylene production initiative developed by the European Commission through the Seventh Framework Programme for Research and Technological Development is the OCMOL process, which is the Oxidative Coupling of Methane (OCM) and simultaneous Reforming of Methane (RM) in a fully integrated reactor.\n\nAudi also partners with a United States company, Joule, to develop Joule's \"Sunflow-D\" as e-diesel for Audi. Joule's plant in New Mexico involves the use of genetically modified microorganisms in bright sunlight to act as a catalyst for the conversion of carbon dioxide and salty water into hydrocarbons. The process can be modified for longer molecular chains to produce alkanes in order to create synthetic diesel.\n\nJoule Unlimited is the first company to patent a modified organism that continuously secretes hydrocarbon fuel. The organism is a single-celled cyanobacterium, also known as blue-green algae, although it is technically not an algae. It produces the fuel using photosynthesis, the same process that multi-cellular green plants use, to make sugars and other materials from water, carbon dioxide, and sunlight.\n\nThere are other initiatives to create synthetic fuel from carbon dioxide and water, however they are not part of Audi's initiatives and the fuels are not called e-diesel. The water splitting methods vary.\n\nThe U.S. Naval Research Laboratory (NRL) is designing a power-to-liquids system using the Fischer-Tropsch Process to create fuel on board a ship at sea, with the base products carbon dioxide (CO) and water (HO) being derived from sea water via \"An Electrochemical Module Configuration For The Continuous Acidification Of Alkaline Water Sources And Recovery Of CO With Continuous Hydrogen Gas Production\".\n\n"}
{"id": "16327758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16327758", "title": "East of England Development Agency", "text": "East of England Development Agency\n\nThe East of England Development Agency (EEDA) was a non-departmental public body and the regional development agency for the East of England region of England.\n\nIt came into operation on 1 April 1999 and assumed the regional powers of English Partnerships, the Rural Development Commission and the SRB Challenge Fund. \n\nThe total budget for 2005/06 was £140 million.\n\nFrom 2010 many of the powers that were vested in the East of England Regional Assembly were passed to the EEDA and to local authorities.\n\nThe East of England Development Agency was abolished on 31 March 2012. Part of its remit was assumed by the relevant Local Enterprise Partnership (LEP). LEPs were introduced by the Government in 2010 and are local authority and business-led organisations designed to create jobs and increase private sector growth.\n"}
{"id": "4592652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4592652", "title": "Electrical treeing", "text": "Electrical treeing\n\nIn electrical engineering, treeing is an electrical pre-breakdown phenomenon in solid insulation. It is a damaging process due to partial discharges and progresses through the stressed dielectric insulation, in a path resembling the branches of a tree. Treeing of solid high-voltage cable insulation is a common breakdown mechanism and source of electrical faults in underground power cables.\n\nElectrical treeing first occurs and propagates when a dry dielectric material is subjected to high and divergent electrical field stress over a long period of time. Electrical treeing is observed to originate at points where impurities, gas voids, mechanical defects, or conducting projections cause excessive electrical field stress within small regions of the dielectric. This can ionize gases within voids inside the bulk dielectric, creating small electrical discharges between the walls of the void. An impurity or defect may even result in the partial breakdown of the solid dielectric itself. Ultraviolet light and ozone from these partial discharges (PD) then react with the nearby dielectric, decomposing and further degrading its insulating capability. Gases are often liberated as the dielectric degrades, creating new voids and cracks. These defects further weaken the dielectric strength of the material, enhance the electrical stress, and accelerate the PD process.\n\nIn the presence of water, a diffuse, partially conductive 3D plume-like structure, called a water tree, may form within the polyethylene dielectric used in buried or water-immersed high voltage cables. The plume is known to consist of a dense network of extremely small water-filled channels which are defined by the native crystalline structure of the polymer. Individual channels are extremely difficult to see using optical magnification, so their study usually requires using a scanning electron microscope (SEM). Water trees begin as a microscopic region near a defect. They then grow under the continued presence of a high electrical field and water. Water trees may eventually grow to the point where they bridge the outer ground layer to the center high voltage conductor, at which point the stress redistributes across the insulation. Water trees are not generally a reliability concern unless they are able to initiate an electrical tree. Another type of tree-like structure can form with or without the presence of water is called an electrical tree. It also forms within a polyethylene dielectric (as well as many other solid dielectrics). Electrical trees also originate where bulk or surface stress enhancements initiate dielectric breakdown in a small region of the insulation. This permanently damages the insulating material in that region. Further tree growth then occurs through as additional small electrical breakdown events (called partial discharges). Electrical tree growth may be accelerated by rapid voltage changes, such as utility switching operations. Also, cables injected with high voltage DC may also develop electrical trees over time as electrical charges migrate into the dielectric nearest the HV conductor. The region of injected charge (called a space charge) amplifies the electrical field in the dielectric, stimulating further stress enhancement and the initiation of electrical trees as the site of pre-existing stress enhancements. Since the electrical tree itself is typically partially conducting, its presence also increases the electrical stress in the region between the tree and the opposite conductor. Unlike water trees, the individual channels of electrical trees are larger and more easily seen.\nTreeing has been a long-term failure mechanism for buried polymer-insulated high voltage power cables, first reported in 1969. In a similar fashion, 2D trees can occur along the surface of a highly stressed dielectric, or across a dielectric surface that has been contaminated by dust or mineral salts. Over time, these partially conductive trails can grow until they cause complete failure of the dielectric. Electrical tracking, sometimes called \"dry banding\", is a typical failure mechanism for electrical power insulators that are subjected to salt spray contamination along coastlines. The branching 2D and 3D patterns are sometimes called Lichtenberg figures.\nElectrical treeing or \"Lichtenberg figures\" also occur in high-voltage equipment just before breakdown. Following these Lichtenberg figures in the insulation during postmortem investigation of the broken down insulation can be most useful in finding the cause of breakdown. An experienced high-voltage engineer can see from the direction and the type of trees and their branches where the primary cause of the breakdown was situated and possibly find the cause. Broken-down transformers, high-voltage cables, bushings, and other equipment can usefully be investigated in this way; the insulation is unrolled (in the case of paper insulation) or sliced in thin slices (in the case of solid insulation systems), the results are sketched and photographed and form a useful archive of the breakdown process.\n\nElectrical trees can be further categorized depending on the different tree patterns. These include dendrites, branch type, bush type, spikes, strings, bow-ties and vented trees. The two most commonly found tree types are bow-tie trees and vented trees.\n\n\n\nElectrical trees can be detected and located by means of partial discharge measurement.\n\nAs the measurement values of this method allow no absolute interpretation, data collected during the procedure is compared to measurement values of the same cable gathered during the test. This allows simple and quick classification of the dielectric condition (new, strongly aged, faulty) of the cable under test.\n\nTo measure the level of partial discharges, 50–60 Hz or sometimes a sinusoidal 0.1 Hz VLF (very low frequency) voltage may be used. The turn-on voltage, a major measurement criterion, can vary by over 100% between 50–60 Hz measurements as compared to 0.1 Hz VLF (very low frequency) Sinusoidal AC source at the power frequency (50–60 Hz) as mandated by IEEE standards 48, 404, 386, and ICEA standards S-97-682, S-94-649 and S-108-720. Modern PD-detection systems employ digital signal processing software for analysis and display of measurement results.\n\nAn analysis of the PD signals collected during the measurement with the proper equipment can allow for the vast majority of location of insulation defects. Usually they are displayed in a partial discharge mapping format. Additional useful information about the device under test can be derived from a phase related depiction of the partial discharges.\n\nA sufficient measurement report contains:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3831024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3831024", "title": "Electrodeless plasma thruster", "text": "Electrodeless plasma thruster\n\nThe electrodeless plasma thruster is a spacecraft propulsion engine commercialized under the acronym \"E-IMPAcT\" for \"Electrodeless-Ionization Magnetized Ponderomotive Acceleration Thruster\" . It was created by Mr. Gregory Emsellem based on technology developed by French Atomic Energy Commission scientist Dr Richard Geller and Dr. Terenzio Consoli, for high speed plasma beam production.\n\nThe electrodeless plasma thruster is currently being developed and adapted to various spacecraft propulsion needs by The Elwing Company.\n\n\nThis thruster technology can deliver large thrust density as the acceleration process is not limited by plasma density through Hall Parameter or grid electrical screening. Further, as the ponderomotive force accelerates all plasma species in the same direction, this thruster technology does not need any neutralizer. The fact that electrodeless plasma thruster is inherently multi-staged allows it to optimize both stages independently, or to throttle the thruster at constant power between higher specific impulse and higher thrust. The field of ponderomotive force is created by a non-uniform high frequency field and static magnetic field, thus it implies no grids nor contact between the plasma and any electrodes, hence it avoids most thruster erosion and spacecraft contamination issues.\n\nPropulsion systems based on electrodeless plasma thrusters seem ideally suited for orbit raising for large geostationary satellites, and would also be able to perform orbital stationkeeping, hence enabling important propellant mass savings. The ability of this technology to provide large thrust density also allows faster missions to the outer planets.\n\nThe use of ponderomotive force to accelerate a plasma has recently been investigated from a theoretical point of view by Princeton Plasma Physics Laboratory scientists I. Y. Dodin, Y. Raitses and N. J. Fisch. \n\nSome theoretical research has also been reported around the debated issue of the existence of a double layer in such a thruster, even if such a double layer structure would be current-free, as both ions and electrons travel in the same direction at the same average terminal speed. The existence of current free double layer is still debated among plasma physicists.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6212669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6212669", "title": "Electron temperature", "text": "Electron temperature\n\nTemperature is a statistical quantity. The formal definition is T = dU/dS, the change in internal energy with respect to entropy holding volume and particle number constant. A practical definition comes from the fact that the atoms, molecules, or whatever particles in a system have an average kinetic energy. The average means to average over the kinetic energy of all the particles in a system.\n\nIf the velocities of a group of electrons, e.g., in a plasma, follow a Maxwell–Boltzmann distribution, then the electron temperature is defined as the temperature of that distribution. For other distributions, not assumed to be in equilibrium or have a temperature, two-thirds of the average energy is often referred to as the temperature, since for a Maxwell–Boltzmann distribution with three degrees of freedom, formula_1.\n\nThe SI unit of temperature is the kelvin (K), but using the above relation the electron temperature is often expressed in terms of the energy unit electronvolt (eV). Each kelvin (1 K) corresponds to 8.6173324(78)×10 eV; this factor is the ratio of the Boltzmann constant to the elementary charge. Each eV is equivalent to 11,605 kelvins. It can be calculated by the relation formula_2.\n\nThe electron temperature of a plasma can be several orders of magnitude higher than the temperature of the neutral species or of the ions. This is a result of two facts. Firstly, many plasma sources heat the electrons more strongly than the ions. Secondly, atoms and ions are much heavier than electrons, and energy transfer in a two-body collision is much more efficient if the masses are similar. Therefore, equilibration of the temperature happens very slowly, and is not achieved during the time range of the observation.\n\n"}
{"id": "737877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=737877", "title": "Fiat Siena", "text": "Fiat Siena\n\nThe Fiat Siena was a supermini produced by the Italian manufacturer Fiat between 1996 to 2017. It is the four-door sedan version of the Fiat Palio, a supermini car especially designed for developing countries. It was introduced for the first time in South America, and was produced in various countries worldwide. Later, in 2002, a similar car based on the same platform was developed for the European market, the Fiat Albea. It replaced the Siena in these European markets, such as Poland, where the original model was previously sold.\n\nIn 2012, Fiat released the second generation of the Siena, called the Fiat Grand Siena.\n\nThe Siena was one of the most popular saloons in Brazil, selling in over 800,000 units throughout 14 years of presence. In Italy the car was not marketed, after the flop of the predecessor Fiat Duna.\n\nLaunched in 1996, in Brazil, as the four-door sedan of the Fiat Palio, codenamed Project 178, the Siena (pictured above) was made due to the important sales benchmark of hatchback models in developing countries. The range was made from Fiasa and Fire gasoline engines between 1.0 L and 1.6 L.\n\nIn 2001, the model has the first facelift. The new design was made by the Italian design-guru Giorgetto Giugiaro. The facelift includes a new front and rear design, and a brand new interior. Also, new engines came as the 16-valve Fire engines 1.0 L 70 HP and the 1.2 L 82 HP. In Turkey and China the redesign Siena was introduced with a Speedgear semi-automatic gearbox. With this new design, the small car was finally able to fight for its place in the market, becoming a success in sales. Fiat had considered changing the name to Palio Sedan, due to the lack of interest on the previous Siena, and the solid sales of its biggest competitor, the Chevrolet Prisma. This idea was later discarded. Up to this point, the Fiat Siena was the only model belonging to the Palio family that had not been well accepted by the community. Therefore, Fiat gave special attention to the design of this model in particular, having its rear entirely redesigned.\nA second facelift was presented in 2004. The designer was again Giorgetto Giugiaro. It has a new front, rear, and interior design. The 2004 Siena was the first Brazilian compact 4-door sedan with four airbags (two at front and two side airbags), auto-dimming rear-view mirror, rain sensor and park assistance. These accessories, however, are very expensive for the Brazilian and most other South American markets, so they are generally not found in end-use vehicles. The engines range in South America from a 1.3 Fire 16-valve, a new 1.4 Fire 8-valve with 80 HP (the same of the latest Fiat Punto, and a 1.8 GM Powertrain 8-valve with , shared with the Chevrolet Corsa). The Siena EL was sold with 1.0 and 1.4 engines, both 8-valve units.\n\nIn Brazil, the top model has been equipped by Flexfuel version of the latter 1.8 Powertrain 8-valve – gasoline and/or alcohol – reaching with gasoline and with alcohol at 5,500 rpm. In Mexico is sold as Palio Sedan, first with the 1.6 16v Torque engine and later with the 1.8 GM Powertrain with .\n\nIn Europe, the new model features the 2004 front and interior design and a 2001 rear design. The Albea, European version of the Siena, also gained the 1.3 Multijet diesel engine, a second generation common rail turbocharged engine, developing .\n\nIn 2008, Fiat unveiled the facelifted Siena. This fourth version of the model has a unique front design, which for the first time is different from the current Palio.\n\nThe new Siena follows the new Fiat 'family face', with double front lights and some chrome details in the grille, and around the fog lights. The rear lights are sharp and intregrated with the trunk and appeared to be inspired by models of Alfa Romeo, like the 156 and 159.\n\nThe new Siena is in production at Betim (Brazil) and Córdoba (Argentina), with 1.0 8v, 1.4 8v, 1.4 8v TetraFuel, and 1.8 8v engines, flexible for the Brazilian market (capable of using gasoline and ethanol). The TetraFuel is the first multifuel car that can run as a flexi-fuel on pure gasoline, or E25, or E100; or runs as a bi-fuel with natural gas (CNG). As of 2011, the sportive version - Siena Sporting 1.6R 16v, equipped with Fiat's Dualogic automatic gearbox - were also in production, although Fiat announced that this variant won't be offered anymore from 2012. All the New Siena EL 1.0, EL 1.4 and many ELX versions circulating at Brazil were, actually, manufactured at Argentina, as Betim's factory is still producing only the more expensive versions.\n\nIt was produced in Brazil (Betim Plant) and Argentina (Ferreyra). In the past it was also produced in Turkey (Bursa), Poland (Tychy) , India (Pune) , South Africa (Rosslyn), China (Nanjing), Iran (Saveh), Morocco (Casablanca) and Vietnam.\n\nIt has also been built under license in Nampo, North Korea from 2002 to 2006, as the Pyeonghwa Hwiparam.\n\nThe following columns show the sales figures of the Fiat Siena in Brazil\n\nIn November 2001, the Fiat Palio debuted on the Chinese market, with either the 1.2-liter or the 1.5-liter, followed by the Siena (effectively the large-wheelbase version, the Albea) in November 2002, and the Palio Weekend in June 2003. The Siena and Weekend were not available with the smaller engine.\n\nThe Nanjing Fiat Perla, launched at the 2006 Auto Guangzhou Motor Show, is based on the Fiat Albea platform. The car's rear got a more profound facelift for the Chinese market. For example, the rear is longer and lower than the Siena. It has a new 1.7-liter gasoline engine, air conditioning, dual front airbags, anti-lock brakes, power steering, power windows, central locking, and many other features. The engine has a maximum power output of and a maximum torque of at 4,000 rpm, satisfying the Euro III emission standards. The length is , the width is , the height is , the wheelbase is , and the curb weight is .\n\nSince Fiat withdrew from Nanjing in 2007 and SAIC took over, discontinuing the Fiat models, the Perla only had a very brief existence. Russia was meant to be the first country outside China to receive the Perla, but with the 1.4 L Fire 8v engine with and the Speedgear transmission.\n\nIn 2008, Zotye Auto purchased the tooling for the Palio and the Siena, and in 2011, launched its own restyled version of the car, the Zotye Z200, which is produced in both hatchback and sedan form. They are now powered by a range of a 1.3-liter and a 1.5-liter gasoline engines, with four valves per cylinder and variable valve timing, reportedly sourced from Mitsubishi, which are able to develop between and between of torque.\n\nThe Fiat Albea, a European version of the Siena, was tested in Russia according to the Euro NCAP latest standard, an offset frontal crash at . The Albea scored 8.5 points in the frontal test, equivalent to 3 stars. The tested vehicle was equipped with standard driver airbag and regular seatbelts.\n\nThe Fiat Perla, a Chinese version of the Fiat Albea, was tested in China by the China-NCAP in three different tests: a 100% front crash test with a wall (like the US NTHSA test), a 40% offset test (like the Euro NCAP), and a side crash test (like in the Euro NCAP). The Perla scored 8.06 points in the 100% frontal crash test, equivalent to 3 stars, 12.02 points in the 40% offset crash test, equivalent to 4 stars, and 10.96 points in the side crash test, equivalent to 3 stars. The average result was 31 points and 3 stars. The tested vehicle was equipped with standard driver and passenger airbags and regular seatbelts.\n\nThe second generation of the Fiat Siena (Type 326) was unveiled in South America in 2012, under the Fiat Grand Siena name and since 2015 under the Dodge Vision name in Mexico, as the production of the previous generation continues along the new version.\n\nThe platform of the new generation is derived from the new Palio, but with a longer wheelbase. The exterior design is different from the new Palio and was inspired from the Fiat Bravo, while the rear design was inspired from Fiat Linea. The interior is the same used in the Palio, with specific details.\n\nThe Grand Siena is larger than its predecessor, but smaller than the Fiat Linea compact car. It is powered by a new Fiat E.torq 1.6-liter flexy fuel engine, that delivers around , or by the smaller 1.4 16V Fire EVO Tetrafuel engine with a maximum power of . The new model weights less and has more legroom compared to its predecessor. The front suspension is composed by the same MacPherson system of the new Palio, but the rear suspension uses a new type of torsion beam.\n\nProduction of Grand Siena started in 2012, at first at the Betim plant in Brazil. The Grand Siena is marketed in South America and Mexico (Since 2015 as Dodge Vision). In 2018 production of the engine 1.4 Fire Evo flex and 1.6 E.torQ flex end, the only engine avaible is the 1.0 Fire Evo flex.\n\n"}
{"id": "18127645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18127645", "title": "Frisian Solar Challenge", "text": "Frisian Solar Challenge\n\nThe Frisian Solar Boat Challenge is a solar boat race.\n\nThe race starts in Leeuwarden, the capital of Friesland, and follows the classic route of the Eleven City Tour. Following the canals, rivers, and lakes, with the occasional portage, the race features 40 teams from eight countries, including Belgium, Germany, Great Britain, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Poland, Sweden, and one long-distance entry, a team from the Federal University of Rio in Brazil.\n\nThe race is divided into three classes: the A class is for one-seater boats, the B class is for two-seater boats, and the open or C class can have a crew of any amount. To keep the costs down, entries in the A and B class can borrow solar panels from the race's sponsors, Sharp and The Sun Factory. As of June 24, two Dutch teams appear to be competing for the prize, as the Technical University of Delft (running in the C class) won the first stage, and preliminary results show the Hanze Solar Team (running in the A class) winning the second stage. The six-day race concludes back at its starting point in Leeuwarden.\n"}
{"id": "30660111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30660111", "title": "Gamesa G128-4.5 MW", "text": "Gamesa G128-4.5 MW\n\nThe Gamesa G128-4.5 MW wind turbine, from Gamesa, near Jaulín, Zaragoza, Spain, is a wind turbine with the largest rotor, which surpasses with 128 metres that of the Enercon E-126 by 2 metres. It is the prototype of this model. The rotor is fixed on an 81, 120, or 140 metres tall tower consisting of concrete and steel. The turbine has a generation power of 4.5 MW.\n\n"}
{"id": "6966898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6966898", "title": "Gemma D'Arcy", "text": "Gemma D'Arcy\n\nGemma Donna Louise D'Arcy was born in Cumbria in November 1983. She was briefly famous in Britain due to suffering chronic myeloid leukaemia, extremely rare in children and hypothesised to have been caused by her family living in proximity to the Sellafield nuclear power plant.\n\nShe died in September 1990 after three bone marrow transplants, aged six years and ten months. Her life was the subject of an ITV docu-drama \"Fighting for Gemma\" in 1993, detailing her family's attempts to bring a criminal case against BNFL for damages relating to her illness.\n\nHer mother Susan later wrote a book, \"Still Fighting For Gemma\" in which she voiced her criticisms of British Nuclear Fuels and the nuclear industry in general.\n"}
{"id": "43794088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43794088", "title": "Germanene", "text": "Germanene\n\nGermanene is a material made up of a single layer of germanium atoms. The material is created in a process similar to that of silicene and graphene, in which high vacuum and high temperature are used to deposit a layer of germanium atoms on a substrate. High-quality thin films of germanene have revealed unusual two-dimensional structures with novel electronic properties suitable for semiconductor device applications and materials science research.\n\nIn September 2014, G. Le Lay and others reported the deposition of a single atom thickness, ordered and two-dimensional multi-phase film by molecular beam epitaxy upon a gold surface in a crystal lattice with Miller indices (111). The structure was confirmed with scanning tunneling microscopy (STM) revealing a nearly flat honeycomb structure. \nAdditional confirmation was obtained by spectroscopic measurement and density functional theory calculations. The development of high quality and nearly flat single atom films created speculation that germanene may replace graphene if not merely add an alternative to the novel properties of related nanomaterials.\n\nBampoulis and others have reported the formation of germanene on the outermost layer of GePt nanocrystals. Atomically resolved STM images of germanene on GePt nanocrystals reveal a buckled honeycomb structure. This honeycomb lattice is composed of two hexagonal sublattices displaced by 0.2 Å in the vertical direction with respect to each other. The nearest-neighbor distance was found to be 2.5±0.1 Å, in close agreement with the Ge-Ge distance in germanene.\n\nBased on STM observations and density functional theory calculations, formation of an apparently more distorted form of germanene has been reported on platinum. Epitaxial growth of germanene crystals on GaAs(100) has also been demonstrated, and calculations suggest that the minimal interactions should allow germanene to be readily removed from this substrate.\n\nGermanene's structure is described as \"a group-IV graphene-like two-dimensional buckled nanosheet\". Adsorption of additional germanium onto the graphene-like sheet leads to formation of \"dumbbell\" units, each with two out-of-plane atoms of germanium, one on either side of the plane. Dumbbells attract each other. Periodically repeating arrangements of dumbbell structures may lead to additional stable phases of germanene, with altered electronic and magnetic properties.\n\nIn October 2018, Junji Yuhara and others reported that germanene is easily prepared by a segregation metho, using a bare Ag thin film on a Ge substrate and achieved in situ its epitaxial growth. The growth of germanene, akin to graphene and silicene, by a segregation method, is considered to be technically very important for the easy synthesis and transfer of this highly promising 2D electronic material.\n\nGermanene's electronic and optical properties have been determined from \"ab initio\" calculations, and structural and electronic properties from first principles. These properties make the material suitable for use in the channel of a high-performance field-effect transistor and have generated discussion regarding the use of elemental monolayers in other electronic devices. The electronic properties of germanene are unusual, and provide a rare opportunity to test the properties of Dirac fermions. Germanene has no band gap, but attaching a hydrogen atom to each germanium atom creates one. These unusual properties are generally shared by graphene, silicene, germanene, and stanene.\n\n"}
{"id": "13696274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13696274", "title": "Goldeneye Gas Platform", "text": "Goldeneye Gas Platform\n\nGoldeneye Gas Platform is an unmanned and now abandoned offshore gas production platform in North Sea block 14/29, in the South Halibut basin area of the outer Moray Firth, 105 km northeast of St Fergus Gas Plant in Scotland. The topsides were designed by SLP Engineering Ltd. Production was from five wells with well fluids separated by a single vertical separator vessel. Separated liquids were re-injected into the export gas stream without further treatment. Facilities were provided for the installation of a future produced water coalescer and flash drum. Gas was piped ashore to St Fergus under well pressure, without using compressors, where it was processed. It operated in of water. The field was discovered in 1996, production started in 2004. and the platform was abandoned in 2011. It has a potential use for carbon dioxide storage.\n\nLike most North Sea fields operated by Shell, it is named after a bird - in this case \"Bucephala clangula\", a small duck found in Scotland and elsewhere.\n\n"}
{"id": "1211612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1211612", "title": "Idleness", "text": "Idleness\n\nIdleness is a lack of motion or energy. In describing a person or machine, idle means the act of nothing or no work (for example: \"John Smith is an idle person\"). This is a person who spends his days doing nothing could be said to be \"idly passing his days.\" (For example: Mary has been idle on her instant messenger account for hours.) A computer processor or communication circuit is described as idle when it is not being used by any program, application or message. Similarly, an engine of an automobile may be described as idle when it is running only to sustain its running (not doing any useful work), this is also called the tickover (see idle).\n\nTypically, when one describes a machine as idle, it is an objective statement regarding its current state. However, when used to describe a person, idle typically carries a negative connotation, with the assumption that the person is wasting their time by doing nothing of value.\n\nSuch a view is reflected in the proverb \"an idle mind is the devil's workshop\". Also, the popular phrase \"killing time\" refers to idleness and can be defined as spending time doing nothing in particular in order that time seems to pass more quickly. These interpretations of idleness are not universal – they are more typically associated with Western cultures. Idleness was considered a disorderly offence in England punishable as a summary offense.\n\nInvoluntary enforced idleness is the punishment used for lazy or slacking workers in zero-hour contracts. Paid time off, which was introduced in the 20th century as a trade unionist reform, is now absent from an increasing number of job arrangements both as a money-saving mechanism and so that only work pays and thus reinforcing the stigma against idleness and enabling nature’s punishment of idleness in the form of destitution and starvation. Asking for holiday leave is now in the UK also frowned upon in traditional full-time contracts as it is taken to be a sign of lack of commitment and team spirit and as a propensity to laziness, and it is often punished, and is considered by most as a sackable offence.\n\nThe state of being idle is sometimes even celebrated with a few books on the subject of idleness. \"How to Be Idle\" by Tom Hodgkinson is one such example from an author who is also known for his magazine, \"\"The Idler\"\", devoted to promoting its ethos of \"idle living\". Bertrand Russell's \"In Praise of Idleness and Other Essays\" is another book that explores the virtues of being idle in the modern society.\n\nMark Slouka published an essay, \"Quitting the Paint Factory: The Virtues of Idleness\", hinting at a post-scarcity economy and linking conscious busyness with anti-democratic and fascist tendencies.\n\n"}
{"id": "3219289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3219289", "title": "Intergranular fracture", "text": "Intergranular fracture\n\nIn certain materials and under certain conditions, the boundaries between the grains are the weakest regions in the material. An intergranular fracture is a fracture that grows along the grain boundaries of the material. In a wall of bricks it would correspond to a fracture that takes place in the mortar that keeps the bricks together. In metals with multiple lattice organizations, when one lattice ends and another begins, the fracture changes direction to follow the new grain. This results in a fairly jagged looking fracture with straight edges of the grain and shiny surface may be seen.\n\nIn ceramics, interganular fractures propagate through grain boundaries, producing smooth bumpy surfaces where grains can be easily identified.\n\nIntergranular cracking is likely to occur if there is a hostile environmental influence. In addition, there are several other processes that can lead to intergranular fracture:\n\n\nThis is also known as intercrystalline fracture or grain-boundary separation.\n\nThis is to be distinguished from the more commonly seen Transgranular fracture, where the crack grows through the material grains.\n\n"}
{"id": "36323012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36323012", "title": "King Abdullah Petroleum Studies and Research Center", "text": "King Abdullah Petroleum Studies and Research Center\n\nKAPSARC, the abbreviation for the King Abdullah Petroleum Studies and Research Center, is located in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, where it began its activities in 2010. It is as an independent, non-profit institution that focuses on research in energy economics, policy, technology, and the environment. Its research areas include global energy markets and economics, energy efficiency and productivity, energy and environmental technologies, and carbon management. The organization has a multi-national research team.\n\nIt was established by King Abdullah of Saudi Arabia as an element of the broader theme of reform in the region and emphasizes the openness, equality, and diversity of gender, nationality, and backgrounds—in a manner similar to the King Abdullah University of Science and Technology. The Center has employees from over 20 nationalities, and its workforce is 40% women.\n\nIn July 2007, King Abdullah of Saudi Arabia called for the establishment of an independent center to conduct objective and scientific research in the field of energy. Interim management was given to Saudi Aramco in 2008 to plan the center’s mandate and facilities. The Center’s real existence started in 2012. The center started operating in 2013.\n\nKAPSARC is an autonomous institution, financially and legally. It is funded by proceeds from its own endowment and only reports to an internationally composed Board of Trustees, consisting of six members, including the chairman, the president, and four independent members, who set policies and approve the strategic, operational, and financial plans of the Center. Members include His Excellency Dr. Muhammad Al-Jasser and Sir Keith O’Nions. US Secretary of Energy Ernest Moniz was a founding member of the Board of Trustees but had to step down to accept his new role as Secretary of Energy\n\nKAPSARC also has an International Advisory Council that advises on ongoing programs and research projects. It consists of several members of international stature, such as John Hamre, Daniel Yergin, George M. Whitesides, and others.\n\nThe KAPSARC campus on the northern edge of Ridyah contains both a Residential Campus (called the REC, located on the west side of the property) and a Research and Office Complex (called the ROC, located on the east side).\n\nThe 70,000 square meter Research and Office Complex was designed by Zaha Hadid. Hadid received the commission after a 2009 design competition. It opened in October 2017 and received a LEED Platinum certification. The complex consists of five interlocking buildings, a research center, a computer center, a conference center, a library and the Musalla, a place for prayer.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11276873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11276873", "title": "Latina Nuclear Power Plant", "text": "Latina Nuclear Power Plant\n\nLatina Nuclear Power Plant is a former nuclear power plant at Latina, Lazio, Italy. Consisting of one 153 MWe Magnox reactor, it operated from 1963 until 1987.\n\nConstruction started in 1958. The first criticality occurred in December 1962, and the first connection to the distribution grid in May 1963. Commercial operation took place starting from January 1964.\n\nThe plant was originally rated at 210 MWe, but the danger of significant oxidation of mild steel components by the high temperature carbon dioxide coolant required (in 1969) a reduction in operating temperature from 390 to 360 °C, which reduced power by 24%, down to 160 MWe.\n\nIn 1985 its license was renewed to operate until at least 1992, but after the Chernobyl disaster it was shut down early in 1987. \n\n\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "1911153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1911153", "title": "Light Serviços de Eletricidade", "text": "Light Serviços de Eletricidade\n\nLight Serviços de Eletricidade S.A. is an electric company based in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. It is controlled by Rio Minas Energia Participações S.A.\n\nThe company was privatized by the Brazilian federal government in 1996 when it was bought by a consortium of Houston Industries, AES Corp, and Électricité de France for US$1.7 billion. In 2006, 78.4% stake was bought by Rio Minas Energia Participações S.A.\n\nElectrical power infrastructure in Rio de Janeiro was originally developed in the first half of the 20th century by the Rio de Janeiro Tramway, Light and Power Company, a company financed with foreign capital and legally domiciled in Toronto, Canada. After 1912, this company was part of the holding company Brazilian Traction, Light and Power Company (usually known in Brazil simply as \"Light\"), which eventually changed its name to Brascan (for \"Brasil\" + \"Canada\"). In 1979, the company's Brazilian assets transferred to Brazilian ownership. The Canadian company, which had in the meantime diversified to other areas, still exists under the name Brookfield Asset Management.\n"}
{"id": "880497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=880497", "title": "Linoleic acid", "text": "Linoleic acid\n\nLinoleic acid (LA), a carboxylic acid, is a polyunsaturated omega-6 fatty acid, an 18-carbon chain with two double bonds in cis configuration. A shorthand notation like \"18:2 (n-6)\" or \"18:2 \"cis\"-9,12\" may be used in literature. It typically occurs in nature as a triglyceride ester; free fatty acids are typically low in foods. It is very soluble in acetone, benzene, diethyl ether and ethanol.\n\nLinoleic acid belongs to one of the two essential fatty acids, which means that the human body cannot synthesize it from other food components.\n\nThe word \"linoleic\" derived from the Greek word \"linon\" (flax). \"Oleic\" means \"of, relating to, or derived from oil of olive\" or \"of or relating to oleic acid\" because saturating the omega-6 double bond produces oleic acid.\n\nLA is a polyunsaturated fatty acid used in the biosynthesis of arachidonic acid (AA) and thus some prostaglandins, leukotrienes (LTA, LTB, LTC), and thromboxane (TXA). It is found in the lipids of cell membranes. It is abundant in many nuts, fatty seeds (flax seeds, hemp seeds, poppy seeds, sesame seeds, etc.) and their derived vegetable oils; comprising over half (by weight) of poppy seed, safflower, sunflower, corn, and soybean oils.\n\nLA is converted by various lipoxygenases, cyclooxygenases, certain cytochrome P450 enzymes (the CYP monooxygenases), and non-enzymatic autoxidation mechanisms to mono-hydroxyl products viz., 13-Hydroxyoctadecadienoic acid and 9-Hydroxyoctadecadienoic acid; these two hydroxy metabolites are enzymatically oxidized to their keto metabolites, 13-oxo-octadecadienoic acid and 9-oxo-octadecdienoic acid. Certain cytochrome P450 enzymes, the CYP epoxygenases, metabolize LA to epoxide products viz., its 12,13-epoxide, Vernolic acid and its 9,10-epoxide, Coronaric acid. All of these LA products have bioactivity and are implicated in human physiology and pathology as indicated in the cited linkages.\n\nLinoleic acid is an essential fatty acid that must be consumed for proper health. A diet deficient in linoleate (the salt form of the acid) causes mild skin scaling, hair loss,\nand poor wound healing in rats.\n\nAlong with oleic acid, linoleic acid is released by cockroaches upon death which has the effect of preventing other roaches from entering the area. This is similar to the mechanism found in ants and bees, which also release oleic acid upon death.\n\nLA is associated with Ulcerative Colitis.\n\nThe first step in the metabolism of LA is performed by Δdesaturase, which converts LA into gamma-Linolenic acid (GLA).\n\nThere is evidence suggesting that infants lack Δdesaturase of their own, and must acquire it through breast milk. Studies show that breast-milk fed babies have higher concentrations of GLA than formula-fed babies, while formula-fed babies have elevated concentrations of LA.\n\nGLA is converted to dihomo-γ-linolenic acid (DGLA), which in turn is converted to arachidonic acid (AA). One of the possible fates of AA is to be transformed into a group of metabolites called eicosanoids during the inflammatory response and during physical activity; eicosanoids are a class of paracrine hormones. The three types of eicosanoids are prostaglandins, thromboxanes, and leukotrienes. Eicosanoids produced from AA tend to \"promote\" (not cause) inflammation and \"promote\" growth during and after physical activity in healthy humans. For example, both AA-derived thrombaxane and leukotriene are proaggregatory and vasoconstrictive eicosanoids during inflammation. The oxidized metabolic products of linoleic acid, such as 9-hydroxyoctadecanoic acid and 13-hydroxyoctadecanoic acid, have also been shown to activate TRPV1, the capsaicin receptor, and through this might play a major role in hyperalgesia and allodynia.\n\nThere are some suggested negative health effects related to this inflammation promoting function of linoleic acid as an omega-6 fatty acid.\n\nLinoleic acid is used in making quick-drying oils, which are useful in oil paints and varnishes. These applications exploit the easy reaction of the linoleic acid with oxygen in air, which leads to crosslinking and formation of a stable film called linoxyn.\n\nReduction of linoleic acid yields linoleyl alcohol. Linoleic acid is a surfactant with a critical micelle concentration of 1.5 x 10 M @ pH 7.5.\n\nLinoleic acid has become increasingly popular in the beauty products industry because of its beneficial properties on the skin. Research points to linoleic acid's anti-inflammatory, acne reductive, skin-lightening and moisture retentive properties when applied topically on the skin.\n\nLinoleic acid lipid radicals can be used to show the antioxidant effect of polyphenols and natural phenols. Experiments on linoleic acid subjected to 2,2'-Azobis(2-amidinopropane) dihydrochloride induced oxidation of linoleic acid; hence producing lipid radicals and then the use of different combinations of phenolics show that binary mixtures can lead to either a synergetic antioxidant effect or to an antagonistic effect towards the lipid radicals. Research like this is useful in discovering which phenols prevent the autoxidation of lipids in vegetable oils.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11830506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11830506", "title": "Load regulation", "text": "Load regulation\n\nLoad regulation is the capability to maintain a constant voltage (or current) level on the output channel of a power supply despite changes in the supply's load (such as a change in resistance value connected across the supply output).\n\nLoad regulation of a constant-voltage source is defined by the equation:\n\nWhere:\n\nFor a constant-current supply, the above equation uses currents instead of voltages, and the maximum and minimum load values are when the largest and smallest specified voltage across the load are produced.\n\nFor switching power supplies, the primary source of regulation error is switching ripple, rather than control loop precision. In such cases, load regulation is defined without normalizing to voltage at nominal load and has the unit of volts, not a percentage.\n\nformula_5\n\nA simple way to manually measure load regulation is to connect three parallel load resistors to the power supply where two of the resistors, R and R, are connected through switches while the other resistor, R is connected directly. The values of the resistors are selected such that R gives the highest load resistance, R||R gives the nominal load resistance and either R||R||R or R||R gives the lowest load resistance. A voltmeter is then connected in parallel to the resistors and the measured values of voltage for each load state can be used to calculate the load regulation as given in the equation above.\n\nProgrammable loads are typically used to automate the measurement of load regulation.\n\n"}
{"id": "33899939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33899939", "title": "MS Oliva", "text": "MS Oliva\n\nThe MS \"Oliva\" was a bulk carrier launched in 2009. On 16 March 2011, due to the risky navigation of trying to achieve the minimal allowed clearance of Nightingale Island of 10 nmi, and due to human error in navigation reducing the actual clearance to zero, the ship went aground off Nightingale Island, Tristan da Cunha, in the South Atlantic, at 4 am while on a voyage from Santos, Brazil to China with a cargo of soya beans.\nThe ship broke in two and was a total loss. All 22 crew were rescued. More than 800 tons of fuel oil leaked from the ship and coated some 20,000 northern rockhopper penguins. The remains of the ship have been left to be claimed by the ocean. There is an area of soya bean deposits and reduced sealife around the wreck due to the cargo of soya bean removing the oxygen from the water. \n\nIn February 2013, a lifeboat from the \"Oliva\" washed up on a beach in the Coorong National Park in south-east South Australia. Images of \"Oliva\" with the lifeboat rails empty can be seen at the Tristan da Cunha website of the grounding and recovery.\nThe lifeboat was later put on display adjacent to the former Cape Jaffa lighthouse in Kingston SE, South Australia.\n\n"}
{"id": "5889381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5889381", "title": "Magnox (alloy)", "text": "Magnox (alloy)\n\nMagnox is an alloy—mainly of magnesium with small amounts of aluminium and other metals—used in cladding unenriched uranium metal fuel with a non-oxidising covering to contain fission products in nuclear reactors.\nMagnox is short for Magnesium non-oxidising.\nThis material has the advantage of a low neutron capture cross section, but has two major disadvantages:\n\nThe magnox alloy Al80 has a composition of 0.8% aluminium and 0.004% beryllium.\n\n"}
{"id": "17131896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17131896", "title": "Nghi Sơn Refinery", "text": "Nghi Sơn Refinery\n\nNghi Son Refinery is the second planned oil refinery in Vietnam. It would be located about south of Hanoi in Tinh Gia District of Thanh Hóa Province. Site-clearing for the project broke ground in 2008. Construction began on 23 October 2013, and refinery operations are targeted for 2017. Planned capacity is , slightly greater than that of Vietnam's first Dung Quat refinery. The site-clearing phase entails the resettlement of 350 households with 1,500 people and the surface leveling of the area.\n\nNghi Son refinery would have a designed capacity of 10 million tons of crude oil per year with possibility to increase the capacity to 20 million tons. It is expected to cost US$9 billion. The refinery project will also include petrochemical complex, energy facilities, pipeline and storage systems. In addition to LPG, unleaded gasoline, kerosene, jet fuel, diesel and FO, the refinery is projected to produce bitumen, propylene and BTX as a raw material for the petrochemical industry.\n\nThe refinery will be supplied with crude oil imports from Kuwait.\n\nThe refinery is designed and built by a syndicate of EPC contractors including JGC Corporation and Chiyoda Corporation from Japan, GS Engineering & Construction Corporation and SK Engineering & Construction Co. from South Korea, Technip from France and Malaysia's Technip Geoproduction. 70% of the construction costs will be financed through the Japan Bank for International Cooperation. According to Bloomberg, JGC won the EPC contract to build the refinery in 2011.\n\nThe project is developed by a consortium of international companies. Petrovietnam holds 25.1%, Idemitsu Kosan and Kuwait Petroleum International each hold a 35.1% each, and Mitsui Chemicals has the remaining 4.7% of shares. A contract to set up a joint venture was signed on 7 April 2008.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34773559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34773559", "title": "Pha Taem National Park", "text": "Pha Taem National Park\n\nPha Taem National Park (Thai:อุทยานแห่งชาติผาแต้ม) is a national park along the Mekong river in Ubon Ratchathani Province of Isan, Thailand. Phou Xieng Thong National Protected Area in Laos is on the opposite side of the river.\n\nIt is notable for its Dipterocarp forest cover and for extensive rock art on cliffs above the Mekong. The art is estimated to be 3,000 years old. The park also has several examples of mushroom rocks as well as the largest flower field in Thailand.\n\nBesides, Pha Taem National Park also a popular tourist destination for the received first sunshine of the New Year's every year. \n\nThe park is covered by Dipterocarp forest with \"Shorea obtusa\", \"Shorea siamensis\", and \"Dipterocarpus obtusifollus\" the dominant species. There are some dry evergreen forests near streams.\n\nThe park is habitat for Siamese hares, barking deer, civets, palm civets and wild pigs and serow, which migrate from Laos in summer. In 2005, specimens of a new frog species, \"Fejervarya triora\", were discovered in the park.\n\n"}
{"id": "309252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=309252", "title": "Phosphorescence", "text": "Phosphorescence\n\nPhosphorescence is a type of photoluminescence related to fluorescence. Unlike fluorescence, a phosphorescent material does not immediately re-emit the radiation it absorbs. The slower time scales of the re-emission are associated with \"forbidden\" energy state transitions in quantum mechanics. As these transitions occur very slowly in certain materials, absorbed radiation is re-emitted at a lower intensity for up to several hours after the original excitation.\n\nEveryday examples of phosphorescent materials are the glow-in-the-dark toys, stickers, paint, and clock dials that glow after being charged with a bright light such as in any normal reading or room light. Typically, the glow slowly fades out, sometimes within a few minutes or up to a few hours in a dark room.\n\nThe study of phosphorescent materials led to the discovery of radioactivity in 1896.\n\nIn simple terms, phosphorescence is a process in which energy absorbed by a substance is released relatively slowly in the form of light. This is in some cases the mechanism used for \"glow-in-the-dark\" materials which are \"charged\" by exposure to light. Unlike the relatively swift reactions in fluorescence, such as those seen in a common fluorescent tube, phosphorescent materials \"store\" absorbed energy for a longer time, as the processes required to re-emit energy occur less often.\n\nMost photoluminescent events, in which a chemical substrate absorbs and then re-emits a photon of light, are fast, in the order of 10 nanoseconds. Light is absorbed and emitted at these fast time scales in cases where the energy of the photons involved matches the available energy states and allowed transitions of the substrate. In the special case of phosphorescence, the electron which absorbed the photon (energy) undergoes an unusual intersystem crossing into an energy state of higher \"spin multiplicity\" (\"see term symbol\"), usually a triplet state. As a result, the excited electron can become trapped in the triplet state with only \"forbidden\" transitions available to return to the lower energy singlet state. These transitions, although \"forbidden\", will still occur in quantum mechanics but are kinetically unfavored and thus progress at significantly slower time scales. Most phosphorescent compounds are still relatively fast emitters, with triplet lifetimes on the order of milliseconds. However, some compounds have triplet lifetimes up to minutes or even hours, allowing these substances to effectively store light energy in the form of very slowly degrading excited electron states. If the phosphorescent quantum yield is high, these substances will release significant amounts of light over long time scales, creating so-called \"glow-in-the-dark\" materials.\n\nwhere S is a singlet and T a triplet whose subscripts denote states (0 is the ground state, and 1 the excited state). Transitions can also occur to higher energy levels, but the first excited state is denoted for simplicity.\n\nSome examples of glow-in-the-dark materials do not glow by phosphorescence. For example, glow sticks glow due to a chemiluminescent process which is commonly mistaken for phosphorescence. In chemiluminescence, an excited state is created via a chemical reaction. The light emission tracks the kinetic progress of the underlying chemical reaction. The excited state will then transfer to a dye molecule, also known as a sensitizer or fluorophor, and subsequently fluoresce back to the ground state.\n\nCommon pigments used in phosphorescent materials include zinc sulfide and strontium aluminate. Use of zinc sulfide for safety related products dates back to the 1930s. However, the development of strontium aluminate, with a luminance approximately 10 times greater than zinc sulfide, has relegated most zinc sulfide based products to the novelty category. Strontium aluminate based pigments are now used in exit signs, pathway marking, and other safety related signage.\n\n"}
{"id": "25017774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25017774", "title": "Photoelectrochemical process", "text": "Photoelectrochemical process\n\nPhotoelectrochemical processes are processes in photoelectrochemistry; they usually involve transforming light into other forms of energy. These processes apply to photochemistry, optically pumped lasers, sensitized solar cells, luminescence, and photochromism.\n\nElectron excitation is the movement of an electron to a higher energy state. This can either be done by photoexcitation (PE), where the original electron absorbs the photon and gains all the photon's energy or by electrical excitation (EE), where the original electron absorbs the energy of another, energetic electron. Within a semiconductor crystal lattice, thermal excitation is a process where lattice vibrations provide enough energy to move electrons to a higher energy band. When an excited electron falls back to a lower energy state again, it is called electron relaxation. This can be done by radiation of a photon or giving the energy to a third spectator particle as well.\n\nIn physics there is a specific technical definition for energy level which is often associated with an atom being excited to an excited state. The excited state, in general, is in relation to the ground state, where the excited state is at a higher energy level than the ground state.\n\nPhotoexcitation is the mechanism of electron excitation by photon absorption, when the energy of the photon is too low to cause photoionization. The absorption of the photon takes place in accordance with Planck's quantum theory.\n\nPhotoexcitation plays role in photoisomerization. Photoexcitation is exploited in dye-sensitized solar cells, photochemistry, luminescence, optically pumped lasers, and in some photochromic applications.\n\nIn chemistry, photoisomerization is molecular behavior in which structural change between isomers is caused by photoexcitation. Both reversible and irreversible photoisomerization reactions exist. However, the word \"photoisomerization\" usually indicates a reversible process. Photoisomerizable molecules are already put to practical use, for instance, in pigments for rewritable CDs, DVDs, and 3D optical data storage solutions. In addition, recent interest in photoisomerizable molecules has been aimed at molecular devices, such as molecular switches, molecular motors, and molecular electronics.\n\nPhotoisomerization behavior can be roughly categorized into several classes. Two major classes are \"trans-cis\" (or 'E-'Z) conversion, and open-closed ring transition. Examples of the former include stilbene and azobenzene. This type of compounds has a double bond, and rotation or inversion around the double bond affords isomerization between the two states. Examples of the latter include fulgide and diarylethene. This type of compounds undergoes bond cleavage and bond creation upon irradiation with particular wavelengths of light. Still another class is the Di-pi-methane rearrangement.\n\nPhotoionization is the physical process in which an incident photon ejects one or more electrons from an atom, ion or molecule. This is essentially the same process that occurs with the photoelectric effect with metals. In the case of a gas or single atoms, the term photoionization is more common.\n\nThe ejected electrons, known as photoelectrons, carry information about their pre-ionized states. For example, a single electron can have a kinetic energy equal to the energy of the incident photon minus the electron binding energy of the state it left. Photons with energies less than the electron binding energy may be absorbed or scattered but will not photoionize the atom or ion.\n\nFor example, to ionize hydrogen, photons need an energy greater than 13.6 electronvolts, which corresponds to a wavelength of 91.2 nm. For photons with greater energy than this, the energy of the emitted photoelectron is given by:\n\nwhere \"h\" is Planck's constant and \"ν\" is the frequency of the photon.\n\nThis formula defines the photoelectric effect.\n\nNot every photon which encounters an atom or ion will photoionize it. The probability of photoionization is related to the photoionization cross-section, which depends on the energy of the photon and the target being considered. For photon energies below the ionization threshold, the photoionization cross-section is near zero. But with the development of pulsed lasers it has become possible to create extremely intense, coherent light where multi-photon ionization may occur. At even higher intensities (around 10 - 10 W/cm of infrared or visible light), non-perturbative phenomena such as \"barrier suppression ionization\" and \"rescattering ionization\" are observed.\n\nSeveral photons of energy below the ionization threshold may actually combine their energies to ionize an atom. This probability decreases rapidly with the number of photons required, but the development of very intense, pulsed lasers still makes it possible. In the perturbative regime (below about 10 W/cm at optical frequencies), the probability of absorbing \"N\" photons depends on the laser-light intensity \"I\" as \"I\".\n\nAbove threshold ionization (ATI) is an extension of multi-photon ionization where even more photons are absorbed than actually would be necessary to ionize the atom. The excess energy gives the released electron higher kinetic energy than the usual case of just-above threshold ionization. More precisely, the system will have multiple peaks in its photoelectron spectrum which are separated by the photon energies, this indicates that the emitted electron has more kinetic energy than in the normal (lowest possible number of photons) ionization case. The electrons released from the target will have approximately an integer number of photon-energies more kinetic energy. In intensity regions between 10 W/cm and 10 W/cm, each of MPI, ATI, and barrier suppression ionization can occur simultaneously, each contributing to the overall ionization of the atoms involved.\n\nIn semiconductor physics the Photo-Dember effect (named after its discoverer H. Dember) consists in the formation of a charge dipole in the vicinity of a semiconductor surface after ultra-fast photo-generation of charge carriers. The dipole forms owing to the difference of mobilities (or diffusion constants) for holes and electrons which combined with the break of symmetry provided by the surface lead to an effective charge separation in the direction perpendicular to the surface.\n\nThe Grotthuss–Draper law (also called the Principle of Photochemical Activation) states that only that light which is absorbed by a system can bring about a photochemical change. Materials such as dyes and phosphors must be able to absorb \"light\" at optical frequencies. This law provides a basis for fluorescence and phosphorescence. The law was first proposed in 1817 by Theodor Grotthuss and in 1842, independently, by John William Draper.\n\nThis is considered to be one of the two basic laws of photochemistry. The second law is the Stark–Einstein law, which says that primary chemical or physical reactions occur with each photon absorbed.\n\nThe Stark–Einstein law is named after German-born physicists Johannes Stark and Albert Einstein, who independently formulated the law between 1908 and 1913. It is also known as the photochemical equivalence law or photoequivalence law. In essence it says that every photon that is absorbed will cause a (primary) chemical or physical reaction.\n\nThe photon is a quantum of radiation, or one unit of radiation. Therefore, this is a single unit of EM radiation that is equal to Planck's constant (h) times the frequency of light. This quantity is symbolized by γ, hν, or ħω.\n\nThe photochemical equivalence law is also restated as follows: for every mole of a substance that reacts, an equivalent mole of quanta of light are absorbed. The formula is:\n\nwhere N is Avogadro's number.\n\nThe photochemical equivalence law applies to the part of a light-induced reaction that is referred to as the primary process (i.e. absorption or fluorescence).\n\nIn most photochemical reactions the primary process is usually followed by so-called secondary photochemical processes that are normal interactions between reactants not requiring absorption of light. As a result, such reactions do not appear to obey the one quantum–one molecule reactant relationship.\n\nThe law is further restricted to conventional photochemical processes using light sources with moderate intensities; high-intensity light sources such as those used in flash photolysis and in laser experiments are known to cause so-called biphotonic processes; i.e., the absorption by a molecule of a substance of two photons of light.\n\nIn physics, absorption of electromagnetic radiation is the way by which the energy of a photon is taken up by matter, typically the electrons of an atom. Thus, the electromagnetic energy is transformed to other forms of energy, for example, to heat. The absorption of light during wave propagation is often called attenuation. Usually, the absorption of waves does not depend on their intensity (linear absorption), although in certain conditions (usually, in optics), the medium changes its transparency dependently on the intensity of waves going through, and the Saturable absorption (or nonlinear absorption) occurs.\n\nPhotosensitization is a process of transferring the energy of absorbed light. After absorption, the energy is transferred to the (chosen) reactants. This is part of the work of photochemistry in general. In particular this process is commonly employed where reactions require light sources of certain wavelengths that are not readily available.\n\nFor example, mercury absorbs radiation at 1849 and 2537 angstroms, and the source is often high-intensity mercury lamps. It is a commonly used sensitizer. When mercury vapor is mixed with ethylene, and the compound is irradiated with a mercury lamp, this results in the photodecomposition of ethylene to acetylene. This occurs on absorption of light to yield excited state mercury atoms, which are able to transfer this energy to the ethylene molecules, and are in turn deactivated to their initial energy state.\n\nCadmium; some of the noble gases, for example xenon; zinc; benzophenone; and a large number of organic dyes, are also used as sensitizers.\n\nPhotosensitisers are a key component of photodynamic therapy used to treat cancers.\n\nA sensitizer in chemiluminescence is a chemical compound, capable of light emission after it has received energy from a molecule, which became excited previously in the chemical reaction. A good example is this:\n\nWhen an alkaline solution of sodium hypochlorite and a concentrated solution of hydrogen peroxide are mixed, a reaction occurs:\n\nO*is excited oxygen – meaning, one or more electrons in the O molecule have been promoted to higher-energy molecular orbitals. Hence, oxygen produced by this chemical reaction somehow 'absorbed' the energy released by the reaction and became excited. This energy state is unstable, therefore it will return to the ground state by lowering its energy. It can do that in more than one way:\n\n\nThe intensity, duration and color of emitted light depend on quantum and kinetical factors. However, excited molecules are frequently less capable of light emission in terms of brightness and duration when compared to sensitizers. This is because sensitizers can store energy (that is, be excited) for longer periods of time than other excited molecules. The energy is stored through means of quantum vibration, so sensitizers are usually compounds which either include systems of aromatic rings or many conjugated double and triple bonds in their structure. Hence, if an excited molecule transfers its energy to a sensitizer thus exciting it, longer and easier to quantify light emission is often observed.\n\nThe color (that is, the wavelength), brightness and duration of emission depend upon the sensitizer used. Usually, for a certain chemical reaction, many different sensitizers can be used.\n\n\nFluorescence spectroscopy aka fluorometry or spectrofluorometry, is a type of electromagnetic spectroscopy which analyzes fluorescence from a sample. It involves using a beam of light, usually ultraviolet light, that excites the electrons in molecules of certain compounds and causes them to emit light of a lower energy, typically, but not necessarily, visible light. A complementary technique is absorption spectroscopy.\n\nDevices that measure fluorescence are called fluorometers or fluorimeters.\n\nAbsorption spectroscopy refers to spectroscopic techniques that measure the absorption of radiation, as a function of frequency or wavelength, due to its interaction with a sample. The sample absorbs energy, i.e., photons, from the radiating field. The intensity of the absorption varies as a function of frequency, and this variation is the absorption spectrum. Absorption spectroscopy is performed across the electromagnetic spectrum.\n\n"}
{"id": "45647913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45647913", "title": "Portakar", "text": "Portakar\n\nPortakar or navel stones () are traditional ritual stones in Armenia. They are bound up with cult of the fertility goddess, called in ancient Armenia, like the cult of the goddess Anahit.\n\nAccording to Armenian mythology, women who wished to become pregnant must lean their stomach against the stone. Candle lighting was part of the cult. If a woman became pregnant she should come back and make a mark at the stone.\n"}
{"id": "5718055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5718055", "title": "Project West Ford", "text": "Project West Ford\n\nProject West Ford (also known as Westford Needles and Project Needles) was a test carried out by Massachusetts Institute of Technology's Lincoln Laboratory on behalf of the United States Military in 1961 and 1963 to create an artificial ionosphere above the Earth. This was done to solve a major weakness that had been identified in US military communications.\n\nAt the height of the Cold War, all international communications were either sent through undersea cables or bounced off the natural ionosphere. The United States Military was concerned that the Soviets might cut those cables, forcing the unpredictable ionosphere to be the only means of communication with overseas forces. So, a ring of 480,000,000\ncopper dipole antennas (1.78 cm long needles, 25.4μm [1961] / 17.8μm [1963] in diameter) was placed in orbit to facilitate global radio communication. The length was chosen because it was half the wavelength of the 8 GHz signal used in the study. The dipoles collectively provided passive support to Project Westford's parabolic dish (located in the town of Westford) to communicate with distant sites. In 1958, at MIT’s Lincoln Lab, Walter E. Morrow started Project Needles.\n\nA failed first attempt launched on October 21, 1961; the needles failed to disperse. The project was eventually successful with the May 9, 1963 launch, with radio transmissions carried by the man-made ring. However, the technology was ultimately shelved, partially due to the development of the modern communications satellite and partially due to protests from other scientists. The needles were placed in medium Earth orbit between high at 96 and 87 degree inclinations and contributed to Earth's orbital debris.\nBritish radio astronomers, together with optical astronomers and the Royal Astronomical Society, protested this action. The Soviet newspaper \"Pravda\" also joined the protests under the headline \"U.S.A. Dirties Space\".\nThe issue was raised in the United Nations where then US Ambassador to the UN Adlai Stevenson defended the project.\nStevenson studied the published journal articles on Project West Ford. Using what he learned on the subject and citing the articles he had read, he successfully allayed the fears exhibited by the vast majority of UN ambassadors from other countries. He and the articles explained that sunlight pressure would cause the dipoles to only remain in orbit for a short period of approximately three years. The international protest ultimately resulted in a consultation provision included in the 1967 Outer Space Treaty. Fifty years later in 2013, some of the dipoles that did not deploy correctly still remain in clumps which make up a small amount of the orbital debris tracked by NASA’s Orbital Debris Program Office.\n\n, 38 clumps of needles are still in orbit, their number having diminished as they occasionally re-enter.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "1146459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1146459", "title": "Protonium", "text": "Protonium\n\nProtonium (symbol: Pn), also known as antiprotonic hydrogen, is a type of exotic atom in which a proton (symbol: p) and an antiproton (symbol: ) orbit each other. Since protonium is a bound system of a particle and its corresponding antiparticle, it is an example of a type of exotic atom called an onium.\n\nLike all onia, protonium is a boson with all quantum numbers (baryon number, flavour quantum numbers, etc.) and electrical charge equal to 0.\n\nThere are two known methods to generate protonium. One method involves violent particle collisions. The other method involves putting antiprotons and protons into the same magnetic cage. The latter method was first used during the experiment ATHENA (ApparaTus for High precision Experiment on Neutral Antimatter) by Evandro Lodi Rizzini's working group at the CERN laboratory in Geneva in 2002, but it was not until 2006 that scientists realized protonium was also generated during the experiment.\n\nReactions involving a proton and an antiproton at high energies give rise to many-particle final states. In fact, such reactions are the basis of particle colliders such as the Tevatron at Fermilab. Indirect searches for protonium at LEAR (Low Energy Antiproton Ring at CERN) have used antiprotons impinging on nuclei such as helium, with unclear results. Very low energy collisions in the range of 10 eV to 1 keV may lead to the formation of protonium.\n\nPlanned experiments will use traps as the source of low energy antiprotons. Such a beam would be allowed to impinge on atomic hydrogen targets, in the field of a laser, which is meant to excite the bound proton–antiproton pairs into an excited state of protonium with some efficiency (whose computation is an open theoretical problem). Unbound particles are rejected by bending them in a magnetic field. Since the protonium is uncharged, it will not be deflected by such a field. This undeflected protonium, if formed, would be allowed to traverse a meter of high vacuum, within which it is expected to decay via annihilation of the proton and antiproton. The decay products would give unmistakable signatures of the formation of protonium.\n\nTheoretical studies of protonium have mainly used non-relativistic quantum mechanics. These give predictions for the binding energy and lifetime of the states. Computed lifetimes are in the range of 0.1 to 10 microseconds. Unlike the hydrogen atom, in which the dominant interactions are due to the Coulomb attraction of the electron and the proton, the constituents of protonium interact predominantly through the strong interaction. Thus multiparticle interactions involving mesons in intermediate states may be important. Hence the production and study of protonium would be of interest also for the understanding of internucleon forces.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21906706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21906706", "title": "SolarMagic", "text": "SolarMagic\n\nSolarMagic is a subsidiary brand of Texas Instruments, selling electronics for photovoltaic systems. It was established in 2008 as a subsidiary brand of National Semiconductor. The brand name was carried through when TI purchased National Semiconductor in 2011.\n\nThe original SolarMagic device was a proprietary brand of power optimizer, a device which isolates the output from each PV-module from the rest of the system, preventing loss of performance by a single module from effecting the rest of the array. Because of the electronic characteristics of solar arrays, real-world conditions such as partial/temporary shading and irregular panel performance can lead to disproportionate and excessive losses of power output from the system. In one study, shading over a day of between 8% and 16% of the PV system surface area led to relative array power losses of between 35% and 40%. Despite National Semiconductor advertisement claims that their power optimizer could recoup up to 57% of the power lost as a result of these phenomena, real-world results typically ranged between 1% and 6% of overall system output improvement.\n\n"}
{"id": "36688421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36688421", "title": "Solar energy in Georgia (country)", "text": "Solar energy in Georgia (country)\n\nSolar energy in Georgia is widely available, due to high average insolation. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "11958274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11958274", "title": "South Stream", "text": "South Stream\n\nSouth Stream (, , , , , ) was a pipeline project to transport natural gas of the Russian Federation through the Black Sea to Bulgaria and through Serbia, Hungary and Slovenia further to Austria. \n\nThe project created controversy due to non-compliance with European Union competition and energy legislation, in particular the Third Energy Package, which stipulates the separation of companies' generation and sale operations from their transmission networks.\n\nIt was seen as rival to the Nabucco pipeline project. Construction of the Russian onshore facilities for the pipeline started in December 2012. The project was cancelled by Russia in December 2014 following obstacles from Bulgaria and the EU, the 2014 Crimean crisis, and the imposition of European sanctions on Russia. The project has been replaced by proposals of Turkish Stream and Tesla pipeline.\n\nThe South Stream pipeline project was announced on 23 June 2007, when the Chief Executive Officer of the Italian energy company Eni Paolo Scaroni and the Vice-Chairman of Russian Gazprom Alexander Medvedev signed in Rome a memorandum of understanding for construction of the pipeline. On 22 November 2007, Gazprom and Eni signed in Moscow an agreement on establishing a joint project company for the commissioning of the marketing and technical feasibility studies of the project.\n\nThe preliminary agreement between Russia and Bulgaria on Bulgaria's participation in the project was signed on 18 January 2008. It was agreed to set up an equally owned company to build and operate the Bulgarian section of the pipeline. The agreement was ratified by Bulgarian Parliament on 25 July 2008. The first agreement between Russia and Serbia was signed even before the announcement of the South Stream project. On 20 December 2006, Gazprom and Serbian state-owned gas company Srbijagas agreed to conduct a study on building a gas pipeline running from Bulgaria to Serbia. On 25 January 2008, Russia and Serbia signed an agreement to route a northern line of South Stream through Serbia and to create a joint company to build the Serbian section of the pipeline and a gas storage facility near Banatski Dvor. On the same day, Russia and Hungary agreed to set up an equally owned joint company to build and operate the Hungarian section. On 29 April 2008, Russia and Greece signed an intergovernmental agreement on cooperation in construction and operation of the Greek section.\n\nOn 15 May 2009, in Sochi, in presence of the Prime Minister of Russia Vladimir Putin and the Prime Minister of Italy Silvio Berlusconi, the gas companies of Russia, Italy, Bulgaria, Serbia and Greece signed an agreement on construction of South Stream. On 6 August 2009, the Prime Minister of Russia Vladimir Putin and the Prime Minister of Turkey Recep Tayyip Erdoğan in attendance of the Prime Minister of Italy Silvio Berlusconi signed a protocol routing the pipeline through the Turkish territorial waters. On 14 November 2009, followed the talks between Slovenian Prime Minister Borut Pahor and Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, the agreement to run a part of the pipeline through Slovenia to Northern Italy was signed by Russian Energy Minister Sergei Shmatko and Slovenian Economy Minister Matej Lahovnik in Moscow. As per earlier 2008 agreement between two countries, on 17 November 2009, Russian Gazprom and Serbian Srbijagas created South Stream Serbia AG in Bern, Switzerland. The joint company was responsible for design, financing, construction and operation of the Serbia section.\n\nOn 2 March 2010, Russian Energy Minister Sergei Shmatko and Croatian Economy, Labor and Entrepreneurship Minister Djuro Popijac in the presence of the Prime Minister of Russia Vladimir Putin and Prime Minister of Croatia Jadranka Kosor signed an agreement on linking Croatia with South Stream. On 19 June 2010, Gazprom, Eni, and Électricité de France published a joint press release confirming that EDF will join the project. On 21 March 2011, Slovenia and Russia signed an agreement regarding the establishment of a joint venture South Stream Slovenia.\n\nThe joint venture South Stream AG, equally owned by Gazprom and Eni, was registered on 18 January 2008 in Switzerland. However, on 16 September 2011, a shareholders' agreement was signed between Gazprom, Eni, Électricité de France and Wintershall to establish the new project company South Stream Transport AG for the Black Sea section of the pipeline. The company was incorporated on 3 October 2011 in Zug, Switzerland.\n\nOn December 28, 2011 Turkey issued its final agreement for allowing the pipeline to pass through its territorial waters. The final investment decision for the Serbian section was signed on 29 October 2012, for the Hungarian section on 2 November 2012, for the Slovenian section on 13 November 2012, and for the Bulgarian section on 15 November 2012. On 15 November 2012, shareholders of South Stream Transport AG signed the final investment decision on the offshore section. The ground-breaking ceremony marking start of construction of the Russian onshore facilities was held on 7 December 2012 at the Russkaya compressor station near Anapa.\n\nOn 25 July 2013, the Vice Premier Republic of Macedonia Zoran Stavreski signed the agreement on linking section through Republic of Macedonia with South Stream.\n\nIn March and April 2014, the contracts for laying the first and second lines of the offshore section were awarded to Saipem and Allseas. Contracts for the third and fourth line were to be signed in December 2014 and January 2015.\n\nOn 17 April 2014, amid Russia's annexation of Crimea, the European Parliament adopted a non-binding resolution opposing the South Stream gas pipeline and recommending a search for alternative sources of gas supplies for the European Union. On 29 April 2014 a memorandum on the implementation of the Austrian section was signed in Moscow. Commissioning of the Austrian section is scheduled by January 2018. In June 2014, Bulgaria temporarily stopped construction due to the European Commission's infringement procedure against Bulgaria for non-compliance with European rules on energy competition public procurements.\n\nIn April 2014, Russia filed a complaint at the World Trade Organization against the European Union's energy market laws that were enacted in 2009, claiming that they violate international rules. These laws ban suppliers from owning transit facilities such as gas pipelines, and would force Gazprom to allow third-party gas producers to use the South Stream pipeline.\n\nOn 1 December 2014, during a state visit to Turkey, president Putin announced that Russia was withdrawing from the project, blaming Western sanctions and lack of construction permits in the territory of the European Union. Russia has started to build a pipeline through Turkey known as Turkish Stream.\n\nAlong with additional supplied to Turkey, Russian gas, according to Putin, “will be retargeted to other regions of the world, which will be achieved, among other things, through the promotion and accelerated implementation of projects involving liquefied natural gas.” In 2015, the supply of Russian gas to Turkey will be raised by 3 billion cubic meters via the already operating Blue Stream pipeline. Later a new undersea pipeline to Turkey, with an annual capacity around 60 billion cubic metres (bcm) will be built. That will allow Turkey to resell Russian gas to Europe.\n\nIn 2018, Bulgaria's president Rumen Radev proposed that the construction of the South Stream pipeline be resumed.\n\nThe pipeline was to consist of the Russian onshore pipeline, the Black Sea section and pipelines in the South- East Europe. The Russian onshore section would have run from the Pochinki compressor station to the Russkaya compressor station near Anapa. The long offshore section was to run from the Russkaya compressor station through the Black Sea to Galata near Varna, Bulgaria. Because of the Russia–Ukraine gas disputes, the pipeline was to be routed through Turkey's waters to avoid the exclusive economic zone of Ukraine. At the same time Russia's 2014 annexation of Crimea would have allowed more direct route through the Crimean waters.\n\nThe long onshore section was to start from Varna and run to Pleven. From there, the original southwestern route was to continue through Greece and Ionian Sea to southern Italy. However, this route was abandoned. The newer northwestern route would have continued from Pleven to Serbia. In Serbia, then running through Zaječar and Paraćin to Čenta. From Čenta the main pipeline would have continued in direction of Gospođinci while branch-off line would run to Republika Srpska in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Srbijagas planned to construct along Sava river a long branch pipeline with a capacity of to Banja Luka and Sarajevo. It was also surmised that Montenegro could have connected to the pipeline.\n\nBefore reaching Gospođinci, the main line was to split. One route would continue through Serbia and Hungary to Baumgarten an der March in Austria. Another route would have continued through Gospođinci and Bački Breg also to Hungary with branch-off to Croatia. In Hungary it would have gone through Hercegszántó and Tornyiszentmiklós to Slovenia and further in direction of Tarvisio to supply northern Italy.\n\nThe feasibility study of the offshore section was conducted by Saipem, a subsidiary of Eni. Planning was done by INTECSEA, a subsidiary of WorleyParsons. Giprospetsgas, an affiliate of\nGazprom, has been appointed as a general design contractor. The offshore pipeline is planned to carry of natural gas per year. It will have four parallel lines with capacity of each. The offshore pipeline will use pipes with a diameter of , designed for of working pressure and having the pipe wall thickness of . The first line should be ready by the end of 2015, the second and third lines by the end of 2016, and the fourth line by the end of 2017. The offshore section is expected to cost €10 billion.\n\nPipeline sections in Bulgaria, Serbia, Hungary, and Slovenia would have capacity at least per year. The onshore pipeline will have eight compressor stations and it is expected to cost €6 billion.\n\nAt least two gas storage facilities would be constructed of which one would be an underground storage facility in Hungary with capacity of minimum and another one in Banatski Dvor, Serbia with capacity of . Hungarian oil and gas company MOL Group has offered its empty natural gas field at Pusztaföldvár as a storage facility. British Melrose Resources is planning to convert the Galata offshore field in Bulgaria to a gas storage facility with initial capacity of by 2009. There are also allegations that the South Stream pipeline will be connected to the Wingas-owned Haidach gas storage.\n\nThe pipeline would be built and operated by several project companies. For the construction and operation of the offshore section of South Stream originally two companies were established, both in Zug in Switzerland with the share capital of 100,000 CHF. South Stream AG, a joint venture between Gazprom and Eni was incorporated on 18 January 2008, and South Stream Transport AG, a joint company of Gazprom, Eni, Électricité de France, and Wintershall was incorporated on 3 October 2011. Head of South Stream Transport AG is Marcel Kramer, former chief executive officer of the gas transportation company Gasunie. Executive director is Oleg Aksyutin. Gazprom owns 50% of shares of South Stream Transport AG, Eni 20%, and Électricité de France and Wintershall 15% both. In November 2012, it was decided to incorporate South Stream Transport B.V., the current project company, in Amsterdam. Earlier Eni had registered in Amsterdam a company named South Stream BV, but in February 2012 it was renamed Eni JPDA 11-106 BV.\n\nThe Bulgarian section of the pipeline will be built and operated by a joint venture of Gazprom and Bulgargaz and the Serbian section by the joint venture of Gazprom and Srbijagas. The Hungarian section will be built and operated by the equally owned joint venture between Gazprom and the state-owned Hungarian Development Bank MFB, which will buy the elaborated feasibility study of Hungarian section from SEP Co., a joint venture of Gazprom and MOL. The Slovenia section would be built and operated by an equally owned joint venture of Gazprom and Geoplin Plinovodi. For construction of the Croatian section a 50-50 Russian-Croatian joint company would be established.\n\nThe South Stream project was seen as a rival to the Nabucco pipeline project. Some experts like Alan Riley from London City University were claiming that the South Stream pipeline is a political project to counter Nabucco and to expand Russian presence in the region.\n\nCEO of Eni Paolo Scaroni proposed to merge Nabucco and South Stream projects to \"reduce investments, operational costs and increase overall returns\". This proposal was rejected by energy minister of Russia Sergei Shmatko saying that \"South Stream is more competitive than Nabucco\" and that \"Nabucco and South Stream are far from being competitors\". Also OMV, a partner in both projects, has said that there were no ongoing discussions about merging the projects.\n\nSouth Stream has been seen as diverting some gas transported through Ukraine, instead of providing a new source of gas for Europe. To avoid Ukraine's exclusive economic zone, the pipeline was re-routed through Turkish waters.\n\nBefore stepping down from the premiership, Italian Prime Minister Romano Prodi received an offer from Gazprom to become the Chairman of South Stream AG. This move was compared with the appointment of the former Chancellor of Germany Gerhard Schröder to lead Nord Stream AG, a consortium operating the Nord Stream pipeline. Prodi has declined this offer. According to the Prodi's spokesman \"Prodi was extremely flattered, but reiterated that he wants to take some time off to ponder after leaving Italian politics.\"\n\nIn May 2014, it was disclosed that the contract for construction of the Bulgarian section was awarded to Stroytransgaz, a company controlled by Gennady Timchenko though his Volga Group. Earlier Timchenko was included in the sanctions list in the wake of the annexation of Crimea by Russia due to his close ties with President Putin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "153715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=153715", "title": "Spring-loaded camming device", "text": "Spring-loaded camming device\n\nA spring-loaded camming device (also SLCD, cam or friend) is a piece of rock climbing or mountaineering protection equipment. It consists of two, three, or four cams mounted on a common axle or two adjacent axles, so that pulling on the axle forces the cams to spread farther apart. This is then attached to a sling and carabiner at the end of the stem. The SLCD is used by pulling on the \"trigger\" (a small handle) so the cams retract together, then inserting it into a crack or pocket in the rock and releasing the trigger to allow the cams to expand. A pull on the rope, such as that generated by a climber falling, will cause a properly placed SLCD to convert the pulling force along the stem of the unit into outwards pressure on the rock, generating massive amounts of friction and preventing the removal of the unit from the rock. Because of the large forces which are exerted on the rock when an SLCD is fallen on, it is very important that SLCDs are only placed in solid, strong rock.\n\nVitaly Abalakov's invention of the Abalakov Cam was the first application to climbing of the principle of a cam to climbing equipment. His cams were sections cut out of a pulley wheel and bear a remarkable resemblance to today's TriCams. Because these shapes were eccentric, the intercept angle of the cam changed as the cam rotates and expands.\n\nIn 1973 Greg Lowe filed for a patent for a cam that used a cam with a \"constant intercept\" angle. Using a logarithmic spiral. shape resulted in a uniform angle between the rock and each lobe of the cam; this constant angle is designed to always provide the necessary friction to hold a cam in equilibrium. Designed so that a load produces a rotational force, the logarithmic cam shape allowed for a single device to fit securely in a range of crack sizes.\n\nModern SLCDs were invented by Ray Jardine in 1978 (US patent 4,184,657) and sold under the brand name of \"Friends\". Ray designed a spring-loaded opposing multiple cam unit with a more stable 13.75 degree camming angle and an innovative triggering mechanism. (The term \"friend\" is now widely used by climbers to refer to SLCDs in general, but properly speaking it refers to the brand popularized by Mark Vallance and now manufactured by Wild Country.) Other popular brands include Black Diamond Camalots, Metolius Power Cams, DMM 4CUs, Trango FlexCams, and CCH Aliens.\n\nThe invention of SLCDs revolutionized rock climbing because it meant that cam (aka protection) could be placed into parallel or flared cracks so as to prevent the climber hitting the ground if they fell. Furthermore, unlike pitons, SLCDs can be removed easily without causing damage to the rock, which made clean climbing (climbing without damaging the rock) practical on many more climbs. Since the invention of the Technical Friend (which replaces the original one-piece machined alloy shaft with a brazed assembly incorporating a length of thick stainless-steel cable, which is better able to cope with loading over an edge), there has been a great deal of development of the SLCD by a variety of manufacturers. For example, the adoption of the dual axle design by Black Diamond, the invention of three-lobed camming units to fit smaller cracks, and the more recent invention of the Link Cam by Omega Pacific, a design that allows one SLCD to span an even larger range of crack sizes. SLCDs are sold in various sizes to fit a diverse range of cracks from about wide, though devices of below about or above about are not often seen.\n\nModern traditional climbers often climb with numerous and variously sized SLCDs to cover a wide range of crack sizes, often with multiples of the same size, depending on protection requirements of the climb.\n\n"}
{"id": "637066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=637066", "title": "Stone circle", "text": "Stone circle\n\nA stone circle is a circular alignment of standing stones. They are commonly found across Northern Europe and Great Britain and typically date from the Late Neolithic and Early Bronze Age eras, with most concentrations appearing from 3000 BC. The best known examples include those at the henge monument at Avebury, the Rollright Stones and elements within the ring of standing stones at Stonehenge. \n\nStone circles are usually grouped in terms of the shape and size of the stones, the span of their radius and their population within the local area. Although many theories have been advance to explain their use, usually around providing a setting for ceremony or ritual, there is no consensus among archaeologists as to their intended function. Their construction often involved considerable communal effort, including specialist tasks such as planning, quarrying, transportation, laying the foundation trenches, and final construction. \n\nThe earliest known circles were erected around five thousand years ago during the Neolithic period. During the Middle Neolithic (c. 3700–2500 BCE) stone circles began to appear in coastal and lowland areas towards the north of the United Kingdom. The Langdale axe industry in the Lake District appears to have been an important early centre for circle building, perhaps because of its economic power. Many had closely set stones, perhaps similar to the earth banks of henges, others were made from unfounded boulders rather than standing stones.\n\nThe sites do not contain evidence of human dwelling. This suggests that stone circles were constructed for ceremonies. The variety of the stones excludes the possibility that they had astronomical observation purposes of any precision.\n\nSometimes a stone circle is found in association with a burial pit or burial chamber, but the great majority of these monuments have no such association.\n\nRecumbent stone circles are a variation containing a single large stone placed on its side. The stones are often ordered by height, with the tallest being the portals, with gradually reducing heights around each side of the circle, down to the recumbent stone, which is the lowest. The type is found throughout the British Isles and Brittany, with 71 examples in Scotland, and at least 20 in south west Ireland, including Drombeg stone circle near Rosscarbery, Co. Cork. \n\nScottish recumbent circles are usually flanked by the two largest of the standing stones immediately on either side. These are known as 'flankers'. The stones are commonly graded in height with the lowest stones being diametrically opposite to the tall flankers. It is fairly common for the circle to contain a ring cairn and cremation remains. \n\nIrish recumbent stone circles are found in Cork and Kerry. There are no tall flanking stones on either side of the recumbent stone. Instead, there are two tall stones at the side of the circle opposite the recumbent stone. These are known as 'portals' as they form an entrance into the circle. Often the portals are turned so that their flat sides face each other, rather than facing into the centre of the circle. \n\nA concentric stone circle is a type of prehistoric monument consisting of a circular or oval arrangement of two or more stone circles set within one another. They were in use from the late Neolithic to the end of the early Bronze Age, and are found in England and Scotland.\n\nCobble pavements have been found in the centre of many examples. Connected features at some sites include central mounds, outlying standing stones, and avenues or circular banks on which the stones are set. Alternatively, they may be replicas of earlier timber circles rebuilt in stone, especially the examples in Wessex.\n\nA funerary purpose is thought likely, especially by Burl who sees sites in Cumbria as being analogous to the kerbs that surround some chamber tombs.\nBurials have been found at all excavated concentric stone circles: both inhumations and cremations, with the burnt remains either within an urn or placed directly in the earth.\n\nMegalithic monuments are found in especially great number on the European Atlantic fringe and in the British Isles.\n\nThere are approximately 1,300 stone circles in Britain and Ireland. The French archaeologist Jean-Pierre Mohen in his book \"\" has written that British Isles megalithism are \"outstanding in the abundance of standing stones, and the variety of circular architectural complexes of which they formed a part ... strikingly original, they have no equivalent elsewhere in Europe – strongly supporting the argument that the builders were independent.\"\n\nAlthough widely distributed across the island, the two main concentrations of stone circles in Ireland are in the Cork/Kerry area and in mid-Ulster. The latter typically consist of larger amount of small stones, usually 03.m high, are often found in upland areas, and on sites that also contain a stone alignment. The Cork/Kerry circles tend to be more irregular in shape, and with larger, but fewer and more widely spaced, orthostats around the axial stone.\n\nOn the European continent, there are several examples in Brittany: two on the island of Er Lannic and two more suggested at Carnac. The Petit Saint Bernard circle lies further afield, in the French Alps. There are several examples in the Alentejo region of Portugal, the oldest and most complete being the Almendres Cromlech, near the regional capital of Évora and within its municipality. Many others have left behind them only the central Anta (as they are known in the Alentejo) sometimes as an altar but more often as a central burial structure, originally surrounded by megaliths that have only sparsely survived erosion and human activities.\n\nThese circles are also known as harrespil in the Basque country, where villagers call them \"mairu-baratz\" or \"jentil-baratz\" that means \"pagan garden (cemetery)\", referring to mythological giants of the pre-Christian era. No example has survived in a good state of preservation but like the Alentejo, the Basque Country is dotted with eroded and vandalized examples of many such structures.\n\nAncient stone circles are found throughout the Horn of Africa. Booco in northeastern Somalia contains a number of such old structures. Small stone circles here surround two enclosed platform monuments, which are set together. The circles of stone are believed to mark associated graves.\n\nAt Emba Darho in the Ethiopian and Eritrean highlands, two kinds of megalithic circles are found. The first type consists of single stone circles, whereas the second type comprises an inner circle enclosed within a larger circle (i.e. double stone circles).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41427201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41427201", "title": "Swill", "text": "Swill\n\nSwill is food for animals in liquid or partly liquid form.\n\nThe term can also be used as an extremely derogatory label for any drink meant for human ingestion perceived as unpalatable or nearly so. \n\nPig swill, hog swill, hogwash is kitchen refuse used to feed pigs.\n\nHistorically pig farmers arranged collection of swill, e.g. by means of swill bins. The grease was skimmed off the swill tanks and sold for further processing, while the remaining swill was processed into pig food.\n\nDuring World War II collection of pig swill was a nationwide campaign in Great Britain.\n\nDuring the 2001 United Kingdom foot-and-mouth outbreak it was thought that unprocessed pig swill was a key link in the chain of the infection, and it was banned in Great Britain. In 2003 the ban was expanded to the whole European Union.\n\nThere is now significant research and support from farmers for a return to feeding swill to pigs, not only as a way to reduce pig feed costs but also to reduce demands on agricultural land for pig feed.\n\n"}
{"id": "47362523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47362523", "title": "Telangana State Electricity Regulatory Commission", "text": "Telangana State Electricity Regulatory Commission\n\nTelangana State Electricity Regulatory Commission (TSERC)() is a governing body to control certain regulatory and safety functions related to the power sector in the Indian state of Telangana.\n\nConsequent to the formation of Telangana State, Telangana State Electricity Regulatory Commission (TSERC) was constituted on 3 November 2014. It was incorporated under the Electricity Regulatory Commission Act, 1998, of Central Act in August 1999. In 2003, Under Section 82 of the Electricity Act the Commission is continued as regulatory body in state.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10901904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10901904", "title": "Thermophotonics", "text": "Thermophotonics\n\nThermophotonics (often abbreviated as TPX) is a concept for generating usable power from heat which shares some features of thermophotovoltaic (TPV) power generation. \"Thermophotonics\" was first publicly proposed by solar photovoltaic researcher Martin Green in 2000. However, no TPX device is known to have been demonstrated to date, apparently because of the stringent requirement on the emitter efficiency. \n\nA TPX system consists of a light-emitting diode (LED) (though other types of emitters are conceivable), a photovoltaic (PV) cell, an optical coupling between the two, and an electronic control circuit. The LED is heated to a temperature higher than the PV temperature by an external heat source. If no power is applied to the LED, the system functions much like a very inefficient TPV system, but if a forward bias is applied at some fraction of the bandgap potential, an increased number of electron-hole pairs (EHPs) will be thermally excited to the bandgap energy. These EHPs can then recombine radiatively so that the LED emits light at a rate higher than the thermal radiation rate (\"superthermal\" emission). This light is then delivered to the cooler PV cell over the optical coupling and converted to electricity.\n\nThe control circuit presents a load to the PV cell (presumably at the maximum power point) and converts this voltage to a voltage level that can be used to sustain the bias of the emitter. Provided that the conversion efficiencies of electricity to light and light to electricity are sufficiently high, the power harnessed from the PV cell can exceed the power going into the bias circuit, and this small fraction of excess power (originating from the heat difference) can be utilized. It is thus in some sense a photonic heat engine.\n\nPossible applications of thermophotonic generators include solar thermal electricity generation and utilization of waste heat. TPX systems may have the potential to generate power with useful levels of output at temperatures where only thermoelectric systems are now practical, but with higher efficiency.\n\nA patent application for a thermophotonic generator using a vacuum gap with thickness on the order of a micrometer or less was published by the US Patent Office in 2009 and assigned to MTPV Corporation of Austin, Texas, USA. This proposed variant of the technology allows better thermal insulation because of the gap between the hot emitter and cold receiver, while maintaining relatively good optical coupling between them due to the gap's being small relative to the optical wavelength.\n\n"}
{"id": "39834364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39834364", "title": "Toll Resources &amp; Government Logistics", "text": "Toll Resources &amp; Government Logistics\n\nToll Resources & Government Logistics (TRGL) is a division of the Toll Group. Predominantly, the division offers integrated logistics solutions to the oil and gas, mining, chemicals and coal industries in over 10 countries.\n\nToll Offshore Petroleum Services is the owner-operator of offshore supply bases at Loyang in Singapore, Sihanoukville in Cambodia, and Sattahip in Thailand. Toll Offshore Petroleum Services supports onshore and offshore oil and gas exploration, development and production activities in the Asia-Pacific region from China in the north to Australia and Papua New Guinea in the South, as well as the Caspian Sea region.\n\nToll Marine Logistics (Australia) services include remote area stevedoring, shipping and marine logistics linking northern Australia to the Asia Pacific region. It also provides integrated supply chain management including intermodal services. It employs about 300 people and has strong links within the Asia Pacific sphere. Toll Marine Logistics (Asia) offers customised solutions for bulk handling and transportation of coal, steel scrap, billets, iron ores and pellets, and sand and aggregates. Its service extend to entities in Indonesia, Malaysia, Cambodia, Vietnam, Philippines, Thailand and Myanmar.\n\nToll Energy is the largest provider of specialised integrated logistics services to the Australian oil and gas exploration, construction, and production industry. It has a network of supply bases located in the North West Shelf, Timor Sea, Bass Strait, Adelaide, Browse Basin, Cooper Basin, Brisbane, Singapore, Cambodia and Thailand.\n\nToll Mining Services provides customised supply chain services to entities within the mining, chemical, petroleum and energy sectors. They also specialise in inbound and outbound dangerous goods and chemical logistics for the hard rock and coal mining industries. Its services include bulk haulage of commodities such as coal, zinc, lead, iron ore, crude oil, petrol and salt; on and off haulage services including those with high payloads; fuel management and transport; transport of specialised bulk such as security sensitive ammonium nitrate and its storage and management; logistics for explosives; and inbound industrial chemical logistics.\n\nToll Remote Logistics provides integrated remote logistics services in some of the most isolated and challenging locations in the world. It provides services to military, naval and peace-keeping forces; entities within the mining sector and other commercial and not for profit organisations situated in remote locations. It delivers over 5 million litres of diesel and aviation fuels to a wide range of operational locations each month. Toll Remote Logistics can have a mobile camp up and running within 2 hours.\n\nToll Liquids specialises in the transportation of bulk liquids and industrial gases by road for both dangerous goods and non-dangerous goods including food.\n\nToll Transitions provides removal and relocation services to about 300 Australian organizations and government departments. On average Toll Transitions manages about 30,000 relocations each year.\n\nThe $300 million upgrade of the Toll Offshore Petroleum Services facility in Loyang, Singapore, means that the firm owns one of the three major oil and gas hubs in the world. This facility operates on a 24/7 basis and has a berthing length of 1,000 metres and a water depth of 8.5 metres. It can accommodate more than 11 vessels at once, including large vessels such as drill ships. \nIt has a multi-storey ramp-up warehouse that has designated areas for the safe storage of dangerous goods. Toll Energy provides warehousing and open storage and offshore warehouse management. For dangerous goods specifically, transport and storage is provided in purpose built facilities designed in conjunction with clients. Toll Mining Services has warehousing including security sensitive ammonium nitrate storage facilities. Toll Remote Logistics provides warehousing and fuel bunkering, storage and distribution.\n\nAs at June 2012 Toll Marine Logistics (Australia) had a fleet of 10 vessels including landing craft and container vessels. Toll Marine Logistics (Asia) had a fleet of over 80 vessels including tugs; dumb, self-propelled and discharging barges; landing craft; floating cranes, a floating terminal and a floating workshop and maintenance facility; and container vessels. Toll Marine Logistics operates six terminals in Australia and two facilities located in Singapore and Indonesia. Toll Mining Services has a fleet that can take payload tasks of up to 360 tonnes using powered trailer combinations. The fleet can also transport security sensitive ammonium nitrate and explosives.\n\nOn average Toll Transitions manages about 30,000 relocations each year. In July 2010 Toll Transitions commenced its contract with the Australian Defence Force to provide both removal and relocation services which was reported to be more than $1 billion for the first five years. The Minister indicated in January 2012 that Defence usually relocates around 23,000 members and their families each year as part of the military posting cycle.\n\nToll Offshore Petroleum Services has a history spanning over 30 years. The business unit has accreditations in Quality Management Systems; Environmental Management Systems; and Workplace Health and Safety Management Systems. They comply with the International Ship and Port Facility Security Code.\n\nToll Marine Logistics (Australia) has a history spanning over 50 years. The business unit has accreditations in Safety Management Systems; Quality Assurance Management Systems; and Environmental Management Systems. Toll Marine Logistics (Australia) received a 'Highly Commended' award in the Project Cargo category of the 2012 Australia Shipping and Maritime Industry Awards.\n\nToll Energy has a history spanning over 40 years. They provide specialist expertise to support on and offshore oil and gas production and exploration.\n\nToll Mining Services has specialist knowledge and expertise in the logistics of dangerous goods and chemicals. Toll Remote Logistics has an established reputation and track record for providing logistics support to military, naval and peace-keeping forces.\n\nIn April 2014 Toll Energy announced they would be constructing and operating a base in Darwin to support INPEX’s Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) off shore facilities in Ichthys Field in the Browse Basin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56201904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56201904", "title": "Tororo–Opuyo–Lira High Voltage Power Line", "text": "Tororo–Opuyo–Lira High Voltage Power Line\n\nThe Tororo–Opuyo–Lira High Voltage Power Line is a high voltage electricity power line, connecting the high voltage substation at Tororo, to another high voltage substation at Lira, in Uganda.\n\nThe 132kV power line, begins at the 132kV substation at Tororo, in Tororo District, in the Eastern Region of Uganda. The line travels in a northerly direction through Mbale, to the Uganda Electricity Transmission Company Limited high voltage substation at Opuyo, outside of Soroti, in Soroti District. From there, it takes a general north-westerly course, through Dokolo District, to end at Lira, in Lira District, in the Northern Region of Uganda, a total distance of approximately .\n\nThe power line is the major electricity conduit to the Eastern Region of Uganda, with extension to Northern Uganda. It is a 132 kilo-Volt, double-circuit installation, that harnesses power from the hydroelectric power stations on the Victoria Nile and the thermal and solar power plants in Tororo and Soroti, for onward transmission to the east and north of country.\n\nPrior to 2013, the power line was primarily constructed of wooden poles, which were vulnerable to lightning, wild fires and termite damage. In 2013, the government of Uganda, using money borrowed from the African Development Bank, began replacing the wooden poles with metal structures. The main objective is to improve the availability, quality and reliability of power supply. Kalpataru Power Transmission Limited (KPTL), based in India, is the main contractor on this project. The engineering supervisor is \"Hifab Oy\" of Finland. Construction stated in 2013, with completion expected in 2017.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38388127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38388127", "title": "Torre Ejecutiva Pemex explosion", "text": "Torre Ejecutiva Pemex explosion\n\nOn 31 January 2013 in Mexico City, an explosion caused by a gas leak occurred beneath Building B-2 at the Torre Ejecutiva Pemex (Pemex Executive Tower), a skyscraper complex that is the headquarters of Pemex, the Mexican state oil company. At least 37 people died and another 126 were injured when an explosion occurred in a building adjacent to the main tower. Earlier in the day, Pemex sent out a tweet saying that the building was being evacuated due to a \"problem with the electrical system\" in the complex that includes the skyscraper.\n\nAt about local time, an explosion occurred in the basement of a parking garage adjacent to the main office building. The blast caused the first two stories of the fourteen-floor Building B-2 to partially collapse. The cause of the blast was a gas leak that was ignited by an electrical fault.\n\nAn evacuation of the area had been begun in the minutes following the explosion. In the hours after the blast, about 30 people were reported to be trapped in debris, and searches continued into the next day, as Pemex CEO Emilio Lozoya said there were indications that some people remained under the rubble. \n\nAn initial estimate of casualties, given by a Mexico City government official about two hours after the explosion, was of about five dead and 75 injured. By evening, the Mexican interior minister said that the death toll had risen to fourteen, with 80 injuries. , the death toll stood at 33 and was expected to rise, according to a paramedic at the site. There were 12 men and 20 women who were confirmed to have died, along with 121 people injured, 52 of which remained in the hospital the day after the explosion. By 4 February, the death toll had risen to 37, with three more bodies uncovered and the death of an injured woman.\n\nAn estimated 500 rescuers were working at the site through the day on 1 February 2013, including firefighters, military personnel, and Red Cross workers, aided by dogs and a crane. Four helicopters were used to evacuate those injured, in addition to ambulances. While rescue operations were underway, police cordoned off the area around the office complex.\n\nOn 4 February 2013, it was announced by Attorney-General Jesus Murillo Karam that the explosion was caused when a buildup of gas in the basement was ignited by a spark, from what was believed to be an electrical fault. According to Murillo, the explosion had expanded outwards, consistent with a gas explosion, rather than remaining focused in one spot, as a bomb would have done, and none of the victims had injuries of the types associated with bombings.\n\nThrough Twitter, President of Mexico Enrique Peña Nieto wrote: \"I have ordered the relevant authorities to implement rescue protocols and the investigation of the facts. The priority right now is to attend to the injured and to safeguard the physical integrity of those who work there\". He also sent his condolences to relatives: \"I deeply regret the death of fellow PEMEX workers. My condolences to their families\". Peña Nieto also established three days of national mourning.\n\nThe Director General of Pemex, Emilio Lozoya Austin, tweeted: \"My condolences to all the families of workers at Pemex who have lost loved ones in the explosion of today\".\n\nFormer National Action Party presidential candidate Gustavo Madero Muñoz, the governors of Guerrero, Zacatecas, Veracruz, Morelos, Tabasco, and Oaxaca, and the Finance Minister, Luis Videgaray Caso, and several senators also sent their condolences and expressed solidarity with the families of the victims.\n"}
{"id": "42766790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42766790", "title": "Trade Unions International of Chemical, Oil and Allied Workers", "text": "Trade Unions International of Chemical, Oil and Allied Workers\n\nThe Trade Unions International of Chemical, Oil and Allied Workers was a trade union international affiliated with the World Federation of Trade Unions. It was often known by its French initials, ICPS (Union Internationale des Syndicats des Industries, Chimiques, du Petroles et Similares).\n\nThe Union was established at a conference in Budapest, Hungary in March 1950 as the Trade Unions International of Chemical and Allied Workers. It changed its name in 1954 when it expanded its scope to include oil workers. It also represented workers in the glassware, paper and ceramic industries.\n\nIn 1998 a Conference was held in Havana which merged Trade Unions International of Energy Workers (formerly known as the Trade Unions International of Miners) and Trade Union International of Metal and Engineering Workers to form the Trade Union International of Energy, Metal, Chemical, Oil and Allied Industries. This organization was reorganized again as the Trade Unions International of Energy Workers in 2007. This left the metal workers an opportunity create a new TUI the next year, Trade Union International of Workers in the Mining, the Metallurgy and the Metal Industries.\n\nThe TUI was governed by an international trade conference held every four years. The Conference drew up the groups program, made policy decisions and elected an administrative committee. The latter consisted of 25 members drawn from 20 countries and met once a year. The bureau, composed of the TUI president, vice-presidents, general secretary and secretaries met to ensure the fulfillment of the administrative committees decisions and a permanent secretariat oversaw day-to-day operations. Industrial Commissions were also set up to deal with specific issues. In 1978 there commissions on oil (drilling, refining, oil pipelines, distribution), chemicals-pharmaceuticals, paper board, pulp, cellulose, rubber, glass and ceramics.\n\nIn 1955 its headquarters were reported to be in Bucharest, Romania. In 1958 its headquarters was reported to be at 17 Sztalin ter, Budapest VI, Hungary. From 1978 to 1989 it was reported to be at 1415 Budapest, sometimes given the street name Benczur ut 45. In 1991 it was reported at EM26, H 1097.\n\nIn 1958 the ICPS claimed membership in 25 countries. In 1976 it claimed 7 million members in 59 affiliated unions in 37 countries. In 1985 it claimed 13 million members in 100 affiliate in 50 countries.\n\nIn 1975 the following unions were affiliated with ICPS:\n\n\nThe Union published an \"Information Bulletin\" and \"Information Sheet\".\n"}
{"id": "9272650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9272650", "title": "Universal waste", "text": "Universal waste\n\nUniversal waste is a category of waste materials designated as \"hazardous waste\", but containing materials that are very common. It is defined in , by the United States Environmental Protection Agency but states may also have corollary regulations regarding these materials. \n\nUniversal waste includes:\n\nBusinesses and other generators of such waste are required to provide for their proper disposal.\n"}
