{"id": "1547116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1547116", "title": "Abdal", "text": "Abdal\n\nAbdāl (\"lit\": substitutes, but which can also mean \"generous\" [\"karīm\"] and \"noble\" [\"sharīf\"]) is a term used in Islamic metaphysics and Islamic mysticism, both Sunni and Shiite, to refer to a particularly important group of God's saints. In the tradition of Sunni Islam in particular, the concept attained an especially important position in the writings of the Sunni mystics and theologians, whence it appears in the works of Sunni authorities as diverse as Abu Talib al-Makki (d. 956), Ali Hujwiri (d. 1072), Ibn Asakir (d. 1076), Khwaja Abdullah Ansari (d. 1088), and Ibn Khaldun (d. 1406).\n\nIt is a rank of forty saints, but more often the larger group of 356 saints in Sufi hagiography. In this theology it is said that they are only known to and appointed by Allah, and it is through their operations that the world continues to exist. The term over time has come to include a greater hierarchy of saints, all of different rank and prestige.\n\n\"Abdal\" is the plural of \"Badal\" or rather \"Badeel\", and means \"those who get replaced\", \"those who serve as a partial replacement to the role of the prophets\" or \"friends of God\". The Abdals are the group of true, pure believers in God. They serve God during their lifetime; when they die, they are immediately replaced by another selected by God from a larger group said to be the 500 \"Akhyar\", i.e., the semi-divine good ones.\n\nThe Abdals are headed by their leader, \"Al-Ghawth\" (\"the Helper\"), who is said to reside in Mecca. This leader is often referred to as the Qutb, which means \"Pole\" in Arabic. This leader though unknown to the public is usually sought out by all of the lower ranking members of the abdal. At various times in history, shaykhs have been known to publicly claim to be the Qutb, despite the tradition of remaining outside the public eye.\n\nThe missions of the Abdals are to be God's merciful subjects everywhere they reside and to render the helping blessing hand to all of God's creatures.\n\nIt is said that a Badal exists in each continent. Although the majority live in \"Al-Sham (Syria),\"...some live in Iraq, some in Lebanon, some in Egypt, some in Antioch, some in al-Massisa, South Africa and others live throughout the rest of the world.\". They have divine powers and super-natural abilities. A person does not recognize that he is one of the Abdal until he becomes aware of his status suddenly though a revelation. It is said that a Badal can be identified through his continuous good deeds and forgiving nature. He may be rich or poor, married or bachelor, child or adult. Such concepts are established in the Sunni branch of Islam, and in particular in the latter’s original Sufi schools of spiritual disciplines.\n\nThe abdal function as the keepers of equilibrium in the world and preserve it between the times when prophets are present. Varying in classification and denomination, the identity of the abdal are entirely unknown to the public and even to themselves. With the ability to transmit blessings (baraka) and perform miracles (karāmāt) the abdal as a whole are able to adequately fill the role of prophet. Similarly, it is believed that when judgement day comes, they will act as intermediaries (šafāʿa) between God and the human race.\n\nAs far as the number of the abdal is concerned, there are 300 servants of Allah in the creation whose hearts are like that of Adam. There are 40 whose hearts are similar to the heart of Musa and 7 whose hearts are similar to the heart of Ibrahim. There are 5 whose hearts are like that of Jibra’il and 3 whose hearts are like that of Mika’il and one whose heart is like the heart of Israfil. When he (whose heart is like Israfil) dies, then one of the three whose heart is like Mika’il replaces him and one of the five (whose hearts are like Jibra’il) replaces him. One of the seven replaces one of the five, one of the forty replaces one of the seven and one of the three-hundred replaces one of the forty and a normal Muslim replaces one of the three-hundred. It is due to these 356 awliya that creation are given life and killed, due to them rain falls, vegetation grows and difficulties are removed. It is also believed that since the number of abdal is so near to the number of days in the lunar calendar, their role as a part of the cosmic order of the universe is justified.\n\nIn Sufism, the Abdal are placed in a cosmic hierarchy with other orders of saintly individuals. Two descriptions of the hierarchy come from notable Sufis. One comes from the 12th Century persian Ali Hujwiri. In his divine court, there are three hundred \"akhyār\" (“excellent ones”), forty \"abdāl\" (“substitutes”), seven \"abrār\" (“piously devoted ones”), four \"awtād\" (“pillars”) three \"nuqabā\" (“leaders”) and one qutb.\n\nThe second version is from Ibn Arabī, who lived in Moorish Spain. It has a more exclusive structure. There are eight \"nujabā\" (“nobles”), twelve \"nuqabā\", seven \"abdāl\", four \"awtād\", two \"a’immah\" (“guides”), and the qutb.\n"}
{"id": "21108219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21108219", "title": "Africana womanism", "text": "Africana womanism\n\n\"Africana womanism\" is a term coined in the late 1980s by Clenora Hudson-Weems intended as an ideology applicable to all women of African descent. It is grounded in African culture and Afrocentrism and focuses on the experiences, struggles, needs, and desires of Africana women of the African diaspora. It distinguishes itself from feminism, or Alice Walker's womanism. Africana womanism pays more attention to and gives more focus on the realities and the injustices in society in regard to race. Africana Womanism is geared to be absolutely African-centered. Even in the naming, Africa is at the center and in African cosmology, \"nommo\" is the proper naming of a thing which calls it into existence. Clenora Hudson-Weems sought to create a ideology specific to African women and women of African descent.  Hudson-Weems believes that the creation of the ideology separates African women’s accomplishments from African male scholars, feminism, and black feminism.  In attempt to avoid being grouped in with other groups of people, Hudson-Weems decided it was time African women had their own ideology established by them.  Thus, the terminology Africana Womanism, more appropriately fits the Africana woman, who is both Self-Namer and Self-Definer (“I have to Know Who I Am”). Such realities include the diverse struggles and experiences, and needs of Africana women.\n\nThe Africana Womanism Society lists 18 characteristics of \"The Africana womanist\", including self-naming, self-defining, family-centered, flexible and desiring positive male companionship. The agenda for the Africana woman is, indeed, distinguishable from all other female based theories.  Primarily because of its insistence upon the prioritizing of race, class and, gender in that order. The sharp contrast between brands of feminism and Africana Womanism has to do with the fact that feminism focuses on females and their empowerment (“I Have to Know Who I Am”).  On the other hand, Africana womanism is a Family-Centered, race empowerment agenda. This ideology is based upon eighteen essential pillars: Self-Naming, Self-Definition, Family-Centeredness, In Concert With Men, Wholeness, Role Flexibility, Adaptability, Authenticity, Genuine Sisterhood, Male Compatibility, Recognition, Ambition, Nurturer, Strength, Respect, Respect for Elders, Mothering, Spirituality (“I am Because We Are: Africana Womanism as a Vehicle of Empowerment and Influence”).\n\nClenora Hudson-Weems, Professor of English, University of Missouri, author of \"Africana Womanism: Reclaiming Ourselves\", coined the concept Africana Womanism in the late 1980s (\"Africana\" is the feminine form of the Latin \"Africanus\", meaning \"Of Africa\", and appears to be preferred by the movement over \"African\"). Hudson-Weems argues that \"Africana Womanism is not an addendum to feminism, Black feminism, African feminism or Alice Walker's womanism\"  Feminism and gender issues are separate entities that are not reliant upon each other, and therefore, Africana women are able to address gender issues without partaking in feminist activity. According to Patricia Hill Collins, \"Although some Africana women may support the very ideas on which feminism rests, however, many of them reject the term \"feminism\" because of what they perceive as its association with white women's cause. They see feminism as operating exclusively within the terms white and American and perceive its opposite as being Black and American.\" Further many African men and women do not accept the ideology of feminism. According to Hudson-Weems, she states that \"there is a general consensus in the Africana community that the feminist movement, by and large, is the White woman's movement for two reason. First, the Africana woman does not see the man as her primary enemy as does the White feminist, who is carrying out an age-old battle with her White male counterpart for subjugating her as his property. Africana men have never had the same institutionalized power to oppress Africana women as White men have had to oppress White women.\"\n\nAfricana Womanism contrast a racist and sexist feminist/womanist ideology and many Africana women (and men) have come to embrace it. Hudson-Weems (1998), \"Africana Womanism: Reclaiming Ourselves\", explains the development of Africana Womanism:\nAfricana Womanism is a term I coined and defined in 1987 after nearly two years of publicly debating the importance of self-naming for Africana women. Why the term 'Africana Womanism'? Upon concluding that the term 'Black Womanism' was not quite the terminology to include the total meaning desired for this concept, I decided that 'Africana Womanism,' a natural evolution in naming, was the ideal terminology for two basic reasons. The first part of the coinage, \"Africana\", identifies the ethnicity of the woman being considered, and this reference to her ethnicity, establishing her cultural identity, relates directly to her ancestry and land base—Africa. The second part of the term \"Womanism\", recalls Sojourner Truth's powerful impromptu speech 'Ain't I a Woman?', one in which she battles with the dominant alienating forces in her life as a struggling Africana Woman, questioning the accepted idea of womanhood. Without question she is the flip side of the coin, the co-partner in the struggle for her people, one who, unlike the white woman, has received no special privileges in American society.\nAfricana womanist ideology contributes to Afrocentric discourse. Africana womanism fundamental foundation is built on traditional Africana philosophy and values, and Afrocentric theories: Some of the traditional values forefront the role of African mothers as leaders in the struggle to regain, reconstruct, and create a cultural integrity that espouses the ancient Maatic principles of reciprocity, balance, harmony, justice, truth, righteousness, order, and so forth.\n\nLastly, Nah Dove (1998), \"African Womanism: An Afrocentric Theory\", credits Hudson-Weems and other scholars in shaping the Africana womanist model. Dove asserts:\n\nA concept [Africana Womanism] that has been shaped by the work of women such as Clenora Hudson-Weems, Ifi Amadiume, Mary E. Modupe Kolawole, and others. African womanism may be viewed as fundamental to the continuing development of Afrocentric theory. Africana womanism brings to the forefront the role of African mothers as leaders in the struggle to regain, reconstruct, and create a cultural integrity that espouses the ancient Maatic principles of reciprocity, balance, harmony, justice, truth, righteousness, order, and so forth. (p. 535)\nThere are 18 key components that form Africana womanism. The characteristics are the following: Self-Naming, Self-Definition, Family-Centeredness, Wholeness, Role Flexibility, Adaptability, Authenticity, Black Female Sisterhood, Struggling with males against oppression, Male Compatibility, Recognition, Ambition, Nurturing, Strengthen, Respect, Respect for Elders, Mothering, Spirituality.\n\nEach of the characteristics listed above have a specific meanings that collectively establish a basis for Africana Womanism.  The first principle Self-Naming discusses the importance of self-identifying as an African woman in society. The Africana identification is distinguishable from feminism and black variants.  Self-naming is the period of recognizing the need for an Africana movement with its own name. The second principle defined, Self-Definition, begins to describe realities that African women face, through a Pan-African lens.  The Pan-African movement attempts to create a sense of brotherhood among all people of African descent, regardless of whether or not they live on the continent of Africa. Self-definition explores gender inequalities and stereotypes in the modern patriarchy. Self-naming and self-definition are the first two couple of characteristics of Africana womanism. The term \"nommo\" is given to the idea of self-naming, which is important because in order for one to exist it has to be given a correct name. There is an increasing need for self-naming, self-defining, and self-identity for Black people and self-defining helps to discover one's identity through their own point of view of their world that goes against that of the dominant culture.\n\nThe second groupings of characteristics are family-centeredness, wholeness, authenticity, role flexibility, adaptability, struggling with Black men against oppression, and Black female sisterhood. The second grouping of characteristics includes Family-Centeredness, Wholeness, Authenticity, Role Flexibility, Adaptability, In Concert With Men, and Genuine Sisterhood. The principle of family-centeredness focuses on the entire black family unit.  The interest in the success of the black community as a whole maintains a sense of wholeness. Any important outcomes are shared as overarching closeness of the Black community is enforced by the women in society. The commitment to immediate and extended family is of crucial importance to African women, as it shapes the third principle outlined by Clenora Hudson-Weems. The principle of Wholeness describes the importance of self-sufficiency that an African woman must have in order to upkeep her household.  Wholeness also stresses the required self-esteem that emanates from within an African woman who must be strong for not only herself, but for her family and community as a whole. Completeness, going hand in hand with Wholeness, is defined as the unbroken unity that an African woman is responsible for upholding inside the home and out. \n\nThe first five components all emphasis the commitment to family that is of major importance to Black women. There is a high interest in success of the group and collective outcomes that maintains a sense of wholeness. Nikol Alexander-Floyd (2006) states that there is this balance of putting the family first, which would be wholeness, without neglecting the career of the women or as he states it here authenticity. Role flexibility and adaptability are also important parts of family-centeredness because of their roots in the history of Black women. The Role Flexibility principle acknowledges and discusses the fact that the Black woman has never been a subjugate.  African women are active in the workforce, take part in leadership opportunities presented, and do not need to be domestic. In history, Black women have experienced flexible gender roles meaning that Black women not only had experience working outside of home along with men but all within the home. For adaptability, Black women not only adapted to different work environments but also to the lack of luxuries that were experienced by white women and feminists. Lastly, for struggling with Black men against oppression and Black female sisterhood, Africana womanist see that there is a fight against oppression that is being fought by Black men and see themselves fighting on the same team as Black men. Sisterhood in Africana womanism has to be genuine and is genuine through the fact that Black women go through the same experience of oppression and can therefore empathize with one another.. Due to these conditions Black women were forced to undergo while under white domination, African women developed an extreme ability to be adaptable.  Women were forced to sacrifice their own goods and desires for the sake of often times, their safety. Black women were often forced to compromise their dignity, as well as their ambition.  Lastly, there are In Concert With Men and Genuine Sisterhood. In concert with men is the African woman’s push to develop strong relationships with like minded men in the struggle for overarching Black liberation and the eventually Black women's liberation.  The concept of Genuine Sisterhood, which is one of the eighteen characteristics of Africana Womanism, is integral for the survival of women in a male-dominated society.  As described by Nobel Prize-winning author Toni Morrison, “In wielding the power that is deservedly yours, don’t permit it to enslave your sisters”. Morrison’s insights refer to the frequency that women tear each other down, as she continues to describe that this behavior is especially common in the workplace.  The foundation of female relationships is violated by the habitual behavior in that women treat each other with disrespect and cruelty. Sisterhood in Africana womanism has to be genuine and is genuine through the fact that Black women go through the same experience of oppression and can therefore empathize with one another.\n\nThe third and last clustering of characteristics are strength, male compatibility, respect, recognition, respect for elders, ambition, mothering, nurturing, and spirituality. Historically, Black women were always had psychological and physical strengthen especially with what happened with slavery. Hudson-Weems says that Black men's and Black women's bond helps to maintain the race. Black woman are physically and mentally strong.  This principle of Strength is often the one that is attacked by non-Africana oppressors because their goal is to force submission upon the powerful group that is Africana women.  Hudson-Weems says that Black men's and Black women's bond helps to maintain the race. Therefore, the principle of male compatibility is based upon mutually beneficial relationships between a well-respected African woman and a supportive, like-minded, man. Respect and recognition go together that is necessary for a healthy respect for Africana womanists and it helps them relate to others. Respect and recognition also contributes to the self-love and admiration, and respect for elders or older members in the Black community. To dissect both principles a bit further, Respect refers to reverence an African woman has for herself, absent of the colonized standards.  Determining one’s worth, while ignoring politics, is a crucial to becoming a confident African woman. The pillar of Recognition refers to the acknowledgement of humanity, capability, and power of Black women.  Recognition plays a large role in keeping communal peace and ensuring the Black women’s effectiveness in the struggle for equality. \n\nThe principles that outline the caring nature of the Africana womanist are defined below.  Respect for Elders, is an extension of the historical African tradition of ancestral reverence.  Ancestral reverence is the habitual act of caring for elders, and eventual ancestors, within a community or society.  Once the elders become ancestors, they will be responsible for providing wisdom and guidance which is highly vauled. The Nurturer and Motherer are both described a call for all community members to play an active role in the rearing of the community and propaganda of the race through care.  It is an African woman’s duty to not only care and nourish her family, but to provide the care and nourishment for her race as a whole. By fostering and guiding fellow women, the Africana Movement is advanced. The initiative taken to further the public’s appreciation and education about the Africana Movement exemplifies the principle of Ambition.\n\nThe final principle is Spirituality, which stresses the importance of the reverence for traditional African spiritual systems.  These spiritual systems call for a collection of the principles including Ancestral Reverence, Oneness with oneself, and with nature as well. Africana womanist are also very spiritual and believe in a higher power and their mothering and nurturing is tradition.\n\nHudson-Weems (2000) states that the rejection of white organizations is something that Africana women take part in. Africana women focus on things that help with the elimination of oppression, which is considered to be the most important thing in order for the Africana community to survive. Alongside the rejection of white organizations, Africana womanism puts priority on human dignity of Africana women, children, and men. It focuses on race as the main importance for Africana women. Racism is seen to be priority over sexism and sexism is seen to derive from racism, classism, and economic prejudices.\n\nSome problems of Africana women, according to Hudson-Weems, include \"physical brutality, sexual harassment, and female subjugation in general perpetrated both within and outside the race\" and has to be solved in Africana communities collectively.\n\nWhile many think of Africana womanism as being similar to that of Black feminism, African feminism, womanism, and feminism, there are clear distinctions in agenda for the forms of women empowerment.\n\nThe Africana Womanist concept was best exemplified in Brenda Verner's (1994) article \"The Power and Glory of Africana Womanism\":\nAfricana Womanism in essence says: We love men. We like being women. We love children. We like being mothers. We value life. We have faith in God and the Bible. We want families and harmonious relationships. We are not at war with our men seeking money, power and influence through confrontation. Our history is unique. We are the inheritors of African-American women's history, and as such we shall not redefine ourselves nor that history to meet some politically correct image of a popular culture movement, which demands the right to speak for and redefine the morals and mores of all racial, cultural and ethnic groups. Nor shall we allow the history to be \"shanghied\" to legitimatize the \"global political agenda\" of others. We reject the status of victim. Indeed, we are victors, Sisters in Charge of our own destiny. We are Africana culture-keepers: Our primary obligation is to the progress of our cultural way of life through the stability of family and the commitment to community. The practice of cultural womanism is not limited to Africana women. Italian, Japanese, Hispanic, East Indian, Arab, Jewish women, etc., all utilize this approach to decision-making, and know the value of maintaining indigenous cultural autonomy. The rite of passing generation-to-generation knowledge free from outside manipulation, coercion or intimidation insures traditional integrity, which fosters a climate of cultural security. Traditional cultures should not be obligated to bow to redefinitions foisted upon them by elitist entities that gain their authority via the drive of well-organized \"media hype.\"\nAfricana men can embrace an Africana womanist approach. According to Tolagbe Ogunlege (1998), \"Referring to a man as a male-womanist is not an anomaly or rarity, and bestowing gender-specific title on individuals of the opposite sex has been practiced by Africana peoples for millennia. For example, among the Yoruba, an exceptional woman who has made significant contributions to the educational, socioeconomic, and/or spiritual growth and development of her family and community is referred to as a man-woman or obinrin bi okunrin.\" Ogunlege further explains that among the Lebou people of Senegal, a man who governs according to ancient customs is referred to as the \"Mother of the Country\".\n\nThe Africana Womanist concept was adopted by many faculty in higher education. According to Daphne W. Ntiri (2001), Associate Professor of Social Science, Wayne State University, \"Since Clenora Hudson-Weems broke new ground with her 1993 book \"Africana Womanism: Reclaiming Ourselves\", discourse on the place and agenda of Africana women in the women's movement reflects the text's influence. In only six years, this work is in the second printing of its third revised edition. It has been adopted by faculty in several higher education institutions in as far away places as Africa, Brazil, Japan, and the Caribbean Islands. Adoption at national universities includes Clark Atlanta University, California State University-Long Beach, Florida A&M, Indiana State University, Northern Illinois University, San Francisco State University, Temple University, the University of Missouri, and the University of Utah to name a few\" (p. 163).\n\nDrawing on the tenets of Africana Womanism, Clenora Hudson-Weems extends the theoretical framework to literary analysis. Such an anlysis of Africana literature emphasizes the family, complimentarity between men and women, and commitment to the survival and liberation of the community as a whole. In her text, Africana Womanist Literary Theory, Hudson-Weems explores select Africana novels in order to offer Africana womanist interpretations. Five Africana Womanist novels: Zora Neale Hurston, \"Their Eyes Were Watching God\". Hudson-Weems states that the character Janie is a protagonists to name and define herself. Also, a protagonist of family-centeredness (pp. 81–82); Mariama Ba, a renowned Senegalese writer, \"So Long a Letter\", Ba's attack on polygamous society that subjugates women, and her interests in the rights of Africana women are reflected in her novel. According to Hudson-Weems \"the novel does not justify categorizing it as a feminist novel, which the author dedicates the book 'To all women and men of good will,' thereby demonstrating her natural inclination to include men as a very important part of women's lives\" (Hudson-Weems, pp. 93–94); Paule Marshall, a prominent African-Caribbean writer, \"Praisesong for the Widow\", which the character \"Reena\" bears the historical nuances of so-called shortcomings of the Africana woman in relationship with her male companion. Pauline, the narrator, advocates a solution to the deteriorating relationship between the Africana man and woman (Hudson-Weems, p. 105); Toni Morrison, \"Beloved\". Hudson-Weems asserts that \"From Morrison first novel, \"The Bluest Eye\", to \"Sula\", \"Song of Solomon\", \"Tar Baby\", and finally to her fifth novel, \"Beloved\", the author develops the roles of the male and the female in this collective struggle\" (p. 119); and Terry McMillan, \"Disappearing Acts\". Hudson-Weems explains that the character Zora Banks is self-naming and self-defining, family-centered and compatible, flexible with her roles and ambitions, demanding of respect and strong, reverent of elders and authentic, and last but not least, nurturing and mothering (pp. 133–134).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48759821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48759821", "title": "Afro-Surrealism", "text": "Afro-Surrealism\n\nAfro-Surrealism or Afrosurrealism is a literary and cultural aesthetic that is a response to mainstream surrealism in order to reflect the lived experience of people of color. First coined by Amiri Baraka in 1974, this movement focuses on the present day experience of African Americans. Afro-Surrealism is based on the manifesto written by D. Scot Miller, in which he says, \"Afro-Surrealism sees that all 'others' who create from their actual, lived experience are surrealist...\" The manifesto delineates Afro-Surrealism from Surrealism and Afro-Futurism. The manifesto also declares the necessity of Afro-Surrealism, especially in San Francisco, California. The manifesto lists ten tenants that Afro-Surrealism follows including how \"Afro-Surrealists restore the cult of the past,\" and how \"Afro-Surreal presupposes that beyond this visible world, there is an invisible world striving to manifest, and it is our job to uncover it.\"\n\nAfro-Surrealism can be seen in music, photography, film, the visual arts and poetry. Notable practitioners of Afro-Surrealism include Ted Joans, Bob Kaufman, Krista Franklin, Kool Keith, Terrence Nance, Will Alexander, India Sky Davis, Kara Walker, Samuel R. Delany, Starr Finch, Romare Bearden and Christopher Burch.\n\nThe AfroSurreal arts movement came about after D. Scot Miller penned The Afrosurreal Manifesto for The San Francisco Bay Guardian in May, 2009. Until that time, the term \"Afrosurreal Expressionism\" was used solely to describe the writings of Henry Dumas by Amiri Baraka. Later that year, Miller spoke with Baraka about extending the term by shortening the description. It was agreed by the two of them that \"Afrosurreal\" without the \"expressionism\" would allow further exploration of the term. . Afrosurrealism may have some similar origins to surrealism in the mid-1920s, in that an aspect of it [Negritude] came after André Breton wrote the Surrealist Manifesto, but as Leopold Senghor points out in Miller's manifesto, “European Surrealism is empirical. African Surrealism is mystical and metaphorical.”.\n\nAfro-Surrealism incorporates aspects of the Harlem Renaissance, Négritude and Black Radical Imagination as described by Professor Robin DG Kelley in his definitive work Freedom Dreams: The Black Radical Imagination (2003), and further with his definitive Afrosurreal historical anthology, Black, Brown, & Beige:\nSurrealist Writings from Africa and the Diaspora (2009). Aspects of Afro-Surrealism can be traced to Martiniquan Suzanne Césaire’s discussion of the “revolutionary impetus of surrealism” in the 1940s.\n\nThough much has been written and said about artist/activist/statesmen Aimé Césaire, much more needs to written about his partner Suzanne, a brilliant surrealist thinker, and mother of the Afrosurreal aesthetic. Her quest for “The Marvelous” over the “miserablism” expressed in the usual arts of protest inspired the Tropiques surrealist group, and especially René Ménil.\n\n“The true task of mankind consists solely in the attempt to bring the marvelous into real life,” Ménil says in “Introduction to the Marvelous,”[1930s] “so that life can become more encompassing. So long as the mythic imagination is not able to overcome each and every boring mediocrity, human life will amount to nothing but useless, dull experiences, just killing time, as they say.”\n\nSuzanne Césaire’s proclamation, “Be in permanent readiness for The Marvelous,” quickly became a credo of the movement; the word “marvelous” has since become re-contextualized with regard to contemporary black arts and interventions.\n\nIn his 1956 essay for \"Présence Africaine\" Haitian novelist Jacques Stephen Alexis wrote,\" \"What, then, is the Marvellous, except the imagery in which a people wraps its experience, reflects its conception of the world and of life, its faith, its hope, its confidence in man, in a great justice, and the explanation which it finds for the forces antagonistic to progress?\"\" In his work, Alexis is seen to have an acute sense of reality that is not dissimilar to traditional surrealism, and his coining of the term \"Marvelous Realism\" reflects how he was influenced by the earlier works of the Negritude/Black Surrealist Movement.\n\nAfro-Surrealism was coined by Amiri Baraka in his 1974 essay on Black Arts Movement avant-garde writer Henry Dumas. Baraka notes that Dumas is able to write about ancient mysteries that were simultaneously relevant to the present day. This idea that the past resurfaces to haunt the present day is a crucial to Afro-Surrealism.\n\nCinematographer Arthur Jafa expanded the field of Afro-Surrealism by experimenting with film. Jafa introduces the idea of \"the alien familiar,\" in order to represent the Black experience and its innate surreal characteristics. \"I want it to have something that I and my friends call 'the alien familiar.' If a work succeeds in a way or is able to conjure what a Black cinema would be or what this hypothetical manifestation of this particular tradition in the cinematic arena might be, it should be both alien because you’ve never seen anything quite like it, and at the same time, it should be familiar on some level to Black audiences.\" This focus on the alien aspect of the Black experience, and on Black folk culture, are what separate Afro-Surrealism from magical realism and surrealism.\n\n Unlike Afro-Futurism which speculates on black possibilities in the future, Afrosurrealism, as Miller describes, is about the present. Rather than speculate on the coming of the four horseman, Afrosurrealists understand that they rode through too long ago. Through Afrosurrealism, artists expose this form of the future past that is \"RIGHT NOW.\" Most Afrosurrealists reject the study of the future pushing themselves to focus on the present, the future that has already past.\n\nMuch of Afro-Surrealism is concerned with the everyday life because it is said that there is nothing more surreal than the Black experience. According to Terri Francis, \"Afrosurrealism is art with skin on it where the texture of the object tells its story, how it weathered burial below consciousness, and how it emerged somewhat mysteriously from oceans of forgotten memories and discarded keepsakes. This photograph figures Afrosurrealism as bluesy, kinky-spooky.\"\n\nIn the manifesto from which present day Afrosurrealism is based, writer D. Scot Miller states in a response to Afrofuturism:\n\n\"Afro-Futurism is a diaspora intellectual and artistic movement that turns to science, technology, and science fiction to speculate on black possibilities in the future. Afro-Surrealism is about the present. There is no need for tomorrow’s-tongue speculation about the future. Concentration camps, bombed-out cities, famines, and enforced sterilization have already happened. To the Afro-Surrealist, the Tasers are here. The Four Horsemen rode through too long ago to recall. What is the future? The future has been around so long it is now the past.\"\n\nAs The AfroSurreal Manifesto and Afrofuturism come to the fore in artistic, commercial and academic circles, the struggle between the specific and “the scent” of present-day manifestations of Black absurdity has come with it, posing interesting challenges to both movements. For Afrofuturists, this challenge has been met by inserting Afrocentric elements into its growing pantheon, the intention being to centralize Afrofuturist focus back on the continent of Africa to enhance its specificity. For the Afrosurrealists, the focus has been set at the “here and now” of contemporary Black arts and situations in the Americas, Antilles, and beyond, searching for the nuanced “scent” of those current manifestations.\n\nAfro-Surrealist scholar Rochelle Spencer identifies at least three different subgenres of black speculative art, and Spencer argues that Afro-Surrealism is the most present-focus, though it is not devoid of technology and may include allusions to modern technology. According to Francis, the juxtaposition between the old and the present day is what makes Afro-Surrealism so unique. As Francis puts it, \"Surrealism here, the Afro-surreal, like the marvelous discussed above, is actually a realism so real, so contrary to the norms of publicized blackness, that it represents a rupture, a radical break from ordinary understanding such that the old feels new—because it was never known.\n\nIn \"Zong!\", M. NourbSe Philip crafts a powerful counter-narrative surrounding the events of the \"Zong\" massacre. Utilizing the words from the legal decision to build her poetry, Philip rejects the idea of an archival past. Instead Philip looks to the present moment to understand how to read this legal decision and understand the case. Following the footsteps of Toni Morrison’s \"Beloved\", Philip presupposes the notion of a past that is not past allowing these past artifacts to haunt the present moment. Rather than organize the fragments, Philip allows the fragments to tell themselves. This is not to say that Philip gives the fragments voices, but instead gives them space. The space in the poem allows Philip’s audience to hear the silence of these voices, to truly understand the missing narratives form the past and the role that has on the present.\n\nAs mentioned earlier, Toni Morrison’s \"Beloved\" remains an important milestone for Afrosurrealists. Here, Morrison imagines a narrative of a slave women grieving the death of her baby daughter, Beloved. With no trace of a past, Beloved reappears of on the steps of 124, confused and looking for her mother. Following this moment, the novel crafts a haunting tale of a woman seeking to understand the sudden reappearance of her daughter and the scars left behind from slavery. In \"Beloved,\" Morrison attempts to come to grip with the legacies left by slavery, challenging the notion that these legacies exits only from the past. From the epigraph, “\"Sixty Million and more\",” Morrison presupposes there is no way to count those affected from slavery and additionally, that the number is ever-growing into the present. In her award-winning novel, Morrison expands the idea of the past, attempting to demonstrate the past is ever present and moreover, that the past is RIGHT NOW.\n"}
{"id": "59144735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59144735", "title": "Apache Helix", "text": "Apache Helix\n\nApache Helix is an open source software application developed by LinkedIn Corporation.\n\nHelix is one of several notable open source softwares developed by LinkedIn Corporation, now acquired by Microsoft.\n\nHelix is a stable cluster management software used for the automatic management of partitioned, replicated and distributed resources hosted on a cluster of systems.\n\nHelix is one of several notable web application developed by LinkedIn apart from Samza, Apache Kafka and Voldemort. The origins of Helix lie in a distributed NoSQL called Espresso.\n\nThe following is a list of notable enterprises that have used or are using Helix:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37663509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37663509", "title": "ArduPilot", "text": "ArduPilot\n\nArduPilot is an open source, unmanned vehicle Autopilot Software Suite, capable of controlling autonomous:\nArduPilot was originally developed by hobbyists to control model aircraft and rovers and has evolved into a full-featured and reliable autopilot used by industry, research organisations and amateurs. The project started in 2007 and visible after Chris Anderson published a video of lego based UAV running Ardupilot on youtube.\n\nThe ArduPilot software suite consists of navigation software (typically referred to as firmware when it is compiled to binary form for microcontroller hardware targets) running on the vehicle (either Copter, Plane, Rover, AntennaTracker, or Sub), along with ground station controlling software including Mission Planner, APM Planner, QGroundControl, MavProxy, Tower and others.\n\nArduPilot source code is stored and managed on GitHub, with almost 400 total contributors.\n\nThe software suite is automatically built nightly, with continuous integration and unit testing provided by Travis CI, and a build and compiling environment including the GNU cross-platform compiler and Waf. Pre-compiled binaries running on various hardware platforms are available for user download from ArduPilot's sub-websites.\n\nCopter, Plane, Rover, AntennaTracker or Sub software runs on a wide variety of embedded hardware (including full blown Linux computers), typically consisting of one or more microcontroller or microprocessor connected to peripheral sensors used for navigation. These sensors include MEMS gyroscopes and accelerometers at a minimum, necessary for multirotor flight and plane stabilization. Sensors usually include, in addition, one or more compass, altimeter (barometric) and GPS, along with optional additional sensors such as optical flow sensors, airspeed indicators, laser or sonar altimeters or rangefinders, monocular, stereoscopic or RGB-D cameras. Sensors may be on the same electronic board, or external.\n\nGround Station software, used for programming or monitoring vehicle operation, is available for Windows, Linux, macOS, iOS, and Android.\n\nArduPilot runs on a wide variety of hardware platforms, including the following, listed in alphabetical order: \nIn addition to the above base navigation platforms, ArduPilot supports integration and communication with on-vehicle companion, or auxiliary computers for advanced navigation requiring more powerful processing. These include NVidia TX1 and TX2 ( NVidia Jetson architecture), Intel Edison and Intel Joule, HardKernel Odroid, and Raspberry PI computers.\n\nArduPilot provides a large set of features, including the following common for all vehicles:\n\n\n\n\nArduPilot is fully documented within its wiki, totaling the equivalent of about 700 printed pages and divided in six top sections: The Copter, Plane, Rover, and Submarine vehicle related subsections are aimed at users. A developer subsection for advanced uses is aimed primarily at software and hardware engineers, and a Common section regrouping information common to all vehicle types is shared within the first four sections.\n\n\n\nThe ArduPilot project earliest roots date back to late 2007 when Jordi Munoz, who later co-founded 3DRobotics with Chris Anderson, wrote an Arduino program (which he called \"ArduCopter\") to stabilize an RC Helicopter. In 2009 Munoz and Anderson released Ardupilot 1.0 (flight controller software) along with a hardware board it could run on. That same year Munoz, who had built a traditional RC helicopter UAV able to fly autonomously, won the first Sparkfun AVC competition. The project grew further thanks to many members of the DIY Drones community, including Chris Anderson who championed the project and had founded the forum based community earlier in 2007.\n\nThe first ArduPilot version supported only fixed-wing aircraft and was based on a thermopile sensor, which relies on determining the location of the horizon relative to the aircraft by measuring the difference in temperature between the sky and the ground. Later, the system was improved to replace thermopiles with an Inertial Measurement Unit (IMU) using a combination of accelerometers, gyroscopes and magnetometers. Vehicle support was later expanded to other vehicle types which led to the Copter, Plane, Rover, and Submarine subprojects.\n\nThe years 2011 and 2012 witnessed an explosive growth in the autopilot functionality and codebase size, thanks in large part to new participation from Andrew \"Tridge\" Tridgell and HAL author Pat Hickey. Tridge's contributions included automatic testing and simulation capabilities for Ardupilot, along with PyMavlink and Mavproxy. Hickey was instrumental in bringing the AP_ HAL library to the code base: HAL (Hardware Abstraction Layer) greatly simplified and modularized the code base by introducing and confining low-level hardware implementation specifics to a separate hardware library. The year 2012 also saw Randy Mackay taking the role of lead maintainer of Copter, after a request from former maintainer Jason Short, and Tridge taking over the role of lead Plane maintainer, after Doug Weibel who went on to earn a Ph.D. in Aerospace Engineering. Both Randy and Tridge are current lead maintainers to date.\n\nThe free software approach to ArduPilot code development is similar to that of the Linux Operating system and the GNU Project, and the PX4/Pixhawk and Paparazzi Project, where low cost and availability enabled hobbyists to build autonomous small remotely piloted aircraft, such as micro air vehicles and miniature UAVs. The drone industry, similarly, progressively leveraged ArduPilot code to build professional, high-end autonomous vehicles.\n\nWhile early versions of ArduPilot used the APM flight controller, an AVR CPU running the Arduino open-source programming language (which explains the \"Ardu\" part of the project name), later years witnessed a significant re-write of the code base in C++ with many supporting utilities written in Python.\n\nBetween 2013 and 2014 ArduPilot evolved to run on a range of hardware platforms and operating system beyond the original Arduino Atmel based microcontroller architecture, first with the commercial introduction of the Pixhawk hardware flight controller, a collaborative effort between PX4, 3DRobotics and the ArduPilot development team, and later to the Parrot's Bebop2 and the Linux-based flight controllers like Raspberry Pi based NAVIO2 and BeagleBone based ErleBrain. A key event within this time period included the first flight of a plane under Linux in mid 2014.\n\nLate 2014 saw the formation of DroneCode, formed to bring together the leading open source UAV software projects, and most notably to solidify the relationship and collaboration of the ArduPilot and the PX4 projects. ArduPilot's involvement with DroneCode ended in September 2016. 2015 was also a banner year for 3DRobotics, a heavy sponsor of ArduPilot development, with its introduction of the Solo quadcopter, an off the shelf quadcopter running ArduPilot. Solo's commercial success, however, was not to be.\n\nFall of 2015 again saw a key event in the history of the autopilot, with a swarm of 50 planes running ArduPilot simultaneously flown at the Advanced Robotic Systems Engineering Laboratory (ARSENL) team at the Naval Postgraduate School.\n\nWithin this time period, ArduPilot's code base was significantly refactored, to the point where it ceased to bear any similarity to its early Arduino years.\n\nArduPilot code evolution continues with support for integrating and communicating with powerful companion computers for autonomous navigation, plane support for additional VTOL architectures, integration with ROS, support for gliders, and tighter integration for submarines. The project evolves under the umbrella of ArduPilot.org, a project within the Software in the Public Interest (spi-inc.org) not-for-profit organisation. ArduPilot is sponsored in part by a growing list of corporate partners.\n\nIn 2012, the Canberra UAV Team successfully took first place in the prestigious UAV Outback Challenge. The CanberraUAV Team included ArduPlane Developers and the airplane flown was controlled by an APM 2 Autopilot. In 2014 the CanberraUAV Team and ArduPilot took first place again, by successfully delivering a bottle to the \"lost\" hiker. In 2016 ArduPilot placed first in the technically more challenging competition, ahead of strong competition from international teams.\n\nArduPilot is jointly managed by a group of volunteers located around the world, using the Internet (discourse based forum, gitter channel) to communicate, plan, develop and support it. The development team meets weekly in a chat meeting, open to all, using Mumble. In addition, hundreds of users contribute ideas, code and documentation to the project. ArduPilot is licensed under the GPL Version 3 and is free to download and use.\n\nThe flexibility of ArduPilot makes it very popular in the DIY field but it has also gained popularity with professional users and companies. 3DRobotics' Solo quadcopter, for instance, uses ArduPilot, as have a large number of professional aerospace companies such as Boeing . The flexibility allows for support of a wide variety of frame types and sizes, different sensors, camera gimbals and RC transmitters depending on the operator's preferences.\n\nArduPilot has been successfully integrated into many airplanes such as the Bixler 2.0. The customizability and ease of installation have allowed the ArduPilot platform to be integrated for a variety of missions. The Mission Planner (Windows) ground control station allows the user to easily configure, program, use, or simulate an ArduPilot board for purposes such as mapping, search and rescue, and surveying areas.\n\n"}
{"id": "49632546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49632546", "title": "Benoît Lacroix", "text": "Benoît Lacroix\n\nBenoît Lacroix (; 8 September 1915 – 2 March 2016) was a Quebec theologian, philosopher, Dominican priest, professor in medieval studies and historian of the Medieval period, and author of almost 50 works and a great number of articles.\n\nHe was born Joachim Lacroix in Saint-Michel-de-Bellechasse, Quebec, one of five children to Caïus Lacroix and Rose-Anna Blais. He studied at Collège de Sainte-Anne-de-la-Pocatière obtaining a baccalaureate in the arts in 1936. The same year, he entered the Dominican school in Saint-Hyacinthe to study religion. He was ordained a priest with the Dominican Order on 5 July 1941, obtaining a degree in theology from the Dominican College in Ottawa in 1941. According to Pietro Boglioni, a historian who wrote a comprehensive biography of Lacroix, he was named Benoît after becoming a Dominican priest, in memory of Pope Benedict XI (in French, Benoît XI), a Dominican pope from the Middle Ages. After entering the Dominican Order, Father Benoît Lacroix wanted to travel in a mission to Europe to specialize in liturgical studies. But World War II halted his ambitions and instead he studied for a Ph.D. in Mediaeval Sciences from the Pontifical Institute of Mediaeval Studies in Toronto in 1951, under the guidance of philosopher, historian professor Étienne Gilson, who encouraged him to study Historiography. His thesis was titled \"Les Débuts de l'historiographie chrétienne\" (The Beginnings of Christian Historiography\") followed by \"L'Histoire dans l'antiquité\" (History in Antiquity) in 1951 with a preface by historian philosopher and Early Christianity expert professor Henri-Irénée Marrou. He completed his post-doctoral studies at École pratique des hautes études, and at École Nationale des Chartes both in Paris in 1952-1953 and at Harvard University in Cambridge, Massachusetts in 1959-1960, with a bursary from the Guggenheim Fellowship.\n\nBetween 1945 and 1985, he lectured at various periods at the Institute of Medieval Studies at Université de Montréal, and was appointed director of the Institute between 1963 and 1969. He was also an invited professor and lecturer at universities in Kyoto University in Japan in 1961, the National University of Rwanda in Butare, Rwanda in 1965–1966 and at the Chair of Quebec Civilisation at University of Caen Normandy, in Caen France (1973–1976).\n\nAccording to historian Guy Laperrière, Benoît Lacroix's initial literary beginning were his writings about literature, art and history particularly in \"La Revue Dominicaine\". Starting in 1962, he was collaborating with Father Henri-Marie Bradet, the founder of the publication who also founded \"Maintenant\", another important intellectual publication. Lacroix succeeded Bradet at \"La Revue Dominicaine\" in 1985 after Bradet was stripped of his duties as editor in chief during the turbulent times of the Quiet Revolution (Révolution tranquille in French) on what became known as the \"Bradet Affair\" which was interpreted as a \"freedom of expression\" issue and his departure a result of a scheme to silence him by the Quebec provincial superior of the Dominican Order Father Thomas-M. Rondeau after having received stern warnings about Bradet from his Dominican superiors in Rome. Lacroix shaken by the affair wrote the preface to a biographical book by Denyse Boucher St-Pierre in 1973 in memory of Father Bradet.\n\nIn 1968, Lacroix founded the \"Centre d'études des religions populaires\" (Centre of Studies of Popular Religions). Between 1968 and 1971, the Centre published 12 papers, \"Cahiers d'études des religions populaires\" and organized between 1970 and 1982, 11 academic conferences about popular religion in French-speaking Catholics in Quebec, Ontario and Acadie.\n\nIn collaboration with Jacques Brault, Lacroix published a critical edition on the works of the Quebec poet and writer Hector de Saint-Denys Garneau under the title \"Œuvres de Saint-Denys Garneau\" in 1971.\n\nFrom 1973 to 1976, Lacroix was director of chair of Quebec Studies at University of Caen Normandy in France, greatly encouraging the cultural and academic exchange between France and Quebec, particularly in education. Hundreds of professors and students benefited from the exchanges. After leaving the chair, the position was taken by sociologist Jean-Charles Falardeau.\n\nIn the mid-1980s, he left the academic life at the university, to work more freely as author, presenter, communicator and thinker, gaining wide fame in religious and intellectual circles in Quebec according to professor and historian Pietro Boglioni.\n\nIn 1979 he was a founding member of \"Institut québécois de recherche\" (IQRC, Quebec Research Institute). headed by sociologist Fernand Dumont under the ministerial jurisdiction of Camille Laurin, Minister of State for Cultural and Scientific Development in Quebec at the time, from 1980 to 1986, was a member of the Science Committee of the Institute, heading notably in 1980 the IQRC sub-group specializing in popular religions that was made of Lacroix, Lucille Côté, Hélène Dionne, Michèle Trudel-Drouin, Danielle Nepveu and Louise Rondeau, including organizing of an international academic conference in 1982 on studies of popular religions in close collaboration with Jean-Paul Montminy, another father from the Dominican Order, assisted by Fernand Dumont, Pierre Savard et Jean Simard. With Simard, Benoît Lacroix published \"Religion populaire, religion de clercs?\" (Popular religion, the religion of the clergy?) in 1984 followed by another co-authorship with Madeleine Grammond in 1985 titled \"Religion populaire au Québec. Typologie des sources: Bibliographie sélective (1900-1980)\". A Spanish translation of his work was published by Universidad Católica Santa María La Antigua in Panama City under the title \"Tipologia en la religiosidad popular en Canada\".\n\nHe also published popular works like \"La religion de mon père\" (The Religion of My Father) in 1986 and \"La foi de ma mère\" (The Faith of My Mother) in 2001. He also took part in a number of radio and television shows about the popular religion.\n\nBetween 1987 and 2010, Benoît Lacroix wrote and published a number of essays with a spiritual and poetic tendency in Montreal French-language daily \"Le Devoir\". In 2012, Quebec journalist Josée Blanchette published a long documentary about Father Benoît Lacroix and the Convent of Saint-Albert-le-Grand of the Dominicans, on chemin de la Côte-Sainte-Catherine à Montréal, under the title \"Bonté divine: 24 heures au couvent des dominicains\".\n\nHe was a friend and greatly respected by academicians as well as intellectuals and personalities from all walks of life including professor Étienne Gilson, French philosopher Jacques Maritain, Canadian Prime Minister Pierre Elliott Trudeau, Mgr. Félix-Antoine Savard, Father Georges-Henri Lévesque, Abbé Pierre, sociologist, philosopher, theologian and poet Fernand Dumont and poet and singer-songwriter Gilles Vigneault and writers Robert Élie, Jean Le Moyne and Jacques Brault.\n\nIn 2012, Lacroix celebrated 75 years of priesthood and religious life. Lacroix became a centenarian, in September 2015, and died of pneumonia on 2 March 2016.\n\nIn 1971, he became a member of the Royal Society of Canada and a member of the French Académie des Sciences Morales et Politiques.\n\nIn 1981, he was awarded the prestigious Prix Léon-Gérin, an award established by the Government of Quebec as part of the Prix du Québec, which \"goes to researchers in one of the social sciences\". The prize committee sited his works as a theologian, a specialist in popular religions, writer, literary historian and Dominican father, quoting sociologist, theologian, priest and writer Jacques Grand'Maison that Lacoix was one of the best witnesses of Quebec's history from medieval times and as a historian, in the intellectual tradition that fascilated western thinking. His works also permitted a better understanding of Quebec history in new eyes, adding that since the 1950s and the very first of his publications with \"Pourquoi aimer le Moyen Âge\" (Why Love the Middle Ages), he showed his expertise in medieval studies and in popular religions.\n\nIn 1982, he became a member of Société des Dix, a group of Quebec historians and in 1985, became an Officer of Order of Canada (O.C.). In 1097, he received the Pierre Chauveau Medal awarded by the Royal Society of Canada \"for a distinguished contribution to knowledge in the humanities other than Canadian literature and Canadian history\" and in 1990, received an honorary Doctorat honoris causa from Université de Sherbrooke. He became a Knight of National Order of Quebec and 5 years later Grand Officer of the same Quebec order.\n\nThe public library in Saint-Michel-de-Bellechasse, the hometown of Benoît Lacroix was renamed \"Bibliothèque Benoît-Lacroix\" in his honour.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55860832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55860832", "title": "Charlotte Blease", "text": "Charlotte Blease\n\nCharlotte Blease is a Northern Irish science philosopher and cognitive scientist from Belfast, Northern Ireland. She is an Irish Research Council fellow and a University College Dublin lecturer.\n\nBlease studied philosophy and the philosophy of science at Queen's University, Belfast. Afterwards she attended Harvard University in the United States. Following this, Blease wrote a number of published academic papers on the issue of psychology and philosophy of science utilizing different schools of thought combined. She then started teaching at University College Dublin in the Republic of Ireland, specialising in research into placebos as a research fellow after a grant from the Irish Research Council. Blease also held the position of postdoctoral research fellow at the English University of Leeds and worked as a placebo research affiliate at Harvard Medical School.\n\nBlease has been an advocate for the teaching of philosophy in schools and wrote in the British newspaper \"The Guardian\" supporting this.\n"}
{"id": "10777001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10777001", "title": "Conservation Biology (journal)", "text": "Conservation Biology (journal)\n\nConservation Biology is a bimonthly peer-reviewed scientific journal of the Society for Conservation Biology, published by Wiley-Blackwell and established in May 1987. It covers the science and practice of conserving Earth's biological diversity, including issues concerning any of the Earth's ecosystems or regions. The editor-in-chief is Mark Burgman.\n\nThe scientific papers in the journal cover a variety of topics, such as population ecology and genetics, climate change, freshwater and marine conservation, ecosystem management, citizen science, and other human dimensions of conservation, but all topics focus primarily on conservation relevance rather than specific ecosystems, species, or situations. Subscription to the journal is only open to members of Society for Conservation Biology.\n\nAccording to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2016 impact factor of 4.842. It ranks 5th among 53 in journals that focus on biodiversity and conservation, 19th among 153 in journals with an ecological focus, and 23rd among 229 in journals with an environmental science focus. Conservation Biology also has an h5 index of 51, a cited half-life of >10, and a CiteScore of 5.04.\n\n"}
{"id": "49870344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49870344", "title": "Creative computing", "text": "Creative computing\n\nCreative computing covers the interdisciplinary area at the cross-over of the creative arts and computing. Issues of creativity include knowledge discovery, for example. \n\nThe \"International Journal of Creative Computing\" describes creative computing as follows:\n\nCreative computing is interdisciplinary in nature and topics relating to it include applications, development method, evaluation, modeling, philosophy, principles, support environment, and theory.\n\nThe term \"creative computing\" is used both in the United Kingdom and the United States (e.g., at Harvard University and MIT).\n\nA number of university degree programmes in Creative Computing exist, for example at:\n\n\nThe \"International Journal of Creative Computing\" is a quarterly peer-reviewed scientific journal published by Inderscience Publishers, covering creativity in computing and the other way around. The editor-in-chief is Hongji Yang (Bath Spa University).\n\nThe journal was established in 2013 and is abstracted and indexed in CSA, ProQuest, and DBLP databases.\n\n"}
{"id": "25893580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25893580", "title": "Donald Broom", "text": "Donald Broom\n\nDonald Maurice Broom (born 14 July 1942) is an English biologist and emeritus professor of animal welfare at Cambridge University.\n\nDonald Broom attended Whitgift School and subsequently St. Catharine's College, Cambridge. He received his BA and MA degrees in zoology and Ph.D. degree in animal behaviour from Cambridge University, supervised by William Homan Thorpe. During his time as an undergraduate, he was a keen sportsman participating in squash and water-polo. He also represented the university and was nationally ranked in modern pentathlon, becoming a Blue and being elected to the Hawks' Club.\n\nPrevious academic positions include Lecturer, Senior Lecturer and Reader at the University of Reading. Previous advisory roles include Scientific Advisor to the Council of Europe Standing Committee on the Welfare of Animals Kept for Farming Purposes (1987–2000), Chairman of the European Union Scientific Veterinary Committee (Animal Welfare Section – 1990–1997) and Member of the UK Farm Animal Welfare Council (1991–1999). He served three years as President of the St. Catharine's College, Cambridge and was elected a fellow of the Zoological Society of London in 1987. He was awarded a Sc.D. from Cambridge University in 2002. He retired as the Colleen Macleod Professor of Animal Welfare in 2009 but continues in his other roles as Vice-Chairman of European Food Safety Authority Panel on Animal Health and Welfare and Chairman of Working Group on Welfare of Animals during Land Animal Transport for the World Organization for Animal Health.\n\nBroom is a research scientist and science populariser who has written many books and articles on ethology, animal welfare, and evolution, gives public lectures and broadcasts, as well as advising European political bodies on animal welfare science matters.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "101919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101919", "title": "Encyclopédie", "text": "Encyclopédie\n\nEncyclopédie, ou dictionnaire raisonné des sciences, des arts et des métiers (English: \"Encyclopedia, or a Systematic Dictionary of the Sciences, Arts, and Crafts\"), better known as Encyclopédie, was a general encyclopedia published in France between 1751 and 1772, with later supplements, revised editions, and translations. It had many writers, known as the Encyclopédistes. It was edited by Denis Diderot and, until 1759, co-edited by Jean le Rond d'Alembert.\n\nThe \"Encyclopédie\" is most famous for representing the thought of the Enlightenment. According to Denis Diderot in the article \"Encyclopédie\", the \"Encyclopédie\"'s aim was \"to change the way people think\" and for people to be able to inform themselves and to know things. He and the other contributors advocated for the secularization of learning away from the Jesuits. Diderot wanted to incorporate all of the world's knowledge into the \"Encyclopédie\" and hoped that the text could disseminate all this information to the public and future generations.\n\nIt was also the first encyclopedia to include contributions from many named contributors, and it was the first general encyclopedia to describe the mechanical arts. In the first publication, seventeen folio volumes were accompanied by detailed engravings. Later volumes were published without the engravings, in order to better reach a wide audience within Europe.\n\nThe \"Encyclopédie\" was originally conceived as a French translation of Ephraim Chambers's \"Cyclopaedia\" (1728). Ephraim Chambers had first published his \"Cyclopaedia, or an Universal Dictionary of Arts and Sciences\" in two volumes in London in 1728, following several dictionaries of arts and sciences that had emerged in Europe since the late 17th century. This work became quite renowned, and four editions were published between 1738 and 1742. An Italian translation appeared between 1747 and 1754. In France a member of the banking family Lambert had started translating Chambers into French, but in 1745 the expatriate Englishman John Mills and German Gottfried Sellius were the first to actually prepare a French edition of Ephraim Chambers's \"Cyclopaedia\" for publication, which they entitled \"Encyclopédie\".\n\nEarly in 1745 a prospectus for the \"Encyclopédie\" was published to attract subscribers to the project. This four page prospectus was illustrated by Jean-Michel Papillon, and accompanied by a plan, stating that the work would be published in five volumes from June 1746 until the end of 1748. The text was translated by Mills and Sellius, and it was corrected by an unnamed person, who appears to have been Denis Diderot.\n\nThe prospectus was reviewed quite positively and cited at some length in several journals. The \"Mémoires pour l'histoire des sciences et des beaux arts\" journal was lavish in its praise: \"voici deux des plus fortes entreprises de Littérature qu'on ait faites depuis long-temps\" (here are two of the greatest efforts undertaken in literature in a very long time). The \"Mercure Journal\" in June 1745, printed a 25-page article that specifically praised Mill's role as translator; the \"Journal\" introduced Mills as an English scholar who had been raised in France and who spoke both French and English as a native. The \"Journal\" reported that Mills had discussed the work with several academics, was zealous about the project, had devoted his fortune to support this enterprise, and was the sole owner of the publishing privilege.\n\nHowever, the cooperation fell apart later on in 1745. André Le Breton, the publisher commissioned to manage the physical production and sales of the volumes, cheated Mills out of the subscription money, claiming for example that Mills's knowledge of French was inadequate. In a confrontation Le Breton physically assaulted Mills. Mills took Le Breton to court, but the court decided in Le Breton's favour. Mills returned to England soon after the court's ruling. For his new editor, Le Breton settled on the mathematician Jean Paul de Gua de Malves. Among those hired by Malves were the young Étienne Bonnot de Condillac, Jean le Rond d'Alembert, and Denis Diderot. Within thirteen months, in August 1747, Gua de Malves was fired for being an ineffective leader. Le Breton then hired Diderot and d'Alembert to be the new editors. Diderot would remain as editor for the next twenty-five years, seeing the \"Encyclopédie\" through to its completion; d'Alembert would leave this role in 1758. As d'Alembert worked on the \"Encyclopédie\", its title expanded. As of 1750, the full title was \"Encyclopédie, ou Dictionnaire raisonné des sciences, des arts et des métiers, par une société de gens de lettres, mis en ordre par M. Diderot de l'Académie des Sciences et Belles-Lettres de Prusse, et quant à la partie mathématique, par M. d'Alembert de l'Académie royale des Sciences de Paris, de celle de Prusse et de la Société royale de Londres.\" (\"Encyclopedia: or a Systematic Dictionary of the Sciences, Arts, and Crafts, by a Company of Persons of Letters, edited by M. Diderot of the Academy of Sciences and \"Belles-lettres\" of Prussia: as to the Mathematical Portion, arranged by M. d'Alembert of the Royal Academy of Sciences of Paris, to the Academy of Sciences in Prussia and to the Royal Society of London.\") The title page was amended as d'Alembert acquired more titles.\n\nThe work consisted of 28 volumes, with 71,818 articles and 3,129 illustrations. The first seventeen volumes were published between 1751 and 1765; eleven volumes of plates were finished by 1772. Engraver Robert Bénard provided at least 1,800 plates for the work. Because of its occasional radical contents (see \"Contents\" below), the \"Encyclopédie\" caused much controversy in conservative circles, and on the initiative of the Parlement of Paris, the French government suspended the encyclopedia's \"privilège\" in 1759. Despite the suspension, work continued \"in secret,\" partially because the project had highly placed supporters, such as Malesherbes and Madame de Pompadour. The authorities deliberately ignored the continued work; they thought their official ban was sufficient to appease the church and other enemies of the project.\n\nDuring the \"secretive\" period, Diderot accomplished a well-known work of subterfuge. The title pages of volumes 1 through 7, published between 1751 and 1757, claimed Paris as the place of publication. However, the title pages of the subsequent text volumes, 8 through 17, published together in 1765, show Neufchastel as the place of publication. Neufchastel (now Neuchâtel) is safely across the French border in what is now part Switzerland but which was then an independent principality, where official production of the \"Encyclopédie\" was secure from interference by agents of the French state. In particular, regime opponents of the \"Encyclopédie\" could not seize the production plates for the \"Encyclopédie\" in Paris because those printing plates ostensibly existed only in Switzerland. Meanwhile, the actual production of volumes 8 through 17 quietly continued in Paris.\n\nIn 1775, Charles Joseph Panckoucke obtained the rights to reissue the work. He issued five volumes of supplementary material and a two-volume index from 1776 to 1780. Some scholars include these seven \"extra\" volumes as part of the first full issue of the \"Encyclopédie\", for a total of 35 volumes, although they were not written or edited by the original authors.\n\nFrom 1782 to 1832, Panckoucke and his successors published an expanded edition of the work in some 166 volumes as the \"Encyclopédie méthodique\". That work, enormous for its time, occupied a thousand workers in production and 2,250 contributors.\n\nSince the objective of the editors of the \"Encyclopédie\" was to gather all the knowledge in the world, Diderot and D'Alembert knew they would need various contributors to help them with their project. Many of the philosophes (intellectuals of the French Enlightenment) contributed to the \"Encyclopédie\", including Diderot himself, Voltaire, Rousseau, and Montesquieu. The most prolific contributor was Louis de Jaucourt, who wrote 17,266 articles between 1759 and 1765, or about eight per day, representing a full 25% of the \"Encyclopédie\". The publication became a place where these contributors could share their ideas and interests.\n\nStill, as Frank Kafker has argued, the Encyclopedists were not a unified group:\n\nFollowing is a list of notable contributors with their area of contribution (for a more detailed list, see Encyclopédistes):\n\n\nDue to the controversial nature of some of the articles, several of its editors went to jail.\n\n Like most encyclopedias, the \"Encyclopédie\" attempted to collect and summarize human knowledge in a variety of fields and topics, ranging from philosophy to theology to science and the arts. The \"Encyclopédie\" was controversial for reorganizing knowledge based on human reason instead of by nature or theology. Knowledge and intellect branched from the three categories of human thought, whereas all other perceived aspects of knowledge, including theology, were simply branches or components of these man made categories. The introduction to the \"Encyclopédie\", D'Alembert's \"Preliminary Discourse\", is considered an important exposition of Enlightenment ideals. Among other things, it presents a taxonomy of human knowledge (see Fig. 3), which was inspired by Francis Bacon's \"The Advancement of Learning\". The three main branches of knowledge are: \"Memory\"/History, \"Reason\"/Philosophy, and \"Imagination\"/Poetry. This tree of knowledge was created to help readers evaluate the usefulness of the content within the \"Encyclopédie\", and to organize its content. Notable is the fact that theology is ordered under \"Philosophy\" and that \"Knowledge of God\" is only a few nodes away from \"Divination\" and \"Black Magic\".\n\nThe authors of the \"Encyclopédie\" challenged religious authority. The authors, especially Diderot and d'Alembert, located religion within a system of reason and philosophy. They did not reject all religious claims, but believed theology and notions of God must be proven. Louis de Jaucourt therefore harshly criticized superstition as an intellectual error in his article on the topic. The writers emphasized an individual’s right to religious sovereignty. They therefore doubted the authenticity of presupposed historical events cited in the Bible and questioned the validity of miracles and the Resurrection. However, some contemporary scholars argue the skeptical view of miracles in the \"Encyclopédie\" may be interpreted in terms of \"Protestant debates about the cessation of the charismata.\" The writers emphasized an individual’s right to religious sovereignty.\n\nThese challenges led to suppression from church and state authorities. The \"Encyclopédie\" and its contributors endured many attacks and attempts at censorship by the clergy or other censors, which threatened the publication of the project as well as the authors themselves. The King's Council suppressed the \"Encyclopédie\" in 1759. The Catholic Church, under Pope Clement XIII, placed it on its list of banned books. Prominent intellectuals criticized it, most famously Lefranc de Pompignan at the French Academy. A playwright, Charles Palissot de Montenoy, wrote a play called \"Les Philosophes\" to criticize the \"Encyclopédie\". When Abbé André Morellet, one of the contributors to the \"Encyclopédie\", wrote a mock preface for it, he was sent to the Bastille due to allegations of libel.\n\nTo defend themselves from controversy, the encyclopedia’s articles wrote of theological topics in a mixed manner. Some articles supported orthodoxy, and some included overt criticisms of Christianity. To avoid direct retribution from censors, writers often hid criticism in obscure articles or expressed it in ironic terms. Nonetheless, the contributors still openly attacked the Catholic Church in certain articles with examples including criticizing excess festivals, monasteries, and celibacy of the clergy.\n\nThe \"Encyclopédie\" is often seen as an influence for the French Revolution because of its emphasis on Enlightenment political theories. Diderot and other authors, in famous articles such as \"Political Authority\", emphasized the shift of the origin of political authority from divinity or heritage to the people. This Enlightenment ideal, espoused by Rousseau and others, advocated that people have the right to consent to their government in a form of social contract.\n\nAnother major, contentious component of political issues in the \"Encyclopédie\" was personal or natural rights. Articles such as \"Natural Rights\" by Diderot explained the relationship between individuals and the general will. The natural state of humanity, according to the authors, is barbaric and unorganized. To balance the desires of individuals and the needs of the general will, humanity requires civil society and laws that benefit all persons. Writers, to varying degrees, criticized Thomas Hobbes' notions of a selfish humanity that requires a sovereign to rule over it.\n\nIn terms of economics, the \"Encyclopédie\" expressed favor for laissez-faire ideals or principles of economic liberalism. Articles concerning economics or markets, such as \"Economic Politics\", generally favored free competition and denounced monopolies. Articles often criticized guilds as creating monopolies and approved of state intervention to remove such monopolies. The writers advocated extending laissez-faire principles of liberalism from the market to the individual level, such as with privatization of education and opening of careers to all levels of wealth.\n\nAt the same time, the \"Encyclopédie\" was a vast compendium of knowledge, notably on the technologies of the period, describing the traditional craft tools and processes. Much information was taken from the \"Descriptions des Arts et Métiers\". These articles applied a scientific approach to understanding the mechanical and production processes, and offered new ways to improve machines to make them more efficient. Diderot felt that people should have access to \"useful knowledge\" that they can apply to their everyday life.\n\nThe \"Encyclopédie\" played an important role in the intellectual ferment leading to the French Revolution. \"No encyclopaedia perhaps has been of such political importance, or has occupied so conspicuous a place in the civil and literary history of its century. It sought not only to give information, but to guide opinion,\" wrote the 1911 \"Encyclopædia Britannica\". In \"The Encyclopédie and the Age of Revolution\", a work published in conjunction with a 1989 exhibition of the \"Encyclopédie\" at the University of California, Los Angeles, Clorinda Donato writes the following:\nWhile many contributors to the \"Encyclopédie\" had no interest in radically reforming French society, the \"Encyclopédie\" as a whole pointed that way. The \"Encyclopédie\" denied that the teachings of the Catholic Church could be treated as authoritative in matters of science. The editors also refused to treat the decisions of political powers as definitive in intellectual or artistic questions. Some articles talked about changing social and political institutions that would improve their society for everyone. Given that Paris was the intellectual capital of Europe at the time and that many European leaders used French as their administrative language, these ideas had the capacity to spread.\n\nThe \"Encyclopédie\"s influence continues today. Historian Dan O'Sullivan compares it to Wikipedia:\n\nApproximate size of the \"Encyclopédie\":\n\n\nPrint run: 4,250 copies (note: even single-volume works in the 18th Century seldom had a print run of more than 1,500 copies).\n\n\nReadex Microprint Corporation, NY 1969. 5 vol. The full text and images reduced to four double-spread pages of the original appearing on one folio-sized page of this printing.\n\nLater released by the Pergamon Press, NY and Paris with .\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3795271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3795271", "title": "Enron Code of Ethics", "text": "Enron Code of Ethics\n\nThe Enron Code of Ethics was a 64-page booklet published by Enron Corporation, the last known edition of which was in July 2000.\n\nThe sale of copies of the booklet on Ebay has passed into internet folklore. \nAn article in the \"San Francisco Chronicle\" for February 10, 2002 reported a final bid level on one copy of USD 202.50. \nAnother sale on Ebay (which ran from February 13 to February 20, 2002) carried the item number \"1074129276\". In the latter sale, the booklet was sold together with a cup, also allegedly an Enron product, which featured text extolling the virtues of the Enron retirement plan.\n\nThe content of the booklet has attracted less interest than the fact that Enron had a code of ethics.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51585707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51585707", "title": "Entrepreneurial feminism", "text": "Entrepreneurial feminism\n\nEntrepreneurial feminism, developed from social feminism, is a theory that explains how feminist values are enacted through the venture creation process to improve the position of women in society. Coined by Barbara Orser and Catherine Elliott, entrepreneurship is viewed as a mechanism to create economic self-sufficiency and equity-based outcomes for girls and women. Entrepreneurial feminists enter commercial markets to create wealth and social change, based on the ethics of cooperation, equality, and mutual respect.\n\n"}
{"id": "36580111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36580111", "title": "Etiquette in Society, in Business, in Politics, and at Home", "text": "Etiquette in Society, in Business, in Politics, and at Home\n\nEtiquette in Society, in Business, in Politics, and at Home (frequently referenced as Etiquette) is a book authored by Emily Post in 1922. The book covers manners and other social rules, and has been updated frequently to reflect social changes, such as diversity, redefinitions of family, and mobile technology. The 19th edition of \"Etiquette\" (2017), is authored by Post's descendants Lizzie Post and Daniel Post Senning.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47259127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47259127", "title": "Eugeniu Sperantia", "text": "Eugeniu Sperantia\n\nEugeniu Sperantia ( – January 11/12, 1972) was a Romanian poet, aesthetician, essayist, sociologist and philosopher.\n\nHe was born in Bucharest to folklorist Theodor Speranția and his wife Elena (\"née\" Cruceanu), a relative of poet Mihail Cruceanu. He attended primary and high school in his native city, graduating in 1906. That year, he made his published debut, in Ovid Densusianu's \"Vieața Nouă\". Prior to that, he had frequented Alexandru Macedonski's circle. In 1910, he graduated from the philosophy faculty of Bucharest University. Two years later, he received a doctorate in literature and philosophy; his thesis dealt with pragmatic apriorism. He took specialty courses in Germany from 1913 to 1914. A high school teacher from the time he was still a student, Sperantia was dispatched to the newly acquired Transylvania province in the wake of World War I, serving as director of higher education for Cluj (1919-1921), professor at the Oradea law academy (1929-1934) and professor of sociology and philosophy of law at Cluj University (1934-1949). He contributed poems and articles to \"Flacăra\", \"Vieața Nouă\", \"Cele trei Crișuri\", \"Românul literar\", \"Revista celorlalți\", \"Farul\", \"Revue Roumaine\", \"Luceafărul\", \"Gând românesc\", \"Gândirea\", \"Steaua\" and \"Familia\", sometimes using the pen names Eugenius, Genică, Corina Lazzariny, Victor Olimp, Victor Spoială, Victor Talpă and Cerchez.\n\nSperantia was an early participant in the local Symbolist movement, drawing praise from Macedonski, Densusianu and Gheorghe Bogdan-Duică. Hailed, at the same time, by Constantin Rădulescu-Motru for his contributions to philosophy and sociology, he was a professor shaped in the spirit of Titu Maiorescu's school. His published books include collections of Symbolist poems (\"Zvonuri din necunoscut\", 1921; \"Pasul umbrelor și al veciei\", 1930, Romanian Writers' Society prize; \"Sus\", 1939), a novel (\"Casa cu nalbă\", 1916), aesthetic studies (\"Frumosul ca înaltă suferință\", 1921; \"\"Papillons\" de Schumann\", 1934, Romanian Academy prize), memoirs (\"Figuri universitare\", 1967; \"Amintiri din lumea literară\", 1967), short biographies of musicians, philosophical essays, studies of psychology (\"Psihologia gândirii\", 1922) and of philosophy of law (\"Principii fundamentale de filosofie juridică\", 1936). A member of the Romanian Writers' Society from 1916, as well as of international associations for legal philosophers and sociologists, he took part in numerous congresses abroad. He also undertook a prodigious cultural activity in Transylvania in the first years after the war. A scholar of multiple disciplines with an encyclopedic spirit, Sperantia forms part of Romania's humanist tradition. He reached the retirement age in 1949, early in the communist regime. This took place after he had undergone a concerted series of attacks during the preceding several years, both from committed Bolsheviks and from the opportunists who had turned to Marxism overnight.\n"}
{"id": "38678572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38678572", "title": "Ganymede (software)", "text": "Ganymede (software)\n\nGanymede is an open source network directory management framework, designed to allow administrator teams to collaboratively manage subsets of an organization's directory services, such as NIS, DNS, Active Directory / LDAP, DHCP, and RADIUS, among others. First announced and released at the 1998 USENIX LISA conference, Ganymede has been under public development and use since then.\n\nGanymede uses a central server which supports clients connecting via Java RMI. The Ganymede server maintains a transactional object graph database of network information such as user objects, group objects, system objects, network objects, etc. Users and administrators run Ganymede clients (GUI or XML based) to create, modify, or delete objects in the database. Whenever a user commits a transaction, the Ganymede server schedules a number of background threads to write out updated network source files and run whatever system scripts are required to propagate the new data into the managed network directory services. If multiple users are working concurrently, the scheduler makes sure that the entire network environment is updated with transactionally consistent directory images as builds finish and new ones are issued.\n\nThe Ganymede server is meant to be programmed by the adopter, who can define arbitrary object data types along with custom logic to interact with the user through the GUI and to maintain consistency within and between objects. Adopters can also create custom tasks which can be executed at specified times by the internal Ganymede scheduler. Such custom tasks can make changes in the server's object database and/or can run external scripts to update external services.\n\nGanymede has an elaborate XML data format which can be used to import and export the server's object database schema and object data. Importing XML will typically result in the creation, modification, or deletion of database objects, and will trigger one or more network directory service rebuilds just as using the GUI client would do.\n\nAbove all, Ganymede is designed around administration teams. Administrators are members of 'Owner Groups', which own objects. Any object that is changed by a user or an automated task can result in change report email being sent to administrators in the appropriate Owner Group, making it possible for admins to keep up to date with changes that others in their groups are making. Owner Groups can be granted authority over arbitrary subsets of the object database, making it easy to slice up the network directory space in any fashion that may be desired.\n\nAs a programmable framework, Ganymede must be programmed for a specific set of directory management tasks. Fundamental Generic Networking in Germany has used it as the basis of their Doctor DNS project, which is being used to manage DNS for the Kaiserslautern University of Technology.\n\n"}
{"id": "3073878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3073878", "title": "Gerhard Dorn", "text": "Gerhard Dorn\n\nGerhard Dorn (c. 1530 – 1584) was a Belgian philosopher, translator, alchemist, physician and bibliophile.\n\nThe details of Gerhard Dorn's early life, along with those of many other 16th century personalities, are lost to history. It is known that he was born about 1530 in Mechelen, which is part of modern-day Belgium's Antwerp Province. He studied with Adam von Bodenstein, to whom his first book is dedicated and began publishing books from around 1565. He used John Dee's personal glyph, the \"Monas Hieroglyphica\" on the title page of his \"Chymisticum artificium\".\n\nTogether with von Bodenstein, he rescued many of Paracelsus's manuscripts and printed them for the first time. He also translated many of them into Latin for the Basel publisher Pietro Perna and lived in Basel during the 1570s and Frankfurt in the early 1580s, where he died when he was in his mid-fifties.\n\nDorn claimed to have found a better philosophy and a more Christian way of thinking in Paracelsus and was one of Paracelsus's strongest advocates. He depreciated practical laboratory work in favor of theoretical study of the human mind, considering the prevailing education of his day too scholastic. Like many alchemists, Dorn was hostile to the philosophy of Aristotle, with its emphasis upon the material world declaring that \"whoever wishes to learn the alchemical art, let him not learn the philosophy of Aristotle but that which teaches the truth\".\n\nDorn argued that learning needed a reform as had religion in the Reformation, as had medicine in the teachings of Paracelsus. What was needed, he asserted, was a mystical and spiritual \"philosophy of love\"—his radical theology claimed that it was God, not man who was in need of Redemption and he defined the alchemical opus as a labor which redeemed not man but God, a proposal which came perilously close to being heretical in the eyes of Christian orthodoxy. His principal writings are included in Volume I of the \"Theatrum Chemicum\".\n\nAs Monika Wikman summarized in her book \"Pregnant Darkness\", \"Alchemists such as Gerhard Dorn, in his work 'The Speculative Philosophy,' referred to this next alchemical stage [inner healing] as \"Unus Mundus\", where splits are healed, duality ceases, and the individual, the \"vir unus\", unites with the world soul.\"\n\nDorn's writings were of great interest to the psychologist Carl Jung, enough for him to take Dorn's principal writings with him when traveling to India in 1928. He is one of Jung's most frequently quoted sources upon alchemy.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38468625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38468625", "title": "Good News Awards", "text": "Good News Awards\n\nGood News Awards are awarded annually to news media organizations with offices in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan, for specific examples of published media that \"affirm the dignity of people, recognize and uphold universally-recognized human values, and uplift and nourish the human spirit.\" The Good News Awards, and related Certificates of Merit, have been given annually since 1998 and are given for works in broadcasting, print or the web.\n\nThe divisions and categories of Good News Awards have changed over time; for the 2012 and 2013 award years there were four divisions for entry:\nThe six categories in each division were:\n\nSubmissions are for works from the previous calendar year, with at most one submission per category per media organization. Submissions are made in February by an editor of the media organization, and Awards are formally to the media organization with credit given to the individual author(s) of the work. Representatives and authors from the winning organizations have been invited to a luncheon and receive a plaque or certificate. The media organization itself receives the award, which is an Upper Peninsula photograph or painting that combines light with evidence of peaceful human works. In 2012, forty-six media professionals were recognized from among twenty Upper Peninsula media organizations that submitted entries.\n\nMaterial receiving awards is expected to uphold values such as community, creativity, tolerance, justice, respect, compassion, perseverance, truth, faith, care for the environment or the dedication to excellence. The awards have been sponsored annually by the religious leaders of the Evangelical Lutheran, Presbyterian, United Methodist, Catholic and Episcopal Churches in the Upper Peninsula region. Although the sponsors have been religious organizations, the award criteria do not involve religious content and topics of award-winning material are generally secular.\n"}
{"id": "47339417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47339417", "title": "Ibn Kurr", "text": "Ibn Kurr\n\nShams al-Din Muhammad ibn 'Isa ibn Hasan al-Baghdadi, known as Ibn Kurr (d. 1357 CE), was a musical theorist of medieval Islam. He is the author of \"Ġāyat al-matḷūb fī 'ilm al-adwār wa-'l-dụrūb\" (\"The Enticing Roads to Rhythms and Modes\"), a work on the musicological discourse in Cairo during the first half of the 14th century CE. He was born in Cairo to an Iraqi refugee family.\n"}
{"id": "419242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=419242", "title": "John Trudell", "text": "John Trudell\n\nJohn Trudell (February 15, 1946 – December 8, 2015) was a Native American author, poet, actor, musician, and political activist. He was the spokesperson for the United Indians of All Tribes' takeover of Alcatraz beginning in 1969, broadcasting as \"Radio Free Alcatraz\". During most of the 1970s, he served as the chairman of the American Indian Movement, based in Minneapolis, Minnesota.\n\nAfter his pregnant wife, three children and mother-in-law were killed in 1979 in a suspicious fire at the home of his parents-in-law on the Shoshone-Paiute Tribes Duck Valley Indian Reservation in Nevada, Trudell turned to writing, music and film as a second career. He acted in films in the 1990s. The documentary \"Trudell\" (2005) was made about him and his life as an activist and artist.\n\nTrudell was born in Omaha, Nebraska on February 15, 1946, as the son of a Santee Dakota father and a Mexican mother. He grew up in small towns near the Santee Sioux Reservation in northern Nebraska near the southeast corner of South Dakota. He was educated in local schools and also in Santee Dakota culture.\n\nIn 1963 when 17 years old, Trudell dropped out of high school and left the Midwest by joining the US Navy. He served during the early years of the Vietnam War and stayed in the Navy until 1967.\n\nAfterward, he attended San Bernardino Valley College, a two-year community college in San Bernardino, California, studying radio and broadcasting. He decided to work through political activism.\n\nAfter leaving the military, Trudell had become involved in Indian activism. In 1969, he became the spokesperson for the United Indians of All Tribes' occupation of Alcatraz Island. This was a mostly student-member group that had developed in San Francisco. Trudell went to Alcatraz a week after the occupation started. He used his background in broadcasting and ran a radio station from the island through a cooperative arrangement with students at the University of California, Berkeley, broadcasting at night over the Berkeley FM station. The show was called \"Radio Free Alcatraz\". He discussed the cause of the occupation and American Indian issues, and played traditional Native American music. He criticized how \"the system today is only geared toward white needs.\" He spoke for the many Indians who believed they did not fit in with the then majority European-American population of the nation. He became a spokesperson for the occupation specifically and for the Alcatraz-Red Power Movement generally, as the author Vine Deloria, Jr. named it. Trudell was the spokesman for the nearly two-year-long occupation, until 1971.\n\nAfter the failure of the federal government to meet demands of the protesters at Alcatraz, Trudell joined the American Indian Movement. It had been established in 1968 in Minneapolis among urban American Indians, first to deal with police harassment and injustice in the law enforcement system. Trudell acted as its national chairman from 1973 until 1979. He took the position after the first chairman, Carter Camp, was convicted for actions related to a protest and was sentenced to jail.\n\nIn 1975 Trudell was arrested on charges of assault, felonious assault and assault with a deadly weapon. He had gone to a reservation trading post to try to get better food for senior residents. He tried to pay using food stamps, but the trading post did not accept them. The police report said that he fired a shot inside the store.\n\nOn February 12, 1979, Trudell's wife Tina Manning and their three children, and his mother-in-law Leah Hicks-Manning died in a suspicious fire at the home of his parents-in-law on the Duck Valley Indian Reservation in Nevada. His father-in-law Arthur Manning survived. He was a member of the Duckwater Shoshone Tribe's Tribal Council who was working for treaty rights. Opponents included the local tribal police chief and the BIA superintendent, John Artichoker. Leah coordinated social services at the reservation. Tina had been working for tribal water rights at the Wildhorse Reservoir. Opponents of her campaign included officials of the local BIA, Elko County and Nevada state officials, members of the water recreation industry, and local European-American ranchers. Other activists have also speculated whether there was government involvement behind the tragedy.\n\nTrudell believed that the fire was arson, but the BIA police investigation claimed that it was accidental. It occurred soon after he had been leading a demonstration in Washington, DC. Trudell believed that the fire was meant to threaten and silence him and his activist wife. In numerous interviews, he has expressed distrust for the federal government and specifically the FBI. The FBI has been implicated in wrongdoing in Pine Ridge and other reservations during this period, which included offering monetary support to the Dickie Wilson's Guardians of the Ogallala Nation (GOONS). Essentially the GOONS, paid by Dickie Wilson (who in turn was paid by the FBI) the then Band Council Chief (elected in what many believe was a rigged election) terrorized and murdered traditional Sioux people who spoke out against federal government treatment of American Indian people. The house fire that killed Trudell's family happened within 24 hours of him burning a US flag on the steps of the FBI building in Washington D.C. in protest of the government's treatment of Native Americans and the Sioux Nation.\n\nJohn Trudell was the co-founder of Hempstead Project Heart with Willie Nelson, which became a project of Earth Island Institute in 2012. Hempstead Project Heart is dedicated to raising awareness about the environmental, social, and economic benefits of legalizing industrial hemp in America.\n\nTrudell was also involved with Seva Foundation and their Native American programs. He performed at numerous benefit concerts in support of their work.\n\nIn 2004, Trudell testified in the federal trial of Arlo Looking Cloud, an Oglala Lakota American Indian Movement (AIM) member charged in the kidnapping and murder of Anna Mae Aquash, the highest-ranking woman in AIM, in December 1975. Trudell testified that Looking Cloud had told him that John Graham, another low-level AIM member, was the gunman in the murder. Trudell identified Graham from photographs. Looking Cloud was convicted in 2004 and sentenced to life imprisonment.\n\nHis testimony was part of the evidence considered by the Canadian judge who ordered Graham's extradition to the United States in February 2005. On March 2, 2005, the Native Youth Movement Vancouver announced a boycott of John Trudell's music and poetry in retaliation for his testimony, and alleged that the FBI had killed Aquash. In early 2006, Michael Donnelly explored the issues related to the Aquash murder in the American political newsletter \"CounterPunch.\" He documented why Trudell's testimony should be considered substantive and that activists were getting on the wrong side of the issue by attacking him. In 2010, Graham was convicted in a South Dakota state court of felony murder of Aquash and sentenced to life imprisonment.\n\nIn 1968, Trudell married his first wife, Fenicia \"Lou\" Ordonez.\n\nIn 1972, Trudell married Tina Manning, an activist of the Duckwater Shoshone Tribe. They had three children together: Ricarda Star, Sunshine Karma, and Eli Changing Sun. In February 1979, Tina (who was pregnant), the children and her mother Leah Hicks-Manning were all killed in a fire at her parents' house on the Duck Valley Reservation. Her father Arthur survived. Trudell was out of town.\n\nTrudell was in a relationship with Marcheline Bertrand, the mother of actress Angelina Jolie, at the time of her death from cancer in 2007.\n\nIn early December 2015, it was announced that Trudell was in the last stages of terminal cancer. His death was prematurely announced on the evening of December 4, 2015; his publicist asked for a retraction and the stories were largely removed from the websites where they had been posted. Trudell died on December 8, 2015. Before dying, he said: \"My ride showed up. Celebrate Love. Celebrate Life.\"\n\nIn 1979, John Trudell met musical artist and activist Jackson Browne and became more interested in the musical world (and recording albums and performing his own compositions in live venues).\n\nTrudell recorded an album \"A.K.A Grafitti Man\" (\"graffiti\" was misspelled in the title) with Kiowa guitarist Jesse Ed Davis that was originally available on cassette tape format only. This comports with the practice common to American indigenous and other so-called minorities of distributing music mixtapes captured live at group events and copied and distributed through non-commercial channels, like those of the San Francisco-based rock group Grateful Dead, Native American powwow music performances in general, and African American gatherings whence came the expression Each One Teach One, common also to an emerging grassroots movement that was arguably itself a \"response\" to the reactionary madness of slavery and/or military-industrial/imperialist hegemony flourishing in the 1980s.\n\nIn 1990 John Trudell took part in Tony Hymas's \"Oyaté\" project.\n\nIn 1992 Trudell remade and re-released \"A.K.A Grafitti Man\" as an audio CD to substantial critical and popular acclaim.\n\nArguably his greatest musical success came with the 1994 album \"Johnny Damas & Me\" that was described as \"a culmination of years of poetic work, and an example of a process of fusing traditional sounds, values, and sensibilities with thought-provoking lyrics, this time with urgent rock and roll.\"\n\nOther musical releases (many with his band Bad Dog) include \"A.K.A Grafitti Man\" (1986), \"Heart Jump Bouquet\" (1987), \"Blue Indians\" (1999), \"Descendant Now Ancestor\" (2001), \"Bone Days\" (2001), \"Live A Fip\" (2003), \"Madness and The Moremes\" (2007), \"Crazier Than Hell\" (2010), \"Wazi's Dream\" (2015).\n\nPopular Music critic Neal Ullestad said of Trudell's live performances, \"This isn't simply pop rock with Indian drums and chants added. It's integrated rock and roll by an American Indian with a multicultural band directed to anyone who will listen.\"\n\nThe closing sequence of Alanis Obomsawin's 2014 documentary film \"Trick or Treaty?\" is set to Trudell's song \"Crazy Horse.\"\n\nAbout six months after the deaths of his family, John Trudell started writing poetry. He described his work, \"They're called poems, but in reality they're lines given to me to hang on to.\" He has written many poems, including \"Baby Boom Che\" and \"Rant and Roll,\" and hundreds of others.\n\nIn the 2010s he often shared recent poetic musings and written works-in-progress via social media, such as his Facebook page.\n\nVarious impromptu videos of Trudell in live concert appearances or addressing political, social, indigenous rights and educational groups are posted on Google's Youtube.com, and although he was sought after by various print and broadcast media outlets for \"sound byte commentary,\" Trudell preferred to speak in less frenetic style directly to gatherings assembled for specific causes that he supports (e.g., advocating on behalf of re-legalizing hemp cultivation for its many beneficial uses, including sustainable paper pulp).\n\nTrudell often used his poetry as lyrics for recordings, and began in 1982 to set them to traditional American Indian music, which also in the 1980s eventually led to the recording of \"A.K.A Graffiti Man\", as he struggled to make sense of bewildering situations that confronted him, including the loss of so many loved ones.\n\nIn late 1988, Australian rock band Midnight Oil invited Trudell (as Graffiti Man) to tour with them during their \"From Diesel and Dust to the Big Mountain\" world tour. They billed Trudell's part of the show as \"Native American activist performance.\" Members of Midnight Oil played traditional instruments, sang in native American languages, and accompanied songs with heavy psychedelic Hendrix-style guitar, accompanying Trudell. This exposure brought Trudell new and larger audiences.\n\nTrudell also toured in 1993 with Peter Gabriel's global WOMAD (World Music and Dance) production. He was billed as John Trudell, performing his traditional songs and reading his poetry.\n\nIn 2008, Trudell published a book, \"Lines From a Mined Mind: The Words of John Trudell,\" a collection of 25 years of poetry, lyrics and essays.\n\nTrudell created a career as an actor, performing in roles in \"Pow Wow Highway\" (1989), \"Thunderheart\" (1992), \"On Deadly Ground\" (1995) and \"Smoke Signals\" (1998) (as the Radio speaker Randy Peone on K-REZ radio). He was an adviser to the production of \"Incident at Oglala\", directed by Michael Apted and produced by Robert Redford. A kind of companion piece to the fictional \"Thunderheart\", the 1992 documentary explores facts related to the 1975 shooting of two FBI agents at the Pine Ridge Indian Reservation, for which Leonard Peltier was convicted in 1977. In \"Thunderheart\", Trudell played a character who resembles Peltier.\n\nDreamkeeper (2003) \"The Legends of American Nations Come to Life\" features several traditional native stories.\nTrudell played a character named Coyote in a story about A Spider and Coyote.\n\nThe filmmaker Heather Rae spent more than a decade making a documentary about Trudell, which was released in 2005. Her intent in \"Trudell\" (2005) was to demonstrate how his political and cultural activities were tied to contemporary history and inspired people. The film premiered at the 2005 Sundance Film Festival in the U.S. documentary competition. The movie has received a mixed response among film critics and viewers. Some claimed it to be thought-provoking and touching, while others suggested Rae made a one-dimensional biopic. The song used at the end of the film is \"Johnny Lobo\" about Trudell by Kris Kristofferson, from his 1995 album \"A Moment of Forever\".\n\nJohn Trudell has appeared on the following albums:\n\nHis music draws from a blend of styles, including rock, blues and native beats, pop and political protest songs. He also draws from his own poetry. His music can be both insightful and funny.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41127929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41127929", "title": "José Miguel Sagüillo", "text": "José Miguel Sagüillo\n\nJosé Miguel Sagüillo is Catedrático and Professor of Logic at the University of Santiago de Compostela xubilado. As a Fulbright Scholar, he studied at the University of Buffalo with John Corcoran, John Kearns, Nicolas Goodman, John Myhill, Richard Vesley, and others. His MA is from Buffalo. His PhD is from the University of Santiago de Compostela but his PhD supervisor was Prof. Rafael Beneyto, Catedrático and Professor of Logic at the University of Valencia. His PhD committee was composed of five professors from different Spanish universities.\n\nHe is co-author with the Oxford philosopher of science Rom Harré of the 2001 book \"El movimiento antimetafísico del siglo XX\", (Madrid: Ediciones Akal). He is sole author of the 2008 monograph \"El Pensamiento Lógico-Matemático\",(Madrid: Ediciones Akal). \n\nAs Professor, he was a Visiting Scholar in the Logic Group at the University of Buffalo and in the Logic and Methodology Group at the University of California at Berkeley.\nHe is the winner of the first Ivor Grattan-Guinness Best Paper Award for History and Philosophy of Logic. The award winning paper is ‘Methodological Practice and Complementary Concepts of Logical Consequence: Tarski’s Model-Theoretic Consequence and Corcoran’s Information-Theoretic Consequence’, published in the journal \"History and Philosophy of Logic\" in the first issue of 2009, pp. 21–48. Candidates are authors of contributions published in \"History and Philosophy of Logic\" in the past year.\n\nHe is co-author with John Corcoran, his teacher and mentor, of what is currently the fourth \"Most read\" paper in HPL. \n"}
{"id": "42442545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42442545", "title": "List of English translations of De rerum natura", "text": "List of English translations of De rerum natura\n\nDe rerum natura (usually translated as \"On the Nature of Things\") is a philosophical epic poem written by Lucretius in Latin around 55 BCE. The poem was lost during the Middle Ages, rediscovered in 1417, and first printed in 1473. Its earliest published translation into any language (French) did not occur until 1650; in English — although earlier partial or unpublished translations exist — the first complete translation to be published was that of Thomas Creech, in heroic couplets, in 1682. Only a few more English translations appeared over the next two centuries, but in the 20th century translations began appearing more frequently.\n\nOnly complete (or nearly complete) translations are listed. Notable translations of individual passages include the \"invocation to Venus\" by Edmund Spenser in \"The Faerie Queene\" IV.X.44-47; and five passages in John Dryden's \"Sylvae\" (1685).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37514656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37514656", "title": "List of Oslo Freedom Forum participants", "text": "List of Oslo Freedom Forum participants\n\nThe following is a list of persons who have attended the Oslo Freedom Forum. The list is categorized first by country of origin, then by profession and year.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nMemory Banda (Malawian girls’ rights activist) (2017)\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19152829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19152829", "title": "Luminous mind", "text": "Luminous mind\n\nLuminous mind (Skt: \"prabhāsvara-citta\" or \"ābhāsvara-citta,\" Pali: \"pabhassara citta;\" T. \"’od gsal gyi sems;\" C. \"guangmingxin;\" J. \"kōmyōshin;\" K. \"kwangmyŏngsim\") is a Buddhist term which appears in a sutta of the Pali Anguttara Nikaya as well as numerous Mahayana texts and Buddhist tantras. It is variously translated as \"brightly shining mind\", or \"mind of clear light\" while the related term luminosity (Skt. \"prabhāsvaratā;\" Tib.\"’od gsal ba;\" Ch. \"guāng míng;\" Jpn. \"kōmyō;\" Kor. \"kwangmyōng\") is also translated as \"clear light\" in Tibetan Buddhist contexts or, \"purity\" in East Asian contexts. The term is usually used to describe the mind or consciousness in different ways. \n\nThis term is given no direct doctrinal explanation in the Pali discourses, but later Buddhist schools explained it using various concepts developed by them. The Theravada school identifies the \"luminous mind\" with the \"bhavanga\", a concept first proposed in the Theravada Abhidhamma. The later schools of the Mahayana identify it with both the Mahayana concepts of \"bodhicitta\" and \"tathagatagarbha\". The notion is of central importance in the philosophy and practice of Dzogchen.\n\nIn the Early Buddhist Texts there are various mentions of luminosity or radiance which refer to the development of the mind in meditation. In the \"Saṅgīti-sutta\" for example, it relates to the attainment of samadhi, where the perception of light (\"āloka sañña\") leads to a mind endowed with luminescence (\"sappabhāsa\"). According to Analayo, the \"Upakkilesa-sutta\" and its parallels mention that the presence of defilements \"results in a loss of whatever inner light or luminescence (obhāsa) had been experienced during meditation\". The Pali \"Dhātuvibhaṅga-sutta\" uses the metaphor of refining gold to describe equanimity reached through meditation, which is said to be \"pure, bright, soft, workable, and luminous\". The Chinese parallel to this text however does not describe equanimity as luminous. Analayo sees this difference due to the propensity of the reciters of the Theravada canon to prefer fire and light imagery.    \n\nThe Pali Anguttara Nikaya (A.I.8-10) states: \"Luminous, monks, is the mind. And it is freed from incoming defilements. The well-instructed disciple of the noble ones discerns that as it actually is present, which is why I tell you that — for the well-instructed disciple of the noble ones — there is development of the mind.\" A parallel passage can be found in the \"Śāriputrābhidharma\", an Abhidharma treatise possibly of the Dharmaguptaka tradition. \n\nAnother mention of a similar term in the Pali discourses occurs in the \"Brahmanimantaṇika-sutta\" of the Majjhima-nikāya and in the \"Kevaḍḍha-sutta\" of the \"Dīgha-nikāya,\" the latter has a parallel in a Dharmaguptaka collection surviving in Chinese translation. The \"Brahmanimantaṇika-sutta\" describes an “invisible consciousness” (viññāṇaṃ anidassanaṃ) that is \"infinite” (anantaṃ), and “luminous in every way” (sabbato pabhaṃ). However, there is disagreement among the various Pali Canon editions as to whom the statement is spoken by, and in some editions it seems as if it is spoken not by the Buddha but by the deva Baka Brahma in a debate with the Buddha. The Chinese parallel to the \"Brahmanimantaṇika-sutta\" has the term used by Baka Brahma.  \n\nThe \"Kevaḍḍha-sutta\"  and its parallel in the Dharmaguptaka Dīrgha-āgama meanwhile, does have a statement spoken by the Buddha which mentions luminous consciousness. The Dīrgha-āgama sutra states:Consciousness that is invisible, Infinite, and luminous of its own: This ceasing, the four elements cease, Coarse and subtle, pretty and ugly cease. Herein name-and-form cease. Consciousness ceasing, the remainder [i.e. name-and-form] also ceases. However, Analayo mentions that parallel recensions of this sutra in other languages like Sanskrit and Tibetan do not mention luminosity (\"pabhaṃ\") and even the various Pali editions do not agree that this verse mentions luminosity, sometimes using \"pahaṃ\" ( \"given up\") instead of \"pabhaṃ\". Whatever the case, according to Analayo, the passage refers to \"the cessation mode of dependent arising, according to which name-and-form cease with the cessation of consciousness\".\n\nAccording to Bhikkhu Brahmāli, the references to luminosity in the \"Brahmanimantaṇika-sutta\" refers to states of samadhi known only to ariyas (noble ones), while the \"pabhassaracitta\" of Anguttara Nikaya (A.I.8-10) is a reference to the mind in jhana. He cites a common passage which notes that the mind with the five hindrances is not considered radiant and thus it makes sense to say that a mind in jhana, which does not have the five hindrances, can be said to be radiant:\nSo too, bhikkhus, there are these five corruptions of the mind (\"cittassa\"), corrupted by which the mind is neither malleable nor wieldy nor radiant (\"pabhassaraṃ\") but brittle and not rightly concentrated for the destruction of the taints. What five? Sensual desire ... ill will ... sloth and torpor ... restlessness and remorse ... doubt is a corruption of the mind, corrupted by which the mind is neither malleable nor wieldy nor radiant but brittle and not rightly concentrated for the destruction of the taints. (SN V 92 and A III 16, cf. AN I 257 and MN III 243). \n\nThe Theravadin Anguttara Nikaya Atthakatha commentary identifies the luminous mind as the \"bhavanga\", the \"ground of becoming\" or \"latent dynamic continuum\", which is the most fundamental level of mental functioning in the Theravada Abhidhammic scheme. This interpretation is also used by Buddhaghosa, in his commentary on the Dhammasangani. Buddhaghosa also mentions that the mind is made luminous by the fourth jhana in his Visuddhimagga.\n\nThanissaro Bhikkhu holds that the commentaries' identification of the luminous mind with the \"bhavanga\" is problematic, but Peter Harvey finds it to be a plausible interpretation.\n\nAjahn Mun, the leading figure behind the modern Thai Forest Tradition, comments on this verse:\n\nThanissaro Bhikkhu sees the luminous mind as \"the mind that the meditator is trying to develop. To perceive its luminosity means understanding that defilements such as greed, aversion, or delusion are not intrinsic to its nature, are not a necessary part of awareness.\" He associates the term with the simile used to describe the fourth jhana which states:\"Just as if a man were sitting covered from head to foot with a white cloth so that there would be no part of his body to which the white cloth did not extend; even so, the monk sits, permeating the body with a pure, bright awareness. There is nothing of his entire body unpervaded by pure, bright awareness.\" \n\nAccording to Tadeusz Skorupski, the Mahasamghika school held that the mind’s nature (\"cittasvabhva\") is fundamentally pure (\"mulavisuddha\"), but it can be contaminated by adventitious defilements.\n\nIn contrast, the Sarvastivada Vaibhasikas held that the mind was not naturally luminous. According to Skorupski for the Vaibhasikas, the mind:is initially or originally contaminated by defilements, and must be purified by abandoning defilements. For them a primordially luminous mind cannot be contaminated by adventitious defilements. If such a mind were contaminated by adventitious defilements, then these naturally impure defilements would become pure once they become associated with the naturally luminous mind. On the other hand, if adventitious defilements remained to be impure, then a naturally luminous mind would not become defiled by their presence. For them the constantly evolving mind is in possession of defilements.\n\nIn Sanskrit Mahayana texts and their translations, the term is a compound of the intensifying prefix \"pra-\", the verbal root \"bhāsa\" (Tibetan: \"'od\") which means light, radiance or luminosity and the modifier \"vara\" (Tibetan: \"gsal ba\") which means 'clear,' and also 'the best of, the highest type.' Jeffrey Hopkins' Tibetan-Sanskrit dictionary glosses the term compound as:clear light; clearly luminous; transparently luminous; translucent; brightly shining; transparent lucidity; splendor; radiance; illumination; spread the light; lustre; come to hear; effulgence; brilliance.\n\nMahayana sutras generally affirm the pure and luminous nature of the mind, adding that this is its natural condition (\"prakrti-prabhsvara-citta\"). In the \"Pañcavimsati Prajñaparamita sutra\", the \"prabhsvara-citta\" is interpreted thus\":\"This mind (citta) is no-mind (acitta), because its natural character is luminous. What is this state of the mind’s luminosity (prabhsvarat)? When the mind is neither associated with nor dissociated from greed, hatred, delusion, proclivities (anusaya), fetters (samyojana), or false views (drsti), then this constitutes its luminosity. Does the mind exist as no-mind? In the state of no-mind (acittat), the states of existence (astit) or non-existence (nstit) can be neither found nor established... What is this state of no-mind? The state of no-mind, which is immutable (avikra) and undifferentiated (avikalpa), constitutes the ultimate reality (dharmat) of all dharmas. Such is the state of no-mind.A similar teaching appears in some recensions of the \"Aṣṭasāhasrikā\" (8000 lines) \"Prajñāpāramitā Sūtra.\" Edward Conze considered the teaching on the \"essential purity of the nature of mind\" (\"prakrti cittasya prabhasvara\"; \"xinxiang benjing\", 心相本淨) to be a central teaching of the Mahayana. However according to Shi Huifeng, this term is not present in the earliest textual witness of the \"Aṣṭasāhasrikā\", the \"Daoxing Banruo Jing\", attributed to Lokaksema (c. 179 CE).\n\nMahayana texts like the Ratnagotravibhanga, also associate \"prabhsvara\" with awakening (\"bodhi\") and also another term, natural or original purity of mind (\"cittaprakrtivisuddhi\"). In some Mahayana shastras, natural purity is another term for Emptiness, Suchness and Dharmadhatu. Asanga's Mahayanasamgraha for example, states:The essential purity (\"prakṛtivyavadāna\"), i.e., the true nature (\"tathatā\"), emptiness (\"śūnyatā\"), the utmost point of reality (\"bhūtakoti\"), the signless (\"animitta\"), the absolute (\"paramārtha\"), the fundamental element (\"dharmadhātu\").The \"Bhadrapala-sutra\" states that the element of consciousness (\"vijñanadhatu\") is pure and penetrates all things while not being affected by them, like the rays of the sun, even though it may appear defiled.\n\nAccording to Walpola Rahula, all the elements of the Yogacara store-consciousness (\"alaya-vijnana\") are already found in the Pali Canon. He writes that the three layers of the mind (\"citta\", called \"luminous\" in the passage discussed above, \"manas\", and \"vijnana\") as presented by Asanga are also used in the Pali Canon. \n\nAccording to Yogacara teachings, as in early Buddhist teachings regarding the \"citta\", the store-consciousness is \"not\" pure, and with the attainment of nirvana comes a level of mental purity that is hitherto unattained.\n\nIn Tibetan Buddhism, the luminous mind (Tibetan: \"gsal ba\") is often equated with the Yogacara concept of svasaṃvedana (\"reflexive awareness\"). It is often compared to a lamp in a dark room, which in the act of illuminating objects in the room also illuminates itself.\n\nIn the canonical discourses, when the brightly shining \"citta\" is \"unstained,\" it is supremely poised for \"arahantship\", and so could be conceived as the \"womb\" of the \"arahant\", for which a synonym is \"tathagata\". The discourses do not support seeing the \"luminous mind\" as \"nirvana within\" which exists prior to liberation. While the Canon does not support the identification of the \"luminous mind\" in its raw state with nirvanic consciousness, passages could be taken to imply that it can be transformed into the latter. Upon the destruction of the fetters, according to one scholar, \"the shining nibbanic consciousness flashes out of the womb of arahantship, being without object or support, so transcending all limitations.\"\n\nBoth the Shurangama Sutra and the Lankavatara Sutra describe the \"tathagatagarbha\" (\"arahant womb\")  as \"by nature brightly shining and pure,\" and \"originally pure,\" though \"enveloped in the garments of the skandhas, dhatus and ayatanas and soiled with the dirt of attachment, hatred, delusion and false imagining.\" It is said to be \"naturally pure,\" but it appears impure as it is stained by adventitious defilements. Thus the Lankavatara Sutra identifies the luminous mind of the Canon with the tathagatagarbha. Some Gelug philosophers, in contrast to teachings in the Lankavatara Sutra, maintain that the \"purity\" of the \"tathagatagarbha\" is not because it is originally or fundamentally pure, but because mental flaws can be removed — that is, like anything else, they are not part of an individual's fundamental essence. These thinkers thus refuse to turn epistemological insight about emptiness and Buddha-nature into an essentialist metaphysics.\n\nThe Shurangama Sutra and the Lankavatara Sutra also equate the \"tathagatagarbha\" (and \"alaya-vijnana\") with nirvana, though this is concerned with the actual attainment of nirvana as opposed to nirvana as a timeless phenomenon.\n\nThe Mahayana interprets the brightly shining \"citta\" as \"bodhicitta\", the altruistic \"spirit of awakening.\" The Astasahasrika Perfection of Wisdom Sutra describes \"bodhicitta\" thus: \"That citta is no citta since it is by nature brightly shining.\" This is in accord with Anguttara Nikaya I,10 which goes from a reference to brightly shining \"citta\" to saying that even the slightest development of loving-kindness is of great benefit. This implies that loving-kindness - and the related state of compassion - is inherent within the luminous mind as a basis for its further development. The observation that the ground state of consciousness is of the nature of loving-kindness implies that empathy is innate to consciousness and exists prior to the emergence of all active mental processes.\n\n\"Luminosity\" or \"clear light\" (Tibetan \"'od gsal\", Sanskrit \"prabhāsvara\"), is central concept in Esoteric Buddhism, Tibetan Buddhism and Bon. It is the innate condition of the mind, associated with buddha-nature, the realisation of which is the goal of meditative practice. It is said to be experienced when the coarse and subtle minds dissolve during deep sleep, during orgasm, and during the death process. All systems of Tibetan Buddhism agree that the clear light nature of mind is non-conceptual and free from all mental afflictions, and that tantra is the superior method of working with this nature of the mind.\n\nThe Indian tantric commentator Indrabhuti, in his \"Jñanasiddhi,\" states that Being luminous by nature, this mind is similar to the moon’s disc. The lunar disc epitomises the knowledge (\"jñāna\") that is luminous by nature. Just as the waxing moon gradually emerges in its fullness, in the same way the mind-jewel (\"cittaratna\"), being naturally luminous, also fully emerges in its perfected state. Just as the moon becomes fully visible, once it is freed from the accidental obscurities, in the same way the mind-jewel, being pure by nature (\"prakṛti-pariśuddha\"), once separated from the stains of defilements (\"kleśa\"), appears as the perfected buddha-qualities (\"guṇa\").Luminosity is also a specific term for one of the Six Yogas of Naropa . In his commentary, Pema Karpo says that the clear light is experienced briefly by all human beings at the very first moment of death, by advanced yogic practitioners in the highest states of meditation, and unceasingly by all Buddhas.\n\nVarious Vajrayana practices involve the recognition of this aspect of mind in different situations, such as dream yoga. In this case, the practitioner trains to lucidly enter the deep sleep state. If one has the ability to remain lucid during deep sleep, one will be able to recognize the luminosity of death and gain Buddhahood. This is called the meeting of mother and child luminosities, resulting in the state of \"thukdam\" at death.\n\nIn Tibetan Buddhist Dzogchen literature, luminosity (\"'od gsal\") is associated with an aspect of the Ground termed \"spontaneous presence\" (\"Lhun grub\"), meaning a presence that is uncreated and not based on anything causally extraneous to itself. This term is often paired with 'original-purity' (\"ka dag\"), which is associated with emptiness (shunyata), and are both seen as inseparable aspects of the Ground. Other terms used to describe this aspect are dynamism or creative power (\"rtsal\") and radiance (\"dwangs\").\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5512763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5512763", "title": "Malek Bennabi", "text": "Malek Bennabi\n\nMalek Bennabi (1905–1973) () was an Algerian writer and philosopher, who wrote about human society, particularly Muslim society with a focus on the reasons behind the fall of Muslim civilization. He is mostly known for the concept of \"coloniability\" which is the inner aptitude of some societies to be colonized (Black-African particularly). According to Malek Bennabi, the lack of new ideas in Islamic thought emerged what he coined \"civilizational bankruptcy\". He argued that in order to recover its former magnificence, Islamic society had to become an environment in which individuals felt empowered. In order to satisfy his spiritual and material needs, a Muslim needed to feel that his industry and creativity would find reward.\n\nBennabi was born in Constantine, Algeria in 1905. Educated in Paris and Algiers in engineering, he later based himself in Cairo, where he spent much of his time working extensively in the fields of history, philosophy and sociology. In 1963, after returning to Algeria, he witnessed modern scientific inventions and technological creations unfold before his eyes. This spurred him to reflect on the question of culture in the early nineteenth century. His approach was simple, not parroting what had been discovered before his time, but rather, searching for what constitutes the essence of culture and the birth of civilization.\n\nFrom one of his works, \"Les Conditions de la Renaissance\" (1948), he defined culture as the mode of being and becoming of a people. This included aesthetic, ethical, pragmatic, and technical values. When these contents had been clearly defined, only then could various formulations of ideas be born. The birth of new ideas led to a dynamic society furthering the movement of vibrancy of a new civilization. In another book, \"The Question of Culture\" (1954), he said, the organisation of society, its life and movement, indeed, its deterioration and stagnation, all possessed a functional relation with the system of ideas found in that society. If that system were to change in one way or another, all other social characteristics would follow suit and adapt in the same direction. Ideas, as a whole, form an important part of the means of development in a given society. The various stages of development in such a society are indeed different forms of its intellectual developments. If one of those stages corresponds to what is called \"renaissance\", it will mean that society at that stage is enjoying a wonderful system of ideas; a system that can provide a suitable solution to each of the vital problems in that particular society. He added that ideas influence the life of a given society in two different ways; either they are factors of growth of social life, or on the contrary, the role of factors of contagion, thus rendering social growth rather difficult or even impossible.\n\nHis primary focus was on the term he coined called 'Post-Almohad Men'. Modern society had left this man hollow due to a stultifying lack of aspiration. \nHe said that in the nineteenth century, the relations among nations were based on power for the position of a nation was dependent on the number of its factories, cannons, fleets and gold reserves. However, the twentieth century introduced a new development in which ideas were held in high esteem as national and international values. This development has not been strongly felt in many underdeveloped countries, for their inferiority complex created a warped infatuation with the criteria of power that was based on material things. Muslims living in an underdeveloped country often felt that they were inferior to people living in a developed country. As a result of this inferiority, Muslims ascribed this distance to the field of objects. They assessed their situation as an abomination caused by the lack of weapons, aeroplanes and banks. Thus, their inferiority complex, based on social efficacy, would lead only to pessimism on the psychological level. On the social level, it would lead to what we have elsewhere called \"takdis\" (heaping-up). To turn this feeling into an effective driving-force, Muslims needed to ascribe their backwardness to the level of ideas, not to that of \"objects\", for the development of the new world depended increasingly on ideas and other such intellectual criteria. In underdeveloped countries, which were still within the sphere of influence of the superpowers, arms and oil revenues were no longer sufficient to support that influence. The world had, therefore, entered a stage at which most of its problems could be solved only by certain systems of ideas. Therefore, the Arabs and other Muslim countries, especially those that did not possess a great deal of material power, should give more weight to the issue of ideas.\n\nHe later criticised the Muslim society for frequently falling into an apologetic state. Muslims tended to dig up past treasures instead of seeking to progress with new ones. He said that Muslims today were in a state of disarray. Muslim countries and societies were largely imperialized by the West. This was truly not a failure of Islam, but because Muslims and those in governance abandoned the true understanding of what Islamic values connoted. In this, Bennabi again pointed out, \"after Egypt's humiliation in the Six-days war in June 1967, it is the \"ummah\"'s (global Muslim community) understanding and worldview, its stock of ideas rather than of arms and ammunition's, that needs to be renewed. Although looking back to what had been achieved in the Golden Age of Islam is still relevant, what is more important is to be able to appreciate the political values and culture of models and systems implemented by past prophets, re-interpret and apply these to our contemporary society. Enriching the society is part of dynamism in Islam. Colonisation of minds has driven Muslims towards a state of moral and psychological decay. He believed that moral paralysis resulted in intellectual paralysis.\n\nIn his book, Bases of Civilization, Malek Bennabi put his theory of social change. He argues that we can split any given civilization into three basic elements: Man, soil (raw material) and time. This, then, becomes known as the civilization equation which he puts in this simple form: civilization = Man + soil + time. Renaissance in any society, Bennabi argues, requires a synthesis between these three essential elements. In studying many civilizations throughout the written history, Bennabi concludes that every civilization starts with a moral system which usually has its roots in some religious foundation. In the light of his theory, he explained how many social movements failed by missing the importance of moral reformation while focusing mainly and for most on the practical means. An example he gave is the Algerian revolution in that thinkers and religious leaders switched their attention to the ballot boxes which they wrongly thought as if it works as a magic wand that heals all their ethical and thinking problems.\n\nWalsh Sebastian,'Killing Post-Almohad Man: Malek Bennabi, Algerian Islamism and the Search for a Liberal Governance', The Journal of North African Studies, Volume 12, 2007.\n\nBennabi and Malek. 1954. 'Vocation de l'Islam'. Islamic Studies, 24: 455–92. trans.\n\nBurgat, François and Dowell, William. 1993. 'The Islamic Movement in North Africa', Edited by: Burgat, François and Dowell, William. Austin, TX: University of Texas\n\n\nMalek Bennabi wrote more than 25 books, all his works were written between 1946 (The Quranic Phenomenon) and 1973. Yet, due to Mr.X whom he calls the imperialist enemies, many of his works are ceased from being published, some were lost or censored.\n"}
{"id": "7480765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7480765", "title": "Martine Batchelor", "text": "Martine Batchelor\n\nMartine Batchelor (born 1953), a former Jogye Buddhist nun, is the author of several books on Buddhism currently residing in France. She and her husband, Stephen Batchelor, work mostly in the United Kingdom and occasionally in the United States. In addition to writing books, she leads meditation groups with her husband that incorporate aspects of Zen, vipassanā, and Tibetan Buddhism. Batchelor also blogs frequently for the U.S.-based \"\". She studied Jogye Zen Buddhism for ten years at Songgwangsa with her former teacher Master Kusan Sunim, being ordained as a nun in 1975. Batchelor served as Kusan's interpreter on speaking tours of the United States and Europe from 1981 to 1985, the year she left monastic life, married Stephen Batchelor, and returned to Europe. There she became a member of Sharpham North Community and served as a guiding teacher at Gaia House, both of which are based in Devon, England. She has also led a Buddhist studies program at Sharpham College in Totnes, Devon. As a multilingual individual, Martine speaks English, Korean, and French and can read Chinese characters.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23139756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23139756", "title": "Michał Falkener", "text": "Michał Falkener\n\nMichael Falkener, \"Michał z Wrocławia\", \"Michał Wrocławczyk, Michael de Wratislava, Michael Vratislaviensis\" (ca. 1450 or 1460 in Wrocław – 1534) was a Polish Scholastic philosopher, astronomer, astrologer, mathematician, theologian, philologist, and professor of the Kraków Academy.\n\nMichał Falkener was born in Silesia to a family of wealthy burghers. In Latin—the language favored by medieval European scholars, and used in his works—he is sometimes referred to as \"\"Vratislaviensis\" or \"Wratislaviensis\"\" (\"the Wrocławian\") in addition to \"Michaelis de Vratislauia\" (\"Michael of Wrocław\"). In Polish he is, respectively, \"\"Wrocławczyk\" and \"Michał z Wrocławia\"\" (\"Michael of Wrocław\"). In German, the place identifier is \"of \"Breslau\"—\"von Breslau\" or \"aus Breslau\".\"\n\nFalkener entered the arts faculty of the Kraków Academy in 1478, earning his bachelor's in 1481 and defending his master's thesis in 1488. Later he lectured there on astronomy, astrology, mathematics, physics, logic, grammar, and rhetoric, as well as scholastic and Aristotlian philosophy. His students included Nicolaus Copernicus. In 1495 he entered the Collegium Minus, and in 1501 the Collegium Maius. In 1512 he joined the theological faculty, where he earned a doctorate in 1517. He twice (1499 and 1504) served as rector of the faculty of arts. For several years he headed the Bursa Niemiecka, succeeding John of Głogów.\n\nFalkener was a Thomist but an incomplete one since, in addition to Peripatetic-Thomist proofs for the existence of God, he also accepted St. Anselm's proofs. In addition to more medieval pursuits, Falkener was interested in humanism: he knew and taught on classical and humanist authors, appreciating their linguistic and artistic abilities in particular. He published and edited important introductions to and commentaries on song collections and religious texts. Falkener's first printed astrological predictions were published for the years 1494–95; 1506 saw the first edition of his \"Introductorium astronomiae Cracoviensis elucidans almanach\".\n\nHe bequeathed his personal library to the Kraków Academy.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11585565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11585565", "title": "Naked Punch Review", "text": "Naked Punch Review\n\nNaked Punch Review is a quarterly interdisciplinary review and magazine of philosophy, art, politics and poetry. Contributors have included Antonio Negri, Jacques Ranciere, Tariq Ali, Wim Wenders, Gayatri Chakravorty Spivak, Arthur Danto, Richard Shusterman, Simon Critchley, Walden Bello, Michael Taussig, Adonis, Mahmoud Darvish among others.\n\nThe magazine was founded in 2002 by a collective of young London-based thinkers called the PostAnalytic group, now dissolved. The founding editors were Qalandar Bux Memon, Lorenzo Marsili and Jacopo Moroni.\n\nThe journal initially emerged in contraposition to the dominant analytical thought in British philosophy. It advocated an approach open to the arts, literature, and continental theory, with a strong political focus.\n\nThe journal presents a strong focus on non-European philosophy, political theory, and arts. Special issues have looked at contemporary cultural production in China, Pakistan, and Latin America.\n\n"}
{"id": "41875279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41875279", "title": "Nelson Thomas Potter Jr.", "text": "Nelson Thomas Potter Jr.\n\nNelson Thomas Potter Jr. (September 22, 1939 – May 12, 2013) was a professor of philosophy at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln, Lincoln, Nebraska, United States.\n\nIn 1961, he graduated summa cum laude from Monmouth College and in 1969, he received as Ph. D. from Johns Hopkins University in philosophy. In 1965, he became a faculty member of the Department of Philosophy at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln and was chair of the department from 1980 to 1985. He was a Woodrow Wilson Fellow and a member of Phi Beta Kappa. His philosophical research focused on ethics, aesthetics, and the philosophy of Kant. He retired and became professor emeritus in 2010.\n\nHe was born and raised in Mount Morris, Illinois, the son of professional baseball player Nels Potter and Hazel (Park) Potter. In 1978, he married Kathleen Johnson and had a daughter Sophia. He was a member of Nebraskans Against the Death Penalty and the ACLU.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22487", "title": "Occult", "text": "Occult\n\nThe occult (from the Latin word \"occultus\" \"clandestine, hidden, secret\") is \"knowledge of the hidden\" or \"knowledge of the paranormal\", as opposed to facts and \"knowledge of the measurable\", usually referred to as science. The term is sometimes taken to mean knowledge that \"is meant only for certain people\" or that \"must be kept hidden\", but for most practicing occultists it is simply the study of a deeper spiritual reality that extends pure reason and the physical sciences. The terms \"esoteric\" and \"arcane\" can also be used to describe the occult, in addition to their meanings unrelated to the supernatural. \n\nThe term \"occult sciences\" was used in the 16th century to refer to astrology, alchemy, and natural magic. The term occultism emerged in 19th-century France, where it came to be associated with various French esoteric groups connected to Éliphas Lévi and Papus, and in 1875 was introduced into the English language by the esotericist Helena Blavatsky. Throughout the 20th century, the term was used idiosyncratically by a range of different authors, but by the 21st century was commonly employed – including by academic scholars of esotericism – to refer to a range of esoteric currents that developed in the mid-19th century and their descendants. \"Occultism\" is thus often used to categorise such esoteric traditions as Spiritualism, Theosophy, Anthroposophy, the Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn, and New Age.\n\nParticularly since the late twentieth century, various authors have used the occult as a substantivized adjective. In this usage, \"the occult\" is a category into which varied beliefs and practices are placed if they are considered to fit into neither religion nor science. \"The occult\" in this sense is very broad, encompassing such phenomenon as beliefs in vampires or fairies and movements like Ufology and parapsychology. In that same period, \"occult\" and \"culture\" were combined to form the neologism occulture. Initially used in the industrial music scene, it was later given scholarly applications.\n\nThe idea of \"occult sciences\" developed in the sixteenth century. The term usually encompassed three practices—astrology, alchemy, and natural magic—although sometimes various forms of divination were also included rather than being subsumed under natural magic. These were grouped together because, according to the historian of religion Wouter Hanegraaff, \"each one of them engaged in systematic investigation of nature and natural processes, in the context of theoretical frameworks that relied heavily on a belief in occult qualities, virtues or forces.\"\nAlthough there are areas of overlap between these different occult sciences, they are separate and in some cases practitioners of one would reject the others as being illegitimate.\n\nDuring the Enlightenment, the term \"occult\" increasingly came to be seen as intrinsically incompatible with the concept of \"science\". From that point on, use of the term \"occult science(s)\" implied a conscious polemic against mainstream science.\n\nIn his 1871 book \"Primitive Culture\", the anthropologist Edward Tylor used the term \"occult science\" as a synonym for \"magic\".\n\nOccult qualities are properties that have no known rational explanation; in the Middle Ages, for example, magnetism was considered an occult quality. Aether (classical element) is another such element. Newton's contemporaries severely criticized his theory that gravity was effected through \"action at a distance\", as occult.\n\nIn the English-speaking world, prominent figures in the development of occultism included Helena Blavatsky and other figures associated with her Theosophical Society, senior figures in the Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn like William Wynn Westcott and Samuel Liddell Mathers, as well as other individuals such as Paschal Beverly Randolph, Emma Hardinge Britten, Arthur Edward Waite, and—in the early twentieth century—Aleister Crowley, Dion Fortune, and Israel Regardie.\nBy the end of the nineteenth century, occultist ideas had also spread into other parts of Europe, such as Germany, Austria-Hungary, and Italy.\n\nUnlike older forms of esotericism, occultism does not reject \"scientific progress or modernity\". Lévi had stressed the need to solve the conflict between science and religion, something that he believed could be achieved by turning to what he thought was the ancient wisdom found in magic.\nThe scholar of esotericism Antoine Faivre noted that rather than outright accepting \"the triumph of scientism\", occultists sought \"an alternative solution\", trying to integrate \"scientific progress or modernity\" with \"a global vision that will serve to make the vacuousness of materialism more apparent\". Hanegraaff remarked that occultism was \"essentially an attempt to adapt esotericism\" to the \"disenchanted world\", a post-Enlightenment society in which growing scientific discovery had eradicated the \"dimension of irreducible mystery\" previously present. In doing so, he noted, occultism distanced itself from the \"traditional esotericism\" which accepted the premise of an \"enchanted\" world. According to historian of esotericism Nicholas Goodrick-Clarke, occultist groups typically seek \"proofs and demonstrations by recourse to scientific tests or terminology\". \n\nAnother feature of these occultists is that—unlike earlier esotericists—they often openly distanced themselves from Christianity, in some cases (like that of Crowley) even adopting explicitly anti-Christian stances. This reflected how pervasive the influence of secularisation had been on all areas of European society. In rejecting Christianity, these occultists sometimes turned towards pre-Christian belief systems and embraced forms of Modern Paganism, while others instead took influence from the religions of Asia, such as Hinduism and Buddhism. In various cases, certain occultists did both. Another characteristic of these occultists was the emphasis that they placed on \"the spiritual realization of the individual\", an idea that would strongly influence the twentieth-century New Age and Human Potential Movement. This spiritual realization was encouraged both through traditional Western 'occult sciences' like alchemy and ceremonial magic, but by the start of the twentieth century had also begun to include practices drawn from non-Western contexts, such as yoga.\n\nAlthough occultism is distinguished from earlier forms of esotericism, many occultists have also been involved in older esoteric currents. For instance, occultists like François-Charles Barlet and Rudolf Steiner were also theosophers, adhering to the ideas of the early modern Christian thinker Jakob Bohme, and seeking to integrate ideas from Bohmian theosophy and occultism.\n\nThe earliest known usage of the term \"occultism\" is in the French language, as \"l'occultisme\". In this form it appears in A. de Lestrange's article on \"Ésotérisme chrétien\" that was published in Jean-Baptiste Richard de Randonvilliers' \"Dictionnaire des mots nouveaux\" (\"Dictionary of new words\") in 1842. The French esotericist Éliphas Lévi then used the term in his influential book on ritual magic, \"Dogme et rituel de la haute magie\", first published in 1856. His use of the term deliberately acknowledged earlier practices that, since the Renaissance, had been termed \"occult sciences\" or \"occult philosophy\". It was from Lévi's usage of the term that it gained wider usage; according to Faivre, Lévi was \"the principal exponent of esotericism in Europe and the United States\" at that time.\n\nThe earliest use of the term \"occultism\" in the English language appears to be in \"A Few Questions to 'Hiraf'\", an 1875 article published in the American Spiritualist magazine, \"Spiritual Scientist\". The article had been written by Helena Blavatsky, a Russian émigré living in the United States who founded the religion of Theosophy.\n\nVarious twentieth-century writers on the subject used the term \"occultism\" in different ways. Some writers, such as the German philosopher Theodor W. Adorno in his \"Theses Against Occultism\", employed the term as a broad synonym for irrationality. In his 1950 book \"L'occultisme\", Robert Amadou used the term as a synonym for esotericism, an approach that the later scholar of esotericism Marco Pasi suggested left the term \"superfluous\". Unlike Amadou, other writers saw \"occultism\" and \"esotericism\" as different, albeit related, phenomena. In the 1970s, the sociologist Edward Tiryakian distinguished between \"occultism\", which he used in reference to practices, techniques, and procedures, and \"esotericism\", which he defined as the religious or philosophical belief systems on which such practices are based. This division was initially adopted by the early academic scholar of esotericism, Antoine Faivre, although he later abandoned it; it has been rejected by most scholars who study esotericism.\n\nA different division was used by the Traditionalist author René Guénon, who used \"esotericism\" to describe what he believed was the Traditionalist, inner teaching at the heart of most religions, while \"occultism\" was used pejoratively to describe new religions and movements that he disapproved of, such as Spiritualism, Theosophy, and various secret societies. Guénon's use of this terminology was adopted by later writers like Serge Hutin and Luc Benoist. As noted by Hanegraaff, Guénon's use of these terms are rooted in his Traditionalist beliefs and \"cannot be accepted as scholarly valid\".\n\nThe term \"occultism\" derives from the older term \"occult\", much as the term \"esotericism\" derives from the older term \"esoteric\". However, the historian of esotericism Wouter Hanegraaff stated that it was important to distinguish between the meanings of the term \"occult\" and \"occultism\". Occultism is not a homogenous movement, and is widely diverse.\n\nOver the course of its history, the term \"occultism\" has been used in various different ways. However, in contemporary uses, \"occultism\" commonly refers to forms of esotericism that developed in the nineteenth century and their twentieth-century derivations. In a descriptive sense, it has been used to describe forms of esotericism which developed in nineteenth-century France, especially in the Neo-Martinist environment. According to the historian of esotericism Antoine Faivre, it is with the esotericist Éliphas Lévi that \"the occultist current properly so-called\" first appears. Other prominent French esotericists involved in developing occultism included Papus, Stanislas de Guaita, Joséphin Péladan, Georges-Albert Puyou de Pouvourville, and Jean Bricaud.\n\nIn the mid-1990s, a new definition of \"occultism\" was put forth by Hanegraaff. According to Hanegraaff, the term \"occultism\" can be used not only for the nineteenth-century groups which openly self-described using that term, but can also be used in reference to \"the \"type\" of esotericism that they represent\". \nSeeking to define \"occultism\" so that the term would be suitable \"as an etic category\" for scholars, Hanegraaff devised the following definition: \"a category in the study of religions, which comprises \"all attempts by esotericists to come to terms with a disenchanted world or, alternatively, by people in general to make sense of esotericism from the perspective of a disenchanted secular world\"\". Hanegraaff noted that this etic usage of the term would be independent of emic usages of the term employed by occultists and other esotericists themselves. \n\nIn this definition, \"occultism\" covers many esoteric currents that have developed from the mid-nineteenth century onward, including Spiritualism, Theosophy, the Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn, and the New Age. Employing this etic understanding of \"occultism\", Hanegraaff argued that its development could begin to be seen in the work of the Swedish esotericist Emanuel Swedenborg and in the Mesmerist movement of the eighteenth century, although added that occultism only emerged in \"fully-developed form\" as Spiritualism, a movement that developed in the United States during the mid-nineteenth century.\n\nPasi suggested that the use of Hanegraaff's definition might cause confusion by presenting a group of nineteenth-century esotericists who called themselves \"occultists\" as just one part of a broader category of esotericists whom scholars would call \"occultists\".\n\nThe term \"occult\" has also been used as a substantivized adjective as \"the occult\", a term that has been particularly widely used among journalists and sociologists. This term was popularised by the publication of Colin Wilson's 1971 book \"The Occult\".\nThis term has been used as an \"intellectual waste-basket\" into which a wide array of beliefs and practices have been placed because they do not fit readily into the categories of religion or science. According to Hanegraaff, \"the occult\" is a category into which gets placed a range of beliefs from \"spirits or fairies to parapsychological experiments, from UFO-abductions to Oriental mysticism, from vampire legends to channeling, and so on\".\n\nThe neologism \"occulture\" was used within the industrial music scene of the late twentieth century, and was probably coined by one of its central figures, the musician and occultist Genesis P-Orridge.\nIt was in this scene that the scholar of religion Christopher Partridge encountered the term.\nPartridge used the term in an academic sense. He stated that occulture was \"the new spiritual environment in the West; the reservoir feeding new spiritual springs; the soil in which new spiritualities are growing\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45165495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45165495", "title": "Om Swami", "text": "Om Swami\n\nOm Swami is a monk and author of ten best-selling books including \"Kundalini: An Untold Story\", \"A Million Thoughts\", \"The Wellness Sense\", \"When All Is Not Well\", and \"If Truth Be Told: A Monk's Memoir\"\n\nSwami was born in North India on the twelfth night of the waxing moon in the month of Margasirsa, according to the Vedic calendar. Showing deep inclination towards spirituality from an early age, Swami studied a range of Vedic and astrological texts, eventually becoming a professional astrologer during his teen years. Quitting his job as a part-time editor for a weekly business newspaper, he left for Australia to pursue tertiary education and later acquired Australian citizenship.\n\nIn 2000, Swami graduated with a Bachelor of Business from University of Western Sydney and later, in 2002, acquired Master of Business Administration at University of Technology Sydney. Later he started a software business in Australia and expanded its operations to USA, Canada, UK and India over the next six years. He worked with various companies. Swami later moved back to India and acquired a healthcare company.\n\nOn 15 March 2010, Swami renounced his material wealth and left for his spiritual journey quietly. Heading straight to Kashi, he was initiated into the path of renunciation by a Naga saint in a little village some eighty kilometers away from Varanasi. After spending four and a half months there, Swami left for the Himalayas where he spent the next thirteen months in intense meditation in complete isolation and solitude. During the days of his intense practice, he meditated for up to 22 hours every day including straight 10-hour stretches. \n\nSwami gives his own perspective on enlightenment in his book \"If Truth Be Told\". \"Enlightenment does not mean you have to live like a pauper. It does not mean you have to subject yourself to a life of hardship and abstinence. On the contrary, to be enlightened means to live in the light of love, compassion and truthfulness\".\n\n\"If Truth Be Told: A Monk's Memoir\" is his self-written memoir, published by Harper Collins in December 2014. The book was listed as number 6 in the top 10 non fiction books in the country as reported by The Financial Express (India)\n\n"}
{"id": "24744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24744", "title": "Peter Wessel Zapffe", "text": "Peter Wessel Zapffe\n\nPeter Wessel Zapffe (December 18, 1899 – October 12, 1990) was a Norwegian metaphysician, author, lawyer and mountaineer. He is often noted for his philosophically pessimistic and fatalistic view of human existence—his system of philosophy in line with the work of the earlier philosopher Arthur Schopenhauer, by whom he was inspired—as well as his firm advocacy of antinatalism. His thoughts regarding the error of human life are presented in the essay \"The Last Messiah\" (Norwegian: \"Den sidste Messias\", 1933). This essay is a shorter version of his best-known work, the philosophical treatise \"On the Tragic\" (\"Om det tragiske\", 1941).\n\nZapffe's view is that humans are born with an overdeveloped skill (understanding, self-knowledge) which does not fit into nature's design. The human craving for justification on matters such as life and death cannot be satisfied, hence humanity has a need that nature cannot satisfy. The tragedy, following this theory, is that humans spend all their time trying not to be human. The human being, therefore, is a paradox.\n\nIn \"The Last Messiah\" Zapffe described four principal defense mechanisms that humankind uses to avoid facing this paradox:\n\n\nZapffe was a prolific mountaineer and took a very early interest in environmentalism. This form of nature conservationism sprung from the intent, not of protecting nature, but to avoid human culturalization of nature. He is the author of many humorous short stories about climbing and other adventures in nature.\n\nZapffe married twice. He remained married to his second wife Berit Zapffe until his death in 1990. Berit died in May 2008. Zapffe remained childless by choice.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7456486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7456486", "title": "Peter of Auvergne", "text": "Peter of Auvergne\n\nPeter of Auvergne (died 1304) was a French philosopher and theologian.\n\nHe was a canon of Paris; some biographers have thought that he was Bishop of Clermont, because a Bull of Boniface VIII of the year 1296 names as canon of Paris a certain Peter of Croc (Cros), already canon of Clermont; but it is more likely that they are distinct. Peter of Auvergne was in Paris in 1301, and, according to several accounts, was a pupil of Thomas Aquinas. In 1279, while the various nations of the University of Paris were quarrelling about the rectorship, Simon de Brion, papal legate, appointed Peter of Auvergne, to that office; in 1296 he was elected to it.\n\nHis published works are: \n\n\nHe has been credited with a supplement to Aquinas' \"Summa Theologica\". \n\nPeter also left numerous treatises which are either at the Bibliothèque nationale de France, or at l'Arsenal de Paris: \"Sex quodlibeta\" long discussions after the manner of St. Thomas; \"Sophisma Determinatum\"; \"Quæstiones super totam logicam veterem Arist.\"; \"Quæstiones super Perphyrium\"; \"In Arist. Metaphysicam\"; \"In libros Politicorum\"; \"De somno et vigilia\"; \"De veget. et plantis\"; \"De anima\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "62204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=62204", "title": "Philadelphia Experiment", "text": "Philadelphia Experiment\n\nThe Philadelphia Experiment is an alleged military experiment supposed to have been carried out by the U.S. Navy at the Philadelphia Naval Shipyard in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, sometime around October 28, 1943. The U.S. Navy destroyer escort was claimed to have been rendered invisible (or \"cloaked\") to enemy devices.\n\nThe story first appeared in 1955, in letters of unknown origin sent to a writer and astronomer, Morris K. Jessup. It is widely understood to be a hoax; the U.S. Navy maintains that no such experiment was ever conducted, that the details of the story contradict well-established facts about USS \"Eldridge\", and that the alleged claims do not conform to known physical laws.\n\nIn 1955, astronomer and UFO buff Morris K. Jessup, the author of the just published book \"The Case for the UFO\", about unidentified flying objects and the exotic means of propulsion they might use, received two letters from a Carlos Miguel Allende (who also identified himself as \"Carl M. Allen\" in another correspondence) who claimed to have witnessed a secret World War Two experiment at the Philadelphia Naval Shipyard. In this experiment, Allende claimed the destroyer escort was rendered invisible, teleported to New York, teleported to another dimension where it encountered aliens, and teleported through time, resulting in the death of several sailors, some of whom were fused with the ship's hull. Jessup dismissed Allende as a \"crackpot\".\n\nIn early 1957, Jessup was contacted by the Office of Naval Research (ONR) in Washington, D.C., who had received a parcel containing a paperback copy of \"The Case for the UFO\" in a manila envelope marked \"Happy Easter.\" The book had been extensively annotated in its margins, written with three different shades of pink ink, appearing to detail a correspondence among three individuals, only one of which is given a name: \"Jemi.\" The ONR labelled the other two \"Mr. A.\" and \"Mr. B.\"\n\nThe annotators referred to each other as \"Gypsies\" and discussed two different types of \"people\" living in outer space. Their text contained non-standard use of capitalization and punctuation, and detailed a lengthy discussion of the merits of various elements of Jessup's assumptions in the book. There were oblique references to the Philadelphia Experiment (one example is that \"Mr. B.\" reassures his fellow annotators who have highlighted a certain theory which Jessup advanced). Based on the handwriting style and subject matter, Jessup concluded a large part of the writing was Allende's, and others have the same conclusion, that the three styles of annotations are from the same person using three pens.\n\nThe ONR funded a small printing of 100 copies of the volume by the Texas-based Varo Manufacturing Company, which later became known as the Varo edition, with the annotations therefore known as the Varo annotations.\n\nJessup tried to publish more books on the subject of UFOs, but was unsuccessful. Losing his publisher and experiencing a downturn in his personal life led him to commit suicide in Florida on April 30, 1959.\n\nIn 1963, Vincent Gaddis published a book of Forteana, titled \"Invisible Horizons: True Mysteries of the Sea.\" In it he recounted the story of the experiment from the Varo annotations.\n\nGeorge E. Simpson and Neal R. Burger published a 1978 novel titled \"Thin Air.\" In this book, set in the present day, a Naval Investigative Service officer investigates several threads linking wartime invisibility experiments to a conspiracy involving matter transmission technology.\n\nLarge-scale popularization of the story came about in 1979 when the author Charles Berlitz, who had written a best selling book on the Bermuda Triangle, and his co-author, ufologist William L. Moore, published \"The Philadelphia Experiment: Project Invisibility,\" which purported to be a factual account. The book expanded on stories of bizarre happenings, lost unified field theories by Albert Einstein, and government coverups, all based on the Allende/Allen letters to Jessup.\n\nMoore and Berlitz devoted one of the last chapters in \"The Philadelphia Experiment: Project Invisibility\" to \"The Force Fields Of Townsend Brown,\" namely the experimenter and then-U.S. Navy technician Thomas Townsend Brown. Paul Violette's book \"Secrets of Anti-Gravity Propulsion\" also recounts some mysterious involvement of Townsend Brown.\n\nThe story was adapted into a 1984 time travel film called \"The Philadelphia Experiment\", directed by Stewart Raffill. Though only loosely based on the prior accounts of the \"Experiment\", it served to dramatize the core elements of the original story. In 1990, Alfred Bielek, a self-proclaimed former crew-member of USS \"Eldridge\" and an alleged participant in the Experiment, supported the version as it was portrayed in the film. He added details of his claims through the Internet, some of which were picked up by mainstream news outlets.\n\nThe experiment was allegedly based on an aspect of some unified field theory, a term coined by Albert Einstein to describe a class of potential theories; such theories would aim to describe — mathematically and physically — the interrelated nature of the forces of electromagnetism and gravity, in other words, uniting their respective fields into a single field.\n\nAccording to some accounts, unspecified \"researchers\" thought that some version of this field would enable using large electrical generators to bend light around an object via refraction, so that the object became completely invisible. The Navy regarded this of military value and it sponsored the experiment.\n\nAnother unattributed version of the story proposes that researchers were preparing magnetic and gravitational measurements of the seafloor to detect anomalies, supposedly based on Einstein's attempts to understand gravity. In this version, there were also related secret experiments in Nazi Germany to find anti-gravity, allegedly led by SS-Obergruppenführer Hans Kammler.\n\nThere are no reliable, attributable accounts, but in most accounts of the supposed experiment, USS \"Eldridge\" was fitted with the required equipment at the Philadelphia Naval Shipyard. Testing began in the summer of 1943, and it was supposedly successful to a limited extent. One test resulted in \"Eldridge\" being rendered nearly invisible, with some witnesses reporting a \"greenish fog\" appearing in its place. Crew members complained of severe nausea afterwards. Also, reportedly, when the ship reappeared, some sailors were embedded in the metal structures of the ship, including one sailor who ended up on a deck level below that where he began and had his hand embedded in the steel hull of the ship, as well as some sailors who went \"completely bananas.\" There is also a claim the experiment was altered after that point at the request of the Navy, limiting it to creating a stealth technology that would render USS \"Eldridge\" invisible to radar. None of these allegations have been independently substantiated.\n\nThe conjecture then claims that the equipment was not properly re-calibrated, but that in spite of this, the experiment was repeated on October 28, 1943. This time, \"Eldridge\" not only became invisible, but she disappeared from the area in a flash of blue light and teleported to Norfolk, Virginia, over away. It is claimed that \"Eldridge\" sat for some time in view of men aboard the ship , whereupon \"Eldridge\" vanished and then reappeared in Philadelphia at the site it had originally occupied. It was also said that the warship went approximately ten minutes back in time.\n\nMany versions of the tale include descriptions of serious side effects for the crew. Some crew members were said to have been physically fused to bulkheads while others suffered from mental disorders, some re-materialized inside out, and still others vanished. It is also claimed that the ship's crew may have been subjected to brainwashing, to maintain the secrecy of the experiment.\n\nThe historian Mike Dash notes that many authors who publicized the \"Philadelphia Experiment\" story after that of Jessup appeared to have conducted little or no research of their own. Through the late 1970s, for example, Allende/Allen was often described as mysterious and difficult to locate, but Goerman determined Allende/Allen's identity after only a few telephone calls. Others speculate that much of the key literature emphasizes dramatic embellishment rather than pertinent research. Berlitz's and Moore's account of the story (\"The Philadelphia Experiment: Project Invisibility\") claimed to include factual information, such as transcripts of an interview with a scientist involved in the experiment, but their work has also been criticized for plagiarising key story elements from the novel \"Thin Air\" which was published a year earlier.\n\nPersonnel at the Fourth Naval District have suggested that the alleged event was a misunderstanding of routine research during World War II at the Philadelphia Naval Shipyard. An earlier theory was that \"the foundation for the apocryphal stories arose from degaussing experiments which have the effect of making a ship undetectable or 'invisible' to magnetic mines.\" Another possible origin of the stories about levitation, teleportation and effects on human crew might be attributed to experiments with the generating plant of the destroyer , whereby a higher-frequency generator produced corona discharges, although none of the crew reported suffering effects from the experiment.\n\nObservers have argued that it is inappropriate to grant credence to an unusual story promoted by one individual, in the absence of corroborating evidence. Robert Goerman wrote in \"Fate\" magazine in 1980, that \"Carlos Allende\" / \"Carl Allen\", who is said to have corresponded with Jessup, was Carl Meredith Allen of New Kensington, Pennsylvania, who had an established history of psychiatric illness, and who may have fabricated the primary history of the experiment as a result of his mental illness. Goerman later realized that Allen was a family friend and \"a creative and imaginative loner ... sending bizarre writings and claims.\"\n\nThe USS \"Eldridge\" was not commissioned until August 27, 1943, and it remained in port in New York City until September 1943. The October experiment allegedly took place while the ship was on its first shakedown cruise in The Bahamas, although proponents of the story claim that the ship's logs might have been falsified or else still be classified.\n\nThe Office of Naval Research (ONR) stated in September 1996, \"ONR has never conducted investigations on radar invisibility, either in 1943 or at any other time.\" Pointing out that the ONR was not established until 1946, it denounces the accounts of \"The Philadelphia Experiment\" as complete \"science fiction.\"\n\nA reunion of Navy veterans who had served aboard USS \"Eldridge\" told a Philadelphia newspaper in April 1999 that their ship had never made port in Philadelphia. Further evidence discounting the Philadelphia Experiment timeline comes from USS \"Eldridge’s\" complete World War II action report, including the remarks section of the 1943 deck log, available on microfilm.\n\nResearcher Jacques Vallée describes a procedure on board , which was docked alongside the \"Eldridge\" in 1943. The operation involved the generation of a powerful electromagnetic field on board the ship in order to deperm or degauss it, with the goal of rendering the ship undetectable or \"invisible\" to magnetically fused undersea mines and torpedoes. This system was invented by a Canadian, Charles F. Goodeve, when he held the rank of commander in the Royal Canadian Naval Volunteer Reserve, and the Royal Navy and other navies used it widely during World War II. British ships of the era often included such degaussing systems built into the upper decks (the conduits are still visible on the deck of in London, for example). Degaussing is still used today. However, it has no effect on visible light or radar. Vallée speculates that accounts of USS \"Engstrom's\" degaussing might have been garbled and confabulated in subsequent retellings, and that these accounts may have influenced the story of \"The Philadelphia Experiment.\"\n\nVallée cites a veteran who served on board USS \"Engstrom\" and who suggests it might have travelled from Philadelphia to Norfolk and back again in a single day at a time when merchant ships could not: by use of the Chesapeake and Delaware Canal and Chesapeake Bay, which at the time was open only to naval vessels. Use of that channel was kept quiet: German submarines had ravaged shipping along the East Coast during Operation Drumbeat, and thus military ships unable to protect themselves were secretly moved via canals to avoid the threat. The same veteran claims to be the man that Allende witnessed \"disappearing\" at a bar. He claims that when the fight broke out, friendly barmaids whisked him out of the bar before the police arrived, because he was under age for drinking. They then covered for him by claiming that he had disappeared.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "210193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=210193", "title": "Philo's works", "text": "Philo's works\n\nThe works of Philo, a first-century Alexandrian philosopher, are mostly allegorical interpretations of the Torah (known in the Hellenic world as the Pentateuch), but also include histories and comments on philosophy. Most of these have been preserved in Greek by the Church Fathers; some survive only through an Armenian translation. \n\nMany of the titles by which texts and text groups are known are modern conventions and not inventions of Philo. \n\nPhilo's commentary on the Pentateuch is usually classified within three genres.\n\nThe \"Quaestiones\" explain the Pentateuch catechetically, in the form of questions and answers (\"Zητήματα καὶ Aύσεις, Quæstiones et Solutiones\"). Only the following fragments have been preserved: abundant passages in Armenian – possibly the full work – in explanation of Genesis and Exodus, an old Latin translation of a part of the \"Genesis,\" and fragments from the Greek text in Eusebius, in the \"Sacra Parallela,\" in the \"Catena,\" and also in Ambrosius. The explanation is confined chiefly to determining the literal sense, although Philo frequently refers to the allegorical sense as the higher.\n\nΝόμων Ἱερῶν Ἀλληγορίαι, or \"Legum Allegoriæ,\" deals, so far as it has been preserved, with selected passages from Genesis. According to Philo's original idea, the history of primal man is here considered as a symbol of the religious and moral development of the human soul. This great commentary included the following treatises:\n\nPhilo wrote a systematic work on [[Moses]] and his laws, which is usually prefaced by the treatise \"De Opificio Mundi.\" The Creation is, according to Philo, the basis for the [[Halakha|Mosaic]] legislation, which is in complete harmony with nature (\"De Opificio Mundi,\" § 1 [i. 1]). The exposition of the Law then follows in two sections. First come the biographies of the men who antedated the several written laws of the Torah, as [[Enos (biblical figure)|Enos]], [[Enoch (ancestor of Noah)|Enoch]], [[Noah]], [[Abraham]], [[Isaac]], and [[Jacob]]. These were the Patriarchs, who were the living impersonations of the active law of virtue before there were any written laws.\n\nThen the laws are discussed in detail: first the chief ten commandments (the Decalogue), and then the precepts in amplification of each law. The work is divided into the following treatises: \n\nThis exposition is more exoteric than allegorical and might have been intended for [[gentile]] audiences.\n\n\nFor a list of the lost works of Philo see Schürer, l.c. p. 534.\n\nThis work describes the mode of life and the religious festivals of a society of Jewish ascetics, who according to the author, are widely scattered over the earth, and are found especially in every [[Nome (Egypt)|nome]] in [[Egypt]]. The writer, however, confines himself to describing the [[Therapeutae]], a colony of hermits settled on the [[Lake Mareotis]] in Egypt, where each lives separately in his own dwelling. Six days of the week they spend in pious contemplation, chiefly in connection with Scripture. On the seventh day both men and women assemble together in a hall; and the leader delivers a discourse consisting of an allegorical interpretation of a Scriptural passage. The feast of the fiftieth day is especially celebrated. The ceremony begins with a frugal meal consisting of bread, salted vegetables, and water, during which a passage of Scripture is interpreted. After the meal the members of the society in turn sing religious songs of various kinds, to which the assembly answers with a refrain. The ceremony ends with a choral representation of the triumphal festival that Moses and Miriam arranged after the passage through the [[Red Sea]], the voices of the men and the women uniting in a choral symphony until the sun rises. After a common morning prayer each goes home to resume his contemplation. Such is the contemplative life (βίος θεωρητικός) led by these Θεραπευταί (\"servants of Yhwh\").\n\nThe ancient Church looked upon these \"[[Therapeutæ]]\" as disguised Christian monks. This view has found advocates even in very recent times; [[P. E. Lucius|Lucius]]' opinion particularly, that the Christian monkdom of the third century was here glorified in a Jewish disguise, was widely accepted (\"Die Therapeuten,\" 1879). But the ritual of the society, which was entirely at variance with Christianity, disproves this view. The chief ceremony especially, the choral representation of the passage through the Red Sea, has no special significance for Christianity; nor have there ever been in the Christian Church nocturnal festivals celebrated by men and women together. \n\n[[Massebieau]] (\"Revue de l'Histoire des Religions,\" 1887, xvi. 170 et seq., 284 et seq.), [[F. C. Conybeare|Conybeare]] (\"Philo About the Contemplative Life,\" Oxford, 1895), and [[Paul Wendland|Wendland]] (\"Die Therapeuten,\" etc., Leipsig, 1896) ascribe the entire work to Philo, basing their argument wholly on linguistic reasons, which seem sufficiently conclusive. But there are great dissimilarities between the fundamental conceptions of the author of the \"De Vita Contemplativa\" and those of Philo. The latter looks upon Greek culture and philosophy as allies, the former is hostile to Greek philosophy (see Siegfried in \"Protestantische Kirchenzeitung,\" 1896, No.42). He repudiates a science that numbered among Its followers the sacred band of the [[Pythagoreans]], inspired men like [[Parmenides]], [[Empedocles]], [[Zeno of Elea|Zeno]], [[Cleanthes]], [[Heraclitus]], and [[Plato]], whom Philo prized (\"Quod Omnis Probus,\" i., ii.; \"Quis Rerum Divinarum Heres Sit,\" 43; \"De Providentia,\" ii. 42, 48, etc.). He considers the [[symposium]] a detestable, common drinking-bout. This can not be explained as a Stoic diatribe; for in this case Philo would not have repeated it. And Philo would have been the last to interpret the Platonic [[Eros]] in the vulgar way in which it is explained in the \"De Vita Contemplativa,\" 7 (ii. 480), as he repeatedly uses the myth of double man allegorically in his interpretation of Scripture (\"De Opificio Mundi,\" 24; \"De Allegoriis Legum,\" ii. 24). It must furthermore be remembered that Philo in none of his other works mentions these colonies of allegorizing ascetics, in which he would have been highly interested had he known of them. But pupils of Philo may subsequently have founded near Alexandria similar colonies that endeavored to realize his ideal of a pure life triumphing over the senses and passions; and they might also have been responsible for the one-sided development of certain of the master's principles. While Philo desired to renounce the lusts of this world, he held fast to the scientific culture of Hellenism, which the author of this book denounces. Although Philo liked to withdraw from the world in order to give himself up entirely to contemplation, and bitterly regretted the lack of such repose (\"De Specialibus Legibus,\" 1 [ii. 299]), he did not abandon the work that was required of him by the welfare of his people.\n\n\n\n\n\n[[Category:Hellenistic philosophical literature]]\n[[Category:Jewish philosophy]]\n[[Category:Philosophy books]]\n[[Category:Philo]]"}
{"id": "3511966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3511966", "title": "Philosophy Talk", "text": "Philosophy Talk\n\nPhilosophy Talk is a talk radio program co-hosted by John Perry, Ken Taylor, and Joshua Landy, who are professors at Stanford University. The show is also available as a podcast, available for purchase. The program deals both with fundamental problems of philosophy and with the works of famous philosophers, especially as these relate to our contemporary, day-to-day lives. Some of the wide range of topics of past programs include terrorism, misogyny, intellectual humility, democracy, Descartes, genetic engineering, and virtue. The program is broadcast from the studios of KALW, 91.7 FM, San Francisco, California and is nationally syndicated, airing on radio stations around the country as well as on SiriusXM.\n\nThe show focuses on one topic or famous philosopher for an hour at a time, with an invited guest who is an expert on the philosopher or area of philosophy in question. Listener questions are invited and responded to. As with most philosophical discussions, each show usually provides some factual information about the topic, as well as methods and points of view that are helpful in thinking about the topic. The \"Philosophy Talk\" motto is, “the program that questions everything, except your intelligence.”\n\n"}
{"id": "24694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24694", "title": "Philosophy of law", "text": "Philosophy of law\n\nPhilosophy of law is a branch of philosophy and jurisprudence that seeks to answer basic questions about law and legal systems, such as \"What is law?\", \"What are the criteria for legal validity?\", \"What is the relationship between law and morality?\", and many other similar questions.\n\n\"The principal objective of analytical jurisprudence has traditionally been to provide an account of what distinguishes law as a system of norms from other systems of norms, such as ethical norms.\" The question that has received the most attention from philosophers of law is \"What is law?\" Several schools of thought have provided rival answers to this question, the most influential of which are:\n\nIn recent years, debates about the nature of law have become increasingly fine-grained. One important debate is within legal positivism. One school is sometimes called \"exclusive legal positivism\", and it is associated with the view that the legal validity of a norm can never depend on its moral correctness. A second school is labeled \"inclusive legal positivism\", and it is associated with the view that moral considerations \"may\" determine the legal validity of a norm, but that it is not necessary that this is the case. Some philosophers used to contend that positivism was the theory that there is \"no necessary connection\" between law and morality; but influential contemporary positivists, including Joseph Raz, John Gardner, and Leslie Green, reject that view. As Raz points out, it is a necessary truth that there are vices that a legal system cannot possibly have (for example, it cannot commit rape or murder). In fact, it is even unclear whether Hart himself held this view in its broad form, for he insisted both that to be a legal system rules must have a certain minimum content, which content overlaps with moral concerns, and that it must attain at least some degree of justice in the administration of laws.\n\nA second important debate in recent years concerns interpretivism, a view that is associated mainly with Ronald Dworkin. An interpretivist theory of law holds that legal rights and duties are determined by the best interpretation of the political practices of a particular community. Interpretation, according to Dworkin's law as integrity theory, has two dimensions. To count as an interpretation, the reading of a text must meet the criterion of \"fit\". But of those interpretations that fit, Dworkin maintains that the correct interpretation is the one that puts the political practices of the community in their best light, or makes of them \"the best that they can be\". But many writers have doubted whether there \"is\" a single best justification for the complex practices of any given community, and others have doubted whether, even if there are, they should be counted as part of the law of that community.\n\nIn addition to analytic jurisprudence, legal philosophy is also concerned with normative theories of law. \"Normative jurisprudence involves normative, evaluative, and otherwise prescriptive questions about the law.\" For example, What is the goal or purpose of law? What moral or political theories provide a foundation for the law? Three approaches have been influential in contemporary moral and political philosophy, and these approaches are reflected in normative theories of law:\nThere are many other normative approaches to the philosophy of law, including critical legal studies and libertarian theories of law.\n\nPhilosophers of law are also concerned with a variety of philosophical problems that arise in particular legal subjects, such as constitutional law, Contract law, Criminal law, and Tort law. Thus, philosophy of law addresses such diverse topics as theories of contract law, theories of criminal punishment, theories of tort liability, and the question of whether judicial review is justified.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52409913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52409913", "title": "Sarah Broadie", "text": "Sarah Broadie\n\nSarah Broadie, formerly known as Sarah Waterlow, is currently Professor of Moral Philosophy and Wardlaw Professor at the University of St Andrews. Broadie specialises in ancient philosophy, with a particular emphasis on Aristotle and Plato. Her work engages with metaphysics and both ancient and contemporary ethics. She has achieved numerous honours throughout her career as an academic philosopher. Previously Broadie has worked at the University of Edinburgh, University of Texas at Austin, Yale, Rutgers, and Princeton.\n\nBroadie's first major honour came in 1990 when she was elected as a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. In 2002, she was elected as a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh. Broadie was invited to give the Nellie Wallace Lectures at the University of Oxford in 2003. Her series was titled, 'Nature and Divinity in the Philosophies of Plato and Aristotle.' In the same year Broadie was also elected as a Fellow of the British Academy. In 2006 Broadie was elected as member of the Academia Europaea. Members of the Academia are nominated by peers and must eminent scholars in their fields. In 2012 Broadie became the 105th President of the Aristotelian Society, and delivered the Presidential Address titled 'Actual Instead.'\n\nBroadie is an Honorary Fellow of Somerville College.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57769310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57769310", "title": "Science of Spirituality", "text": "Science of Spirituality\n\nScience of Spirituality is a non‑profit organization formed under the section 501(c)(3). It was founded in the year 1979. The spiritual head of Science of Spirituality is Sant Rajinder Singh Ji Maharaj. He teaches meditation on the inner Light and Sound so people can experience for themselves the spiritual riches within. The international headquarters for Science of Spirituality (SOS), also known as \"Sawan Kirpal Ruhani Mission\" (SKRM), are based in Delhi, India, and the Western Headquarters in Lisle/Naperville, Illinois, in the United States.\n\nScience of Spirituality has over 2,800 meditation centers in around 54 countries including Europe, Asia, Africa, Australia, Oceania, and North, South, and Central America. \n\nThe new Science of Spirituality International Meditation Center, located in Lisle, Illinois was inaugurated in July 2018. The event was attended by thousands of visitors from over thirty different countries. Situated on 9 acres of land, the building, in both form and function, embodies the message of peace, community and universality. The official ribbon cutting ceremony took place in front of the “Meditator” statue on the reflecting pool at the front entrance to the Center. Helping Sant Rajinder Singh Ji Maharaj cut the gold ribbon, were representatives from the US Congress as well as mayors from the Village of Lisle and the City of Wheaton. Also present among the 60-member delegation of dignitaries, were representatives from Gensler and Skender, the architectural firm and contractors respectively, that helped bring the vision of the Center to life.\n\nScience of Spirituality focuses on global peace and human unity through meditation.\n\nScience of Spirituality (SOS) organizes and facilitates seminars, talks, classes, and programs and provides a setting where people from around the world can learn to meditate.\n\nScience of Spirituality helps people learn how to balance meditating and developing spiritually with fulfilling duties and responsibilities towards society, work, and family.\n\nAccording to Science of Spirituality, \"\"Ethical living is the stepping stone to Spirituality\" as\" Ethical living is an indispensable foundation for spiritual progress. It includes nonviolence, truthfulness, compassion, selfless service, observance of a vegetarian diet and avoidance of alcohol and recreational drugs. By transformation of one’s self, one can be a positive influence on others and make a difference in the world. \n\n\"Veggie Fest\", a vegetarian food and lifestyle festival organized by Science of Spirituality focuses on spreading the idea of vegetarianism and how it can make a difference in the quality of life \n\nScience of Spirituality also participates in humanitarian efforts globally. The mission has raised and provided humanitarian aid for victims of natural disasters worldwide by collecting and distributing medicine and clothing and building new schools and villages in affected areas.\n\nThe mission also participates in blood donation drives, free eye-operation camps, as well as free allopathic, homeopathic, and ayurvedic medical services for everyone.\n\nScience of Spirituality home page\n"}
{"id": "4411080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4411080", "title": "Sengai", "text": "Sengai\n\nThough the Rinzai sect is particularly known for its hard-to-understand teachings, Sengai tried to make them accessible to the public.\n\nOne of his famous paintings shows a circle, a square and a triangle. Sengai left the painting without a title or inscription (save for his signature); the painting is often called \"The Universe\" when referred to in English.\n\n\"My play with brush and ink is not calligraphy nor painting; yet unknowing people mistakenly think: this is calligraphy, this is painting.\" — Sengai Gibon \n\n\n"}
{"id": "52567247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52567247", "title": "Shekhinah Mountainwater", "text": "Shekhinah Mountainwater\n\nShekhinah Mountainwater (October 24, 1938 - August 11, 2007) was a musician, author, teacher, priestess of Aphrodite, and a key figure in the Goddess movement. She is well known on the west coast of the United States, but has a significant following throughout America and abroad for her music, writing, teaching, Womanrunes, Moonwheels, Goddess ritual, and spiritual and social activism.\n\nMountainwater referred to herself as a \"muse-ical mystical magical woman who loves the Goddess and women, a foremother of the Womanspirit movement, a teacher of Women's Mysteries, and a priestess of Aphrodite.\" She dedicated her life to sharing and expressing the love of the Goddess, leading women to reclaim their power and connection to one another and to the earth. Her music, poetry, tarot and learned writings are still celebrated in women's circles worldwide.\n\nMountainwater was a pioneer of what is now referred to in some circles as “Pagan music;” her unique melding of folk and spiritual, ritualistic themes eventually led to her passion for the Goddess. She began folksinging during the American folk music revival of the 1950s and 60's, and played in the same coffee houses in the Village in New York as Bob Dylan and Joni Mitchell. Mountainwater was one of the first musicians in the early 60’s folk movement to start re-tuning the guitar to simple chords, creating a unique and resonant sound that was reminiscent of the organ, or sometimes even the bag-pipe. This movement was called “Modal Music.” In Mountainwater’s case, the lower strings were often used to create a base-drone, while the others harmonized or quarreled with them. Although the bulk of her early influences were Scottish, Celtic, English, Appalachian and American folk, her work has Arabic and African under/overtones. Besides creating a distinctive style and sound, she was a prolific and gifted poet. Her literary compositions stand on their own for eloquence and social pertinence. Motivated by a passionate spirituality, she often chose mythical or occult themes for her treatments. She was able to communicate stories from the protagonist’s perspective, allowing the listener to delve into the psyche of her characters -- to feel the pain and joy of an icon personified.\n\nAs she became more active in the women’s spiritual community, her songs were often overtly political, or designed as tools for trance induction and prayer. Her creations however, remained unfailingly personal and poetic, and many remember her ironic wit and brilliance in performance. \n\nMountainwater is best known for her book \"Ariadne's Thread: A Workbook of Goddess Magic\". The work is considered a classic by many practitioners and seekers of women's spirituality and goddess worship. The text encourages women to find their own spiritual path, using the figure of the ancient goddess Ariadne as a metaphor, and elucidating the mysteries of woman-centered spirituality, while offering guidance through the cycles of life. These include the phases of the moon, the yearly nature holidays, and the aspects of divination. \"Ariadne’s Thread\" can be used as a study guide or manual; each chapter concludes with suggested exercises, meditations, and reading lists. The book will be republished in the fall of 2018 by Echo Point Books.\n\nMountainwater's songs and chants endeared her to music lovers as well as witches and practitioners of Goddess worship, magic and ritual. \"Witch's Choice, Lady with the Lamp, Cry of the Phoenix, Mischievous Fairy, Lady Mother of All, The Year is a Dancing Woman, A Solstice Story\", and \"Power Spot\" are just a few of her most popular titles.\n\nMountainwater was diagnosed with cancer in 2005, and died on August 11, 2007. Since her death, her children have endeavored to establish her intellectual estate through the home-spun company known as \"ShekhinahWorks\". In 2014, Shekhinah's birth-daughter committed to an ongoing project to collect, collate and make available her mother's works. Her projects include: republishing \"Ariadne's Thread\", publishing a digital, or Kindle copy of \"Ariadne's Thread\", creating a commemorative Facebook page, YouTube channel, and website, and a remastering and publishing of Mountainwater's original tarot deck.\n\nIn 2012, Molly Remer of Brigid's Grove found Mountainwater's Womanrunes in a copy of Sagewoman magazine from 1988. She made her own set and then began to expand on the interpretations of the symbols. With the permission of Mountainwater's estate, Remer created a card deck of the runes and wrote a book of interpretations to accompany the deck. She published the deck and book in 2014 in order to reintroduce the women's spirituality movement to these \"woman-identified\" runes.\n\n"}
{"id": "9912495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9912495", "title": "Simulation hypothesis", "text": "Simulation hypothesis\n\nThe simulation hypothesis or simulation theory proposes that all of reality, including the earth and the universe, is in fact an artificial simulation, most likely a computer simulation. Some versions rely on the development of a simulated reality, a proposed technology that would seem realistic enough to convince its inhabitants the simulation was real. The hypothesis has been a central plot device of many science fiction stories and films.\n\nThere is a long philosophical and scientific history to the underlying thesis that reality is an illusion. This skeptical hypothesis can be traced back to antiquity; for example, to the \"Butterfly Dream\" of Zhuangzi, or the Indian philosophy of Maya.\n\nIn 2003, philosopher Nick Bostrom proposed a trilemma that he called \"the simulation argument\". Despite the name, Bostrom's \"simulation argument\" does not directly argue that we live in a simulation; instead, Bostrom's trilemma argues that one of three unlikely-seeming propositions is almost certainly true:\nThe trilemma points out that a technologically mature \"posthuman\" civilization would have enormous computing power; if even a tiny percentage of them were to run \"ancestor simulations\" (that is, \"high-fidelity\" simulations of ancestral life that would be indistinguishable from reality to the simulated ancestor), the total number of simulated ancestors, or \"Sims\", in the universe (or multiverse, if it exists) would greatly exceed the total number of actual ancestors.\n\nBostrom goes on to use a type of anthropic reasoning to claim that, \"if\" the third proposition is the one of those three that is true, and almost all people with our kind of experiences live in simulations, \"then\" we are almost certainly living in a simulation.\n\nBostrom claims his argument goes beyond the classical ancient \"skeptical hypothesis\", claiming that \"...we have interesting empirical reasons to believe that a certain disjunctive claim about the world is true\", the third of the three disjunctive propositions being that we are almost certainly living in a simulation. Thus, Bostrom, and writers in agreement with Bostrom such as David Chalmers, argue there might be empirical reasons for the \"simulation hypothesis\", and that therefore the simulation hypothesis is not a skeptical hypothesis but rather a \"metaphysical hypothesis\". Bostrom states he personally sees no strong argument for which of the three trilemma propositions is the true one: \"If (1) is true, then we will almost certainly go extinct before reaching posthumanity. If (2) is true, then there must be a strong convergence among the courses of advanced civilizations so that virtually none contains any individuals who desire to run ancestor-simulations and are free to do so. If (3) is true, then we almost certainly live in a simulation. In the dark forest of our current ignorance, it seems sensible to apportion one's credence roughly evenly between (1), (2), and (3)... I note that people who hear about the simulation argument often react by saying, 'Yes, I accept the argument, and it is obvious that it is possibility #\"n\" that obtains.' But different people pick a different \"n\". Some think it obvious that (1) is true, others that (2) is true, yet others that (3) is true.\"\n\nAs a corollary to the trilemma, Bostrom states that \"Unless we are now living in a simulation, our descendants will almost certainly never run an ancestor-simulation.\"\n\nBostrom argues that, \"if\" \"the fraction of all people with our kind of experiences that are living in a simulation is very close to one\", \"then\" it follows that we probably live in a simulation. Some philosophers disagree, proposing that perhaps \"Sims\" do not have conscious experiences the same way that unsimulated humans do, or that it can otherwise be self-evident to a human that they are a human rather than a Sim. Philosopher Barry Dainton modifies Bostrom's trilemma by substituting \"neural ancestor simulations\" (ranging from literal brains in a vat, to far-future humans with induced high-fidelity hallucinations that they are their own distant ancestors) for Bostrom's \"ancestor simulations\", on the grounds that every philosophical school of thought can agree that sufficiently high-tech neural ancestor simulation experiences would be indistinguishable from non-simulated experiences. Even if high-fidelity computer Sims are never conscious, Dainton's reasoning leads to the following conclusion: either the fraction of human-level civilizations that reach a posthuman stage and are able and willing to run large numbers of neural ancestor simulations is close to zero, or we are in some kind of (possibly neural) ancestor simulation.\n\nSome scholars categorically reject or are uninterested in anthropic reasoning, dismissing it as \"merely philosophical\", unfalsifiable, or inherently unscientific.\n\nSome critics reject the block universe view of time that Bostrom implicitly accepts and propose that we could be in the first generation, such that all the simulated people that will one day be created don't yet exist.\n\nThe cosmologist Sean M. Carroll argues that the simulation hypothesis leads to a contradiction: if a civilization is capable of performing simulations, then it will likely perform many simulations, which implies that we are most likely at the lowest level of simulation (from which point one's impression will be that it is impossible to perform a simulation), which contradicts the arguer's assumption that advanced civilizations can most likely perform simulations.\n\nSome scholars accept the trilemma, and argue that the first or second of the propositions are true, and that the third proposition (the proposition that we live in a simulation) is false. Physicist Paul Davies deploys Bostrom's trilemma as part of one possible argument against a near-infinite multiverse. This argument runs as follows: if there were a near-infinite multiverse, there would be posthuman civilizations running ancestor simulations, and therefore we would come to the untenable and scientifically self-defeating conclusion that we live in a simulation; therefore, by \"reductio ad absurdum\", existing multiverse theories are likely false. (Unlike Bostrom and Chalmers, Davies (among others) considers the simulation hypothesis to be self-defeating.)\n\nSome point out that there is currently no proof of technology which would facilitate the existence of sufficiently high-fidelity ancestor simulation. Additionally, there is no proof that it is physically possible or feasible for a posthuman civilization to create such a simulation, and therefore for the present, the first proposition must be true.\nAdditionally there are proofs of limits of computation.\n\nEconomist Robin Hanson argues a self-interested high-fidelity Sim should strive to be entertaining and praiseworthy in order to avoid being turned off or being shunted into a non-conscious low-fidelity part of the simulation. Hanson additionally speculates that someone who is aware that he might be a Sim might care less about others and live more for today: \"your motivation to save for retirement, or to help the poor in Ethiopia, might be muted by realizing that in your simulation, you will never retire and there is no Ethiopia.\"\n\nA long-shot method to test one type of simulation hypothesis was proposed in 2012 in a joint paper by physicists Silas R. Beane from the University of Bonn (now at the University of Washington, Seattle), and Zohreh Davoudi and Martin J. Savage from the University of Washington, Seattle. Under the assumption of finite computational resources, the simulation of the universe would be performed by dividing the continuum space-time into a discrete set of points. In analogy with the mini-simulations that lattice-gauge theorists run today to build up nuclei from the underlying theory of strong interactions (known as Quantum chromodynamics), several observational consequences of a grid-like space-time have been studied in their work. Among proposed signatures is an anisotropy in the distribution of ultra-high-energy cosmic rays, that, if observed, would be consistent with the simulation hypothesis according to these physicists. A multitude of physical observables must be explored before any such scenario could be accepted or rejected as a theory of nature. In 2017, Campbell et al. propose several experiments aimed at testing the simulation theory in their \"On testing the simulation theory\" paper. In 2018 they started a Kickstarter campaign to fund the experiments, which reached $236,590, more than the required sum of $150,000.\n\nBesides attempting to assess whether the simulation hypothesis is true or false, philosophers have also used it to illustrate other philosophical problems, especially in metaphysics and epistemology. David Chalmers has argued that simulated beings might wonder whether their mental lives are governed by the physics of their environment, when in fact these mental lives are simulated separately (and are thus, in fact, not governed by the simulated physics). They might eventually find that their thoughts fail to be physically caused. Chalmers argues that this means that Cartesian dualism is not necessarily as problematic of a philosophical view as is commonly supposed, though he does not endorse it.\n\nSimilarly, Vincent Conitzer has used the following computer simulation scenarios to illuminate further facts—facts that do not follow logically from the physical facts—about qualia (what it is \"like\" to have specific experiences), indexicality (what time it is \"now\" and who \"I\" am), and personal identity. Imagine a person in the real world who is observing a simulated world on a screen, from the perspective of one of the simulated agents in it. The person observing knows that besides the code responsible for the physics of the simulation, there must be \"additional\" code that determines in which colors the simulation is displayed on the screen, and which agent's perspective is displayed. (These questions are related to the inverted spectrum scenario and whether there are further facts about personal identity.) That is, the person can conclude that the facts about the physics of the simulation (which are completely captured by the code governing the physics) do not fully determine her experience by themselves. But then, Conitzer argues, imagine someone who has become so engrossed in the simulation that she has \"forgotten\" that it is a simulation she is watching. Could she not still reach the same conclusion? And if so, can we not conclude the same in our own daily lives?\n\nScience fiction has highlighted themes such as virtual reality, artificial intelligence and computer gaming for more than fifty years. \"Simulacron-3\" (1964) by Daniel F. Galouye (alternative title: \"Counterfeit World\") tells the story of a virtual city developed as a computer simulation for market research purposes, in which the simulated inhabitants possess consciousness; all but one of the inhabitants are unaware of the true nature of their world. The book was made into a German made-for-TV film called “World on a Wire” (1973) directed by Rainer Werner Fassbinder. The movie \"The Thirteenth Floor\" (1999) was also loosely based on this book. \"We Can Remember It for You Wholesale\" is a short story by American writer Philip K. Dick, first published in \"The Magazine of Fantasy & Science Fiction\" in April 1966, and was the basis for \"Total Recall\" (1990 film) and \"Total Recall\" (2012 film). In \"Overdrawn at the Memory Bank\", a 1983 television movie, the main character pays to have his mind connected to a simulation. More recently, the same theme was repeated in the 1999 film \"The Matrix\", which depicted a world in which artificially intelligent robots enslaved humanity within a simulation set in the contemporary world. The 2012 play \"World of Wires\" was partially inspired by the Bostrom essay on the simulation hypothesis. In the episode \"Extremis\" (broadcast on 20 May 2017 on BBC One) of the science fiction series \"Doctor Who\", aliens called \"The Monks\" plan an invasion of Earth by running and studying a holographic simulation of Earth with conscious inhabitants. When the virtual Doctor finds out about the simulation he sends an email about the simulation to his real self so that the real Doctor can save the world. In the first season of \"Rick and Morty\", a science-fiction animated comedy, the episode \"M. Night Shaym-Aliens!\" Aliens trap the lead role (Rick) in a simulated reality in order to trick him into revealing his formula for concentrated dark matter. In the game \"Xenoblade Chronicles\", it is revealed that the whole world of the gods Bionis and Mechonis was a simulation run by Alvis, the administrative computer of a phase transition experiment facility (heavily implied to be \"Ontos\" in Xenoblade Chronicles 2) after Klaus destroyed the universe in a multi-verse experiment. \"Simulation Theory\" is also the name of the eighth album by British alternative band Muse, released on the 9th of November 2018.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7931369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7931369", "title": "Supreme Council for the Confucian Religion in Indonesia", "text": "Supreme Council for the Confucian Religion in Indonesia\n\nThe Supreme Council for the Confucian Religion in Indonesia (, MATAKIN; HYPY: yìnní kǒngiào zǒnghuì; Chinese: 印尼孔教總會) is a Confucian church established in 1955 in Indonesia, comprising the communities of practitioners of Confucianism mostly among Chinese Indonesians. Together with the Hong Kong Confucian Academy it is one of the two branches that formed after the dissolution of mainland China's Confucian Church founded by Kang Youwei in the early 20th century.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16160477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16160477", "title": "Thomas of Sutton", "text": "Thomas of Sutton\n\nThomas of Sutton (died after 1315) was an English Dominican theologian, an early Thomist.\n\nHe was ordained as deacon in 1274 by Walter Giffard, and joined the Dominicans in the 1270s; he may have been a Fellow of Merton College, Oxford before that. He became doctor of theology in 1282.\n\nHe wrote a large number of works, in some of which he opposed Duns Scotus.\n\nThe following works are among those authored by him:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3883287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3883287", "title": "Tranquillity", "text": "Tranquillity\n\nTranquillity (also spelled tranquility) is the quality or state of being tranquil; that is, calm, serene, and worry-free. The word tranquillity appears in numerous texts ranging from the religious writings of Buddhism, where the term \"passaddhi\" refers to tranquillity of the body, thoughts and consciousness on the path to enlightenment, to an assortment of policy and planning guidance documents, where interpretation of the word is typically linked to engagement with the natural environment.\n\nPsychological being in a tranquil or ‘restorative’ environment allows individuals to take respite from the periods of sustained ‘directed attention’ that characterise modern living. In developing their Attention Restoration Theory (ART), Kaplan and Kaplan proposed that recovery from cognitive overload could most effectively be achieved by engaging with natural restorative environments, that are away from daily distractions and have the extent and mystery that allows the imagination to wander, thereby enabling individuals to engage effortlessly with their surroundings. The theory works on the principle that the amount of reflection possible within such an environment depends upon the type of cognitive engagement, i.e. fascination; that the environment holds. ‘Soft fascination’ is deemed to occur when there is enough interest in the surroundings to hold attention but not so much that it compromises the ability to reflect. In essence, soft fascination, which has been taken by Herzog and Pheasant as a reasonable term to describe tranquillity, provides a pleasing level of sensory input that involves no cognitive effort other than removing oneself from an overcrowded mental space.\n\nFor many, the chance to experience tranquillity is what makes the countryside different from cities. In a survey by the United Kingdom Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA) 58% of people said that tranquillity was the most positive feature of the countryside.\n\nIn contrast to ‘soft fascination’, ‘directed attention’ requires a significant amount of cognitive effort and it is known that prolonged periods of sustained mental activity can lead to directed attention fatigue. This condition has the potential to significantly affect performance and bring about negative emotions, irritability and decreased sensitivity to interpersonal cues. As the incidence of mental illness continues to rise, there is growing evidence that exposure to natural environments can make a significant contribution to health and wellbeing. Mounting evidence shows, that exposure to nature contributes to physical and psychological wellbeing, such as the review carried out by Louv, that found evidence of ‘nature-deficit-disorder’ in children, which suggests that the importance of being able to engage with restorative environments applies across a wide age range. \nOthers report that natural tranquil surroundings have profound physiological effects on people suffering from stress. For example, Ullrich found that stress (as measured by blood pressure, muscle tension and skin conductance response), induced by showing videos of workplace injuries, improved significantly quicker following further viewing if videos included natural surroundings rather than busy traffic or shopping scenes. A recent study has demonstrated the benefits of simulating such environments for pain relief during bone marrow aspirate and biopsy.\n\nSince seeking tranquillity is an important reason why many people visit the countryside, the presence of tranquil areas helps boost rural tourism. Since rural tourism in the UK directly supports 380,000 jobs and £13.8 billion annually to the economy, and a recent survey showed that tranquillity is the main reason why 49% of visitors go are attracted to the countryside, one can conclude that tranquillity is worth 186,200 jobs and £6.76 billion a year to the economy.\n\nNatural settings that effortlessly engage our attention are typically associated with soft fascination and with the analysis of tranquillity and preference published by Herzog and Bosely (1992). In this study, the authors attempted to distinguish empirically between the constructs of tranquillity and preference as affective qualities of natural environments. Motivated by ART, from which they took tranquillity as a reasonable term to describe soft fascination, they produced definitions for each component. Tranquillity they defined as \"how much you think this setting is a quiet, peaceful place, a good place to get away from everyday life\", and preference as \"how much you like this setting for whatever reason\".\nSubjects were asked to score the following visual settings: mountains, deserts, fields / forests and waterscapes against the two target variables, tranquillity and preference, and four descriptor variables: mistiness, unstructured openness, focus and surface calmness. Tranquillity and preference were positively correlated across all settings with tranquillity scoring higher ratings in the field / forest, waterscape and mountain categories, whilst rushing water had the highest rating in the preference category.\nAnalysis of the results identified three physical features that help explain the apparent split between tranquillity and preference. These were; mistiness, unstructured openness; which refers to how open the scene is and how difficult it is to establish a sense of depth or distance, and surface calmness. Mistiness and unstructured openness tended to depress preference relative to tranquillity whilst surface calmness tended to enhance it. Herzog and Barnes conducted a follow up study in which deserts and waterscapes were included in the setting types. In 2000, Herzog and Chernick conducted further research into the tranquillity construct when they investigated the relationship between tranquillity and danger in urban and rural settings.\nThe key results that emerged from this research were that ‘setting care’, which relates to how safe we feel in a particular setting, is more salient for judgments of danger in urban settings than natural ones and that openness was a significant predictor of danger but not of tranquillity. The authors concluded therefore that tranquillity and danger should not simply be viewed as polar opposites, but like preference and tranquillity as distinct constructs.\n\nWithin tranquillity studies, much of the emphasis has been placed on understanding the role of vision in the perception of natural environments, which is probably not surprising, considering that upon first viewing a scene its configurational coherence can be established with incredible speed. Indeed, scene information can be captured in a single glance and the gist of a scene determined in as little as 100ms. The speed of processing of complex natural images was tested by Thorpe \"et al.\" using colour photographs of a wide range of animals (mammals, birds, reptiles and fish), in their natural environments, mixed with distracters that included pictures of forests, mountains, lakes, buildings and fruit. During this experiment, subjects were shown an image for 20ms and asked to determine whether it contained an animal or not. The electrophysiological brain responses obtained in this study showed that a decision could be made within 150ms of the image being seen, indicating the speed at which cognitive visual processing occurs.\nHowever, audition, and in particular the individual components that collectively comprise the soundscape, a term coined by Schafer to describe the ever-present array of sounds that constitute the sonic environment, also significantly inform the various schemata used to characterise differing landscape types. This interpretation is supported by the auditory reaction times, which are 50 to 60ms faster than that of the visual modality. It is also known that sound can alter visual perception and that under certain conditions areas of the brain involved in processing auditory information can be activated in response to visual stimuli. \nResearch conducted by Pheasant \"et al.\" has shown that when individuals make tranquillity assessments based on a uni-modal auditory or visual sensory input, they characterise the environment by drawing upon a number of key landscape and soundscape characteristics. For example, when making assessments in response to visual-only stimuli the percentage of water, flora and geological features present within a scene, positively influence how tranquil a location is perceived to be. Likewise when responding to uni-modal auditory stimuli, the perceived loudness of biological sounds positively influences the perception of tranquillity, whilst the perceived loudness of mechanical sounds have a negative effect. However, when presented with bi-modal auditory-visual stimuli the individual soundscape and landscape components alone no longer influenced the perception of tranquillity. Rather configurational coherence was provided by the percentage of natural and contextual features present within the scene and the equivalent continuous sound pressure level (LAeq).\n\nResearchers at the Bradford Centre for Sustainable Environments have developed a methodology by which the perceived tranquillity rating (TR) of an amenity area such as park, green or urban square can be measured, on a 0 - 10 scale. The method involves the assessment of average daytime noise levels Lday (usually traffic noise) and the measurement of the percentage of natural and contextual features NCF contained within the visual scene. The latter includes the percentage area in the visual scene occupied by natural features in the landscape such as vegetation, water and geological features, e.g. exposed rock outcrops, and contextual features. These contextual elements include listed buildings, religious and historic buildings, landmarks, monuments and elements of the landscape, such as traditional farm buildings, that directly contribute to the visual context of the natural environment. Lastly, the equation includes moderating factors (MF) that can influence the perception of tranquillity in either a positive, or a negative way. \nTR = 9.68 + 0.041 NCF – 0.146 Lday + MF \n\nThese moderating factors are not expected to be large and because they are relatively difficult to quantify they are the subject of ongoing research. One potentially effective solution to improving tranquillity, is to mask traffic noise or distract attention with an attractive water sound. A previous experiment has demonstrated that water generated sounds have the potential to improve the perceived tranquillity of gardens blighted by noise. A further study has demonstrated that litter has the potential to degrade an environment such that the tranquillity rating drops on average by one scale point.\n\nThis bi-modal relationship is supported by work recently carried out by SCANLab at the University of Sheffield, using fMRI neuro-imaging techniques. This study demonstrated for the first time the significant differences in effective connectivity between areas of the brain, namely the auditory cortex and the medial pre-frontal cortex, under tranquil and non-tranquil conditions. Specifically the medial pre-frontal cortex receives significantly enhanced contributions from the auditory cortex when presented with a tranquil visual scene compared with non-tranquil visual stimuli.\n\nThe first method of mapping tranquillity was developed by Simon Rendel of ASH Consulting for a Department of Transport study in 1991. This led to the production of a set of Tranquil Area maps covering England, produced by Rendel and ASH Consulting and published by the Campaign to Protect Rural England (CPRE) and the former Countryside Commission.\n\nIn these maps \"tranquil areas\" were defined as \"places sufficiently far from the visual or noise intrusion of development or traffic to be considered unspoilt by urban influences\".\n\nMore sophisticated mapping techniques are now available following work by researchers at Northumbria University, Newcastle University, and CPRE.\n\nMaps have been produced for the whole of England that show the tranquillity score of Ordnance Survey Grid derived 500mx500m squares. The tranquillity rating for these is based on 44 different factors that add to or detract from people’s feelings of tranquillity. These factors were defined following extensive public consultations.\n\nThe new methodology uses advanced modelling techniques to look at the diffusion of the impact of these factors over distance, taking into account the terrain of the land. For example, the tranquillity increases gradually the further one is from a busy road, but increases more sharply if the road is hidden in a cutting.\n\nThe mapping process was developed by Northumbria and Newcastle Universities. The dark green areas represent those with the highest composite tranquillity score; dark red areas have the lowest composite tranquillity score (i.e., are least tranquil).\n\n\n\nNote: This cartographic study showed that tranquillity is not the absence of all noise, activity and buildings. Indeed, it found that many rural activities, such as farming and hiking, and natural noises such as birdsong and cows lowing, enhance people’s experience of tranquillity.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42959802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42959802", "title": "Transformed cladistics", "text": "Transformed cladistics\n\nTransformed cladistics, also known as pattern cladistics is an epistemological approach to the cladistic method of phylogenetic inference and classification that makes no a priori assumptions about common ancestry. It was advocated by Norman Platnick, Colin Patterson, Ronald Brady and others in the 1980s, but has few modern proponents. The book, \"Foundations of Systematics and Biogeography\" by David Williams and Malte Ebach provides a thoughtful history of the origins of this point of view.\n\nThe traditional approach to cladistics, which traces back to Willi Hennig , groups together organisms based on whether or not they share derived characters or character states that are assumed to be descended from a common ancestor. Transformed cladists maintain that the assumption of common descent is uninformative and/or potentially misleading, and that therefore cladistic methods should be free from evolutionary process assumptions, and based only on parsimonious interpretation of empirical data: \n\nIn other words, pattern cladists argue that the fewer evolutionary assumptions a classification presupposes, the fewer errors creep in, and greater transparency results. They draw a distinction between patterns, which are observed, and processes, which may be inferred from patterns, but which should not be presupposed. Before the emergence of cladistics as a school, Joseph Henry Woodger criticized phylogenetic systematics on the grounds that homology by way of common ancestry is \"putting the cart before the horse, because descent from a common ancestor is something assumed, not observed. It belongs to theory, whereas morphological correspondence is observed.\" . Colin Patterson later wrote similarly:\n\nPattern cladists, like traditional cladists, think that classifications should be isomorphic to cladograms, recognizing groups based on nested patterns of synapomorphies, but they argue that the discovery of characters is not dependent on apriori considerations about common ancestry:\n\nNelson & Platnick (1981) also noted that: \"\"all\" of Hennig’s groups correspond by definition to patterns of synapomorphy. Indeed, Hennig’s trees are frequently called synapomorphy schemes. The concept of ‘patterns within patterns’ seems, therefore, an empirical generalization.” Pattern cladists hence regard synapomorphies to be patterns free of processes.\n\nA frequent (but false) accusation against pattern cladistics is that its proponents claim that systematics should be \"theory free.\" At some point in the 1960s and '70s pheneticists may have believed that, but pattern cladists are not pheneticists. Obviously, rejecting a priori evolutionary process theories is not the same thing as categorically rejecting \"theory\" in toto. Furthermore, pattern cladists do not reject post hoc evolutionary explanations for cladograms, they simply think that the evidence is independent of the explanation . Nevertheless, some philosophers with a background conciliatory towards evolutionary taxonomy continue to offer criticisms in this vein:\nOf course, the distinction between the phenomenon and its explanation was clear to Darwin: \"the grand fact in natural history of the subordination of group under group, which from its familiarity, does not always sufficiently strike us, is in my judgment fully explained.\" \n\nBrady introduced the terms \"explanandum\" for empirical patterns (the phenomenon to be explained) and \"explanans\" for process theory (the explanation), writing: \"by making our explanation into the definition of the condition [data] to be explained, we express not scientific hypothesis but belief\". In the above quote, Darwin's \"fact\" is the \"explanandum\"; his theory of descent with modification is the \"explanans\".\n\nIn this view, whatever the characters imply as the preferred hypothesis of relationships becomes, de facto, \"genealogical\" when we explain it as a result of evolution. \n\nAs noted, transformed cladistics does not deny common ancestry, rather it argues a logical precedence: theories regarding processes should only be formulated after patterns are discovered. Creationists have distorted this to argue that there are pattern cladists who are skeptical about whether evolution occurs. \n\nIn November, 1981, Patterson delivered a seminar to the Systematics Discussion Group in the American Museum of Natural History. In the talk, Patterson asked provocatively: \"Can you tell me anything about evolution, any one thing that is true?\", and remarked:\n\nA creationist in the audience taped segments of Patterson's talk to imply he was \"agnostic\" on the subject of evolution. To his dismay, Patterson soon found his name quoted in creationist publications:\n\nA notable contemporary pattern cladist is Andrew V. Z.Brower.\n\n"}
{"id": "296175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=296175", "title": "Tritone paradox", "text": "Tritone paradox\n\nThe tritone paradox is an auditory illusion in which a sequentially played pair of Shepard tones separated by an interval of a tritone, or half octave, is heard as ascending by some people and as descending by others. Different populations tend to favor one of a limited set of different spots around the chromatic circle as central to the set of \"higher\" tones. Roger Shepard in 1963 had argued that such tone pairs would be heard ambiguously as either ascending or descending. However, psychology of music researcher Diana Deutsch in 1986 discovered that when the judgments of individual listeners were considered separately, their judgments depended on the positions of the tones along the chromatic circle. For example, one listener would hear the tone pair C–F as ascending and the tone pair G–C as descending. Yet another listener would hear the tone pair C–F as descending and the tone pair G–C as ascending. Furthermore, the way these tone pairs were perceived varied depending on the listener's language or dialect.\n\nEach Shepard tone consists of a set of octave-related sinusoids, whose amplitudes are scaled by a fixed bell-shaped spectral envelope based on a log frequency scale. For example, one tone might consist of a sinusoid at 440 Hz, accompanied by sinusoid at the higher octaves (880 Hz, 1760 Hz, etc.) and lower octaves (220 Hz, 110 Hz, etc.). The other tone might consist of a 311 Hz sinusoid, again accompanied by higher and lower octaves (622 Hz, 155.5 Hz, etc.). The amplitudes of the sinusoids of both complexes are determined by the same fixed-amplitude envelope—for example, the envelope might be centered at 370 Hz and span a six-octave range.\n\nShepard predicted that the two tones would constitute a bistable figure, the auditory equivalent of the Necker cube, that could be heard ascending or descending, but never both at the same time. Diana Deutsch later found that perception of which tone was higher depended on the absolute frequencies involved: an individual will usually find the same tone to be higher, and this is determined by the tones' absolute pitches. This is consistently done by a large portion of the population, despite the fact that responding to different tones in different ways must involve the ability to hear absolute pitch, which was thought to be extremely rare. This finding has been used to argue that latent absolute-pitch ability is present in a large proportion of the population. In addition, Deutsch found that subjects from the south of England and from California resolved the ambiguity the opposite way. Also, Deutsch, Henthorn and Dolson found that native speakers of Vietnamese, a tonal language, heard the tritone paradox differently from Californians who were native speakers of English.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37853284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37853284", "title": "Victory Party (Egypt)", "text": "Victory Party (Egypt)\n\nThe Victory Party is a Sufi political party in Egypt.\n"}
{"id": "8143204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8143204", "title": "Viggo Stoltenberg-Hansen", "text": "Viggo Stoltenberg-Hansen\n\nViggo Stoltenberg-Hansen, born 1942, professor at Uppsala University, Department of Mathematics, is a Swedish mathematician/logician and expert on domain theory and recursion theory (also known as computability theory). Viggo received his PhD in Mathematics (titled \"On Priority Arguments In Friedberg Theories\") from University of Toronto in 1973, supervised by Douglas Clarke.\n\nViggo Stoltenberg-Hansen and John Tucker developed in the early 1980s a general method of domain representations of topological algebras.\n\nViggo is the main author of the textbook \"Mathematical Theory of Domains\", Cambridge University Press, 1994 (coauthored by I. Lindström and E. Griffor), and also of a set of Marktoberdorf summer school lecture notes on domain theory.\n\nViggo Stoltenberg-Hansen and John Tucker made a thorough analysis of the computability associated to \"effective algebras\" and continuity of homomorphisms between such.\n\n"}
{"id": "18470777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18470777", "title": "Walter Carnielli", "text": "Walter Carnielli\n\nWalter Alexandre Carnielli (born 11 January 1952 in Campinas, Brazil) is a Brazilian mathematician, logician, and philosopher, full professor of Logic at the State University of Campinas (UNICAMP). With a Bachelor and a Ms.C. degree in mathematics at the State University of Campinas in Campinas he obtained his Ph.D. in 1984 in the same university under the supervision of Newton da Costa and subsequently stayed as a PostDoc at the University of California at Berkeley as a Research Fellow, following an invitation by Leon Henkin.\n\nCarnielli contributed to the proof theory and semantics of many-valued logics and paraconsistent logics. His tableau method for many-valued logics generalized all previous treatments of the subject [W. A. Carnielli. Systematization of the finite many-valued logics through the method of tableaux. The Journal of Symbolic Logic 52\n(2), 1987, pp. 73–493]. His proposal of the possible-translations semantics (a new semantical interpretation for paraconsistent logics) contributed to a revival in the philosophial interpretation of paraconsistent logics , [W. A. Carnielli (with M. E. Coniglio and J. Marcos). Logics of Formal Inconsistency. In: Handbook of Philosophical Logic, vol. 14, pp. 15–107. Eds.: D. Gabbay; F. Guenthner. Springer, 2007].\n\nThe logics of formal inconsistency which systematize a large class of paraconsistent logics opened the way to the application of paraconsistency to computer science and to new philosophical investigations on paraconsistency.\n\nHe also published on finite and infinite combinatorics, and developed (with his collaborators A. M. Sette and P. A. Veloso) the modulated logics, a new kind of logics which allows the formalization of qualitative reasoning by means of special generalized quantifiers. His research also includes model theory, non-classical logics and foundations of quantum computation and combinations of logics.\n\nCarnielli served as a Director for the Centre for Logic, Epistemology and the History of Science at UNICAMP for three terms, and served as President of the Brazilian Logic Society. He was distinguished with an Alexander von Humboldt Grant for long term research stays in Germany, and served as en editor and/or a member of editorial boards of major journals, such as Studia Logica, Logic and Logical Philosophy, Journal of Applied Logic,\nCLE e-Prints, Reports on Mathematical Logic and \"Journal of Applied Non-Classical Logics\". He is a recipient of the Telesio-Galilei Gold Medal Award 2012 in Philosophy and Mathematics.\n\nMathematical Logic Quarterly\" Volume 18, Issue 1, 2008, pages\n123-151.\n\nQuarterly\" Volume 55, Issue 5, 2009, pages 515-534.\n\n\n\n"}
