{"id": "40101639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40101639", "title": "51st government of Turkey", "text": "51st government of Turkey\n\nThe 51st government of Turkey (5 October 1995 – 30 October 1995) was a minority government led by Tansu Çiller.\n\nBoth the 49th and 50th governments were True Path Party and Social Democratic Populist Party (SHP) coalition governments, but after SHP merged with Republican People's Party(CHP) and Deniz Baykal was elected as the new leader of CHP, CHP stipulated an earlier date for the scheduled elections, and the coalition came to end.\n\nThe government couldn't receive the vote of confidence on 13 October 1995. For the next 17 days, it served as a caretaker government.\n"}
{"id": "35733852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35733852", "title": "Action Saybusch", "text": "Action Saybusch\n\nAction Saybusch (, ) was the mass expulsion of some 18,000–20,000 ethnic Poles from the territory of Żywiec County in Polish Silesia, conducted by the Wehrmacht and German police during the German occupation of Poland in World War II. The main purpose of the forcible displacement of Polish nationals was to create space for ethnically German colonists from across Eastern Europe, after the annexation of western Poland into the Third Reich in 1939.\n\nThe Action was part of the Adolf Hitler's plan known as Lebensraum which involved Germanization of all Polish areas west of the territory allocated to the General Government. The name of the Action came from the German name of the city of Żywiec – Saybusch. Displacements of the Poles from Żywiec and surrounding villages and towns was led by the occupation authorities under \"\" Fritz Arlt, who replaced Bruno Müller from RKF.\n\n\"Aktion Saybusch\" lasted from September to December 1940, with some 3,200 Volksdeutsche brought in \"Heim ins Reich\" (Home into the Empire) from Romanian Bukovina. The process of expulsions continued thereafter. In total, between 1940 and 1944, around 50,000 Poles were forcibly removed from the region and replaced with about 4,000 settlers from Eastern Galicia and Volhynia who were given new latifundia. Before the German attack on the Soviet Union, their transfer was agreed upon by both invaders at the Gestapo–NKVD Conferences. The expulsions from eastern Silesia were the direct responsibility of the \"\" Erich von dem Bach-Zelewski, who was also responsible for instigating them.\n\nIn December 1939, the German police conducted a population census in the region. Over 99 percent of the locals declared Polish nationality. Analysis of the census figures set the stage for the mass deportations across Upper Silesia, which was decided in July 1940. Some believe that Polish Jews were not a part of this \"Aktion\". On the other hand, the Holocaust historian Christopher R. Browning wrote that Jews had to have been an integral part of it. The local Germans \"had not diligently carried out the identification and seizure of Polish activists and intelligentsia and thus were not eager to report the actual number of Jews deported.\" For example, the Jewish families from the of Żywiec were transported to a transit ghetto and labour camp in Sucha Beskidzka in the spring of 1941, and in 1942 sent aboard Holocaust trains to Auschwitz. Everything was carefully prepared by the German occupation authorities, with schedules for the Polish train transports, food rations, and a group of Gestapo functionaries who spoke Polish. The cost of the operation estimated at about 300,000 Marks was to be paid by the captives themselves. The Action began simultaneously at different locations on September 22, 1940 at 5 in the morning. The police and army units surrounded Polish settlements and entered individual homes ordering farmers to get out within 20 minutes. Eye-witness Helena Szatanikowa remarked that all instructions came from a warrant printed in Polish. Residents were requested to turn in all money and valuables. They were allowed to take with them only clothing and food, leaving behind everything else including livestock. They were marched and trucked to the so-called transit points in nearby towns of Żywiec, Rajcza, Sucha Beskidzka, Końskie and others. Meanwhile, the new Germanic settlers were already waiting at the distribution centers set up in Bogumin and Cieszyn. The Poles were subjected to selection, and separated into those \"racially valuable\" (for preferential treatment) and the rest, including women and children. Groups of young men were gathered for slave labor in Germany. According to German law all captives were to be supplied with necessities for 14 days; however, in practice they were stripped of the remnants of their own belongings in the process of luggage and body searches. \nThe assembly points at railway stations held each time about 1,000 Polish people; who were split into groups of 40 in line with already numbered rail cars. Each transport was usually sent separately, first to a railway junction in Łódź (for further selection), and from there, to previously chosen locations across the General Government (\"Generalgouvernement\"). Poles were delivered to towns and villages in the vicinity of Biłgoraj, Wadowice, Radzymin, Łuków, and to the Lublin and Kielce governorates (see, the Lublin Reservation organized since October 1939), where they were dropped off alone without any help. Moreover, the Germans had warned the local population that the arriving deportees were criminals, thus further worsening their plight. They were met with fear and only reluctant acceptance at their destinations. Many died during transport. Others were forced to beg. The whole displacement action was conducted by the \"Polizei-Battalion No. 82\" (under Kegel) and \"Battalion No. 83\" (under Eugen Seim, stationed in Jeleśnia) with approximately 500 soldiers as well as numerous SS, RKF and NSDAP functionaries including \"Katowice\" Gestapo officers.\nAbandoned Polish houses were cleaned and washed by forced laborers, mostly Jewish captives and some remaining Poles, who were later employed by the new farm-owners. Sheds deemed unsanitary were torn down. The department prepared swastika flags and portraits of Hitler to be placed at farms declared ready for occupation by the new Germans. Despite the Nazi propaganda campaign painting a rosy picture of their opulent future, the new hosts were not given the best of lands, which were reserved for the \"Reichsdeutsche\" who had served in the Wehrmacht. Many settlers were disappointed with the simple wooden cottages they were told to move into, and poor quality farmland. The \"Wartheland\" \"Gaue\" officials on their part, lamented the newcomers' cultural backwardness in comparison with most Poles, and their inability to speak proper German. The new settlers were put under permanent police surveillance.\n\"Aktion Saybusch\" officially ended on December 12, 1940, although the last transport (out of the total number of 19) was dispatched as late as January 31, 1941. On top of the 18,000–20,000 deportees sent across the border, some 8,000 Poles employed in local industries were moved away from their homes. It was a pilot project meant to be followed by similar actions, but in March 1941 \"SS-Obergruppenführer\" Hans Frank, Governor of General Government, objected to further overcrowding of his district. As a result, from 1942 on, Polish deportees were placed with other farmers in the poorest villages within the same territory of Silesia (\"Interne Umsiedlung\"), or sent to one of the new 23 camps called \"Polenlager\", created especially for that purpose. By the end of war, about 50,000 Polish nationals were displaced from Żywiec and the surrounding area, nearly one-third of its population. In \"Polenlagers\", further selections were carried out, including racial abductions of children from their parents, who after verification were sent to \"Lebensborn\" centers for Germanization. The displaced Polish farmers who returned to their homes in 1945 often found buildings razed or destroyed and everything else stolen by the settlers escaping the Soviet advance.\n\nIn the early 1990s, Action Saybusch was investigated by the Commission for the Prosecution of Crimes Against the Polish Nation at the Institute of National Remembrance in Katowice followed by a formal inquiry initiated in 1998 by Senator Władysław Bułka. After a series of announcements in the press, some 1,000 persons contacted IPN with personally collected data and supplementary materials, revealing the identities of many displaced families. According to Ewa Koj from IPN most living victims had already been interviewed. The investigation was limited by their advancing age and had to be discontinued on legal grounds. However, it was followed by a broad exhibit of documents and photographs collected in the process, and presented in many regional cities and towns including Katowice, Żywiec, Bielsko-Biała and others. The Nazi perpetrators of ethnic cleansing had already been sentenced during the Nuremberg trials. The IPN announced that discussing matters of war compensation was not within their mandate, which some living victims found disappointing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9268185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9268185", "title": "Anti-Corruption Resource Centre", "text": "Anti-Corruption Resource Centre\n\nThe Anti-Corruption Resource Centre (U4) was established in 2002 and is targeted at donor\npractitioners who wish to effectively address corruption\nchallenges in their work. U4 offers focused\nresearch products and a rich array of online\nresources. \n\nThe Anti-Corruption Resource Centre is based at the Chr. Michelsen Institute in Bergen, Norway. The Resource Centre works in collaboration with Transparency International, Tiri and many other international organisations and NGOs.\n\nThe international development agencies of the following countries are the current U4 Partners:\n\n\n\"[The Resource centre was previously referred to as the 'Utstein Anti-Corruption Resource Centre', as it originally stems from the now defunct 'Utstein' collaboration started in 1999 between the ministers of international development of the UK, Norway, The Netherlands, and Germany]\"\n\n\nAn updated collection of direct links to the most\nrelevant anti-corruption readings for\npractitioners. This includes brief descriptions of more than 300 titles.\n\nMore than 100 previous expert answers to U4 Partner staff's corruption-related questions are\navailable publicly online for anyone to\nread, and more new answers are added regularly. This service is oberated by Transparency International’s\nsecretariat in Berlin.\n\n"}
{"id": "1979553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979553", "title": "Black theology", "text": "Black theology\n\nBlack theology, or Black liberation theology, refers to a theological perspective which originated among African American seminarians and scholars, and in some black churches in the United States and later in other parts of the world. It contextualizes Christianity in an attempt to help those of African descent overcome oppression. It especially focuses on the injustices committed against African Americans and black South Africans during American segregation and apartheid, respectively.\n\nBlack theology seeks to liberate non-white people from multiple forms of political, social, economic, and religious subjugation and views Christian theology as a theology of liberation—\"a rational study of the being of God in the world in light of the existential situation of an oppressed community, relating the forces of liberation to the essence of the Gospel, which is Jesus Christ,\" writes James H. Cone, one of the original advocates of the perspective. Black theology mixes Christianity with questions of civil rights, particularly raised by the Black Power movement and the Black Consciousness Movement. Further, Black theology has led the way and contributed to the discussion, and conclusion, that all theology is contextual - even what is known as systematic theology.\n\nModern American origins of contemporary Black theology can be traced to July 31, 1966, when an ad hoc group of 51 concerned clergy, calling themselves the National Committee of Negro Churchmen (NCNC), bought a full page ad in \"The New York Times\" to publish their \"Black Power Statement,\" which proposed a more aggressive approach to combating racism using the Bible for inspiration.\n\nIn American history, ideas of race and slavery were supported by many Christians from particular readings of the Bible. The Southern Baptist Convention supported slavery and slaveholders; it was not until June 20, 1995 that the formal Declaration of Repentance was adopted. This non-binding resolution declared that racism, in all its forms, is deplorable\" and \"lamented on a national scale and is also repudiated in history as an act of evil from which a continued bitter harvest unfortunately is reaped.\" The convention offered an apology for \"condoning and/or perpetuating individual and systemic racism in our lifetime\" and repentance for \"racism of which many have been guilty, whether consciously or unconsciously. Christianity is associated with racism. Yet Christ; the forerunner of christian behavior professed individuality and in living testimony is demonized for the pursuit of individually targeted sanctuary. Therefore, there must then be a dialogue regarding the implications of racism in today's society and to what extent historical, intellectual, social factors affect the plight of the Black community. Cone relates that, once upon a time it was acceptable to lynch a Black man by hanging him from the tree; but today's economics destroy him by crowding many into a ghetto and letting filth and despair (created by themselves) put final touch on a coveted death.\"\n\nBlack theology deals primarily with the African-American community to make Christianity real for Blacks. It explains Christianity as a matter of liberation here and now, rather than in an afterlife. The goal of Black theology is not for special treatment. Instead, \"All Black theologians are asking for is for freedom and justice. No more, and no less. In asking for this, the Black theologians, turn to scripture as the sanction for their demand. The Psalmist writes for instance, \"If God is going to see righteousness established in the land, he himself must be particularly active as \"the helper of the fatherless\" (Psalm 10:14) to \"deliver the needy when he crieth; and the poor that hath no helper\" (Psalm 72:12).\n\nBlack theology would eventually develop outside of the United States to the United Kingdom and parts of Africa, especially addressing apartheid in South Africa.\n\nJames Cone first addressed this theology after Malcolm X's proclamation in the 1950s against Christianity being taught as \"a white man's religion\". According to Black religion expert Jonathan Walton:\nJames Cone believed that the New Testament revealed Jesus as one who identified with those suffering under oppression, the socially marginalized and the cultural outcasts. And since the socially constructed categories of race in America (i.e., whiteness and blackness) had come to culturally signify dominance (whiteness) and oppression (blackness), from a theological perspective, Cone argued that Jesus reveals himself as black in order to disrupt and dismantle white oppression.\n\nBlack theology contends that dominant cultures have corrupted Christianity, and the result is a mainstream faith-based empire that serves its own interests, not God's. Black theology asks whose side should God be on—the side of the oppressed or the side of the oppressors. If God values justice over victimization, then God desires that all oppressed people should be liberated. According to Cone, if God is not just, if God does not desire justice, then God needs to be done away with. Liberation from a false god who privileges whites, and the realization of an alternative and true God who desires the empowerment of the oppressed through self-definition, self-affirmation, and self-determination is the core of Black theology.\n\nIntricate and largely philosophical views of God are largely ignored in preference for the concerns of the oppressed. The Old Testament God of Moses freeing the ancient Hebrews from Egyptian rulers was the central theme of African American popular religion, as well as abolitionists like Harriet Tubman. White Christian concepts taught to black persons that they are to be disregarded or ignored. The aspects of God's person, his power and authority, as well as \"subtle indications of God's white maleness\" are said not to relate to the black experience, to the extent of sometimes being antagonistic. While trinitarian theology is a big concern, Jesus is still considered to be God. The focus is given to God's actions and his delivering of the oppressed because of his righteousness. Immanence is stressed over transcendence, and as a result God is seen to be \"in flux\" or \"always changing\".\n\nLikewise, Cone based much of his liberationist theology on God's deliverance of Israel from Egypt in the Book of Exodus. He compared the United States to Egypt, predicting that oppressed people will soon be led to a promised land. For Cone, the theme of Yahweh's concern was for \"the lack of social, economic, and political justice for those who are poor and unwanted in society.\" Cone also says that the same God is working for the oppressed Blacks of the 20th century, and that \"God is helping oppressed Blacks and has identified with them, God Himself is spoken of as 'Black'.\"\n\nCone saw Christ from the aspect of oppression and liberation. Cone uses the Gospel of Luke to illustrate this point: \"the blind receive their sight, the lame walk, the lepers are cleansed, the deaf hear, the dead are raised up, and the poor have the good news preached to them\" (Luke 7:22). \"'In Christ,' Cone argues, 'God enters human affairs and takes sides with the oppressed. Their suffering becomes his; their despair, divine despair.'\" Cone also argues that, \"We cannot solve ethical questions of the twentieth century by looking at what Jesus did in the first. Our choices are not the same as his. Being Christians does not mean following 'in his steps.'\"\n\nCone objected to the persistent portrayal of Jesus as White. \"It's very important because you've got a lot of white images of Christ. In reality, Christ was not white, not European. That's important to the psychic and to the spiritual consciousness of Black people who live in a ghetto and in a white society in which their lord and savior looks just like people who victimize them. God is whatever color God needs to be in order to let people know they're not nobodies, they're somebodies.\" \n\nBecause of the differences in thought between the Black and White community, most Black religious leaders attempt to make their services more accessible to other African-Americans, who must identify with the faith in order to accept it. Another notable difference is Cone's suggestion as to what must occur if there is not reconciliation among the White community. He states, \"Whether the American system is beyond redemption we will have to wait and see. But we can be certain that Black patience has run out, and unless White America responds positively to the theory and activity of Black Power, then a bloody, protracted civil war is inevitable.\"\n\nBlack theology is considered by some to be a form of racism, as some followers associate liberation with retribution and angerweasel words. Some suggest that this is a response to the discomfort some White Americans feel with the ideas of Black empowerment and threat of being dealt with unapologetically as equals. It should also be noted that Christ forgave his oppressors and there is no focus on retribution for past wrong in the writings of Cone and other leaders.\n\nAnthony Bradley of the \"Christian Post\" interprets that the language of \"economic parity\" and references to \"mal-distribution\" as nothing more than channeling the views of Karl Marx. He believes James Cone and Cornel West have worked to incorporate Marxist thought into the Black church, forming an ethical framework predicated on a system of oppressor class versus a victim much like Marxism.\n\nTrinity United Church of Christ, Chicago has been cited in the press and by Cone as the best example of a church formally founded on the vision of Black theology. The 2008 Jeremiah Wright controversy, over alleged racism and anti-Americanism in Wright's sermons and statements, caused then-Senator Barack Obama to distance himself from his former pastor.\n\nStanley Kurtz of the National Review wrote about the perceived differences with 'conventional American Christianity'. He quoted Black theologian Obery M. Hendricks Jr.: \"According to Hendricks, 'many good church-going folk have been deluded into behaving like modern-day Pharisees and Sadducees when they think they're really being good Christians.' Unwittingly, Hendricks says, these apparent Christians have actually become 'like the false prophets of Ba'al.'\" Kurtz also quotes the Rev. Jeremiah Wright: \"How do I tell my children about the African Jesus who is not the guy they see in the picture of the blond-haired, blue-eyed guy in their Bible or the figment of white supremacists imagination that they see in Mel Gibson's movies?\"\n\nBlack theology was popularized in southern Africa in the early 1970s by Basil Moore, a Methodist theologian in South Africa. It helped to give rise to, and developed in parallel with, the Black Consciousness Movement. Black theology was particularly influential in South Africa and Namibia for motivating resistance to apartheid. This movement would also see be closely related to the South African Kairos Document.\n\nSouthern African black theologians include Barney Pityana, Allan Boesak, Itumeleng Mosala and Zephania Kameeta.\n\nIn the African continent, black theology is often distinguished from African theology.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, Robert Beckford is a prominent black theology practitioner. He was the first in the UK to develop and teach a course on Black theology at an academic level.\n\nAlthough it is not limited to the British context, an academic journal which has been a key outlet for the discourse around Black theology in Britain has been \"Black Theology\", edited by Anthony G. Reddie.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22200207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22200207", "title": "Canadian Civil Liberties Education Trust", "text": "Canadian Civil Liberties Education Trust\n\nThe Canadian Civil Liberties Education Trust (CCLET) is a charitable organization focused on the promotion and dissemination of knowledge and understanding amongst the general public of the rights, liberties and duties of all citizens in democracies. CCLET was established in 1967 as the research and educational arm of the Canadian Civil Liberties Association. Its headquarters are in Toronto, Ontario.\n\nCCLET provides free \"Civil Liberties in the Schools\" and \"Teaching Civil Liberties\" programmes across Ontario. Supported by a grant from the Law Foundation of Ontario, their programs present engaging and interactive civil liberties workshops and seminars in schools and faculties of education throughout Ontario.\n\nUsing the Socratic Paedogogical method, students are engaged in discussions about rights, civil liberties, duties of citizens, the \"Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms\", and issues and controversies related to democratic societies. These projects help to develop the habits of democracy in young people through critical thinking, balancing of conflicting rights and freedoms, and the support of diverse opinions and views.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55676016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55676016", "title": "Compass Inc.", "text": "Compass Inc.\n\nCompass is an American real estate technology company. Founded in 2012, the company is headquartered in New York City. The company provides software to real estate agents to eliminate busy work and help them become more efficient. Compass is said to be the first company to have built a proprietary mobile app for real estate agents. Compass has a current valuation upwards of US$4.4 billion.\n\nThe company operates in 17 U.S. markets including New York, Boston, Washington D.C., South Florida, San Francisco, Chicago, Los Angeles, Aspen, The Hamptons, Santa Barbara and Newport Beach.\n\nThe company was founded by entrepreneurs Ori Allon and Robert Reffkin. Allon had previously sold companies to Google and Twitter. Reffkin previously served as the chief of staff to the president of Goldman Sachs and worked in The White House.\n\nCompass has raised a total of $1.2 billion from investors such as Founder's Fund, Wellington Management and Institutional Venture Partners, Fidelity Investments and Softbank Vision Fund. Compass was named Mid-Sized Business of the Year by the Manhattan Chamber of Commerce in 2015.\n\nCompass was originally founded as Urban Compass in late 2012. The company raised $8mm of seed fundraising from Founder's Fund, Thrive Capital, Goldman Sachs as well as several individual investors including American Express CEO Kenneth Chenault, and ZocDoc CEO Cyrus Massoumi. The initial business model employed full-time, salaried brokers, who users of the platform could schedule appointments online with after searching for listings on the company's desktop or mobile app. The company publicly debuted at an event in May 2013, where then-New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg helped celebrate the launch. The company initially focused only on rentals.\n\nIn September 2013, the company raised a Series A financing round of $20M, at a reported valuation of $150M.\nInvestors including Advance Publications, the CEO of Salesforce.com, Marc Benioff, and .406 Ventures all invested in Compass at this stage.\n\nAt the beginning of 2014, Compass announced they would enter the real estate sales business and a change in their overall business model, contracting independent real estate agents and taking a cut of the commission. In July 2014, Compass raised a Series B financing round of $40M, this time at a valuation of $360M according to Bloomberg\n. Shortly following, Compass signed a lease on 25,000 square feet at 90 5th Avenue.\nThe firm also hired Leonard Steinberg, a top-ranked real estate broker, from Douglas Elliman to serve as its president. Leonard Steinberg was named the agent with the highest sales volume in 2016 by Real Trends. The company reported having 125 agents and 70 staff at this time.\n\nIn September 2015, Compass raised a Series C financing round of $50M at a reported valuation of $800M. The investment was led by Institutional Venture Partners. The company also opened offices in Brooklyn, South Florida, Boston and The Hamptons.\n\nIn August 2016, Compass raised a Series D financing round of $75M, led by Wellington Management, which brought its valuation to north of $1B. The company also launched a new mobile app that offers real-time data on the real estate market. Earlier in the year, the company expanded into Aspen with the acquisition of Shane Aspen Real Estate as well as Los Angeles. Reports also cited Compass’ expansion into Santa Barbara and San Francisco as well as several other smaller sub-markets of their other major metro areas.\n\nThroughout 2017, Compass hired several new executives to its leadership team, including Madan Nagaldinne, a former Facebook and Amazon executive as Chief People Officer, and Craig Anderson, a former Flywheel executive as chief financial officer.\n\nIn November 2017, Compass announced $100M Series E Investment by Fidelity Investments, followed by Dec 7th, 2017 announcement of $450M investment by Softbank Vision Fund, later bringing the company valuation to $2.2B. Compass also expanded into Chicago in late November, signing the city's number one real estate team. Additionally, Compass announced aggressive expansion plans to 9 more cities.\n\nLess than a year later in September 2018, Compass announced a $400M Series F at a valuation to $4.4B. This series was led by Softbank Vision Fund and Qatar Investment Authority, other investors included, Wellington Management, Institutional Venture Partners and Fidelity Investments. Compass also announced plans to use these funds to enter international markets and double down on creating world leading technology. Compass plans to launch Nashville, Houston, and Denver before the end of 2018.\n"}
{"id": "424724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=424724", "title": "Coordinating Committee for Multilateral Export Controls", "text": "Coordinating Committee for Multilateral Export Controls\n\nThe Coordinating Committee for Multilateral Export Controls (CoCom) was established by Western bloc powers in the first five years after the end of World War II, during the Cold War, to put an arms embargo on Comecon countries. CoCom ceased to function on March 31, 1994, and the then-current control list of embargoed goods was retained by the member nations until the successor, the Wassenaar Arrangement, was established.\n\nCoCom had 17 member states:\n\nIn the United States, CoCom compliance was implemented in the 1960s via the Arms Export Control Act (AECA) and the State Department's regulatory supervision on AECA via International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR), which are still in effect.\n\nToshiba Machine Company of Japan and Kongsberg Group of Norway supplied eight computer-guided propeller milling machines to the Soviet Union between 1982 and 1984, an action that violated the CoCom regulations. The United States' position is that this greatly improved the ability of Soviet submarines to evade detection. Congress moved to sanction Toshiba, and ban imports of its products into the United States.\n\nIn GPS technology, the term \"COCOM Limits\" also refers to a limit placed on GPS tracking devices that disables tracking when the device calculates that it is moving faster than at an altitude higher than . This was intended to prevent the use of GPS in intercontinental ballistic missile-like applications.\n\nSome manufacturers apply this limit only when both speed and altitude limits are reached, while other manufacturers disable tracking when either limit is reached. In the latter case, this causes some devices to refuse to operate in very high altitude balloons.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32074247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32074247", "title": "Crusader Kings II", "text": "Crusader Kings II\n\nCrusader Kings II is a grand strategy game set in the Middle Ages, developed by Paradox Development Studio and published by Paradox Interactive as a sequel to \"Crusader Kings\". It was released for Microsoft Windows on February 14, 2012. An OS X version, Paradox Interactive's first in-house development for the operating system, was released on May 24, 2012. A Linux version was also released on January 14, 2013.\n\nIt has sold over 1 million copies, which made it Paradox's most successful release before Europa Universalis IV.\"\n\nThe game is a dynasty simulator where the player controls a Medieval dynasty from 1066 to 1453, though the DLC \"The Old Gods\" and \"Charlemagne\" allow for earlier start dates of 867 and 769, respectively. Through the strategic use of war, marriages and assassinations among many other things, the player works to achieve success for their dynasty. The game contains numerous historical figures such as William the Conqueror, Charlemagne, Genghis Khan, Harold Godwinson, Robert Guiscard, Robert the Bruce, Harald Hardrada, El Cid, Constantine X Doukas, Harun al-Rashid, Alexios I Komnenos, Richard the Lionheart, Ivar the Boneless, Alfred the Great, Baldwin I of Jerusalem, and Saladin, but allows for the player to choose less significant figures such as minor dukes and counts, and creation of entirely new characters with the use of the \"Ruler Designer\" DLC.\n\nSuccess is defined solely by the player. The only in-game objective is to obtain as many prestige and piety points as possible in order to surpass the various historically relevant European dynasties in a fictional prestige ranking (the three most prestigious ones being the Capetian, the Rurikovich and the Habsburg dynasties). The game ends when the player's current character dies without an heir of the same dynasty to succeed him/her, when all landed titles of the count rank or above are stripped from all members of the player's dynasty (including themselves), or when the game reaches its end in 1453.\n\nThe game employs a genetics and education system where children will inherit many traits, culture, religion and skills from their parents and guardian. This adds an additional layer of strategy to marriages, such that a player will attempt not only to form beneficial alliances, but also to select marriage partners with strong heritable traits to maximise the quality of offspring and thus strengthen the dynasty. This requires balancing sometimes conflicting interests. For example, while one possible marriage might allow some desirable alliance to be formed with another ruler, it may also require marrying a spouse with some undesirable traits. Such a trade-off can occur in the reverse as well: one possible spouse could possess highly desirable traits but yield no new alliances for the player's dynasty.\n\nWhile the player can choose any noble with at least a county in their possession to play as, there are some government types that are unplayable without modding the game. These include theocracies (such as The Papacy), holy orders, mercenaries, and republics. The merchant republic government type, however, is playable with \"The Republic\" expansion. In addition, all non-Christian characters are unplayable without the purchase of the DLC that unlocks them, including Muslims, Jews, Hindus, Buddhists, Taoists, Zoroastrians, Jains, Zunists and various Pagans.\n\nA demo was released on February 4, 2012, which featured four playable characters over a 20-year span. A marketing campaign for the game featured light comedy videos on the concept of the Seven Deadly Sins.\n\nThe game was met with generally positive reviews and has attained a metascore of 82 at Metacritic. GameSpot reviewer Shaun McInnis stated \"Through a complex system of diplomacy and backstabbing, \"Crusader Kings II\" makes every power struggle an engrossing one\" and he lauded the gameplay while noting the \"lackluster tutorials\". IGN summed up their review by saying \"An intense learning curve, but a unique strategy experience\". IGN rated the gameplay and \"lasting appeal\" a 9/10. A reviewer for \"Rock, Paper, Shotgu\"n stated that \"Crusader Kings II\" was \"probably the most human strategy game\" he ever played. Rob Zacny of \"PC PowerPlay\", who gave the game a 7/10 score, called it a \"brilliant treatment of feudalism in terms of strategy and story\" but also stated it \"requires major investment to overcome information overload\". \"Kotaku\" named the game as one of their game of the year nominees.\n\nBy September 2014, \"Crusader Kings II\" had sold more than 1 million copies, with the expansion pack and DLC sales totaling over 7 million units. According to Paradox Interactive, the game was played by an average of 12,500 players every day, with an average playtime of 99 hours per player.\n\nWhen a Crusader Kings II (CK2) game is launched, Paradox servers collect information about the game setup such as game version, single player or multiplayer, and what mods are in use. Data collected on 23 April 2017 showed that at least 42% of users on that day had activated at least one mod. Data also reveals that multiplayer \"cheat mods\" are popular too, as are graphics or GUI mods. A number of realism mods have been produced by fans such as \"Historical Immersion Project\" and \"CK2+.\"\n\nA number of total conversion mods are available:\n\n\nParadox actively encourages such modding, and the company is \"constantly considering how we can ensure new additions to the game are moddable, and we often go back and tweak existing functionality to open it further to modding.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2181711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2181711", "title": "Dansk Sprognævn", "text": "Dansk Sprognævn\n\nDansk Sprognævn ( \"Danish Language Council\") is the official regulatory body of the Danish language as a part of the Danish Ministry of Culture, and resides at the University of Copenhagen. It was established in 1955. The committee has three main objectives:\n\n\nThe working members of the committee follow written and broadcast media, read books to keep track of new words and record their usage. New words which have appeared enough in print and speech to be considered notable are added to \"Retskrivningsordbogen\", which all government institutions and schools are obliged by law to follow. The committee receives some 14,000 inquiries by phone or mail each year about the Danish language, half of them from private companies, but also by private citizens.\n\nDansk Sprognævn cooperates on a daily basis with its equivalents in the other Scandinavian countries, the Swedish and Norwegian Language Councils, to make sure that the three Mainland Scandinavian languages, which are more or less mutually intelligible, do not diverge more than necessary from one another.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8970", "title": "Diplomatic mission", "text": "Diplomatic mission\n\nA diplomatic mission or foreign mission is a group of people from one state or an organisation present in another state to represent the sending state/organisation officially in the receiving state. In practice, a diplomatic mission usually denotes the resident mission, namely the embassy, which is the main office of a country's diplomatic representatives to another country, usually but not necessarily the receiving state's capital city. Consulates, on the other hand, are smaller diplomatic missions which are normally located outside the capital of the receiving state (but can be located in the capital, usually when the sending country has no embassy in the receiving state). As well as being a diplomatic mission to the country in which it is situated, it may also be a non-resident permanent mission to one or more other countries. There are thus resident and non-resident embassies.\n\nA permanent diplomatic mission is typically known as an embassy, and the head of the mission is known as an ambassador or high commissioner. The term \"embassy\" is commonly used also as a section of a building in which the work of the diplomatic mission is carried out, but, strictly speaking, it is the diplomatic delegation itself that is the embassy, while the office space and the diplomatic work done is called the chancery. Therefore, the embassy operates in the chancery.\n\nThe members of a diplomatic mission can reside within or outside the building that holds the mission's chancery, and their private residences enjoy the same rights as the premises of the mission as regards inviolability and protection. \n\nAll missions to the United Nations are known simply as permanent missions, while EU member states' missions to the European Union are known as permanent representations, and the head of such a mission is typically both a permanent representative and an ambassador. European Union missions abroad are known as EU delegations. Some countries have more particular naming for their missions and staff: a Vatican mission is headed by a nuncio (Latin for \"envoy\") and consequently known as an apostolic nunciature. Under the rule of Muammar Gaddafi, Libya's missions used the name \"people's bureau\", headed by a secretary.\n\nMissions between Commonwealth countries are known as high commissions, and their heads are high commissioners. Generally speaking, ambassadors and high commissioners are regarded as equivalent in status and function and embassies and high commissions are both deemed to be diplomatic missions. \n\nIn the past a diplomatic mission headed by a lower-ranking official (an \"envoy\" or \"minister resident\") was known as a \"legation\". Since the ranks of envoy and minister resident are effectively obsolete, the designation of \"legation\" is no longer used today. (See diplomatic rank.)\n\nA consulate is similar to, but not the same as a diplomatic office, but with focus on dealing with individual persons and businesses, as defined by the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations. A consulate or consulate general is generally a representative of the embassy in locales outside of the capital city. For instance, the United Kingdom has its Embassy of the United Kingdom in Washington, D.C., but also maintains seven consulates-general and four consulates elsewhere in the US. The person in charge of a consulate or consulate-general is known as a consul or consul-general, respectively. Similar services may also be provided at the embassy (to serve the region of the capital) in what is normally called a consular section.\n\nIn cases of dispute, it is common for a country to recall its head of mission as a sign of its displeasure. This is less drastic than cutting diplomatic relations completely, and the mission will still continue operating more or less normally, but it will now be headed by a chargé d'affaires (usually the deputy chief of mission) who may have limited powers. A chargé d'affaires ad interim also heads the mission during the interim between the end of one chief of mission's term and the beginning of another.\n\nContrary to popular belief, most diplomatic missions do not enjoy full extraterritorial status and – in those cases – are not sovereign territory of the represented state. Rather, the premises of diplomatic missions usually remain under the jurisdiction of the host state while being afforded special privileges (such as immunity from most local laws) by the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations. Diplomats themselves still retain full diplomatic immunity, and (as an adherent to the Vienna Convention) the host country may not enter the premises of the mission without permission of the represented country, even to put out a fire. International rules designate an attack on an embassy as an attack on the country it represents. The term \"extraterritoriality\" is often applied to diplomatic missions, but normally only in this broader sense.\n\nAs the host country may not enter the representing country's embassy without permission, embassies are sometimes used by refugees escaping from either the host country or a third country. For example, North Korean nationals, who would be arrested and deported from China upon discovery, have sought sanctuary at various third-country embassies in China. Once inside the embassy, diplomatic channels can be used to solve the issue and send the refugees to another country. See the list of people who took refuge in a diplomatic mission for a list of some notable cases.\n\nNotable violations of embassy extraterritoriality include repeated invasions of the British Embassy, Beijing (1967), the Iran hostage crisis (1979–1981), and the Japanese embassy hostage crisis at the ambassador's residence in Lima, Peru (1996-1997).\n\nThe Vienna Convention states:The functions of a diplomatic mission consist, inter alia, in representing the sending State in the receiving State; protecting in the receiving State the interests of the sending State and of its nationals, within the limits permitted by international law; negotiating with the Government of the receiving State; ascertaining by all lawful means conditions and developments in the receiving State, and reporting thereon to the Government of the sending State; promoting friendly relations between the sending State and the receiving State, and developing their economic, cultural and scientific relations.\n\nDiplomatic missions between members of the British Commonwealth of Nations are not called embassies, but high commissions, as Commonwealth nations share a special diplomatic relationship. It is generally expected that an embassy of a Commonwealth country in a non-Commonwealth country will do its best to provide diplomatic services to citizens from other Commonwealth countries if the citizen's country does not have an embassy in that country. Canadian and Australian nationals enjoy even greater cooperation between their respective consular services, as outlined in Canada-Australia Consular Services Sharing Agreement. The same kind of procedure is also followed multilaterally by the member states of the European Union (EU). European citizens in need of consular help in a country without diplomatic or consular representation of their own country may turn to any consular or diplomatic mission of another EU member state.\n\nThe rights and immunities (such as diplomatic immunity) of diplomatic missions are codified in the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations.\n\nSome cities may host more than one mission from the same country. An example is Rome, where many states maintain missions to Italy and another to the Holy See. It is not customary for these missions to share premises nor diplomatic personnel. At present, only the Iraqi missions to Italy and the Holy See share premises; however, two ambassadors are appointed, one to each country. In the case of the UN's Food Agencies, the Head of Mission to the Italian Republic is usually accredited as permanent representative. The United States maintains a separate United States Mission to the UN Agencies in Rome, whose head is the United States Ambassador to the United Nations Agencies for Food and Agriculture. Kolkata, India hosts two Bangladeshi Deputy High Commissions, one at Park Circus and another at Mirza Galib Street. This was done to reduce overcrowding inside the Deputy High Commission. At first the Park Circus was opened and later, the one at Mirza Galib Street. Now both the Deputy High Commissions issue Bangladeshi visa.\n\nGovernments of states not recognized by the receiving state and of territories that make no claim to be sovereign states may set up offices abroad that do not have official diplomatic status as defined by the Vienna Convention. Examples are the Taipei Economic and Cultural Representative Offices that represent the government of the Republic of China; Somaliland's Representative Offices in London, Addis Ababa, Rome, and Washington, D.C.; the Hong Kong Economic and Trade Offices that represent the government of that territory. Such offices assume some of the non-diplomatic functions of diplomatic posts, such as promoting trade interests and providing assistance to its citizens and residents. They are nevertheless not diplomatic missions, their personnel are not diplomats and do not have diplomatic visas, although there may be legislation providing for personal immunities and tax privileges, as in the case of the Hong Kong offices in London and Toronto, for example.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32347411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32347411", "title": "F*ck Tea", "text": "F*ck Tea\n\nThe F*ck Tea campaign, launched in August 2010 by The Agenda Project, was aimed to dismiss the Tea Party and promote the progressive cause. It involved a website, merchandise such as mugs and T-Shirts, polling statistics demonstrating the ignorance of the Tea Party, and a mocking video.\nThe name of the campaign was chosen in order to be provocative, to market the counter-movement, and to better engage typical Americans in the campaign.\n\nAccording to founder Erica Payne, the Tea Party began in response to the bank bailouts to push against the bought-and-paid-for politicians, which she appreciated. However, they quickly turned to attacking healthcare and spouting rhetoric. They abandoned financial regulation. She felt it was irresponsible to begin a party based on an issue and then ignore it, so she created this initiative.\n\nThe campaign received attention from various news sources, including:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6746591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6746591", "title": "Farmers' Party (Netherlands)", "text": "Farmers' Party (Netherlands)\n\nThe Farmers' Party (in Dutch: \"Boerenpartij\", BP) was a Dutch agrarian political party, with a strong conservative outlook and a populist appeal. The BP was the first anti-establishment party elected into the Dutch House of Representatives after the Second World War.\n\nThe precise foundation date of the BP is not known. In 1958 in several Gelderland municipalities \"Free Farmers\" lists contested in municipal elections. In 1959 the Farmers' Party officially applied at the Kiesraad to participate in the 1959 elections, although the party was unable to win a seat. The founder of the party was Hendrik Koekoek, the chair and founder of the Association for Freedom for Agricultural Business, also known as the \"Free Farmers\". The organization resisted increasing government intervention and the institutionalization of farming. These also became important issues for the Farmers' Party.\n\nIn the elections of 1963 the Farmers' Party won three seats in the House of Representatives. The party had gained considerable attention when the police had forcibly seized farms whose owners had not paid their taxes. Koekoek, the party's leader, came from the same region and acted as spokesperson for these farmers. With its populist appeal the party had been able to get the support from farmers and non-farmers, even from urban areas. He headed the party's list and became the chairperson of the parliamentary party. In 1966 the party won two seats in the Senate.\n\nIn parliament the Boerenpartij was troubled by internal struggles and splits. In 1966 it was revealed that one of the party's senators, Adams, had a national socialist background, and had been a member of the National Socialist Movement and the SS. Koekoek protected Adams against the allegations. In reaction to that Voogd, one of the party's MPs, left the party. Also a group of members from the party founded their own party, Emergency Council (\"Noodraad\").\n\nBoth Emergency Council and Farmers' Party participated in the 1967 elections, as did Voogd with his own list. Only the Farmers' party managed to secure representation with a total of seven seats, whilst both the Emergency Council and the List-Voogd ended up with no seats. In the next years Koekoek was (again) unable to keep his parliamentary party together. His authoritarian leadership caused four of the seven MPs to leave the party and to organize their own party, Right Allegiance (\"Binding Rechts\"). They were led by Harmsen, one of the founders of the Farmers' Party. One of these four MPs left his new party soon to work as an independent. In 1971 one of Koekoek's MPs also left his party, leaving only two MPs.\nIn the 1971 elections Koekoek obtained only one seat, and Right Allegiance none. In the 1972 elections the party won two additional seats. In the 1977 elections the party lost those two seats again, leaving only Koekoek.\n\nBefore the elections of 1981 the BP was renamed to Rightwing People's Party (\"Rechtse Volkspartij\", RVP) but they were unable to win a seat.\n\nThe party's main issue was the increasing government interference in, and the institutionalization of, farming. Yet it was more than single issue agrarian interest party. It saw itself as a conservative party which championed political and economic freedom in general, on basis of national and Christian values. It had a strong populist, anti-establishment appeal. Although some members had been active with fascist or national socialist organizations before 1945 the party rejected racism and fascism. Piero Ignazi has defined its ideology as \" a curious mixture of authoritarianism and individualism, anti-tax protest, and anti-parliamentarism, somewhat reminiscent of French \"Poujadism\"\". However he stressed that the party was not part of the extreme right.\n\nThe party had a strong nationalist message: it was in favour of the Dutch monarchy, opposed European integration, wanted a strong defense, and believed that law and order should be maintained.\n\nOn economic matters the party was very conservative. It wanted to protect private property and encourage private initiative. It sought to reduce government influence on the economy and taxation. It felt that the welfare state should be reduced to a minimum, agricultural subsidies should be cut, and that the agricultural sector would be able to support itself if the government interfered less.\n\nThis table shows the BP's results in elections to the House of Representatives and Senate, as well as the party's political leadership: the fractievoorzitter is the chair of the parliamentary party and the lijsttrekker is the party's top candidate in the general election, and these posts are normally taken by the party's leader.\n\nThe party has been able to win several seats in provincial legislatures and in municipal councils. In several rural municipalities such as Apeldoorn the party was rather strong - Harmsen, one of the party's MPs, was a longtime alderman there. However especially in the period 1965-1970 the party also managed to win municipal council seats in urban municipalities such as Amsterdam, where they scored 9.4% (or 4 of 45 seats) in 1966.\n\nThe party drew most of its support from farmers and small business owners in rural areas. With its populist appeal the party had also been able to get support from small business owners in urban areas. In the 1963 elections the party polled 6,000 votes from Amsterdam.\n\nAs a conservative farmers' party, the Farmers' Party is similar to Eastern European farmers' parties, such as the Polish Peasant Party. The best comparison however can be made with the party of Pierre Poujade which was successful in the 1956 elections, but faded away afterwards. Like Poujade's party the Farmers' Party had a strong populist message which appealed to both farmers and small business.\n"}
{"id": "284877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284877", "title": "Foday Sankoh", "text": "Foday Sankoh\n\nFoday Saybana Sankoh (17 October 1937 – 29 July 2003) was the criminal founder of the genocidal Sierra Leone rebel group Revolutionary United Front (RUF), which was supported by Charles Taylor-led NPFL in the 11-year-long Sierra Leone Civil War. Starting in 1991 and ending in 2002. An estimated 50,000 people were killed during the war, and over 500,000 people were displaced in neighbouring countries.\n\nFoday Sankoh was born on 17 October 1937, in the remote village of Masang Mayoso, Tonkolili District in the Northern part of Sierra Leone to an ethnic Temne father and a Loko mother. Sankoh was the son of a farmer.\n\nSankoh attended primary and secondary school in Magburaka, Tonkolili District and took on a number of jobs in Magburaka before he joined the Sierra Leone army in 1956. He undertook training in Nigeria and the United Kingdom. In 1971, then a corporal in the Sierra Leone army, he was cashiered from the army's signal corps and imprisoned for seven years at the Pademba Road Prison in Freetown for taking part in a mutiny.\n\nOn his release he worked as an itinerant photographer in the south and east of Sierra Leone, eventually coming in contact with young radicals.\n\nSankoh and confederates Rashid Mansaray and Abu Kanu solicited support for an armed uprising to oust the APC government. They then traveled to Liberia, where they reportedly continued recruiting and served with Charles G. Taylor's National Patriotic Front of Liberia (NPFL).\n\nOn 23 March 1991, the RUF, led by Foday Sankoh and backed by Charles Taylor, launched its first attack in villages in Kailahun District in the diamond-rich Eastern Province of Sierra Leone.\n\nThe RUF became notorious for brutal practices such as mass rapes and amputations during the civil war. Sankoh personally ordered many operations, including one called \"Operation Pay Yourself\" that encouraged troops to loot anything they could find. After complaining about such tactics, Kanu and Mansaray were summarily executed.\n\nIn March 1997, Sankoh fled to Nigeria, where he was put under house arrest and then imprisoned. From this time until Sankoh's release in 1999, Sam Bockarie performed the task of director of military operations of the RUF. During the ten-year war, Sankoh broke several promises to stop fighting, including the Abidjan Peace Accord and the Lomé Peace Accord signed in 1999. Eventually the United Kingdom and ECOMOG intervened with their own small, but professional, military forces, and the RUF was eventually crushed.\n\nSankoh was later arrested on 17 May 2000 after his soldiers gunned down a number of protesters, killing 19 people, including journalist Saoman Conteh, outside his Freetown home on 8 May 2000. His arrest led to massive celebrations throughout Sierra Leone.\n\nSankoh was handed to the British. Under the jurisdiction of a UN-backed court, he was indicted on 17 counts for various war crimes, including use of child soldiers and crimes against humanity, including extermination, enslavement, rape and sexual slavery.\n\nSankoh died in hospital of complications arising from a stroke whilst awaiting trial on the night of 29 July 2003. In a statement by the UN-backed war crimes court, chief prosecutor David Crane said that Sankoh's death granted him \"a peaceful end that he denied to so many others\".\n\n"}
{"id": "319778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=319778", "title": "Free Aceh Movement", "text": "Free Aceh Movement\n\nThe Free Aceh Movement ( or simply GAM, , also: Gěrakan Aceh Měrdeka) was a separatist group seeking independence for the Aceh region of Sumatra from Indonesia. GAM fought against Indonesian government forces in the Aceh insurgency from 1976 to 2005, during which over 15,000 lives are believed to have been lost. \n\nThe organisation surrendered its separatist intentions and dissolved its armed wing following 2005 peace agreement with the Indonesian Government, and subsequently changed its name into Aceh Transition Committee (\"Komite Peralihan Aceh\", KPA). The Indonesian government called the group the \"Aceh Security Disturbance Movement\".\n\nThe conflict in Aceh stems from several major factors including historical mistreatment, disagreements over Islamic law, discontent over the distribution of Aceh's natural resource wealth, and the increase in the numbers of Javanese people in Aceh.\n\nDuring the era of Dutch colonisation in the 1800s Aceh was a centre of resistance against Dutch colonial rule. The Acehnese resisted Dutch forces. They were one of the last Indonesian people to succumb to colonial rule and only after a brutal 30-year campaign, the Aceh War of 1873-1903. When the Netherlands transferred sovereignty of their colonial territory, administration of Aceh was handed over to Indonesia and GAM claims that this was done without consultation with Acehnese authorities. Daud Bereueh mounted an armed rebellion that ended with Aceh being granted special status by President Sukarno. This special status gave Aceh control on religion, custom law and education.\n\nMotivated by discovery of large gas reserves in Lhokseumawe and driven by inherent ethnic-chauvinism widespread amongst the Acehnese, a former Darul Islam \"foreign minister\", Hasan di Tiro established the Free Aceh Movement (Gerakan Aceh Merdeka) in December 1976. The small movement carried out its first attack on Mobil Oil engineers in 1977, killing one American engineer. Due to this incident, GAM came under the attention of central government who sent small units of counter-insurgency troops that successfully crushed the movement. Di Tiro was nearly killed and was forced to flee to Malaysia while all members of his \"cabinet\" were either killed or forced to flee abroad by 1979.\n\nSince its inception GAM has gone through three stages or three rises and falls. The first was at its birth in 1976 to the year 1979 when it was almost wiped out. The second rise and fall was in 1989 to the early 90s when it received funding and training from foreign countries. The third rise was a result of finally gaining widespread support throughout Aceh as a result of donations and extortion and a large group of potential soldiers who had lost relatives in the previous uprising.\n\nAt first the guerilla war of GAM was quite unsuccessful. By 1977 the central government appeared to have entirely neutralised the group. The early GAM efforts were mainly directed at the local Exxon Mobil gas plant. Di Tiro had connections with the petroleum industry and even bid, via a tender process, on a contract to build a gas pipeline which was beaten by the gas giant Bechtel. The reason for this failure was a lack of popular support from both within Aceh and from international sources. President Suharto was favoured by countries such as America due to his anti communist policies during the Cold War period.\n\nThe group renewed its activities in the 1989, apparently with financial support from Libya and Iran, fielding around 1,000 soldiers. This training from overseas meant that GAM soldiers were much more organised and better trained than the previous insurgency. To counter this new threat Aceh was declared an \"area of special military operations\" (Daerah Operasi Militer) or DOM in 1989. Special counter- insurgency troops were sent in and Aceh was locked down. Villages that were suspected of harbouring GAM operatives were burnt down and family members of suspected militants were kidnapped and tortured. Amnesty International called the military response \"shock therapy\" and it is believed 7,000 human rights abuses took place during DOM. GAM forces have also been suspected of Human Rights abuses. Extra judicial executions of suspected military informants and targeting of civilian infrastructure such as schools have both been attributed to GAM operations.\n\nIn 1996 the Indonesian government announced the end of GAM., as the counter-insurgency operations had effectively destroyed GAM as a guerilla force. Surviving GAM members were forced to hide in Malaysia.\n\nThe fall of Suharto in 1998 and the decision of his successor President Jusuf Habibie to withdraw troops from Aceh as part of democratic reform gave space for GAM to re-establish itself, recruiting youths by exploiting brutality stories of Indonesian military. Increasing violence beginning in 1999 by GAM rebels against government officials and Javanese residents, buoyed by massive weapons smuggling from Thailand by the GAM, led to an increase in military presence. Troop numbers are believed to have risen during the rule of Megawati Sukarnoputri. In 2001–02 the combination of military and police forces in Aceh had grown to about 30,000. In one year this number jumped to 50,000 operating in what the International Crisis group called, \"a virtual legal vacuum\". The security crackdowns during this time resulted in several thousand civilian deaths. The government launched a large 2003–04 Indonesian offensive in Aceh against the GAM in 2003 with some success.\n\nThe leaders of GAM, Hasan di Tiro, and his chief deputy, Zaini Abdullah, and Malik Mahmud lived in exile in Stockholm, Sweden for most of the 1980s and 1990s. The group's main Indonesian spokesman was Abdullah Syafei'i Dimatang. In the late 1990s GAM began peace talks with Jakarta, brokered by the Swedish government.\n\nIn 1999 it was reported that the group had split into two factions, GAM (representing the original group) and the Free Aceh Movement Government Council (MP-GAM). This was denied by GAM spokespersons but was widely reported in the Indonesian media.\n\nOn December 2002, GAM and GoI signed a breakthrough Cessation of Hostilities Agreement (COHA) which only held for a few months before violations started occurring. The mediator in these negotiations, the Henry Dunant Centre for International Dialogue (HDC) did not have proper monitoring and enforcing mechanisms to enact sanctions for violations.\n\nIn 2002-2004, the GAM was severely hit by a series of government offensives in which the organisation lost approximately 50% of its members including its commander, Abdullah Syafei'i Dimatang, who was killed in a military ambush on January 2002.\n\nOn Tuesday, 28 December 2004, in the aftermath of the devastation caused by a massive tsunami, GAM declared a ceasefire of hostilities to allow for aid to reach within the disputed area. In turn, the Indonesian government temporarily removed restrictions of northern Sumatra to allow for rescue efforts in that area.\n\nOther Aceh separatist groups exist and there was some tension between them and GAM over tactics and GAM's monopoly of negotiations with the government.\n\nOn 27 February 2005, the Free Aceh Movement and the delegation of the Indonesian government started another round of peace talks in Vantaa, Finland, moderated by former Finnish president Martti Ahtisaari. On 16 July 2005, the Indonesian Minister of Communication and GAM announced a peace deal to end the thirty-year insurgency.\n\nThe peace agreement was officially signed on 15 August 2005 in the Finnish Government Banquet Hall in Helsinki by chief Indonesian negotiator Hamid Awaluddin and GAM leader Malik Mahmud. President Ahtisaari was the witness of the peace treaty.\n\nUnder the terms of the agreement, both sides agreed to cease all hostilities immediately. GAM also agreed to disarm, while the Government pledged to withdraw all non-local military and police by the end of 2005. An Aceh Monitoring Mission was set up by the EU and ASEAN to oversee the process of disarmament and the reintegration into society of GAM members. A presidential decree granted amnesty to about five hundred former GAM members who were in exile in other countries, and unconditionally released about 1,400 members who had been jailed by the Government.\n\nThe Government agreed to facilitate the establishment of Aceh-based political parties; this had been one of the most contentious issues in previous negotiations. A \"truth and reconciliation commission\" will be organised. On the question of the uneven distribution of income, it was settled that seventy percent of the income from local natural resources will stay within Aceh.\n\nOn 27 December 2005, the leaders of the Free Aceh Movement announced that they had disbanded their military wing. The action, which took effect immediately, follows from earlier peace talks and the destruction of 840 weapons by international observers, Free Aceh movement commander Sofyan Daud told reporters, \"The Aceh national army is now part of civil society, and will work to make the peace deal a success.\" As a sign of how the peace process was progressing the founder of Aceh's separatist rebel movement, Hasan di Tiro, returned to Indonesia on 11 October 2008 after nearly 30 years in exile.\n\nDuring the election of 11 December 2006, the Free Aceh Movement temporarily split into two factions each supporting its own candidate for governorship. One side supported Zaini Abdullah's brother, and the other side supported Irwandi Yusuf, a former GAM negotiator. Irwandi Yusuf got more support from the grass root level and won the election. The losing faction proceeded to bide its time, aiming to make a comeback in the next gubernatorial election in Aceh due at the end of Irwandi's five-year term in 2011. In the event, the gubernatorial election due to be held at the end of 2011 was delayed by procedural squabbling as different factions scrambled for advantage. The elections took place in April 2012.\n\nThe 2012 election, held on 9 April, was largely a continuation of post-agreement rivalries between former GAM leaders, with Zaini Abdullah having returned from exile and entered into the contest for the governorship against Irwandi. Zaini Abdullah, with the strong support of the Aceh Party, won the election with a substantial majority.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20788923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20788923", "title": "General Intelligence Agency of Mongolia", "text": "General Intelligence Agency of Mongolia\n\nGeneral Intelligence Agency of Mongolia (GIA), Mongolian language: Тагнуулын ерөнхий газар. GIA is the intelligence agency of the Mongolian government, under the control of the Prime Minister of Mongolia. Its headquarters is in Ulaanbaatar (Capital of the Mongolian Republic). The GIA employees number around several hundred people and act as an early warning system to alert the Mongolian government. It collects and evaluates information on a variety of areas such as international terrorism, organized crime, weapons and drug trafficking, money laundering, illegal migration and information warfare.\n\nhttp://gia.gov.mn - Official website\n"}
{"id": "33051773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33051773", "title": "Human rights in East Timor", "text": "Human rights in East Timor\n\nEast Timor is a multiparty parliamentary republic with a population of approximately 1.1 million, sharing the island of Timor with Indonesia's Nusa Tenggara province. During the 24 years of Indonesian occupation (from 1975,) and after the 1999 independence referendum, pro Indonesian militias committed many human rights violations. The country gained independence in 2002, and free and fair elections were held in 2007. The United Nations Integrated Mission in East Timor (UNMIT) and the International Stabilization Force remain in the country while it develops its own security forces, the National Police (PNTL) and Defence Forces (F-FDTL).\n\nThere are a number of issues concerning civil and political rights including breaches of the right to a fair trial and freedom from arbitrary arrest. The delivery of economic, social and cultural rights is also a concern, such as the right to education, and the right to family life; there is little respect for the rights of women and children and domestic violence and sexual abuse are major problems.\n\nEast Timor joined the United Nations (UN) in 2002 and is a party to seven of the nine core human rights treaties: the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination (ICERD), International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR), International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights (ICESCR), Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women (CEDAW), Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment (CAT)) and International Convention on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and Members of Their Families (ICRMW)). It has not ratified the International Convention for the Protection of All Persons from Enforced Disappearance (CED) or the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (CRPD)). Its first Universal Periodic Review was held in October 2011.\n\nEast Timor has ratified optional protocols of international treaties, including the First Optional Protocol to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, the Second Optional Protocol to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, and the Optional Protocol on the Involvement of Children in Armed Conflict and Optional Protocol on the Sale of Children, Child Prostitution and Child Pornography of the Convention on the Rights of the Child.\n\nThe constitution enacted in 2002 is comprehensive, however more systems need to be put in place before the rights detailed in the constitution can be said to be guaranteed, for example the right to private property, health, and education is still not realised for many, and there is inefficient delivery of the right to a hearing and defence, free consent to marriage, and freedom to assemble, as detailed below.\n\nThe country's inefficient legal system has raised human rights concerns. In 2010, the country was reported to have issues with lack of fair trials, the use of excessive force by police, and a pervading sense of impunity for past human rights breaches.\n\nThe judicial system suffers from a lack of staffing and resources, thus even though the law prohibits arbitrary arrest and detention, incarceration may occur because judges are unavailable, and there are long delays until people are heard at trial. There are also significant comprehension difficulties as although Tetum and Portuguese are both official languages of East Timor, Portuguese is the main legal language, which most of the population does not speak.\n\nThere have also been reports of the police and defence force breaching the rights of civilians through cruel or degrading treatment such as beatings, excessive use of force, intimidation and threats made at gunpoint. Allegations of prison guards mistreating prisoners have also been made.\n\nFighting between the police and defence force led to violent riots in 2006 resulting in civilian displacement and deaths. Additionally, in 2008 the commander of the Military Police, Alfredo Reinado, led an armed attack on the Prime Minister and President, leading to a state of emergency being declared and necessitating the creation of a Joint Command in order to stem the violence and human rights violations. However, significantly, the President commuted the sentences of those responsible for the 2006 riots, and pardons were given to those involved with the 2008 violence, creating a perception of impunity, and the subsequent vetting process has not resulted in any dismissals for past human rights violations. Training programmes have resulted in some improvements, although allegations of human rights violations by the police and military continue to be made.\n\nFurthermore, reconciliation with Indonesia has been pursued rather than focusing on criminal prosecutions for crimes committed during the 1975-1999 occupation. The Commission for Reception, Truth and Reconciliation in East Timor (\"Comissão de Acolhimento, Verdade e Reconciliação\"), and the Commission of Truth and Friendship merely brought the truth to the fore rather than seeking prosecution for crimes including unlawful killings, enforced disappearances, sexual violence, torture, and war crimes. However José Ramos-Horta has accused \"the UN of \"hypocrisy\" for using his government's stance on justice as a pretext for not setting up the tribunal. The Serious Crimes Investigation Team continues to investigate violations committed in 1999.\n\nIn East Timor freedom of speech and freedom of the press are protected by law, and this is generally respected by the government. There is also an active independent media operating mainly through television and radio, although there is limited access to televisions and radios, and reception problems limit broadcasting outside of Dili and the district capitals.\n\nEast Timor law requires that four days' notice be given to the police before any demonstrations or strikes, and demonstrations are barred within 100 yards of government buildings or diplomatic facilities. However, in practice demonstrations are allowed without the advanced notifications, and the 100 yard regulation is rarely enforced.\n\nRights to political participation are stated in article 25 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights which guarantees rights to take part in public affairs, free and universal suffrage, and generally equal access to public service roles.\n\nThese rights are largely upheld in Timor-Leste. Section 46 of the Constitution of Timor-Leste states that \"every citizen has the right to participate in the political life and in the public affairs of the country\"; that every \"citizen has the right to establish and to participate in political parties\"; and that \"the establishment and organisation of such parties shall be regulated by law.\" Section 47 guarantees that every citizen above the age of seventeen has the right to vote and be elected. and section 48 guarantees the right of citizens to submit \"petitions, complaints and claims\" to authorities.\n\nThe 2017 election was contested by 21 parties. Voter turnout was high, with 77 percent of Timorese voting compared to 74 percent in 2012, and 80 percent in 2007. Elections are held under a party-list proportional representation system, in which voters select parties rather than individual candidates, a system that gives substantial power to party leaders. The electoral threshold is 4%, meaning that political parties need at least 4 percent of the vote to enter parliament. This limits the power of some minor parties. \n\nThe system is supportive of female participation and there is a requirement for one third of a party's candidates to be women, resulting in Timor-Leste having one of the highest percentages of female MPs in the Asia Pacific region (38 percent prior to the 2017 election). However, meaningful participation by women is sometimes constrained by traditional attitudes and stereotypes, particularly in local and regional roles.\n\nThere are no legal constraints on participation by the country's few ethnic minority groups and they appear to be well integrated into the political system, although the total number positions held by ethnic minorities is uncertain since self-identification of ethnicity is an uncommon practice.\n\nThe Economist Intelligence Unit's Democracy Index rates East Timor consistently between 7.22-7.24 between 2008 and 2016, on a scale where 0 indicates a fully authoritarian regime and 10 indicates a perfect democracy. This rating is the highest in the South Pacific and is close to that of major democracies such as the United States (7.98) and France (7.92).\n\nLimitations on political participation in Timor-Leste are largely practical, as many areas of the country are hard to access due to geographical constraints and poor levels of roading infrastructure which can impact the ability of those in more remote areas to participate in elections. This has limited the ability of smaller parties to compete in some areas, as the better funded CNRT and Fretilin are more able to transport their supporters to polling stations.\n\nThere is also a risk that political participation will decline due to the relative lack of progress in dealing with continuous domestic challenges and the lack of decentralisation to promote self-governance and self reliance, although so far this has not had a major impact.\n\nThe convention of large political coalitions has also been identified as a potential risk to the health of Timor-Leste's democracy. Dr Michael Leach observes that since 2012, the two largest parties in government (the CNRT and Fretilin) have been in a 'grand coalition', a remarkable development since prior to the agreement, there were bitter tensions between the two parties. He notes that this recent trend towards coalitions is the result of a strong desire by Timorese politicians to facilitate stability after the instability and violence of previous years, although he also observes that such coalitions can risk undermining the accountability of the government due to the absence of a major opposition outside of government. In 2015 Francisco Guterres (the Fretilin candidate) was endorsed by prime minister Xanana Gusmão, his erstwhile rival, and won with over 60 percent of the vote, showing that a large proportion of voters currently prefer the power sharing arrangement, despite its drawbacks.\n\nThe generational divide within government roles may pose a significant challenge in the next few years. While posts such as the prime minister and chief justice are held by the younger generation, it appears that the veterans of the \"1975 generation\" retain most of the power behind the scenes, limiting the effectiveness of later generations to influence political society. Leach predicts this will gradually change in future elections as a greater proportion of voters come from generations with no experience of the struggle for independence. \n\nThe relative ineffectiveness of the Timorese judiciary in promoting and upholding rights has led to many citizens and civil society seeking other methods to realise their rights and political participation through lobbying has become more common due to its effectiveness in achieving results, although this depends on the priorities of the politicians involved.\n\nLand issues are currently the third largest source of complaints to the PDJH, Timor-Leste's national human rights institution. Until 1 June 2017 there was no overarching land law to regulate such issues. Article 54 of the Constitution of Timor-Leste guarantees the right to private property. It also states that private property should not be used to the detriment of its social purpose, that only national citizens have the right to ownership of land,\nand that \"requisitioning and expropriation of property for public purposes shall only take place\nfollowing fair compensation in accordance with the law\". In practice, however, these protections have not always been implemented. While a specific right to land is not codified in international law, the issues involved cut across many rights. In Timor-Leste these include non-discrimination, women's rights, rights to housing, and the right to work (due to the heavy reliance on agriculture).\n\nLand issues are complicated by the legacy of the Portuguese and Indonesian occupations in the years prior to independence. During both regimes, land was confiscated from its traditional owners by force and consolidated into the hands of loyalists, a policy that created substantial ethnic and regional divisions. When the Indonesian military withdrew from the country in 1999, the military and affiliated militia groups destroyed an estimated 70 per cent of existing structures and took the country's land records with them, resulting in a situation where many are without title to the land they live on. High levels of population displacement as a result of the violence have further complicated matters. While a 2016 survey found that 87 per cent of residents in Dili considered themselves the owners of the land where they lived, only just over half of respondents said they had legal title to it. The problem is even more severe in the countryside, where many hold land only through customary and informal systems, systems that have no legal recognition. Resource and staffing constraints have also resulted in a substantial backlog in the courts, making it difficult to seek a legal remedy and there have been reported cases of abuse from the security services in conducting evictions. According to this survey, despite high levels of perceived ownership, the majority of households in Dili fear to varying degrees that they will be evicted in five years.\n\nGovernment land acquisitions for development projects, particularly in the Oecusse and Suia districts, have been heavily criticised by NGOs, particularly for disregarding many private claims and evicting residents from land where the title is unclear. Prior to the 2017 law, government policy did not provide compensation for confiscated land that the occupier did not have title to. While this policy was not always maintained in practice, compensation in any case has been inconsistent and some Suai communities have complained that the alternative housing provided by the government did not meet their needs and the resulting relocations significantly changed their lives and cultural practices. \n\nThese practices risk breaching Timor Leste’s obligations under the International Covenant on Economic, Social, and Cultural Rights and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, both of which it has ratified. Article 11.1 of the ICESCR states that “everyone has the right to an adequate standard of living for himself and his family, including food, housing and water”, whilst Article 17.1 of the ICCPR states that “everyone has the right not to be subjected to arbitrary or unlawful interference with his or her privacy, family, home, or correspondence”. However, the U.S. Department of State notes that the Timorese government typically prefers to prioritise matters of perceived national importance over those of human rights and while some action has been taken to prosecute those involved in abuses, public perceptions of impunity persist.\n\nThere were four recommendations from other countries regarding land issues in Timor Leste's 2016 Universal Periodic Review. There were three recommendations to take measures to eliminate gender discrimination and women's rights to land ownership while Indonesia recommended the completion of statutes to protect human rights including land. Timor-Leste accepted three recommendations and noted Canada's recommendation to remove discriminatory provisions from legislation.\n\nThe Timorese government has acknowledged the need for reform. In its 2016 report as part of the Universal Periodic Review, it acknowledged that the right to property is enshrined in Article 54.1 of the Constitution. Furthermore, the Government affirmed its intentions to continue the development of a land law package to protect these rights and the creation of a real estate fund, in part to provide appropriate compensation for land acquisition.\n\nOn 6 February 2017 the National Parliament of Timor-Leste unanimously approved the \"Special Regime for the Ownership of Immovable Property\", more commonly known as the 'Land Law', and it was officially enacted on the 1 June 2017. The purpose of the law is “to clarify the legal status of land ownership by bringing into effect the different dimensions of the right to private property provided for in the Constitution of Timor-Leste”. It also provides criteria for the resolution of ownership disputes and will create a National Land Registry to manage property titles. As of September 2017, there have been no major reports on the effectiveness of the law in achieving these objectives.\n\nIn East Timor, women are often deemed to have a lesser status than men, despite the constitution guaranteeing equality. Both Portugal and Indonesia in their role as colonists created and maintained traditional patriarchal social structures, marginalising women. Girls are only sent to school for a few years, and young girls are sometimes forced into arranged marriages. Furthermore, in some regions tradition prevents women from inheriting or owning property, despite the right being guaranteed in the constitution.\n\nSexual and domestic violence is also one of the major human rights concerns in the country. The Vulnerable Person's Unit within the PNTL is responsible for receiving and investigating allegations of sexual violence, however investigations are often delayed due to a lack of resources and institutional support, and cases are often resolved through traditional dispute resolution mechanisms, which do not provide full redress to victims. A continuing effort on behalf of the government, the UN, and non-governmental organisations (NGOs,) has resulted in some improvement, and the recently introduced Law Against Domestic Violence should assist by providing a framework for government, police and community responses to domestic violence.\n\nThere are major issues regarding abuse of children, lack of education and high levels of malnourishment. Child abuse, including physical and psychological abuse and sexual violence is a serious problem in East Timor. Additionally, corporal punishment is still used to discipline children at school and at home. The majority of incidents of violence against children are not formally reported and there are inadequate judicial remedies. There have also been reports of commercial sexual exploitation of minors, and child labour is widespread. Additionally, in some instances, parents have indentured their children in order to settle debts.\n\nAlthough the constitution states that primary education is compulsory, there is no legislation establishing a minimum level of education, nor a system to ensure free education is provided. Statistics from the UN in 2009 showed that approximately 20 percent of primary school-age children nationwide were not enrolled in school, with even higher levels of non-enrolment in rural areas.\nThere are also high levels of child malnutrition and infant and child mortality, which the government, in conjunction with UNICEF, is working towards reducing through the “national nutrition strategy”. It is hoped that the newly established East Timor National Commission on Child Rights, mandated to promote, defend, and monitor child rights will improve the situation.\n\nThe national institution of human rights is the \"Provedor de Direitos Humanos e Justiça\" (The Provedor for Human Rights and Justice (PDHJ),) which has played a key role in promoting and protecting rights since its establishment in June 2005. Its mandate is to investigate complaints of human rights violations, maladministration and corruption, and to carry out monitoring, advocacy and promotional activities. However, there is a need for a PDHJ presence in the regions, as at present complainants from the districts need to travel to Dili to lodge complaints, thus inhibiting the process. In the districts where the \"Provedoria\" is not yet established, NGO members often fulfill the role of monitoring rights.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "779856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=779856", "title": "Independence/Democracy", "text": "Independence/Democracy\n\nIndependence/Democracy (IND/DEM) was a Eurosceptic political group active during the 2004–2009 term of the European Parliament. The group was the successor to the Europe of Democracies and Diversities (EDD) group.\n\nThe group collapsed following the 2009 European elections after losing many of its MEPs and was succeeded by Europe of Freedom and Democracy (EFD) for the 2009–2014 term of the European Parliament.\n\nThe 2004 European Parliament elections were reported as a good result for Eurosceptic parties. 37 MEPs (33 on 20 July, with four more the next day) from the UK Independence Party (UKIP), June Movement (Denmark), Movement for France (France), Northern League (Italy), ChristianUnion – Reformed Political Party (Netherlands), Popular Orthodox Rally (Greece), June List (Sweden), Independent Democrats (Czech Republic), the League of Polish Families (Poland) and an Independent MEP from the Republic of Ireland, joined together in the first week of the new Parliament to form the Eurosceptic group called \"Independence/Democracy\" (IND/DEM), succeeding the group called \"Europe of Democracies and Diversities\" (EDD) that had existed during the European Parliament's 1999–2004 term.\n\nIn the first week, IND/DEM assigned a UKIP MEP to the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality. The MEP, Godfrey Bloom, promptly made comments including \"No self-respecting small businessman with a brain in the right place would ever employ a lady of child-bearing age\" and \"I am here to represent Yorkshire women who always have dinner on the table when you get home. I am going to promote men's rights.\" The remarks engendered outrage from a range of fellow politicians.\n\nOne UKIP MEP never made it to IND/DEM. MEP Ashley Mote was expelled from UKIP prior to IND/DEM's formation when it became known that he faced charges for housing benefit fraud. Mote went on to join the far-right Identity, Tradition, Sovereignty group before being convicted in 2007.\n\nThe Northern League MEPs eventually all left the group after their expulsion from IND/DEM following an incident involving a T-shirt and the Jyllands-Posten Muhammad cartoons controversy. MEPs from the League of Polish Families also left the group, although not all and not all at once.\nAfter having been suspended from UKIP following his arrest on fraud allegations, MEP Tom Wise left IND/DEM in June 2008.\n\nBy 24 June 2008, IND/DEM had 22 MEPs.\n\nAfter the 2009 European Parliament elections, 18 IND/DEM MEPs from four Member States were elected for the 2009–2014 term (the Seventh European Parliament). The great majority of these seats (thirteen) were from the UK Independence Party, with others being two from the ChristianUnion – Reformed Political Party of the Netherlands, two from the Popular Orthodox Rally of Greece, and one from Libertas France. But that didn't meet the threshold laid down in the European Parliament's Rules of Procedure. So when the Seventh European Parliament started on 14 July 2009, IND/DEM would not qualify as a group.\n\nOn 30 June 2009, it was reported the remnants of IND/DEM were to unite with the remnants of another collapsing group, Union for a Europe of Nations (UEN), to create a new group whose official name was not yet determined.\n\nOn 1 July 2009 a press conference was held launching the new group. That press conference named the new group \"Europe of Freedom and Democracy\". IND/DEM had ceased to exist.\n\nIND/DEM was a coalition of MEPs from two distinct wings of Euroscepticism: a reformist subgroup (sometimes referred to as \"Eurorealists\") made up of those MEPs who believed that the EU was essentially desirable if reformed and who supported greater transparency and control over the EU bureaucracy, and a secessionist subgroup consisting of those MEPs (notably UKIP) who believed that the EU was inherently wrong even if reformed and who advocated withdrawal from the EU.\n\nIND/DEM had a joint political leadership. The group's co-chairs were Nigel Farage (UKIP) and Hanne Dahl, the latter succeeding Kathy Sinnott, who in turn succeeded long-time MEP Jens-Peter Bonde (June Movement) on his retirement in May 2008. Farage represented the secessionist subgroup, and Sinnott the reformist subgroup. The leadership was loose, enabling the two subgroups to unite around the broad principles of democracy and transparency which were embodied in its statute and to which IND/DEM MEPs were expected to adhere. The day-to-day running of the group was performed by its secretariat, and its secretaries-general were Claudine Vangrunderbeeck and Herman Verheirstraeten.\n\nAfter the 2009 European Parliament elections, 18 IND/DEM MEPs (too few for a viable group) were elected as follows:\n\nIND/DEM member parties as of 24 July 2008 were as follows:\n\nA December 2007 European Parliament document considered the groups. Page 9 of that document had a table. That table gave the number of MEPs for each group and member state at December 2007. That table's data for IND/DEM is depicted as percentages in the diagram on the right.\n\nSuch support for IND/DEM as was expressed came from Northern European states, with especial reference to the member states of the North-West. Its strongholds were Sweden and Denmark, who sent \"June list\" MEPs from June List and June Movement to the Parliament, and the United Kingdom, with 13% of its MEPs at December 2007 coming from UKIP and sitting with IND/DEM. As of December 2007 no member state had more than 13% of its MEPs sitting with IND/DEM and eighteen member states (Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Cyprus, Estonia, Finland, Germany, Hungary, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain) had none.\n\nThe IND/DEM MEPs at 20–23 July 2004 were as follows:\n\nActivities performed by IND/DEM in the period between 1 June 2004 and 1 June 2008 that resulted in an entry on Google News include: \n\nThe debates and votes in the European Parliament are tracked by its website and categorised by the Groups that participate in them and the rule of procedure that they fall into. The results give a profile for each Group by category and the total indicates the Group's level of participation in Parliamentary debates. The activity profile for each Group for the period 1 August 2004 to 1 August 2008 in the Sixth European Parliament is given on the diagram on the right. IND/DEM is denoted in orange.\n\nThe website shows IND/DEM as participating in 43 motions, making it one of the most inactive Groups during the period.\n\nIND/DEM publications included the Prague Declaration of October 2005, which restated their disapproval of the Constitution Treaty and belief that the values it embodied should not be resurrected, and the Delphi Declaration of July 2007, which made similar points concerning the Treaty of Lisbon. IND/DEM also published a newsletter called EU Watch, which gave a eurosceptic view on the EU activities of the day.\n\nAlong with the other political groups, IND/DEM was analysed by academics on its positions regarding various issues. Those positions are summarised in this article. That article characterised IND/DEM as right-wing and/or Eurosceptics who cooperated most closely with the Non-Inscrits, were unanimously opposed to hypothetical EU taxes, over 90% male, and against Turkish accession to the European Union.\n\n"}
{"id": "37062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37062", "title": "Industrial Workers of the World", "text": "Industrial Workers of the World\n\nThe Industrial Workers of the World (IWW), members of which are commonly termed \"Wobblies\", is an international labor union that was founded in 1905 in Chicago, Illinois, in the United States. The union combines general unionism with industrial unionism, as it is a general union whose members are further organized within the industry of their employment. The philosophy and tactics of the IWW are described as \"revolutionary industrial unionism\", with ties to both socialist and anarchist labor movements.\n\nIn the 1910s and early 1920s, the IWW achieved many of their short-term goals, particularly in the American West, and cut across traditional guild and union lines to organize workers in a variety of trades and industries. At their peak in August 1917, IWW membership was more than 150,000, with active wings in the U.S., Canada and Australia. The extremely high rate of IWW membership turnover during this era (estimated at 133% per decade) makes it difficult for historians to state membership totals with any certainty, as workers tended to join the IWW in large numbers for relatively short periods (e.g., during labor strikes and periods of generalized economic distress).\n\nDue to several factors, membership declined dramatically in the late 1910s and 1920s. There were conflicts with other labor groups, particularly the American Federation of Labor (AFL), which regarded the IWW as too radical, while the IWW regarded the AFL as too conservative and dividing workers by craft. Membership also declined due to government crackdowns on radical, anarchist and socialist groups during the First Red Scare after World War I. In Canada the IWW was outlawed by the federal government.\n\nProbably the most decisive factor in the decline in IWW membership and influence, however, was a 1924 schism in the organization, from which the IWW never fully recovered.\n\nThe IWW promotes the concept of \"One Big Union\", and contends that all workers should be united as a social class to supplant capitalism and wage labor with industrial democracy. They are known for the Wobbly Shop model of workplace democracy, in which workers elect their managers and other forms of grassroots democracy (self-management) are implemented. IWW membership does not require that one work in a represented workplace, nor does it exclude membership in another labor union.\n\nIn 2012, the IWW moved its General Headquarters offices to 2036 West Montrose, Chicago. The origin of the nickname \"Wobblies\" is uncertain.\n\nThe IWW was founded in Chicago, Illinois in the United States in June 1905. A convention was held of 200 socialists, anarchists, Marxists (primarily members of the Socialist Party of America and Socialist Labor Party) radical trade unionists from all over the United States (mainly the Western Federation of Miners) who strongly opposed the policies of the American Federation of Labor (AFL). The IWW opposed the American Federation of Labor's acceptance of capitalism and its refusal to include unskilled workers in craft unions.\n\nThe convention had taken place on June 24, 1905, and was referred to as the \"Industrial Congress\" or the \"Industrial Union Convention\". It would later be known as the First Annual Convention of the IWW. It later became considered one of the most important events in the history of industrial unionism.\n\nThe IWW's founders included William D. (\"Big Bill\") Haywood, James Connolly, Daniel De Leon, Eugene V. Debs, Thomas Hagerty, Lucy Parsons, Mary Harris \"Mother\" Jones, Frank Bohn, William Trautmann, Vincent Saint John, Ralph Chaplin, and many others.\n\nRegardless of gender roles, men and women came together to create IWW. Post-industrial theorists concentrated on hierarchies of class, rather than those of gender and, like their predecessors, the new theorists of technology also fail to consider whether this technological revolution might have a different impact on women and men.\n\nThe IWW aimed to promote worker solidarity in the revolutionary struggle to overthrow the employing class; its motto was \"an injury to one is an injury to all\", which improved upon the Knights of Labor's creed, \"an injury to one is the concern of all\" which was at its most popular in the 1880s. In particular, the IWW was organized because of the belief among many unionists, socialists, anarchists, Marxists, and radicals that the AFL not only had failed to effectively organize the U.S. working class, but it was causing separation rather than unity within groups of workers by organizing according to narrow craft principles. The Wobblies believed that all workers should organize as a class, a philosophy which is still reflected in the Preamble to the current IWW Constitution:\n\nThe working class and the employing class have nothing in common. There can be no peace so long as hunger and want are found among millions of the working people and the few, who make up the employing class, have all the good things of life.\n\nBetween these two classes a struggle must go on until the workers of the world organize as a class, take possession of the means of production, abolish the wage system, and live in harmony with the Earth.\n\nWe find that the centering of the management of industries into fewer and fewer hands makes the trade unions unable to cope with the ever growing power of the employing class. The trade unions foster a state of affairs which allows one set of workers to be pitted against another set of workers in the same industry, thereby helping defeat one another in wage wars. Moreover, the trade unions aid the employing class to mislead the workers into the belief that the working class have interests in common with their employers.\n\nThese conditions can be changed and the interest of the working class upheld only by an organization formed in such a way that all its members in any one industry, or in all industries if necessary, cease work whenever a strike or lockout is on in any department thereof, thus making an injury to one an injury to all.\n\nInstead of the conservative motto, \"A fair day's wage for a fair day's work,\" we must inscribe on our banner the revolutionary watchword, \"Abolition of the wage system.\"\n\nIt is the historic mission of the working class to do away with capitalism. The army of production must be organized, not only for everyday struggle with capitalists, but also to carry on production when capitalism shall have been overthrown. By organizing industrially we are forming the structure of the new society within the shell of the old.\nThe Wobblies, as they were informally known, differed from other union movements of the time by promotion of industrial unionism, as opposed to the craft unionism of the American Federation of Labor. The IWW emphasized rank-and-file organization, as opposed to empowering leaders who would bargain with employers on behalf of workers. The early IWW chapters' consistently refused to sign contracts, which they believed would restrict workers' abilities to aid each other when called upon. Though never developed in any detail, Wobblies envisioned the general strike as the means by which the wage system would be overthrown and a new economic system ushered in, one which emphasized people over profit, cooperation over competition.\n\nOne of the IWW's most important contributions to the labor movement and broader push towards social justice was that, when founded, it was the only American union to welcome all workers, including women, immigrants, African Americans and Asians, into the same organization. Many of its early members were immigrants, and some, such as Carlo Tresca, Joe Hill and Elizabeth Gurley Flynn, rose to prominence in the leadership. Finns formed a sizeable portion of the immigrant IWW membership. \"Conceivably, the number of Finns belonging to the I.W.W. was somewhere between five and ten thousand.\" The Finnish-language newspaper of the IWW, \"Industrialisti\", published in Duluth, Minnesota, a center of the mining industry, was the union's only daily paper. At its peak, it ran 10,000 copies per issue. Another Finnish-language Wobbly publication was the monthly \"Tie Vapauteen\" (\"Road to Freedom\"). Also of note was the Finnish IWW educational institute, the Work People's College in Duluth, and the Finnish Labour Temple in Port Arthur, Ontario, Canada, which served as the IWW Canadian administration for several years. One example of the union's commitment to equality was Local 8, a longshoremen's branch in Philadelphia, one of the largest ports in the nation in the WWI era. Led by Ben Fletcher, an African American, Local 8 had more than 5,000 members, the majority of whom were African American, along with more than a thousand immigrants (primarily Lithuanians and Poles), Irish Americans, and numerous white ethnics.\n\nThe IWW was condemned by politicians and the press, who saw them as a threat to the market systems as well as an effort to monopolize labor at a time when efforts to monopolize industries were being fought as anti-market. Factory owners would employ means both non-violent (sending in Salvation Army bands to drown out speakers) and violent to disrupt their meetings. Members were often arrested and sometimes killed for making public speeches, but this persecution only inspired activism.\n\nIn 1908 a group led by Daniel DeLeon argued that political action through DeLeon's Socialist Labor Party (SLP) was the best way to attain the IWW's goals. The other faction, led by Vincent Saint John, William Trautmann, and Big Bill Haywood, believed that direct action in the form of strikes, propaganda, and boycotts was more likely to accomplish sustainable gains for working people; they were opposed to arbitration and to political affiliation. Haywood's faction prevailed, and De Leon and his supporters left the organization, forming their own version of the IWW. The SLP's \"Yellow IWW\" eventually took the name Workers' International Industrial Union, which was disbanded in 1924.\n\nThe IWW first attracted attention in Goldfield, Nevada in 1906 and during the Pressed Steel Car Strike of 1909 at McKees Rocks, Pennsylvania. Further fame was gained later that year, when they took their stand on free speech. The town of Spokane, Washington had outlawed street meetings, and arrested Elizabeth Gurley Flynn, a Wobbly organizer, for breaking this ordinance. The response was simple but effective: when a fellow member was arrested for speaking, large numbers of people descended on the location and invited the authorities to arrest all of them, until it became too expensive for the town. In Spokane, over 500 people went to jail and four people died. The tactic of fighting for free speech to popularize the cause and preserve the right to organize openly was used effectively in Fresno, Aberdeen, and other locations. In San Diego, although there was no particular organizing campaign at stake, vigilantes supported by local officials and powerful businessmen mounted a particularly brutal counter-offensive.\nBy 1912 the organization had around 25,000 members, concentrated in the Northwest, among dock workers, agricultural workers in the central states, and in textile and mining areas. The IWW was involved in over 150 strikes, including the Lawrence textile strike (1912), the Paterson silk strike (1913) and the Mesabi range (1916). They were also involved in what came to be known as the Wheatland Hop Riot on August 3, 1913.\n\nIn its first decades, the IWW created more than 900 unions located in more than 350 cities and towns in 38 states and territories of the United States and 5 Canadian provinces. Throughout the country, there were 90 newspapers and periodicals affiliated with the IWW, published in 19 different languages. Members of the IWW were active throughout the country and were involved in the Seattle General Strike, were arrested or killed in the Everett Massacre, organized among Mexican workers in the Southwest, became a largest and powerful longshoremen's union in Philadelphia, and more.\n\nThe IWW assumed a prominent role in 1906 and 1907, in the gold-mining boom town of Goldfield, Nevada. At that time, the Western Federation of Miners was still an affiliate of the IWW (the WFM withdrew from the IWW in the summer of 1907). In 1906, the IWW became so powerful in Goldfield that it could dictate wages and working conditions. \n\nResisting IWW domination was the AFL-affiliated Carpenters Union. In March 1907, the IWW demanded that the mines deny employment to AFL Carpenters, which led mine owners to challenge the IWW. The mine owners banded together and pledged not to employ any IWW members. The mine and business owners of Goldfield staged a lockout, vowing to remain shut until they had broken the power of the IWW. The lockout prompted a split within the Goldfield workforce, between conservative and radical union members.\n\nThe mine owners persuaded the Nevada governor to ask for federal troops. Under the protection of federal troops, the mine owners reopened the mines with non-union labor, breaking the influence of the IWW in Goldfield.\n\nLeaders of the Western Federation of Miners such as Bill Haywood and Vincent St. John were instrumental in forming the IWW, and the WFM affiliated with the new union organization shortly after the IWW was formed. The WFM became the IWW's \"mining section.\" However, many in the rank and file of the WFM were uncomfortable with the open radicalism of the IWW, and wanted the WFM to maintain its independence. Schisms between the WFM and IWW had emerged at the annual IWW convention in 1906, when a majority of WFM delegates walked out.\n\nWhen WFM executives Bill Haywood, George Pettibone, and Charles Moyer were accused of complicity in the murder of former Idaho governor Frank Steunenberg, the IWW used the case to raise funds and support, and paid for the legal defense. However, even the not guilty verdicts worked against the IWW, because the IWW was deprived of martyrs, and at the same time, a large portion of the public remained convinced of the guilt of the accused. The trials caused a bitter split between Haywood and Moyer. The Haywood trial also provoked a reaction within the WFM against violence and radicalism. In the summer of 1907, the WFM withdrew from the IWW, Vincent St. John left the WFM to spend his time organizing the IWW.\n\nBill Haywood for a time remained a member of both organizations. His murder trial had made Haywood a celebrity, and he was in demand as a speaker for the WFM. However, his increasingly radical speeches became more at odds with the WFM, and in April 1908, the WFM announced that the union had ended Haywood's role as a union representative. Haywood left the WFM, and devoted all his time to organizing for the IWW.\n\nHistorian Vernon H. Jensen has asserted that the IWW had a \"rule or ruin\" policy, under which it attempted to wreck local unions which it could not control. From 1908 to 1921, Jensen and others have written, the IWW attempted to win power in WFM locals which had once formed the federation's backbone. When it could not do so, IWW agitators undermined WFM locals, which caused the national union to shed nearly half its membership.\n\nThe Western Federation of Miners left the IWW in 1907, but the IWW wanted the WFM back. The WFM had made up about a third of the IWW membership, and the western miners were tough union men, and good allies in a labor dispute. In 1908, Vincent St. John tried to organize a stealth takeover of the WFM. He wrote to WFM organizer Albert Ryan, encouraging him to find reliable IWW sympathizers at each WFM local, and have them appointed delegates to the annual convention by pretending to share whatever opinions of that local needed to become a delegate. Once at the convention, they could vote in a pro-IWW slate. St. Vincent promised: “… once we can control the officers of the WFM for the IWW, the big bulk of the membership will go with them.” But the takeover did not succeed.\n\nIn 1914, Butte, Montana erupted into a series of riots as miners dissatisfied with the Western Federation of Miners local at Butte formed a new union, and demanded that all miners join the new union, or be subject to beatings or worse. Although the new rival union had no affiliation with the IWW, it was widely seen as IWW-inspired. The leadership of the new union contained many who were members of the IWW, or agreed with the IWW's methods and objectives. However, the new union failed to supplant the WFM, and the ongoing fight between the two factions had the result that the copper mines of Butte, which had long been a union stronghold for the WFM, became open shops, and the mine owners recognized no union from 1914 until 1934.\n\nThe IWW clashed with the United Mine Workers union in April 1916, when the IWW picketed the anthracite mines around Scranton, Pennsylvania, intending, by persuasion or force, to keep UMWA members from going to work. The IWW considered the UMWA too reactionary, because the United Mine Workers negotiated contracts with the mine owners for fixed time periods; the IWW considered that contracts hindered their revolutionary goals. In what a contemporary writer pointed out was a complete reversal of their usual policy, UMWA officials called for police to protect United Mine Workers members who wished to cross the picket lines. The Pennsylvania State Police arrived in force, prevented picket line violence, and allowed the UMWA members to peacefully pass through the IWW picket lines.\n\nBetween 1915 and 1917, the IWW's Agricultural Workers Organization (AWO) organized more than a hundred thousand migratory farm workers throughout the Midwest and western United States, often signing up and organizing members in the field, in rail yards and in hobo jungles. During this time, the IWW member became synonymous with the hobo riding the rails; migratory farmworkers could scarcely afford any other means of transportation to get to the next jobsite. Railroad boxcars, called \"side door coaches\" by the hobos, were frequently plastered with silent agitators from the IWW.\n\nBuilding on the success of the AWO, the IWW's Lumber Workers Industrial Union (LWIU) used similar tactics to organize lumberjacks and other timber workers, both in the deep South and the Pacific Northwest of the United States and Canada, between 1917 and 1924. The IWW lumber strike of 1917 led to the eight-hour day and vastly improved working conditions in the Pacific Northwest. Even though mid-century historians would give credit to the US Government and \"forward thinking lumber magnates\" for agreeing to such reforms, an IWW strike forced these concessions.\n\nFrom 1913 through the mid-1930s, the IWW's Marine Transport Workers Industrial Union (MTWIU), proved a force to be reckoned with and competed with AFL unions for ascendance in the industry. Given the union's commitment to international solidarity, its efforts and success in the field come as no surprise. Local 8 of the Marine Transport Workers was led by Ben Fletcher, who organized predominantly African-American longshoremen on the Philadelphia and Baltimore waterfronts, but other leaders included the Swiss immigrant Walter Nef, Jack Walsh, E.F. Doree, and the Spanish sailor Manuel Rey. The IWW also had a presence among waterfront workers in Boston, New York City, New Orleans, Houston, San Diego, Los Angeles, San Francisco, Eureka, Portland, Tacoma, Seattle, Vancouver as well as in ports in the Caribbean, Mexico, South America, Australia, New Zealand, Germany and other nations. IWW members played a role in the 1934 San Francisco general strike and the other organizing efforts by rank-and-filers within the International Longshoremen's Association up and down the West Coast.\n\nWobblies also played a role in the sit-down strikes and other organizing efforts by the United Auto Workers in the 1930s, particularly in Detroit, though they never established a strong union presence there.\n\nWhere the IWW did win strikes, such as in Lawrence, they often found it hard to hold onto their gains. The IWW of 1912 disdained collective bargaining agreements and preached instead the need for constant struggle against the boss on the shop floor. It proved difficult, however, to maintain that sort of revolutionary enthusiasm against employers. In Lawrence, the IWW lost nearly all of its membership in the years after the strike, as the employers wore down their employees' resistance and eliminated many of the strongest union supporters. In 1938, the IWW voted to allow contracts with employers, so long as they would not undermine any strike.\n\nThe IWW's efforts were met with \"unparalleled\" resistance from Federal, state and local governments in America; from company management and labor spies, and from groups of citizens functioning as vigilantes. In 1914, Wobbly Joe Hill (born Joel Hägglund) was accused of murder in Utah and, on what many regarded as flimsy evidence, was executed in 1915. On November 5, 1916 at Everett, Washington a group of deputized businessmen led by Sheriff Donald McRae attacked Wobblies on the steamer \"Verona\", killing at least five union members (six more were never accounted for and probably were lost in Puget Sound). Two members of the police force — one a regular officer and another a deputized citizen from the National Guard Reserve — were killed, probably by \"friendly fire\". At least five Everett civilians were wounded.\n\nMany IWW members opposed United States participation in World War I. The organization passed a resolution against the war at its convention in November 1916. This echoed the view, expressed at the IWW's founding convention, that war represents struggles among capitalists in which the rich become richer, and the working poor all too often die at the hands of other workers.\n\nAn IWW newspaper, the \"Industrial Worker\", wrote just before the U.S. declaration of war: \"Capitalists of America, we will fight against you, not for you! There is not a power in the world that can make the working class fight if they refuse.\" Yet when a declaration of war was passed by the U.S. Congress in April 1917, the IWW's general secretary-treasurer Bill Haywood became determined that the organization should adopt a low profile in order to avoid perceived threats to its existence. The printing of anti-war stickers was discontinued, stockpiles of existing anti-war documents were put into storage, and anti-war propagandizing ceased as official union policy. After much debate on the General Executive Board, with Haywood advocating a low profile and GEB member Frank Little championing continued agitation, Ralph Chaplin brokered a compromise agreement. A statement was issued that denounced the war, but IWW members were advised to channel their opposition through the legal mechanisms of conscription. They were advised to register for the draft, marking their claims for exemption \"IWW, opposed to war.\"\n\nIn spite of the IWW moderating its vocal opposition, the IWW's antiwar stance made it highly unpopular. Frank Little, the IWW's most outspoken war opponent, was lynched in Butte, Montana in August 1917, just four months after war had been declared.\nDuring World War I the U.S. government moved strongly against the IWW. On September 5, 1917, U.S. Department of Justice agents made simultaneous raids on dozens of IWW meeting halls across the country. Minutes books, correspondence, mailing lists, and publications were seized, with the U.S. Department of Justice removing five tons of material from the IWW's General Office in Chicago alone. This seized material was scoured for possible violations of the Espionage Act of 1917 and other laws, with a view to future prosecution of the organization's leaders, organizers, and key activists.\n\nBased in large measure on the documents seized September 5, one hundred and sixty-six IWW leaders were indicted by a Federal Grand Jury in Chicago for conspiring to hinder the draft, encourage desertion, and intimidate others in connection with labor disputes, under the new Espionage Act. One hundred and one went on trial en masse before Judge Kenesaw Mountain Landis in 1918. Their lawyer was George Vanderveer of Seattle. They were all convicted — including those who had not been members of the union for years — and given prison terms of up to twenty years. Sentenced to prison by Judge Landis and released on bail, Haywood fled to the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic where he remained until his death.\n\nIn 1917, during an incident known as the Tulsa Outrage, a group of black-robed Knights of Liberty, a short-lived faction of the Ku Klux Klan, tarred and feathered seventeen members of the IWW in Oklahoma. The IWW members had been turned over to the Knights of Liberty by local authorities after they were convicted of the crime of not owning war bonds. Five other men who testified in defense of the Wobblies were also fined by the court and subjected to the same torture and humiliations at the hands of the Knights of Liberty.\n\nIn 1919, an Armistice Day parade by the American Legion in Centralia, Washington turned into a fight between legionnaires and IWW members in which four legionnaires and a Centralia deputy sheriff were shot dead. Which side initiated the violence of the Centralia massacre is disputed. A number of IWWs were arrested, one of whom, Wesley Everest, was lynched by a mob that night.\n\nMembers of the IWW were prosecuted under various State and federal laws and the 1920 Palmer Raids singled out the foreign-born members of the organization.\n\nIWW quickly recovered from the setbacks of 1919 and 1920, with membership peaking in 1923 (58,300 estimated by dues paid per capita, though membership was likely much higher as the union tolerated delinquent members). By 1924, membership began declining due to government repression and a contentious organizational schism, when the organization split between the \"Westerners\" and the \"Easterners\" over a number of issues, including the role of the General Administration (often oversimplified as a struggle between \"centralists\" and \"decentralists\"), Stalinist atrocities in the Soviet Union and attempts by the Communist Party to dominate the organization. By 1930 membership was down to around 10,000.\n\nAt the beginning of the 1949 Smith Act trials, FBI director J. Edgar Hoover was disappointed when prosecutors indicted fewer CPUSA members than he had hoped, and – recalling the arrests and convictions of over one hundred IWW leaders in 1917 – complained to the Justice Department, stating, \"the IWW was crushed and never revived, similar action at this time would have been as effective against the Communist Party.\"\n\nAfter the passage of the Taft-Hartley Act in 1946 by Congress, which called for the removal of Communist union leadership, the IWW experienced a loss of membership as differences of opinion occurred over how to respond to the challenge. In 1949, US Attorney General Tom C. Clark placed the IWW on the Attorney General's List of Subversive Organizations in the category of \"organizations seeking to change the government by unconstitutional means\" under Executive Order 9835, which offered no means of appeal, and which excluded all IWW members from Federal employment and federally subsidized housing programs (this order was revoked by Executive Order 10450 in 1953).\n\nAt this time, the Cleveland local of the Metal and Machinery Workers Industrial Union (MMWIU) was the strongest IWW branch in the United States. Leading figures such as Frank Cedervall, who had helped build the branch up for over ten years, were concerned about the possibility of raiding from AFL-CIO unions if the IWW had its legal status as a union revoked. In 1950, Cedervall led the 1500-member MMWIU national organization to split from the IWW, as the Lumber Workers Industrial Union had almost thirty years earlier. Unfortunately for the MMWIU, this act would not save it. Despite its brief affiliation with the Congress of Industrial Organizations, it would face serious raiding from AFL and CIO and would be defunct by the late 1950s, less than ten years after separating from the IWW.\n\nThe loss of the MMWIU, at the time the IWW's largest industrial union, was almost a deathblow to the IWW. The union's membership fell to its lowest level in the 1950s during the Second Red Scare, and by 1955, the union's fiftieth anniversary, it was near extinction, though it still appeared on government lists of Communist-led groups.\n\nThe 1960s civil rights movement, anti-war protests, and various university student movements brought new life to the IWW, albeit with many fewer new members than the great organizing drives of the early part of the 20th century.\n\nThe first signs of new life for the IWW in the 1960s would be organizing efforts among students in San Francisco and Berkeley, which were hotbeds of student radicalism at the time. This targeting of students would result in a Bay Area branch of the union with over a hundred members in 1964, almost as many as the union's total membership in 1961. Wobblies old and new would unite for one more \"free speech fight\": Berkeley's Free Speech Movement. Riding on this high, the decision in 1967 to allow college and university students to join the Education Workers Industrial Union (IU 620) as full members spurred campaigns in 1968 at the University of Waterloo in Ontario, the University of Wisconsin in Milwaukee, and the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor. The IWW would send representatives to Students for a Democratic Society conventions in 1967, 1968, and 1969, and as the SDS collapsed into infighting, the IWW would gain members who were fleeing this discord. These changes would have a profound effect on the union, which by 1972 would have sixty-seven percent of members under the age of thirty, with a total of nearly five hundred members.\n\nThe IWW's links to the 60s counterculture led to organizing campaigns at counterculture businesses, as well as a wave of over two dozen co-ops affiliating with the IWW under its Wobbly Shop model in the 1960s to 1980s. These businesses were primarily in printing, publishing, and food distribution; from underground newspapers and radical print shops to community co-op grocery stores. Some of the printing and publishing industry co-ops and job shops included Black & Red (Detroit), Glad Day Press (New York), RPM Press (Michigan), New Media Graphics (Ohio), Babylon Print (Wisconsin), Hill Press (Illinois), Lakeside (Madison, Wisconsin), Harbinger (Columbia, South Carolina), Eastown Printing in Grand Rapids, Michigan (where the IWW negotiated a contract in 1978), and La Presse Populaire (Montréal). This close affiliation with radical publishers and printing houses sometimes led to legal difficulties for the union, such as when La Presse Populaire was shut down in 1970 by provincial police for publishing pro-FLQ materials, which were banned at the time under an official censorship law. Also in 1970, the San Diego, California \"street journal\" \"El Barrio\" became an official IWW shop. In 1971 its office was attacked by a fascist organization calling itself the Minutemen, and IWW member Ricardo Gonzalves was indicted for criminal syndicalism along with two members of the Brown Berets.\n\nThese ties to anti-authoritarian and radical artistic and literary currents would link the IWW even more heavily to the 60s counterculture, exemplified by the publication in Chicago in the 1960s of \"Rebel Worker\" by the surrealists Franklin and Penelope Rosemont. One edition was published in London with Charles Radcliffe, who went on to become involved with the Situationist International. By the 1980s, the \"Rebel Worker\" was being published as an official organ again, from the IWW's headquarters in Chicago, and the New York area was publishing a newsletter as well.\n\nInvigorated by the arrival of enthusiastic new members, the IWW began a wave of organizing drives. These largely took a regional form and they, as well as the union's overall membership, concentrated in Portland, Chicago, Ann Arbor, and throughout the state of California, which when combined accounted for over half of union drives from 1970 to 1979. In Portland, Oregon, the IWW led campaigns at Winter Products (a brass plating plant) in 1972, at a local Winchell's Donuts (where a strike was waged and lost), at the Albina Day Care (where key union demands were won, including the firing of the director of the day care), of healthcare workers at West Side School and the Portland Medical Center, and of agricultural workers in 1974. The latter effort led to the founding of an IWW union hall in Burnside, Oregon to compete with extortionate hiring halls and day labor agencies. Organizing efforts led to a growth in membership, but repeated loss of strikes and organizing campaigns would anticipate the decline of the Portland branch after the mid-1970s, a stagnancy period which would last until the 1990s.\n\nIn California, union activities were based in Santa Cruz, where in 1977 the IWW engaged in one of its most ambitious campaigns of the 1970s: an attempt in 1977 to organize 3,000 workers hired under the Comprehensive Employment and Training Act (CETA) in Santa Cruz County. The campaign led to pay raises, the implementation of a grievance procedure, and medical and dental coverage, but the union failed to maintain its foothold, and in 1982 the CETA program would be replaced by the Job Training Partnership Act. The IWW would win some lasting victories in Santa Cruz, however, with successful campaigns at the Janus Alcohol Recovery Center, the Santa Cruz Law Center, Project Hope, and the Santa Cruz Community Switchboard.\n\nElsewhere in California, the IWW was active in Long Beach in 1972, the where it organized workers at International Wood Products and Park International Corporation (a manufacturer of plastic swimming pool filters) and went on strike after the firing of one worker for union-related activities. Finally, in San Francisco, the IWW ran campaigns for radio station and food service workers.\n\nIn Chicago, the IWW was an early opponent of so-called urban renewal programs (now more often termed as gentrification), and supported the creation of the \"Chicago People's Park\" in 1969. The Chicago branch also ran citywide campaigns for healthcare, food service, entertainment, construction, and metal workers, and its success with the latter led to an attempt to revive the national Metal and Machinery Workers Industrial Union, which twenty years earlier had been a major component of the union. Metalworker organizing would largely end in 1978 after a failed strike at Mid-American Metal in Virden, Illinois. The IWW also became one of the first unions to try to organize fast food workers, with an organizing campaign at a local McDonald's in 1973.\n\nThe IWW also built on its existing presence in Ann Arbor, which had existed since student organizing began at the University of Michigan, to launch an organizing campaign at the University Cellar, a college bookstore. The union won National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) certification there in 1979 following a strike, and the store would become a strong job shop for the union until it was closed in 1986. The union launched a similar campaign at another local bookstore, Charing Cross Books, but was unable to maintain its foothold there despite reaching a settlement with management.\n\nIn the late 1970s, the IWW came to regional prominence in entertainment industry organizing, with an Entertainment Workers Organizing Committee being founded in Chicago in 1976, followed by campaigns organizing musicians in Cleveland in 1977 and Ann Arbor in 1978. The Chicago committee published a model contract which was distributed to musicians in the hopes of raising industry standards, as well as maintaining an active phone line for booking information. IWW musicians such as Utah Phillips, Faith Petric, Bob Bovee, and Jim Ringer also toured and promoted the union, and in 1987 an anthology album, \"Rebel Voices\", was released.\n\nOther IWW organizing campaigns of the 1970s included a ShopRite supermarket in Milwaukee, at Coronet Foods in Wheeling, West Virginia, chemical and fast food workers (including KFC and Roy Rogers) in State College, Pennsylvania, and hospital workers in Boston, all in 1973;\nshipyards in Houston, Texas and restaurant workers in Pittsburgh in 1974; unsuccessful campaigns at the Prospect Nursing Home in Cambridge, Massachusetts and a Pizza Hut in Arkadelphia, Arkansas in 1975; and a construction workers organizing drive in Albuquerque, New Mexico in 1978.\n\nIn the 1990s, the IWW was involved in many labor struggles and free speech fights, including Redwood Summer, and the picketing of the Neptune Jade in the port of Oakland in late 1997.\n\nIn 1996, the IWW launched an organizing drive against Borders Books in Philadelphia. In March, the union lost an NLRB certification vote by a narrow margin but continued to organize. In June, IWW member Miriam Fried was fired on trumped-up charges and a national boycott of Borders was launched in response. IWW members picketed at Borders stores nationwide, including Ann Arbor; Washington, D.C.; San Francisco; Miami; Chicago; Palo Alto; Portland, OR; Portland, ME; Boston; Philadelphia; Albany; Richmond; St. Louis; Los Angeles; and other cities. This was followed up with a National Day of Action in 1997, where Borders stores were again picketed nationwide, and a second organizing campaign in London, England.\n\nAlso in 1996, the IWW began organizing at Wherehouse Music in El Cerrito, California. The campaign continued until 1997, when management fired two organizers and laid off over half the employees, as well as reducing the hours of known union members. This directly affected the NLRB certification vote which followed, where the IWW lost over 2:1.\n\nIn 1998, the IWW chartered a San Francisco branch of the Marine Transport Workers Industrial Union (MTWIU), which trained hundreds of waterfront workers in health and safety techniques and attempted to institutionalize these safety practices on the San Francisco waterfront.\n\nIn 1999, the IWW chartered a local branch of the Education Workers Industrial Union in Boston, Massachusetts, which started to organize workers at local colleges and universities.\n\nAdditionally, IWW organizing drives in the late 90s included a strike at the Lincoln Park Mini Mart in Seattle in 1996, Keystone Job Corps, the community organization ACORN, various homeless and youth centers in Portland, Oregon, sex industry workers, and recycling shops in Berkeley, California. IWW members were also active in the building trades, shipyards, high tech industries, hotels and restaurants, public interest organizations, railroads, bike messengers, and lumber yards.\n\nThe IWW stepped in several times to help the rank and file in mainstream unions, including saw mill workers in Fort Bragg in California in 1989, concession stand workers in the San Francisco Bay Area in the late 1990s, and shipyards along the Mississippi River.\n\nIn the early 2000s, the IWW organized Stonemountain and Daughter Fabrics, a fabric shop in Berkeley, California. The shop continues to remain an IWW organized shop.\n\nThe city of Berkeley's recycling is picked up, sorted, processed and sent out all through two different IWW-organized enterprises.\n\nIn 2003, the IWW began organizing street people and other non-traditional occupations with the formation of the Ottawa Panhandlers Union. A year later, the Panhandlers Union led a strike by the homeless. Negotiations with the city resulted in the city government promising to fund a newspaper written and sold by the homeless.\n\nBetween 2003 and 2006, the IWW organized unions at food co-operatives in Seattle, Washington and Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. The IWW represents administrative and maintenance workers under contract in Seattle, while the union in Pittsburgh lost 22–21 in an NLRB election, only to have the results invalidated in late 2006, based on management's behavior before the election.\n\nIn 2004, an IWW union was organized in a New York City Starbucks. In 2006, the IWW continued efforts at Starbucks by organizing several Chicago area shops.\n\nIn Chicago the IWW began an effort to organize bicycle messengers with some success.\n\nIn September 2004, IWW-organized short haul truck drivers in Stockton, California walked off their jobs and went on a strike. Nearly all demands were met. Despite early victories in Stockton, the truck driver union ceased to exist in mid-2005.\n\nIn New York City, the IWW has been organizing immigrant foodstuffs workers since 2005. That summer, workers from Handyfat Trading joined the IWW, and were soon followed by workers from four more warehouses. Workers at these warehouses made gains such as receiving the minimum wage and being paid overtime.\n\nIn 2006, the IWW moved its headquarters to Cincinnati, Ohio, and in 2010, headquarters was moved back to Chicago, Illinois.\n\nAlso in 2006, the IWW Bay Area Branch organized the Landmark Shattuck Cinemas. The Union has been negotiating for a contract and hopes to gain one through workplace democracy and organizing directly and taking action when necessary.\n\nIn May 2007, the NYC warehouse workers came together with the Starbucks Workers Union to form The Food and Allied Workers Union IU 460/640. In the summer of 2007, the IWW organized workers at two new warehouses: Flaum Appetizing, a Kosher food distributor, and Wild Edibles, a seafood company. Over the course of 2007–08, workers at both shops were illegally terminated for their union activity. In 2008, the workers at Wild Edibles actively fought to get their jobs back and to secure overtime pay owed to them by the boss. In a workplace justice campaign called Focus on the Food Chain, carried out jointly with Brandworkers International, the IWW workers won settlements against employers including Pur Pac, Flaum Appetizing and Wild Edibles.\n\nBesides IWW's traditional practice of organizing industrially, the Union has been open to new methods such as organizing geographically: for instance, seeking to organize retail workers in a certain business district, as in Philadelphia.\n\nThe union has also participated in such worker-related issues as protesting involvement in the war in Iraq, opposing sweatshops and supporting a boycott of Coca Cola for that company's support of the suppression of workers rights in Colombia.\n\nOn July 5, 2008, the Grand Rapids, Michigan, Starbucks Workers Union and CNT-AIT in Seville, Spain, organized a global day of action against alleged Starbucks union busting, in particular the firing of two union members in Grand Rapids and Seville. According to the Grand Rapids Starbucks Workers Union website, pickets were held in several dozen cities in more than a dozen countries.\nThe Portland, Oregon General Membership Branch is one of the largest and most active branches of the IWW currently. The branch holds three contracts currently, two with Janus Youth Programs and one with Portland Women's Crisis Line. There has been some debate within the branch about whether or not union contracts such as this are desirable in the long run, with some members favoring solidarity unionism as opposed to contract unionism and some members believing there is room for both strategies for organizing. The branch has successfully supported workers wrongfully fired from several different workplaces in the last two years. Due to picketing by Wobblies, these workers have received significant compensation from their former employers. Branch membership has been increasing, as has shop organizing. As of 2005, the 100th anniversary of its founding, the IWW had around 5,000 members, compared to 13 million members in the AFL-CIO. Other IWW branches are located in Australia, Austria, Canada, Ireland, Germany, Uganda and the United Kingdom.\n\nIn early 2011, Wisconsin Governor Scott Walker announced a budget bill which the IWW held would effectively outlaw unions for state or municipal workers. In response, there was an emergency meeting of the Midwestern IWW member organizations. The participants decided that organizing a general strike was an absolute priority. IWW members presented a proposal at a meeting of South-Central Federation of Labor (SCFL) which would endorse a general strike and create an ad-hoc Committee to instruct affiliated locals in preparations for the general strike. The IWW proposal passed nearly unanimously. The Madison branch made an international appeal translating various materials concerning the strike into Arabic, French, Spanish, Italian and Portuguese. Additionally, an appeal was made to European unions (CNT – Spain, CGT – Spain and CGT – France) to send organizers to Madison who could present their experience of general strikes at union meetings and help organize the strike in other ways. The CNT (France) sent letters of solidarity to the IWW. This was considered the largest and most successful intervention in a working-class struggle that the IWW has undertaken since the 1930s. In the aftermath, the strike was said by some to be 'The General Strike that didn't happen' because eventually ongoing efforts at industrial action were \"completely overwhelmed by the recall effort\" against the governor during the crisis.\n\nIn 2012, the IWW moved its General Headquarters offices to 2036 West Montrose, Chicago.\n\nThe IWW waged an organizing campaign at Chicago-Lake Liquors in Minneapolis, Minnesota in 2013. The store, which advertises itself as the highest-volume liquor store in Minnesota, had a wage cap of $10.50 per hour, but in the face of IWW demands for the wage cap to be lifted, store management fired five organizers. On April 6, the Twin Cities branch of the union responded with a picket around the store informing customers of the situation. This was followed by a second picket on May 4, a day which customarily had heavy business at the store. The union claimed to have made \"what should have been an extremely busy Saturday into a quiet afternoon inside the store\". After several months, the National Labor Relations Board announced that it found merit in the union's unfair dismissal complaint. As a result, the union and store management agreed to a $32,000 settlement as a form of compensation to the fired workers and the campaign officially ended.\n\nWorkers at the Paulo Freire Social Justice Charter School in Holyoke, Massachusetts were organized with the IWW in 2015, hoping to address the \"authoritarian leadership\" of the school administration and perceived racial bias in hiring.\n\nOn 14 September 2015, after a year long organizing campaign, workers at Sound Stage Production in North Haven Connecticut declared their membership in the IWW. Within a week they were threatened with legal action and fired. After several months of negotiation through the National Labor Relations Board, a settlement was reached and the workers agreed to back pay and severance compensation. As part of the campaign, the workers formed the Production Services Collective and continue as a workers cooperative and organizing with IWW-CT.\n\nThe IWW announced the Burgerville Workers Union (BVWU) in April 2016, which focuses on workers at the Oregon regional fast food chain, Burgerville. A subsidiary of the IWW, the BVWU went public on April 26 at a rally of workers and supporters outside a Portland, Oregon Burgerville location. Upon going public, the BVWU was endorsed by a number of local Oregon community organizations, including union locals, the Portland Solidarity Network, and food and racial justice organizations. It was also endorsed by then-Democratic presidential candidate Senator Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.). The union received pushback with a letter from Burgerville's CEO, Jeff Harvey, being distributed to workers discouraging them from joining the union. In June 2017, Burgerville paid a settlement of $10,000 after an investigation by the Oregon Bureau of Labor and Industries, which found that the company had violated state-mandated break periods for workers. In April and May 2018 the IWW won NLRB elections in 2 Burgerville Locations.\n\nIn August 2016, workers at Ellen's Stardust Diner in Manhattan formed Stardust Family United (SFU) under the IWW, driven by the firing of thirty employees, as well as an unpopular new scheduling system. After going public, the union accused Stardust management of retaliatory firings and posting anti-union materials in the restaurant.\n\nOn 9 September 2016, the 45th anniversary of the Attica Prison Riots, 900 incarcerated workers organized by the IWW and many other prisoners participated in the 9/9 National Prison Strike declared by the IWW's Incarcerated Workers Organizing Committee. Supported by a number of anti-incarceration and prisoners' organizations such as the Free Alabama Movement, the strike focused on the poor conditions in many American prisons and the low rates of prisoner pay for maintaining prisons and engaging in commercial production of goods for third-party companies. The strike affected an estimated twenty prisons in eleven states and had its epicenter at the William C. Holman Correctional Facility in Alabama. Estimates of the number of inmates affected range from 20,000, to 50,000, to as high as 72,000, with David Fathi of the ACLU National Prison Project judging it to be the \"largest prisoner strike in recent memory\". Initial media coverage was slow, with strike organizers complaining of a \"mainstream-media blackout\", which could be attributed to the difficulty in communicating with prisoners, as many prisons went on lockdown either in response to prisoner strike activity or in anticipation of it.\n\nOn December 3, 2016, the Raleigh-Durham Industrial Workers of the World participated in counter-demonstration & and disruption of the Loyal White Knights of the Ku Klux Klan in Pelham, NC and Danville, VA.\n\nAustralia encountered the IWW tradition early. In part this was due to the local De Leonist SLP following the industrial turn of the US SLP. The SLP formed an IWW Club in Sydney in October 1907. Members of other socialist groups also joined it, and the special relationship with the SLP soon proved to be a problem. The 1908 split between the Chicago and Detroit factions in the United States was echoed by internal unrest in the Australian IWW from late 1908, resulting in the formation of a pro-Chicago local in Adelaide in May 1911 and another in Sydney six months later. By mid-1913 the \"Chicago\" IWW was flourishing and the SLP-associated pro-Detroit IWW Club in decline. In 1916 the \"Detroit\" IWW in Australia followed the lead of the US body and renamed itself the Workers' International Industrial Union.\n\nThe early Australian IWW used a number of tactics from the US, including free speech fights. However, there early appeared significant differences of practice between the Australian IWW and its US parent; the Australian IWW tended to co-operate where possible with existing unions rather than forming its own, and in contrast with the US body took an extremely open and forthright stand against involvement in World War One. The IWW cooperated with many other unions, encouraging industrial unionism and militancy. In particular, the IWW's strategies had a large effect on the . The AMIEU established closed shops and workers councils and effectively regulated management behaviour toward the end of the 1910s.\nThe IWW was well known for opposing the First World War from 1914 onwards, and in many ways was at the front of the anti-conscription fight. A narrow majority of Australians voted against conscription in a very bitter hard-fought referendum in October 1916, and then again in December 1917, Australia being the only belligerent in World War One without conscription. In very significant part this was due to the agitation of the IWW, a group which probably never had as many as 500 members in Australia at its peak. The IWW founded the Anti-Conscription League (ACL) in which members worked with the broader labour and peace movement, and also carried on an aggressive propaganda campaign in its own name; leading to the imprisonment of Tom Barker (1887–1970) the editor of the IWW paper \"Direct Action\", sentenced to twelve months in March 1916. A series of arson attacks on commercial properties in Sydney was widely attributed to the IWW campaign to have Tom Barker released. He was indeed released in August 1916, but twelve mostly prominent IWW activists, the so-called Sydney Twelve were arrested in NSW in September 1916 for arson and other offences. (Their trial and eventual imprisonment would become a \"cause célèbre\" of the Australian labour movement on the basis that there was no convincing evidence that any of them had been involved in the arson attacks.) A number of other scandals were associated with the IWW, a five-pound note forgery scandal, the so-called Tottenham tragedy in which the murder of a police officer was blamed on the IWW, and above all it was blamed for the defeat of the October 1916 conscription referendum. In December 1916 the Commonwealth government led by Labour Party renegade Billy Hughes declared the IWW an illegal organization under the Unlawful Associations Act. Eighty six members immediately defied the law and were sentenced to six months imprisonment. \"Direct Action\" was suppressed, its circulation was at its peak of something over 12,000. During the war over 100 members Australia-wide were sentenced to imprisonment on political charges, including the veteran activist Monty Miller.\n\nThe IWW continued illegally operating with the aim of freeing its class war prisoners and briefly fused with two other radical tendencies – from the old Socialist parties and Trades Halls – to form a larval communist party at the suggestion of the militant revolutionist and Council Communist Adela Pankhurst. The IWW, however, left the CPA shortly after its formation.\n\nBy the 1930s the organisation in Australia had declined significantly, and took part in unemployed workers movements which were led largely by the CPA. The poet Harry Hooton became involved with it around this time. In 1939 the Australian IWW had four members, according to surveillance by government authorities, and these members were consistently opposed to the Second World War. After the Second World War, the IWW would become one of the influences on the Sydney Libertarians who were in turn a significant cultural and political influence\nToday the IWW still exists in Australia, in larger numbers than the 1940s, but due to the nature of the Australian industrial relations system, it is unlikely to win union representation in any workplaces in the immediate future. More significant is its continuing place in the mythology of the militant end of the Australian labour movement. As an extreme example of the integration of ex-IWW militants into the mainstream labour movement one might instance the career of Donald Grant, one of the Sydney Twelve sentenced to fifteen years imprisonment for conspiracy to commit arson and other crimes. Released from prison in August 1920 he would soon break with the IWW over its anti-political stand, standing for the NSW Parliament for the Industrial Socialist Labour Party unsuccessfully in 1922 and then in 1925 for the mainstream Australian Labor Party (ALP) also unsuccessfully. However, this reconciliation with the ALP and the electoral system did not prevent him being imprisoned again in 1927 for street demonstrations supporting Sacco and Vanzetti. He would eventually represent the ALP in the NSW Legislative Council in 1931–1940 and the Australian Senate 1943–1956. No other member of the Australian IWW actually entered Parliament but Grant's career is emblematic in the sense that the ex-IWW militants by and large remained in the broader labour movement, bringing some greater or lesser part of their heritage with them.\n\n\"Bump Me Into Parliament\" is the most notable Australian IWW song, and is still current. It was written by ship's fireman William \"Bill\" Casey, later Secretary of the Seaman's Union in Queensland.\n\nThe IWW was active in Canada from a very early point in the organization's history, especially in Western Canada, primarily in British Columbia. The union was active in organizing large swaths of the lumber and mining industry along the coast, in the Interior of BC, and Vancouver Island. Joe Hill wrote the song \"Where the Fraser River Flows\" during this period when the IWW was organizing in British Columbia. Some members of the IWW had relatively close links with the Socialist Party of Canada.\n\nArthur \"Slim\" Evans, organizer in the Relief Camp Workers' Union and the On-to-Ottawa Trek was once a Wobbly, although during the On-to-Ottawa Trek he was with the One Big Union. He was also a friend of another well-known Canadian, Ginger Goodwin, who was shot in Cumberland, British Columbia by a Dominion Police constable when he was resisting the First World War. The impact of Ginger Goodwin influenced various left and progressive groups in Canada, including a progressive group of MPs in the House of Commons called the Ginger Group.\n\nDespite the IWW being banned as a subversive organization in Canada during the First World War, the organization rebounded swiftly after being unbanned after the war, reaching a post-WWI high of 5600 Canadian members in 1923. The union entered a short \"golden age\" in Canada with an official Canadian Administration located at the Finnish Labour Temple in Port Arthur (now Thunder Bay, Ontario) and a strong base among immigrant labourers in Northern Ontario and Manitoba, especially Finns, which included harvest workers, lumberjacks, and miners. During this period, the IWW would compete for members with a number of other radical and socialist organizations such as the Finnish Organization of Canada (FOC), with the IWW's \"Industrialisti\" newspaper competing with the FOC's \"Vapaus\" for attention and readership. During this period. Membership slowly decreased during the 1920s and 30s despite continued organizing and strike activity as the IWW lost ground to the One Big Union and Communist Party-controlled organizations such as the Workers' Unity League (WUL). Despite this competition, the IWW and WUL cooperated during strikes, such as at the Abitibi Pulp & Paper Company near Sault Ste. Marie in 1933, where the Finnish workers in the IWW and WUL faced discrimination and violence from the Anglo citizens of the town. The IWW also successfully unionized Ritchie's Dairy in Toronto and formed a fishery workers' branch in MacDiarmid (now Greenstone, Ontario).\n\nIn 1936, the IWW in Canada supported the Spanish Revolution and began to recruit for the militia of the anarcho-syndicalist Confederación Nacional del Trabajo (CNT), in direct conflict with Communist Party recruiters for the Mackenzie-Papineau Battalion, a conflict which resulted in a number of violent clashes at recruitment rallies in Northern Ontario. Several Canadian IWW members were killed in the Spanish Civil War and the CNT's ensuing defeat at the hands of both Fascist and Stalinist forces. By the middle of the Second World War, IWW membership had dropped to 500, but had rebounded to 2000 by 1946. After this, the IWW entered a long period of decline, with the Canadian Administration slowly shrinking back to its traditional strongholds in Port Arthur and Vancouver, and becoming more of a social club and mutual aid society of mostly Finnish members in Port Arthur and the co-operative businesses they controlled. An Education Workers Industrial Union branch was established at the University of Waterloo in 1968, but failed to achieve success and dissolved. As well, in 1970 \"La Presse Populaire du Montréal\", an IWW-run print shop, was shut down under the War Measures Act due to its support for the FLQ during the October Crisis. As a sign of the times, the old Canadian Administration in Port Arthur was dissolved in 1973 and replaced by a Canadian Regional Organizing Committee, meaning that Canadian branches would be administrated by the General Administration in the United States. IWW activity in Canada began to shift largely toward strike support and labour activism, such as support for the Artistic Woodwork strike in Toronto in 1974. By the 80s, the Vancouver branch was supporting unemployed activism through the Vancouver Unemployed Action Centre by helping to shut down the scam operation Vancouver Job Mart and supporting the campaign for a fixed-income transit pass.\n\nBy the end of the 1990s, the IWW in Canada was following the general pattern of ascendancy, winning government recognition at Harvest Collective in Manitoba, the first shop certified in Canada since 1919. During the 2000s, branches were chartered in several new cities, and existing branches were revitalized. The dissolved Canadian Regional Organizing Committee was refounded in 2011.\n\nToday the IWW remains active in the country with branches in Vancouver, Vancouver Island, Edmonton, Winnipeg, Ottawa/Outaouais, Toronto, Windsor, Sherbrooke, Québec City and Montréal. The largest branch is currently in Montréal. In August 2009, Canadian members voted to ratify the constitution of the Canadian Regional Organizing Committee (CanROC) to improve inter-branch coordination and communication. Affiliated branches are Winnipeg, Ottawa-Outaouais, Toronto, Windsor, Sherbrooke, Montréal and Québec City. Each branch elects a representative to make decisions on the Canadian board. There were originally three officers, the Secretary-Treasurer, Organizing Department Liaison, and Editor of the Canadian Organizing Bulletin. In 2016, CanROC members voted to split the Secretary-Treasurer role into separate Regional Secretary and Regional Treasurer positions.\n\nThere are currently five job shops in Canada: Libra Knowledge and Information Services Co-op in Toronto, ParIT Workers Cooperative in Winnipeg, the Windsor Button Collective, the Ottawa Panhandlers' Union and the Street Labourers of Windsor (SLOW). The Ottawa Panhandlers' Union continues a tradition in the IWW of expanding the definition of worker. The union members include anyone who makes their living in the street, including buskers, street vendors, the homeless, scrappers and panhandlers. In the summer of 2004, the Union led strike by the Homeless (the Homeless Action Strike) in Ottawa. The strike resulted in the city agreeing to fund a newspaper created and sold by the Homeless on the street. On May 1, 2006, the Union took over the Elgin Street Police Station for a day. A similar IWW organization, the Street Labourers of Windsor (SLOW), has garnered local, provincial, and national news coverage for its organizing efforts in 2015.\n\nRecently, the IWW has also engaged in campaigns among harm reduction workers (resulting in the Toronto Harm Reduction Workers Union in 2014) and workers at the Québec fast food chain Frite Alors! in 2016.\n\nThe IWW started to organise in Germany following the First World War. Fritz Wolffheim played a significant role in establishing the IWW in Hamburg.\nA German Language Membership Regional Organizing Committee (GLAMROC) was founded in December 2006 in Cologne. It encompasses the German-language area of Germany, Luxembourg, Austria, and Switzerland with branches or contacts in 16 cities. In 2015, the GLAMROC is reported as having 200 members in good standing\n\nThe regional body of the union in the United Kingdom and Republic of Ireland is the Wales, Ireland, Scotland, England Regional Administration (WISERA). Formerly known as the Britain and Ireland Regional Administration (BIRA), its name was changed as a result of a referendum vote by WISERA members.\n\nThe British Advocates of Industrial Unionism, founded in 1906, supported the IWW. This group split in 1908, with the majority supporting Daniel De Leon and a minority supporting E. J. B. Allen founding the Industrialist Union and developing links with the Chicago-based IWW. Allen's group soon disappeared, but the first IWW group in Britain was founded by members of the Industrial Syndicalist Education League led by Guy Bowman in 1913.\n\nThe IWW was present to varying extents in many of the struggles in the early decades of the 20th century, including the UK General Strike of 1926, and the dockers' strike of 1947. A Neath Wobbly who had been active in Mexico trained volunteers who went to the International Brigade to fight against Franco but did not return.\n\nDuring the decade after World War II, the IWW had two active branches in London and Glasgow. These soon died off, before a modest resurgence in northwest England during the 1970s.\n\nBetween 2001 and 2003, there was a marked increase in UK membership, with the creation of the Hull General Membership Branch. During this time the Hull branch had 27 members of good standing, being at that time the largest branch outside of the United States. By 2005, there were around 100 members in the United Kingdom. For the IWW's centenary, a stone was laid (51°41'598N 4°17.135W Geocacher), in a public access forest in Wales, commemorating the centenary of the union. As well, Sequoias were planted as a memorial to US IWW and Earth First! activist Judi Bari. 2006 saw the IWW formally registered by the UK government as a recognised trade union.\n\nThe IWW currently has a presence in several major urban areas as well as regional centres, with chartered branches in London, Glasgow (Clydeside GMB), Bradford, Bristol, Edinburgh, Leeds, Manchester, Nottingham, Reading, Sheffield, in the Tyne and Wear and West Midlands areas, and most recently in Wales.\n\nOverall, membership has increased rapidly; in 2014, the union reported a total UK membership of 750, which increased to 1000 by April 2015. In 2016, the 1,500 member limit was passed\n\nIWW members were involved in the Liverpool dockers' strike that took place between 1995 and 1998, and numerous other events and struggles throughout the 1990s and 2000s, including the successful unionising of several workplaces, such as support workers for the Scottish Socialist Party.\n\nRecently, the IWW has focused its efforts on health and education workers, publishing a national industrial newsletter for health workers and a specific bulletin for workers in the National Blood Service. In 2007 it launched a campaign alongside the anti-capitalist group No Sweat which attempted to replicate some of the successes of the US IWW's organising drives amongst Starbucks workers. In the same year its health-workers' network launched a national campaign against cuts in the National Blood Service, which is ongoing.\n\nAlso in 2007, IWW branches in Glasgow and Dumfries were a key driving force in a successful campaign to prevent the closure of one of Glasgow University's campuses, (The Crichton) in Dumfries. The campaign united IWW members, other unions, students and the local community to build a powerful coalition. Its success, coupled with the National Blood Service campaign, has raised the IWW's profile significantly since then.\n\nIn 2011, the IWW representing cleaners at the Guildhall won back-pay and the right to collective negotiation with their employers, Ocean. Also in 2011, branches of the IWW were set up in Lincoln, Manchester and Sheffield (notably workers employed by Pizza Hut).\n\nThe Edinburgh General Membership Branch of the IWW along with other branches of the IWW's Scottish section voted in 2014 to become a signatory to the \"From Yes to Action Statement\" produced by the Autonomous Centre of Edinburgh. In 2015, along with similar groups such as the Edinburgh Coalition Against Poverty and Edinburgh Anarchist Federation, they joined the Scottish Action Against Austerity network.\n\nIn 2016, WISERA promoted a campaign targeting couriers working for companies such as Deliveroo.\n\nThe IWW has been involved in organizing prisoners since 2012, with The Incarcerated Worker's Organizing Committee being formed in 2013. IWOC was pivotal in organizing The 2016 American Prisoners Strike against what it calls \"slave labor conditions\" in prison work programs. IWOC, allied with the Free State Movements (a collection of prisoner rights organizations aligned with The Free Alabama Movement).\n\nIn addition, the IWW has organized several high-profile restaurants and fast food chains including Burgerville, Ellen's Stardust Diner and Jimmy Johns. In many ways the IWW is responsible for the rise of larger movements like Fight for 15 and 15 Now that have sought to organize food service and retail workers into the larger unions.\n\nAn Iceland Regional Organizing Committee (IceROC) was chartered in 2015. The union has become a trailblazer in supporting sex workers in Iceland, who lack access to services which do not automatically treat them as victims of abuse. In particular, the IWW in Iceland has taken a strong position against the Swedish model of policing sex work, where sex workers are not criminalized but their customers are, and instead has argued in favour of \"organizing all workers without moral or legal judgement\".\n\nAlso in 2015, a Greek Regional Organizing Committee (GreROC) was chartered. In July of that year, it released a statement condemning the Greek government's response to the results of the 2015 Greek bailout referendum, saying that \"despite the Left tone of dignity that the Left governmental administrators use, this is a one-way blackmail. We need a radical change of shift, not in words but in action.\"\n\nThe IWW has a rich and complex history in South Africa, with an original South African IWW organization being founded in 1910 and existing through most of the 1910s until disintegrating by around 1916. The union's insistence on multiracial unionism set it at odds with the white trade union movement and brought severe political repression from the apartheid-era South African government. The major South African port of Durban was an important link in the IWW's international network which was largely maintained by its Marine Transport Workers Industrial Union, that connected the mainline North American IWW to ports in Africa, India, South America, and Australasia.\n\nAfter the collapse of the formal IWW organization in South Africa, it would be succeeded by an Industrial Socialist League, the Industrial Workers of Africa, and finally the Industrial and Commercial Workers' Union (ICU), which would become the major black union in South Africa in the 1920s and 30s. Nevertheless, IWW and syndicalist influences would decline as the black workers' movement was brought into the trade union fold and came under the domination of the Communist Party of South Africa, which opposed syndicalist tendencies in the unions.\n\nAlmost a hundred years later, multiple attempts were made to rebuild the South African IWW, with a short-lived South African Regional Organising Committee being founded in the early 2000s in Durban and attempts made to build a branch in Cape Town in the early 2010s, with neither resulting in success.\n\nIn 1997, there was a total of 3,240 workers in Sierra Leone, mostly miners, who registered themselves as IWW members in Sierra Leone government records largely independently of the international General Administration in Chicago (i.e. without the official issuing of membership cards or taking of dues). Contact between the Sierra Leone members and General Headquarters was lost after a military coup which was an episode in the Sierra Leone Civil War, which would last until 2002. The intensification of the civil war caused a number of IWW members, including the only official union delegate in the country, to flee to Guinea.\n\nIn 2012, IWW members in Uganda formed a Ugandan Regional Organizing Committee (ROC) and began to raise funds to establish a Ugandan office for the IWW. However, it was discovered that the union officers in Uganda had been violating the Constitution of the IWW in multiple ways, such as by permitting employers to join the union, and the ROC was dissolved.\n\nA branch of the IWW has existed since 2012. \n\nOne Wobbly characteristic since their inception has been a penchant for song. To counteract management sending in the Salvation Army band to cover up the Wobbly speakers, Joe Hill wrote parodies of Christian hymns so that union members could sing along with the Salvation Army band, but with their own purposes. For example, \"In the Sweet By and By\" became \"There'll Be Pie in the Sky When You Die (That's a Lie)\". From that start in exigency, Wobbly song writing became common because they \"articulated the frustrations, hostilities, and humor of the homeless and the dispossessed.\" The IWW collected its official songs in the Little Red Songbook and continues to update this book to the present time. In the 1960s, the American folk music revival in the United States brought a renewed interest in the songs of Joe Hill and other Wobblies, and seminal folk revival figures such as Pete Seeger and Woody Guthrie had a pro-Wobbly tone, while some were members of the IWW. Among the protest songs in the book are \"Hallelujah, I'm a Bum\" (this song was never popular among members), \"Union Maid\", and \"I Dreamed I Saw Joe Hill Last Night\". Perhaps the best known IWW song is \"Solidarity Forever\". The songs have been performed by dozens of artists, and Utah Phillips performed the songs in concert and on recordings for decades. Other prominent IWW songwriters include Ralph Chaplin who authored \"Solidarity Forever\", and Leslie Fish.\n\nThe Finnish IWW community produced several folk singers, poets and songwriters, the most famous being Matti Valentine Huhta (better known as T-Bone Slim), who penned \"The Popular Wobbly\" and \"The Mysteries of a Hobo's Life\". Slim's poem, \"The Lumberjack's Prayer\" was recorded by Studs Terkel on labor singer Bucky Halker's \"Don't Want Your Millions\". Hiski Salomaa, whose songs were composed entirely in Finnish (and Finglish), remains a widely recognized early folk musician in his native Finland as well as in sections of the Midwest United States, Northern Ontario, and other areas of North America with high concentrations of Finns. Salomaa, who was a tailor by trade, has been referred to as the Finnish Woody Guthrie. Arthur Kylander, who worked as a lumberjack, is a lesser known, but important Finnish IWW folk musician. Kylander's lyrics range from the difficulties of the immigrant labourer's experience to more humorous themes. Arguably, the wanderer, a recurring theme in Finnish folklore dating back to pre-Christian oral tradition (as with Lemminkäinen in the Kalevala), translated quite easily to the music of Huhta, Salomaa, and Kylander; each of whom have songs about the trials and tribulations of the hobo.\n\nWobbly lingo is a collection of technical language, jargon, and historic slang used by the Wobblies, for more than a century. Many Wobbly terms derive from or are coextensive with hobo expressions used through the 1940s. The origin of the name \"Wobbly\" itself is uncertain. For several decades, many hobos in the United States were members of, or were sympathetic to, the IWW. Because of this, some of the terms describe the life of a hobo such as \"riding the rails\", living in \"jungles\", dodging the \"bulls\". The IWW's efforts to organize all trades allowed the lingo to expand to include terms relating to mining camps, timber work, and farming.\n\nSome words and phrases believed to have originated within Wobbly lingo have gained cultural significance outside of the IWW. For example, from Joe Hill's song \"The Preacher and the Slave\", the expression pie in the sky has passed into common usage, referring to a \"preposterously optimistic goal.\"\n\nMembers of the Industrial Workers of the World have included:\nFormer lieutenant governor of Colorado David C. Coates was a labor militant, and was present at the founding convention, although it is unknown if he became a member. It has long been rumored, but not yet proven, that baseball legend Honus Wagner was also a Wobbly. Senator Joe McCarthy accused Edward R. Murrow of having been an IWW member, which Murrow denied. Some of the organization's most famous current members include Noam Chomsky, Tom Morello, mixed martial arts fighter Jeff Monson, and anthropologist David Graeber.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47064780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47064780", "title": "Island Chain Strategy", "text": "Island Chain Strategy\n\nThe Island Chain Strategy is a strategy first mentioned by American foreign policy commentator John Foster Dulles in 1951 during the Korean War. It suggests surrounding the Soviet Union and China by sea. \nThe island chain concept did not become a major theme in American policy, however it has become a major fixation of Chinese analysts to this day. The concept heightens Chinese fears that they will be encircled by American forces, and emphasizes the geographical and strategic importance of Taiwan. It helps shape Chinese naval options and strategies, as well as playing a role in economic policy.\n\nWithin Chinese writings the Island Chain Strategy is divided into 3 parts, namely First Island Chain, the Second Island Chain and the Third Island Chain.\n\nThe First Island Chain begins at the Kuril Islands, and finishes towards Borneo and the northern portion of the Philippines. It is the first chain to block socialist countries aligned with the USSR, and after Soviet Russia is dealt with the chain would then turn its focus on China. The key part of the first chain would be Taiwan.\n\nBecause the island chain is built up of a series of landmasses, it is also called the \"unsinkable aircraft carrier\", especially in reference to Taiwan.\n\nThe Second Island Chain can refer to two different interpretations, but the version most commonly used refers to the island chain which is formed by the Ogasawara Islands and Volcano Islands of Japan, in addition to Mariana Islands which is United States territory.\n\nAs it is located within the middle portion of the Pacific Ocean, it acts as a second strategic defense line for the United States.\n\nThe Third Island Chain is the final part of the strategy. Its island chain begins at the Aleutian Islands, and finishes up in Oceania. The key part of the Third Island Chain would be the Hawaiian Islands of the United States.\n\nThe primary target of the doctrine was the USSR; however, additional targets also included the People's Republic of China and Vietnam. After the USSR collapsed in 1991, China soon became the major target of the doctrine.\n\n"}
{"id": "20801363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20801363", "title": "Khoisan Aboriginal and Others Movement", "text": "Khoisan Aboriginal and Others Movement\n\nThe Khoisan Aboriginal and Others Movement is a political party in South Africa. It is the first Khoisan party in South Africa and was launched in December 2008. It is led by Rodney January and will seek to improve the livelihood of South Africa's San people.\n"}
{"id": "9817573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9817573", "title": "List of diplomatic missions during World War II", "text": "List of diplomatic missions during World War II\n\nBelow is a list of diplomatic missions during World War II that were undertaken by the allied forces.\n\nList of World War II military operations\n"}
{"id": "66422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=66422", "title": "MOVE", "text": "MOVE\n\nMOVE is a black liberation group founded in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania by John Africa (born Vincent Leaphart) in 1972. The name is not an acronym. The group lived in a communal setting in West Philadelphia, abiding by philosophies of anarcho-primitivism. The group combined revolutionary ideology, similar to that of the Black Panthers, with work for animal rights. \n\nThe group is particularly known for two major conflicts with the Philadelphia Police Department. In 1978, a standoff resulted in the death of one police officer, injuries to several other people, and life sentences for nine members who were convicted of killing the officer. In 1985, another confrontation ended when a police helicopter dropped a bomb on the MOVE compound, a row house in the middle of the 6200 block of Osage Avenue. The resulting fire killed eleven MOVE members, including five children, and destroyed 65 houses in the neighborhood. The survivors later filed a civil suit against the city and the police department, and were awarded $1.5 million in a 1996 settlement.\n\nThe group's name, MOVE, is not an acronym. Its name was chosen by John Africa to say what they intended to do. Members intend to be active because they say, \"Everything that's alive moves. If it didn't, it would be stagnant, dead.\" When members greet each other they say \"On the MOVE\" \n\nThe group was originally called the Christian Movement for Life when it was founded in 1972. Its founder, John Africa, was functionally illiterate. He had dictated his thoughts to Donald Glassey, a social worker from the University of Pennsylvania, and created what he called \"The Guidelines\" as the basis of the communal group.. Africa and his contemporary, mostly African-American followers wore their hair in dreadlocks, as popularized by the Caribbean Rastafari movement. MOVE advocated a radical form of green politics and a return to a hunter-gatherer society, while stating their opposition to science, medicine, and technology. \n\nThey identify as deeply religious and advocate for life. MOVE members believe that as all living beings are dependent, their lives should be treated in equal importance. They advocate for justice that is not always based within the institutions. MOVE believes in order for something to be just, it must be just for all living creatures. As John Africa had done, his followers changed their surnames to Africa to show reverence to what they regarded as their mother continent.\n\nIn a 2018 article about the group, Ed Pilkington of \"The Guardian\" describes their political views as \"a strange fusion of black power and flower power. The group that formed in the early 1970s melded the revolutionary ideology of the Black Panthers with the nature- and animal-loving communalism of 1960s hippies. You might characterise them as black liberationists-cum-eco warriors.\" He noted the group also functioned as an animal rights advocacy organization.\n\nHe quoted member Janine Africa, who wrote to him from prison: “We demonstrated against puppy mills, zoos, circuses, any form of enslavement of animals. We demonstrated against Three Mile Island and industrial pollution. We demonstrated against police brutality. And we did so uncompromisingly. Slavery never ended, it was just disguised.”\n\nJohn Africa and the MOVE members lived in a commune in a house owned by Glassey in the Powelton Village section of West Philadelphia. As activists, they staged bullhorn-amplified, profanity-laced demonstrations against institutions that they opposed, such as zoos (MOVE had strong views on animal rights), and speakers whose views they opposed. MOVE activities were scrutinized by law enforcement authorities, particularly under the administration of Mayor Frank Rizzo, a former police commissioner known for his hard line against activist groups.\n\n \nIn 1977, the police under Mayor Frank Rizzo obtained a court order requiring MOVE to vacate their Powelton Village house at 311 N 33rd Street. The group had begun to occupy the residence, and it was not long before MOVE's living style exhausted their neighbors' patience. MOVE members made a treaty with the police. They agreed to move out of the premises and surrender their weapons if the police released their members who were held in city jails. The police held up their end of the deal, but MOVE members failed to comply. Nearly a year later, police had come to a standoff with members of the community, who had not left. When the police attempted to enter the house, shooting erupted. Philadelphia Police Department officer James J. Ramp was killed by a shot to the back of the neck. MOVE representatives claimed that he was facing the house at the time and they denied MOVE's responsibility for his death.They said shooting broke out and Ramp was killed by a single bullet. Prosecutors alleged that MOVE members fired the fatal shot and charged Sims Africa and the other eight with collective responsibility for his death.\n\nAccording to a 2018 article in \"The Guardian\", \"Eyewitnesses, however, gave accounts suggesting that the shot may have come from the opposite direction to the basement, raising the possibility that Ramp was accidentally felled, by police fire. Move members continue to insist that they had no workable guns in their house at the time of the siege. Several months earlier, in May 1978, several guns – most of them inoperative – had been handed over to police at the Move house; however, prosecutors at the trial of the Move Nine told the jury that at the time of the August siege there had been functioning firearms in the house.\" The standoff lasted about an hour before MOVE members began to surrender. \n\n\"Prosecutors at the trial of the Move Nine told the jury that at the time of the August siege there had been functioning firearms in the house.\" MOVE spokesmen said they did not have working weapons. The MOVE 9 were convicted of third-degree murder for Ramp's death; each was sentenced to a maximum of 100 years in prison. They were Chuck, Delbert, Eddie, Janet, Janine, Merle, Michael, Phil, and Debbie Africa.\n\nIn 1998, at age 47, Merle Africa died in prison. Seven of the surviving eight members first became eligible for parole in the spring of 2008, but they were denied. Parole hearings for each of these prisoner were to be held yearly from that time. In 2015, at age 59, Phil Africa died in prison. \n\nOn June 16, 2018, Debbie Sims Africa, who was 22 when sentenced, was released on parole and reunited with her 39-year-old son, Michael Davis Africa, Jr. She gave birth to him a month after she was imprisoned, and he was taken from her a week later. The release of Sims Africa renewed attention on members of MOVE and the Black Panthers who remain imprisoned in the US from the period of the 1960s and 1970s; there are about twenty-five. \n\nAs of June 2018, the remaining six in prison of the MOVE Nine convicted for the 1978 death were Chuck Sims Africa, Delbert Orr Africa, Eddie Goodman Africa, Janine Phillips Africa, Janet Hollaway Africa, and Michael Davis Africa, Sr. On October 23, 2018, Michael Davis Africa, the husband of Debbie Sims Africa, was released on parole.\n\nIn 1981 MOVE relocated to a row house at 6221 Osage Avenue in the Cobbs Creek area of West Philadelphia. Neighbors complained to the city for years about trash around their building, confrontations with neighbors, and that MOVE members were broadcasting sometimes obscene political messages by bullhorn. The bullhorn was broken and inoperable for the three weeks prior to the police bombing of the row house.\n\nThe police obtained arrest warrants in 1985 charging four MOVE occupants with crimes including parole violations, contempt of court, illegal possession of firearms, and making terrorist threats. Mayor Wilson Goode and police commissioner Gregore J. Sambor classified MOVE as a terrorist organization. Residents of the area were evacuated from the neighborhood. They were told that they would be able to return to their homes after a twenty-four hour period. \n\nOn Monday, May 13, 1985, nearly 500 police officers, along with city manager Leo Brooks, arrived in force and attempted to clear the building and execute the arrest warrants. Water and electricity was shut off in order to force MOVE members out of the house. Commissioner Sambor read a long speech addressed to MOVE members that started with, \"Attention MOVE... this is America\". When the MOVE members did not respond, the police decided to forcefully remove the members from the house.\n\nThere was an armed standoff with police, who lobbed tear gas canisters at the building. The MOVE members fired at them and a gunfight with semi-automatic and automatic firearms ensued. Police went through over ten thousand rounds of ammunition before Commissioner Sambor ordered that the compound be bombed. From a Pennsylvania State Police helicopter, Philadelphia Police Department Lt. Frank Powell proceeded to drop two one-pound bombs (which the police referred to as \"entry devices\") made of FBI-supplied water gel explosive, a dynamite substitute, targeting a fortified, bunker-like cubicle on the roof of the house.\n\nThe resulting explosions ignited a fire from fuel for a gasoline-powered generator in the rooftop bunker; it spread and eventually destroyed approximately 65 nearby houses. Despite the earlier drenching of the building by firefighters, officials said they feared that MOVE would shoot at the firefighters. \n\nMayor Wilson Goode later testified at a 1996 trial that he had ordered the fire to be put out after the bunker had burned. Police Commissioner Sambor said he received the order, but the fire commissioner testified that he did not receive the order. Eleven people (John Africa, five other adults, and five children aged 7 to 13) died in the resulting fire. Ramona Africa, one of the two MOVE survivors from the house, said that police fired at those trying to escape.\n\nMayor Goode appointed an investigative commission called the Philadelphia Special Investigation Commission (PSIC, aka MOVE Commission), chaired by William H. Brown, III. Police commissioner Gregore J. Sambor resigned in November 1985; in a speech the following year, he said that he was made a \"surrogate\" by Goode. \n\nThe MOVE Commission issued its report on March 6, 1986. The report denounced the actions of the city government, stating that \"Dropping a bomb on an occupied row house was unconscionable.\" Following the release of the report, Goode made a formal public apology. No one from the city government was criminally charged in the attack. The only surviving adult MOVE member, Ramona Africa, was charged and convicted on charges of riot and conspiracy; she served seven years in prison.\n\nIn 1996 a federal jury ordered the city to pay a US$ 1.5 million civil suit judgement to survivor Ramona Africa and relatives of two people killed in the bombing. The jury had found that the city used excessive force and violated the members' constitutional protections against unreasonable search and seizure. In 1985 Philadelphia was given the sobriquet \"The City that Bombed Itself.\"\n\nAfter John Africa's death, his widow, Alberta, married John Gilbride, Jr. Together they had a child, Zackary Africa, circa 1996. The couple divorced in 1999. Gilbride no longer supported MOVE and resettled in Maple Shade, New Jersey. Alberta Africa was living in Cherry Hill, New Jersey with their son John Zachary Gilbride, as he was legally known.\n\nOn September 10, 2002, in the course of their bitter custody dispute, Gilbride testified in court that MOVE had threatened to kill him. The court granted Gilbride partial custody of Zackary, allowing him unsupervised visits. \n\nOn September 27, 2002, shortly after midnight and prior to Gilbride's first visitation date with Zackary, an unknown assailant shot and killed Gilbride with an automatic weapon as he sat in his car parked outside his New Jersey home. Investigators did not name a suspect and the Burlington County Police did not release ballistics information. \n\nThe case remains unsolved. A MOVE spokeswoman initially said that the U.S. government had assassinated Gilbride in order to frame MOVE. His ex-wife Alberta Africa denied that the murder had occurred. She said in 2009 that Gilbride \"is out hiding somewhere.\" Tony Allen, an ex-MOVE member, says that MOVE murdered Gilbride.\n\nIn 2012 the \"Philadelphia Inquirer\" reported that Gilbride had told friends and family that he had recorded incriminating evidence in a notebook as security against a \"hit\" by MOVE. Gilbride said he had placed the notebook inside a locker for safekeeping. The Burlington County Prosecutor's Office declined to follow up on the report.\n\nRamona Africa acts as a spokesperson for the group. She has given numerous speeches at events in the United States and other countries. Mumia Abu-Jamal, a journalist and activist, was convicted and originally sentenced to death for the unrelated 1981 murder of police officer Daniel Faulkner. In 2011 his sentence was commuted to life. He had reported on MOVE and expressed his support for them. MOVE continues to advocate for Abu-Jamal's release as well as for that of imprisoned MOVE members. MOVE regards them all as political prisoners.\n\nBirdie Africa, also known as Michael Moses Ward, was the only child to survive the 1985 MOVE bombing. As an adult, he accidentally drowned in 2013 in a hot tub on board the ship \"Carnival Dream\" while cruising in the Caribbean.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38930289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38930289", "title": "March for Life (Prague)", "text": "March for Life (Prague)\n\nThe March for Life () is an annual anti-abortion demonstration held in Prague in late March, close to the International Day of the Unborn Child (25 March). The first march was held in 2001. It is organized by \"\" (Pro-life Movement) of the Czech Republic. The participants usually carry white crosses symbolizing the victims of abortion. The event is supported by the Latin and Eastern Catholic churches. The march is usually opened by a Mass celebrated by Dominik Duka, Cardinal-Archbishop of Prague. Politicians such as Pavel Bělobrádek (KDU-ČSL), Jitka Chalánková (TOP 09), Eva Richtrová (ČSSD) and Jaroslav Plachý (ODS) have attended the march in the past. The march leads to the Wenceslas Square and ends at the Saint Wenceslas statue.\n\n"}
{"id": "10285381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10285381", "title": "Maria Gomori", "text": "Maria Gomori\n\nMaria Gomori, M.S.W., Dip.C., Ph.D. (born May 25, 1920) is a pioneer in the field of systems family therapy. She has a long and disciplined background, and has made significant contributions to the fields of psychiatric and social work training, having designed numerous successful training programs. She is the foremost living proponent of the Satir Method for Family Therapy in the world. In 2004, she was named \"Woman of Distinction\" for the field of Health and Wellness by the City of Winnipeg. In the same year Winnipeg's Saint Boniface Hospital Research Centre established a lectureship in her name to honour her long and varied contributions to the health system and the people who use it.\n\nShe earned a B.A. at the Sorbonne, an Economics degree in her native Budapest, an M.S.W. at the University of Manitoba, Dip.C. from the Haven Institute and Ph.D. from the Open International University. Dr. Gomori developed the family therapy training program for the residents in psychiatry at St. Boniface Hospital in Winnipeg, MB, and was the Coordinator and Director of the Social Work Department at this hospital for 14 years. Since her retirement, she has continued to lecture and offer seminars and workshops around the world, teaching annually in China and Taiwan and North America, even at the age of 88. She has collaborated with Bennet Wong and Jock McKeen for over thirty years, and is an Emeritus Faculty of the Haven Institute.\n\nHer life story is one of courage. After enduring the Nazi incursion into her native Budapest in the 1940s, she completed her education and rose quickly in the Hungarian government's department of Economics. She fled Hungary in 1956 in the midst of the Hungarian Revolution, and emerged in the free world without money or possessions with her husband and young son. They moved to Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada, where she studied social work. Her life focus has been on freedom. She has received numerous honours and citations.\n\nGomori is a family therapist in private practice, and a retired Associate Professor in the Department of Psychiatry at the University of Manitoba's Faculty of Medicine. Gomori also is a Clinical Member and Approved Supervisor with AAMFT, the American Association of Marriage and Family Therapy. She worked intensively with Virginia Satir for over 20 years and has been a faculty member and advanced trainer in Satir's \"Avanta International Training Organization\" since 1981. Dr. Gomori is also a certified practitioner and Master Programmer in Neuro-linguistic programming.\n\nMaria Gomori has established an international reputation as a workshop leader, teaching, demonstrating and applying her interpretation of the Satir model. She has conducted workshops throughout Canada, the United States, Europe, South America, Thailand, Hong Kong, Taiwan, China and Australia. She co-authored with Virginia Satir et al. \"The Satir Approach to Communication\" and \"The Satir Model: Family Therapy and Beyond\"; the latter book was chosen by the AAMFT Foundation for the 1994 Satir Education and Research Prize. Gomori has worked tirelessly in her international lectures and seminars; she been instrumental in establishing \"Satir Institutes\" in Winnipeg, Hong Kong, Taiwan, and Australia, and is in great demand internationally for her workshops and training programs. She has a unique creative way of integrating Virginia Satir's approach with her learnings from many other great teachers combined with her own experiences in living.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19403328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19403328", "title": "Media prank", "text": "Media prank\n\nA media prank is a type of media event, perpetrated by staged speeches, activities, or press releases, designed to trick legitimate journalists into publishing erroneous or misleading articles. The term may also refer to such stories if planted by fake journalists, as well as the false story thereby published. A media prank is a form of culture jamming generally done as performance art or a practical joke for purposes of a humorous critique of mass media.\n\nIn May 1927, Jean-Paul Sartre, who was known as one of the fiercest pranksters at the \"École Normale Superieure\" organized with his comrades Nizan, Larroutis, Baillou and Herland, a media prank following Charles Lindbergh's successful New York-Paris flight. Sartre & Co. called newspapers telling them that Lindbergh would be awarded an honorary degree by the \"École\". Many newspapers including \"Le Petit Parisien\" announced the event on May 25 and thousands showed up, unaware that they were witnessing a stunt with a look-alike. A scandal followed resulting in the resignation of the \"École\" director Gustave Lanson.\n\nOne well-known 1967 prank, orchestrated by Abbie Hoffman and Allen Ginsberg and chronicled in Norman Mailer's \"Armies of the Night\", involved a mock gathering protesting the Vietnam War (that many media took as a serious but misguided effort) intended to levitate the Pentagon.\n\nJoey Skaggs is one of the most prolific creators of media pranks in the United States, often using actors to stage outlandish public events that are then covered by news media as real stories. Among his many pranks, he convinced United Press International to report that cockroach hormones had been identified as a cure for arthritis, and tricked WABC-TV in New York city to create a news segment (which was nominated for an Emmy Award despite being untrue) about a supposed \"cathouse for dogs\".\n\nThe band Negativland is (according to Time Magazine) \"better known for media pranks than records\". The band, as an excuse for cancelling an upcoming tour, issued a press release claiming that a teenager who had committed a multiple ax murder did so after arguing with his parents over the meaning of its song, \"Christianity Is Stupid\". The story was picked up and reprinted as true by mass media, and the band wrote later songs about having perpetrated the hoax. In 2003 the band issued a series of press releases accusing Seattle, Washington radio station KJR-FM of playing 1980s music despite claiming it only played \"the best of the 60s and 70s\" then, after the radio station changed its format, issued more press releases announcing that it had all been a prank.\n\nBeginning in 1999 with the fake campaign-oriented website gwbush.com, the Yes Men have impersonated famous celebrities, politicians, and business officials at appearances, interviews, websites, and other media to make political points.\n\nIn December, 2009 an Argentina news station fell victim to a media prank. Acting on a Facebook link, an investigative reporter believed that the latest trend in underage drinking was tied to a new cocktail mix called Grog XD. Unbeknown to the reporter, the \nrecipe was from the video game \"The Secret of Monkey Island\".\n\nAlthough media pranks may serve as legitimate criticism of the press, and artistic creations in their own right, they are often criticized not only for the disruption they cause but as simple publicity stunts that take advantage of the very failures of mass media that they ostensibly oppose. Skaggs has criticized the Flash mob movement, as being frivolous and lacking the countercultural element of more serious protest art.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59093615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59093615", "title": "Mildred Grossman", "text": "Mildred Grossman\n\nMildred Grossman (1916-1988) was a New York City public school teacher, civil rights activist, unionist, and an award-winning photographer associated with the Photo League. She led 32 other teachers in a civil case against the New York City Public Schools and the state's McCarthy-era Feinberg ‘loyalty’ Law.\n\nMildred Grossman was born in Brooklyn, NY, in 1916 eldest daughter of Lewis J. and Maybella Grossman, and sister of Mitchell, Henrietta and Leonard. She studied Business Administration and in 1937 earned a bachelor's degree with a Teaching Certificate from the College of Business and Accounting of the City College of New York. There, as President of the Girls Club in 1935, she was notable for her campaign to secure readmission of women banned from studying at the College, the formation of a student union and defence of academic freedom, and a youth allowance for needy students. While studying she worked at Coty Cosmetics in Manhattan. In 1939 she attended NYS Communist Party summer school before beginning teaching in business accounting at Central Commercial High School in Manhattan. She became active in the Teachers Union of NY and a member of the American Labor Party.\n\nIn the late 1940s she joined the Photo League of NY, taking classes in documentary and street photography, subsequently being given work as staff photographer for \"Teacher News\", the publication of the Teachers' Union. She photographed the annual Teachers Union Educational Conferences at the Waldorf-Astoria and the Academic Freedom rallies. Her subjects included speakers playwright Arthur Miller and blacklisted screenwriter Dalton Trumbo, and she recorded educator/activist, Dr. W.E.B. Du Bois and actor/activist Paul Robeson receiving the TU's Award for Distinguished Service in the Cause of Education for Peace and Freedom.\n\nWhen teachers demonstrated in Albany over poor salaries, Grossman was present, and she recorded rallies in Washington for allied unions, and protests in NYC against unfair labor practices that included the Timone Resolution, which threatened both the TU and individual teachers who expressed their personal political beliefs.\n\nThe union actions Grossman documented were a response to the 1940 'Little Red Scare', which saw twenty-one states impose ‘loyalty oaths’ on teachers before, by 1946, fifteen more states had joined them. The House Un-American Activities Committee, supported at times by military authorities, inspected public school and college textbooks and curricula to ensure that the authors, even those long deceased, had 'disclaimed Communism'. New York's State Senator Frederic Coudert in 1940 scoured schools for \"subversives\", leading to the dismissal of professors without regard for their value and record as teachers.\n\nPost-war, the purge instituted in New York in the state's 1949 Feinberg Law (Named after its sponsor, state senator Benjamin Feinberg) requiring school districts to report on the loyalty of every teacher, annually, targeted left-wing leaders of the city's Teachers Union. A teacher's membership in ‘subversive’ organisations, including “writing of articles, the distribution of pamphlets, endorsement of speeches made or articles written or acts performed by others”, would be designated ‘disloyal’ by the state commissioner of education. By 1950, leaders of the New York City Teachers Union were being dismissed through these proceedings, provoking fear of ramping job losses that affected membership; Teachers Union numbers fell from 7,000 in 1946 to 2,000 by the end of the 1950 school year, enabling the New York City Board of Education to withdraw recognition.\n\nMildred Grossman was subject to investigation and in 1953 was named as a former Communist at HUAC assistant corporation counsel Saul Moskoff's interrogation conducted in an old warehouse without legal representation. Grossman fought back by directing the Talmudic admonitions of the ‘moser’ (informer) as ammunition against Saul Moskoff, a practicing Jew and first vice president of Congregation Agudas Israel, sending a letter to the members of his congregation citing a resolution against the \"Informer Resolution\" adopted by the New York Board of Rabbis. Moskoff, however, recruited his own rabbis to offer their interpretation, though Rabbi Sharfman warned Moskoff his opponents could most certainly produce Talmudic interpretation from another rabbi to the contrary. Nevertheless, when she refused to answer part of the Superintendent's question concerning past and present membership in the CP, she was first suspended from her teaching position, and after twelve years as a teacher, was dismissed, with 38 other NYC teachers, in April 1954 for “insubordination and conduct unbecoming” and the Board of Education's determination, in accordance with New York State's Feinberg Law, that she had not satisfactorily severed her ties to the Communist Party. 283 others resigned or retired to escape the ordeal, with one elementary teacher, recently bereaved of her husband, committing suicide. Grossman's 1955 appeal against her dismissal was denied by the State Commissioner of Education.\n\nIn the same year, two of Grossman's photographs appeared in the world-touring Museum of Modern Art exhibition \"The Family of Man\" selected by Edward Steichen and seen by 9 million visitors. One shows an elderly couple promenading on a city street, their identical poses representing habituation in a long-term marriage. The subject of her other photograph, taken in Germany, is a grandmother's gleefully reciprocated pride in her grandchild. Steichen also included Grossman's works in the 1957 MoMA show \"Seventy photographers look at New York\".\n\nBarred from teaching but buoyed by this recognition, Grossman switched careers to begin freelancing as a photographer, working for the New York Hotel Trades Council, and for the Hotel Workers Local #5 in NYC, photographing their members on the job, as they participated in union elections, on the strike line, and at the Union hall. Her now historic pictures appeared in Union publications and displayed in her art exhibit \"Portrait of a Union\".\n\nShe met Dr Martin Luther King in the union offices in 1957 and in support of civil rights she produced reportage on the Little Rock Nine, the first African-American students to attend an integrated school, Little Rock Central High, in Arkansas in September, 1957, as part of the initiative to desegregate Southern schools. Subjected to discrimination, harassment, and violence by their white classmates, they became iconic of African-Americans’ struggle for equality. Grossman photographed them in the summer of 1958, when they met with union leaders, diplomats, and elected officials honouring their courage and achievements. The New York Hotel Workers’ Union flew the Little Rock Nine students to New York and presented them with the Better Race Relations Award. \n\nGrossman's photographs show the students as they visit the Statue of Liberty, the United Nations Headquarters, City Hall, the Local 6 Civil Rights Award Ceremony, and the Coney Island theme parks. One member of the group, Carlotta Walls LaNier recalls in interview with Lisa Frazier Page in \"A mighty long way: my journey to justice at Little Rock Central High School,\" that;\n\nGrossman continued her work as a union activist, photographer, and teacher until her death from cancer in 1988. In 1958 Grossman married Motel \"Mark\" Berkowitz, a Holocaust survivor with whom, in 1965, she traveled to Poland, his homeland. The next year she won a Polish competition with her image \"Strike Rally\". She had previously, in 1960, won 'America's Many Faces', sponsored by the National Urban League. She photographed for the Poor People's Campaign in 1968 and contributed photos to \"The New Movement: Power for the Powerless\".\n\nIn 1967 the Feinberg Law was ruled unconstitutional by the Supreme Court and Grossman led a group of teachers to seek reinstatement, but it was not until 1972 that they successfully sued to regain their jobs. In the meantime, during 1971 Grossman worked between freelance photography, social work and teaching photography, before finally, at age 58, returning after 21 years to her secondary teaching post at Central Commercial High School in 1974-75, her hard-won campaign against laws obstructing academic freedom vindicated. Even in her sixties, she fought for others as head of the tenant union in her building.\n\nGrossman was represented in \"Fields of Vision: Women in Photography\" (1995) and \"Eye of the Storm: Photographs by Mildred Grossman\", published posthumously in 1999 by the University of Maryland, Baltimore County, is a record of her life as an educator, photographer, and civil rights activist.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33192357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33192357", "title": "Ministry of Economic Development and Trade (Ukraine)", "text": "Ministry of Economic Development and Trade (Ukraine)\n\nThe Ministry of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine () is the main authority in the system of central government of Ukraine responsible for formation and realization of state economic and social development policies (business economics); regulation of consumer prices; industrial, investment and trade economic policies; development of entrepreneurship; technical regulation and security of consumer rights; inter-agency coordination of economic and social cooperation of Ukraine with the European Union.\n\nThe ministry is based on the former Ministry of Economy, taking its origin from the Planning Commission of the Ukrainian SSR. Over the years it included such former ministries as Ministry of Trade and Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations. Activities of the current ministry are coordinated by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine.\n\nThe ministry consists of the central body of ministry headed by its leadership composed of a minister, first deputy and other deputies to assist the minister. Ministry elects several state administrations representatives to coordinate operations of the government companies.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20376783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20376783", "title": "Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development (Uganda)", "text": "Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development (Uganda)\n\nThe Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development (MoFPED) is a cabinet-level government ministry of Uganda. Its mandate is to formulate sound economic and fiscal policies, mobilize resources for the implementation of government programmes, disburse public resources as appropriated by Parliament, and account for their use in accordance with national laws and international best practices. The cabinet minister of finance is Matia Kasaija. MoFPED was created by the 1995 Constitution of Uganda and derives its power from the Constitution and related acts of parliament, including the 2001 Budget Act and the 2003 Public Finance and Accountability Act.\n\nMoFPED was created by the 1995 Constitution of Uganda, at the time, there were two departments: a Ministry of Finance (MoF) and a Ministry of Planning and Economic Development (MPED). By 1995, the government launched the Poverty Eradication Action Plan (PEAP) in order to prioritise poverty eradication. was formulated after a long consultative process with a wide range of stakeholders. The process was spearheaded by MPED.\n\nIn 1998, the MoF and MPED were merged into the Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development (MoFPED), which the World Bank noted was \"critical in establishing fiscal discipline, while building links between policy formulation, planning, and budgeting\". The merger led to an emphasis on coordinating the budget process and introducing output-oriented budgeting within a medium-term expenditure framework. Many of these early reforms had a \"cutting-edge dimension\"; Uganda was one of the first countries in Africa to adopt a semi-autonomous revenue agency (the Uganda Revenue Authority) as well as introduce medium-term budgeting. Implementation, however, had a lot of room for improvement.\n\nIn 2010, MoFPED started receiving detailed project-by-project reports on budget allocations and quarterly expenditures from local governments through a digital budget reporting tool. However, local stakeholders, including elected representatives whose mandate it is to monitor service provision, are largely unaware of this information. In order to solve this issue, MoFPED partnered with Innovations for Poverty Action (IPA), the Overseas Development Institute (ODI), and Advocates Coalition for Development and Environment (ACODE) in 2014 to launch a Budget Transparency Initiative to make department, project-, and location-specific budget information available to politicians, opinion leaders, and the public as well as mobilize them to monitor and provide feedback on the spending and services provided by government institutions.\n\nThe ministry is divided into the following political and administrative sub-divisions:\n\n\nMoFPED supervises the following government agencies:\n\n\nThe ministry works closely with the following autonomous government agencies:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22237079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22237079", "title": "Morea revolt of 1453–1454", "text": "Morea revolt of 1453–1454\n\nThe Morea revolt of 1453–1454 was a failed peasant rebellion carried out against the rule of the brothers Thomas and Demetrios Palaiologos, rulers of the Byzantine Despotate of the Morea in the Peloponnese peninsula.\n\nThe Byzantine Empire had ruled over the Morea for centuries before the rebellion. During this time, several thousand Arvanites had settled in the area. After the Battle of Varna in 1444, the Ottoman Turks had a free hand in dealing with the remnants of the Byzantine Empire, which had been in decline for over a century. In 1446, the Ottomans invaded the Byzantine Morea which was then jointly administrated by the two brothers, the Despots Constantine and Thomas Palaiologos. The brothers successfully resisted the invasion, but at the cost of devastating the countryside of the Morea, and the Turks carrying off 60,000 Greek civilians back to their territory. Murad II, the Ottoman Sultan, concluded a peace treaty which resulted in the brothers paying a heavy tribute to the Turks, accepting vassalage to them and a promise not to oppose them in the future, for Murad had to deal with his own internal conflicts elsewhere.\n\nUpon the death of Byzantine Emperor John VIII Palaiologos in Constantinople in October 1448, the imperial throne fell to Constantine, who was crowned on 6 January 1449 in Mystras before departing for the capital. Two months later, he assumed his new role in Constantinople as Emperor Constantine XI. His younger brothers, Thomas and Demetrius remained in charge of the Morea as joint Despots in his place. Despite assurances to Constantine that they would pledge support to one another, both Thomas and Demetrius coveted the other's lands – in addition, they pressed claims against Venetian port possessions in the Morea, alienating the only power capable of aiding them in resisting the Turks. The mutual hostility went to the point that both despots requested military aid from the Turks against the other. During the final siege of Constantinople, the new Sultan, Mehmed II invaded the Morea again as a distraction to prevent the brothers sending any provisions to Constantinople.\n\nShortly after the fall of Constantinople and the death of the last Byzantine Emperor Constantine XI, 30,000 Albanians under Peter Bua rose in revolt against the two brothers, Thomas and Demetrius II, due to the chronic insecurity and tribute payment to the Turks. The Albanians were later joined by the local Greeks, who by then had a common leader in Manuel Kantakouzenos. Kantakouzenos was hailed as their common Despot, and the rebels asked for Venetian help, while the two brothers asked for Mehmed's help in putting down the rebellion. The situation was further confused by a second rebellion led by Giovanni Asen Zaccaria, the son of the last Prince of Achaea Centurione II Zaccaria, who claimed his father's title representing the remains of the Latin element in the Morea. Before the rebellion, Zaccaria had been imprisoned by Thomas but managed to escape during the confusion.\n\nAs the Sultan's vassals, the despots called upon Turkish aid, and Omar, the son of the Ottoman governor of Thessaly Turakhan Beg arrived in December 1453. After scoring a victory against the rebels, he departed, having secured the release of his brother Ahmed, who had been captured by the Byzantines in 1446. The revolt did not subside however, and in October 1454 Turakhan himself was forced to intervene. After sacking a few fortresses, the rebellious populace capitulated. Turakhan advised the two Palaiologoi to settle their differences and rule well, and then departed the peninsula. Tribute was reinstated to the same levels and the Despots were to continue their vassalage as before. As for the rebel leaders, Boua was pardoned by Mehmet and later became a spokesperson for the Albanian people, Zaccaria fled and ended up as a pensioner in Venice and later the Papal Court, while Kantakouzenos escaped and disappeared from history.\n\n"}
{"id": "18776357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18776357", "title": "National Security Strategy (United Kingdom)", "text": "National Security Strategy (United Kingdom)\n\nThe National Security Strategy of the United Kingdom sets out the risks that UK faces and how the government of that day will address such risks.\n\nThe UK government's first National Security Strategy, 'The National Security Strategy of the United Kingdom: Security in an interdependent world', was released by the Cabinet Office in March 2008 under the Labour Party-led Government. \n\nThe 2008 Paper was updated in 2009, under the heading 'Security for the Next Generation'.\n\nThe UK government's second National Security Strategy was published in October 2010 under the Conservative-Liberal Democrat Government. It is titled \"A Strong Britain in an Age of Uncertainty\". It outlines threats facing the United Kingdom, and defences against these threats. It emphasises the risks posed by terrorism, cyberwarfare, international military crises, and natural disasters.\n\nThe National Security Strategy promised an \"annual report of progress on implementation\" of the National Security Strategy and Strategic Defence and Security Review. The annual progress report was eventually published in December 2011 as \"The Strategic Defence and Security Review: First Annual Report\". It focuses on the Government implementation of the SDSR, for example progress in reducing defence capabilities and bringing troops back from Germany. There is some coverage of recent events, for example the conflict Libya, work in Afghanistan and the deaths of Osama Bin Laden and Anwar Al Awlaki. It also looks at domestic issues such as the new CONTEST and Prevent strategies, and security for the Olympics. It reports on developments in the FCO network and the DFID aid programme and there is also an update on the UK’s alliances.\n\nHowever the Joint Committee criticised the document for being \"almost unrelentingly positive\".\nIt noted that it contains no details on areas where there have been delays or problems, even where those have been very high profile and that it contained no lessons learned, not even those already set out in other government papers.\n\nIn December 2012 the Government published the 2012 update titled Annual report on the National Security Strategy and Strategic Defence and Security Review. The 2012 Update was over twice as long as the 2011 version and covered a much wider range of topics than the 2011 report, including details on the NSS, the SDSR and a range of security threats and challenges facing the UK.\n\nThe Joint Committee on the National Security Strategy published a press release in which the Chair of the Committee said:\n\n\"We welcome this year's Annual report on the National Security Strategy and Strategic Defence and Security Review which is much broader and more wide-ranging than last year's report. However we regret the fact that it is not yet as complete, transparent, and strategic as it could be. We hope the Government will take the opportunity in next year's report to focus more on the strategic aspects of events; for example this year's report ignores the strategic impact of the Eurozone crisis. It also glosses over other problems the Government has encountered this year. Omitting altogether difficulties such as the numerous problems there have been with Border Security in the last year fools no-one.\"\n\nThe UK presented its third NSS in November 2015 under the Conservative-led government. It combined it with its Strategic Defence and Security Review to form a single policy white paper. It is titled \"A Secure and Prosperous United Kingdom\".\n\nThe Joint Committee on the National Security Strategy was formed to respond to the 2010 NSS. This committee \"brings together 22 members of both the House of Commons and the House of Lords (including the chairs of the relevant Commons departmental select committees) to consider the 2010 National Security Strategy. It has the terms of reference are \"to consider the National Security Strategy\". The committee comprises 12 members from the House of Commons and 10 members of the House of Lords.\n\nThe Committee published its first report \"First review of the National Security Strategy 2010\" on 8 March 2012. The report addresses the National Security Strategy, the National Security Council (and the secretariat which supports it), and the National Security Adviser. It was agreed unanimously. The Committee welcomed the National Security Strategy but said that it was work in progress and needed to be improved. In a press release sent out with the report it said that:\n\n\nIt also said that the Government's unwillingness to provide it with all the information it had asked for about the National Security Risk Assessment means that it was unable to give Parliament any assurances about its adequacy.\n\n"}
{"id": "23312935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23312935", "title": "One Iowa", "text": "One Iowa\n\nOne Iowa is a statewide LGBTQ advocacy organization in Iowa. The organization works to preserve and advance equality for LGBTQ individuals in Iowa through advocacy, grassroots efforts, and education. It was instrumental in the state's Supreme Court ruling to overturn the ban on same-sex marriage.\n\nThe organization was founded in November 2006 following the 2005 suit filed by Lambda Legal that led to the \"Varnum v. Brien\" suit. At first, the emphasis of the group was marriage equality, but soon after formation, a board of directors was established and efforts were increased to include civil rights, civil marriage, LGBTQ families and aging.\n\nThe organization is a member of the Equality Federation.\n\nThe organization has used the Internet and other grassroots methods to spread its message. It established a Facebook page, a Twitter page, and has a website at www.oneiowa.org. During \"Varnum\", the group contacted residents and urged them to contact their local officials. They also held forums in towns throughout Iowa that included LGBT community members, individuals from the religious establishment and legal scholars, where they emphasized the need for marriage equality.\n\nFollowing \"Varnum\", the group was lauded for its grassroots efforts by the Gay & Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation. However, the group's efforts also faced criticism. Congressman Steve King (R-IA) remarked that the state would become \"a gay-marriage mecca\" following the court's decision. But a One Iowa spokesman maintained that the group's efforts concerned \"Iowa couples\" and that it was not his intention to turn the state into a \"sideshow.\"\n\nThe organization has since worked to educate court recorders on how to \"make sure gays and lesbian couples feel welcomed\" when applying for a marriage license, and have allowed for participants to choose from \"bride,\" \"groom\" or \"spouse\" on the document.\n\nIn coalition with its ally groups, One Iowa's achievements following \"Varnum\" also include defeating anti-marriage policies, modernizing Iowa’s HIV transmission law, urging Iowa Senators to stop blocking judicial nominees at the federal level, civil rights advocacy to protect the LGBT community against employment and housing discrimination, and establishing anti-bullying policies in Iowa’s schools.\n\nOne Iowa's work also includes educating Iowans about why marriage matters to gay and lesbian couples, ensuring that communities are safe for LGBTQ youth, reaching out to communities of faith, addressing concerns about Iowa’s aging and elder LGBT populations, and improving access to resources for transgender Iowans.\n\n"}
{"id": "28241548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28241548", "title": "Parliamentary constituencies of Botswana", "text": "Parliamentary constituencies of Botswana\n\nBotswana is divided into fifty-seven parliamentary constituencies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7041246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7041246", "title": "Pigou Club", "text": "Pigou Club\n\nThe Pigou Club is described by its creator, economist Greg Mankiw, as \"an elite group of economists and pundits with the good sense to have publicly advocated higher Pigovian taxes, such as gasoline taxes or carbon taxes.\"\n\nThese pundits and economists often advocate lowering other taxes to keep the total amount of taxes collected the same, though many have also proposed dedicating the revenue to other worthwhile projects. A Pigovian tax (also spelled Pigouvian tax, named after economist Arthur Cecil Pigou) is a tax levied to correct the negative externalities (negative side-effects) of a market activity. These ideas are also known as an Ecotax (or green tax shift).\n\nThe newsmagazine \"The Economist\" has repeatedly expressed support for Pigouvian policies as has \"The Washington Post\" Editorial Board, NPR's \"Planet Money\" and \"The New York Times\".\n\nThe group received a great deal of publicity when \"The New York Times\" published \"Raise the Gasoline Tax? Funny, It Doesn’t Sound Republican\" in 2006.\n\n"}
{"id": "31968224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31968224", "title": "Political power grows out of the barrel of a gun", "text": "Political power grows out of the barrel of a gun\n\nPolitical power grows out of the barrel of a gun is a phrase which was coined by Chinese communist leader Mao Zedong. The phrase was originally used by Mao during an emergency meeting of the Communist Party of China on 7 August 1927, at the beginning of the Chinese Civil War. Mao employed the phrase a second time on 6 November 1938, during his concluding speech at the sixth Plenary Session of the CPC's sixth Central Committee; again, the speech was concerned with the Civil War, and now also with World War II. A portion of the 1938 speech was excerpted and included in Mao's \"Selected Works\", with the title \"Problems of War and Strategy\". Finally in 1964, the central phrase was reproduced again and popularized as an early quotation in Mao's \"Quotations from Chairman Mao Tse-Tung\".\n\nThe 1938 paragraph containing the phrase is reproduced below; the central phrase (in bold), cited as deriving from the 1938 speech via the \"Selected Works\", is that given in Mao's \"Quotations\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4251643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4251643", "title": "Potassium ascorbate", "text": "Potassium ascorbate\n\nPotassium ascorbate is a compound with formula KCHO. It is the potassium salt of ascorbic acid (vitamin C) and a mineral ascorbate. As a food additive, it has E number E303, INS number 202. Although it is not a permitted food additive in the UK or the USA, it is approved for use in Australia and New Zealand.\n"}
{"id": "18668378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18668378", "title": "Quechers", "text": "Quechers\n\nQuEChERS is a solid phase extraction method for detection of pesticide residues in food. The name is a portmanteau word formed from \"quick, easy, cheap, effective, rugged, and safe\".\n\nThe sample (fruits, vegetables, tobacco, etc.) is homogenized and centrifuged with a reagent and agitated for 1 minute. The reagents used depend on the type of sample to be analyzed. Following this, the sample is put through a dispersive solid phase extraction cleanup prior to analysis by gas-liquid chromatography or liquid-liquid chromatography.\n\nSamples prepared using the QuEChERS method can be processed more quickly using a homogenization instrument. Such instruments can homogenize the food sample in a centrifuge tube, then agitate the sample with the reagent of choice, before moving the extracted sample for centrifuging. By using such an instrument, the samples can be moved through the QuEChERS method more quickly.\n\nSome modifications to the original QuEChERS method had to be introduced to ensure efficient extraction of pH-dependent compounds (e.g., phenoxyalkanoic acids), to minimize degradation of susceptible compounds (e.g., base and acid labile pesticides) and to expand the spectrum of matrices covered.\n\nThe QuEChERS method has been readily accepted by many pesticide residue analysts. \n"}
{"id": "26729461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26729461", "title": "Queer anarchism", "text": "Queer anarchism\n\nQueer anarchism (or anarcha-queer) is an anarchist school of thought that advocates anarchism and social revolution as a means of queer liberation and abolition of homophobia, lesbophobia, transmisogyny, biphobia, transphobia, heteronormativity, heterosexism, patriarchy and the gender binary. LGBT and anarchism who campaigned for LGBT rights both outside and inside the anarchist and LGBT movements include John Henry Mackay, Adolf Brand and Daniel Guérin. Individualist anarchist Adolf Brand published \"Der Eigene\", which was the first publication dedicated to gay issues in the world, published from 1896 to 1932 in Berlin.\n\nAnarchism's foregrounding of individual freedoms made for a natural defense of homosexuality in the eyes of many, both inside and outside of the anarchist movement. In ' (1923), Emil Szittya wrote about homosexuality that \"very many anarchists have this tendency. Thus I found in Paris a Hungarian anarchist, Alexander Sommi, who founded a homosexual anarchist group on the basis of this idea\". His view is confirmed by Magnus Hirschfeld in his 1914 book ': \"In the ranks of a relatively small party, the anarchist, it seemed to me as if proportionately more homosexuals and effeminates are found than in others\". Italian anarchist Luigi Bertoni (who Szittya also believed to be homosexual) observed: \"Anarchists demand freedom in everything, thus also in sexuality. Homosexuality leads to a healthy sense of egoism, for which every anarchist should strive\".\n\nIn Oscar Wilde's \"The Soul of Man under Socialism\", he passionately advocates for an egalitarian society where wealth is shared by all while warning of the dangers of authoritarian socialism that would crush individuality. He later commented: \"I think I am rather more than a Socialist. I am something of an Anarchist, I believe\". In August 1894, Wilde wrote to his lover Lord Alfred Douglas to tell of \"a dangerous adventure\". He had gone out sailing with two lovely boys—Stephen and Alphonso—and they were caught in a storm. \"We took five hours in an awful gale to come back! [And we] did not reach pier till eleven o’clock at night, pitch dark all the way, and a fearful sea. [...] All the fishermen were waiting for us\". Tired, cold and \"wet to the skin\", the three men immediately \"flew to the hotel for hot brandy and water\", but there was a problem as the law stood in the way: \"As it was past ten o’clock on a Sunday night the proprietor could not sell us any brandy or spirits of any kind! So he had to give it to us. The result was not displeasing, but what laws!\". Wilde finishes the story: \"Both Alphonso and Stephen are now anarchists, I need hardly say\".\nAnarcho-syndicalist writer Ulrich Linse wrote about \"a sharply outlined figure of the Berlin individualist anarchist cultural scene around 1900\", the \"precocious Johannes Holzmann\" (known as Senna Hoy): \"an adherent of free love, [Hoy] celebrated homosexuality as a 'champion of culture' and engaged in the struggle against Paragraph 175\". The young Hoy (born 1882) published these views in his weekly magazine (\"Struggle\") from 1904, which reached a circulation of 10,000 the following year. German anarchist psychotherapist Otto Gross also wrote extensively about same-sex sexuality in both men and women and argued against its discrimination. Heterosexual anarchist Robert Reitzel (1849–1898) spoke positively of homosexuality from the beginning of the 1890s in his German-language journal \"Der arme Teufel\" (Detroit).\n\nJohn Henry Mackay was an individualist anarchist known in the anarchist movement as an important early follower and propagandizer of the philosophy of Max Stirner. Alongside this, Mackay was also an early signer of (Magnus) Hirschfeld's \"Petition to the Legislative Bodies of the German Empire\" for \"a revision of the anti-homosexual paragraph 175 (his name appeared in the first list published in 1899)\". He also kept a special interest about Oscar Wilde and was outraged at his imprisonment for homosexual activity. Nevertheless, Mackay entered into conflict with Hirschfeld and his organization the Scientific Humanitarian Committee.\n\nThe individualist anarchist Adolf Brand was originally a member of Hirschfeld's Scientific Humanitarian Committee, but formed a break-away group. Brand and his colleagues, known as the \"Gemeinschaft der Eigenen\" (\"Community of Self-owners\"), were also heavily influenced by the writings of Stirner. They were opposed to Hirschfeld's medical characterization of homosexuality as the domain of an \"intermediate sex\". Ewald Tschek, another homosexual anarchist writer of the era, regularly contributed to Adolf Brand's journal \"\" and wrote in 1925 that Hirschfeld's Scientific Humanitarian Committee was a danger to the German people, caricaturing Hirschfeld as \"Dr. Feldhirsch\". Although Mackay was closer in views to Brand and his \"Community of Self-owners\" in some respects as compared to Hirschfeld's Scientific Humanitarian Committee, nevertheless he did not agree with Brand's antifeminism and almost misogynistic views believing his \"anarchist principle of equal freedom to all certainly applied to women as well as men\".\n\n\"\" was the first gay journal in the world, published from 1896 to 1932 by Brand in Berlin. Brand contributed many poems and articles himself. Other contributors included Benedict Friedlaender, Hanns Heinz Ewers, Erich Mühsam, Kurt Hiller, Ernst Burchard, John Henry Mackay, Theodor Lessing, Klaus Mann and Thomas Mann as well as artists Wilhelm von Gloeden, Fidus and Sascha Schneider. After the rise to power by the Nazis, Brand became a victim of persecution and had his journal closed.\n\nThe prominent American anarchist Emma Goldman was also an outspoken critic of prejudice against homosexuals. Her belief that social liberation should extend to gay men and lesbians was virtually unheard of at the time, even among anarchists. As Magnus Hirschfeld wrote, \"she was the first and only woman, indeed the first and only American, to take up the defense of homosexual love before the general public\". In numerous speeches and letters, she defended the right of gay men and lesbians to love as they pleased and condemned the fear and stigma associated with homosexuality. As Goldman wrote in a letter to Hirschfeld: \"It is a tragedy, I feel, that people of a different sexual type are caught in a world which shows so little understanding for homosexuals and is so crassly indifferent to the various gradations and variations of gender and their great significance in life\".\n\nDespite these supportive stances, the anarchist movement of the time certainly was not free of homophobia and an editorial in an influential Spanish anarchist journal from 1935 argued that an anarchist should not even associate with homosexuals, let alone be one: \"If you are an anarchist, that means that you are more morally upright and physically strong than the average man. And he who likes inverts is no real man, and is therefore no real anarchist\".\n\nLucía Sánchez Saornil was a main founder of the Spanish anarcha-feminist federation Mujeres Libres who was open about her lesbianism. At a young age, she began writing poetry and associated herself with the emerging Ultraist literary movement. By 1919, she had been published in a variety of journals, including \"Los Quijotes\", \"Tableros\", \"Plural\", \"Manantial\" and \"La Gaceta Literaria\". Working under a male pen name, she was able to explore lesbian themes at a time when homosexuality was criminalized and subject to censorship and punishment. Dissatisfied with the chauvinistic prejudices of fellow Republicans, Lucía Sánchez Saornil joined with two \"compañeras\", Mercedes Comaposada and Amparo Poch y Gascón, to form Mujeres Libres in 1936. Mujeres Libres was an autonomous anarchist organization for women committed to a \"double struggle\" of women's liberation and social revolution. Lucía and other \"Free Women\" rejected the dominant view that gender equality would emerge naturally from a classless society. As the Spanish Civil War exploded, Mujeres Libres quickly grew to 30,000 members, organizing women's social spaces, schools, newspapers and daycare programs.\nThe writings of the French bisexual anarchist Daniel Guérin offer an insight into the tension sexual minorities among the left have often felt. He was a leading figure in the French left from the 1930s until his death in 1988. After coming out in 1965, he spoke about the extreme hostility toward homosexuality that permeated the left throughout much of the 20th century. \"Not so many years ago, to declare oneself a revolutionary and to confess to being homosexual were incompatible\", Guérin wrote in 1975. In 1954, Guérin was widely attacked for his study of the Kinsey Reports in which he also detailed the oppression of homosexuals in France: \"The harshest [criticisms] came from marxists, who tend seriously to underestimate the form of oppression which is antisexual terrorism. I expected it, of course, and I knew that in publishing my book I was running the risk of being attacked by those to whom I feel closest on a political level\". After coming out publicly in 1965, Guérin was abandoned by the left and his papers on sexual liberation were censored or refused publication in left-wing journals. From the 1950s, Guérin moved away from Marxism–Leninism and toward a synthesis of anarchism and Marxism close to platformism, which allowed for individualism while rejecting capitalism. Guérin was involved in the uprising of May 1968 and was a part of the French gay liberation movement that emerged after the events. Decades later, Frédéric Martel described Guérin as the \"grandfather of the French homosexual movement\".\n\nMeanwhile in the United States, the influential anarchist thinker Paul Goodman came out late in his career as bisexual. The freedom with which he revealed in print and in public his romantic and sexual relations with men (notably in a late essay, \"Being Queer\"), proved to be one of the many important cultural springboards for the emerging gay liberation movement of the early 1970s.\n\nAnarcha-queer originated during the second half 20th century among anarchists involved in the gay liberation movement, who viewed anarchism as the road to harmony between heterosexual/cis people and LGBT people. Anarcha-queer has its roots deep in queercore, a form of punk rock that portrays homosexuality in a positive manner. Like most forms of punk rock, queercore attracts a large anarchist crowd. Anarchists are prominent in queercore zines. There are two main anarcha-queer groups: Queer Mutiny, a British group with branches in most major cities; and Bash Back!, an American network of queer anarchists. Queer Fist appeared in New York City and identifies itself as \"an anti-assimilationist, anti-capitalist, anti-authoritarian street action group, came together to provide direct action and a radical queer and trans-identified voice at the Republican National Convention (RNC) protests\".\n\nAnarcha-feminist collectives such as the Spanish squat Eskalera Karakola and the Bolivian Mujeres Creando give high importance to lesbian and bisexual female issues.\n\nThe Fag Army is a left-wing queer anarchist group in Sweden, which launched its first action on August 18, 2014 when it pied the Minister for Health and Social Affairs, Christian Democrat leader Göran Hägglund.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42074074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42074074", "title": "Regional Somali Language Academy", "text": "Regional Somali Language Academy\n\nThe Regional Somali Language Academy (RSLA) is an intergovernmental regulating body for the Somali language in the Horn region. As of February 2015, it is based in Djibouti City.\n\nOn 28 June 2013, the Government of Djibouti, the Federal Government of Somalia and the Government of Ethiopia launched the Regional Somali Language Academy at a ceremony in Djibouti City. The event was organized by Djibouti's Ministry of Islamic Affairs, Culture and Waqf in conjunction with the Somali-Speaking PEN Centre of Djibouti, and was attended by around 50 prominent Somali-speaking intellectuals from the region and elsewhere. Among the guests were Somalia's Minister of Information, Posts and Telecommunications Abdullahi Elmoge Hersi, the Somaliland region in northwestern Somalia's Minister of Culture Abiib Diriye Nur, and the Vice President of the Somali Region of Ethiopia Abdihakim Igal Omar.\n\nIn January 2015, President of Somalia Hassan Sheikh Mohamud announced that the Regional Somali Language Academy was slated to be finalized in conjunction with the governments of Djibouti and Ethiopia. Among the scheduled projects was the construction of a new headquarters for the Academy in Mogadishu, in recognition of Somalia's traditional position as the center for the development and promotion of the Somali language. In February 2015, the foundation stone for the new Regional Somali Language Academy was officially laid at an inauguration ceremony in Mogadishu attended by President Mohamud, President of Djibouti Ismaïl Omar Guelleh, federal cabinet ministers, legislators and delegates.\n\nThe academy is the first such regional language regulator for Somali. It is officially mandated with preserving the Somali language and culture in Greater Somalia. , there is no representation for the Somali-speaking community in Kenya.\n"}
{"id": "700607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=700607", "title": "Robert Jungk", "text": "Robert Jungk\n\nRobert Jungk (; born \"Robert Baum\", also known as \"Robert Baum-Jungk\"; May 11, 1913 – July 14, 1994) was an Austrian writer and journalist who wrote mostly on issues relating to nuclear weapons.\n\nJungk was born into a Jewish family in Berlin. His father was David Baum (pseudonym: Max Jungk, 1872, Miskovice – 1937, Prague). When Adolf Hitler came to power, Jungk was arrested and released, moved to Paris, then back to Nazi Germany to work in a subversive press service. These activities forced him to move through various cities, such as Prague, Paris, and Zurich, during World War II. He continued journalism after the war.\n\nHe is also well known as the inventor of future workshop which are a method for social innovation, participation by the concerned and visionary future planning \"from below\". In chapter six of his book \"The Big Machine\", Jungk described CERN as the place to find the \"first Planetarians, earth dwellers who no longer feel loyalty to a single nation, a single continent, or a single political creed, but to common knowledge that they advance together.\" There is an international library in Salzburg called Robert-Jungk-Bibliothek für Zukunftsfragen (Robert Jungk Library for Questions about the Future).\n\nHis book \"\" was the first published account of the Manhattan Project and the German atomic bomb project, and its first Danish edition included a passage which implied that the project had been purposely dissuaded from developing a weapon by Werner Heisenberg and his associates (a claim strongly contested by Niels Bohr), and lead to a series of questions over a 1941 meeting between Bohr and Heisenberg in Copenhagen, Denmark, which was later the basis for Michael Frayn's 1998 play, \"Copenhagen\".\n\nIn 1986, he received the Right Livelihood Award.\n\nIn 1992 he made an unsuccessful bid for the Austrian presidency on behalf of the Green Party.\n\nJungk died in Salzburg.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2906133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2906133", "title": "Sequestrant", "text": "Sequestrant\n\nA sequestrant is a food additive which improves the quality and stability of foods. A sequestrant forms chelate complexes with polyvalent metal ions, especially copper, iron and nickel, which can prevent the oxidation of the fats in the food. Sequestrants are a type of preservative.\n\nThe name comes from Latin and means \"to withdraw from use\" .\n\nCommon sequestrants are:\n\nSodium and calcium salts of EDTA are also commonly used in many foods and beverages.\n"}
{"id": "11307201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11307201", "title": "Steward (office)", "text": "Steward (office)\n\nA steward is an official who is appointed by the legal ruling monarch to represent them in a country, and may have a mandate to govern it in their name; in the latter case, synonymous with the position of regent, vicegerent, viceroy (for Romance languages), governor, or deputy (the Roman \"rector\", \"praefectus\" or \"vicarius\").\n\nFrom Old English \"stíweard, stiȝweard\", from \"stiȝ\" \"hall, household\" + \"weard\" \"warden, keeper\"; corresponding to Dutch: \"stadhouder\", German \"Statthalter\" \"place holder\", a Germanic parallel to French \"lieutenant\".\n\nThe Old English term \"stíweard\" is attested from the 11th century. Its first element is most probably \"stiȝ-\" \"house, hall\" (attested only in composition; its cognate \"stiȝu\" is the ancestor of Modern English \"sty\"). Old French \"estuard\" and Old Norse \"stívarðr\" are adopted from the Old English.\n\nThe German and Dutch term (Middle High German \"stat-halter\") is a parallel but independent formation (a calque of \"lieutenant\") corresponding to obsolete English \"stead holder\" (\"stede haldare\" 1456; also \"stedys beryng\" (1460), \"sted-haldande\" (1375) \"steadward\", \"steadsman\").\n\nIn medieval times, the steward was initially a servant who supervised both the lord's estate and his household. However over the course of the next century, other household posts arose and involved more responsibilities. This meant that in the 13th century, there were commonly two stewards in each house—one who managed the gang estate and the other, the \"majordomo\", to manage domestic routine. Stewards commonly earned up to 3 to 4 pounds per year. Stewards took care of their lord's castles when they were away. Also, stewards checked on the taxes of the serfs on his lord's manor.\n\nThe Lord High Steward of England held a position of power in the 12th to 14th centuries, and the Lord Steward is the first dignitary of the court. The Stewart family traces its appellation to the office of the High Steward of Scotland. Lord High Steward of Ireland is a hereditary office held since the 15th century.\n\nIn the Netherlands, it developed into a rare type of \"de facto\" hereditary head of state of the thus crowned Dutch Republic.\n\nStadtholders were appointed by feudal lords to govern parts of their territory. Stadtholders could be appointed for the whole or parts of their territory by the local rulers of the independent provinces in the Low Countries, e.g. the Duke of Gelre appointed a stadtholder to represent him in Groningen. In the Low Countries (which included present-day Netherlands, Belgium and Luxembourg) from the Middle Ages to the 18th century, this was originally an essentially honorary title awarded by the Spanish Habsburg kings to major noblemen in each province. But its nature changed drastically.\n\n\nIn Norway the office of \"Statholder\" existed both during the Dano-Norwegian personal union from 1536 to 1814 and during the Swedish-Norwegian personal union from 1814 until it was abolished in 1873, while the union lasted until 1905. During the latter, the office was also known as \"Rigsstatholder\", i.e. Lieutenant of the Realm. The \"Statholder\" governed Norway on behalf of the King. As Norway was a separate kingdom with its own laws and institutions, it was arguably the most influential office in both Denmark-Norway and in the Swedish-Norwegian realm second to that of the king. The office was sometimes held by the Crown Prince, who was styled as Viceroy.\n\nThe term \"Statholder\" (from German \"Statthalter\") means \"place holder\", i.e. the one governing on behalf of the king. The modern Norwegian spelling is \"stattholder\".\n\nThe Croatian office of the Ban was equivalent of a viceroy. Ban was appointed by the monarch (King of Croats until 1102, King of Hungary 1102–1526, Austrian ruler 1527–1918) with a mandate to govern a part of country, or whole country, in the name of the King of Dalmatia, Croatia and Slavonia.\n\nBosnia was a banate of the Kingdom of Hungary 1136–1377. During that period Bosnia was governed by an autonomous hereditary viceroy, called ban. The last of them, Tvrtko, became the first king of the Kingdom of Bosnia.\n\nThe Russian equivalent of \"stadtholder\" is posadnik; the term sometimes occurs as \"stadtholder\" in English-language literature. Although there were such legendary posadniks as Gostomysl (9th century), the term first appeared in the Primary Chronicle under the year of 997 to denote the most senior official of an Eastern Slavic town. The earliest posadniks of the city of Novgorod (\"Holmgard\") include a dynasty composed of Dobrynya, his son Konstantin Dobrynich and Ostromir.\n\nThe office of Steward or Grand Steward is an elected office of merit in Freemasonry. The main duty of the Steward is to attend on visitors and to assist other Officers in their duties. The Grand Stewards may provide special assistance at Lodge Installations. The Stewards Jewel consists of a cornucopia with compasses above.\n\n"}
{"id": "47714459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47714459", "title": "The Matsunaga Institute for Peace and Conflict Resolution", "text": "The Matsunaga Institute for Peace and Conflict Resolution\n\nThe Matsunaga Institute for Peace and Conflict Resolution is a multi-disciplinary community of scholars, students and practitioners who, through academic programs and outreach, promote cross-cultural understanding and collaborative problem-solving. The institute emphasizes critical thinking and collaboration to groom leaders to address contemporary and complex issues in Hawaii, the Asia-Pacific region and the world.\n\nThe institute is dedicated to honoring the memory of the former U.S. Senator Spark Matsunaga and implementing his hope that \"every student enrolled in Hawai'i's public university system will be exposed to peace studies\". Peace education and Conflict resolution are major components of the institute's academic programs.\n\n"}
{"id": "24188886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24188886", "title": "Time temperature indicator", "text": "Time temperature indicator\n\nA time temperature indicator (TTI) is a device or smart label that shows the accumulated time-temperature history of a product. Time temperature indicators are commonly used on food, pharmaceutical, and medical products to indicate exposure to excessive temperature (and time at temperature).\n\nIn contrast, a Temperature data logger measures and records the temperatures for a specified time period. The digital data can be downloaded and analyzed.\n\nThere are a large number of different time temperature indicators available in the market, based on different technologies. Some devices are based migration of dye through a filter paper, while others contain pouches with bacterial fluids that change color when certain time-temperature combinations have been reached. To the degree that these physical changes in the indicator match the degradation rate of the food, the indicator can help indicate probable food degradation.\n\nDigital Temperature data loggers are available to indicate the full temperature history of a shipment to help identify the time period that out-of-tolerance temperatures were encountered. This temperature history can be used to calculate the loss of shelf life or the likelihood of spoilage. These small recorders are also used to identify the time (and thus location) of a shipment when the problem occurred, which allows for corrective action.\n\nTime-temperature indicators can be used on food products that are dependent on a controlled temperature environment. Certain technologies can also be used for frozen food and the cold chain.\n\nSurveys within the EU projects \"Freshlabel\" and \"Chill-on\" have shown a positive feedback by consumers to the use of TTIs on food products. As TTIs help assure the cool chain of food products, they are expected to reduce the amount of food waste, as well as reducing the number of foodborne illnesses.\n\nThe World Health Organization regulates the use of TTIs for certain medical products. There is extensive regulation by the FDA on the use of TTIs on US seafood products.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24128731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24128731", "title": "Trailblazer Project", "text": "Trailblazer Project\n\nTrailblazer was a United States National Security Agency (NSA) program intended to develop a capability to analyze data carried on communications networks like the Internet. It was intended to track entities using communication methods such as cell phones and e-mail.\n\nNSA employees J. Kirk Wiebe, William Binney, Ed Loomis, and House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence staffer Diane Roark complained to the Department of Defense's Inspector General (IG) about waste, fraud, and abuse in the program, and the fact that a successful operating prototype existed. The complaint was accepted by the IG and an investigation began that lasted until mid-2005 when the final results were issued. The results were largely hidden, as the report given to the public was heavily (90%) redacted, while the original report was heavily classified, thus restricting the ability of most people to see it.\n\nThe people who filed the IG complaint were later raided by armed Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) agents. While the Government threatened to prosecute all who signed the IG report, it ultimately chose to pursue an NSA Senior Executive Thomas Andrews Drake who helped with the report internally to NSA and who had spoken with a reporter about the project. Drake was later charged under the Espionage Act of 1917. His defenders claimed this was retaliation. The charges against him were later dropped, and he agreed to plead guilty to having committed a misdemeanor under the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act, something that Jesselyn Radack of the Government Accountability Project (which helped represent him) called an \"act of civil disobedience\".\n\nTrailblazer was chosen over a similar program named ThinThread, a less costly project which had been designed with built-in privacy protections for United States citizens. Trailblazer was later linked to the NSA electronic surveillance program and the NSA warrantless surveillance controversy.\n\nIn 2002 a consortium led by Science Applications International Corporation was chosen by the NSA to produce a technology demonstration platform in a contract worth $280 million. Project participants included Boeing, Computer Sciences Corporation, and Booz Allen Hamilton. The project was overseen by NSA Deputy Director William B. Black, Jr., an NSA worker who had gone to SAIC, and then been re-hired back to NSA by NSA director Michael Hayden in 2000. SAIC had also hired a former NSA director to its management: Bobby Inman. SAIC also participated in the concept definition phase of Trailblazer.\n\nThe NSA Inspector General issued a report on Trailblazer that \"discussed improperly based contract cost increases, non-conformance in the management of the Statement of Work, and excessive labor rates for contractor personnel.\"\n\nIn 2004 the DoD IG report criticized the program (see the Whistleblowing section below). It said that the \"NSA 'disregarded solutions to urgent national security needs'\" and \"that TRAILBLAZER was poorly executed and overly expensive ...\" Several contractors for the project were worried about cooperating with DoD's audit for fear of \"management reprisal.\" The Director of NSA \"nonconcurred\" with several statements in the IG audit, and the report contains a discussion of those disagreements.\n\nIn 2005, NSA director Michael Hayden told a Senate hearing that the Trailblazer program was several hundred million dollars over budget and years behind schedule. In 2006 the program was shut down, after having cost billions of US Dollars. Several anonymous NSA sources told \"Newsweek\" later on that the project was a \"wasteful failure\".\n\nThe new project replacing Trailblazer is called Turbulence.\n\nAccording to a 2011 \"New Yorker\" article, in the early days of the project several NSA employees met with Diane S Roark, an NSA budget expert on the House Intelligence Committee. They aired their grievances about Trailblazer. In response, NSA director Michael Hayden sent out a memo saying that \"individuals, in a session with our congressional overseers, took a position in direct opposition to one that we had corporately decided to follow ... Actions contrary to our decisions will have a serious adverse effect on our efforts to transform N.S.A., and I cannot tolerate them.\"\n\nIn September 2002, several people filed a complaint with the Department of Defense IG's office regarding problems with Trailblazer: they included Roark (aforementioned), as well as ex-NSA senior analysts Bill Binney, Kirk Wiebe, and Senior Computer Systems Analyst Ed Loomis, who had all quit the agency over concerns about its mismanagement of acquisition and allegedly illegal domestic spying. A major source for the report was NSA senior officer Thomas Andrews Drake. Drake had been complaining to his superiors for some time about problems at the agency, and about the superiority of ThinThread over Trailblazer, for example, at protecting privacy. Drake gave info to DoD during its investigation of the matter. Roark also went to her boss at the House committee, Porter Goss, about problems, but was rebuffed. She also attempted to contact William Rehnquist, the Supreme Court Chief Justice at the time.\n\nDrake's own boss, Maureen Baginski, the third-highest officer at NSA, quit partly over concerns about the legality of its behavior.\n\nIn 2003, the NSA IG (not the DoD IG) had declared Trailblazer an expensive failure. It had cost more than $1 billion.\n\nIn 2005, the DoD IG produced a report on the result of its investigation of the complaint of Roark and the others in 2002. This report was not released to the public, but it has been described as very negative. Mayer writes that it hastened the closure of Trailblazer, which was at the time in trouble from Congress for being over budget.\n\nIn November 2005, Drake contacted Siobhan Gorman, a reporter of \"The Baltimore Sun\". Gorman wrote several articles about problems at the NSA, including articles on Trailblazer. This series got her an award from the Society of Professional Journalists.\n\nIn 2005, President George W. Bush ordered the FBI to find whoever had disclosed information about the NSA electronic surveillance program and its disclosure in the \"New York Times\". Eventually, this investigation led to the people who had filed the 2002 DoD IG request, even though they had nothing to do with the \"New York Times\" disclosure. In 2007, the houses of Roark, Binney, and Wiebe were raided by armed FBI agents. According to Mayer, Binney claims the FBI pointed guns at his head and that of his wife. Wiebe said it reminded him of the Soviet Union. None of these people were ever charged with any crime. Four months later, Drake was raided in November 2007 and his computers and documents were confiscated.\n\nIn 2010 Drake was indicted by the U.S. Department of Justice on charges of obstructing justice, providing false information, and violating the Espionage Act of 1917, part of President Barack Obama's crackdown on whistleblowers and \"leakers\". The government tried to get Roark to testify to a conspiracy, and made similar requests to Drake, offering him a plea bargain. They both refused.\n\nIn June 2011, the ten original charges against Drake were dropped; instead he pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor.\n\n"}
{"id": "1080292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1080292", "title": "Two Concepts of Liberty", "text": "Two Concepts of Liberty\n\n\"Two Concepts of Liberty\" was the inaugural lecture delivered by the liberal philosopher Isaiah Berlin before the University of Oxford on 31 October 1958. It was subsequently published as a 57-page pamphlet by Oxford at the Clarendon Press. It also appears in the collection of Berlin's papers entitled \"Four Essays on Liberty\" (1969) and was more recently reissued in a collection entitled simply \"Liberty\" (2002).\n\nThe essay, with its analytical approach to the definition of political concepts, re-introduced the study of political philosophy to the methods of analytic philosophy. It is also one of Berlin's first expressions of his ethical ontology of value-pluralism. Berlin defined negative liberty (as the term \"liberty\" was used by Thomas Hobbes ) as the absence of coercion or interference with agents' possible private actions, by an exterior social-body. He also defined it as a comparatively recent political ideal, which re-emerged in the late 17th century, after its slow and inarticulate birth in the Ancient doctrines of Antiphon the Sophist, the Cyrenaic discipleship, and of Otanes after the death of pseudo-Smerdis. In an introduction to the essay, Berlin writes: \n\"As for Otanes, he wished neither to rule nor to be ruled—the exact opposite of Aristotle's notion of true civic liberty. ... [This ideal] remains isolated and, until Epicurus, undeveloped ... the notion had not explicitly emerged\".\n\nPositive liberty may be understood as self-mastery, and includes one's having a role in choosing who governs the society of which one is a part. Berlin traced positive liberty from Aristotle's definition of citizenship, which is historically derived from the social role of the freemen of classical Athens: it was, Berlin argued, the liberty in choosing their government granted to citizens, and extolled, most famously, by Pericles. Berlin granted that both concepts of liberty represent valid human ideals, and that both forms of liberty are necessary in any free and civilised society.\n\nFor Berlin, negative liberty represents a different, and sometimes contradictory, understanding of the concept of liberty, which needs to be carefully examined. Its later proponents (such as Tocqueville, Constant, Montesquieu, John Locke, David Hume and John Stuart Mill, who accepted Chrysippus' understanding of self-determination) insisted that constraint and discipline were the antithesis of liberty and so were (and are) less prone to confusing liberty and constraint in the manner of rationalists and the philosophical harbingers of totalitarianism. This concept of negative liberty, Berlin argued, constitutes an alternative, and sometimes even opposed, concept to positive liberty, and one often closer to the intuitive modern usage of the word. Berlin considered negative liberty one of the distinguishing concepts of modern liberalism and observed\n\nIsaiah Berlin notes that historically positive liberty has proven particularly susceptible to rhetorical abuse; especially from the 18th century onwards, it has either been paternalistically re-drawn from the third-person, or conflated with the concept of negative liberty and thus disguised underlying value-conflicts.\n\nBerlin contended that under the influence of Plato, Aristotle, Jean-Jacques Rousseau, Immanuel Kant, and G. W. F. Hegel, modern political thinkers often conflated positive liberty with rational action, based upon a rational knowledge to which, it is argued, only a certain elite or social group has access. This rationalist conflation was open to political abuses, which encroached on negative liberty, when such interpretations of positive liberty were, in the nineteenth century, used to defend nationalism, paternalism, social engineering, historicism, and collective rational control over human destiny. Berlin argued that, following this line of thought, demands for freedom paradoxically could become demands for forms of collective control and discipline—those deemed necessary for the \"self-mastery\" or \"self-determination\" of nations, classes, democratic communities, and even humanity as a whole. There is thus an elective affinity, for Berlin, between positive liberty, when it is rhetorically conflated with goals imposed from the third-person that the individual is told they \"should\" rationally desire, and the justifications for political totalitarianism, which contrary to value-pluralism, presupposed that values exist in Pythagorean harmony. \n\nBerlin did not argue that the concept of positive liberty should be rejected—on the contrary, he recognised it as one human value among many, and one necessary to any free society. He argued that positive liberty was a genuine and valuable version of liberty, so long as it was identified with the autonomy of individuals, and not with the achievement of goals that individuals 'ought to' 'rationally' desire. Berlin argued, rather, that these differing concepts showed the plurality, and incompatibility of human values, and the need to analytically distinguish and trade-off between, rather than conflate, them.\n\nThus, Berlin offers in his \"Two Concepts of Liberty\" essay, \"Where it is to be drawn is a matter of argument, indeed of haggling. Men are largely interdependent, and no man's activity is so completely private as never to obstruct the lives of others in any way. 'Freedom for the pike is death for the minnows'; the liberty of some must depend on the restraint of others. Freedom for an Oxford don, others have been known to add, is a very different thing from freedom for an Egyptian peasant.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19489191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19489191", "title": "Viața Românească", "text": "Viața Românească\n\nViața Românească (, \"The Romanian Life\") is a monthly literary magazine published in Romania. Formerly the platform of the left-wing traditionalist trend known as poporanism, it is now one of the Writers' Union of Romania's main venues.\n\nThe magazine, dedicated to literary and scientific issues, was published from March 1906 to August 1916 and from September 1920 to September 1940, first in Iași and then, after 1930, in Bucharest. The magazine was under the leadership of Constantin Stere (in charge of political content), Paul Bujor and, later, Ioan Cantacuzino (for scientific matters), Garabet Ibrăileanu (until 1933), Mihai Ralea and George Călinescu (for literary matters).\nSuppressed by the fascist National Legionary State in 1940, \"Viața Românească\" resumed publishing, first in a transitional form, from November 1944 to July 1946, when it was edited by Ralea. Finally, the present magazine was published from July 1948 as a monthly magazine of the Romanian Writers' Society and, from March 1949, of the Writers' Union of Romania.\n\n"}
{"id": "34046319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34046319", "title": "Vietnam Border Defence Force", "text": "Vietnam Border Defence Force\n\nVietnam Border Defence Force () is branch of the Vietnam People's Army, as the core, responsible management and protection of the sovereignty, territorial integrity, security, order and national boundaries on the mainland, islands, sea and at the gate as shall by law and is a force members in provincial areas of defence, border districts of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam.\n\nOn 19 November 1958, the Politburo of the Communist Party of Vietnam decided to unite national defence forces and army units whose missions were domestic protection, border protection, beach defence, boundary security, and other forces in charge of guarding domestic international borders, under the management of the Police Department, and named them the \"Guard forces\". Guard forces including Border Guard and Homeland Guard.\n\nAccording to the resolution of the Politburo, Border Guard is responsible for:\n\nHomeland Guard is responsible for (this task transferred to police protection under the General Department of Police, Ministry of Public Security):\n\nOn 3 March 1959, the Prime Minister of Vietnam signed Decision No. 100 - TTg on the establishment of an armed force in charge of border protection and domestic, to be known as the People's Armed Police, set under the leadership of the Ministry of Public Security. This date is taken as the date of establishment of the Vietnam Border Defence Force.\n\nCeremony set up the People's Armed Police was held on the evening of 28 March 1959, at 19 hours, at the Military Club, Hanoi.\n\nBy the end of 1979 the People's Armed Police was renamed Border Defence Force and transferred under the Ministry of Defence (Vietnam). In 1988, the Border Defence Force moved to directly under the Ministry of Interior until late in 1995, then moved to the Ministry of Defence (Vietnam).\n\nBorder Defence Force is the core force in charge, in co-ordination with other armed forces, localities and departments concerned and depend on people to manage, protect borders, maintaining security political, social order and safety in the border areas, maintaining the external border. Border Defence Force operates under the laws of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, the international treaties relating to the sovereignty, national security and border on the mainland, islands, seas and border gates that the Socialist Republic of Vietnam has signed or acceded to.\n\nThe organisational system of Border Defence Force includes three levels: Command (Central), Command provinces; Border posts.\n\nCommand of Border Defence Force\n\nBorder Command of the Provinces and Municipalities of Vietnam\n\nBorder posts\n"}
{"id": "15085366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15085366", "title": "Willie Haughey", "text": "Willie Haughey\n\nWilliam Haughey, Baron Haughey, OBE (born 1956 in Glasgow) is a Scottish businessman, philanthropist and chairman of City Facilities Management Holdings Ltd.\n\nHaughey had attended Holyrood Secondary School followed by Langside College, and then worked in the refrigeration and air conditioning industry in Abu Dhabi before returning to Scotland to set up his own business with £70,000 of savings he had accrued. He founded City Refrigeration, a refrigeration equipment and maintenance supplier, with his wife Susan in 1985.\nAfter securing a service contract with the Tennent's company in the 1980s which led to agreements with further breweries, he sold a majority stake to the 3i equity firm. A downturn in the financial situation caused Haughey to sell two other small companies he had established back to City to increase turnover and broaden the range of services provided by the firm. In 1997 the firm signed a deal with Asda to maintain refrigeration equipment in stores throughout the United Kingdom. Due to the success of that venture, Haughey and his wife found themselves able to buy back almost full control of City from 3i in 1999, allowing them to have decisive input on its future strategic direction; a gradual, continuous expansion of its operations followed over the subsequent decades.\n\nHaughey backed the Entrepreneurial Spark start-up accelerator, hosting the Glasgow 'hatchery' in his City Refrigeration Headquarters.\n\nThe City corporate headquarters are at \"Caledonia House\" in Gorbals, Glasgow, having relocated from nearby Shawfield in 2009 when those premises were demolished for construction of the M74 motorway completion. The new site was virtually on the site of Haughey's childhood home which had been demolished years earlier. The technical division is located in Clydesmill Industrial Estate near to Cambuslang.\n\nBy 2017, the company had been rebranded as \"City Facilities Management\" and launched a European arm, headquartered in Paris. Their international clients include Coles Supermarkets in Australia.\n\nHaughey married Susan in 1978. He has one son Kenny. In his spare time he enjoys playing golf and tournament poker. He once revealed that he winds down every Friday night with a fish supper.\n\nHe is a Celtic F.C. season ticket holder and was formerly a non-executive director of the club. He was close friends with former Celtic player Jimmy Johnstone before his death, and is a collector of club memorabilia, much of which (including the medal collections of Johnstone and Tommy Gemmell) he has loaned back to Celtic for display in their museum.\nHe also provided £2 million in funding to the Scottish Cup while the tournament did not have a main sponsor between 2008 and 2010, with the Scottish Government allowed to use the 'branding space' competition to promote their Homecoming Scotland 2009 and \"Active Nation\" initiatives.\n\nHe is a huge Oasis fan and has confessed to liking 80s band A-ha after a City employee offered him free tickets to an A-ha concert during the band's 2010 farewell tour.\n\nHaughey gave over £5 million to charity over a five year period. In January 2011 Haughey presented a cheque for £100,000 to UNICEF ambassador Sir Alex Ferguson to support the charity’s work with child flood victims in Pakistan. In 2010 alone, he made charitable donations of £1.3 million.\n\nHe was awarded an OBE in 2003 and was knighted in the 2012 Birthday Honours for services to business and philanthropy.\nOn 1 August 2013, it was announced he was going to be a Labour peer in the House of Lords.\n\nHaughey has been named in several newspaper reports in connection with the resignation of Steven Purcell, the leader of Glasgow City Council until 2010.\n\nIn 2011, Haughey had planning permission for the conversion of Greenleeshill Farm, situated on greenbelt land in South Lanarkshire, with panoramic views over Glasgow into a mansion resembling the White House US presidential residence.\n\nOn 18 September 2013 he was created a life peer taking the title Baron Haughey, of Hutchesontown in the City of Glasgow.\n\nThe 2017 edition of the Sunday Times Rich List estimated his family's fortune at £265 million.\n\nIn 2018, Haughey was reported as having become involved in discussions between the Scottish Football Association and Queen's Park F.C. over the future use of Hampden Park, the stadium used by the former but owned by the latter. With the SFA threatening to move their matches to Edinburgh and unwilling to pay more than £2 million to buy Hampden from Queen's Park while the club demanded £6 million, Haughey stepped in with an offer to 'split the difference' by adding a contribution to raise the purchase offer to £4 million, in order for Scotland matches and cup finals to remain in their traditional Glasgow home.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52087661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52087661", "title": "Youth unemployment in Italy", "text": "Youth unemployment in Italy\n\nYouth unemployment in Italy discusses the statistics, trends, causes and consequences concerning the topic of unemployment among young Italians. \n\nAccording to the European Union’s standards, youth unemployment refers to people of age between 15 and 24. Italy displays one of the highest rates of youth unemployment among the 35 member countries of the Organization of Economic Co-Operation and Development (OECD). The Italian youth unemployment rate started raising dramatically since the 2008 financial crisis reaching its peak of 42.67% in 2014. In 2017, among the EU member states, the youth unemployment rate of Italy (35.1%) was exceeded by only Spain and Greece. The Italian youth unemployment rate was more than the double of the total EU average rate of 16.7% in 2017. While youth unemployment is extremely high compared to EU standards, the Italian total unemployment rate (11.1%) is closer to EU average (7.4%).\nYouth unemployment in Italy is quantified by many measures. According to EU statistics, 10.6% of all Italian 15–24 year-olds were unemployed in 2015. Comparatively, in the European Union 28 the rate that year was 8.4%. These levels are deceptively low because they include both active and inactive youth, which counts students and those not looking for work. Leaving out the inactive population, 40.3% of 15–24 year-olds who were actively part of the labor force were unemployed in 2015. 22% of the same population had been unemployed for 12 or more months, meaning more than half of the unemployed active Italian youth had been so long-term. Yet another subset of the youth population is neither in employment nor in education and training (NEET), which in 2015 represented 21.4% of Italy's 15–24 year-olds. In addition to complete unemployment, Italian youth also have high levels of underemployment. The number of 15–24 year-olds who worked full-time (30 hours per week) dropped from 1,597,000 in 2000 to 676,000 in 2015, while the number of part-time workers increased from 172,000 to 237,000 people. Furthermore, 83.7% of the young part-time workers in 2015 did so involuntarily because they could not find full-time employment.\n\nFrom a structural perspective, Italy's problem of youth unemployment is caused by its protectionist welfare system and labor market. In 2015, 62.4% 15–24 year-olds who were registered unemployed for 6–11 months did not receive any benefits or assistance; the same rate measured in the population of 15–74 year-olds was 52.4%. Though this demonstrates that benefits are exclusive for people of all ages in Italy, the young unemployed are left out at a rate 10% higher than the general population. This can be attributed to the country's corporatist structure; similarly to Greece, Spain, and Portugal (grouped into the \"Southern Model\" of European welfare) benefits in Italy are distributed in a very fragmented manner according to occupation. There are separate benefit schemes, or \"micro-schemes\", for specific private and public sectors, types of self-employment, and the large group of industrial workers called INPS. This system is split into the core group of labor market insiders receives generous benefits (such as pensions), while the irregular workers receive minimal benefits. For example, upon retirement an institutional worker would receive a pension of 89% their average net earnings, but a non-institutional worker would receive only 19%. Paradoxically, this \"economic protection\" model makes it difficult for young people to get their first job because they have never been part of the labor market. To illustrate, the unemployment benefits given to an Italian 18 year-old who has never had a job is 0% of average net earnings. In addition to receiving nonexistent/minimal benefits, a study also found youth were excluded based on factors including: the prerequisites for coverage, the age coverage is extended to, and sanctions for incorrectly using the system. Italy's model has exclusive unemployment benefits coupled with inflexible labor market policy (which means workers have high employment protection and are unlikely to be fired), which creates inhospitable conditions for young people seeking jobs.\n\nItaly's university system is another force driving youth unemployment. In 2005, the gap between finishing school and obtaining employment 51.3 months, much higher than the EU average of 30 months. Though 75% of Italian students earn a high school diploma that qualifies them to enter a university (one of the highest levels out of the OECD countries), only 70% of those students actually enroll in a university. Of those who do attend a university, the educational system leaves them unprepared for the labor market. One reason is that students do not have contact with the labor market and do not gain work experience; 26.1% of unemployed youth have zero work experience, and until recently universities did not even have career services to connect students to job opportunities. Courses generally do not involve practical application of the subject and there are not many educational internships. Another characteristic of the Italian university system is that students take an extended amount of time to finish their degrees (for instance, students are allowed to retake their final exams up to six times). Graduates are then overqualified for the labor market, meaning they have a higher skill level than what is in demand (called a vertical mismatch). This forces university graduates to take jobs usually reserved for people with lower skill levels, such as those with secondary education or other post-secondary training. Young non-university graduates then experience higher rates of unemployment (45%) than their degree-holding counterparts (25.6%).\n\nIn the last years, the media in Italy increasingly addresses the issue of the international migration flows of young people as a phenomenon of brain drain. The high rate of unemployment encourages young citizens to leave the country. In fact, the main reason of the high numbers of young people leaving the country is the prospect of job opportunities abroad. Youth emigration as a consequence results in the Italian government losing its investments in education and a considerable amount of young labor force. In the majority of the cases, the young unemployed emigrate in either other countries of the EU (mainly the United Kingdom and Germany) or in the United States and Australia. In 2016, more than 39% of Italian emigrants were of age between 18 and 34. Additionally, the percentage of young Italian emigrants is increasing every year at a steady rate. \n\nIt is often argued that Italy is made up of two different economies, one belonging to the North and one to the South. In terms of youth unemployment, there is a regional divide between North and South within Italy. In 2016, Italy presented one of the most internally diverse regional unemployment rates among the EU member states (together with other Southern European countries such as Greece and Spain). More than half of the young population was unemployed in the southern regions of Italy (Calabria, Campania, Puglia and Sicilia). More precisely, the youth unemployment rates of Calabria reached an historical European peak of 58.7% in 2016. On the other hand, unemployment rates in the northern regions (such as Lombardia, Piemonte and Veneto) varied between 5% and 10%.\n"}
