{"id": "57302197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57302197", "title": "2018 North Carolina teachers' strike", "text": "2018 North Carolina teachers' strike\n\nThe 2018 North Carolina teachers' rally was a rally and protest that began on May 16, 2018, with teachers in North Carolina walking out in protest of deflating wages and decreased employee benefits.\n\nThe rally is part of the larger wave of teachers' strikes in the United States where protests occurred in West Virginia, Oklahoma, Colorado, and Arizona.\n\nAhead of the protests the average salary for a teacher in North Carolina was $49,970, which ranked 44th in the nation according to a report by the National Education Association. Public school revenue per student in North Carolina ranked 43rd in the nation $9,675.\n\nThe North Carolina Association of Educators (NCAE) demanded that the Government of North Carolina enacted legislation that increase per pupil spending, a multi-year pay plan for teachers, support staff, administrators, and all school personnel, which includes the restoration of compensation for longevity and advanced degrees. Additionally, the NCAE demanded that public schools in North Carolina increase the number of school nurses, counselors, social workers and other support personnel and expand Medicaid to improve community health. NCAE also demanded that the state legislature set up a statewide school construction board to fix older schools and reduce large class sizes.\n\nRoy Cooper, a Democrat, and the Governor of North Carolina, urged local and state officials to stop attacking teachers and unite together to support teachers and schools in the state. Cooper tweeted an editorial of the Charlotte Observer.\n\nMembers from the North Carolina Republican Party sent out mass emails to constituents across the state explaining their support for public education and teachers. Joseph Kyzer, a spokesperson for House speaker Tom Moore stated that Republican leadership has continuously raised teachers salaries and that it was Democratic leadership in the state that stalled out spending. Teachers pointed out although salaries have increased, the increases have been modest and lagged far behind the national average, and that despite this, general education funding on supplies and per pupil spending have been continuously cut.\n\nA fellow Republican member, Mark Brody, who serves on the board of Union Day School in Waxhaw, N.C., called teachers protesting and the backers of the protest 'Union Thugs', that want to control the education process. Brody said he was speaking up because he did not want his local Union County schools or North Carolina schools in general to turn into Chicago. \"Let the Union thugs get their way now and we are half way there,\" he said. Brody would defend his statement, but emphasize that the \"thug\" remark was about trade unions, and not the teachers themselves.\n\nThe Raleigh-Durham chapter of the Industrial Workers of the World helped coordinate transportation for protestors who wished to rally with the teachers in Raleigh.\n\nSeveral North Carolina chapters of the Democratic Socialists of America stood in solidarity with the NCAE, and offered coordination for individuals wishing to join the protest.\n\n"}
{"id": "34357822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34357822", "title": "AP Physics", "text": "AP Physics\n\nIn the United States, Advanced Placement (AP) Physics collectively refers to the College Board Advanced Placement Program courses and exams covering various areas of physics. These are intended to be equivalent to university courses that use best practices of physics teaching pedagogy.\n\nEach AP Physics course culminates in an optional exam for which high-performing students may receive some credit towards their college coursework, depending on which college or university they attend.\n\nAP Physics B – discontinued in 2014 – was supposed to be equivalent to an introductory algebra-based college course in physics, with a laboratory component. The course was non-calculus-based, utilizing algebra and basic trigonometry to solve various physics problems. AP Physics B was divided into five different sections: Newtonian Mechanics, Fluid Mechanics and Thermal Physics, Electricity and Magnetism, Waves and Optics, and Atomic and Nuclear Physics.\n\nAP Physics B was replaced by AP Physics 1 and 2.\n\nAP Physics 1 and AP Physics 2 were introduced for the 2015 exam administration. The courses were designed to emphasize critical thinking and reasoning as well as learning through inquiry. They remain as algebra-based courses that do not require students to have taken calculus.\n\nAP Physics 1 covers the same Newtonian mechanics as AP Physics B plus rotational mechanics, as well as an introduction to electricity (Coulomb's Law and simple DC circuits), and mechanical waves and sound.\n\nAP Physics 2 covers the remaining subjects from AP Physics B: thermodynamics, fluid mechanics, optics, electricity and magnetism, and modern physics.\n\nThe College Board offers two courses in the AP Physics C suite, each equivalent to a semester-length calculus-based college course for majors in physical science or engineering:\n\n\n\nThe two AP Physics C courses can be combined to make a unified Physics C course that prepares for both exams.\n\n"}
{"id": "5944026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5944026", "title": "Accreditation Council for Business Schools and Programs", "text": "Accreditation Council for Business Schools and Programs\n\nThe Accreditation Council for Business Schools and Programs (ACBSP), formerly the Association of Collegiate Business Schools and Programs, is a U.S. organization offering accreditation services to business programs focused on teaching and learning.\n\nBased in Overland Park, Kansas (a suburb of Kansas City), ACBSP was created to fulfill a need for specialized accreditation by colleges and universities with business schools and programs.\n\nACBSP was founded in 1989 to accredit business schools with an emphasis on teaching and learning. At the time, only 260 out of 2,400 schools of business had specialized professional accreditation, all from the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB). Most or all of the AACSB accredited schools had an emphasis on research, while most other schools had an emphasis on teaching. On April 28, 1988, 150 of the non-accredited schools met in Kansas City, Missouri, to consider alternatives to AACSB accreditation for teaching-oriented schools.\n\nOn May 12, 1989, a study group completed a feasibility study and submitted recommendations for standard for accreditation by the ACBSP. In August 1992, ACBSP was recognized by the U.S. Department of Education as a specialized accreditation agency for business education. In June 1994, a U.S. Department of Education Advisory Committee recommended withdrawal of recognition for the ACBSP due to a determination that ACBSP accreditation would not be a \"required element\" in making an institution eligible to participate in U.S. federal government programs under the Higher Education Act or other authorities. However, at its meeting on January 22, 2001, the Council for Higher Education Accreditation (CHEA) Board of Directors granted recognition to the ACBSP. On September 19, 2011 The CHEA renewed its recognition of the ACBSP for a further 10 years.\n\nIn June 2010, the ACBSP changed its name from Association of Collegiate Business Schools and Programs to Accreditation Council for Business Schools and Programs. The ACBSP accredits mostly business schools with traditional campus locations, but also accredits online business programs as well.\n\nAs of August 2010, ACBSP reported having over 8,000 individual members and 828 member educational institutions, of which 529 had ACBSP accreditation and 220 had candidacy status. All but 134 member institutions are in the United States. In April 2013, ACBSP reported 1,171 member campuses, 183 of which are located outside of the U.S. Of those campuses, 586 have achieved accreditation and more than 500 are in candidacy for accreditation. Individual members on these campuses now exceed 10,000.\n\nACBSP holds membership and/or recognition in the following networks: \n\nThrough an agreement made in January 1992 between Delta Mu Delta and ACBSP, establishment of Delta Mu Delta chapters is now exclusively at colleges and universities with business programs which are accredited by ACBSP at the baccalaureate/graduate levels. Delta Mu Delta was founded in 1913 by the Dean from Harvard University and four professors from Yale University and New York University to recognize students in accredited business schools for their high academic achievement in baccalaureate, masters and doctorate programs. The ACBSP also recognizes the Kappa Beta Delta business honor society and the Sigma Beta Delta business honor society. Membership in the honor societies is also available to online students who are attending ACBSP accredited programs.\n\nIn 2006, Intel announced that it would no longer provide tuition reimbursement for employees to attend business schools with accreditation from ACBSP, accepting only AACSB accredited courses. At the same time the company imposed a similar restriction on reimbursements for engineering programs. The company explained that the policy change was intended to make the program more cost-effective to the company, noting that employees had been receiving reimbursement for programs \"that were not of the highest value to the company\" or left Intel after finishing programs that did not advance their careers there.\n"}
{"id": "38849957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38849957", "title": "American Teachers Association", "text": "American Teachers Association\n\nThe American Teachers Association was a professional association and teachers' union representing teachers in schools in the South for people of color during the period of legal racial segregation in United States. In 1954 the United States Supreme Court ruled in \"Brown v. Board of Education\" that segregation of public schools was unconstitutional. The Civil Rights Act of 1964 ended legal segregation.\n\nIn 1906, at a meeting of the Negro Young Peoples Christian and Educational Congress, the National Colored Teachers Association was formed. In 1907, to reflect that many white teachers also worked in colored schools, the name was changed to the National Association of Teachers in Colored Schools (NATCS). The members were dealing with segregated schools in the South, which had been established in law. Additional racial segregation and Jim Crow laws had been imposed by white-dominated legislatures in the late 19th century. In addition, blacks had been disfranchised since the turn of the 20th century by provisions of new constitutions and laws in the South. With blacks closed out of the political process, educators found that black public schools in the segregated states were historically underfunded, and their teachers were paid less than white teachers in white schools.\n\n1923 was a pivotal year for the organization. Mary McLeod Bethune became its first female president and it published its first edition of \"The Bulletin\", the official magazine. The magazine \"was a bridge between the members of the Association, and it served to inform the public and interpret NATCS to those who did not attend the annual meetings\".\n\nThe 1927 president was William J. Hale, the first president of Tennessee State University, a historically black university in Nashville, Tennessee.\n\nIn 1937, members changed the name to the American Teachers Association (ATA). The ATA worked jointly with the National Education Association (NEA) on issues related to African-American education.\n\nIn 1926, an informal NEA committee was appointed to study issues in colored schools. That began a period of cooperation between the two associations. Following the United States Supreme Court ruling in \"Brown v. Board of Education\" (1954) that segregated schools were unconstitutional, public schools were gradually integrated after massive resistance. The Civil Rights Act of 1964 prohibited legal segregation of public facilities.\n\nThe ATA and NEA began to consider a merger in the early 1960s, as a result of changes in education and the civil rights movement. In 1963, the ATA voted a \"qualified recommendation\" in favor of merger, which was completed in 1966. The name of the merged association remained the National Education Association.\n\nThe ATA did not support collective bargaining for its members. Instead, they sought to improve the status of education for African Americans in the South by:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1424273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1424273", "title": "Andrej Preston", "text": "Andrej Preston\n\nAndrej Preston (born c. 1986), also known under the pseudonym \"' (meaning \"little elephant\" in Slovene), is the founder of the former BitTorrent site Suprnova.org.\n\nThe Slovenian publication Mladina revealed in November 2004 that he was 18 years old and a student at the Waldorf High School in Ljubljana, Slovenia. After having shut down Suprnova.org in December 2004, he became the target of a police investigation in early 2005, and two computers of his were confiscated. In October 2005 the prosecutor announced that no charges would be filed and the computers were returned.\n\nAndrej Preston had given the domain suprnova.org to The Pirate Bay. The Pirate Bay had relaunched it as of August 21, 2007.\n\nOn August 25, 2007, he moved to San Francisco, California, where he is visiting Academy of Art University.\n\nThree years after donating the suprnova.org domain to The Pirate Bay, Preston retrieved it, in order to make a new website, which should become an online video portal.\n\n"}
{"id": "53352673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53352673", "title": "Assessment in higher education", "text": "Assessment in higher education\n\nAssessment is a systemic process in higher education that uses empirical data on student learning to refine programs and improve student learning. As a continuous process, assessment establishes measurable and clear student learning outcomes for learning, provisioning a sufficient amount of learning opportunities to achieve these outcomes, implementing a systematic way of gathering, analyzing and interpreting evidence to determine how well student learning matches expectations, and using the collected information to inform improvement in student learning. Assessment functions as part of a continuous process whereby the parts of the cycle are revised and monitored. The term “assessment” is defined broadly in that any outcome or goal in any activity or discipline can be a part of this process.\n\nAssessment in higher education can focus on the individual learner, a course, an academic program, or the institution.\n\n\nAssessment embedded at the course level (sometimes referred to as embedded assessment or authentic assessment) typically involves the use of assignments. Students receive feedback on their performance on assignments and faculty gain knowledge of student learning to use for grading. The work assessed within courses best relates to specific program-level student learning outcomes. Angelo and Cross believe assessment in the classroom is an important part of the faculty feedback loop which can provide meaningful information about their effectiveness as teachers while also giving students a measure of their progress as learners.\n\nProgram assessment is a best practice in higher education. The process involves a framework for placing priority and attention on the process of student learning and most specifically, the program objectives, organization of curriculum, pedagogy and student development. Like course assessment, program assessment requires defining a statement of mission/goals, establishment of program-specific student learning outcomes and the identification of where learning takes place or “learning opportunities”. The next part in program assessment involves the development of a research question or intended goal for assessment. What questions does the program seek to answer? And what direct or indirect evidence needs to be collected to identify answers? The collected data is evaluated, analyzed and interpreted resulting in the implementation of an action plan resulting in improvement in the program and student learning.\n\nEach course a student takes occurs within the context of a program, which occurs within the context of overarching university outcomes. With the assumption that coursework should support the program and programs should support the overall mission of the university, alignment of mission (and learning outcomes) should occur. Assessment at the course level typically takes the form of tests, quizzes, and assignments. When courses are mapped to program outcomes, this permits the aggregation of data from several courses covering the same outcome which can be used for program assessment. Additional program assessment can take the form of embedded assignments, field experiences, capstone experiences, portfolios, or tests of majors.\n\nRubrics are often used to assess student work. Essentially, a rubric is a scoring guide grid consisting of a scale of some sort (i.e., levels of performance), the dimensions or important components of an assignment, and descriptions of what constitutes each level of performance for each assignment dimension. Rubrics can be particularly effective for assessment due to how closely they are tied with the teaching and learning process - they can be used for grading, as well as giving students feedback on their performance.\n\nAssessment is most effective when it occurs at multiple points in time along the student's path. Multiple measures over time provide a way to triangulate data and increase confidence in the results.\n\nIn order to assess student learning, students must given assignment where they can demonstrate what they know and can do.\n\nA distinction is made between direct and indirect measures of learning. Direct measures, as their name implies, involve directly examining student work products to assess the achievement of learning outcomes. These work products occur in a variety of formats including objective tests, and rubric-scored projects, performances, and written work. A recent survey of provosts indicates that classroom based assessment and rubrics are most frequently used. Large scale commercial tests such as the College Learning Assessment (CLA) are used by fewer than 50% use standardized tests according to the survey. Indirect measures focus on data from which one can make inferences about learning. Indirect measures can include surveys on student and faculty perceptions about learning, focus groups, and exit interviews. National surveys such as the National Survey of Student Engagement (NSSE) have become increasing popular indirect measures, with roughly 85% of institutions using these measures according to a recent survey.\n\nIn a classroom setting or in a program level assessment, it is often possible to assess the entire population of interest, referred to as a census. However, it is sometimes impractical or ineffective to assess an entire population, due to the time and effort involved as well as survey fatigue if the same group of students are being asked to take multiple surveys. Therefore, sampling strategies can be used to pick a subset of the population of interest. The goal of sampling is to select a smaller group that represents the population on key characteristics. Multiple sampling approaches are commonly used in higher education assessment, including random and stratified sampling. In a random sample, each individual is equally likely to be selected. In a stratified sample, individuals are grouped based on specific characteristics of interest and then randomly selected from each group to ensure adequate numbers of each group.\n\nAssessment data are only effective in \"closing the loop\" and improving programs if they are shared and communicated widely.\n\nBenchmarking is a way for an institution or program to determine how a sample measures up to others or to themselves at an earlier time.\n\nThere are numerous regional organizations dedicated to discussing issues and policies related to assessment in higher education. The Association for the Assessment of Learning in Higher Education (AALHE) is one international organization. Seven other regional assessment organizations exist in the United States.\n\nIn an interview with the Chronicle for Higher Education, Marsha Watson, former director of the AALHE, stated that the “rising demands for accountability mean that assessment must evolve into its own discipline.\"\n\nThe National Institute for Learning Outcomes Assessment is another organization dedicated to helping institutions use assessment data to improve academic quality. They have delivered a number of research papers on assessment practices.\n\nThere is heightened political and public pressure on higher education institutions to explain what they are trying to do and provide evidence they are actually doing it. Faculty want students to learn. In addition, faculty love their disciplines and want to share their knowledge and enthusiasm with students. Placing emphasis on what students learn and what students do helps to effectively drive improvement in the learning process, program planning and overall institutional improvement. Assessment adds transparency to the teaching and learning process, helps to provide some evidence to the effectiveness of student learning and promotes an environment where continuous improvement is well understood and ingrained in the institutional culture.\n\nLinda Suskie, a higher education consultant, says that \"Good assessments are not once-and-done affairs. They are part of an ongoing, organized, and systematized effort to understand and improve teaching and learning.”\n\nSome university faculty and researchers have criticized student learning outcomes assessment in higher education. Robert Shireman, a senior fellow for the Century Foundation, argued that accrediting agencies often require institutions to reduce learning to meaningless blurbs, or student learning outcomes, which “prevents rather than leads to the type of quality assurance that has student work at the center.” Erik Gilbert, a professor of History, wrote another notable essay criticizing assessment in higher education arguing that it has little effect on educational quality and that accrediting agencies require institutions to invest time and resources in collecting evidence on student learning even though, he believes, that it does not improve academic quality. Molly Worthen also criticized assessment for its seeming lack of empirical evidence indicating it improves student learning. However, Matthew Fuller and others have developed the Surveys of Assessment Culture, aimed at examining the foundations of institutional cultures of assessment through empirical studies.\n"}
{"id": "48446867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48446867", "title": "Assistive Technology for Deaf and Hard of Hearing", "text": "Assistive Technology for Deaf and Hard of Hearing\n\nAssistive Technology for the Deaf and Hard of Hearing is special technology made to assist them including Hearing aids, Video relay services, tactile devices, alerting devices and technology for supporting communication.\n\nTechnology has advanced to an unbelievable point. Those who are Deaf or Hard of Hearing often experience several limitations in accessing technology in their everyday life. The deaf or hard of hearing community has a difficult time to communicate and perceive information as compared to hearing individuals. Thus, these individuals often rely on visual and tactile mediums for receiving and communicating information. The use of assistive technology and devices provides this community with various solutions to their problems by providing higher sound (for those who are hard of hearing), tactile feedback, visual cues and improved technology access. Individuals who are deaf or hard of hearing utilize a variety of assistive technologies that provide them with improved accessibility to information in numerous environments. Most devices either provide amplified sound or alternate ways to access information through vision and/or vibration. These technologies can be grouped into three general categories: Hearing Technology, alerting devices, and communication support.\n\nHearing Technology can broadly be defined as any device utilized for improving the level of sound available to a listener. Hearing technology can further be divided into two general subcategories of Assistive Listening Devices or Personal Amplification.\n\nAssistive Listening Devices (ALD) can be utilized by individuals or large groups of people and can typically be accessed without the support of specific personnel. These devices typically are used to improve the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) in any given situation. All ALDs utilize a transmitter that sends a person’s voice or other sound source to a receiver that distributes the sound evenly throughout a room such as in theaters and churches or directly to an individual. Sound is transmitted in four primary ways:\n\nWith Frequency Modulation (FM) systems, the sound is transmitted on a specific frequency or channel similar to a radio. The Federal Federal Communications Commission (FCC) has designated specific frequencies for these types of systems. There are now small receivers than can be connected directly to a person’s hearing aids through Direct Audio Input (DAI). Any time an FM system is coupled to a hearing aid, special settings and connections are required from an audiologist. Sometimes when several FM based systems are used in the same building, there can be problems with cross over between rooms and channels.\n\nThese systems utilize light waves to transmit sound from the transmitter to a special light sensitive receiver. The signal can be broadcast to a whole room through speakers or a person who wears an individual receiver. There must be a clear line of connection between the transmitter and receiver so that the light signal is not interrupted. The benefit of infrared systems is that they only work in the room where the transmitter and receiver are located resulting in significantly fewer issues with cross-over. These systems can be sensitive to external light sources or interfering objects.\n\nInduction loop systems utilize electromagnetic energy to transmit the signal. These systems can cover a small area with a loop placed under a rug or may be permanently installed within the walls or ceiling of larger areas like theaters, auditoriums, or churches.\n\nPersonal amplification is chosen specific to the needs of an individual based on their level of hearing and requires the support of an audiologist to determine candidacy for different devices and appropriately fit and adjust the chosen device.\n\nHearing aid is an electroacoustic device which is designed to amplify sound for the wearer, usually with the aim of making speech more intelligible, and to correct impaired hearing as measured by audiometry.\n\nSome technologies also worth noting are Cochlear implants and Bone Anchored Hearing Aid (BAHA). While these are not classified as assistive technology by law , they still work similar as hearing aids.\n\nFollowing are some technologies employed by deaf and hard of hearing individuals for communication purposes.\n\nTelecommunication Device for the Deaf (TDD), previously known as teletype machine (TTY), allows the user to place phone calls using text through a regular phone line. Each TDD has a keyboard with a text screen. A user either needs to connect with another person that has a TDD or use a relay service that can convert the text into voice for the hearing listener receiving the call. With the improvements in technology for phones, pagers, text devices and computer services, the use of the TDD has declined.\n\nThe Voice Carry Over Telephone (VCO) is used by those people who are unable to hear over the telephone but prefer to use their voice to communicate. VCO telephone calls must be made through a relay service. This connection allows the person with the hearing loss to speak to the other party and read their incoming message on the telephone’s display screen. There is also a portable VCO device, which can be attached to cell phones, pay phones, or cordless phones.\n\nSimilar to Voice Carry Over Telephone (VCO), The Internet Protocol (IP) Relay Service is used by Deaf or Hard of Hearing people can use the phone, but sometimes they cannot hear and don’t understand voices on the phone. IP relay is accessible through the internet and allows the person to communicate by text. When an user calls someone, there is a third party person, called a communication assistant (CA), who will receive the user’s call and the IP relay will go from the caller’s computer to the other person’s phone. The communication assistant will type to the deaf/hard of hearing person, who will in turn respond, and then the communication assistant will pass along the information to the person on the other end of the line.\n\nVideo relay service (VRS) or Video remote interpreting (VRI) is a type of video telecommunication service, which use communication devices such as webcams or videophones to provide sign-language and/or spoken language interpretation services. In many cases, getting an interpreter may take some time and they may not be immediately available. The VRI will provide an interpreter on the spot. The VRI has two parties, the deaf/hard of hearing person who is using the VRI, and the interpreter who is on the screen. The interpreter can be on a videophone, web camera, or computer screen. The interpreter will use the audio, while someone speaks and the person will interpret to the deaf person by sign language, and then if the deaf/hard of hearing wants to say something they will sign to the interpreter and the interpreter will use his/her voice to relay that message.\n\nReal-time text (RTT) is transmitting text which the reader can automatically read even before the sender finishes the sentence. The Deaf community uses this as one of the ways to communicate. RTT allows the other person (receiver) to read the message immediately, without waiting for the message to be written. The idea is similar to the idea which a hearing person talks on the phone. They will talk continuously without any pauses and interruptions. The Deaf community uses RTT to have a continuous conversation.\n\nTDD devices, sometimes called TTY devices, are commonly used for RTT via a regular phone call. Text over IP (ToIP) is a type of RTT that uses IP networks natively.\n\nReal time captioning provides a typewritten account of all verbal information presented within a lecture, meeting, discussion or presentation. All of these systems require the skills of a trained captionist and specialized software or equipment such as a computer. They typically vary based on the amount of information represented within the visual display of information ranging from summaries to word for word transcription.\n\nAlso called open captioning, or real-time stenography, or simply real-time captioning, Communication Access Real Time Captioning (CART) is the general name of the system that court reporters, closed captioners and voice writers, and others use to convert speech to text. A trained operator uses keyboard or stenography methods to transcribe spoken speech into written text. Speech to text software is used when voice writers provide CART.\n\nC-Print is a speech-to-text (captioning) technology and service developed at the National Technical Institute for the Deaf, a college of Rochester Institute of Technology. The system is successfully being used to provide communication access to individuals who are deaf or hard of hearing in many programs around the country. In addition to educational environments, C-Print also can be used in business and community settings, and with individuals with other disabilities, such as those with a visual impairment or a learning disability.\n\nRather than having a captionist physically present, the user can listen in using a phone, cell phone, or computer microphone which allows the captionist to transmit the text back to the consumer using a modem, internet or some other data connection.\n\nVideo captions make video content more accessible to all audiences. The 21st Century Communications & Video Accessibility Act (CVAA), passed in 2010, legally requires content delivered by broadband, digital and mobile technology to be accessible to those with disabilities. The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) enforces compliance of the CVAA and clarifies the law when necessary.\n"}
{"id": "20683008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20683008", "title": "Bachelor of Social Services", "text": "Bachelor of Social Services\n\nBachelor of Social Services (called \"socionom\" in Swedish and Danish, \"sosionom\" in Norwegian, and \"sosionomi\" in Finnish) is a degree in social welfare from Scandinavian universities. At the core it is based on the competences needed to work in social services. Courses in sociology, human rights, gerontology, community services, psychology, social security and entrepreneurship are part of the degree. Service orientation and client work is seen through a social pedagogical framework. The studies take 3 to 5 years. Degree holders are usually hired for services in Scandinavian welfare systems. NGO oriented services take place with families and people of all ages in areas such as: child protection, early childhood education, community work, substance abuse prevention or promotion of mental health. Students with a BSW can pursue an advanced standing track for master's in social work programs.\n\nIn Sweden, the training was originally given in social work than in social services, training's were given in specialized social work colleges (\"socialhögskola\"), which were integrated into the regular Swedish university system in 1977, through department of social work at an existing university or university college.\n\nBachelors of Social Services graduates find jobs in a wide range of roles in the social services. Some may be in the public, private or the third sector.\n\n"}
{"id": "3960453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3960453", "title": "Biscuit Fire publication controversy", "text": "Biscuit Fire publication controversy\n\nThe Biscuit Fire publication controversy was an academic and political controversy in the United States in January 2006 about publication of an academic paper titled \"Post-wildfire logging hinders regeneration and increases fire risk\". The U.S Forest Service and a group of professors, including six at the Oregon State University College of Forestry, wrote a letter to the prestigious scientific journal \"Science\" requesting that publication of a short forestry paper written by an OSU Forestry graduate student and others be delayed until the authors could respond to it, arguing the article was \"short on qualifiers and context\". The group requested alternatively that \"Science\" publish a sidebar illustrating their concerns alongside the paper. \"Science\" refused, and the paper, which had already undergone peer review and been approved for publication, appeared in the January 20, 2006 issue. The paper had been published in the online edition of \"Science\" before the letter was written.\n\nThe paper, written by graduate student Dan Donato and several colleagues, concerned the effects of logging in the aftermath of the 2002 Biscuit Fire, a massive wildfire which burned nearly a half million acres (2,000 km²) in southwestern Oregon. Some forestry scientists, and the Bush administration, proposed that salvage logging—removal of dead trees, many still usable as timber, after a fire—was necessary for fire safety and forest regeneration. Donato \"et al.\"'s research provided some evidence contradicting this view. They compared sections of the burn which were burned severely and then salvage-logged to sections which had only been burned. They found the unlogged portions had significantly more conifer seedlings than were found in the logged portions. The paper suggested that soil disturbance and materials left over from the logging process may have disturbed the growth of seedlings. The paper also reported elevated surface fuels in the logged sites, which they concluded elevated the risk of future fire.\n\nThe incident and its aftermath had significant repercussions in the forestry community, and highlighted the political obstacles surrounding much of forestry science and research. When the letter first came to light the College of Forestry was subjected to heavy criticism from both within and outside for what many perceived as an unwarranted attack on academic freedom. Accusations of politically motivated bias were made by both sides, and critics of the incident noted that the College received 10% of its funding from a tax on logging, and that many professors had ties with the Forest Service and the logging industry. Defenders of the college noted that the vast majority of research in the college was funded by competitive grants, and that collaboration with government agencies and relevant industries is common across the sciences. Hal Salwasser, the dean of the College of Forestry, eventually survived a vote of confidence, apologized for his part in the controversy (but not for calling environmentalists \"goons\" ), and reaffirmed OSU's support for academic freedom.\n\nThe letter's primary author, OSU forestry engineering professor John Sessions, claimed that the paper's publication constituted a failure of the peer review process, and that he would appeal the matter to the board of \"Science\". \"Science\" editor-in-chief Donald Kennedy said in a letter to \"The Oregonian\" that it \"would be foolish to argue that no consideration of the political extensions of this finding could have entered the decision\" regarding publication; however, he believes that the paper would have \"made it (to publication) on its own\".\n\nThe August 4, 2006 issue of \"Science\" contained comments by the OSU professors, congressman Brian Baird, and a response from Donato and his colleagues. \nEvergreen Magazine subsequently dedicated an entire issue to a discussion of the controversy.\n\nIn the following year two new papers partially substantiated Donato's findings. Natural conifer regeneration following severe fires in the Siskiyou Klamath region was common, and stocking standards were always exceeded without planting, although natural regenerated conifers grew slower than planted conifers. Thompson and others found that the Biscuit Fire severity was higher in areas that had been burned and salvaged fifteen years earlier (1987) than it was in comparable areas that were burned in 1987 but left unmanaged.\n\n"}
{"id": "25009854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25009854", "title": "Carnage UK", "text": "Carnage UK\n\nCarnage UK is a company that organises drinking events for students in the United Kingdom. The idea for Carnage UK was originally taken from a University of Birmingham event 'Carnage' run by the University's raising-and-giving society Carnival Rag. The original Carnage has since been rebranded to 'Karma', with all proceeds going to charity.\n\nThey arrange events for an estimated 350,000 undergraduate students in 45 towns and cities each year. The company charges students £10 for which they receive a t-shirt and free entry to around 10 pubs, bars and nightclubs. Many of the venues offer drinks promotions during the events. It is \"owned\" by Varsity Leisure Group.\n\nIn 2008 a student at the University of Bath hanged himself behind a nightclub during an event organised by Carnage UK.\n\nIn October 2009, A Sports Technology student at Sheffield Hallam University, was photographed urinating on a war memorial in Barker's Pool after drinking for several hours on a bar crawl organised by Carnage UK. The photograph was later published in a number of newspapers. The student pleaded guilty to outraging public decency. The judge in the case said that he felt the student's actions were directly caused by his heavy consumption of alcohol and that Carnage UK should also have been present in court. Responding to this criticism a press officer for Carnage UK told \"PR Week\" that much of the press coverage over the incident had been unfair. He pointed out that more than 2000 students attended the event and that the student who urinated was responsible for his own actions.\n\nAfter an event in Exeter in October 2009 it was reported that the police are to consider charging the company for the extra police officers that must be deployed whilst their events are run.\n\nIn March 2009, a 61-year-old man was assaulted by one of its organisers after he asked about arrangements regarding to the event.\n\nIn October 2010, another heavily intoxicated student, this time from the Southampton University, was photographed urinating on a war memorial.\n\nIn June 2014, the Daily Mail reported that a group of drunken women emerged from a Carnage pub in Cardiff and commenced verbally abusing, and physically assaulting, a homeless man, initially profanely yelling at him to get a job, then dragging him across the pavement and street, punching him, pulling his trousers down and kicking his face.\n\nThe National Union of Students has launched a campaign to stop the organisation hosting more events and according to a poll by \"The Observer\" at least 17 student unions have banned them from advertising on their premises.\n\nThe founder of Varsity Leisure Group, 29-year-old Inderpaul Sandeep Singh Bahia has denied that the company encourages binge drinking saying, \"Our events are heavily focused on group identity, social and ethical cohesion, and fancy dress themes.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "51010024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51010024", "title": "Character Day", "text": "Character Day\n\nCharacter Day is a global initiative — a unified day of film and discussion showcasing the science behind character development. Millions of people of all ages in schools, classrooms, companies, homes around the world engage in conversation and action around character strengths like empathy, grit, gratitude, creativity, and leadership. In 2018, there were over 200,000 Character Day events around the world.\n\nCharacter Day was co-created in 2014 by Tiffany Shlain, co-founder of the non-profit Let it Ripple, founder of the Webby Awards, and co-founder of the International Academy of Digital Arts and Sciences along with Sawyer Steele, co-founder of Let it Ripple.. The first Character Day in 2014 also marked the global premiere of the short film \"The Science of Character\", which explores the social science and neuroscience behind character development. Shlain and Let it Ripple produced Character Day and invited schools and organizations around the world to premiere the film and discuss its ideas about character development all on the same day via a simultaneous online video conversation. There were over 1500 events in 31 countries on March 14, 2014. The State Department’s Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs also selected \"The Science of Character\" to be part of their American Film Program.\n\nOn September 8, 2015, Character Day became an annual event. For the second event, Shlain and Let it Ripple premiered Shlain’s film \"The Adaptable Mind\", which explores skills needed in the 21st Century as well as \"The Making of a Mensch,\" which uses a modern-day interpretation of the Jewish teachings of Musar literature as it pertains to character development. The second Character Day had over 6700 events in 41 countries. In addition, the US State Department selected \"The Adaptable Mind\" to be part of their 2016-2017 American Film Showcase.\n\nCharacter Day 2016 was held on September 22, 2016. There were 93,000 events in 125 countries. Character Day 2017, on September 13, 2017, had 133,000 events in 150 countries while premiering Let it Ripple’s film, \"30,000 Days\". Character Day 2018 on September 26, 2018, had over 210,000 events worldwide. Character Day speakers have included Martin Seligman, Angela Duckworth, Ken Robinson, Krista Tippett and Moby.\n\nIn 2014, over 1500 schools and organizations watched \"The Science of Character\" in 31 countries with people joining the conversation online from over 120 countries. Experts in character education from Harvard, Yale, University of California Berkeley, and others led a virtual global Q&A. The US State Department had screenings in Washington DC and embassies around the world including Egypt and Vietnam, among others. Volunteers translated the film into 14 languages including Arabic, Bulgarian, Chinese, French, German, Hindi, Japanese, Norwegian, Persian, Romanian, Russian, Serbian, Spanish and Swahili.\n\nIn 2015, Character Day screened the film \"The Adaptable Mind\" for 6,784 schools, classrooms, workplaces and organizations. Events took place in 41 countries on all inhabited continents except Antarctica. People from 125 countries participated in the online discussion.\n\n"}
{"id": "6124187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6124187", "title": "Classical Tripos", "text": "Classical Tripos\n\nThe Classical Tripos is the taught course in classics at the Faculty of Classics, University of Cambridge. It is equivalent to Literae Humaniores at Oxford. It is traditionally a three-year degree, but for those who have not studied Latin and Greek at school a four-year course has been introduced. It is not essential to have a Greek A-Level to study for the three year degree as intensive Greek teaching is available, but most students will have a Latin A-Level.\n\nClassics at Cambridge consists of Language (Greek and Latin), Classical Literature, Ancient History, Classical Art and Archaeology, Classical Philosophy, and Linguistics.\n\nTaken by those doing the four-year course, this is an introduction to Latin, with Greek being taken up in Part IA.\n\nDuring the first year, undergraduates take subjects to gain a general idea of the ancient world and to discover which area is most appealing to them. Much of the work is language based: Written texts are a major source of evidence for classical antiquity and so there is an emphasis in Part I on developing fluent, accurate reading skills in both Greek and Latin.\n\nAlthough roughly three-quarters of the course is taken up with developing language skills, both centred on the set texts and in unseen translation, students are also expected to study literature, philosophy, history, linguistics and philology, and art and archaeology.\n\nThere is a wider choice in the second year and undergraduates narrow down their field of study. Whilst they have to study Language and Literature, the choice of Literature is wider, and they choose two out of History, Art and Archaeology, Philosophy and Linguistics.\n\nPart II gives the widest choice. It is possible to completely focus on one subject, or to choose a broad range of subjects. Candidates take four papers, although one of these papers may be substituted by a 10,000 word Thesis.\n\nThe classical tripos was created in 1822 for students who had high honours in mathematics or those who were the sons of peers. This restriction ended around 1850.\n\nWomen were first allowed to sit the examination at the end of the nineteenth century.\n\nAgnata Butler, a student at Girton College, was the only candidate in 1887 to be placed in the top division of the first class in Classical Tripos examinations – thereby being placed above all of the men in her year. It was marked with a cartoon in \"Punch\" which was entitled 'Honour to Agnata Frances Ramsay' and showed her boarding a train's first-class compartment marked 'For Ladies Only'.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4338765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4338765", "title": "Clinic (music)", "text": "Clinic (music)\n\nA musical clinic is an informal meeting with a guest musician, where a small-to-medium-sized audience questions the musician's styles and techniques and also how to improve their own skill. The musician might perform an entire piece, or demonstrate certain techniques for the audience to observe. \n\nThe objective is for the audience to learn from the guest musician. A musical clinic can apply to any type of musical instrument, music or player. The clinics are often held at a musical instrument stores.\n\n"}
{"id": "43513556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43513556", "title": "Cultural &amp; Museum Centre Karonga", "text": "Cultural &amp; Museum Centre Karonga\n\nThe Cultural & Museum Centre Karonga (CMCK), commonly called Karonga Museum, is a cultural centre and museum in Karonga District, northern Malawi.\n\nThe Karonga Museum was officially opened by then President Bingu wa Mutharika in November 2004\n\nThe Centre's mission is to preserve and promote Karonga's natural and cultural heritage. The fossil discoveries of Dinosaurs & Early humans & pre-historic remains displayed at the museum provide insights into human origins and the history of life on earth.\n\nThe collection, preservation and display of the artefacts is undertaken by the Department of Antiquities, under the Department of Culture, in the Ministry of Information, Tourism, and Culture in conjunction with the Uraha Foundation. The emphasis of the Cultural Exhibition component is on community participation, local traditional and community leaders were urged to assist in assembling the different collections for exhibition.\n\nThe Museum has a central exhibition which is dominated by the 130-million-year-old fossil of the Malawisaurus, which was discovered 45 km south from the centre site.\nThe Centre has a cultural activity area which provides a meeting place for the people of Karonga and their visitors. Still under construction, the building is a site for all sorts of cultural events such as drama, dance performances, music and choir events.\n\nIts display & panorama area features 240 million years of Karonga history - from dinosaurs to democracy, including prehistoric landscapes, animals & early humans and their way of life, archaeological records, history of slave trade, colonial times, Malawi under Dr. Banda, culture and traditions of Karonga people.\n\nThe Center for Field Research co-operates in international projects. With its unique concept the Karonga Cultural & Museum Center is a key factor for promoting appreciation of Malawi's Cultural & Natural heritage by educational development and research.\n\nThe building that houses the Cultural Centre and the Museum was constructed in 2004 for K30 million (US$276,000) was inspired by the excavated bones of the Malawisaurus that is the feature at the museum. During 2014, weather damage threatened the collection of fossils and other artefacts held at the Centre. An appeal for K30million (US$ ) was made in order to repair the Onduline roof.\n\nThe building was designed by British Architect Kevin M Davies (BA(Hons) Dip Arch (Comm) RIBA ARB MIA\nDirector & Chartered Architect), and is one of his most cherished projects.\n\n"}
{"id": "3313106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3313106", "title": "Czech University of Life Sciences Prague", "text": "Czech University of Life Sciences Prague\n\nCzech University of Life Sciences Prague (CULS; (), ČZU; also Czech University of Agriculture in Prague) is a university of agricultural education and research in Prague, the Czech Republic, established in 1906.\n\nStudies of agriculture were established at the Czech Technical University (ČVUT) in 1906, and the first agricultural engineers graduated in 1911. In 1920 the Faculty of Agriculture and Forestry was established, and in 1952 the faculty became an independent institution, University College of Agriculture in Prague (; VŠZ). In 1966 it moved to a newly built campus in Prague-Suchdol, where it has been located since.\n\nThe Faculty of Forestry, established in 1952, was part of ČVUT until 1959, then a part of the agricultural university until 1964, when it became the independent Institute of Forestry Science (). It has been a part of ČZU since 1990.\n\nThe university adopted its current name in 1995.\n\nDuring communist rule in Czechoslovakia, the university was lavishly funded as part of state support of collectivised agriculture.\n\nFrom 1952 to 1980 the Masters degree offered by the university lasted five years. It then switched to a four-year course from 1980–90, before switching back to five years. Since 1993 three-year bachelor study has also been available.\n\nThe university offers bachelors' programmes and Master's programmes (based on credit system) and doctoral programmes.\n\nThe university offer now includes a total of 40 programmes taught in English, approximately 15 of which are in the bachelor level and 25 in the master’s level of studies.\n\nThe Secretary of the Interfaculty Committee Agraria is located at CULS. In 2005 the Czech University of Life Sciences (CULS) became a member of the Euroleague for Life Sciences (ELLS), and it is also a member of the Biofector project.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47120039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47120039", "title": "Department of Geography, University of Kentucky", "text": "Department of Geography, University of Kentucky\n\nThe Department of Geography in the College of Arts & Sciences at the University of Kentucky offers undergraduate degrees and graduate degrees and courses in physical and human geography. The department has an international reputation for the study of social theory and critical geography, including political ecology. Located in Lexington, Kentucky, the department is consistently ranked among leading geography graduate programs in the United States. The graduate students have organized the annual international conference, Dimensions of Political Ecology or DOPE, since 2010. In the summer of 2012, the department and faculty offices moved to the eighth floor of Patterson Office Tower.\n\nSince 1973, the department has named a scholar the Ellen Churchill Semple Day Speaker. This internationally renowned individual delivers an afternoon address and evening remarks at an awards ceremony. Past Semple Speakers have included David Harvey, Anne Buttimer, Peirce F. Lewis, Harm de Blij, Eric Sheppard, Jamie Peck, Lynn Staeheli, Trevor J. Barnes, and Sarah Whatmore.\n\nIn the 1920s and 1930s, few universities in the American South employed geographers. While there was evidence of interest in geography both in and outside the University of Kentucky, educators deplored the meager offerings and the ineffective teaching of geography in the state's secondary schools. Indeed, there were preparatory courses in geography in the course catalog of the University of Kentucky at the founding of the institution; the earliest course on record being \"Ancient and Modern Geography\" in 1865. Educators were pleading for more effective geographic instruction and the business world was demanding a content of more practical value. Among the prominent American geographers, Ellen Churchill Semple, a native of Louisville, Kentucky, informally encouraged Frank L. McVey, President of the University of Kentucky, to establish a geography program, when in 1920 she donated to the university the Cullum Geographical Medal (awarded to her in 1914 by the American Geographical Society). The need for a separate geography program was clearly demonstrated during the next two decades, but it was the decision of the recently appointed president, Herman Lee Donovan, to recommend the establishment of a Geography Department within the College of Arts and Sciences early in the summer of 1944.\n\nUK Geography would begin active work at the opening of the fall semester in September 1944. Since 1923, well before the establishment of the department, courses titled Physiography, Elements of Geography, Economic Geography, Conservation of Natural Resources, Land Problems, Geography of North America, and Geographic Basis of American History had been offered in departments of Geology, Economics, History, and Agriculture. These geography courses were transferred to the new department and additional course offerings in geography were approved for undergraduate and master's degree programs. Joseph R. Schwendeman, who earned a PhD from Clark University in 1941, was appointed head of the new department.\n\nWith J. R. Schwendeman as head, and three assistant professors, Harry K. Hutter and Guy N. Parmenter (also from Clark) and Thomas P. Field (from UNC-Chapel Hill) and an associate professor, Richard L. Tuthill (Columbia University), the new department had five full-time faculty and an enrollment of 354 students from 1944 to 1945. In 1952, James Shear (Clark) and Daniel Jacobson (LSU) joined the department to teach climatology and cultural geography. The department, along with anthropology and sociology, established an interdisciplinary general education course for first year students attending the university after World War II entitled Societies Around the World. This two-semester program was taught by members of the three departments for most of the next two decades. Three societies were studied each semester. The first course examined the Eskimo, the Navajo, and Buganda in East Africa; the second analyzed three other areas: China, the Cotton South (in the U.S.), and the British Midlands. Thousands of students were enrolled in these courses to satisfy lower level requirements. It was a bold academic enterprise in multidisciplinary and cross-disciplinary studies led by the geography department. With the support of the Sears Roebuck Foundation, the department also maintained a summer field studies program at this time in Monterrey, Mexico.\nIn the mid-1960s the department added new faculty to replace those who accepted positions elsewhere. William Withington (Northwestern University) joined to teach economic geography and North America; P. P. Karan (Indiana University) to teach Asia and physical geography; and Forrest McElhoe (Ohio State University) to teach regional and human geography. Faculty members were also involved in various international activities. James Shear spent 1957 to 1959 in Antarctica as part of the International Geophysical Year program; P.P. Karan spent 1957 to 1958 in Nepal as an assistant on the United Nations team that developed the first Five Year Plan for the country, and in 1964 to 1966 as leader of the Geographical Expedition to Bhutan Himalaya project supported by the National Geographic Society.\nBetween 1950 and 1960 the department averaged about 70 majors each year. There were twenty-one master's degrees awarded and 2,841 students were enrolled in geography courses from 1966 to 1967. Three of these earned a PhD in geography: Paul Cooper at University of Georgia; Sanford Bederman at University of Minnesota, and Richard Silvernail at University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. The first MA was granted in 1948 to Wilton Tucker, who taught at a college in Lake Worth, FL. The department's influence was strongest on education throughout Kentucky and in neighboring states. Kentucky MA degree students were employed at Eastern Kentucky University, East Tennessee State University, Marshall University, Morehead State University, Appalachian State University, Minnesota, Southeastern Louisiana, Austin Peay, Western Carolina University, and as high school teachers, climatologists, and city planners in various places throughout the South. In 1967, Schwendeman received the Meritorious Achievement award from the Association of American Geographers, the AAG's highest honor. That summer, he retired after serving as head of department for twenty-three years.\n\nThere have been seven chairs of the department since Schwendeman's term as Head (a designation no longer used at the university),\n\nThe first doctorates were awarded in 1972 to Thomas P. Grimes and Robert Daniel Joseph. The first PhDs awarded to women were Janice Averitt (1975), Helen Parson (1976), who taught at Wilfrid Laurier University, Macel Marteva Wheeler (1977), who taught at Northern Kentucky University, and Wilma Walker (1977) who taught at Eastern Kentucky University.\n\nFollowing a national search, Karan was named as chair in 1967. In 1967, the old Social Sciences Building which housed the department (on the site of the present Fine Arts Library) was gutted by fire. The department moved to temporary quarters in Breckinridge Hall for two years (1967 to 1969). In the fall of 1969, the department moved to the fourteenth floor of Patterson Office Tower. A doctoral program was established in 1968 and the faculty size increased from four (Field, Karan, Withington, and McElhoe), to twelve by the mid 1970s: Dietrich Zimmer (Heidelberg), Donald Blome (Iowa), Paul Cooper (Georgia), Melvin Albaum (Ohio State), Gary Fowler (Syracuse), Roger McCoy (Kansas), Philip Phillips (Minnesota), Geoffrey Wall (Hull), Karl Raitz (Minnesota), Richard Jones (Ohio State), Ronald Garst (Michigan State), Richard Ulack (Penn State). Wilford Bladen (Kentucky) joined the department in 1973 to strengthen the program on Kentucky geography. In subsequent years, some of the departing faculty were replaced by new appointments, including Richard Towber (Washington) and Allan Fitzsimmons (UCLA).\n\nIn 1975 Karl Raitz was named chair. Student enrollment in the program approached 2500 students each semester in the 1970s. Between 1967 and 1980, the department awarded 53 MA and 23 PhD degrees. Graduates of the department were employed at universities in Wisconsin, Minnesota, Kansas, Ohio, Taiwan, Saudi Arabia, Jordan, and Canada in addition to colleges and universities in Kentucky. Others held positions in state and city planning boards, in the U.S. government, and in civil service programs. Departmental interest in overseas areas grew rapidly during this period. The faculty conducted research in the Philippines, Indonesia, Sumatra, Western Australia, and the Himalaya and Japan with support from various funding agencies. This period also marked increased interest in the department's immediate surroundings with the publication of the first comprehensive \"Atlas of Kentucky\" (1976), an effort that involved the entire faculty.\n\nTo improve its standing on campus and in the state, the department received permission to hire two mid-level faculty members with established research records. In 1977 the department hired Tom Leinbach (Penn State) and Gary Shannon (Michigan) who moved to Lexington, from the University of Vermont and the University of Florida respectively. At the same time, several recent PhDs were added to the program; they included Robert Cromley (Ohio State), Justin Friberg (Syracuse), Hank Bullamore (Iowa), and Jim Hufferd (Minnesota). The department was authorized to conduct a national search for a new chair, and Stan Brunn (Ohio State) was appointed chair, moving from Michigan State University in 1980.\n\nDuring the next several years, the department experienced growth in a number of areas, including bringing in new faculty members. Some came on tenure lines, others as temporary, especially during tight budget times, and still others replacing those who moved elsewhere. The temporary faculty played important roles in the department's instruction, research and service missions. They included Percy Dougherty (Boston), George Hepner (Arizona State), Susan Macey (Illinois), Susan Trussler-Black (Penn State), and Jacqueline Pryce-Harvey (Tennessee). Lizbeth Pyle (Minnesota) was the first woman employed on a tenure stream line; she joined the department in 1983. Carl Amrhein (SUNY Buffalo) was in the department for two years in the mid-1980s. John Paul Jones III (Ohio State), Graham Rowles (Clark), and John Watkins (Colorado) also came in the mid-1980s to bolster the department's strengths in human geography.\n\nA number of faculty, including Ulack, Watkins, Raitz, and Brunn, worked with faculty in the College of Education; they offered summer classes for teachers and worked with other professional geographers in the state, with teachers in the Kentucky Geographic Alliance (associated with the National Geographic Society) and with staff in the state's Department of Education. Brunn and Raitz also served as State Geographer. Rowles, Ulack, Watkins, Raitz, and Brunn at the same time worked with the director and others in the Appalachian Studies Center on various research projects and outreach programs. Other faculty established linkages with units on campus, including the Patterson School (Bladen, Karan, Brunn), Behavioral Sciences (Shannon), Center on Aging (Rowles and Watkins), Economics (Leinbach), Anthropology (Raitz), and the College of Communications (Brunn). A number of faculty cooperated with colleagues throughout the university on a variety of programs to internationalize the university; these included Leinbach, Ulack, Karan, Withington, and Brunn. Discipline-wise the department increased its visibility with Stan Brunn editing \"The Professional Geographer\" and later the \"Annals of the AAG\", and with Tom Leinbach's appointment as NSF Program Director for Geography and Regional Science and his editing of \"Growth and Change\". Several faculty became active in SEDAAG, especially Brunn and Raitz, who served as president (1991–93). A summer field station in Kyushu, Japan was established to train students for field research in Japan and the international field experiences of the department were expanded in the late 1990s to include Oaxaca, Mexico.\n\nRichard Ulack's appointment as chair of the department in 1988 energized the department's upward trajectory in the college, on campus, and in the discipline. It was during his tenure that the department began to develop one of its current major strengths: a center for critical social theory. The department played a central role in initiating and advancing this program during the late 1980s and early 1990s on campus and in by in the discipline. John Paul Jones, Ted Schatzki from Philosophy, and Wolfgang Natter (Johns Hopkins) in Germanic Studies established the innovative multidisciplinary Committee on Social Theory in 1989. This program grew with contributions from additional faculty members in the department, including John Pickles (Penn State), Susan Roberts (Syracuse) and Richard Schein (Syracuse), the later two who joined the department in 1991 and 1993 respectively. Under the auspices of the Committee on Social Theory, geographers worked closely with colleagues in Philosophy, English, History, Sociology, and Political Science. Committee founder Wolfgang Natter later joined the department in 1998 (leaving the department in 2005 for Virginia Tech) and Ted Schatzki took up a joint appointment (Philosophy and Geography).\n\nDuring this time, the department's international visibility remained strong with John Paul Jones serving as editor of the \"Annals of the AAG\" (1997–2000), Jones and Roberts organizing a 1995 workshop on \"New Horizons in Feminist Geography\", a number of faculty being active on AAG committees and in AAG specialty groups, and actively participating in numerous national and international conferences. The department's annual research productivity, including books, chapters, and presentations, etc. was instrumental in attracting strong applicants for entrance into the graduate program from the 1980s through the present. Students were active in contributing papers at SEDAAG and AAG meetings, working with faculty on research grants, and publishing articles with faculty or on their own.\n\nThe department's commitment to human geography was strengthened through participation in the women's studies program (now the Department of Gender & Women's Studies). Heidi Nast's (McGill) addition as a visiting assistant professor in 1994 was instrumental in the department's development of coursework and seminars on geography and gender. Haripriya Rangan (UCLA) took up a visiting assistant professor position in the department in 1995 and taught courses on resource use, non-Western environmental movements, and regional development. A further commitment to working with colleagues in women's studies was made with the faculty supporting the transfer of Paola Bachetta (Sorbonne) from the UK Department of Sociology in 1999 and the hiring of Anna Secor (Colorado) in 2000, when Bachetta left the department to accept a position at Berkeley.\n\nWhen John Pickles departed to take up an endowed chair at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and John Paul Jones III became Dean of the College of Social and Behavioral Sciences at the University of Arizona in 2003, the chair, Karl Raitz, convinced the administration to authorize a mid-rank faculty hire. The department offered this position to Tad Mutersbaugh who moved from the University of Iowa in 2003, deepening the department's strengths in political ecology. The department also hired Matthew Zook (Berkeley) in 2001 and Michael Crutcher (LSU) in 2003 (he left the department in 2011), with strengths in economic and internet geographies and cultural and historical geography, respectively. The intellectual life of the department during the 1990s and early 2000s was also enriched by a number of postdoctoral fellows and visiting scholars, including: Miguel de Oliver (Penn State), Heidi Nast (McGill), Amy Mills (UT-Austin), Alan Hudson (Cambridge), Ian Hay (Adelaide), Kristine Miranne (Wayne State), Caroline Nagel (Colorado), Tara Maddock (Ohio State), Perry Carter (Ohio State), Shantha Hennayake (Peradeniya), Nalini Hennayake (Peradeniya), Michael Crutcher (LSU), and Kathleen O'Reilly (Iowa). This period also saw the formation of a productive faculty exchange program with the School of Geography at the University of Nottingham that ran from 2003 to 2007.\n\nThe department grew from strength to strength when in 2006, two assistant professor lines and two associate professor lines were authorized. Michael Samers (Oxford) and Andrew Wood (Ohio State University) were appointed as associate professors from the University of Nottingham and University of Oklahoma, respectively, to extend course offerings in economic and urban geography. Patricia Ehrkamp (Minnesota) and Morgan Robertson (UW-Madison) joined as assistant professors from Miami University and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, respectively. Ehrkamp, with strengths in feminist and political geographies, and Robertson, as a political ecologist, orchestrated the return of the Mini-Conference on Critical Geography to the UK the following fall in 2007. Marshall Wilkinson (Macquarie) also joined as visiting faculty in physical geography and geomorphology in 2006 and promoted to tenure-track in 2007 (he left the department in 2010). Jeff Levy (BA Kentucky) was also hired as department GIS analyst in 2006, joining Gilbreath in the cartography lab. Dick Ulack retired from the department in 2007 (he died in April 2011).\n\nDuring the late 1990s, Linda Roth (Clark) offered courses in physical geography and biogeography a few years before her untimely death. The faculty for years, including in five-year plans, agreed that it was important to develop on such concentrations, following university commitment in 1989, not only to provide balanced course instruction for the undergraduate students, but also to appeal to existing and potential graduate students interested in human/environmental interfaces. The department's standing as a state-recognized Research Challenge Trust Fund department in the 1990s, one of only ten such programs on campus, enabled the department to hire a full professor to develop the physical geography program. Jonathan Phillips moved to the department in 2000 from Texas A&M. He was given a broad set of responsibilities that included oversight in hiring new physical geography faculty, building a physical geography component to the graduate program, offering additional physical geography classes, setting up a physical geography lab, and working with other university faculty in the earth sciences and environmental studies. The department hired Alice Turkington (Queens-Belfast) in 2001 and Sean Campbell (Arkansas) in 2002 to strengthen the physical cluster (Campbell left in 2006). Rosemary Sherriff (Colorado) joined faculty in 2008 to offer courses in landscape ecology (she left the department in 2010). Daehyun Kim (Texas A&M) was appointed in 2009 to extend offerings in biogeography and spatial analysis. In 2011, the physical geography faculty expanded with the hiring of Tony Stallins (Georgia) from Florida State and Liang Liang (UW-Milwaukee), with interests in human-organism geographies and phenology, respectively.\n\nSusan Roberts was named chair of the department in 2008. Tom Leinbach retired in May 2009 (he died in December 2009). Morgan Robertson's appointment augmented Mutersbaugh's work and catalyzed political ecology within the department. In the Spring of 2011, the graduate students hosted the first Dimensions of Political Ecology (DOPE) conference, which has since grown to become an internationally recognized event. Robertson returned to UW-Madison in Spring of 2013.\n\nTrushna Parekh (UT-Austin) served as a postdoctoral fellow, 2008 to 2011, and Sandra Zupan (UW-Milwaukee) was lecturer, 2010 to 2013.\n\nFollowing Roberts's term, Anna Secor served as interim chair, 2012 to 2013. Around this time, a number of faculty won Fulbright awards. Schein was the Bicentennial Chair in North American Studies at the University of Helsinki, Finland, 2012 to 2013. Fulbright Fellowships were also won by Roberts (University of Turku, Finland, 2012 to 2013), Samers (Université de Lille II, France, 2013 to 2014), and Zook (University of Tartu, Estonia, 2013 to 2014). In addition, Matthew W. Wilson (hired in 2011) was a visiting assistant professor at Harvard University. In 2013, Lynn Phillips moved to the tenure track, following several years of service as a lecturer in the department, after receiving a PhD in city planning at the University of Louisville. Secor received recognition in 2015 when the university named her named the Hajja Razia Sharif Sheikh Islamic Studies Professor.\n\nRich Schein was appointed the eighth chair of the department in 2013. Betsy Beymer-Farris (Illinois) joined the faculty from Furman University in 2014 to further expand offerings in political ecology, with research concentrations in Africa. Raitz retired in 2014 and Brunn retired in 2015. Carolyn Finney (Clark) joined the faculty from Berkeley in 2015, with research interests in the cultural geographies of the environment.\n\nIn the early 1970s, Gyula (Julius) Pauer (Kentucky) was appointed director of the department's cartography laboratory. In addition to teaching introductory and advanced cartography courses, he operated the laboratory, initially in a small room in Patterson Office Tower before it moved to the nearby and renovated Miller Hall basement in 1987. When Michael Kennedy joined the department from the College of Architecture in 1991, he began the department's GIS program with only a single computer. The hiring of Francis Harvey (Washington) in 1998 strengthened the department's GIS and social theory offerings. This concretized interests of the faculty in the GIS & Society debates of the 1990s. Edited by Pickles, \"Ground Truth\" was published in 1995 with contributions from Roberts, Schein, Jon Goss (Kentucky), and Pat McHaffie (Kentucky) -- this text quickly catalyzed the development of critical GIS. When Julius Pauer retired in 1997, the department received permission to hire a permanent staff line a director of the Cartographic Laboratory: Richard (Dick) Gilbreath (MA Kentucky). In 1998, Ulack, Raitz, and Pauer also edited a second \"Atlas of Kentucky\".\n\nMichael Kennedy's phased retirement created an opportunity to grow the GIS and cartography faculty. Drawing on the GIS & Society tradition begun by Pickles and Harvey (who left for Minnesota in 2001), the department appointed two new faculty in 2011: Jeremy Crampton (Penn State) from Georgia State and Matthew W. Wilson (Washington) from Ball State. Crampton, Wilson, and Zook founded the \"New Mappings Collaboratory\" in Fall of 2011, joining another UK-centered research activity on internet geographies, led by Zook since 2009: \"Floating Sheep\".\n\nWith support to establish online certificate and degree programs in digital mapping, the department hired Rich Donohue (Wisconsin) as a postdoctoral researcher in 2014. Donohue, along with Zook, Wilson, and Crampton, developed \"New Maps Plus\", expanding cartography and GIS coursework in web-based interactive cartography, geovisualization, and map design.\n\nThe late-2010s included a number of changes in the faculty. In 2016, after serving a year as Associate Dean of International Affairs, Sue Roberts was appointed Associate Provost for Internationalization. Upon promotion to Associate Dean of Faculty in 2017, Rich Schein stepped down as chair. Patricia Ehrkamp was appointed chair, only the ninth chair of the department in nearly 75 years. After several years as an affiliated member of the department, Ted Schatzki (Berkeley) joined the department, having previously served as Associate Dean of Faculty and Professor of Philosophy at Kentucky. Daehyun Kim left the department in 2017, returning to Seoul National University.\n\nResearch in the department is organized in the following research clusters:\n\n"}
{"id": "2616701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2616701", "title": "Dual naming", "text": "Dual naming\n\nDual naming is the adoption of an official place name that combines two earlier names, usually to resolve a disagreement over which of the two individual names is most appropriate. Sometimes the two individual names are from different languages. In several countries dual naming is used where a native people and a colonial settler community have used different names, for example the Denali naming dispute in the US.\n\nIn Australia, a dual naming policy is used to name landmarks that are of significance to the Indigenous Australians, but for which the most common name is European. For example, the landmark with the indigenous name \"Uluru\" and European name \"Ayers Rock\" is now officially named \"Uluru / Ayers Rock\".\n\nSimilarly, some places in New Zealand have dual Maori and English names, such as Aoraki/Mount Cook. The practice of officially giving certain New Zealand places dual names began in the 1920s, but dual names have become much more common in the 1990s and 2000s, in part due to Treaty of Waitangi settlements.\n\n\"Derry/Londonderry\" has been used unofficially to circumvent the Derry/Londonderry name dispute, in which Irish nationalists used \"Derry\" and Ulster unionists use \"Londonderry\" for the city and county in Northern Ireland. The \"Derry stroke Londonderry\" spoken form of this has in turn engendered the city's nickname \"Stroke City\".\n\nIn Romania, the city of Cluj was renamed Cluj-Napoca for political reasons in the 1970s, as the communist government wanted to emphasize the city's Roman origins.\n\nAnother example of the phenomenon can be seed in the name of the capital of the Spanish Basque Country, Vitoria-Gasteiz. This combines the city's Spanish name of Vitoria and Basque name of Gasteiz.\n\nThe official names of bilingual areas of Alsace, France, and Switzerland also apply. For instance, the German and French Swiss town of Biel/Bienne is the combination of its German name (Biel) and its French name (Bienne).\n\nIn Finland, many towns have two names, one in Finnish and one in Swedish (the two official languages of the country). The two names are considered equally correct but are not used as a formal duality of names.\n\nA special problem occurs when the landmark lies on the border between two (or more) countries, for example Mount Everest has several different locally-used names.\n\n"}
{"id": "452000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=452000", "title": "Educational Institute of Scotland", "text": "Educational Institute of Scotland\n\nThe Educational Institute of Scotland (EIS) is the oldest teachers' trade union in the world, having been founded in 1847 when dominies became concerned about the effect of changes to the system of education in Scotland on their professional status.\n\nThe EIS is the largest teaching union in Scotland, representing 80% of the country's teachers and lecturers. it has 54,580 members. Since being granted a royal charter by Queen Victoria, it is the only union able to award degrees. A recipient of the EIS degree is a \"Fellow of the Educational Institute of Scotland\", denoted by the post-nominal \"FEIS\".\n\nAn early example of such a degree (awarded in December 1847) was worded as follows:\n\n\"\"The Educational Institute of Scotland\nDIPLOMA OF FELLOW.\n\nWe, the Committee of Fellows of the Educational Institute of Scotland, appointed by the General Meeting which was held in the High School of Edinburgh on Saturday the 18th September 1847 to grant Diplomas to those Members admitted within the year 1847 who might be desirous of obtaining the Grade of Junior Licentiate, Senior Licentiate or Fellow, having examined the evidence produced by Mr John Gibson Smith, Schoolmaster of Ednam, in attestation of his professional attainments, experience and skill – and having found that his testimonials certify -\n\n1st That he is qualified to teach English, Grammar, Composition, History, Geography, Writing, Arithmetic, Algebra, Natural Science, Agricultural Chemistry, Latin, Greek and French.\n\n2nd That he has taught with acceptance and success during a period of Twenty years all the above named branches -\n\nDo hereby, on the 11th day of December 1847, grant to the said Mr John Gibson Smith this Diploma conferring on him the Grade of Fellow of the Educational Institute of Scotland, with all the honours rights and privileges thereto belonging.\n\n(Signed) L. Schmits, George S. Davidson, F.R. Low L.L.D., James Fulton, John White, Alex Reid L.L.D., Walter Nichol L.L.D., Wm. Knox.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "739147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=739147", "title": "Ergodic literature", "text": "Ergodic literature\n\nErgodic literature is a term coined by Espen J. Aarseth in his book \"Cybertext—Perspectives on Ergodic Literature\", and is derived from the Greek words \"ergon\", meaning \"work\", and \"hodos\", meaning \"path\". Aarseth's book contains the most commonly cited definition:\n\nIn ergodic literature, nontrivial effort is required to allow the reader to traverse the text. If ergodic literature is to make sense as a concept, there must also be nonergodic literature, where the effort to traverse the text is trivial, with no extranoematic responsibilities placed on the reader except (for example) eye movement and the periodic or arbitrary turning of pages.\n\nCybertext is a subcategory of ergodic literature that Aarseth defines as \"texts that involve calculation in their production of scriptons\". The process of reading printed matter, in contrast, involves \"trivial\" extranoematic effort, that is, merely moving one's eyes along lines of text and turning pages. Thus, hypertext fiction of the simple node and link variety is ergodic literature but not cybertext. A non-trivial effort is required for the reader to traverse the text, as the reader must constantly select which link to follow, but a link, when clicked, will always lead to the same node. A chat bot such as ELIZA is a cybertext because when the reader types in a sentence, the text-machine actually performs calculations on the fly that generate a textual response. The I Ching is likewise cited as an example of cybertext because it contains the rules for its own reading. The reader carries out the calculation but the rules are clearly embedded in the text itself. \n\nIt has been argued that these distinctions are not entirely clear and scholars still debate the fine points of the definitions. Under the definition above, \"Finnegans Wake\", the \"Critique of Pure Reason\", and \"Being and Time\" are considered nonergodic literature as they require only \"trivial...effort to traverse the text[s]\". A stack of stained and mouldering newspapers, on the other hand, is ergodic literature.\n\nOne of the major innovations of the concept of ergodic literature is that it is not medium-specific. New media researchers have tended to focus on the medium of the text, stressing that it is for instance paper-based or electronic. Aarseth broke with this basic assumption that the medium was the most important distinction, and argued that the mechanics of texts need not be medium-specific. Ergodic literature is not defined by medium, but by the way in which the text functions. Thus, both paper-based and electronic texts can be ergodic: \"The ergodic work of art is one that in a material sense includes the rules for its own use, a work that has certain requirements built in that automatically distinguishes between successful and unsuccessful users.\"\n\nExamples given by Aarseth include a diverse group of texts: wall inscriptions of the temples in ancient Egypt that are connected two-dimensionally (on one wall) or three dimensionally (from wall to wall or room to room); the \"I Ching\"; Apollinaire's \"Calligrammes\" in which the words of the poem \"are spread out in several directions to form a picture on the page, with no clear sequence in which to be read\"; Marc Saporta's \"Composition No. 1, Roman\", a novel with shuffleable pages; Raymond Queneau's \"One Hundred Thousand Billion Poems\"; B. S. Johnson's \"The Unfortunates\"; Milorad Pavić's \"Dictionary of the Khazars\" and \"Landscape Painted with Tea\"; Vladimir Nabokov's \"Pale Fire\"; Joseph Weizenbaum's \"ELIZA\"; William Chamberlain and Thomas Etter's \"Racter\"; Michael Joyce's \"Afternoon: a story\"; Roy Trubshaw and Richard Bartle's \"Multi-User Dungeon\" (aka \"MUD1\"); and James Aspnes's \"TinyMUD\". Some other contemporary examples of this type of literature are Nick Bantock's \"The Griffin and Sabine Trilogy\", \"S.\" by J. J. Abrams and Doug Dorst, \"\" by Marisha Pessl, and \"House of Leaves\" by Mark Z. Danielewski.\n\nAll these examples require non-trivial effort from the reader, who must participate actively in the construction of the text.\n\nThe concepts of cybertext and ergodic literature were of seminal importance to new media studies, in particular literary approaches to digital texts and to game studies.\n\n"}
{"id": "22099577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22099577", "title": "Fondo Egone Missio Archives", "text": "Fondo Egone Missio Archives\n\nThe Fondo Egone Missio (Egone Missio Archives) contains thousands of documents and photographs 1909-1967 relevant to the design and construction of passenger ships, from the original drawings of Monfalcone yard no. 1 (the steamship \"Trieste\" of 1909) to all the reference papers of the design and construction of Home Lines SS Oceanic (1965).\n\nThe archive is headquartered in Via Rosselli 20, 34074 Monfalcone, Italy. It was created in 2004 by Mrs. Edda Missio, daughter to the ship designer Mr. Egone Missio of Monfalcone, who entered the local shipyard a few months after its foundation, on 11 January 1909 as apprentice carpenter. He became the chief of the passenger design office in 1943, and he worked there until 1967. Missio kept a day-by-day business diary from 1952 to 1967, in which details of his career and of the ships he designed can be found, including details of all the meetings between the parties involved in the conception and design of the SS Oceanic. He designed several well-known passenger vessels, including MS Giulio Cesare (1951) and Oceanic (1965).\n\nA book devoted to the career of naval architect of Egone Missio, and the ocean liners he designed at the Monfalcone Shipyard was published in 2009. \"Amare Un Cantiere, Egone Missio E Lo Stablimento Di Montafalcone\" was written by Maurizio Eliseo. ().\n"}
{"id": "42151420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42151420", "title": "Friday Night at the ER", "text": "Friday Night at the ER\n\nFriday Night at the ER is an experiential team-learning game. Played on game boards at tables with four players per board, each gameplay session is followed by a detailed debriefing in which participants relate the simulation experience to their own work and gain insights for performance improvement.\n\nThe game simulates the challenge of managing a hospital during a 24-hour period. Players perform distinct functions, but they come to realize that they also depend on one another. While the game was designed to teach systems thinking, it has served diverse learning objectives across many industries and cultures.\n\nEach session includes 1.5 hours of game play followed by approximately 1.5 to 2 hours of debrief and discussion.\n\nThe Friday Night at the ER game was developed in 1992 by Breakthrough Learning, Inc., a consulting and training firm based in Morgan Hill, California. Its initial purpose was to broadly teach people to think systemically, collaborating across functional boundaries to achieve system goals. The game's design objectives were:\n\nSince its initial release, the Friday Night at the ER game has found use for a broader range of learning objectives within diverse organizations. Demonstrating the universality of systems principles, the game is in use by service organizations, manufacturing companies, government agencies, academic institutions and others in at least 30 countries.\n\nA predecessor learning game, The Beer Distribution Game, demonstrated effective team learning about the behavior of complex systems through an experiential activity.\n\nIn 1990, Peter Senge published \"The Fifth Discipline\" and popularized systems thinking as a discipline essential to learning organizations.\n\nThe Friday Night at the ER game has its origins in a business case that took place in 1990 at San Jose Medical Center, in San Jose, California, where a persistent problem of decreasing capacity for emergency patients was resolved using a system dynamics study that included a simulation model of patient flow. A high-leverage intervention to resolve the problem required collaboration across departments to share nursing staff during times of peak emergency demand.\n\nIn 1992, healthcare management consultant Bette Gardner created the Friday Night at the ER game, loosely based on that case, to teach management principles and the practice of systems thinking within healthcare and other organizations. The game development process included a computer-based simulation model (using the IThink simulation modelling environment), populated with time-of-day, day-of-week hospital arrival rates, and other data from public and private sources. The game was pilot tested with groups and presented at conferences starting in 1992.\n\nIn 1997, the Friday Night at the ER game was published in electronic form in \"Activating the Fifth Discipline\", a PC based multimedia education program \n\nAlthough the Friday Night at the ER game depicts a hospital based in the United States, it has been adopted and widely used as a team-learning tool both within the healthcare field\n\nIn 2014, an updated version of the Friday Night at the ER game was released with modernized and upgraded game and support materials.\n\nReports of the effectiveness of Friday Night at the ER are largely based on Likert surveys, testimonials and Net Promoter surveys. In 2018, educators at University of North Carolina at Greensboro published results of research in which students were assessed before and after using Friday Night at the ER. They concluded that the Friday Night at the ER activity is a useful teaching strategy for complex problem solving and application of systems thinking concepts.\n\nParticipants in a group (from 4 to 200 people) are assembled at tables equipped with game boards and associated materials. A program leader or coordinator provides verbal instructions; then participants play the game on their own for approximately one hour. The gameplay is followed by scoring to measure team performance. After a brief stretch break, participants reconvene for a debriefing. The debrief is facilitated by the program leader with a structured progression of discussion questions, reflection exercises, didactic presentation, and group tasks to bring to light key lessons of the experience, its relevance to the group and how participants will put lessons into practice after the program.\n\nThe structure of the program may be varied. For example, the gameplay's 24-hour simulation may be conducted in two 12-hour segments with a short debrief or planning meeting in between segments. Another variation has groups playing in separate rooms with a slightly different instruction or game-board structure in each room so that behavior and results can be compared. In addition to variations in the gameplay, the structure and content of the debrief may be designed to teach either a narrow or broad purpose.\n\nThe program generally requires 3.5 to 4 hours to complete the gameplay and debrief.\n\nAt each four-person table, players each manage one of four departments in a hospital: Emergency, Surgery, Critical Care, and Step Down. The gameboard hospital is consolidated and simplified (relative to reality) to enable players to progress through a simulated 24 hours in just one hour.\n\nEach department contains spaces in which patients are treated by staff, and game cards determine new patient arrivals as well as “ready to exit” indicators for patients. The game board may be seen as a hybrid version of a stock-flow map or process-flow chart. Players’ management tasks include determining staffing levels, accepting internal patient transfers, and remaining open to additional patients or diverting new ambulance arrivals. Among the other details of the gameplay are “events” that occur (e.g., a doctor is late, a room is being renovated, a staff member goes home sick), requiring reaction and management by players.\n\nDemand rates in the gameplay, by hour, from mid-day Friday to mid-day Saturday, represent the typical pattern seen in hospitals. Emergency arrivals ramp up during Friday night (a time when people more often engage in risky behaviors that lead to emergencies); while arrivals to other departments in the hospital decrease as the weekend begins. A portion of Emergency arrivals flow through to other departments, so players experience the ripple effect of demand and the challenge of interdepartmental hand-offs.\n\nConsequences of player decisions in the gameplay are both local and systemic. The structure of the game board, role assignments and the accounting system influence players to focus on department performance; yet as the game progresses it becomes evident that the more one tries to optimize a part, the worse the system as a whole performs.\n\nDuring the gameplay, players keep track of certain data on paperwork forms at each department. Following the gameplay, individuals at each table contribute to calculating a team score that reflects the quality of service they delivered and financial performance. Teams scores are displayed to provide benchmarks and to enable participants to relate behavior to performance.\n\nA standard debrief to teach applied systems thinking is described in the Friday Night at the ER Guide for Program Leaders with presentation slides to support key points. The debrief includes team reflection exercises, guided group discussion, didactic presentation and group tasks.\n\nDuring the debrief, participants are guided to focus on collaboration, innovation and data-driven decision-making as key strategies necessary for successful system performance. These three strategies are examined and they are shown to be interdependent. Participants see that these three strategies produce excellent performance in the gameplay, and that the same applies to their real-world endeavors within organizations.\n\nWhile these three strategies are not new ideas to most participants, the question is posed in the debrief, “Why, then, don’t we routinely put these strategies into day-to-day practice?”—as they demonstrated in the gameplay and as seen in the real world? An axiom from the field of system dynamics, “structure drives behavior,” is presented and participants are led through an exercise in which they examine how various structures within their organization may (unintentionally) inhibit desired behaviors.\n\nNumerous variations to the standard debrief have been reported.\n\nTypical objectives for use of the Friday Night at the ER game, settings in which it is used and reported outcomes are shown below.\n\nExamples of Objectives\n\nExamples of Settings\n\nExamples of Outcomes\n\n \n"}
{"id": "4932218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4932218", "title": "Gary K. Hart", "text": "Gary K. Hart\n\nGary K. Hart (born August 13, 1943) is an American politician and pro-charter school activist in southern California.\n\nHe was born on August 13, 1943, in San Diego, California, and graduated from Santa Barbara High School. He entered Stanford University on a football scholarship, spent six months based in Florence under Stanford's auspices, and graduated in History in 1965. He earned an M.A. from Harvard School of Education the next year.\n\nRunning as a Democrat, he lost campaigns for the United States House of Representatives (1970) and the California State Assembly (1972) but later won an Assembly seat (1974), succeeding incumbent Republican Don MacGillivray, who ran unsuccessfully for the State Senate. In 1982, he ran for the California State Senate and won, narrowly defeating Republican state Assemblyman Charles R. Imbrecht, whose wife would, coincidentally, go on to be a History teacher in Hart's PACE program (see below). Hart served in both houses of the Legislature for a total of 20 years, having chaired the Senate Education Committee from 1983 until his retirement in 1994. In 1988, he had made another run for Congress but narrowly lost to Republican incumbent Bob Lagomarsino.\n\nHart's State Senate district included portions of Santa Barbara, San Luis Obispo, Ventura, and Los Angeles Counties. A former high school teacher and a Democrat, Hart authored a wide range of legislation on education topics, including performance-based student testing, school restructuring, charter schools, and latch key child care programs. He was voted most ethical California legislator by his peers and as such appeared on the cover of \"California Journal\".\n\nAfter his retirement from the Legislature, he founded the California State University Institute for Education Reform, located on the CSU Sacramento campus. The Institute promotes education reform efforts aimed at improving pupil academic achievement. Hart also served as the California Secretary of Education for Governor Gray Davis from January 1999 through March 2000. His principal responsibility as Secretary for Education was helping craft and pass the Governor's 1999 education reform program. Most recently, he has created and taught in the Program in America and California Explorations (PACE), an innovative core humanities initiative at Kennedy High School in Sacramento.\n\n"}
{"id": "272903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=272903", "title": "General Educational Development", "text": "General Educational Development\n\nThe General Educational Development (GED) tests are a group of four subject tests which, when passed, provide certification that the test taker has United States or Canadian high school-level academic skills. GED does not currently stand for anything and instead \"it is more similar to a brand name.\" (personal communication with Pearson's GED Testing Program Customer Service). It is an alternative to the US High school diploma, HiSET and TASC test. The GED Testing website currently does not refer to the test as anything but \"GED\" .\n\nThe American Council on Education (ACE), in Washington, D.C. (U.S.), which owns the GED trademark, coined the initialism to identify \"tests of general equivalency development\" that measure proficiency in science, mathematics, social studies, reading, and writing. Passing the GED test gives those who do not complete high school, or who do not meet requirements for high school diploma, the opportunity to earn their high school equivalency credential, also called a high school equivalency development or general equivalency diploma. It is called the GED in the majority of the United States, Canada, or internationally. In 2014, some states in the United States switched to alternate exams, the HiSET and TASC. In New York, if the examinee successfully passes all their TASC exams, the examinee would earn a High School Equivalent diploma (Abbreviated as HSE), which replaced the GED diploma.\n\nThe GED Testing Service is a joint venture of the American Council on Education. Pearson is the sole developer for the GED test. The test is taken on a computer and in person. States and jurisdictions award a Certificate of High School Equivalency or similarly titled credential to persons who meet the passing score requirements.\n\nIn addition to English, the GED tests are available in Spanish and in French in Canada, large print, audio, and braille. Tests and test preparation are also offered to persons incarcerated and on military bases in addition to more traditional settings. Individuals living outside the United States, Canada, or U.S. territories may be eligible to take the GED tests through Pearson Vue testing centers. Utah’s Adult High School Completion program has been used as an alternative for individuals who opt to earn a diploma.\n\nIn November 1942, the United States Armed Forces Institute asked the American Council on Education (ACE) to develop a battery of tests to measure high school-level academic skills. These tests gave military personnel and veterans who had enrolled in the military before completing high school a way to demonstrate their knowledge. Passing these tests gave returning soldiers and sailors the academic credentials they needed to get civilian jobs and gain access to post-secondary education or training.\n\nACE revised the GED Tests for a third time in 1988. The most noticeable change to the series was the addition of a writing sample, or essay. The new tests placed more emphasis on socially relevant topics and problem-solving skills. Surveys of test-takers found that more students (65%) reported taking the test with the intention of continuing their education beyond high school, rather than to get better employment (30%).\n\nA fourth revision was made in 2002 to make the test comply with more recent standards for high-school education.\n\nA fifth revision was released on January 2, 2014, to be delivered on Pearson VUE, a proprietary computer-based testing platform. The new test applies to the United States, but not to Canada or international locations. It retained four content areas but with different content — language arts, mathematics, science, and social studies — that \"measure a foundational core of knowledge and skills that are essential for career and college readiness.\"\n\nThere are more than 3,200 Official GED Testing Centers in the United States and increasingly in Canada, as well as around the world. Testing centers are most often in adult-education centers, community colleges, and public schools. Students in metropolitan areas may be able to choose from several testing locations.\n\nOfficial GED Testing Centers are controlled environments. All testing sessions take place either in person or online according to very specific rules, and security measures are enforced. Breaks may be permitted between tests, depending on how many tests are being administered in a session. There may be restrictions on what test-takers may bring into the testing room.\n\nThere are approximately three to six GED test forms in circulation at any time. This measure helps catch test-takers who may be cheating. As with any standardized test, the various test forms are calibrated to the same level of difficulty.\n\nRegulations governing eligibility to take the GED vary by state. According to GED Testing Service policy, students at least 16 years old and not enrolled in high school are eligible for the program. However, many states require the candidate to be 17 years of age and a resident of the state. Some states which allow students under 17 years of age to take the test require a letter of parental consent and a letter of consent from the student's school district.\n\nThe cost of the GED test for test-takers varies depending on the state. Currently costs can be as low as $45 as is the case in Maryland, but the typical fees are $120 for all four tests, or $30 for each of the four subject tests.\n\nDisabled persons who want to take the GED test may be entitled to receive reasonable testing accommodations. If a qualified professional has documented the disability, the candidate should get the appropriate form from the Testing Center:\n\nThe candidate should return the completed form to the GED Testing Center. Each request is considered individually. If accommodations are approved, the local GED testing examiner will conduct the testing with the approved accommodations, which are provided at no extra charge. Accommodations may include, but are not limited to:\n\nPossible scores on an individual test within the GED battery, range from a minimum of 100 to a maximum of 200. A score of 200 on an individual test puts the student in the top 1% of graduating high school seniors. ACE issues recommendations for what constitutes a minimum passing score for any given sub-test (currently 145) and for the test as a whole (currently 580—i.e., an average of 145 per test across all four sub-tests). Although most GED-issuing jurisdictions (for the most part, Boards of Education of U.S. states) adopt these minimum standards as their own, a jurisdiction may establish higher standards for issuance of the certificate if it chooses. Many jurisdictions award honors-level equivalency diplomas to students meeting certain criteria higher than those for a standard diploma in a given jurisdiction. Some districts hold graduation ceremonies for GED Tests passers and/or award scholarships to the highest scorers. \n\nColleges admit that grades based upon high school may require a minimum score on the GED test for admittance based upon the test. For example, Arizona State University requires an average sub-test score of 500 in addition to the certificate.\n\nIf a student passes one or more, but not all four tests within the battery, he or she only needs to retake the test(s) they did not pass. Most places limit the number of times students may take each individual test within a year. A student may encounter a waiting period before being allowed to retake a failed test. Tests must be completed by the expiration date, which is generally every two years on the last day of the year.\n\nMany government institutions and universities regard the GED test credential as the same as a high school diploma with respect to program eligibility and as a prerequisite for admissions. The U.S. military, however, has explicitly higher requirements in admissions for GED test takers to compensate for their lack of a traditional high school diploma. The test is administered to a representative sample of graduating high-school seniors each year, about 30% of whom fail the test. That only 70% of these students pass the test may show that it is harder than commonly believed.\n\nThe GED certification itself (i.e., without further post-secondary education or training) does not create the same labor market opportunities available to traditional high school graduates. While people who have earned the GED test credential tend to earn more than dropouts and less than high school graduates, economist James Heckman has found that this is primarily due to existing differences in the characteristics and backgrounds of GED test graduates. When controlling for other influences, he finds no evidence that, for the average taker, the GED test credential improves an individual's economic opportunities above those for other dropouts.\n\nSome say overall, there is a certain level of stigma for GED certification holders that affects employability or pursuit of higher education.\n\nThere are calls for the GED to be abolished. Those who support abolishing the GED say the program reduces high school graduation rates, is outmoded, and is a big financial burden for low-income participants.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "413665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=413665", "title": "George Starbuck", "text": "George Starbuck\n\nGeorge Edwin Starbuck (June 15, 1931 in Columbus, Ohio – August 15, 1996 in Tuscaloosa, Alabama) was an American poet of the neo-formalist school.\n\nStarbuck studied at Chadwick School, the California Institute of Technology, the University of California, Berkeley, the American Academy in Rome, the University of Chicago, and Harvard University. He also studied under Robert Lowell in the Boston University workshop with Sylvia Plath and Anne Sexton. He taught at the Iowa Writers Workshop, Boston University, and the State University of New York, Buffalo. He was fired by SUNY-Buffalo for not taking a loyalty oath, but was vindicated by the Supreme Court. His students included Maxine Kumin, Peter Davison, Emily Hiestand, Mary Baine Campbell, Craig Lucas, James Hercules Sutton, and Askold Melnyczuk.\n\nStarbuck had five children: Margaret, Stephen, John, Anthony, and Joshua. His papers are held at the University of Alabama library.\n\nStarbuck's work is marked by clever rhymes, witty asides, and the fusing of Romantic themes with cynicism about modern life. For example, his book \"Bone Thoughts\" was published with half its pages blank, and he called his style of formalism \"SLABS\" (Standard Length And Breadth Sonnets. He was not widely appreciated in the mainstream culture during his lifetime, but two new collections of his poems have been published in the last few years, \"Poems Selected from Five Decades\" and \"Visible Ink\", helping win him a wider audience.\n\nStarbuck's best-known poems include \"Tuolomne,\" \"On an Urban Battlefield,\" and \"Sonnet With a Different Letter At the End of Every Line.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29914773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29914773", "title": "Harry Stottlemeier's Discovery", "text": "Harry Stottlemeier's Discovery\n\nHarry Stottlemeier's Discovery is a philosophical novel for children by Matthew Lipman. The novel was Lipman's first, and inaugurated the educational movement known as Philosophy for Children. It was first published in 1971 and revised in 1974.\n\nThe book deals with everyday situations which a group of children encounter. These situations then become the substance for mental engagement and thinking about thinking. Rather than looking for answers, the type of thinking encouraged is about prolonging questioning, and performing self-initiated testing on the events or objects under discussion. There is a focus on how to teach ourselves logic by examining the results of the self-initiated tests. The books deal with substantial democratic issues as well such as \"should every child go to school?\", \"should every person salute the flag?\" In the early 1970s it entered Montclair Public Schools in New Jersey. Lipman subsequently published an instruction manual to accompany it.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24614533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24614533", "title": "Hesburgh Library", "text": "Hesburgh Library\n\nTheodore Hesburgh Library is the primary building of the University of Notre Dame's library system. The present-day building \nopened on September 18, 1963, as Memorial Library. In 1987 it was renamed Hesburgh Library in honor of Father Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., who served as the university's president from 1952 to 1987. The library's exterior façade that faces the university's football stadium includes a large, by mural called \"The Word of Life,\" or more commonly known as \"Touchdown Jesus.\" As of 2009, the library ranked as the 61st largest collection among research universities in the United States with an estimated 3.39 million volumes.\n\nBefore the establishment of a library for students, students took the initiative to establish literary societies, that served as the source of literature and discussion of scholarly topics. The first one was the St. Aloysius Literary Society, which was founded in 1850 and six years later established the first student library. It was followed by the Aloysius Philodemics, the Philopatrians and the St Edwards Library Society.\n\nThe first circulating library at Notre Dame was created in 1873 by President Rev. Augustus Lemonnier, C.S.C., and incorporate the previously existing student libraries. It was housed on the third floor of the Main Building and its first librarian was Jimmie Edwards, CSC. In 1879 the Main Building was destroyed by fire and 500 books were lost. After the Main Building was rebuilt, a new library was established with a budget of $500 and comprised 16,000 volumes. In 1888, during the golden jubilee of Fr. Edward Sorin, a new library was opened on the third floor. By 1900 it contained 52,000 books. In 1907 the university hired Florence Espy, a professional librarian, to catalog the collection. After the death of Edwards, Paul Foik, CSC, came to Notre Dame in 1912 and took over his positions; he pushed for the construction of a library building.\n\nA new building (the present-day Bond Hall) to house the library was built in 1917. It was dedicated during the 75th anniversary of the University, with President William Taft in attendance. By 1920 its collection reached 103,00 volumes. The Dewey Decimal Classification has been used to classify the library's holdings since 1929. Thematic collections were established in other buildings in subsequent decades. A separate engineering library opened in 1933, followed by a biology library in 1938, the Medieval Institute in 1946, and the Nieuwland science library for chemistry, physics, and mathematics in 1953.\n\nIn 1959 Father Theodore Hesburgh, the university's president, announced plans for construction of a new library. Ground was broken in 1961, with the Ellerbe Company of Saint Paul, Minnesota, as the project's architect. Construction took three years. Memorial Library officially opened on September 18, 1963.\n\nThe finished structure, which is tall, is built on a site that encompasses . The interior of has two lower floors that serve as a base for a narrower and nearly windowless 13-story tower capped with a smaller penthouse. Interior floors have few walls and are supported by bare columns to create a flexible space to arrange stacks of books. The size of the windows was minimized to reduce glare and avoid uneven light from the outside. The two lower floors feature a more extensive use of glass, as well as brick and tweed granite, while the upper floors are finished in Makato stone.\n\nThe library's collection reached one million volumes in 1970 and surpassed 1.5 million volumes in 1986. In 1987 the library was renamed Hesburgh Library in honor of Fr. Hesburgh, the university's retiring president, who served as Notre Dame's president for thirty-five years (from 1952 to 1987). In his retirement, Hesburgh maintained an office on the library's thirteenth floor, overlooking the Main Quad.\n\nAs of 2009, the library housed 3.39 million volumes. The Association of Research Libraries ranked it the 61st largest collection among research universities in the United States.\n\nIn 2015 the university began major renovations to the library that will modernize its interior design.\n\nThe side of the library facing the stadium is covered with a mural called \"The Word of Life\", more commonly known as \"Touchdown Jesus\", that measures high and wide.\n\nWhen the library opened in 1963, the mural had not yet been installed. American artist Millard Sheets was commissioned to create a work large enough to cover the entire side of the library facing Notre Dame's football stadium. Fr. Theodore Hesburgh suggested that the theme should be saints and scholars through the ages. The artwork cost $200,000 and was donated by Mr. and Mrs. Howard V. Phalin of Winnetka, Illinois. Installation took place in the spring of 1964; the dedication ceremony was held on May 7, 1964. The mural is composed of 324 panels. Its creation employed 81 different stones from 16 countries in 171 finishes that included 46 granites and syenites, 10 gabros and labradorites, 4 metamorphic gneisses, 12 serpentines, 4 crystalline marbles, and 5 limestones.\n\nThe artwork depicts a procession of figures representing Christian saints, thinkers, teachers, and writers, a topic that connected to the idea of the library. Figures were selected from different centuries and places to convey the concept of the Catholic Church's historical continuity. At the top of the procession the central figure is the resurrected Jesus Christ, conceived as the great teacher and master, and the fountain of knowledge contained in the library. The artwork, which is titled \"The Word of Life\", is tall and wide.\n\nThe mural's image of Jesus, visible from Notre Dame's football stadium, has arms raised in the same fashion as a referee signifying a touchdown. From this similarity came the mural's nickname, \"Touchdown Jesus\". A stadium expansion partially obscures views of the mural from the field.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1801449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1801449", "title": "Hornbook", "text": "Hornbook\n\nA hornbook is a book that serves as primer for study. The hornbook originated in England as long ago as 1450, or earlier. The term has been applied to a few different study materials in different fields. In children's education, in the years before modern educational materials were used, it referred to a leaf or page displaying the alphabet, religious materials, etc., covered with a transparent sheet of horn (or mica) and attached to a frame provided with a handle.\n\nIn United States law, a hornbook is a text that gives an overview of a particular area of law. A law hornbook is a type of treatise, usually one volume, which could be a briefer version of a longer, multi-volume treatise. Students in American law schools often use hornbooks as supplements to casebooks.\n\nIn childhood education from the mid-16th century to the late 19th century, a hornbook was a primer for children consisting of a sheet containing the letters of the alphabet, mounted on wood, bone, leather, or stone and protected by a thin sheet of transparent horn or mica. Sometimes the sheet was simply pasted against the slice of horn. The wooden frame often had a handle, and it was usually hung at the child's girdle. The sheet, which was first of vellum and later of paper, contained first a large cross, from which the horn-book was called the Christ Cross Row, or criss-cross-row. The alphabet in large and small letters followed. The vowels then formed a line, and their combinations with the consonants were given in a tabular form. The usual Trinitarian formula – \"in the name of the Father and of the Sonne and of the Holy Ghost, Amen\" – followed, then the Lord's Prayer, the whole concluding with the Roman numerals.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8663148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8663148", "title": "James \"Red\" Duke", "text": "James \"Red\" Duke\n\nJames Henry \"Red\" Duke, Jr. (November 16, 1928 – August 25, 2015) was a trauma surgeon and professor at The University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston and Memorial Hermann-Texas Medical Center, where he worked on-site since 1972. He was instrumental in introducing Memorial Hermann's Life Flight program and bringing a level I trauma center to Houston. Outside Texas, he is probably most famous for the nationally syndicated television spot called \"Texas Health Reports\" or \"Dr. Red Duke's Health Reports\", which aired on local television stations in the United States for fifteen years. \n\nDuke was born in Ennis, Texas. He graduated from Hillsboro High School and later earned a Bachelor of Science degree from Texas A&M University in 1950. He served as a yell leader at Texas A&M and was the first person to deliver the poem \"The Last Corps Trip\" publicly. \n\nHe served a two-year tour of duty as a tank officer in the 2nd Armored Division of the U.S. Army and then earned a divinity degree from Southwestern Baptist Theological Seminary in 1955. After reading a book by Albert Schweitzer, he changed vocations to medicine and enrolled in the University of Texas Southwestern Medical School in Dallas, from which he received his M.D. in 1960. \n\nDuke completed his internship in internal medicine and his residency in general surgery at Dallas' Parkland Memorial Hospital in 1965. During his residency, Duke was the first surgeon to receive President John F. Kennedy at Parkland after he was shot in Dallas in 1963, then attended to the wounds of then Texas Governor John Connally.\n\nDuke was a fourth-year surgery resident at Parkland Hospital the day President John F. Kennedy and Texas Gov. Connally were shot and rushed to that hospital. Upon their arrival, Duke says, \"It didn't take long to appreciate the gravity of the situation.\" When asked what can you do for him, he said, \"I can't do much for a dead man.\"\n\nDuke's academic career began in 1966 as an assistant professor of surgery at UT Southwestern Medical School and later at the Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons in New York. He also took some time to pursue graduate studies in chemical engineering, biochemistry and computer sciences at Columbia University under the auspices of an NIH Special Fellowship. While Duke was an assistant professor of surgery in New York, he spent two years from 1970 to 1972 in Jalalabad, Afghanistan, as a visiting professor and later chairman of surgery at Nangarhar University School of Medicine.\n\nAfter returning from Afghanistan, Duke joined the faculty of the University of Texas Medical School at Houston, where he was a professor of surgery. Among his many responsibilities, Duke served as special assistant to the president of the UT Health Science Center and held one of the distinguished professorships at the UT Medical School as the John B. Holmes Professor of Clinical Sciences. He established Houston's Hermann Hospital Life Flight operations in 1976 and helped establish its trauma and emergency services, of which he served as director.\n\nDuke was a founding member of the American Trauma Society and was an Advanced Trauma Life Support instructor for the American College of Surgeons. He was named Surgeon of the Year by the James F. Mitchell Foundation in 1988. Duke's efforts to educate the public in health issues and tireless work as a crusader against trauma brought him into serious consideration for the position of Surgeon General of the United States in 1989.\n\nOn August 25, 2015, it was reported that Duke had died at Memorial Hermann Hospital in Houston from natural causes. He was 86 years old.\n\nThe University of Texas Medical School at Houston Department of Surgery sponsored a scholarship fund in honor of Duke, aimed towards students wishing to research and train in the field of trauma.\n\nDuke was also noted outside the medical community. He attained the rank of Eagle Scout, and the Boy Scouts of America honored him with the Distinguished Eagle Scout Award. As founder and past president of the Texas Bighorn Society, Duke was a major supporter of many wildlife conservation groups. He served as president of the Boone and Crockett Club, the oldest conservation organization in the United States, and the Foundation for North American Wild Sheep.\n\nDuke was also one of the most recognized television personalities in his field, as determined by the Gallup Organization. He was the former host of the nationally syndicated \"Texas Health Reports\" and hosted the former PBS series \"Bodywatch\". The programs educated millions about various health-related topics. He was well-recognized for his distinctive Texan accent, ever-present large mustache and \"Duke-isms\" (like his popular segment sign-off \"For your health!\"). Duke has been featured on such programs as \"PM Magazine\", \"NBC Nightly News\", \"The Today Show\" and the \"Buck James\" television series, which was based on him.\n\nDr. Red Duke Elementary School in the Alvin Independent School District opened in 2014 was named after Duke.\n\n"}
{"id": "51073887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51073887", "title": "Joint Program in Survey Methodology", "text": "Joint Program in Survey Methodology\n\nThe Joint Program in Survey Methodology was established at the University of Maryland, College Park in 1993, a collaboration between that University, the University of Michigan, and Westat. Today JPSM offers coursework on-site and online, offering MS and Ph.D. degrees, certificate programs, and short courses on the subjects of Survey Methodology, Survey Statistics, and Data Science.\n\nIn the early 1990s, the U.S. federal statistical system (Interagency Council on Statistical Policy) sought assistance to provide advanced training to their employees in survey statistics and methodology. Employees who had graduate degrees from traditional statistics programs lacked knowledge on the design of complex samples and developing survey instruments—interdisciplinary training which was necessary for implementing large-scale national surveys and censuses. In order to accomplish this initiative, the National Science Foundation set up a grant that would provide an initial five years of funding for a University to establish this program. The grant was awarded to the Joint Program in Survey Methodology (JPSM), a group made up by the University of Maryland, College Park, the University of Michigan, and Westat, and was headquartered at the University of Maryland, College Park. Academic courses began in Fall 1993, under the heading of the first JPSM director, sociologist Stanley Presser. The second director of JPSM, serving from 1996-2001 was Robert Groves, who went on to later head the US Census Bureau. In 1998, a summer internship program was added for undergraduate students which linked them to paid internships at U.S. federal statistical agencies as well as offering coursework in survey methodology. In 2000, JPSM enrolled their first Ph.D. students, in both statistical and social science concentrations of survey methodology. Survey methodologist, Roger Tourangeau, was named the director of JPSM in 2001 and served through 2011. The fourth JPSM director, Frederick Conrad, served from 2012-2015. JPSM is currently headed by Frauke Kreuter, who is also Professor of Statistics and Methodology at the University of Mannheim and head of the Statistical Methods Research Department at the Institute for Employment Research (IAB) in Nürnberg, Germany.\n\nCurrently, JPSM offers both MS and Ph.D. programs, in addition to an undergraduate minor, graduate-level certificates, online courses, and short (1-2 day) courses to meet the needs of survey professionals. In addition, JPSM offers a summer program for undergraduate students with internship placements at statistical agencies. To greater strengthen JPSM's collaboration with the federal statistical agencies, many agencies, such as the US Census Bureau, the National Center of Health Statistics, and the Bureau of Labor Statistics, have employed JPSM students as research assistants. Federal agencies also provide real world problems that are taken on by students in practicum or design seminar classes. Graduates of the JPSM programs are employed by federal agencies, by industry survey organizations, such as Westat, Mathematica Policy Research, Gallup, and the Pew Center, as well as university survey organizations such as the University of Michigan Institute for Social Research and NORC at the University of Chicago.\n\nJPSM is also a core partner, along with the University of Mannheim (Germany), in a new International Program in Survey and Data Science (IPSDS), allowing international survey researchers to learn survey methodology courses online from international experts in the field.\n"}
{"id": "38231840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38231840", "title": "Krkonose / Karkonosze", "text": "Krkonose / Karkonosze\n\nThe Krkonose / Karkonosze (Czech: , Polish: ) is a MAB transboundary biosphere reserve, mixed mountain and highland system designated by UNESCO as \"Krkonose / Karkonosze Mountains\" in 1992. It is shared by the Czech Republic and Poland. Notably, it is one of only two successful transboundary management structures in existence, aside from the East Carpathians Biosphere Reserve, due to contrasting goals in other shared areas covered by MAB.\n\nThe Krkonose / Karkonosze ecosystem is managed by the Biosphere Reserve Bilateral Board composed of specialists, with financial aid from the Global Environment Facility (GEF). It is an \"ecological island\", noted by UNESCO for its profusion of mountain meadows with a network of chalets, and a \"significant\" infrastructure both for winter-and-summer sports, as well as qualified tourism.\n\nThe landscape relief on the Polish side of the biosphere reserve differs from the Czech part considerably. It is very steep and therefore lacking in human development, but instead, it is covered by dense forests. However, both Polish and Czech mountains are equally impacted by heavy air pollution. The Krkonose/Karkonosze Mountains are frequented by over 10 million visitors annually, mostly hikers and skiers, with about 6–8 million in the Czech Republic and 2,5–3 million on the Polish side of the system as of 2002.\n\nThe Krkonose / Karkonosze biosphere reserve Programme is run by nine working groups, each focusing on a separate topic area, including nature conservation, tourism, forestry management, and local communities among other things. Their Bilateral Board provides a forum for cross-border communication regarding legal matters as well as development plans and scientific research. The sun-drenched southern slopes differ from the northern slopes also in their habitat although both consist basically of alpine tundra vegetation with subarctic peat bogs and spruce forests. The network administration is shared between Krkonose National Park and Karkonosze National Park authorities, with headquarters in Vrchlabí and Jelenia Góra respectively.\n\n"}
{"id": "36033539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36033539", "title": "Land navigation (military)", "text": "Land navigation (military)\n\nLand navigation, or orienteering, is the military term for the study of traversing through unfamiliar terrain by foot or in a land vehicle. Land navigation includes the ability to read maps, use a compass, and other navigational skills. \n\nLand navigation courses are an essential part of military training. Often, these courses are several miles long in rough terrain and are performed under adverse conditions, such as at night or in the rain.\n\nIn the late 19th century, land navigation developed into the sport of orienteering. The earliest use of the term 'orienteering' appears to be in 1886. Nordic military garrisons began orienteering competitions in 1895.\n\nIn the United States military, land navigation courses are required for the Marine Corps and the Army. Air Force escape and evasion training includes aspects of land navigation. Army Field Manual 3-25.26 is devoted to land navigation.\n\n"}
{"id": "22815999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22815999", "title": "Mary Crow", "text": "Mary Crow\n\nMary Crow is an American poet, translator, and professor who served as the poet laureate of Colorado for 14 years. She is the author of two collections of poetry, three chapbooks and five translations.\n\nShe has been awarded many honors and prizes including poetry fellowships from the National Endowment for the Arts and the Colorado Council on the Arts, a Creative Writing Award from the Fulbright Commission to read her poems in Yugoslavia, a Colorado Book Award, a Translation Award from Columbia University's Translation Center, Fulbright research awards to Chile, Peru, Argentina, and Venezuela. She has been awarded writers' residencies in the Czech Republic by Milkwood International, in Spain by Fundacion Valparaiso, and in Israel by Miskenot Sha'ananim as well as at Hedgebrook, Ragdale, Djerassi, the Helene Wurlitzer Foundation, and the Lannan Foundation\n\nCrow has published her work widely in magazines and journals, including \"FIELD, Michigan Quarterly Review, Prairie Schooner, Smartish Pace,\" and \"Ploughshares.\" Garrison Keillor read her poem, \"Saturday Matinee,\" on the NPR program \"The Writer's Almanac.\"\n\nRaised in Loudonville, Ohio, and educated at the College of Wooster, Indiana University, and the Iowa Writers Workshop, she is now Emeritus Professor of English at Colorado State University.\n\nFull-length Poetry Collections\n\n\nChapbooks\n\n\nTranslations\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46427075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46427075", "title": "Mary Lee Ware", "text": "Mary Lee Ware\n\nMary Lee Ware, (Jan. 7, 1858 – Jan. 9, 1937) daughter of Elizabeth Cabot (Lee) Ware and Charles Eliot Ware, was born to a wealthy Bostonian family and, with her mother, was the principal sponsor of the Harvard Museum of Natural History's famous Glass Flowers (formally \"The Ware Collection of Blaschka Glass Models of Plants\"). She was an avid student of botany, particularly of the work of George Lincoln Goodale; a close friend and sponsor of Leopold and Rudolf Blaschka, creators of the Glass Flowers; and a leading philanthropist and farmer of West Rindge, New Hampshire and Boston, Massachusetts.\n\nBorn into a respected family in the New Hampshire town of Rindge, specifically to naturalist and Harvard Medical School professor Dr. Charles Eliot Ware (\"a leading physician in Boston\") and his wife Elizabeth in 1858, Mary Lee Ware was an avid nature-lover and lived according to the precept \"It is more blessed to give than to receive.\" Taken to Italy as a young girl, Mary was dazzled by the many sights (such as Rome and Florence) there, which served to enhance her love of beautiful things. Beauty that ranged from the picturesque landscape to the language which she quickly excelled, to the art for which the country is famous. This is no surprise given that her father, Dr. Charles Ware (Harvard class of 1834), while not a botanist himself raised his daughter to love botany with a passion. A love which was fostered by the family farm in Rindge New Hampshire, a place which stood out happily among her childhood memories. Mary eventually (exactly when is unclear given source ambiguity) settled with her parents and possibly brother, Charles Jr. (reports/sources vary regarding his existence, with the bare majority suggesting it) in Boston, 41 Brimmer Street (Back Bay), around 1870; at that time, Mary was 13 years old. She was also, at some point, a student of Radcliffe College and learned under Dr. Goodale - who would become the first director of the Harvard Botanical Museum. In fact, \"Mary Ware, an especially fascinating character, became in many respects a professional naturalist,\" a role which she was later able to utilize by being the patron sponsor of the Glass Flowers, her purpose being to advance the education of women.\n\nThe \"ever-loyal and ever-generous\" Mary Lee Ware and her mother were drawn into the Glass Flowers enterprise in 1886 when her former teacher, Professor George Goodale, approached them with his idea to populate the new Botanical Museum (of which he was the first director) with Blaschka glass specimens. Being independently wealthy and (already) liberal benefactors of Harvard's botany department, Mary convinced her mother to agree to underwrite the 200 mark consignment, but this was done anonymously at first (and would remain so until 1888). The uncannily lifelike models arrived in the spring of 1887 and enchanted the Wares. Then, that same year, Dr. Charles Ware died, thus filling the two women with the desire to provide Harvard with a donation in his memory. Hence, when the official contract was signed between the Mary and her mother, Leopold and Rudolf, and Harvard, the agreement was that the collection would be a memorial to the now deceased Doctor: \"The first Blaschka glass flowers are formally presented to the Botanical Museum as a memorial to Dr. Charles Eliot Ware, Class of 1834, by his widow Elizabeth C. Ware and daughter Mary L. Ware.\" Today, there is a large bronze plaque in the exhibit's center formally dedicating it to the nature-loving Doctor, father, and husband. The initial contract signed dictated that the Blaschkas need only work half-time on the models, thus allowing them to continue their work making glass marine invertebrates. However, in 1890, they and Goodale - acting on behalf of the Wares - signed an updated version that allowed Leopold and Rudolf to work on them (the Glass Flowers) full-time; some sources detail the agreement as a shift from a 3-year contract to a 10-year one, agreed to once Goodale convinced Mary and her mother of the wisdom in doing so. It is also noted by Prof. Goodale in the \"Annual reports of the President and Treasurer of Harvard College 1890-1891\" that the updated contract was partly due to the Blaschkas insisting that it was impossible to craft the botanical models for half the year and the marine ones the other half; \"they said that they must give up either one or the other.\" Furthermore, the report notes that the activity of the Blaschka \"has been greatly increased by their exclusive devotion to a single a single line of work.\" Later, in 1889, Leopold made and gifted a bouquet of glass flowers to the Wares which, at some later date, was given to Harvard and is now part of the Glass Flowers exhibit.\n\nEarly in the making of the Glass Flowers, Mary Lee Ware engaged in correspondence with Professor Goodale regarding the making of the collection, one of which contained a remark of Leopold's regarding the false rumor that secret methods were used in the making of the Glass Flowers: \"Many people think that we have some secret apparatus by which we can squeeze glass suddenly into these forms, but it is not so. We have tact. My son Rudolf has more than I have, because he is my son, and tact increases in every generation. The only way to become a glass modeler of skill, I have often said to people, is to get a good great-grandfather who loved glass.\"\nMiss Ware is also known to have visited the Blaschka home/studio three times, the first in 1899 along with Prof. Goodale, Mrs Goodale and their son Francis. By this time Mary was the sole benefactress of the Blaschkas, as her mother, Elizabeth C. Ware, had died the previous year (1898). During the course of these visits she became very great friends with Rudolf and his wife Frieda, and, on one occasion, Rudolf wrote to Mary L. Ware regarding his vision of how the Flowers should be displayed: \"I think pure white sheets will do best as bestow good light to the whole room. The models will look best either on pure white or a deep velvet-black.\" A preference Harvard evidently agreed with as, to this day, the botanical model are wired down to pure white boards within the original (albeit refurbished) cases.\nRegardless, Mary's second visit was around 1908 and the third on October 3, 1928. This second visit, made after Leopold's death, was related via a letter from Miss Ware to the second director of the Botanical Museum, Professor Oakes Ames. This letter appears to confirm the previous statement of Leopold's regarding his son; Miss Ware writes, \"One change in the character of his work and, consequently in the time necessary to accomplish results since I was last here, is very noteworthy. At that time...he bought most of his glass and was just beginning to make some, and his finish was in paint. Now he himself makes a large part of the glass and all the enamels, which he powders to use as paint.\" This missive to Professor Ames was published in January 9, 1961 by the Harvard University Herbaria - Botanical Museum Leaflets, Harvard University Vol. 19, No. 6 - under the title \"How Were The Glass Flowers Made?\" In addition to funding and visiting, Mary took a fairly active role in the project's progress, going so far as to personally unpack each model and making arrangements for Rudolph's fieldwork in the U.S. and Jamaica – the purpose of such trips being to gather and study various plant specimens before returning to the old style Bohemian lamp-working table at which he (and Leopold) worked.\n\nIt is also known that, in 1898, Mary Lee Ware was made a member of the Committee of Overseers on the Botanic Garden and the Botanic Museum - an addition that was met with pleasure by its members, including Professor Goodale. Indeed, Miss Ware's \"generous gifts of money and time for the advancement of the Department...[were] already known from the previous [Harvard] Annual Reports.\n\nUpon her death in 1937, Miss Ware left a will with assets worth one million dollars, $600,000 of which she bequeathed on charity and education. Of this vast sum, a full half of it (the largest single bequest in her will) was given to Harvard for completion and the upkeep of the Glass Flowers (as well as support Rudolf and Frieda).\n\nAlthough her mother remained in Boston, Mary Lee Ware clearly considered herself a New Hampshirite and apparently maintained the West Rindge family farm of her childhood. However, she is almost always called Miss Mary Lee Ware of Boston; very rarely is Rindge, NH mentioned. Reportedly (per the majority of sources) she was a seasonal resident of both Massachusetts and New Hampshire, spending the summers at the Ware Farm in Rindge while wintering in Boston with her mother. The Ware Farm was sold to Mary's father, Dr. Ware, by a Joseph Davis and Dorestos Armory for $3000 in 1868 – the place having 450 total acres, 21.5 dedicated to pasture land with another 56.5 for cultivation. Housing from two to forty people (mostly hired hands), the place was spared from a massive tornado that, on September 13, 1928, hit West Rindge. Enduring for twenty minutes, the disaster leveled the land and resulted in a $100,000 loss for the town. Thankfully, \"the beautiful Mary Lee Ware estate proper was not damaged,\" yet the estate workers' homes suffered via falling trees. Her estate manager, William S. Cleaves, fled his truck - to the relative safety of his home - in the nick of time, just before a falling tree crushed it. Years earlier, in 1887 and 1898 respectively, the farm saw the death of both Miss Ware's parents, Dr. Charles Eliot and Elizabeth C. Ware, making Mary the sole heiress of the estate. Later, in 1931, the Ware farm was the location of her cousin Cordelia E. Ware's wedding (specifically, Cordelia was Mary L. Ware's first cousin once removed on her father's side - the child of his first cousin John Ware).\n\nUnder Mary Lee Ware's strict but kind jurisdiction the farm blossomed, so to speak, with Miss Ware expanding it to a scale beyond that of what her parents enjoyed. Between 1898 (the year of her mother's death) and 1936 (a year before she died), she wired the entire farm for electricity, built gardens, all-season greenhouses, equipment barns, and a dairy and ice-house, purchased the neighboring Carr Farm and acreage (later the Ruth Morris Farm) which extends Ware Farm to the eastern shore of Pool Pond (approx. 500 acres), established a water system, and maintained a large-scale chicken operation on the acquired Carr Farm. The Farm was known to be \"an outstanding showplace with Jersey cows, poultry, a piggery, sheep, and Irish Settlers, all purebred...in 1911, her three foundation cows and a bull were imported from the Isle of Jersey.\" Her affection for the family and its many non-family residents is illustrated by the fact that, upon her death, Mary's will designated funds to keep the farm and her \"farm family\" together for one full year.\n\nIt is known that, by at least 1913, Miss Ware was a member of the New Hampshire Horticultural Society. The Grange Hall in Rindge was also named after her — the Mary L. Ware Grange Hall — doubtless in tribute to her many agricultural contributions; and, in addition, a Mary L. Ware Park was established in West Rindge. Sadly, in 1957, the Hall was bought and converted into the Ed’s Country Auction House by Mr. Edward Gilman \"Ed\" Stevens. Furthermore, in regards to Miss Ware's agrarian impact, the New Hampshire Farm Bureau's highest award was once the \"Mary Lee Ware Trophy\". Regarding her will, Mary left $25000 to her Boston and West Rindge employees. As to the Ware Farm itself, it was given to \"certain relatives and their children\" but eventually passed out of the family's hands.\n\nHowever, the Ware Farm remains in active use today. \"In 2002 Steve and Beverly Lindell purchased the property, resurrected the Ware Farm name, and have since tended and cherished the property in a manner complimentary to its heritage: original buildings are lovingly preserved; the flower gardens are spellbinding and constantly abuzz with pollinators; horses roam and graze the pastures; it's forest is managed in conservation through the Monadnock Conservancy. The farm presently consists of 230 acres, the majority on the east side of Woodbound Road, matching closely the original Ware Farm footprint.\" Today the farm is the home-base of \"HOOF&CLAW\" - a training and consultation center for dog handling and horsemanship - as well as the home of Blaine Capone, HOOF&CLAW's founder. Mr. Capone, in turn, continues to honor the legacy and philanthropic spirit of Miss Ware, insofar as her deep love of nature went, working with HOOF&CLAW to preserve the environment and inspire solutions to environmental issues.\n\nAs a Philanthropist of many interests, Mary Lee Ware contributed in other many and varied ways to the States of Massachusetts and New Hampshire. However, though \"well known locally in NH and Boston for charitable works, she often kept her donations anonymous from the public.\"\n\nAside from the Glass Flower enterprise, Mary Lee Ware supported Harvard University in other ways, donating four table cases to the Economic Room along with various sums of money for research and preservation purposes, as is evidenced in various Harvard Treasurer's Statements. In addition, she was one of early anthropologist Frederic Ward Putnam of the Peabody Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology many wealthy donors. Correspondences between her and Putnam reveals that Miss Ware provided a significant amount of money for America’s first preserved archaeological site in 1886: Serpent Mound in Ohio, along with Putnam’s other later archaeological endeavors.\n\nBetween 1928 and her death (1937), Miss Ware sent a short letter to John Templeton Coolidge regarding a set of spurs she found among her cousin Mr. Hall's books. Spurs which, she speculated, were worn by famed historian Francis Parkman during his expedition he \"The Oregon Trail\". The main body of the letter to Mr. Coolidge reads \"The spurs I found among Mr. Hall’s army outfit, labelled “F.P.[”] as you see, and we wondered if by any chance they could have been worn by Mr. Parkman on his “Oregon Trail” journey. It is of course only a guess, but certainly F.P. could only mean Mr. Parkman and Miss Lizzie might have given them to Mr. Hall as a keep-sake. If they were his, possibly your son Jack would like them. If not, you can of course do as you please with them.\" Miss Ware's cousin, this Mr. Hall, is presumed to be Henry Ware Hall seeing as he shared an uncle with Francis Parkman: \"Edward Brooks Hall—the same Hall who had married Mary Lee Ware’s aunt Harriet. So Henry, Francis, and Mary were all first cousins.\" Mary Lee Ware sent the letter to Mr. Coolidge because he was Parkman’s son-in-law. Said letter was recently obtained by the Massachusetts Historical Society.\n\nMary's interest in history and cultural artifacts is further noted by the fact that the first annual meeting of the Society for the Preservation of New England Antiquities was held at her 41 Brimmer Street Boston home.\n\nMary L. Ware did at least some work with the Christian Register, helping in the selection of letters in a 1917 edition. Furthermore, from at least 1906 to 1913 she was a member of the Women's Christian Temperance Union, as known by a pair of letters she exchanged during those respective years to Anne Whitney, a reputable Massachusetts poet and sculptor.\n\nMiss Ware attended the first annual meeting of the Woman's National Farm & Garden Association's New England Branch in Boston, and was elected to the position of \"Chairman Executive Committee.\"\n\nMary was a corporate member of the Massachusetts School for Idiotic and Feeble-Minded Youth, along with her cousins Charles E. and Harriet P. Ware of Fitchburg and (possible relative) Mrs. Mary G. Ware of Lancaster.\n\nMary Lee Ware was an officer in the Massachusetts Forestry Association from at least 1906 to 1915, occupying such roles as one of many Vice-Presidents, a member of the Executive Committee along with Ways and Means as well as being the Chairman of the Membership and Publications Committee. As in so many of her roles she was, curiously and again, known as \"Mary Lee Ware of Boston,\" though this could easily be due to her seemingly preferred Rindge residence being outside of Massachusetts.\n\nSimilarly showing her love of the natural world, in 1901–1902 Mary Lee Ware played a pivotal role in the creation of the New Hampshire Rhododendron State Park when, in 1901, subsequent owner Levi Fuller planned to \"lumber off\" the property and would have if not for Mary, who bought it in 1902. Giving it to the Appalachian Mountain Club (AMC) a year later, she signed the deal on the condition that the woodland \"...be held as a reservation properly protected and open to the public...forever.\" The contract also barred cutting down any trees or picking any rhododendron, a promise that has been broken only once due to the 1938 hurricane. The donated land is called \"Old Patch Place,\" remodeled by the AMC as a hostel/clubhouse but has since (1946) come under the protection of the N.H. Division of Parks and Recreation — the system's only designated botanical park. The \"Old Patch Place\" cottage near the park entrance was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1980.\n\nMiss Ware was a unit chairwoman of the Women's Committee and Council of National Defense in the Granite State, working with the Federal Food Administrator of New Hampshire.\n\nAlso, the Rindge Historical Society Museum's collection of artifacts \"began with the efforts of Mary Lee Ware...a seasonal resident of Rindge. Ms. Ware, around the turn of the twentieth century, took it upon herself to solicit donations of historical items from the town’s residents.\" This collection, today located near the center of Rindge, was once housed at the Ingalls Memorial Library (which would itself later benefit from Mary's generosity). Indeed, in the very first issue of the Rindge Community Newsletter (a volunteer effort by the Rindge Chamber of Commerce), Mary L. Ware was credited with the founding of the Rindge Museum, stating that she asked for the historical donations per \"a large horse-drawn wagon and a few of her hired men.\"\n\nThe circumstances of Mary Lee Ware's death - which took place a few months after the Glass Flowers enterprise ended - is described in a letter addressed to Professor Oakes Ames. On January 5 \"the poor old lady had a heavy stroke which left her almost completely paralyzed. There seemed to be no question whatever but that she could not possibly recover and, four days later, she had another shock which, thank God, carried her peacefully off.\" Having died at her 41 Brimmer Street Boston home at the age of 79, Miss Ware was buried next to her parents at Mt. Auburn Cemetery, her funeral taking place on January 12 at King's Chapel and officiated over by Reverends John and Palfrey Perkins with many notable personages in attendance, including Francis Goodale (Prof. Goodale's son). Acting as an usher at the funeral was a child named Charles E. Ware 3rd, presumably the son of her cousin Charles Eliot Ware of Fitchburg of whom her will designated a favorable sum. Indeed, another letter to Professor Ames states that a letter of condolence should be sent to Charles E. Ware of Fitchburg, furthering the appearance that the two cousins were close. Miss Mary L. Ware's death was, in addition, reportedly taken hard by Rudolf Blaschka, whose own health was beginning to fail (as detailed in another letter to Professor Ames by Mr. Louis C. Bierweiler, former assistant to Professor Louis Agassiz). In addition, a later letter from a solicitor to the Soviet authorities details a pension that Mary Lee Ware set for Rudolf and which continued to Frieda until 1941 - after which Mrs. Blaschka had no income at all.\n\nIt is known that, upon death, Mary's will detailed the donation of her taxidermied bird and animal collection to the Ingalls Memorial Library of Rindge — \"The collection native to this region was donated through the generosity and under the will of Mary Lee Ware. It is quite a wonderful collection and many Rindge residents know of its existence because of school visits.\" She also left them $5000 and, furthermore, was one of the Trustees of and partly responsible for writing the Annual Report of the Library, as she was a signatory of said Report in 1917; this also made her one of the Officers of the Town of Rindge. At some point in life Mary Lee Ware inherited Robert Salmon's \"The British Fleet Forming a Line off Algiers\" painting from her father, Dr. Charles Eliot Ware - though how he acquired it is not known. She bequeathed the painting in 1937 (presumably after her death and per her will) to the Museum of Fine Arts (MFA) in Boston, Massachusetts. Additionally, Miss Ware's will detailed sizable donations to organizations such as the Massachusetts General Hospital, Kentucky's Berea College, and the American Unitarian Association. In addition,\n\nThe independent wealth of Mary L. Ware and her family was owed to the fact that her mother, Elizabeth C. Ware, was a descendant of the wealthy Salem Cabots - a merchant family dating back to the early 1700s.\n\nIn 1900 Miss Ware began a subscription to the Fund for the Encouragement of Mexican and Central American Research, as recorded in a Harvard University Annual Report.\n\nThe rug on the floor of the Edward Hall Library in the First Parish in Cambridge was \"given in memory of Miss Mary Lee Ware, a first cousin of Rev. Edward Hall,\" who presided as Minister from 1882 to 1893.\n\nMary Lee Ware reportedly never owned an automobile - apparently traveling to and from Boston via the train, and by horse and buggy when in Rindge.\n\nMary's relationship with her brother, Charles Ware Jr., is not known. It is known, though, that Charles Jr. also went to Harvard in the 1870s and lived in Boston for a while – marrying in 1881 – before moving to Newton. Why Mary and her mother never involved him (and his wife) in the Glass Flowers enterprise is unknown.\n\n"}
{"id": "31209381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31209381", "title": "Medicine Unboxed", "text": "Medicine Unboxed\n\nMedicine Unboxed is a project arising from a view that good medicine demands more than scientific and technical expertise, and that it necessitates ethical judgment, an understanding of human experience, empathy, professionalism and wisdom.\n\nMedicine Unboxed is a not-for-profit organisation that has held eight international conferences (Unboxing Medicine, 2009; Stories, Language and Medicine, 2010; Medicine and Values, 2011; Belief, 2012; Voice, 2013; Frontiers, 2014; Mortality, 2015; Wonder, 2016; MAPS, 2017) in Cheltenham, UK. The aim of Medicine Unboxed is to explore \"understanding medicine through the arts and humanities\", and engage the public and front-line National Health Service staff with a view of medicine that is infused and elaborated by the humanities, with a view to promoting dialogue around the goals and values of medicine within society. Contributors to the conferences include artists, writers, the clergy, poets, philosophers, lawyers, linguists, musicians, theatre, ethicists, academics and doctors. \n\nMedicine Unboxed is curated by Dr. Sam Guglani, Consultant Oncologist at Gloucestershire Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, that supports the organisation along with the Wellcome Foundation. The Creative Director is Peter Thomas. Its advisors are Dr. Sean Elyan and Dame Janet Trotter and its patrons are Jo Shapcott and Raymond Tallis. \n\nMedicine Unboxed has been widely reported in the medical press including \"The Guardian\",\"The Lancet\", The British Medical Journal Online and Lapidus. \n\nFollowing a move to a larger venue at the Parabola Arts Centre, Cheltenham, the third event in the Medicine Unboxed series was Medicine and Values, which took place on 15 October 2011 and included contributions by Lionel Shriver, Jo Shapcott, Revd. John Bell, Raymond Tallis, John Carey, Paul Bailey, Michael Arditti, Havi Carel and Tom Isaacs (of The Cure Parkinson's Trust). \n\nIn 2012, the Medicine Unboxed theme was Belief. Contributors included Sebastian Faulks, John Burnside, Marius Brill, Bryan Appleyard, Rupert Sheldrake, Tim Parks, Richard Holloway, Iona Heath, Matthew Flinders, Richard Horton, Clare Short, Darian Leader, Raymond Tallis, Jo Shapcott, Jan Royall, Jane Macnaughton, Adam Kay, Charles Fernyhough and Rhidian Brook. Medicine Unboxed 2012: belief took place on November 24-25, 2012 at the Parabola Arts Centre in Cheltenham. \n\nIn 2013, the theme of Medicine Unboxed was Voice, and the event took place on 23-24 November 2013. Speakers included: Andrew Motion, Jocelyn Pook, Roger Kneebone, Eleanor Longden, Fi Glover, Jackie Kay, Bobby Baker, Melanie Pappenheim, Charlotte Blease, Deborah Bowman, Rebecca Askew, Eduardo Miranda, Allyson Pollock, Jo Shapcott, Rhys Morgan, Julian Baggini, Richard Bentall, Charles Fernyhough, Roger Taylor, Bob Heath, Birmingham Medical School Choir and Raymond Tallis. \n\nIn 2014, Medicine Unboxed explored Frontiers. The event took place on 22-23 November 2014 at the Parabola Arts Centre in Cheltenham. Those appearing included Camilla Batmenjelidgh, Sophie de Oliveira Barata, Richard Horton, Philip Gross, Christopher Potter, William Fiennes, Jackie Kay, Iain McGilchrist, Daljit Nagra, Sarah Moss, Gabriel Weston, Joanna Bourke, Melanie Pappenheim, Philip Hoare, Tim Dee, Yasmin Gunaratnam, Susan Aldworth, Bob Heath, Iona Heath, Raymond Tallis, Jo Shapcott, Deborah Bowman, Tom de Freston and Roger Kneebone.\n\nIn 2015, Medicine Unboxed explored Mortality. The event took place on 21-22 November 2015 at the Parabola Arts Centre in Cheltenham. Those appearing included Nick Lane, Peter Stanford, Jay Carver, Henry Marsh, Allan Kellehear, Marion Coutts, Jane Draycott, Rebecca Goss, Jo Shapcott, Dave Goulson, Sue Black, Raymond Tallis, Salley Vickers, Tom de Freston, Rhidian Brook, Michael Symmons Roberts, Julian Baggini, Bob Heath, Katie Sidle, Peter Thomas, Rob George, Iona Heath, Paul McMaster, Sean Elyan, Ann Wroe and Sam Guglani.\n\nIn 2014, Medicine Unboxed awarded the inaugural Medicine Unboxed Creative Prize a single prize of £10,000 for a creative work that illuminates the relationship between the arts and medicine. The winner was poet Tiffany Atkinson for her series of poems called 'Dolorimeter'. The prize was sponsored by D&D Leasing. In 2015, The Medicine Unboxed Creative Prize was won by French photographer Christian Berthelot for his 'CESAR' series of images taken immediately after the birth of babies born by cesarean section. The prize was sponsored by D&D Leasing UK and Bibby Leasing. \n\nIn 2016, the eighth in the Medicine Unboxed series of events explored the theme of wonder on 19-20 November 2016. Speakers include Roger Penrose, Michel Faber, Gavin Francis, James Rhodes, David Almond, Lavinia Greenlaw, Gaia Vince, Max Porter, Vahni Capildeo, Lynsey Hanley, Helen Pearson, Caspar Henderson, Jon Copley, David Nicholl, Joe May, Robert Beckford, Paul Fletcher, Phil Hammond and Anil Seth.\n\nIn 2017 the ninth conference in the series is themed Maps. Speakers include Liz Berry, Sarah Perry, Denise Riley, Sarah Wheeler, Lara Pawson , Kate Clanchy, Mona Arshi , Eimar McBride, David Mitchell, Philip Marsden, Danny Dorling, Laurence Rees, Tim Dee, Mark O’Connell, Caspar Henderson, Richard Horton, Sheldon Thomas and David Nott.\n\nIn 2018 the tenth conference in the series will be Love.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6334308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6334308", "title": "Mexico Link", "text": "Mexico Link\n\nThe Ulverston Victoria High School Mexico Link is a link between Ulverston Victoria High School (Cumbria, England) and Secundaria Tecnica #44 Francisco Villa (Mexico City). The link was founded in 2001 by the British Council in Mexico City with a theme of Human Rights and Citizenship.\n\nStudents and teachers on both sides of the Atlantic meet regularly to discuss the issues affecting their countries. There have been four major exchange visits between Ulverston and Mexico City and Mexico City and Ulverston. There have also been smaller visits involving small groups of teachers and students.\n\nThe linking originated in January 2001 when the British Council in Mexico City began to develop an Interactive Citizenship and Human Rights Project. The aim was to link 20 Secondary Technical Schools in Mexico City with 20 secondary schools in UK.\n\nThe UVHS Philosophy Club had begun in spring 2001 and it was looking to develop a link with a South American country where P4C (Philosophy for Children) was strong. In September 2001, the UVHS Philosophy Club was invited to join a project initiated by the British Council and it soon began contact with Mexico.\n\nThe UVHS – Secundaria Tecnica #44 Link is now well recognised as being a successful and well-sustained school linking project. This has happened over the past 4 years due to the commitment of students, parents and teachers involved in the linking. Case studies about our link have been used in several British Council and DFES documents. It has been featured in the local media and in the Times Educational Supplement. Students and teachers regularly make presentations and offer workshops. \n\nThe linking is now being embedded into curriculum of both schools. This development work forms the heart of the British Council Curriculum Development Award. History, Geography, Belief Philosophy and Ethics, Citizenship and Maths are currently directly involved.\n\nGreat use is made of the Philosophy for Children technique which provides a democratic community for discussions to take place in.\n\nCommunication between the two schools is mainly by email. Students and staff contribute to the link website and to the biannual newsletter \"The Link\" which is distributed to local supporters.\n\n"}
{"id": "13505359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13505359", "title": "Mississippi Association of Independent Schools", "text": "Mississippi Association of Independent Schools\n\nThe Mississippi Association of Independent Schools (MAIS) is a consortium of schools in Mississippi, Louisiana and Arkansas. It is responsible for accreditation of its member private schools as well as governing athletic competition for its member schools.\n\nThe organization also operates two other organizations, the Mississippi Association of Independent Schools Educational Association and the Mississippi Association of Independent Schools Coaches Association.\n\nThen named the Mississippi Private School Association, it was founded in 1968 as an accrediting agency for segregation academies. Many of those schools no longer exist and many today have minorities enrolled and are accredited by other bodies such as the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools.\n\nIn July 2009, the organization changed its name to the Mississippi Association of Independent Schools.\n\nAccreditation by a private agency such as the MAIS gives schools flexibility, for example choice of menus and curriculum. Schools may reject federal Common Core State standards. Schools not complying with Blaine Amendment provisions may also forego state aid available to private schools.\n\nHistorian Joseph Crespino has stated that members of the White Citizens' Council \"doubtless\" played a role in the founding of the Association. Sociologist Kenneth Andrews says that the MPSA built \"on the earlier foundation of the Citizens' Council and the Council School Foundation.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "37394817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37394817", "title": "Open University of West Africa", "text": "Open University of West Africa\n\nOpen University of West Africa (OUWA) was founded in Ghana November 2011 by John Roberts and Patrick Steele. With the goal to break the poverty cycle in West Africa through online education, John Roberts and his co-founder were inspired by a simple but contradictory observation: at the moment higher education penetration in Africa was very low, many of the best universities around the world were beginning to put their courses online through platforms like Coursera, edX, Udacity etc.\n\nThe two founders became driven by the idea of harnessing this “perfect storm” of free Open Educational Resources (OER), cheaper access to mobile technology, and the profound need to spur development through higher-ed in West African countries. \nLocated in Ghana, Open University of West Africa (OUWA) provided extremely low-cost education (US$10/year), while also encouraging each student to become an agent of change in this fight. In West Africa, less than 10% of students are enrolled in an institution of higher education, and extreme poverty is a life-threatening reality for many. Despite some efforts by West African governments to expand educational opportunities, there are no tangible improvements in the field of education in this region of Africa. Simple efforts to increase the number of people enrolled in schools have not solved the problem. Without accessibility to quality higher-ed, there is little hope of students becoming professionals such as business owners, doctors and government officials. Without these industry and community leaders, economic development is almost impossible.\n\nOpen University of West Africa attracted numerous potential students. After opening an ‘internet café of education’ in Accra, Ghana, OUWA began with more than 40 students attending the courses. A year and a half into launch, OUWA had around 200 students. This represented the largest concentration of students accessing MOOCs in Sub-Saharan African. The most promising aspect of the small “campus” is that it allowed for the like-minded students, to collaborate with their peers, and they began forming groups together to start venture businesses. This very natural student-led idea became an essential pivot-point for the co-founders leading to the “Educate– Incubate– Invest” business model that was to become the launching point for the next phase of this pioneering “new school”.\n\n\nSliceBiz became one of the most visible start-ups to be launched by OUWA co-founders. One of the largest start-up competitions on the continent, Apps for Africa, selected them to be given $10,000 funding and travel to New York for the opening of NYSE. With the momentum created by these early innovators, Open University of West Africa, along with SliceBiz, spearheaded the creation of HUB Accra, a co-working space devoted solely to helping African-led businesses flourish. A worldwide network of “innovation hubs”, Impact Hub quickly adopted “Impact Hub Accra” as its way to partner in the accelerating startup ecosystem in Accra. They have a space for startups, freelancers, makers, creatives or established businesses looking for a flexible and inspiring space. As a convener in the startup ecosystem, Impact Hub Accra also curates special events and experiences for and with different stakeholders. This hub is a product of the first major pivot that Open University of West Africa undertook.\n\nWith a clear vision to reduce and break the cycle of poverty, OUWA contributed to the flourishing of affordable access to quality education not only in the capital city Accra in Ghana. There were learning places in Kumasi and serious attempts to scale to Gambia, Mali, and Burkina. In Gambia, OUWA ran a successful teacher training program with over 20 primary school teachers. In Burkina and Mali, the university elaborated an English as a Foreign Language (EFL) curriculum. The curriculum was designed in such a way that it would truly benefit those who wanted to learn English for academic purposes. In addition to the EFL curriculum program, headways were made in the conception of a physician Assistant program.\n\nWhile pursuing an OpenIDEO Challenge—an international design and consulting firm based in California—OUWA's next evolution came in the unique form of how to provide education to refugees and improve learning opportunities in refugee camps.\n\nThe refugee camps’ program was undertaken as the first mobile pilot. It was carried out in two refugee camps in the Western region of Ghana: Ampain and Krisan. For this pilot, OUWA partnered with École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne (EPFL) a Swiss federal institute revered in entrepreneurship. About 100 refugees, from young to old, participated into the program. Open University of West Africa distributed smartphones pre-loaded with entrepreneurship courses and educational tools tailored to people living in these camps.\n\nThis pivot to mobile education in poorer regions turned out to be a major turning point for Open University of West Africa.\n\nKey Learning points discovered while conducting the pilot cleared a new path forward. The pilot highlighted that there was a unique leverage point beyond providing set curriculum designed to usher a student through the standard institutional trajectory. After 4 years of leading OUWA, John Roberts understood that “what’s going to empower the masses is if you can help the person who is selling onions on the side of the road to diversify their products or figure out a value add, they potentially start earning four to five times as much income. The secondary effects from a development perspective can be truly overwhelming. Imagine someone earning a dollar a day suddenly able to earn 4 dollars a day, then they can go to a clinic and access services.” There is immediate benefit when improving the naturally occurring climate of entrepreneurship.\n\nWith the new understanding that scaling is much easier and more effective, in terms of reaching more underprivileged people, through mobile platforms, OUWA gave birth to InvestED. Whereas OUWA's goal was to provide affordable accredited education, InvestED will focus on non-accredited training and lifelong learning. OUWA existed with a mission to bring great education to those who lacked access and leveraged technology by being the last mile delivery system for open educational resources. Although OUWA has recently ceased operations, what was learned during the four years of blazing new trails has fueled the founding of InvestED: an android-based app “to educate struggling entrepreneurs towards financial stability via cutting-edge mobile technology.”\n\n"}
{"id": "656306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=656306", "title": "Postgraduate diploma", "text": "Postgraduate diploma\n\nA postgraduate diploma (PgD, PgDip, PGDip, PG Dip., PGD, Dipl. PG, PDE) is a postgraduate qualification awarded after a university degree. It can be contrasted with a graduate diploma. Countries that award postgraduate diplomas include but are not limited to Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Germany, Hong Kong, Jamaica, Spain, South Africa, India, Ireland, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Nigeria, Republic of Panama the Philippines, Portugal, Russia, Pakistan, Poland, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Sweden, the United Kingdom, Sri Lanka and Trinidad and Tobago. Level of education and recognition differ per issuing country.\n\nAustralian equivalent of post graduate diploma is called Graduate Diploma (GDip or GradDip). AQF (Australian Qualifications Framework) level of the graduate diploma is eight. New Zealand universities offer postgraduate diplomas (PostGradDip). NZQA level of post graduate diploma is also eight . A postgraduate diploma (or Australian graduate diploma) indicates master's-level studies. It typically constitutes as the first year of a two-year master's degree. A university degree is required, although in some rare cases an advanced diploma is sufficient.\n\nIn Canada, a postgraduate certificate program consists of two to three semesters, which can be completed in less than one year in some instances. A University's degree or a master's degree is required to be accepted in this type of program. It offers the advantage of not requiring to write a thesis and to focus on a concise subject. It is recommended for students wishing to enhance their professional skills as it concentrates on a more practical application in order to enter the labor market. Depending on the province, the title can vary: Post-Graduate Diploma, Post-Graduate Certification, Post-Baccalaureate or D.E.S.S. (in the Province of Quebec). See links to the Canadian education system, as the various regions can be quite different.\n\nIn India, there are a number of institutes and universities offering postgraduate diploma programs (PG Diploma). These post-graduate diploma programs are mainly one-year programs that are divided into two to four semesters, depending on hands-on training, field work, and credit requirements. These are master's level programs that only cover the essentials. These programs are mainly targeted to offer professional education and training to the candidates for the better employment opportunity and industry readiness. It is designed to provide in-depth exposure to concepts, scientific principles, implementation methodology of new approaches. Post-graduate diplomas in Management, Post-graduate diploma in Banking & Finance, Remote Sensing & GIS, Robotics, Industrial Maintenance Engineering and Advanced Manufacturing Technology, are examples of courses offered in India. Certain institutes provide postgraduate diploma programs which satisfies the credit requirement for a master's program with increased number of lower credit courses for 2 years, this programs are provisionally considered equivalent to a master's level. Postgraduate diploma programs are meant for those with a bachelor's degree to gain an advanced technical grasp and to those with a master's degree to enhance their interdisciplinary/translation grasp.\n\nCommonly referred to as PgD, the postgraduate diploma (Gaeilge: \"Dioplóma Iarchéime\") has been awarded by the Higher Education and Training Awards Council (also known as QQI, Quality Qualifications Ireland, Gaeilge: \"Dearbhú Cáilíochta agus Cáilíochtaí Éireann\"), since June 2005 in institutions associated with and accredited by the council. This postgraduate qualification is awarded for a wide range of programmes in the sciences, engineering, and humanities, among others. Entry requirement is a Level 8 Honours Degree in line with EQF standards, including Bachelor's degree or vocational degrees, such as the \"Meister\" or in Germany. Most institutions operate under the Recognition of Prior Experiential Learning (RPEL) scheme meaning applicants who do not meet the normal academic requirements may be considered based on publications, relevant work or research experience, which will usually involve an assessment centre or interview process. In Ireland, the vast majority of postgraduate diplomas require the same duration and level of studies as a Master's degree, namely EQF Level 9, yet additional coursework or an independent research project replace the thesis. While progression to doctoral study is only possible at selected universities in Ireland, the Irish postgraduate diploma is widely accepted for entry to EQF Level 8 doctoral degree's in most countries.\n\nIn Portugal a postgraduate diploma (in Portuguese \"Pós-graduação\") can be awarded under two circumstances: 1) as part of an independent program of studies; 2) after the completion of the first year of study in a masters program.\n\nThe postgraduate diploma is a postgraduate academic qualification taken after a bachelor's degree. It is usually awarded by a university or a graduate school. It usually takes two or more study terms to complete, a wide variety of courses are offered. It is also possible for graduate diploma holders to progress to a master's degree. Only postgraduate diplomas that are registered with the Ministry of Education (Singapore) are recognised by the industry.\n\nThe postgraduate diploma (PgDip) is awarded by a variety of Spain universities and follows the European Credit Transfer and Accumulation System (ECTS) grading system.\n\nFor example, Pablo de Olavide University offers an English-language PgDip in the Integral Protection of Human Rights Defenders and Social Activists in cooperation with Protection International. The University of the Basque Country (UPV/EHU) offers an English-language PgDip in International Election Observation and Electoral Assistance, run in cooperation with many organisations in the field of election monitoring, such as The Carter Center, Electoral Reform International Services (ERIS), International Foundation for Electoral Systems (IFES), National Democratic Institute (NDI), the Organization of American States (OAS) and the OSCE Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights (ODIHR).\n\nIn Sri Lanka, a postgraduate diploma is a postgraduate academic qualification taken after a bachelor's degree.\n\nThere are a vast number of postgraduate diplomas available in England and Wales. This could be a vocational course studied after an academic degree, such as the Legal Practice Course or the Bar Vocational Course; the resulting diplomas allow the student to enter legal training, relevant to either the solicitor or barrister professions, respectively. Postgraduate diplomas allow a graduate student to study a more advanced programme than at the bachelor's level. It is contrasted with a graduate diploma, where a student studies a new academic subject at degree level, but in a short space of time, such as the Graduate Diploma in Law (also known as the Common Professional Exam), which allows a postgraduate student to study the seven foundation subjects of a three-year undergraduate law degree, in a period of nine months. The City and Guilds of London Institute awards a post graduate diploma 9210 in engineering subjects that are endorsed by the professional engineering institutions, and count toward qualifying as a Chartered Engineer.\n\nPostgraduate diplomas are considered by the National Qualification Framework (NQF) to be at a comparable level to a master's degree, however, they require fewer study credits to achieve (120 Credits) when compared to a full master's degree (180 credits). They are typically classified into Distinction, Merit, and Pass, similar to most master's courses. Many schools of architecture commonly operate a 2-year postgraduate diploma course providing RIBA part 2 education in this fashion.\n\nA postgraduate diploma is commonly awarded to students who have completed the master's programme and continuing a one-year advanced course similar to the first year of a PhD program.\n\nA postgraduate diploma typically represents 120 credits of postgraduate courses (whereas a full master's degree is usually 180 credits). Postgraduate diplomas are usually abbreviated as PGDip, PG Dip, PgD, PgDip, and, similar to a PgCert, diploma holders are permitted to use 'PgDip' or 'PgD' as a post-nominal, which is usually listed after all other academic degrees in ascending order, but before any professional qualifications.\n"}
{"id": "238231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=238231", "title": "Prom", "text": "Prom\n\nIn the United States, a promenade dance, most commonly called a prom, is a semi-formal (black tie) dance or gathering of high school students. This event is typically held near the end of the senior year (the last year of high school). Proms figure greatly in popular culture and are major events among high school students. High school juniors attending the prom may call it \"junior prom\" while high-school seniors may call it \"senior prom\". In practice, this event may be a combined junior/senior dance.\n\nAt a prom, a \"prom king\" and a \"prom queen\" may be revealed. These are honorary titles awarded to students elected in a school-wide vote prior to the prom, and seniors are usually awarded these titles. Other students may be honored with inclusion in a \"prom court\". The selection method for a prom court is similar to that of homecoming queen/princess, king, and court. Inclusion in a prom court may be a reflection of popularity of those students elected and their level of participation in school activities, such as clubs or sports.\nThe prom queen and prom king may be given crowns to wear. Members of the prom court may be given sashes to wear and photographed together.\n\nSimilar events take place in many other parts of the world. In Australia and New Zealand, the terms school formal, and ball are most commonly used for occasions equivalent to the American prom, and the event is usually held for students in senior years, although the bestowing of the regal titles rarely, if ever, occurs. Many schools hold a formal graduation ball for finishing students at the end of the year in place of or as well as a formal. In Ireland a \"debutante ball\" or debs may also be held. In Poland high schools organize a \"studniówka\". The term \"prom\" is becoming more common in the UK and Canada because of the influence of American films and television shows.\n\nIn the early days of high school proms, the nighttime dance served a function similar to a debutante ball. Early proms were times of firsts: the first adult social event for teenagers; the first time taking the family car out after dark; the first real dress-up affair; and so forth. Proms also served as a heavily documented occasion, similar to a milestone event such as first communion or a wedding, in which the participants were taking an important step into a new stage in their lives. In earlier days, the prom may have also served as an announcement of engagement for the “best couple” after the prom court had been crowned and recognized.\n\nWhile high school yearbooks did not start covering proms and including prom pictures until the 1930s and 1940s, historians, including Meghan Bretz, believe proms may have existed at colleges as early as the late 19th century. The journal of a male student at Amherst College in 1894 recounts an invitation and trip to an early prom at neighboring Smith College for women. The word prom at that time may just have been a fancy description for an ordinary junior or senior class dance, but prom soon took on larger-than-life meaning for high school students.\n\nProms worked their way down incrementally from college gatherings to high school extravaganzas. In the early 20th century, prom was a simple tea dance where high school seniors wore their Sunday best. In the 1920s and 1930s, prom expanded into an annual class banquet where students wore party clothes and danced afterwards. According to Jackie Blount, during the McCarthy era \"schools became implemented curricula intended to keep youth sexually straight. In effect, schools became fundamentally important agencies in the nationwide campaign to fight homosexuality.\" This attitude further promoted heteronormative practices such as naming a prom king and prom queen, requiring strict gender conformity in dress, etc.\n\nAs Americans gained more money and leisure time in the 1950s, proms became more extravagant and elaborate, bearing similarity to today’s proms. The high school gym may have been an acceptable setting for sophomore dances (soph hop), but junior prom and senior balls gradually moved to hotel ballrooms and country clubs. Competition blossomed, as teens strove to have the best dress, the best mode of transportation, and the best looking date. Competition for the prom court also intensified, as the designation of “prom queen” became an important distinction of popularity. In a way, prom became the pinnacle event of a high school student’s life, the ultimate dress rehearsal for a wedding.\n\nToday, prom continues to be a notable event in the social climate of high schools. Popular movies and novels attest to the importance of prom themes, prom dates, and prom queens. In some areas, the traditions of prom are not as rigid as they used to be, with some areas allowing individuals or groups to attend instead of couples. In 1975 U.S. First Daughter Susan Ford held her prom in the East Room of the White House.\n\nUsage of the term \"prom\" is becoming more common and appears to be a colloquial and regional practice. Formal English usage suggests \"prom\" is a noun and should be preceded by an article although it often is not in practice.\n\n\"Prom\" is a shortened version of promenade.\n\n\"Promposal\" is a portmanteau of \"prom\" and \"proposal\", describing the (sometimes elaborate) act of asking someone to be the requester's prom date.\n\nBoys usually dress in black or white formal wear, regardless of the time of the event, sometimes paired with ties or bow ties with vests, in some cases in colors matching their date’s dress.\n\nGirls wear traditional ladies' dresses or evening gowns and adorn themselves with ladies’ jewelry such as earrings and a necklace. Traditionally girls wear perfume, and make-up such as eyeshadow, lipstick and blush. Girls also wear a corsage, given to them by their dates, and girls give boys matching boutonnières to be worn on their lapels. Some couples want to match their dates dress color to their tie or suit.\n\nProm attendees may be limited by their schools to be juniors or seniors and guests under age 21. Before prom, girls typically get their hair styled, often in groups as a social activity at a salon. Prom couples then gather at a park, garden, or their own and their dates’ houses for single and/or group photographs. Prom attendees may rent limousines or party buses to transport groups of friends from their homes to the prom venue: a banquet hall or school gymnasium. Some schools host their proms at hotel ballrooms or other venues where weddings typically take place. The dance itself may have a band or DJ. At prom, a meal may be served. The cost of prom in the United States averaged $1078 per family in 2012 and $1139 in 2013.\n\nSome high schools allow only the graduating class (\"seniors\") to have a prom. Some schools also allow grade 11 (\"juniors\") to have a prom, and select high schools even have proms for freshmen and sophomores. In some cases there is a combined Junior/Senior prom. Some American high schools and colleges that do not allow school-sponsored dances will host a junior/senior prom as a banquet instead of a dance. Typically, students still dress in formal attire and attend as couples. More and more colleges are hosting proms in recent years, usually as fundraisers for campus organizations such as ballroom dance groups, fraternities/sororities, or other organizations. In recent years, American teens have started asking celebrities or famous models to their proms.\n\nAfter the prom, parents or a community may host a \"prom after-party\" or \"afterglow\" or \"post-prom\" at a restaurant, entertainment venue, or a student’s home. Other traditions often include trips to nearby attractions, such as amusement parks, regional or local parks, or family or rented vacation houses. Some of these post-prom events are chaperoned and some are unsupervised. Many post-proms (after-prom events) are at the school, and involve bringing entertainment such as interactive games, artists, and other entertainers to the school.\n\nIn the United Kingdom prior to the 2000s, many secondary schools would hold events such as a \"summer ball\" to celebrate the end of term or a \"leavers ball\" to celebrate the end of schooling, but usually these did not have the cultural or social significance of US-style proms.\n\nIn the 1970s, \"school discos\" had been another tradition of semi-formal events being held at various times of the year, in particular during the Christmas period, although not all secondary schools would allow such events or \"do's\".\n\nDuring the 2000s, school proms became common at UK schools, apparently due to the influence of US TV shows. The \"Daily Telegraph\" reported in 2012 that:\n\nSchools in England, Wales, and Northern Ireland predominantly hold their prom, or \"school formal\", at the end of secondary education in year 11 (ages 15/16) \"and\" the end of sixth form (aged 18), for those who have continued school.\n\nIn Scotland, it is usually only held at the end of S6 (ages 17/18) because all high schools in Scotland have pupils up to age 18 years, whereas elsewhere in the UK many students have to go to college to study for A-Levels. Proms are usually held in June, after the end of year exams. At Scottish formal events, boys usually wear kilts (kilts are also often seen in the other Celtic regions) and Highland dress outfitters often sell out in an area around this time of year due to demand from school events. Also in Scotland it is customary for traditional Scottish country dancing (part of the curriculum of all secondary schools) to be included.\n\nIn Egypt, private schools have proms similar to ones held in the United States but with slight differences. The prom is held for a maximum of 3 hours, where teachers attend and enjoy some time with their students. Then there is the \"after-prom\", where no teachers or parents are allowed, during that time, the real party begins with all the students dancing and enjoying their time. The after prom can continue to 4 am and 5 am. There is no mingling of males and females due to adherence to the Islamic codes.\n\nIn South Africa, the equivalent of the American prom is the Matric Dance, taking place during the matriculation (i.e., final) year of high school (12th grade). It takes place towards the end of the third quarter, shortly before the spring break, after which the matriculation examinations commence. It usually takes the form of a formal dinner and dance. In most schools, the 11th grade class is responsible for arranging the event. Sometimes teachers and parents also attend.\n\nThe Matric Dance has become one of the most popular occasions on the South African social calendar, but not without much controversy for its cost that, it is said, \"could be as much as some people’s weddings\". The magazine saying this elaborates: \"Many parents will be torn between wanting to spoil their youngsters and wanting to resist the extravagance of handing over thousands of rands for a dress or suit that will probably only be worn once.\"\n\nIn Kenya, Ethiopia, Nigeria, Uganda, Ghana, and Tanzania most private schools with expatriates have proms or “end of year socials.”\n\nIn Zambia, private schools have a \"leavers' dance/dinner\" that is planned out by the grade 11 class and takes place on the Saturday after the Friday of their graduation ceremony. The dance is planned for the grade 12 class as well as the upper sixth form class and is normally done the 1st Friday after both of the classes are done writing their A Level and IGCSE examinations. The dinner begins at 7pm and the grade 11 class pose as the servers as well as the entertainment throughout the duration of the dinner. The dinner ends at midnight and is followed by the \"after party\" which is celebrated at another venue (usually a club) with no parents and no teachers. Costs for renting out the venue are covered by selling tickets to outsiders and the party is usually planned by the graduating classes themselves.\n\nIn Afghanistan there is a lunch party organized by the graduating students and called \"graduation party.\" This is mostly seen in the university level graduation after the 16th class with a bachelor's degree, this day all the University seniors, faculty members and professors are invited as honors. There is no mingling of males and females due to strict adherence to the Islamic codes.\n\nIn Hong Kong, prom culture is inherited from the western countries and is generally called ball, such as Christmas Ball. This usually takes place during Christmas and summer break. This is more popular in the secondary education stage rather than in universities. Schools, apart from international schools, holding proms are usually single-sex school where normally the student unions in the schools will cooperate each other in organizing the event. In recent years, more and more individual unions got united and formed different student unions associations so as to organize large-scale events including large joint-school proms. Except those proms within the academic field, there are also adult proms for charity yearly where celebrities and government officers always go to these functions.\n\nIn India, Bhutan, Sri Lanka and Nepal, the equivalent to some extent is a farewell party or farewell gathering. The outgoing students are given a warm send-off by the junior students and staff. All the seniors are felicitated with souvenirs and superlatives are given awards. There are also couple dances due to influence of American culture and movies in India.\n\nIn Israel, high school graduation parties usually combine a play and a humble ceremony, followed by a dance party. In the past years, influenced by American culture, more and more graduates decide to hold a private graduation party similar to the American prom, with dress code, prom dates, limousines, and prom kings or queens, although usually not supported by the school.\n\nIn Lebanon, proms are held after the graduation ceremony at night. They are usually held at hotels with a formal dress code, prom dates, rented cars and, occasionally, prom kings and queens. Interaction of males and females is not limited.\n\nIn Singapore, proms are held at the near end of a senior year for secondary schools. Proms are normally held after the final examinations of all senior students before graduating.\n\nIn Malaysia, proms are gaining in popularity, especially in the bigger cities. However, these gatherings are usually organized by students, and the school administration is not involved.\n\nIn Pakistan, there is a farewell dinner or farewell function that takes place at the end of the college academic year. Students dress in formal attire. The event ends with a photography session with the graduating batch. Mingling of males and females is discouraged due to adherence to the Islamic codes.\n\nIn the Philippines, proms are popular in high schools. Prom usually takes place in the junior and senior years of high school, normally around February or March. Proms are commonly known as \"JS prom\", or, junior–senior prom. Conversely, if a high school has separate dances for juniors and seniors, the term \"prom\" is reserved for the juniors, and the dance for the seniors is called a \"graduation ball\" (often abbreviated as \"grad ball\" or simply \"ball\".) The associated student body generally organizes the event. Usually a prom king and queen are chosen. The basis for the king and queen judgment is the beauty and the fashion of the nominee, not the popularity.\n\nIn Vietnam, the equivalent to the prom is called \"liên hoan cuối năm\". Some schools hold their liên hoan cuối năm at restaurants, but the majority of schools prefer simple \"tea parties\" with snacks and soft drinks inside their classrooms. Unlike in other countries, students don't dress up in dresses or tuxedos; they simply wear school uniform to the tea parties.\n\nIn Albania, \"mbrëmja e maturës\", as graduation night, is the event held at the end of the senior year. Every school organizes it independently and the event usually takes place in May. Ceremonially it is very similar to prom nights in the United States.\n\nIn the Czech Republic, the last year in \"Gymnasium\" is celebrated with \"maturitní ples\" (“graduation ball”). This ball takes place before exams are taken, usually in January or February, the traditional season for balls during the \"Fasching\" (e.g., List of balls in Vienna). Normally, balls are formal but modern elements are included, too. The students invite their parents, other relatives and friends to come to the ball with them. The balls usually have a theme and the classes perform choreographed dance routines at the beginning or during the evening. The students also receive a ribbon. It's common that various artists are invited to perform at the ball, ranging from fireshow performers to famous celebrities. At midnight, the classes perform a \"midnight surprise performance\" – typically some sort of funny act. Sometimes several schools organize a joint event. The income is often used to finance a collective voyage of the students after the exams.\n\nIn Bulgaria, the ball is called \"abiturientski bal\" and is held at the end of 12th grade, when you are aged 18/19. Preparations for the ball begin at the end of the 11th grade, because students are supposed to organize the whole event. It is celebrated in May, mainly on the 23rd, 24th or 25th, after finishing exams. Students can bring a date to the event which is usually held in a restaurant or a club. Usually, before the main event there is a big gathering in front of the high school’s building, where graduates count to 12 (as in 12 grades) and take photos with each other before going to the restaurant called \"izprashtane\" (“dispatchment”). At the main event in the restaurant/hotel, there is music, usually pop and retro. Students are free to dance with whomever they want, even if they have come with a date. The school director and the 12th grade teachers are also sometimes invited. There is usually an afterparty at a dance club. Some people even organize a second afterparty. After the prom night, students usually go on an excursion together for 3 to 5 days. The popular destinations are the Black sea coast and Turkey. The event is often associated with excess in drinking, drugs, sex and lavish nouveau-riche style of dressing and parading (there are families that would spend as much as a year's salary on their son or daughter' s night). The media regularly criticize it, deploring decadence of morals.\n\nIn Belgium, as well as in some parts of the Netherlands, senior students celebrate their last 100 days of high school with a special day called \"Chrysostomos\" or \"100-dagen feest\" (“100-days party”). Tradition states that on this winter day, seniors are allowed to pull pranks on their teachers and fellow students. Some schools handle a theme as dresscode, while others go for the traditional outfit: blue jeans, a black cotton jacket, a black hat (with a red or blue ribbon) and a whistle around the neck. Some even paint their faces and some seniors also carry a spray can (shaving cream or other fluids) to “attack” the non-seniors with. A noisy march through town is also part of the gig. Later during the day, students perform an act at school, usually a silly show involving school or a parody. In the evening, students head to a rented club to party. This involves dancing, singing and lots of beer to get a taste of fraternity life. Sometimes even teachers join the party to show that they too have a wild side. In the Netherlands, households where a child who has passed their high school exams often hang the student's backpack on a flagpole which is attached to the front of the house.\n\nIn Bosnia, Croatia, Serbia and the Republic of Macedonia, \"matursko veče\" (\"maturalna večer\" and \"maturska večer\"), as graduation night, is the event held at the end of the senior year. It is similar to prom night in the United States. In Croatia, it is sometimes held in January or February, as in Austria.\n\nIn Denmark, the prom is called \"galla\" and takes place before the exams begin. The word \"galla\" refers to the dress code which is long dresses for the women and suits for the men. The prom in Denmark is well known for keeping the traditional dance Les Lanciers, where the third graders of high school (the seniors) start the whole dance, then the 1st and 2nd graders join later on (the high school, called \"gymnasium\" in Denmark, is three years).\n\nIn Estonia, the equivalent of the prom is often called \"Saja päeva ball\". The event takes place 100 days prior to the graduation and may be organized with several schools altogether. Students can dance but other events may be involved, too, besides ball room dancing. The clothes are much the same kind as in proms of other countries.\n\nIn Finland, the equivalent of the prom is called \"vanhojen tanssit\" (senior ball). The event is held in February when third-year high school students (the \"abi\") end regular classes in order to prepare for their final \"abitur\" exams, and the second year students become the oldest in the school. For the remainder of the school year, the second year students are called \"vanhat\" (\"the old\", or \" the seniors\"). For the ball, the students learn 10–15 formal dances, mostly old ballroom dances such as the mazurka or a polonaise. In the past, the style was to dress in an old-fashioned way, but these days the attire is similar to U.S. proms.\n\nIn France, high school students have only recently experienced prom. On June 27, 2013, more than 300 students in Paris, France held a prom. Event planning company White-Tie-Affair partnered up with multiple local companies to host the charity gala. Food, drinks, venue, limousine as well as gift bags were sponsored by the different companies and provided for the students for free. On top of that, famous French music groups Psy4 de la Rime and Alibi Montana were the guest performance of the evening. All proceeds from the students’ entrance fee were donated to Donnons Leur Une Chance, a French non-profit organization that will help realize educational projects.\n\nIn Germany (and Austria), students celebrate their graduation from high school, or Gymnasium, with an Abifeier (from the graduation certificate or Abitur) or Maturaball (in Austria the graduation exam is called Matura). In Germany the events are informal and usually contain a series of student-organized activities that tend to make fun of teachers, sometimes with an extended hagiography about the favorite teacher. In Austria the Maturaball is formal and can be seen as a synergy of proms and cotillions and often are highlights of the regional ball season (between November and the end of Carneval) referencing the glamour of the great ball tradition of the former Austrian-Hungarian monarchy. More like the prom is the German Abiball, that follows the official graduation ceremony. Here the students usually wear suits and ball gowns. The Abiball often follows a certain order with a welcome, introductions, an award ceremony for students and sometimes an extended demonstration of all of the artistic outpourings of the students and staff. This is followed by a band (sometimes the school's own band, if there is any) or a DJ playing music, usually starting with a waltz before moving on to other dancing. Alcohol is available at these events since the legal drinking age in Germany is 16 (for beer and wine), and most graduating students are 18 or older.\n\nIn Hungary, students receive a ribbon to mark the beginning of the preparation for their graduation. Students receive this ribbon at a ball called \"szalagavató\", meaning the \"inauguration of ribbons\". Many of the students wear this ribbon on their jackets or shirts until graduation. This prom-like evening dance is traditionally held in the ball season of January–February, but November-December has gained popularity in recent years as well. At the beginning of the ball, after a short speech by the headteacher, each student gets the ribbon from their form teacher who pins it on their jacket or dress. Then a series of choreographed dances begins, which the students learned during the months leading up to the event. The first one is traditionally a dance called \"palotás\" (palace dance) performed by students from different classes, then each graduating class performs their own class dance, and finally there's a waltz, which is also performed by students from different classes. Occasionally, the teachers of the school perform a dance as well. After the ball of the evening organised by the school, students usually go out at night to drink to bars and discos, even if some of them are below drinking age (18 in Hungary).\n\nAfter they graduate, each class has its own party (without choreographed dances) usually at a restaurant, where their teachers are also invited. This is called \"érettségi bankett\" (graduation banquet).\n\nIn Ireland, this formal dance is called the débutantes' ball. This is referred to as the \"grad\", or, informally, debs in Ireland. This is a formal dance for students who have just graduated from secondary school (high school) and is traditionally held between September and October. Alcohol is available at these events.\n\nIn Italian military academies the equivalent is known as \"i cento giorni\" (\"the one hundred days\"), an unofficial party organised by students themselves in a location of their choice 100 days before the final exams before high school graduation. Usually the party is not held with all graduating students, rather every class organizes a separated party to celebrate with classmates.\nThe tradition of \"i cento giorni\" comes from Piedmontese military schools in the late 1800, where days remaining to graduation were counted starting from the 100th with the locution \"Mak Π 100\", from Piedmontese language \"mac pì 100\", translating as \"just more 100 (days remaining).\"\nIn other Italian high schools may be usual to have a dinner, sometimes with teachers, just some time before final exams.\n\nIn Lithuania, the prom is held after final exams, usually the same day when high school diplomas are presented. The event is called \"išleistuvės\".\n\nIn Norway, this event varies from school to school. It is usually held during the winter months, and is often called \"Nyttårsball\" which means \"the new years ball.\" The students are not allowed to bring people from outside the school. In Norway it is the norm to have proms for 8th, 9th, and 10th graders at Norwegian middleschool and most of the time, there is no division between formal and grad – students can attend in whatever clothing they choose, such as traditional knee-long dresses.\n\nThe Polish equivalent of the prom (\"studniówka\") is a very popular event held each year throughout the country; the word itself means \"of or relating to 100 days\". Most schools organise such an event about 100 days before the (matura) exam session. The first dance of the prom is the traditional Polish polonaise. In the past, the dress code for the \"studniówka\" was the same as for final exams, i.e. a white blouse or shirt with a dark skirt or trousers. As opposed to the \"studniówka\", formal attire is required for the so-called Grand Ball (\"bal maturalny\"), held after graduation. Nowadays, as Grand Balls are rare, the \"studniówka\" has adopted a formal dress code.\n\nIn Portugal, there was no prom tradition. However, during the last few years schools have adopted such celebration. Usually, they happen before the end of the school year, in May or June and are called \"Baile de Finalistas\" (Finalist's Ball). The students wear formal suits and dresses. It is usually organized by a student association, elected in the beginning of the school year by the students to organize school events.\n\nAlthough it happens in the majority of the country, on Madeira Island the tradition is a bit different. Instead of having the prom at the end of the year, the seniors have a ceremony called \"Benção das Capas\" (Cape's Blessing), where they all use suits, including the girls, and a cape that is blessed by the city's cardinal. Afterwards, the students have dinner with their friends and family and then go to the prom. However, this prom isn't formal, it ends up being similar to a club but in a different location, although sometimes it may happen at a club. Such location is chosen by the student association. This ceremony ends up being very similar to one that the Portuguese students have when they finish college. The students only have a date to attend the first ceremony and they tend to go to the prom as groups.\n\nIn Romania distinct proms are held each year in high schools and college for both the graduating students as well as the newly enrolled ones. They are called graduation balls and freshmen (\"boboci\", meaning \"hatchlings\" in Romanian) balls, respectivelly. They are usually not black tie (informal). The venue is chosen by the teaching staff and can be any place, including the school gym or auditorium, a club, restaurant etc. It is common to charge students an admission tax in order to offset the cost. One or more bands or singers are usually hired to provide entertainment. Often the event is sponsored by local businesses. Access is usually controlled and limited to students of that particular high school or university, but exceptions can be made for relatives and it is not uncommon for students from other institutions to try to crash a particular prom. Freshmen proms usually include a popularity contest of some sort, which designates 3 girls and 3 boys as places I, II and III \"most popular\" as chosen by student vote; the candidates have to undergo various entertaining challenges, which usually include pair dancing. Generally speaking, freshmen proms are the more popular, with college freshmen proms often being publicized as club events and promoted by radio stations, who take the opportunity to introduce bands and singers. Whereas graduation proms are more subdued and often not a public or even a school-wide event, many graduating classes choosing to restrict attendance just to the actual graduates and their teachers.\n\nIn Belarus and Russia proms are called \"Vypusknоi vechеr\" (\"Выпускной вечер\"), which literally means \"graduation evening\". They take place from the 18th to the 20th or the 23rd to the 25th of June, after all state exams are completed. Proms are never held on the 21st/22nd because they took place on June 21 in 1941, but on the 22nd all graduates were drafted to fight the German invasion during World War II. First, all graduates receive their diplomas. Students with higher marks receive them first. Afterward, the prom continues as a school ball, traditionally with classic dances. Students may choose restaurants, cafes, or ships rather than school grounds to hold the events. Proms may be held in a discothèque, but it must start with the school waltz. At the conclusion of the prom evening, it is tradition to walk the whole night and watch sunrise in the morning (on a hill, if applicable, in Moscow – Sparrow Hills).\n\nIn Ukraine prom is called \"Vypusknyi vechir\" or simply \"vypusknyi\" (\"Випускний вечір\" or simply \"Випускний\"), which literally means \"graduation evening\". The date is defined by a school,; usually any date from late May to mid-June. Usually, \"vypusknyi\" consists of two parts. The first one called \"urochysta chastyna\" (\"урочиста частина\", that means \"solemn part\"), during which graduates receive their diplomas and certificates of honor for exceptional achievements during studying. The first part is conducted in the first part of the day, while the second part usually starts in the evening. The time between two parts is used to walk around a city and take some pictures. The second part, \"ne ofitsiyna chastyna\" (\"не офіційна частина\", that means \"informal part\"), starts as a school ball, but after a round of waltz, it transforms into a conventional party. The venue of the second part is determined by graduates and their parents; usually, it takes place in school, cafe, restaurant, on a boat or at the country. Traditionally, the second part is attended by graduates, their parents, and teachers. However, school teachers and parents don't mix with graduates. The second part ends with a sunrise. Usually, each city has one or a few locations that are the most popular for watching a sunrise. That is why schools try not to have proms on the same date.\n\nIn Slovakia, the closest thing to a prom is Stužková, an occasion when the seniors get together with their parents, partners and teachers to celebrate their upcoming graduation. It takes place in November or December. Each of the students receives a green ribbon with their name on it (thus the name Stužková, the Ribbon Ball). The principal and the class teacher are given big green ribbons as well. Many of the students wear this ribbon on their jackets or shirts until graduation. Stužková typically includes a banquet, skits and songs prepared by students, and, of course, dancing. Men wear formal suits and women formal dresses. One week before Stužková is a ceremony of Pečatenie triednej knihy (Sealing of the Class-register) so that teachers will not give bad marks to students before Stužková. It is connected with some story and recorded by cameraman and then put on a DVD of Stužková. It usually starts at 6 p.m. and ends in the early hours of the next morning (4a.m.).\n\nIn Slovenia, the equivalent is Maturantski ples. It is held before the final exams between January and May, depending on the region and school. Students can bring dates and/or close family to the ball. It is a custom that each student dances the last dance of the first sequence, a Vienna Walzer, with his mother/her father. There is also a dinner and live music.\n\nIn some places in Spain proms are also celebrated as after-school parties. These parties are commonly called \"fiestas de graduación\", which can be translated as \"graduation parties\".\n\nIn Sweden, this kind of event is usually known as \"Studentbalen\". The word \"Studentbalen\" is a proper noun meaning \"The Student Ball,\" while the word studentbal is a common noun that can refer to any formal dinner and dance at a Swedish university. Studentbalen is usually held during the final weeks before graduating and can be formal.\n\nThe Swiss equivalent of a prom is the \"bal de printemps\". Literally translated, this is a \"Spring Ball.\" At some schools in the German speaking cantons, it is called \"Maturaball.\" This is not always organized by the schools, but sometimes by a student's committee. It takes mostly part before the final exams.\n\nIn Turkey, the equivalent is called \"Graduation Ball.\" The type of event and the rules applied are created by the student governments and school boards. It is a graduation tradition for seniors.\n\nIn Australia and New Zealand, the tradition is similar to schools in the United States. However, if the event is not described to the final year, it may be described as a Ball, School Formal, or simply \"Formal\". If the event is in the final year of high school, it is sometimes called a Dinner-dance, Leavers' Dinner or Debutante Ball but is also commonly called a School Formal or \"Formal.\" In Australia some schools may also have a Valedictory Dinner, which is like the formal but has students, parents and teachers instead of students and dates.\n\nAs the name suggests, attire for the occasion is generally formal. Boys will usually dress in a suit and tie. Girls traditionally wear formal gowns or dresses. In most cases a school formal is held at a local reception centre or ballroom. A multicourse meal is generally provided. After the meal students generally dance to popular music played by a hired DJ or sometimes a band. Many students group together to go to the formal in a limousine. While parents do not attend a formal, teachers may act as chaperones for the formal and security guards are sometimes hired. The use of chaperones is intended to prevent the occurrence of violence and alcohol or drug use. Generally after a formal, one or more after-parties are held.\n\nIn addition to the high school graduation \"formal\" that marks the end of Year 12, there is also an event that is sometimes held to celebrate completing the School Certificate at the end of Year 10 (or Year 11 in New Zealand), and always held after receiving Higher School Certificate at the end of Year 12 and includes a dinner and dance. The NSW Government announced the abolition of the School Certificate after 2011, with students in year 10 that year being the final cohort to sit the external examinations and receive the qualification. Subsequent Year 10 \"Formals\" have been deemed \"unnecessary\" due to the fact that the majority of Year 10 students now progress to Year 11. In previous years when 25–30% of students left high school in Year 10, the Formal was seen as a celebration for those departing, however Year 10 Formals are still sometimes celebrated in the name of tradition. In year 11, students occasionally organise a \"semi-formal\" or \"social\" at the end of the school year, which is a more casual version of a formal. If a school has a sister school the social is typically organised in conjunction with them, as a \"social event\" for people to mingle and meet new people. The Valedictory Dinner (or Val as it is colloquially called) is an event that only occurs in Year 12. In New Zealand, most state school balls are held in the winter months, between June and August, while in Australia, a \"formal\" is held at the end of the year to mark the end of schooling, as is the Valedictory Dinner. Due to cultural differences, in New Zealand these 'balls' may be held consistently each year with the appropriate respect, but except for private schools they tend to be far less formal and 'proper' than in the US or Australia.\n\nIn American Samoa the typical Junior/Senior prom is held in most of the schools, an exception would be one of the private schools, which lets even 8th graders, freshmen, and sophomores participate in prom.\n\nIn Venezuela, they have prom as well, they call it \"graduación\" o \"fiesta de graduación.\" It can consist of dancing, dinner and live music.\n\nIn Argentina there are \"fiestas de egresados\" for students finishing their last year of high school. These consist of big parties hosted by the senior students in local discos or other venues, starting at 10 p.m. until about 5 or 6 in the morning. They have dinner with parents and other members of the family, and after midnight friends and other guests join the dance. The parties start in late September, after most students come back from their senior trip to Bariloche and last until early December, after the graduation. The students dress formally.\n\nIn Brazil, \"bailes de formatura\" are usual at the end of high school and at college graduation. There is no crowning of a \"king\" or a \"queen,\" but evening gowns and suits are required. Family may or may not be included, and there may be a live band or DJ hired to command the music.\n\nIn Chile, proms, or \"fiestas de graduación\" (graduation parties), are usually held at convention centers or hotels after the \"licenciatura,\" or graduation from High School. They can also be held after taking the PSU (Chilean University Entrance Exam) in December. Students are expected to dress formally. They are allowed to go with dates or friends. After the dinner, the dance continues through the night into the next day.\n\nIn Colombia many private schools usually have prom balls as well, usually consisting of a dinner, dancing, live music, and contests. They are usually held at hotels or clubs.\n\nIn Costa Rica, like many other American countries, the \"Baile de graduación\" is celebrated after finishing High School, where grade 11 is also the last year. It usually takes place before graduation to celebrate the end of school. It's normally held in hotels or saloons with a dance floor, music and dinner. It starts with the students walking through the dance floor and dancing a waltz. The dinner comes after, and the rest of the night consists of dancing and celebration.\n\nIn Honduras, they are called \"Cena de Graduacion\", they are held in luxury hotels, also familiars of the graduating students are invited. This event is held only for private schools, the act consists on a formal graduation and deliver of their diplomas, after that, a dinner is held between the graduating students and their familiars or friends in the same room which later will become in a dance floor for everyone.\n\nIn Peru, proms—\"Fiestas de Promoción\"—are usually held at hotels, convention centers, or big residences. The dress code is formal. Some parents and teachers are often invited, but they don't stay the whole night. Dinner is served as well as alcoholic drinks and delicatessen. Breakfast is often served the next day, at around 6–7 am. There is a growing tradition to hold a \"pre-prom\" for the students in the class below the graduating class, and even a \"pre-pre-prom\" for the students in the class below that.\n\nIn Mexico, most high schools and junior high (middle school) have proms only allow the graduating class (seniors) to have a prom, after a church service for the graduating class. The students dress in Formal wear and attend in couples. Some colleges have an after-graduation dinner dance.\n\nIn Trinidad and Tobago and most Caribbean countries, it is traditional for schools to hold a dance at the end of the CXC/GCE Advanced Level examination period. This is thrown simultaneously for fifth form and upper sixth form students during the months of June or July after the school's official graduation ceremony. It is colloquially referred to as \"grad\" or \"gradz\". Most \"gradz\" are held in popular clubs, hotels, halls or simply on the school's grounds. Most schools allow students to bring dates, and a formal dress code is usually in effect.\n\nIn Uruguay, graduation parties are usually held after graduation itself. They may or may be not organised by the school, but by the students itself. Usually a place is rented, and formal parties are held. Students are allowed to take one guest, as a friend or as a partner.\n\nThe concept of extending prom to homeschool students has been realized in recent years. Although some school districts in the United States and Canada allow homeschool students to attend the prom in the school district where they reside, many homeschool groups also organize their own proms. Some states, such as Oregon, Ohio, Georgia, Tennessee, and Michigan, also host statewide homeschool proms, which any homeschool student in that state is welcome to attend.\n\nProms that are specifically geared toward homeschool students can sometimes be significantly different from traditional high school proms. It is not uncommon for a homeschool student to attend a homeschool prom solo, rather than taking a date. Often the music played is chosen by the parents rather than the students.\n\nAn adult prom is a social event that is almost perfectly similar to a high school prom in terms of themes and attire, except that some adult proms also serve alcoholic beverages, and therefore most adult proms (at least in the U.S.) require those attending to be at least 21 years of age. The origin of adult prom is unclear, though Drew Barrymore is often credited with inadvertently inventing the concept in the 1990s, when she stated in an interview on Late Night with Conan O'Brien that she threw a prom party for herself and a few friends who never got to go to prom.\n\nA form of adult prom is the \"second chance prom\", which is sometimes sponsored by a local radio station in some cities. It is a big gathering of people who either did not go to prom, wanted to relive prom, or whose high school prom did not work out the way they had hoped.\n\nIn the novel \"Nobody's Property\", character Mallorie Walcott, an event planner, mentions that she helped put her younger daughter Cassandra through college, in part, from the revenue she made from planning adult proms in the 1990s either for people who missed their actual high school proms in the 1970s and 1980s, or simply wanted to re-live their prom night.\n\nThey have become increasingly common, especially in the United States, and usually are hosted either as fundraisers for charities, or for-profit ventures.\n\nA slightly different take on the adult prom is that of the disabilities prom, dedicated to providing a prom experience to disabled adults at no charge to the attendees. These events are most often organized by non-profit organizations focusing on the disabled, or large churches.\n\nSometimes, individuals re-create a prom-themed party either for themselves or a friend who did not get to attend his or her prom.\n\nDrew Barrymore has been known to host \"prom parties\" on at least two occasions, having once stated in an interview with Conan O'Brien in the late 1990s that she threw one for herself one time because she had always wanted a prom, but didn't get the chance, having not finished high school. In 2007, Barrymore threw a prom-themed birthday party for a close friend who had missed her senior prom.\n\nIn 2009, friends, family members, and hospital workers in Atlanta, Georgia re-created a prom for then-senior Raven Johnson, who was in a coma at the time of her original senior prom.\n\nIn 2010, Theatrical producers in New York produced an audience participation theatrical play, set in an actual dance hall, called The Awesome 80s Prom, where attendees were at a prom and got to vote on the king and queen from the cast of characters.\n\nAnti-proms can be private, unofficial proms that are privately created, outside the control of the school, usually by people who disagree with their school's prom policies. Some schools also include the \"anti-prom\" as an official event called \"morp\" (\"prom\" spelled backwards). Morp has become increasingly popular due to the raised awareness and effort on behalf of Kristina Siegert, Esegent Lemma, and Mary Boyd from Belleville, Ontario who refused to participate in the 2017 prom at Nicholson Catholic College.\n\nAdult proms for gay and lesbian adults who could not attend their proms with a date of the same sex are popular in some cities. A 1980 court decision required public schools to allow same-sex dates in the United States.\n\nOver the course of history, proms have been the source of many controversies, many of which involve LGBT students.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38506943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38506943", "title": "Research Institute of Petroleum Industry", "text": "Research Institute of Petroleum Industry\n\nThe Research Institute of Petroleum Industry, also known as NIOC-RIPI, often shortened to RIPI () is a governmental research institute founded in 1959 in Tehran, Iran and is affiliated with National Iranian Oil Company.\n\nThe institute is a major research institute in Iran and is the largest of its kind in the Middle East. RIPI has become a major technology provider for Iran’s petroleum industry. In 2002, it developed a technology that converts heavy crude oil into the more desirable, a new generation of GTL technology.\n\nResearch Institute of Petroleum Industry was initially established under the title of “Iran Petroleum Industry Research Development Office” in 1959. ( ) Its primary aim was carrying out research on application of petroleum materials. After revolution of Islamic Republic of Iran, the office was changed into a center for “Research and Scientific Services”( ) and it has continued its activities in order to achieve the objectives. In 1989, upon the formal agreement of the development council of Department of Culture and Higher Education, the center was called “Research Institute of Petroleum Industry” and with the aim of carrying out fundamental, applied, and developmental researchers has continued doing its activities.\n\nStrategy of PIRI is creating added value via production and commercialization of technology, with the approach of carrying out research for development of new technologies and indigenization of new technologies.\n\n55-year history of this center in research and development and also its many extra organizational projects and effective activities in the industry have resulted in its growth over the time. Regarding its record and history, now PIRI is known as a pioneer of developing the technologies required by the industry.\n\nProduction of valuable products such as technical knowledge, patents, and presentation of papers in reputable magazines are other brilliant activities besides its main mission; and PIRI has had excellent performance in all of them. Of course among these activities, technical knowledge and patents are more important and PIRI has done very well in these fields, too.\n\nExistence of huge investments such as human resources, equipment and unique capabilities of PIRI have resulted in success and high income of PIRI in activities of technology development (industrial and semi-industrial); among unique capabilities of PIRI we can refer to : technical development, transfer & indigenization of refinery technologies, advisory services for optimizing and solving the industries problems (petroleum industry, in particular), giving license and designing the units which are under the license of oil and gas condensates refineries, comprehensive reservoir studies and presentation of the field development plan, development of new technologies for solving the problem of water, air and soil pollution, and protecting the oil facilities. It should be mentioned that for the fourth consecutive year, PIRI has won the award on technical and engineering field.\n\nIn proclamation of supreme leader of Iran on general policies of resistive economy, there are two clauses which relate to enhancement in strategic reservoirs of oil and gas and increase in added value through completion of the value chain of gas and oil industry. PIRI is the key element in realization of these objectives. PIRI believes that the main factors in realization of these objectives are creation, development, and indigenization of required technologies in oil recovery and completion of the cycle of “science up to wealth”; thus one of the ways for reaching these goals is establishment of science-based companies.\n\nIn line with the goals of vision2025 document in which Iran is considered as a developed country occupying the first economic, scientific and technological place in the region; and by establishing an effective interaction in its international affairs, PIRI tries to reach the first scientific rank in the region. So, PIRI plays an outstanding role in realization of the vision document and even aims to realize science-based economy and international interactions. The role of energy in Iran’s economy and increase of its consumption in the country, made PIRI develop a complete and comprehensive plan for optimization of energy consumption.\n\nPIRI, enjoying from efficient and expert staff and also modern technologies and equipment, mostly has aimed to produce more added value in order to achieve macro policies of the country in realization of science-based economy as the pivotal pillar of the resistive economy,\n\nRelying on new management, PIRI believes that with support and cooperation of managers, universities, scientific research centers, science-based companies and experienced contractors in the area of oil and gas industry, we can take big steps towards realization of high objectives of policyholders and planners of the country. Among those high objectives, we can refer to production and optimum use of reservoirs, offer and development of new technologies and consistent progress with protecting the production resources. Therefore, PIRI warmly welcomes all powerful and capable companies’ cooperation in industrialization of domestic technologies which we have referred to some of them in this booklet.\n\nIn line with macro policies of the oil industry and employing a new approach, PIRI has classified its major activities into three sections of “production and optimum use of strategic oil and gas reserves”, “ offer and development of new technologies in industries”, and “ consistent development and protection of resources” and they have been publicized in 19th exhibition .\n\nThe research activities of RIPI are divided into three main sections, namely “Research and development of upstream petroleum industry Research Center”, “research and development of downstream petroleum industry Research Center” and “research and development of energy and environment Research Center”.\n\nRIPI has 1628 staff including 145 Ph.Ds, 458 M.Scs and 281 B.Scs.\n\nRIPI has three campuses:\n\nSub-sections and faculties are included in each campus, which in turn are hosts to research groups in the fields of oil and gas.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26937033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26937033", "title": "Research statement", "text": "Research statement\n\nA research statement is a summary of research achievements and a proposal for upcoming research. It often includes both current aims and findings, and future goals. Research statements are usually requested as part of a relevant job application process, and often assist in the identification of appropriate applicants.\n\nA typical research statement follows a typical pattern in regard to layout, and often includes features of other research documents including an abstract, research background and goals. Often these reports are tailored towards specific audiences, and may be used to showcase job proficiency or underline particular areas of research within a program.\n\nThe purpose of a research statement is to let the viewers (e.g. an academic student or a research committee) know the essence of the research document, the main points of the research and where the research will lead to later on. The later paragraphs of a statement might highlight the benefits that the research report will provide to its relevant subject field.\nA research statement if done properly can be successful in answering the questions below:\n\n\nAcademic researchers stress the point that a research statement cannot simply be answered by saying yes or no but is supported by valid evidences.\n\nThe content of a research statement is concerned with 3 main elements:\n\nThe research statement of college students or recent graduates discusses the thesis required in college or university.\n\n\n\n\nSome of the main research statements for quantitative researches are\n\n\nQuantitative research statements are based on the logic of deduction and reasoning and are formed by identifying the variables of a general theory and observing a few selected variables.\n\nSome of the main research statements for qualitative researches are\n\n\nQualitative research statements are based on inductive reasoning and are restated several times during the collection of data. They explain what influence qualitative statements or variables have in decision making under uncertain conditions.\n\nUsually two types of research statements are formed for a research paper.\n\n\nBelow are some of the reasons many research proposals are turned down by research committees.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47994343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47994343", "title": "Safe Schools Declaration", "text": "Safe Schools Declaration\n\nThe Safe Schools Declaration is an inter-governmental political commitment that was opened for endorsement by countries at an international conference held in Oslo, Norway, on 28-29 May 2015. The Declaration provides countries the opportunity to express political support for the protection of students, teachers, and schools during times of armed conflict; the importance of the continuation of education during armed conflict; and the implementation of the \"Guidelines for Protecting Schools and Universities from Military Use during Armed Conflict\".\nAs of November 2018, 82 countries have endorsed the Safe Schools Declaration, which remains open for additional countries to join. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Norway is the depositary of endorsements.\nOn March 28-29, 2017, the ministries of foreign affairs and defense of Argentina co-hosted the Second International Safe Schools Conference in Buenos Aires.\n\nIn May 2017, the United Nations Secretary General, António Guterres, urged all Member States to endorse the Safe Schools Declaration.\n\nOn April 24, 2018, Spain announced that it will host the Third International Safe Schools Conference in 2019.\n\nThe Safe Schools Declaration was developed through consultations with states led by the ministries of foreign affairs of Norway and Argentina between January and May 2015. \n\nRepresentatives from more than 60 countries attended the conference launching the Safe Schools Declaration in 2015, along with the Norwegian Foreign Minister Børge Brende, Norwegian Defence Minister Ine Marie Eriksen Søreide, and Ziauddin Yousafzai the father of Nobel Peace Prize laureate Malala Yousafzai.\n\nRepresentatives from more than 80 countries attended the second Safe Schools Conference in Buenos Aires in 2017.\n\n\"The impact of armed conflict on education presents urgent humanitarian, development and wider social challenges. Worldwide, schools and universities have been bombed, shelled and burned, and children, students, teachers and academics have been killed, maimed, abducted or arbitrarily detained. Educational facilities have been used by parties to armed conflict as, \"inter alia\", bases, barracks or detention centres. Such actions expose students and education personnel to harm, deny large numbers of children and students their right to education and so deprive communities of the foundations on which to build their future. In many countries, armed conflict continues to destroy not just school infrastructure, but the hopes and ambitions of a whole generation of children.\" \n– Opening paragraph of Safe Schools Declaration\nThe Safe Schools Declaration describes the immediate and long-term consequences of attacks on students, teachers, schools, and universities, and the military use of schools and universities, during times of armed conflict. It contrasts this with the positive and protective role that education can have during armed conflict.\n\nBy joining the Declaration, states formally endorse the \"Guidelines for Protecting Schools and Universities from Military Use during Armed Conflict\" and commit to “bring them into domestic policy and operational frameworks as far as possible and appropriate.”\n\nThe Declaration also contains a number of other commitments aimed at strengthening the prevention of, and response to, attacks on education during armed conflict, including by: collecting reliable data on attacks and military use of schools and universities; providing assistance to victims of attacks; investigating allegations of violations of national and international law and prosecuting perpetrators where appropriate; developing and promoting “conflict sensitive” approaches to education; seeking to continue education during armed conflict; and supporting the work of the United Nations on the children and armed conflict agenda.\n\nLastly, the Declaration is a framework for collaboration and exchange, as endorsing states also agree to meet on a regular basis to review implementation of the Declaration and use of the \"Guidelines\".\n\nAs of November 2018, the following 82 countries had endorsed the Declaration:\n\nThe Secretary-General of the United Nations António Guterres has called upon all countries to endorse the Safe Schools Declaration. \n\nVirginia Gamba, the Special Representative to the UN Secretary-General has said that all countries should endorse the Safe Schools Declaration, as \"It has made an essential contribution towards promoting tangible measures to prevent attacks on education.\" \n\nFormer Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, Gordon Brown stated that \"every country must now support\" the Declaration.\nThe United Kingdom has not endorsed the Safe Schools Declaration.\nIn a letter from the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (02/03/16), James Dudddridge (then the Minister for Africa, the Overseas Territories, and the Caribbean) stated that:\n\n“While we welcome the spirit of the Safe Schools Declaration, we are concerned that the accompanying Guidelines for Protecting Schools and Universities from Military use during Armed Conflict do not mirror the exact language of International Humanitarian Law, which risk complicating the application of International Humanitarian Law”.\nThis has been mirrored in a statement from a representative of the United Kingdom’s Foreign and Commonwealth Office.\n\nLeila Zerrougui, the former Special Representative to the Secretary-General of the United Nations said that she would \"strongly advocate on behalf of children in conflict situations to persuade as many other Member States as we can to throw their support behind the initiative.\" \nJan Egeland, Secretary General of the Norwegian Refugee Council noted at the Safe Schools conference that \"10 years from now we will look back on this day. Those who endorsed will say ‘we should really have done this earlier’. Those who did not endorse will say ‘why did we not endorse it?'\" \n\n"}
{"id": "51661458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51661458", "title": "Salaam University", "text": "Salaam University\n\nSalaam University (SU) (Somali: \"Jaamacadda Salaam\", Arabic: جامعــة ســـلام) is a private university in Mogadishu, Somalia.\n\nSalaam University was founded in September 2008 – 2009 as a medical school to help train local doctors and health workers. The founders of the university had the desire to become the leading academic institution in Somalia so as to build a \"Perfect Future\" for its graduates and the nation.\n\nThe university current faculties:\n\n\n\nBachelor of corruption and misuse of national assets\n\n\nAccreditation\n\nAs of 2009, Salaam University (JUST) has the full accreditation of Higher Education and Culture of the Federal Government of Somalia.\n"}
{"id": "30079285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30079285", "title": "San Buenaventura Conservancy", "text": "San Buenaventura Conservancy\n\nThe San Buenaventura Conservancy is an historic preservation organization in Ventura, California also known by its early name of San Buenaventura. It works to recognize and revitalize historic, archeological and cultural resources in the region. The Conservancy is a membership based historic preservation non-profit 501c3 organization. The group was formed in 2004 after the demolition of the Mayfair Theater, an S. Charles Lee, Streamline Moderne, movie theater in downtown Ventura, California that was razed and replaced with a condo project.\n\nThe San Buenaventura Conservancy mission statement: \"To work through advocacy and outreach to recognize preserve and revitalize the irreplaceable historic, architectural and cultural resources of San Buenaventura and surrounding areas. To seek to increase public awareness of and participation in local preservation issues, and disseminate information useful in the preservation of structures and neighborhoods of San Buenaventura.\" San Buenaventura Conservancy website\n\nThe organization produces annual historic architecture tours in the historic neighborhoods and districts in midtown, downtown and the west side of Ventura, California. The conservancy is an all-volunteer organization with a ten-member board. Some of the Conservancy's most successful projects outside of the Ventura architectural Weekend tours and trade shows has been the ability of the board to work closely the City of Ventura, California and developers to find preservation solutions for historic buildings. At times the Conservancy advocates for specific historic buildings like Willett Ranch link to article and the Top Hat Burger Palace in Ventura, the Frank Petit House in South Oxnard, California, the Charles McCoy house, in Port Hueneme, California, and the Bracero farm Worker Camp in Piru, California, and the Wagon Wheel Motel on the 101 Freeway in Oxnard, California. Additionally the Conservancy works to strengthen preservation policies of local municipalities. It has achieved success at integrating appropriate preservation actions and policies into Ventura's General Plan, Downtown Specific Plan, and Westside Community Plan.\n\nOn March 2, 2009 the San Buenaventura Conservancy – with attorney Susan Brandt-Hawley – filed suit in Ventura County Superior Court against the City of Oxnard, California, claiming that the City’s approval of the Oxnard Village Specific Plan project violated the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA). link to article The project, as approved, requires the demolition of the Wagon Wheel Motel and restaurant, El Ranchito and bowling alley along with everything built on the site. The Conservancy case argues that the project can be feasibly accomplished without demolition of the Wagon Wheel, and CEQA therefore does not allow the Class 1 impact. The lawsuit requests issuance of a peremptory writ ordering the City to set aside its approval of the project pending compliance with CEQA.\n\nThe original Ventura County Superior Court case was presented July 10, 2009. The Judge sided with the city of Oxnard. The San Buenaventura Conservancy has appealed the ruling and received a stay of demolition until the outcome of the appeal case: San Buenaventura Conservancy v. City of Oxnard et al. (CEQA) (Case: B220512 2nd District, Division 6.) link to article On Wednesday December 15, a three judge panel at the California 2nd district Court of Appeal in Ventura, California heard arguments from attorneys representing the case: Susan Brandt-Hawley for the San Buenaventura Conservancy, and Rachel Cook representing the developer ( Oxnard Village Investments, LLC.) and the city of Oxnard, California. The Appeals Court sided with the City of Oxnard on March 17, 2011 and agreed with the Superior court that the CEQA review was sufficient. The Wagon Wheel was demolished a week later.\n\nShepherd, Dirk, \"Save the Wagon Wheel\", VC Reporter Newspaper article, Jan 11, 2007, link to article\n\nLevin, Charles, Ventura County Star Newspaper, \"Old motel might be declared landmark\", January 23, 2007, link to article\n\nSinger, Matthew, \"Looking for a landmark\", VC Reporter Newspaper article, January 25, 2007, link to article\n\nClerici, Kevin \"Group sues Ventura to halt razing of ranch\", Ventura County Star Newspaper article, June 28, 2007, link to article\n\nLascher, Bill, VC Reporter Newspaper article, \"Hotel could occupy Chumash Village site\", February 7, 2008, link to article\n\nClerici, Kevin \"Historical Willett buildings to remain on site\", Ventura County Star Newspaper article, February 27, 2008, link to article\n\nLascher, Bill, \"Endangered Heritage and San Buenaventura Conservancy's 11 most endangered list\", VC Reporter Newspaper article, June 12, 2008, link to article\n\nCason, Coleen, Ventura County Star Newspaper article, \"Changing days, landmarks in photo calendar\", December 28, 2008, link to article\n\nVC Reporter Newspaper article, \"The San Buenaventura Conservancy hosts an architectural, archaeological tour\", January 15, 2009, link to article\n\nHadley, Scott, Ventura County Star Newspaper, \"Oxnard Wagon Wheel Development to be taken up by council\", January 27, 2009, \n\nHadley, Scott, Ventura County Star Newspaper, \"Wagon Wheel redevelopment approved\", January 29, 2009,\n\nSullivan, Michael, VC Reporter Newspaper article, \"Historical homes in Oxnard meet a fiery grave this week\", February 26, 2009, link to article\n\nFoster, Margaret, \"Lawsuit Stalls Loss of 1947 Motel\", Preservation Magazine (Online), March 26, 2009, link to article\n\nFoster, Margaret, \"Calif. City Burns Down 1883 Farmhouses\", Preservation Magazine (Online), March 31, 2009\n\nVentura County Star Newspaper, \"Memorial Boulder Keeps on Rollin\"', March 29, 2009, link to article\n\nChawkins Steve, \"Trying to keep Oxnard's Wagon Wheel in place\", Los Angeles Times, April 10, 2009, link to article\n\nHadley, Scott, Ventura County Star Newspaper, \"Judge Blocks Demolition of Wagon Wheel Buildings\", October 31, 2009,\n\nSisolak, Paul, \"Wagon Wheel Headed Back To Court\", VC Reporter Newspaper article, November 12, 2009, \n\nHadley, Scott, Ventura County Star Newspaper, \"Judge Clears way for Wagon Wheel Demolition\", November 17, 2009,\n\nSisolak, Paul, \"Court Appeal Possible in Wagon Wheel Preservation Case\", VC Reporter Newspaper article, November 19, 2009,\n\nMcKinnon, Lisa, Ventura County Star Newspaper, \"Ventura's Top Hat Burger Palace given 30 days to vacate site\", January 8, 2010, link to article\n\nCohn, Shane, VC Reporter Newspaper article, \"Up for debate The future of Ventura’s Westside may rest in Rancho Cañada Larga\", December 9, 2010, link to article\n\nHadley, Scott, Ventura County Star Newspaper, \"Final arguments presented in Wagon Wheel case\", December 15, 2010, link to article\n\n"}
{"id": "172328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=172328", "title": "Simon Armitage", "text": "Simon Armitage\n\nSimon Robert Armitage, (born 26 May 1963) is an English poet, playwright and novelist. He is professor of poetry at the University of Leeds. On 19 June 2015, Armitage was elected to the part-time position of Oxford Professor of Poetry, succeeding Geoffrey Hill.\n\nArmitage was born in Huddersfield, West Riding of Yorkshire and grew up in the village of Marsden. Armitage first studied at Colne Valley High School, Linthwaite and went on to study geography at Portsmouth Polytechnic; his first poetry collection was called \"Human Geography\" (1988). He was a post-graduate student at the University of Manchester where his MA thesis concerned the effects of television violence on young offenders. Until 1994 he worked as a probation officer in Greater Manchester.\n\nHe has lectured on creative writing at the University of Leeds, the University of Iowa, and was senior lecturer at Manchester Metropolitan University. He has made literary, history and travel programmes for BBC Radios 3 and 4; and since 1992 he has written and presented a number of TV documentaries. From 2009-2012 he was Artist in Residence at London's South Bank, and in February 2011 he became Professor of Poetry at the University of Sheffield. In October 2017 he was appointed as the first Professor of Poetry at the University of Leeds.\n\nHe lives in the Holme Valley, West Yorkshire. He is a lifelong Huddersfield Town fan and makes many references to supporting his local team in his book \"All Points North\".\n\nArmitage's poetry collections include \"Book of Matches\" (1993) and \"The Dead Sea Poems\" (1995). He has written two novels, \"Little Green Man\" (2001) and \"The White Stuff\" (2004), as well as \"All Points North\" (1998), a collection of essays on Northern England. He produced a dramatised version of Homer's Odyssey and a collection of poetry entitled \"Tyrannosaurus Rex Versus The Corduroy Kid\" (which was shortlisted for the T.S. Eliot Prize), both of which were published in July 2006. Many of Armitage's poems appear in the AQA (Assessment and Qualifications Alliance) GCSE syllabus for English Literature in the United Kingdom. These include \"Homecoming\",\"Extract from Out of the Blue\", \"November\", \"Kid\", \"Hitcher\", and a selection of poems from \"Book of Matches\", most notably of these \"Mother any distance...\".\n\nHis characterised by a dry Yorkshire wit combined with \"an accessible, realist style and critical seriousness.\" His translation of \"Sir Gawain and the Green Knight\" (2007), was adopted for the ninth edition of \"The Norton Anthology of English Literature\", and he was the narrator of a 2010 BBC documentary about the poem and its use of landscape.\nArmitage also writes for radio, television, film and stage. He is the author of four stage plays, including \"Mister Heracles\", a version of Euripides' \"The Madness of Heracles\". He has also written a fifth, \"The Last Days of Troy\", which premiered at Shakespeare's Globe in June 2014. He was commissioned in 1996 by the National Theatre in London to write \"Eclipse\" for the National Connections series, a play inspired by the real-life disappearance of a girl in Hebden Bridge, and set at the time of the 1999 solar eclipse in Cornwall.\n\nMost recently Armitage wrote the libretto for an opera scored by Scottish composer Stuart MacRae, \"The Assassin Tree\", based on a Greek myth recounted in \"The Golden Bough\". The opera premiered at the 2006 Edinburgh International Festival, Scotland, before moving to the Royal Opera House, Covent Garden, London. \"Saturday Night\" (Century Films, BBC2, 1996) – wrote and narrated a fifty-minute poetic commentary to a documentary about night-life in Leeds, directed by Brian Hill. In 2010, Armitage walked the 264-mile Pennine Way, walking south from Scotland to Derbyshire. Along the route he stopped to give poetry readings, often in exchange for donations of money, food or accommodation, despite the rejection of the free life seen in his 1993 poem, the Hitcher, and has written a book about his journey, called \"Walking Home\".\n\nHe has received numerous awards for his poetry, including \"The Sunday Times\" Author of the Year, a Forward Prize, a Lannan Award, and an Ivor Novello Award for his song lyrics in the Channel 4 film \"Feltham Sings\". \"Kid\" and \"CloudCuckooLand\" were short-listed for the Whitbread poetry prize. The \"Dead Sea Poems\" was short-listed for the Whitbread, the Forward Poetry Prize and the T. S. Eliot Prize. \"The Universal Home Doctor\" was also short-listed for the T.S. Eliot. In 2000, he was the UK's official Millennium Poet and went on to judge the 2005 Griffin Poetry Prize, the 2006 Man Booker Prize for Fiction and the 2010 Manchester Poetry Prize.\n\nIn 2004, Armitage was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of Literature and was appointed Commander of the Order of the British Empire (CBE) in the 2010 Birthday Honours. He is a vice president of the Poetry Society and a patron of the Arvon Foundation.\n\nIn 2007 he released an album of songs co-written with the musician Craig Smith, under the band name \"The Scaremongers\".\n\nFor the Stanza Stones Trail, which runs through of the Pennine region, Armitage composed six new poems on his walks. With the help of local expert Tom Lonsdale and letter-carver Pip Hall, the poems were carved into stones at secluded sites. A book, containing the poems and the accounts of Lonsdale and Hall, has been produced as a record of that journey and has been published by Enitharmon Press.\n\nIn 2016 the arts programme 14-18 NOW commissioned a series of poems by Simon Armitage as part of a five-year programme of new artwork created specifically to mark the centenary of the First World War. The poems are a response to six aerial or panoramic photographs of battlefields from the archive of the Imperial War Museum in London. The poetry collection \"Still\" premiered at the Norfolk & Norwich Festival and has been published in partnership with Enitharmon Press.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "326857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=326857", "title": "Situated learning", "text": "Situated learning\n\nSituated learning is a theory on how individuals acquire professional skills, extending research on apprenticeship into how legitimate peripheral participation leads to membership in a community of practice. Situated learning \"takes as its focus the relationship between learning and the social situation in which it occurs\".\n\nThe perspective can be contrasted with alternative views of learning: \"Rather than defining [learning] as the acquisition of propositional knowledge, Lave and Wenger situated learning in certain forms of social co-participation. Rather than asking what kinds of cognitive processes and conceptual structures are involved, they ask what kinds of social engagements provide the proper context for learning to take place\".\n\nSituated learning was first proposed by Jean Lave and Etienne Wenger as a model of learning in a community of practice. At its simplest, situated learning is learning that takes place in the same context in which it is applied. Lave and Wenger (1991) argue that learning is a social process whereby knowledge is co-constructed; they suggest that such learning is situated in a specific context and embedded within a particular social and physical environment.\n\nAgainst the prevalent view of learning that involves the cognitive process in which individuals are respectively engaged in as learners, Lave and Wenger viewed learning as participation in the social world, suggesting learning as an integral and inseparable aspect of social practice. According to their view of learning, learning is the process by which new comers become part of a community of practice and move forward full participation in it. Learners’ participation in the community of practice always entails situated negotiation and renegotiation of meaning in the word. They understand and experience the world through the constant interactions by which they reconstruct their identity (i.e., becoming a different person) and evolve the form of their membership in the community as the relations between new comers and old-timers who share the social practice change. In their view, motivation is situated because learners are naturally motivated by their growing value of participation and their desires to become full practitioners.\n\nLave and Wenger assert that situated learning \"is not an educational form, much less a pedagogical strategy\". However, since their writing, others have advocated different pedagogies that include experiential and situated activity:\n\nMany of the original examples from Lave and Wenger concerned adult learners, and situated learning still has a particular resonance for adult education. For example, Hansman shows how adult learners discover, shape, and make explicit their own knowledge through situated learning within a community of practice.\n\nIn the 2003 article \"The Nature of Situated Learning\", Paula Vincini argued that \"the theory behind situated learning or situated cognition arises from the fields of psychology, anthropology, sociology, and cognitive science.\" She summarized:\n\nThe seminal paper “Situated Cognition and the Culture of Learning” by John Seely Brown, Allan Collins, and Paul Duguid brought situated cognition to the forefront as an emerging instruction model. In this paper, the authors criticize public schooling for separating the “knowing and doing” and for treating knowledge “as an integral, self-sufficient substance, theoretically independent of the situations in which it is learned and used.”<br>Other theorists (Jean Lave, Etienne Wenger, Lev Vygotsky, John Dewey, and J. G. Greeno) associated with situated learning theory argue that knowledge must be taught in context and not in the abstract. Learners must use tools as practitioners use them and become “cognitive apprentices” in that discipline’s community and its culture.\n\nIn 1996 John R. Anderson et al. had traced back the origin of the concept to the \"cognitive revolution\" in the 1960s, They argued. \nFollowing on the so-called \"cognitive revolution\" in psychology that began in the 1960s, education, and particularly mathematics and science education, has been acquiring new insights from psychology, and new approaches and instructional techniques based on these insights. At the same time, cognitive psychologists have being paying increasing attention to education as an area of application of psychological knowledge and as a source of important research problems. There is every reason to believe that as research in cognitive psychology progresses and increasingly addresses itself to educational issues, even closer and more productive links can be formed between psychology and mathematics education.<br>However, there is a tendency now to present all manner of educational opinion as bearing a stamp of approval from cognitive psychology... as in many recent publications in mathematics education, much of what is described in that book reflects two movements, \"situated learning\" and \"constructivism\", which have been gaining influence on thinking about education and educational research.\n\nVincini (2003) continued to explain, that \"the social interaction that occurs in communities of practice between experts and novices is crucial to the theory of situated cognition or learning. In \"Situated Learning: Legitimate Peripheral Participation,\" Lave and Wenger emphasize that novices begin learning by observing members of the community and then slowly move from the periphery of the community to fully participating members.\"\n\nPut in terms developed by William Rankin , the major elements in situated learning are content (facts and processes of a task), context (situations, values, environmental cues), and community (the group where the learner will create and negotiate). Situated learning also involves participation (where a learner works together with others in order to solve a problem).\n\nSituated learning deals with how one's knowledge over the course of an activity and how they create and interpret .\n\nContent:\nIn situated learning, no importance is given to the retention of the content. Rather, situated learning stresses reflective and higher order thinking where the results are used in solving problems faced in daily life. Situated learning is thus more application-based.\n\nContext:\nContext provides a framework for the usage of the product or the result at the right time, place and situation in the social, psychological and material environment. Context creates a platform to examine the learning experiences.\n\nCommunity:\nCommunity helps the learner to create, interpret, reflect and form meanings. It provides opportunities to share experiences among learners and also to interact.\n\nParticipation:\nIt is where interchange of ideas, problem solving and engaging of the learners take place. This takes place in a social setting which includes reflecting, interpreting and negotiating among the participants of the community.\nSituated learning means to have a thought and action which is used at right time and place. In this approach the content is learnt through doing activities. It is dilemma-driven, it challenges the intellectual and psycho motor skills of a learner. Situated learning contributes on bringing about relationship between the classroom situations and real life situations outside classroom. \nIn adult classroom, the conditions are so created that its is complex and unclear, from which they again experiences and they learn.\nThere are four claims by Brown, Collins and Dugid:\n\n\nSituated learning was first projected by Jean Lave and Etienne Wenger as a model of learning in a community of practice. This type of learning allows an individual (students/learner) to learn by socialization, visualization, and imitation.\n\nLearning begins with people trying to solve problems. When learning is problem-based, people explore real life situations to find answers, or to solve the problems. Hung’s study focuses on how important being social is to learning.\n\nIn believing that learning is social, Hung adds that learners who gravitate to communities with shared interests tend to benefit from the knowledge of those who are more knowledgeable than they are. He also says that these social experiences provide people with authentic experiences. When students are in these real-life situations they are compelled to learn. Hung concludes that taking a problem-based learning approach to designing curriculum carries students to a higher level of thinking.\n\nIn the 2009 article \"Rethinking education in the age of technology\", Collins & Halverson argued:\n\nThe pedagogy of the lifelong-learning era is evolving toward reliance on interaction. Sometimes this involves interacting with a rich technological environment such as a computer tutor or a game on the web and sometimes with other people by means of a computer network. The pedagogy of computer tutors echoes the apprenticeship model in setting individualized tasks for learners and offering guidance and feedback as they work.\n\nSituated learning is becoming more involved with technology in ways to help individuals learn information differently than they have in the past. The model of learning a skill through technology mimics how individuals learned in the past from a professional in that skill. In the past when individuals learned about a particular topic it was done in person, in a hands-on environment. Technology makes it possible to do these same things using a computer or any other similar device. Interaction through the computer between individuals is one more way to make situated learning more successful as well as give students an opportunity to have another venue through which to learn. In fact,\n\n... an understanding of video games as learning environments is becoming increasingly important as gaming culture rivals schooling for the attention of children and adolescents across the world. James Paul Gee argues that the compelling nature of video game participation is in part due to the underlying social, cognitive, and developmental learning principles around which successful games are built. With this perspective, games and gaming can be a source for inspiration in building more effective learning environments.\n\nAllowing students to have the opportunity to participate, interact and inject their own ideas is a way to obviously grow and make informed decisions. Gee has proven this with the use of video games. It enables the learner to build their social and communication skills as well as develop their cognition abilities. Computer-based learning software such as SimCity has permitted users to utilize situated learning by allowing them to run their own city and become dictators whereby they have to make informed decisions which will either deteriorate their people or help them thrive. As stated, more effective learning environments are built this way.\n\nInstruction must be situated in an authentic context that resembles that of the classroom teacher to enrich their learning process by providing realistic experiences that more easily transfer.\n\nStudents process information by visualizing, hearing, reasoning and reflecting so they tend to learn more easily by having models to go by or imitate. In some study cases, teachers have gone as far as to make the classroom environment as homey as possible, whether it is a computerized set up or a physical set up. It gives the students the look and feel of being at home in a comfortable setting which allows them to feel and learn freely. It has been proven to have a great impact on the students learning abilities. This is another innovative way of utilizing situated learning.\n\nWhen today's students enter their post-education professional lives, odds are pretty good that they will be asked to work with others from around the globe collaboratively to create content for diverse and wide-ranging audiences. Odds are also pretty good that they are going to need to read and write effectively in linked environments as they locate, analyze, remix, and share the best, most relevant content online for their own learning.\n\nWhen students complete their education, they will be expected to use the skills they have learned throughout their educational career in the professional career. It is imperative that they are able to sufficiently utilize these skills to complete work goals. Through situated learning students will be able to learn the skills and also be able to accurately use the skills they have learned. Situated learning allows students to gain experience through doing in some way and from this experience they are able to be productive in their lives after they have graduated.\n\nSituated learning continues after graduation. According to Halverson (2009):\n\nAlmost any job-related skill can be taught by practicing the skill, and computer simulations can create immersive environments where the target skills are necessary for solving engaging problems.\n\nIn situations where situated learning is not possible, simulations can offer an alternative way to provide employees with an authentic learning experience. Situated learning allows employees to immediately apply what they've learned in the context of performing job-related tasks. Learning occurs among peers who perform the same function. Problem-solving and the generation of new ideas can be better supported in a social learning environment where all of the stakeholders experience the positive effects of ongoing learning. Often, the benefits of situated learning extend well beyond the immediate group of practitioners throughout the organization and the broader community. Richardson notes that, in an educational setting, teachers can use collaborative technologies in their own practice in order to gain a better understanding about how to integrate these technologies in the classroom.\n\nMany online learning courses still use the traditional teacher-directed, textbook oriented curriculum that is compartmentalized by discipline. Many universities have begun to recognize that authentic situation learning must occur in online courses. A key aspect is to recognize that the unit itself must be an authentic activity and not just made up of disjointed activities.\n\nThe learning environment needs to provide ill-defined activities which have real-world relevance, and which present a single complex task to be completed over a sustained period of time, rather than a series of shorter disconnected examples.\n\nUtley presents Hung's argument that:\n\n... learning embedded in rich situations assists adult learners to reflect on their actions, and discuss issues and problems with fellow members of a learning community.\n\nWhile it may be possible for adult learners to gain knowledge and apply theories presented in other learning environments to what they experience in a real-world setting, situated learning offers an opportunity to work with others in considering how to best apply new concepts related to the specific context of their practice. While theoretical knowledge provides a foundation, the insights and skills developed through authentic practice can lead to more meaningful learning.\n\nLearning centers are also making an impact on career education…Most of the participants are minorities, and a large proportion are African-American and Hispanic women. They range in age from 13 to 91, half of them between 20 and 31 years of age, but with a large number of teenagers as well. Most come to learn job skills and take classes at the centers, as well as to use the Internet facilities.\n\nThe increase in learning centers across the country is evidence of how the U.S., and the world really, has morphed into a society of continuing learners. Much of this learning is happening in centers described by Halverson and Collins. Examples of these learning centers, which are perfect examples of situated learning, include local libraries and job training centers. These learning centers are providing adults in particular with the kind of social interaction they need to extend their learning. This supports Hung's findings that people learn by simply being in certain situations with others.\nAs organizations re-evaluate how they accomplish necessary workplace training with limited funds, they depend on informal learning that occurs within specific areas of practice to ensure that employees develop the skills they need to be effective.\n\nReliance on structured, theoretical training programs, especially offered by third-party providers, is decreasing, and companies are finding ways to facilitate authentic learning opportunities within their communities of practice. Wagner notes that financial considerations have led to fewer managers, so organizations are looking to those who actually do the work for ideas about improving their products and services.\n\nThe issue of choosing between very abstract and very specific instruction can be viewed in the following way. If abstract training is given, learners must also absorb the money and time costs of obtaining supplemental training for each distinct application. But if very specific training is given, they must completely retrain for each application...).\n\nWhen determining whether abstract or specific instruction are going to be more productive it is important to look at which method will be most useful to the individuals that are learning the skill. If students receive specific instruction they are going to be capable of performing those set tasks only. When students are taught abstract instruction they are exposed to more skills that will be useful in helping them obtain a variety of jobs but at the same time they may have training that is not necessarily needed. When money is \"wasted\" by educating individuals on things that are not needed for their future it is possible to look at the situation and realize that the monies could have been of more use in giving another individual more specific instruction.\n\nIn the world of academics and policy wonks, however, a growing number of alarmist studies have appeared over the last several years about how much more unprepared young Americans are for the demands of work today than was the case twenty years ago. Workers entering the labor force in the United States are less educated than young people in many other countries...\n\nOur students are coming out of school unprepared and it seems that if they were in an educational setting where situated learning was implemented as much as possible, they would be better prepared for their futures. Based on Wagner's research we are less prepared than other countries as far as education goes, which is not necessarily something new, but it is definitely something that seems to far from changing. When our students are put into situations where they learn by doing they most likely will be more successful than if they were just told how something needed to be done.\n\nIn the 2010 article \"Blogs, wikis, podcasts and other powerful web tools for classrooms\", W. Richardson stipulated:\n\nThe act of writing in a Weblog, or 'blogging' can go a long way toward teaching skills such as research, organizations and the synthesis of ideas.\n\nTeachers/instructors have come to realize just how important it is to utilize the web as a teaching tool for the new generation of students (digital natives). One digital tool that can be used is a weblog. It gives the students an opportunity to think, research, and realize that they can write and have a voice that can be viewed and read by many who may or may not share the same idea. When students blog, they are creating journals/text entries which is considered to be English (writing) and reading; they also have the opportunity to utilize other learning tools such as videos, photos and other digital media.\n\nNetworked learning, in contrast, is committed to a vision of the social that stresses cooperation, interactivity, mutual benefit, and social engagement. The power of ten working interactively will invariably outstrip the power of one looking to beat out the other nine.\n\nSocial networks like Facebook, Twitter and Ning allow learners, once they move beyond the personal connections, to embrace a community where they can learn from each other. Social interaction is an important part of the learning process. As technology has grown and become an integral part of the lives of children, teens and young adults, older adults have been forced to adapt. For example, as more adults have been forced to move through the job market recently, they've turned to technology to develop new skills and to find work. Even fast-food restaurants require job seekers to complete employment applications online.\n\nBy the creation of visualizations, students learn to use different types of computer applications that will be useful as they select a direction for their future study.\n\nStudents learn in different manners and visualization or situated learning seems to be the most used of all learning styles. Students are able to mimic what they see and hear which enables them to retain information for the long term. Through visualizations of different types of computer applications; the student’s knowledge is defined by the social process of interacting and doing. It allows the students to learn naturally as a result of social behavior. The computer application acts as a guide while the students learn naturally from their own experience. As always, situated learning accelerates a student learning process and ability.\n\nWeb-based learning tools provide integrated environments of various technologies to support diverse educators and learners needs via the internet. The goals of these tools is to enhance face to face instruction and make distance learning are courses available. Each of these tools offer similar components, such as course note-posting, assignments submission, quizzes and communication features. The primary motivation for developing these tools is to make it easier for instructors who have very little knowledge of HTML and web navigation to put course materials on the web. There are significant drawbacks as well of using these tools. For example, these systems course instructors and course administrators to use predetermined navigation models and course format. These contstraints may have a negative impact on their flexibility and usability for administrators, teachers and students. A tool should be as such suitable for diverse courses campus-wide. Accordingly, a web-based learning tool should be able to provide facilities for courses, news and announcements, and area to store course notes and related information synchronous and asynchronous tools such as e-mail, bulletin board and chat facilities as well as features for creating and administering online quizzes and online submissions. Web tools also support inquiry-based learning suitable for teachers and students both involving the essence of inquiry-based learning.\nInquiry-based learning describes approaches to learning that are based on the investigation of questions, scenarios or problems-often assisted by a facilitator. Inquiries will understand and study issues and questions to improve their knowledge or solutions. It includes problem-based learning and is used in small-scale investigation and project as well as research. It will be much more beneficial for students because involvement in learning results in improvement of possessing skills and attitudes that permit you to seek solutions and issues while you build your new knowledge. There are numerous web tools that support inquiry-based learning which teachers can use effectively to make all students interact in the class.\n\nWeb-based learning tools are also referred to as learning objects, interactive web-based tools that support learning by enhancing, amplifying and guiding the cognitive processess of learners. It offers two noteworthy features that can reduce the impact of potential obstacles teachers face when using technology. Firstly it is designed to focus on specific concepts, making them easy to learn and use and more attractive to busy educators who have little time to learn more complex, advanced software packages. Ease of use also makes it more palatable to teachers who are apprehensive about using technology. Secondly a wide range of web-based learning tools exist including drill and practise assessment tools or tutorials, video case studies or supports, general web-based multimediaresources and self-contained interactive tools in a specific content area. In contrast with other learning technologies burdened with implementation challenges and costs, web-based learning tools are readily accessible over the net and teachers need not worry about extra cost or not having the latest version. It is speculated that the broad selection of readily accessible web-based learning tools will make it easier for teachers to integrate WBLT's into a classroom environment. Some of the best interactive web tools for educators.\n\nProject-based learning simulates the experiences that learners would have while performing the functions required in a job, which allows the opportunity to immediately apply what they've learned and benefit from an organization's existing knowledge base. With recent advances in technology, it is possible to facilitate the social aspects of learning by virtually connecting individuals within a distributed community of practice in the online environment.\n\nResearch shows that learners not only respond by feeding back information, but they also actively use what they know to explore, negotiate, interpret, and create. They construct solutions, thus shifting the emphasis toward the process of learning.\n\nWhile these are skills that teachers are trying to develop in young learners, adults have already developed and used these skills. They have sharpened these skills through work, higher education, raising children or through marriage. As lifelong learners dealing with real-life problems, a project-based approach is what develops when they come together with other adults at brick-and-mortar learning centers or in social networking communities on the web.\n\nSituated learning activities are collaborative and complex therefore traditional methods of assessment are not sufficient. Few of the trends followed in evaluating the situated learning could be:\nProcess includes the content so this can be assessed by few methods such as concept map and videotape coding.\nIt means that the answers by the learner should be able to accept and defend multiple perspectives.should measure the attitude, efficacy, perceptual skills and higher order thinking.\nCollaboration with technology will allow to track the students activities like time spent on planning, collecting information with respect to solve a problem etc.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37189417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37189417", "title": "Tagantsev conspiracy", "text": "Tagantsev conspiracy\n\nThe Tagantsev conspiracy (or the case of the Petrograd Military Organization) was a non-existent monarchist conspiracy fabricated by the Soviet secret police in 1921 to terrorize intellectuals who might be in a potential opposition to the ruling Bolshevik regime. As its result, more than 800 people, mostly from scientific and artistic communities in Petrograd (modern-day Saint Petersburg), were arrested on false terrorism charges, out of which 98 were executed and many were sent to concentration camps. Among the executed was the poet Nikolay Gumilev, the co-founder of the influential Acmeist movement. \n\nThe affair was named after Vladimir Nikolaevich Tagantsev, a geographer and member of the Russian Academy of Sciences, who was arrested, tortured, and tricked into disclosing hundreds of names of people who were critical the Bolshevik regime. The case was manufactured by Yakov Agranov, who later became one of the chief organizers of Stalinist show trials and the Great Purge in the 1930s. The case was officially declared \"fabricated\" and its victims rehabilitated by Russian authorities in 1992.\nIt is hotly debated if it was a real conspiracy by historians. \n\nOn December 5, 1920, all departments of the Soviet secret police Cheka received a top secret order from Feliks Dzerzhinsky to start creating false flag White Army organizations, \"underground and terrorist groups\" to facilitate finding \"foreign agents on our territory\". This was planned partially as a provocation, in order to identify potentially disloyal citizens who might wish to join the Bolsheviks' enemies. \n\nA few months later, in February 1921, the Kronstadt rebellion began. This was a left-wing uprising against the Bolshevik regime by soldiers and sailors. Additionally, the Bolsheviks understood that the majority of intelligentsia did not support them. On March 8, the Council of People's Commissars (Sovnarkom) send a letter to People's Commissariat for Education (Narkompros) asking to identify a group of unreliable intellectuals who could be a target of future repressions.\n\nOn June 4, Bolshevik leader Vladimir Lenin received a telegram from Leonid Krasin about a convention of monarchists, cadets and right-wing members of the Socialist-Revolutionary Party in Paris who anticipated an uprising against Bolsheviks in Petrograd. Lenin sent a telegram to Cheka co-founder Józef Unszlicht stating that he did not trust the Cheka in Petrograd any longer. In the telegram, he issued an order to urgently send \"the most experienced Chekists to Piter\" and find the conspirators. This was a signal for the Cheka in Petrograd to fabricate the case.\n\nOn May 31, Yuri German, a former officer of Imperial Russian Army and a Finnish spy, was killed while crossing the Finnish border. He had a notebook with numerous addresses, one of which belonged to professor Vladimir Tagantsev, who was previously identified by Cheka agents as an \"disloyal person\". Tagantsev and other people whose addresses were found in the notebook were arrested. During the next month the investigators of Cheka worked hard to manufacture the case, but without much success. The arrested refused to admit any guilt. After intense interrogation, Tagantsev tried to hang himself on June 21. In addition, it was difficult to connect together so many completely unrelated people. \n\nOn June 25, two investigators of Petrograd Cheka, Gubin and Popov, prepared a report, according to which the \"organization included only Tagantsev and a few couriers and supporters,\" the conspirators planned \"to establish common language between intelligentsia and masses,\" the \"terror was not their intention,\" and German delivered news about current events to Tagantsev from abroad. According to report, \"the organization of Tagantsev had no connection and received no support from the Finnish or other counter-intelligence organizations.\" The report also noted that \"Tagantsev is a cabinet scientist who thought about his organization theoretically\" and \"was incapable of doing practical work.\" After this report, names of Gubin and Popov disappeared from the case, meaning they have been replaced by other investigators.\n\nAfter the initial failure, Yakov Agranov was appointed to lead the case. He arrested more people and took Tagantsev for interrogation after keeping him for 45 days in solitary confinement. Agranov gave an ultimatum; if Tagantsev did not confess, then he and all other hostages would be executed after three hours, however, no one would be harmed if he agreed to cooperate. According to publications by Russian emigrants, the agreement was even signed on paper and personally guaranteed by Vyacheslav Menzhinsky. After signing the agreement, Tagantsev called names of several hundred people who criticized the Bolshevik regime. All of them were arrested on July 31 and during the first days of August. \n\nAccording to official version invented by Agranov, the leaders of conspiracy included Tagantsev, Finnish spy German, and former colonel of Russian army Vycheslav Shvedov who acted under pseudonym \"Vyacheslavsky\" and shot two Chekists during his arrest. To make the conspiracy bigger, they included many completely unrelated people, including former aristocrats, contrabandists, suspicious people and wives of those who were already arrested. The newspaper \"The Petrograd Pravda\" published a report by the Petrograd Cheka that the military organization of Tagantsev planned to burn plants, kill people and commit other terrorism acts using weapons and dynamite. \nThe most famous victim of the case was the poet Nikolay Gumilev. Gumilev was arrested by Cheka on August 3. He admitted that he thought about joining the Kronstadt rebellion if it were to spread to Petrograd and talked about this with Vyacheslavsky. Gumilev was executed by a firing squad, together with 60 other people on August 24 in the Kovalevsky Forest. Thirty-seven others were shot on October 3. Agranov commented about the operation: \"Seventy percent of the Petrograd intelligentsia had one leg in the enemy camp. We had to burn that leg.\"\n\nThe action reportedly failed to terrify the population. According to academician Vladimir Vernadsky, the case \"had a shocking effect and produced not a feeling of fear, but of hatred and contempt\" against the Bolsheviks. After the Tagantsev case Lenin decided that it would be easier to exile undesired intellectuals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16939285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16939285", "title": "TinkerPlots", "text": "TinkerPlots\n\nTinkerPlots is exploratory data analysis and modeling software designed for use by students in grades 4 through university. It was designed by Clifford Konold and Craig Miller at the University of Massachusetts Amherst and is currently published by the Learn Troop. It runs on Windows XP or later and Mac OS 10.4 or later. The program allows users to enter their own data, to import them from other applications or the Web, or to generate them using a sampling engine. The program also comes with 50 multivariate data sets.\n\nUsing TinkerPlots, students can make a large variety of graphs, including those specified for middle school in Common Core State Standards for Mathematics But rather than making these graphs directly using commands, students construct them by progressively organizing cases using basic operations including “stack,” “order,” and “separate.” Responding to these operations, case icons animate into different screen positions. The interface was based on observations of people organizing “data cards” on a table to make graphs to answer specific questions \n\nInnovations of TinkerPlots include using a superimposed color gradient to detect covariation in two numeric attributes and a “hat plot,” a reformulated and generalized version of the box plot.\n\nThe latest version is 2.3.4. This version does not have substantively different features from versions 2.1 and 2.2, but has a number of bug fixes and enhancements to remain compatible with the latest versions of Windows and MacOS.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2599076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2599076", "title": "University of Jordan", "text": "University of Jordan\n\nThe University of Jordan (), often abbreviated UJ, is a state-supported university located in Amman, Jordan. Founded in 1962, it is the largest and oldest institution of higher education in Jordan.\n\nThe university has the highest admission averages in the country and is considered the premier university in Jordan and one of the most prestigious in the Arab world and the Middle East. It is located in the Jubaiha area of the University District in Amman. The university currently employs about 1400 faculty staff and has more than 37,000 enrolled students.\n\nThe university was established in 1962 by a royal decree in northern Amman at that time. The area surrounding the university is one of the metropolitan districts of Amman and is called the University District.\n\nThe University of Jordan offers undergraduate and graduate degrees in 20 colleges (faculties) and institutes:\n\n\n\nInstitutes:\nCenters:\nDirected at offering courses of Arabic language as a foreign language.\nOne of 10 academies in the world that regulate Arabic language and literature. The academy is considered one of the world's top references for Arabic language and Arabic literature. The main publication of the academy is the biannual journal \"The Journal of Jordan Academy of Arabic\" (), as well as many dictionaries and other publications.\nEstablished in 1982, it provides support for researchers on Islamic studies, it also organizes courses and seminars for Islamic history and literature scholars.\nEstablished in 1972 to promote the study of Arabic and Islamic heritage, and to provide researchers with original and primary sources. The CDM library boasts 31,000 manuscripts.\nThe objective of the establishment of the center is to provide research in water management and environment on the regional and international level.\nThe University of Jordan launched its first graduate program in 1968/69, it was an MA program in Educational Administration and Guidance,\nthe faculty cooperates with:\n\nThe center was established in 1998 aiming to perform political and economical studies on the national and regional level. The center also performs polls with high levels of accuracy. The center occasionally performs studies for Aljazeera.\n\nThe university hospital was established in 1973. The university has also affiliations with King Hussein Cancer Center, which was the first Cancer Center outside of the United States to be accredited by the JCI Disease Specific Certification (DSC) - (November 2007).\n\nThe University research facilities contain collections of historic documents and manuscripts as well as fossil remains that are considered to be of valuable importance for the scientific community, \"to provide primary and secondary sources for researchers\", among which are the world's only discovered fossil bones of the Arambourgiania pterosaur.\n\nAccording to \"Nature\" journal, Jordan has the highest number of researchers per million people in the Arab World, and the 30th worldwide. In its objective to promote scientific research, the Jordanian Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research established collaboration with the University of Jordan Deanship of Academic Research in the early 1990s to publish several internationally peer-reviewed scientific journals on the highest standards in applied and social sciences as well as medical and pharmaceutical sciences. These journals are:\n\nThe University of Jordan Press issues the internationally peer-reviewed Dirasat Journal series, and several other journals in Arabic literature, Arabic and Middle Eastern history, and regional culture:\n\nIn 2017, Times Higher Education ranked the university within the 801-1000 band globally and 201-250th for BRICS and Emerging Economies. In the same year, QS has ranked the university in the 551-600 band in the world, ninth in the Arab world and 301-500 in graduate employability globally.\n\nThe University of Jordan has hundreds of agreements mostly for student exchange programs, of which 16 agreements are with universities in the United States such as Vanderbilt University and Murray State University.\n\n\nThe University of Jordan Student Union is the University's student body. A student council, formally called \"Student Union\" of 80 members is elected annually. It acts as a liaison between the students and the university administration on matters of major concern to students. It also publishes the student monthly Sawt al-Talaba (The Students' Voice).\n\nThe regulations governing the Student Union have been subject to several revisions and major changes since its conception. The latest version of these regulations was written by a committee of both students (Hamdoon Khateeb, Malek Khalaileh, Khaled Gabba, Yasmeen AbuTaleb, Issam Khoury) and faculty members (Dr. Ali Mahafzah, Dr. Ali Badran, Dr. Ali Sawwa) and put into effect in 2008.\n\nGraduates from UJ have attained positions in many fields in many countries including government, science, business, literature, and military. Some notable alumni are:\n\nUniversity of Jordan map\n\n"}
{"id": "48306554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48306554", "title": "WikiToLearn", "text": "WikiToLearn\n\nWikiToLearn is a collaborative, international, free knowledge project, run entirely by volunteers, and dedicated to the creation of free and accessible textbooks for higher education. In December 2013 it joined the KDE Project through its incubation process with multiple sponsors like Wikimedia Italia.\n\nWikiToLearn started as WikiFM in Milan by a group of science students from the University of Milan Bicocca on the May 1, 2012. WikiFM was originally launched as a private wiki for exchange of links, suggestions and other information related to studying at the University of Milan Bicocca.\n\nIn May 2013 the website has been publicly announced using some money destined to student associations of the University of Milan Bicocca. For this historical reason, while the project has an international aim, the bulk of the oldest content is in Italian.\n\nIn September 2013 WikiFM received the sponsorship of Wikimedia Italia. In December 2013, WikiFM officially joined the KDE project, by entering, as first project, KDE's incubator program. It was later advertised by the KDE project as one of its most important success stories.\n\n2015 has been the turning point for the project. The key event happened during KDE’s annual conference, Akademy. In July 2015, Riccardo Iaconelli has given a speech on the WikiFM project in order to submit it to the attention of the international community. On this occasion, the website has enriched to accommodate multiple languages, to embrace a larger number of people using their native language.\nFollowing the initial feedback, WikiFM was subsequently renamed to WikiToLearn. The project thus started to gather a more official attention from educational institutions. The first foundation interested in using WikiToLearn as a training/tutoring platform has been the High Energy Physics Software Foundation, which experimentally tried its own section on the English website.\nSeveral professors from different institutions have subsequently started to collaborate on WikiToLearn, like CERN, HSF, and Fermilab.\nIn September 2015, the University of Milano-Bicocca became the first institution to officially back the project, asking professors and students to populate the portal with educational content.\n\nThe goal of WikiToLearn is to provide free, collaborative and accessible textbooks for the whole world, with a focus on training and didactics. To reach this goal, the project relies on the combined effort of many volunteers in the academic world.\n\nContent are written by both students, who ideally start to create textbooks while studying the subject in question, and professors, who provide thorough fact-checking and accuracy.\n\nGiven the deep technical nature of the topics, there is a complex review and rating system under review to try to measure the quality of the individual articles.\n\n\n"}
