{"id": "26436816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26436816", "title": "3D composites", "text": "3D composites\n\nThree-dimensional composites utilize fiber preforms constructed from yarns or tows arranged into complex three-dimensional structures. These can be created from a 3D weaving process, a 3D braiding process, or a 3D lay of short fibers. A resin is applied to the 3D preform to create the composite material. Three-dimensional composites are utilized in highly engineered and highly technical applications in order to achieve complex mechanical properties. Three-dimensional composites are engineered to react to stresses and strains in ways that are not possible with traditional composite materials composed of single direction tows, or woven composites, or stacked laminate materials.\n\nThree dimensional woven fabrics are fabrics that could be formed to near net shape with considerable thickness. There is no need for layering to create a part, because a single fabric provides the full three-dimensional reinforcement. The 3-D woven fabric is a variant of the 2D weaving process, and it’s an extension of the very old technique of creating double and triple woven cloth. 3D weaving allows the production of fabrics up to 10 cm in thickness.\nFibers placed in the thickness direction are called z-yarn, warp weaver, or binder yarn for 3D woven fabrics. More than one layer of fabric is woven at the same time, and z-yarn interlaces warp and woof yarns of different layers during the process. At the end of the weaving process, an integrated 3D woven structure, which has a considerable thickness, is produced. Three-dimensional woven structures can create composite materials with fiber volume fractions around 50% in both 3D unit cell and 3D orthogonal structures.\n\nAngle-interlock three-dimensional woven structures are also common in order to create much thicker woven preforms. In the interlock structures yarns can be woven from one layer of yarns to another and then back to the original layer to lock adjacent layers to each other. In complex interlock structures yarns may be woven at specified points into several layers in order to join multiple layers. These structures have a great advantage over laminated materials because of their excellent resistance to layer delamination.\n\nBy using jacquard woven techniques such as bifurcation, the 3D woven preforms can be created into nearly endless shapes ranging from a standard I-Beam to a complex Sine-Curve I-Beam, to Aircraft Airfoils, and many other shapes. 3D woven composites, finished with resin transfer molding have been produced larger than 26 feet long.\n\n3D woven composites are used for various engineering applications, including engine rotors, rocket nose cones and nozzles, engine mounts, aircraft framework, T- and X-shape panels, leading edges for aircraft wings, and I-Beams for civil infrastructure.\n\nThere are several types of 3D woven fabrics that are commercially available; they can be classified according to their weaving technique.\n\n\n\n“3D braided fabrics technology is an extension of the well-established 2-D braiding technology wherein the fabric is constructed by the intertwining of two or more yarn systems to form an integral structure.” Developed in the late 1960s, in an effort to circumvent the problems related to 2D composite laminates yet at the same time retain the benefits of the braiding process. Braided structures, used as composite preforms, have a number of advantages over other competing processes, such as filament winding and weaving.\n\nBraided composites have superior toughness and fatigue strength in comparison to filament wound composites. Woven fabrics have orthogonal interlacement while the braids can be constructed over a wide range of angles, from 10 to 858. An additional set of axial yarns can be introduced to the braiding process to produce triaxial braids (Fig. 1); triaxial braids are more stable and exhibit nearly isotropic properties.\n\nBraids can be produced either as seamless tubes or flat fabrics with a continuous selvedge. Composites produced with the braided preforms exhibit superior strength and crack resistance in comparison to broadcloth composites, due to fiber continuity; Composites with braided holes (Fig.2) exhibit about 1.8 times the strength in comparison to drilled holes, again due to fiber continuity.\n\nThere are two main types of 3D braiders, horn gear and track and column types. Horn gear type 3D braiders use a large number of traditional horn gears for carrier propulsion. By arranging the horn gears in a square, 3D solid braids with a variety of cross-sections (e.g. H section) can be produced.\n\nApplications of 3D Braided Composites\n\nThe stitching of laminates in the through thickness direction with a high strength thread has proven a simple, low-cost method for producing 3-D composites. The stitching process basically involves sewing high tensile strength yarn (e.g. glass, carbon or Kevlar®), through an uncured prepreg laminate or dry fabric plies using an industrial sewing machine.\nStudies report an improvement to in-plane mechanical properties due to stitching, whereas others find unchanged or degraded properties.The data assembled for stitched laminates reveal that the tension, compression, flexure, shear and open-hole strengths are improved or degraded up to 20% by stitching relative to those of unstitched laminates.\n\nApplications of 3D Stitched Composites\n\nThis alternative method to the standard stitching process was first introduced in the late 1980s and was commercially developed by the company Aztex as Z-Fiber™ technology. “This technology consists of embedding previously cured reinforcement fibers into a thermoplastic foam that is then placed on top of a prepreg, or dry fabric, lay-up and vacuum bagged.” 12 The foam will collapse as temperature and pressure are increased, which allows the fibers to be slowly pushed into the lay-up. 3D reinforcement in regards to Z-pinning is necessary to introduce a mechanical link between the different plies of the composite lamina, this link being a stiff carbon fiber rod in Z-pinning. Z-pin (carbon fiber of small diameter embedded in the thickness direction-z) composites are a means to provide higher through-the-thickness stiffness and strength that 2D woven composites do not possess.\n\nApplication of 3D Z-Pinned Composites\n\nMany Three-Dimensional preforms are transformed into complex composite materials when a resin is applied and cured within the preform to create a solid fiber reinforced matrix. The most common form of resin application for 3D preforms is the Resin Transfer Molding process where a mold is created in the shape of a preform and the preform is then placed inside. The mold is closed and then the resin of the matrix material is injected under particular temperature and pressure, then allowed to cure. the mold is then removed from the exterior of the 3D composite material.\n\nThe microstructure of a 3D woven composite is mainly determined by the fiber architecture to the woven preform and weaving process, and to a lesser extent by the process of consolidation.Various types of defects are inadvertently created during the 3D weaving process that can possibly degrade the in-plane, through-thickness, and impact properties of the 3D composite. Research has found that testing various 3D composite materials that “ ...the strength is the same or slightly higher than an equivalent two-dimensional (2D) material.” When compared to a 2D composite, the impact resistance, compression after impact (CAI), and delamination control is significantly improved with a 3D composite without significantly reducing the mechanical properties along the plane.\n"}
{"id": "3221992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3221992", "title": "Banked turn", "text": "Banked turn\n\nA banked turn (or banking turn) is a turn or change of direction in which the vehicle banks or inclines, usually towards the inside of the turn. For a road or railroad this is usually due to the roadbed having a transverse down-slope towards the inside of the curve. The bank angle is the angle at which the vehicle is inclined about its longitudinal axis with respect to the horizontal.\n\nIf the bank angle is zero, the surface is flat and the normal force is vertically upward. The only force keeping the vehicle turning on its path is friction, or traction. This must be large enough to provide the centripetal force, a relationship which can be expressed as an inequality, assuming the car is driving in a circle of radius \"r\":\n\nThe expression on the right hand side is the centripetal acceleration multiplied by mass, the force required to turn the vehicle. The left hand side is the maximum frictional force, which equals the coefficient of friction \"μ\" multiplied by the normal force. Rearranging the maximum cornering speed is\n\nNote that \"μ\" can be the coefficient for static or dynamic friction. In the latter case, where the vehicle is skidding around a bend, the friction is at its limit and the inequalities becomes equations. This also ignores effects such as downforce which can increase the normal force and cornering speed.\n\nAs opposed to a vehicle riding along a flat circle, inclined edges add an additional force that keeps the vehicle in its path and prevents a car from being \"dragged into\" or \"pushed out of\" the circle (or a railroad wheel from moving sideways so as to nearly rub on the wheel flange). This force is the horizontal component of the vehicle's normal force. In the absence of friction, the normal force is the only one acting on the vehicle in the direction of the center of the circle. Therefore, as per Newton's second law, we can set the horizontal component of the normal force equal to mass multiplied by centripetal acceleration:\n\nBecause there is no motion in the vertical direction, the sum of all vertical forces acting on the system must be zero. Therefore, we can set the vertical component of the vehicles's normal force equal to its weight:\n\nSolving the above equation for the normal force and substituting this value into our previous equation, we get:\n\nThis is equivalent to:\n\nSolving for velocity we have:\n\nThis provides the velocity that in the absence of friction and with a given angle of incline and radius of curvature, will ensure that the vehicle will remain in its designated path. The magnitude of this velocity is also known as the \"rated speed\" (or \"balancing speed\" for railroads) of a turn or curve. Notice that the rated speed of the curve is the same for all massive objects, and a curve that is not inclined will have a rated speed of 0.\n\nWhen considering the effects of friction on the system, once again we need to note which way the friction force is pointing. When calculating a maximum velocity for our automobile, friction will point down the incline and towards the center of the circle. Therefore, we must add the horizontal component of friction to that of the normal force. The sum of these two forces is our new net force in the direction of the center of the turn (the centripetal force):\n\nOnce again, there is no motion in the vertical direction, allowing us to set all opposing vertical forces equal to one another. These forces include the vertical component of the normal force pointing upwards and both the car's weight and the vertical component of friction pointing downwards:\n\nBy solving the above equation for mass and substituting this value into our previous equation we get:\n\nSolving for v we get:\n\nThis equation provides the maximum velocity for the automobile with the given angle of incline, coefficient of static friction and radius of curvature. By a similar analysis of minimum velocity, the following equation is rendered:\n\nThe difference in the latter analysis comes when considering the direction of friction for the minimum velocity of the automobile (towards the outside of the circle). Consequently, opposite operations are performed when inserting friction into equations for forces in the centripetal and vertical directions.\n\nImproperly banked road curves increase the risk of run-off-road and head-on crashes. A 2% deficiency in superelevation (say, 4% superelevation on a curve that should have 6%) can be expected to increase crash frequency by 6%, and a 5% deficiency will increase it by 15%. Up until now, highway engineers have been without efficient tools to identify improperly banked curves and to design relevant mitigating road actions. A modern profilograph can provide data of both road curvature and cross slope (angle of incline). A practical demonstration of how to evaluate improperly banked turns was developed in the EU Roadex III project. See the linked referenced document below.\n\nWhen a fixed-wing aircraft is making a turn (changing its direction) the aircraft must roll to a banked position so that its wings are angled towards the desired direction of the turn. When the turn has been completed the aircraft must roll back to the wings-level position in order to resume straight flight.\n\nWhen any moving vehicle is making a turn, it is necessary for the forces acting on the vehicle to add up to a net inward force, to cause centripetal acceleration. In the case of an aircraft making a turn, the force causing centripetal acceleration is the horizontal component of the lift acting on the aircraft.\n\nIn straight, level flight, the lift acting on the aircraft acts vertically upwards to counteract the weight of the aircraft which acts downwards. During a balanced turn where the angle of bank is \"θ\" the lift acts at an angle \"θ\" away from the vertical. It is useful to resolve the lift into a vertical component and a horizontal component. If the aircraft is to continue in level flight (i.e. at constant altitude), the vertical component must continue to equal the weight of the aircraft and so the pilot must pull back on the stick a little more. The total (now angled) lift is greater than the weight of the aircraft so the vertical component can equal the weight. The horizontal component is unbalanced, and is thus the net force causing the aircraft to accelerate inward and execute the turn.\n\nBecause centripetal acceleration is:\n\nNewton's second law in the horizontal direction can be expressed mathematically as:\n\nwhere:\n\nIn straight level flight, lift is equal to the aircraft weight. In turning flight the lift exceeds the aircraft weight, and is equal to the weight of the aircraft (\"mg\") divided by the cosine of the angle of bank:\n\nwhere \"g\" is the gravitational field strength.\n\nThe radius of the turn can now be calculated:\n\nThis formula shows that the radius of turn is proportional to the square of the aircraft’s true airspeed. With a higher airspeed the radius of turn is larger, and with a lower airspeed the radius is smaller.\n\nThis formula also shows that the radius of turn decreases with the angle of bank. With a higher angle of bank the radius of turn is smaller, and with a lower angle of bank the radius is greater.\n\nIn a banked turn at constant altitude, the \"load factor\" is equal to 1/cosθ. We can see that the load factor in straight and level flight is 1, since cos(0) = 1, and to generate sufficient lift to maintain constant altitude, the load factor must approach infinity as the bank angle approaches 90° and cosθ approaches zero. This is physically impossible, because structural limitations of the aircraft or physical endurance of the occupants will be exceeded well before then.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26779825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26779825", "title": "Black hole bomb", "text": "Black hole bomb\n\nA black hole bomb is the name given to a physical effect utilizing how a bosonic field impinging on a rotating black hole can be amplified through superradiant scattering. An additional condition which must be met is that the field must have a rest mass different from zero. The scattered wave will then be reflected back and forth between the mass term and the black hole becoming amplified on each reflection. The growth of the field is asserted to be exponential and unstable. The mechanism by which the black hole bomb functions is called superradiant instability.\n\nThe idea that angular momentum and energy may be transferred from a rotating black hole to a particle being scattered by it was proposed by Roger Penrose in 1971. The first discussion of a runaway effect, the black hole bomb, was explored by W. H. Press and S. A. Teukolsky in 1972. If such an effect were to spontaneously occur, it may point to new physics beyond the Standard Model, and showing that black holes have \"hair\", as pointed out by a paper from 2017, by William E. East and Frans Pretorius.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28856223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28856223", "title": "Borzești II Power Station", "text": "Borzești II Power Station\n\nThe Borzeşti II Power Station is a large thermal power plant located in Borzeşti, having 5 generation groups of 50 MW each having a total electricity generation capacity of 250 MW.\n\n"}
{"id": "6854424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6854424", "title": "Center for Environmental Technology", "text": "Center for Environmental Technology\n\nThe Center for Environmental Technology or CET, formerly known as the Environmental Technology Laboratory of NOAA, US Department of Commerce, is a joint center between the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) and the University of Colorado, which designs some of the most sensitive radio receivers in the world for active and passive microwave observation of terrestrial and atmospheric phenomena.\n\n"}
{"id": "47008203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47008203", "title": "Complex oxide", "text": "Complex oxide\n\nA complex oxide is a chemical compound that contains oxygen and at least two other elements (or oxygen and just one other element that's in at least two oxidation states). Complex oxide materials are notable for their wide range of magnetic and electronic properties, such as ferromagnetism, ferroelectricity, and high-temperature superconductivity. These properties often come from their strongly correlated electrons in d or f orbitals.\n\nMany minerals found in the ground are complex oxides. Commonly studied mineral crystal families include spinels and perovskites.\n\nComplex oxide materials are used in a variety of commercial applications.\n\nMagnets made of the complex oxide ferrite are commonly used in transformer cores and in inductors. Ferrites are ideal for these applications because they are magnetic, electrically insulating, and inexpensive.\n\nPiezoelectric transducers and actuators are often made of the complex oxide PZT (lead zirconate titanate). These transducers are used in applications such ultrasound imaging and some microphones. PZT is also sometimes used for piezo ignition in lighters and gas grills.\n\nComplex oxide materials are the dominant dielectric material in ceramic capacitors. About one trillion ceramic capacitors are produced each year to be used in electronic equipment.\n\nSolid oxide fuel cells often use complex oxide materials as their electrolytes, anodes, and cathodes.\n\nMany precious gemstones, such as emerald and topaz, are complex oxide crystals. Historically, some complex oxide materials (such as strontium titanate, yttrium aluminium garnet, and gadolinium gallium garnet) were also synthesized as inexpensive diamond simulants, though after 1976 they were mostly eclipsed by cubic zirconia.\n\nAs of 2015, there is research underway to commercialize complex oxides in new kinds of electronic devices, such as ReRAM, FeRAM, and memristors. Complex oxide materials are also being researched for their use in spintronics.\n\nAnother potential application of complex oxide materials is superconducting power lines. A few companies have invested in pilot projects, but the technology is not widespread.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25003895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25003895", "title": "Corydoras punctatus", "text": "Corydoras punctatus\n\nCorydoras punctatus (spotted catfish) is a species of catfish found in the Suriname river basin and Iracoubo river basin in tropical Suriname and French Guiana. The species is rarely seen. It is hard to tell the sex of the fish until they are an adult. The species can breed easily. The species eat many foods including shrimp pellets, blood worms, brine shrimp, and pre-soaked flake food. \"Corydoras punctatus\" is a social fish.\n\n"}
{"id": "45300641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45300641", "title": "Eldar Sætre", "text": "Eldar Sætre\n\nEldar Sætre (born 8 February 1956) is a Norwegian businessman who since February 2015 is CEO of Equinor, holding the position interim from October 2014.\n\nSætre was born in Vartdal in Ørsta, son of a carpenter. He holds a master's degree from Norwegian School of Economics.\n\nHe joined Equinor (then Statoil) in 1980. He was central in the listing of the company on the Oslo Stock Exchange and New York Stock Exchange in 1981, following a privatization of Statoil. He has been part of the Executive board since 2003, first as CFO and from 2010 to 2014 as director of Marketing, Processing and Renewable energy. As CFO he played a major role in the merger of Statoil with Hydro Oil & Gas in 2007. He has also been responsible for Statoil's marketing strategy for natural gas sale in Europe.\n\nAt the resignation of Helge Lund as CEO in 2014, Sætre was made interim CEO. He denied any interest in taking on the position permanently, but changed his mind after being asked by the board in December 2014.\n\nHe is, as of February 2015, a board member of Strømberg Gruppen and Trucknor.\n\nHe lives in Sandnes.\n\n"}
{"id": "47168470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47168470", "title": "Emery Tales", "text": "Emery Tales\n\nEmery Tales is a 2015 Greek documentary film written and directed by Susanne Bausinger and Stelios Efstathopoulos. Set on the island of Naxos, the film illustrates the declining emery industry in an isolated and struggling mining community.\n\nThe film premiered at the Thessaloniki Documentary Festival on March 3, 2015.\n\nIn 2014, a group of miners try to mine as much \"smyrigli\", or emery, as possible in the mountain of Naxos. They are only able to mine two or three times every year. Apeiranthos, their community on the island, is dwindling due to its dwellers transferring to other more beneficial places in Greece.\n\n\"Emery Tales\" was written and directed by Susanne Bausinger and Stelios Efstathopoulos, the former being a German director. The film is a co-production of Faos TV Productions with Roll Productions, a studio founded by the film's editor.\n\n\"Emery Tales\" premiered at the Thessaloniki Documentary Festival on March 3, 2015. It was also screened at the 42 Ekotopfilm Bratislava Documentary Festival on May 29, 2015, and at the World Premieres Film Festival Philippines 2015 in the \"Cine Verde\" section on June 30, 2015.\n"}
{"id": "21750314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21750314", "title": "Energy Direct", "text": "Energy Direct\n\nEnergy Direct NZ Ltd is a retailer of electricity and gas in New Zealand. It has been owned by Trustpower since mid-2013. Previously it was a trading division of the Wanganui Gas Company Limited, which is wholly owned by the Wanganui District Council.\n\nIn 2011, Consumer rated Energy Direct as one of the top power companies in New Zealand, in its annual survey.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46828", "title": "Fertilisation", "text": "Fertilisation\n\nFertilisation or fertilization (see spelling differences), also known as generative fertilisation, insemination, pollination, fecundation, syngamy and impregnation, is the fusion of gametes to initiate the development of a new individual organism. The cycle of fertilisation and development of new individuals is called sexual reproduction. During double fertilisation in angiosperms the haploid male gamete combines with two haploid polar nuclei to form a triploid primary endosperm nucleus by the process of vegetative fertilisation.\n\nIn Antiquity, Aristotle conceived the formation of new individuals through fusion of male and female fluids, with form and function emerging gradually, in a mode called by him as epigenetic.\n\nIn 1784, Spallanzani established the need of interaction between the female's ovum and male's sperm to form a zygote in frogs. In 1827, von Baer observed a mammalian egg for the first time. Oscar Hertwig (1876), in Germany, described the fusion of nuclei of spermatozoa and of ova from sea urchin.\n\nThe evolution of fertilisation is related to the origin of meiosis, as both are part of sexual reproduction, originated in eukaryotes. There are two conflicting theories on how the couple meiosis–fertilisation arose. One is that it evolved from prokaryotic sex (bacterial recombination) as eukaryotes evolved from prokaryotes. The other is that mitosis originated meiosis.\n\nThe gametes that participate in fertilisation of plants are the pollen (male), and the egg (female) cell. Various families of plants have differing methods by which the female gametophyte is fertilized. In Bryophyte land plants, fertilisation takes place within the archegonium. In flowering plants a second fertilisation event involves another sperm cell and the central cell which is a second female gamete. In flowering plants there are two sperm from each pollen grain.In seed plants, after pollination, a pollen grain germinates, and a pollen tube grows and penetrates the ovule through a tiny pore called a micropyle. The sperm are transferred from the pollen through the pollen tube to the ovule.\n\nPollen tube growth\n\nUnlike animal sperm which is motile, plant sperm is immotile and relies on the pollen tube to carry it to the ovule where the sperm is released. The pollen tube penetrates the stigma and elongates through the extracellular matrix of the style before reaching the ovary. Then near the receptacle, it breaks through the ovule through the micropyle (an opening in the ovule wall) and the pollen tube \"bursts\" into the embryo sac, releasing sperm. The growth of the pollen tube has been believed to depend on chemical cues from the pistil, however these mechanisms were poorly understood until 1995. Work done on tobacco plants revealed a family of glycoproteins called TTS proteins that enhanced growth of pollen tubes. Pollen tubes in a sugar free pollen germination medium and a medium with purified TTS proteins both grew. However, in the TTS medium, the tubes grew at a rate 3x that of the sugar-free medium. TTS proteins were also placed on various locations of semi in vevo pollinated pistils, and pollen tubes were observed to immediately extend toward the proteins. Transgenic plants lacking the ability to produce TTS proteins exhibited slower pollen tube growth and reduced fertility.\n\nRupture of pollen tube\n\nThe rupture of the pollen tube to release sperm in \"Arabidopsis\" has been shown to depend on a signal from the female gametophyte. Specific proteins called FER protein kinases present in the ovule control the production of highly reactive derivatives of oxygen called reactive oxygen species (ROS). ROS levels have been shown via GFP to be at their highest during floral stages when the ovule is the most receptive to pollen tubes, and lowest during times of development and following fertilization. High amounts of ROS activate Calcium ion channels in the pollen tube, causing these channels to take up Calcium ions in large amounts. This increased uptake of calcium causes the pollen tube to rupture, and release its sperm into the ovule. Pistil feeding assays in which plants were fed diphenyl iodonium chloride (DPI) suppressed ROS concentrations in \"Arabidopsis\", which in turn prevented pollen tube rupture.\nBryophyte is a traditional name used to refer to all embryophytes (land plants) that do not have true vascular tissue and are therefore called \"non-vascular plants\". Some bryophytes do have specialised tissues for the transport of water; however, since these do not contain lignin, they are not considered true vascular tissue.\nA fern is a member of a group of roughly 12,000 species of vascular plants that reproduce via spores and have neither seeds nor flowers. They differ from mosses by being vascular (i.e. having water-conducting vessels). They have stems and leaves, like other vascular plants. Most ferns have what are called fiddleheads that expand into fronds, which are each delicately divided.\nThe gymnosperms are a group of seed producing plants that includes conifers, Cycads, Ginkgo, and Gnetales. The term \"gymnosperm\" comes from the Greek composite word γυμνόσπερμος (γυμνός gymnos, \"naked\" and σπέρμα sperma, \"seed\"), meaning \"naked seeds\", after the unenclosed condition of their seeds (called ovules in their unfertilised state). Their naked condition stands in contrast to the seeds and ovules of flowering plants (angiosperms), which are enclosed within an ovary. Gymnosperm seeds develop either on the surface of scales or leaves, often modified to form cones, or at the end of short stalks as in Ginkgo.\n\nAfter being fertilised, the ovary starts to swell and develop into the fruit. With multi-seeded fruits, multiple grains of pollen are necessary for syngamy with each ovule. The growth of the pollen tube is controlled by the vegetative (or tube) cytoplasm. Hydrolytic enzymes are secreted by the pollen tube that digest the female tissue as the tube grows down the stigma and style; the digested tissue is used as a nutrient source for the pollen tube as it grows. During pollen tube growth towards the ovary, the generative nucleus divides to produce two separate sperm nuclei (haploid number of chromosomes) – a growing pollen tube therefore contains three separate nuclei, two sperm and one tube. The sperms are interconnected and dimorphic, the large one, in a number of plants, is also linked to the tube nucleus and the interconnected sperm and the tube nucleus form the \"male germ unit\".\n\nDouble fertilisation is the process in angiosperms (flowering plants) in which two sperm from each pollen tube fertilise two cells in a female gametophyte (sometimes called an embryo sac) that is inside an ovule. After the pollen tube enters the gametophyte, the pollen tube nucleus disintegrates and the two sperm cells are released; one of the two sperm cells \"fertilises\" the egg cell (at the bottom of the gametophyte near the micropyle), forming a diploid (2n) zygote. This is the point when fertilisation actually occurs; pollination and fertilisation are two separate processes. The nucleus of the other sperm cell fuses with two haploid polar nuclei (contained in the central cell) in the centre of the gametophyte. The resulting cell is triploid (3n). This triploid cell divides through mitosis and forms the endosperm, a nutrient-rich tissue, inside the seed.\n\nThe two central-cell maternal nuclei (polar nuclei) that contribute to the endosperm arise by mitosis from the single meiotic product that also gave rise to the egg. Therefore, maternal contribution to the genetic constitution of the triploid endosperm is double that of the embryo.\n\nOne primitive species of flowering plant, \"Nuphar polysepala\", has endosperm that is diploid, resulting from the fusion of a sperm with one, rather than two, maternal nuclei. It is believed that early in the development of angiosperm linages, there was a duplication in this mode of reproduction, producing seven-celled/eight-nucleate female gametophytes, and triploid endosperms with a 2:1 maternal to paternal genome ratio.\n\nIn many plants, the development of the flesh of the fruit is proportional to the percentage of fertilised ovules. For example, with watermelon, about a thousand grains of pollen must be delivered and spread evenly on the three lobes of the stigma to make a normal sized and shaped fruit.\n\nCross-fertilisation and self-fertilisation represent different strategies with differing benefits and costs. An estimated 48.7% of plant species are either dioecious or self-incompatible obligate out-crossers. It is also estimated that about 42% of flowering plants exhibit a mixed mating system in nature.\n\nIn the most common kind of mixed mating system, individual plants produce a single type of flower and fruits may contain self-fertilised, out-crossed or a mixture of progeny types. The transition from cross-fertilisation to self-fertilisation is the most common evolutionary transition in plants, and has occurred repeatedly in many independent lineages. About 10-15% of flowering plants are predominantly self-fertilising.\n\nUnder circumstances where pollinators and/or mates are rare, self-fertilisation offers the advantage of reproductive assurance. Self-fertilisation can therefore result in improved colonisation ability. In some species, self-fertilisation has persisted over many generations. \"Capsella rubella\" is a self-fertilisating species that became self-compatible 50,000 to 100,000 years ago. \"Arabidopsis thaliana\" is a predominantly self-fertilising plant with an out-crossing rate in the wild of less than 0.3%; a study suggested that self-fertilisation evolved roughly a million years ago or more in \"A. thaliana\". In long-established self-fertilising plants, the masking of deleterious mutations and the production of genetic variability is infrequent and thus unlikely to provide a sufficient benefit over many generations to maintain the meiotic apparatus. Consequently, one might expect self-fertilisation to be replaced in nature by an ameiotic asexual form of reproduction that would be less costly. However the actual persistence of meiosis and self-fertilisation as a form of reproduction in long-established self-fertilising plants may be related to the immediate benefit of efficient recombinational repair of DNA damage during formation of germ cells provided by meiosis at each generation.\n\nThe mechanics behind fertilisation has been studied extensively in sea urchins and mice. This research addresses the question of how the sperm and the appropriate egg find each other and the question of how only one sperm gets into the egg and delivers its contents. There are three steps to fertilisation that ensure species-specificity:\n\n\nConsideration as to whether an animal (more specifically a vertebrate) uses internal or external fertilisation is often dependent on the method of birth. Oviparous animals laying eggs with thick calcium shells, such as chickens, or thick leathery shells generally reproduce via internal fertilisation so that the sperm fertilises the egg without having to pass through the thick, protective, tertiary layer of the egg. Ovoviviparous and viviparous animals also use internal fertilisation. It is important to note that although some organisms reproduce via amplexus, they may still use internal fertilisation, as with some salamanders. Advantages to internal fertilisation include: minimal waste of gametes; greater chance of individual egg fertilisation, relatively \"longer\" time period of egg protection, and selective fertilisation; many females have the ability to store sperm for extended periods of time and can fertilise their eggs at their own desire.\n\nOviparous animals producing eggs with thin tertiary membranes or no membranes at all, on the other hand, use external fertilisation methods. Advantages to external fertilisation include: minimal contact and transmission of bodily fluids; decreasing the risk of disease transmission, and greater genetic variation (especially during broadcast spawning external fertilisation methods).\n\nSperm find the eggs via chemotaxis, a type of ligand/receptor interaction. Resact is a 14 amino acid peptide purified from the jelly coat of \"A. punctulata\" that attracts the migration of sperm.\n\nAfter finding the egg, the sperm penetrates the jelly coat through a process called sperm activation. In another ligand/receptor interaction, an oligosaccharide component of the egg binds and activates a receptor on the sperm and causes the acrosomal reaction. The acrosomal vesicles of the sperm fuse with the plasma membrane and are released. In this process, molecules bound to the acrosomal vesicle membrane, such as bindin, are exposed on the surface of the sperm. These contents digest the jelly coat and eventually the vitelline membrane. In addition to the release of acrosomal vesicles, there is explosive polymerisation of actin to form a thin spike at the head of the sperm called the acrosomal process.\n\nThe sperm binds to the egg through another ligand reaction between receptors on the vitelline membrane. The sperm surface protein bindin, binds to a receptor on the vitelline membrane identified as EBR1.\n\nFusion of the plasma membranes of the sperm and egg are likely mediated by bindin. At the site of contact, fusion causes the formation of a fertilisation cone.\n\nMammals internally fertilise through copulation. After a male ejaculates, many sperm move to the upper vagina (via contractions from the vagina) through the cervix and across the length of the uterus to meet the ovum. In cases where fertilisation occurs, the female usually ovulates during a period that extends from hours before copulation to a few days after; therefore, in most mammals it is more common for ejaculation to precede ovulation than vice versa.\n\nThe capacitated spermatozoon and the oocyte meet and interact in the \"ampulla\" of the fallopian tube. Rheotaxis, thermotaixs and chemotaxis are known mechanisms in guiding sperm towards the egg during the final stage of sperm migration. Spermatozoa respond (see Sperm thermotaxis) to the temperature gradient of ~2 °C between the oviduct and the ampulla, and chemotactic gradients of progesterone have been confirmed as the signal emanating from the cumulus oophorus cells surrounding rabbit and human oocytes. Capacitated and hyperactivated sperm respond to these gradients by changing their behaviour and moving towards the cumulus-oocyte complex. Other chemotactic signals such as formyl Met-Leu-Phe (fMLF) may also guide spermatozoa.\n\nThe zona pellucida, a thick layer of extracellular matrix that surrounds the egg and is similar to the role of the vitelline membrane in sea urchins, binds with the sperm. Unlike sea urchins, the sperm binds to the egg before the acrosomal reaction. ZP3, a glycoprotein in the zona pellucida, is responsible for egg/sperm adhesion in mice. The receptor galactosyltransferase (GalT) binds to the N-acetylglucosamine residues on the ZP3 and is important for binding with the sperm and activating the acrosome reaction. ZP3 is sufficient though unnecessary for sperm/egg binding. Two additional sperm receptors exist: a 250kD protein that binds to an oviduct secreted protein, and SED1, which independently binds to the zona. After the acrosome reaction, the sperm is believed to remain bound to the zona pellucida through exposed ZP2 receptors. These receptors are unknown in mice but have been identified in guinea pigs.\n\nIn mammals, the binding of the spermatozoon to the GalT initiates the acrosome reaction. This process releases the hyaluronidase that digests the matrix of hyaluronic acid in the vestments around the oocyte. Fusion between the oocyte plasma membranes and sperm follows and allows the sperm nucleus, the typical centriole, and atypical centriole that is attached to the flagellum, but not the mitochondria, to enter the oocyte. The protein CD9 likely mediates this fusion in mice (the binding homolog). The egg \"activates\" itself upon fusing with a single sperm cell and thereby changes its cell membrane to prevent fusion with other sperm. Zinc atoms are released during this activation.\n\nThis process ultimately leads to the formation of a diploid cell called a zygote. The zygote divides to form a blastocyst and, upon entering the uterus, implants in the endometrium, beginning pregnancy. Embryonic implantation not in the uterine wall results in an ectopic pregnancy that can kill the mother.\nIn such animals as rabbits, coitus induces ovulation by stimulating the release of the pituitary hormone gonadotropin; this release greatly increases the likelihood of pregnancy.\n\nThe term \"conception\" commonly refers to fertilisation, which is the successful fusion of gametes to form a new organism. Its use 'conception' by some to refer to implantation makes it a subject of semantic arguments about the beginning of pregnancy, typically in the context of the abortion debate.\n\nUpon gastrulation, which occurs around 16 days after fertilisation, the implanted blastocyst develops three germ layers, the endoderm, the ectoderm and the mesoderm, and the genetic code of the father becomes fully involved in the development of the embryo; later twinning is impossible. Additionally, interspecies hybrids survive only until gastrulation and cannot further develop.\nHowever, some human developmental biology literature refers to the \"conceptus\" and such medical literature refers to the \"products of conception\" as the post-implantation embryo and its surrounding membranes. The term \"conception\" is not usually used in scientific literature because of its variable definition and connotation.\n\nInsects in different groups, including the Odonata (dragonflies and damselflies) and the Hymenoptera (ants, bees, and wasps) practise delayed fertilisation. Anong the Odonata, females may mate with multiple males, and store sperm until the eggs are laid. The male may hover above the female during egg-laying (oviposition) to prevent her from mating with other males and replacing his sperm; in some groups such as the darters, the male continues to grasp the female with his claspers during egg-laying, the pair flying around in tandem. Among social Hymenoptera, honeybee queens mate only on mating flights, in a short period lasting some days; a queen may mate with eight or more drones. She then stores the sperm for the rest of her life, perhaps for five years or more.\n\nIn many fungi (except chytrids), as in some protists, fertilisation is a two step process. First, the cytoplasms of the two gamete cells fuse (called plasmogamy), producing a dikaryotic or heterokaryotic cell with multiple nuclei. This cell may then divide to produce dikaryotic or heterokaryotic hyphae. The second step of fertilisation is karyogamy, the fusion of the nuclei to form a diploid zygote.\n\nIn chytrid fungi, fertilisation occurs in a single step with the fusion of gametes, as in animals and plants.\n\nThere are three types of fertilisation processes in protozoa:\n\nFertilisation in algae occurs by binary fission. The pseudopodia is first withdrawn and the nucleus starts dividing. When the cytoplasm is divided, the cytoplasm is also divided into two equal parts for each daughter cell. Two daughter cells are produced by one parent cell. It involves the process of mitosis.\n\nMeiosis results in a random segregation of the genes that each parent contributes. Each parent organism is usually identical save for a fraction of their genes; each gamete is therefore genetically unique. At fertilisation, parental chromosomes combine. In humans, (2²²)² = 17.6x10 chromosomally different zygotes are possible for the non-sex chromosomes, even assuming no chromosomal crossover. If crossover occurs once, then on average (4²²)² = 309x10 genetically different zygotes are possible for every couple, not considering that crossover events can take place at most points along each chromosome. The X and Y chromosomes undergo no crossover events and are therefore excluded from the calculation. The mitochondrial DNA is only inherited from the maternal parent.\n\nOrganisms that normally reproduce sexually can also reproduce via parthenogenesis, wherein an unfertilised female gamete produces viable offspring. These offspring may be clones of the mother, or in some cases genetically differ from her but inherit only part of her DNA. Parthenogenesis occurs in many plants and animals and may be induced in others through a chemical or electrical stimulus to the egg cell. In 2004, Japanese researchers led by Tomohiro Kono succeeded after 457 attempts to merge the ova of two mice by blocking certain proteins that would normally prevent the possibility; the resulting embryo normally developed into a mouse.\n\nAllogamy, which is also known as cross-fertilisation, refers to the fertilisation of an egg cell from one individual with the male gamete of another.\n\nAutogamy which is also known as self-fertilisation, occurs in such hermaphroditic organisms as plants and flatworms; therein, two gametes from one individual fuse.\n\nSome relatively unusual forms of reproduction are:\n\nGynogenesis: A sperm stimulates the egg to develop without fertilisation or syngamy. The sperm may enter the egg.\n\nHybridogenesis: One genome is eliminated to produce haploid eggs.\n\nCanina meiosis: (sometimes called \"permanent odd polyploidy\") one genome is transmitted in the Mendelian fashion, others are transmitted clonally.\n\nThe major benefit of cross-fertilisation is generally thought to be the avoidance of inbreeding depression. Charles Darwin, in his 1876 book \"The Effects of Cross and Self Fertilisation in the Vegetable Kingdom\" (pages 466-467) summed up his findings in the following way.\n“It has been shown in the present volume that the offspring from the union of two distinct individuals, especially if their progenitors have been subjected to very different conditions, have an immense advantage in height, weight, constitutional vigour and fertility over the self-fertilised offspring from one of the same parents. And this fact is amply sufficient to account for the development of the sexual elements, that is, for the genesis of the two sexes.”\n\nIn addition, it is thought by some, that a long-term advantage of out-crossing in nature is increased genetic variability that promotes adaptation and/or avoidance of extinction (see Genetic variability).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25292204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25292204", "title": "Fibre cement", "text": "Fibre cement\n\nFibre cement is a composite building and construction material, used mainly in roofing and facade products because of its strength and durability. One common use is in fiber cement siding on buildings.\n\nThe term \"cement\" originates from the Latin word \"Caementum\", which signifies chopped stone. Cement describes a substance which will react chemically with water and develop into a material hard as stone.\n\nIn fibre cement there is a fibre reinforcement, which contributes to making the fibre-cement material even stronger. Together with a carefully planned production process, fibre cement makes it possible to develop strong and long lasting construction materials. Today fibre cement is considered as a material physically suited for construction products such as cladding and roofing. It is primarily due to its function, performance and commercial value.\n\nFibre cement flat sheet classified, by accredited laboratories, as Category A according to BS EN 12467: 2004 Fibre-cement flat sheets – Product specification and test methods are sheets which are intended for applications where they may be subject to heat, high moisture and severe frost. While the best possible Reaction to Fire Classifications are A1 (construction applications) and A1Fl (flooring applications) respectively, both of which mean \"non-combustible\" according to EN 13501-1: 2007, as classified by a notified laboratory in Europe, some fibre cement boards only come with Fire Classification of A2 (limited combustibility) or even lower classifications, if they are tested at all.\n\nFibre-reinforced cement-products were invented in the late 19th century by the Austrian Ludwig Hatschek. He mixed 90% cement and 10% asbestos fibres with water and ran it through a cardboard machine, forming strong thin sheets. Originally, the reinforcing fibres were of asbestos and the material was commonly used as siding in house buildings due to its low cost, fire-resistance, water tightness, light weight, and other useful properties.\n\nIn the 1970s it became widely acknowledged that exposure to asbestos is harmful to health, being directly related to a number of life-threatening diseases including, asbestosis, pleural mesothelioma (lung) and peritoneal mesothelioma (abdomen). Consequently, asbestos use was progressively prohibited and safer fibre alternatives were developed, principally cellulose, to allow continued exploitation of the widely acknowledged advantages of fibre cement.\n\nFibre cement products were amongst the last materials available to have contained large quantities of asbestos. The asbestos fibres are intimately bound to the cement matrix and were considered to be immobilized in the cement and therefore less prone to be released in the environment, suspended in the air, and inhaled in the lung than in other materials or applications, such as thermal insulation or flocking, in which loose asbestos fibres were used. However, asbestos fibres are inevitably released during machining of the fibre-cement products, and by long-term erosion of the material after it has been exposed to atmospheric weathering and wind, which causes the cement to degrade. Occupational health concerns and the protection of workers in the fibre-cement factories have finally led to the progressive elimination of asbestos from these products.\n\nUsers of fibre cement boards who seek high performance and reliable green building materials should source products that have been tested by accredited laboratories and proven to be 100% free from asbestos or other harmful materials such as sepiolite, inorganic fibre or formaldehyde.\n\nFibre cement is a main component of long-lasting building materials. The main application areas are roofing and cladding. The list below gives some common applications.\n\nInternal cladding:\n\nExternal cladding:\n\nRoofing:\n\nFibre-cement products have found a wide usage in various sectors of construction: industrial, agricultural, domestic and residential buildings, mainly in roofing and cladding applications, for new constructions and refurbishment projects.\n"}
{"id": "14598881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14598881", "title": "Floor sanding", "text": "Floor sanding\n\nFloor sanding is the process of removing the top surfaces of a wooden floor by sanding with abrasive materials.\n\nA variety of floor materials can be sanded, including timber, cork, particleboard, and sometimes parquet. Some floors are laid and designed for sanding. Many old floors are sanded after the previous coverings are removed and suitable wood is found hidden beneath. Floor sanding usually involves three stages: Preparation, sanding, and coating with a protective sealant.\n\nAll modern sanding projects are completed with specialized sanding machines. The majority of material is removed by large 220 volt belt or drum sander. Belt sanders are preferred for the continuous sand paper belt design to prevent sanding machine marks in floors. The belt sander was invented by Eugen Laegler in 1969 out of Güglingen, Germany. 90% of the area can be reached with the belt/drum sander. The remaining 10% left such as edges, corners, under cabinets, and stairs, are sanded by an edge sanding machine. A finishing machine known as a multi disc sander or buffer is then used for the final sanding steps.\n\nPreparation is the first stage of the sanding process. All nails which protrude above the boards are punched down. Nails can severely damage the sanding machines which are being used. Staples or tacks used to fasten previous coverings (if any) are removed to reduce the possibility of damage. Some brands or types of adhesives which have been used to secure coverings may need to be removed. Some adhesives clog papers and running gear of the machines used, and some can even make sanding impossible.\n\nAfter the floor is prepared, the sanding begins. The \"first cut\" is done with coarse-grit papers to remove old coatings and to make the floor flat. The differences in height between the boards are removed. The large sanders are used across the grain of the timber. The most common paper used for the first cut is 40 grit. content, so wearing a suitable respirator mask is recommended.\n\nSanding removes all patina, and can change the character of old floors. The result does not always suit the character of the building.\n\nSanding old boards sometimes exposes worm eaten cores, effectively ruining the floor's appearance. This can reduce the sale price, or even cause the floor to require replacement.\n\nSanding removes material, and timber floors have a limit to how much they can be sanded.\n"}
{"id": "32379454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32379454", "title": "Fuel poverty in the United Kingdom", "text": "Fuel poverty in the United Kingdom\n\nIn the United Kingdom fuel poverty is said to occur when, in order to heat its home to an adequate standard of warmth, a household needs to spend more than 10% of its income on total fuel use. Adequate warmth is generally defined to be 21 °C in the main living room and 18 °C in other occupied rooms during daytime hours, with lower temperatures at night, following the recommendations of the World Health Organization. Fuel poverty is not just about access to heating as the definition of fuel is taken to include all expenditure on domestic energy, including that used for hot water, cooling, lights and appliances. This definition is essentially that first established by Dr Brenda Boardman in her book entitled \"Fuel Poverty\", first published in 1991, although fuel poverty has been the focus of political action since the early 1970s .\n\nThere are, however, a variety of different ways of considering household income when measuring fuel poverty. The UK definition does not, for example, take account of the amount that a household actually spends on fuel, nor the amount available for the household to spend on fuel after other costs have been met.\n\nThe UK Government’s preferred definition of household income includes income from housing-related benefits in the calculation of household income. Other estimates of the extent of fuel poverty exclude benefits from household income. The charity National Energy Action (NEA) regards both these definitions as unacceptable and believes that disposable income (after the deduction of housing costs) should be used in the definition of fuel poverty.\n\nOn 14 March 2011, the Secretary of State for Energy and Climate Change announced he had asked Professor John Hills of the London School of Economics to lead a review of the fuel poverty definition and target. The interim report of this independent review was published on 19 October 2011. On page 19 of the interim report, Hill suggests redefining a fuel poor household as one that has required fuel costs that are above the median level, and were they to spend that amount, would be left with a residual income below the official poverty line. No official action has yet been taken on this suggestion.\n\nIn early 2008 it was estimated by Energywatch that there were around 4.4 million households in fuel poverty in the UK, with just over 3 million in England alone. This was more than double the number in 2003.\n\n2008 saw significant price increases of approximately 45% by energy companies on gas and electric. In early 2009 the companies declared they were to drop their prices, but only a 10% reduction was seen across the board and this did not happen, with the exception of British Gas, until March 31, once the worst of the winter was over. Research from NEA showed that as of March 2009 over 5 million households across the UK were living in fuel poverty.\n\nIn April 2011 a YouGov survey indicated that the number of households in fuel poverty had risen to 6.3 million households, representing approximately 24% of all households in the UK.\n\nThe UK Government's 2015 Fuel Poverty Report showed that 4.5 million households, or 17% of UK households, were in fuel poverty.\n\nExcess winter deaths are defined by the Office for National Statistics as the difference between the number of deaths during the four winter months (December to March) and the average number of deaths during the preceding autumn (August to November) and the following summer (April to July).\n\nAlthough the phenomenon of excess winter deaths is not unique to the United Kingdom, the incidence is markedly higher than for countries with similar climates and living standards. England has an 18% rise in deaths during the winter, on average, whereas Finland has a 10% increase, Germany and the Netherlands have 11%.\n\nSince 2000, excess winter deaths in England and Wales remained generally at around 25,000. For the period of 2007-2008 the number of excess winter deaths was 27,480 of which the Hill reporte estimated that around 10% were caused directly by fuel poverty. The winter of 2008-2009 the coldest in 10 years, and the Office for National Statistics estimated there were a total of 36,700, an increase of 49% over the previous year, which represents a 23.8% rise in deaths during the winter.\n\nDeaths from hypothermia among UK pensioners almost doubled during the 5 years up to 2012, a time when several cold winters combined with largescale increases in energy prices. \n\nThe number of pensioners dying from hypothermia has nearly doubled in five years, a period when a succession of cold winters has been coupled with drastic rises in energy bills. Exposure to the cold does affect the number of winter deaths‚ but deaths from other cold related causes are very much more common than it is for the cold to kill people directly. In the main these deaths are from respiratory or cardio-vascular ailments. Overall deaths are from heart attacks‚ strokes‚ bronchial and other conditions‚ and may often occur several days after exposure to the cold. Spending too long in the cold will lower the body temperature which can often aggravate circulatory diseases‚ which can lead to strokes and heart attacks or respiratory illnesses such as bronchitis or pneumonia.\n\nUnder the Climate Change and Sustainable Energy Act 2006 the Government is obliged to report annual progress in cutting the number of households in which one or more persons are living in fuel poverty.\n\nThe UK's main programme targeting fuel poverty is the Energy Company Obligation.\n\nThe Home Heat Helpline - 0800 33 66 99 - can provide assistance to the following vulnerable groups:\n\nThe Home Heat Helpline also recognises that those most in need of help are often those least able to access it so the helpline now accepts third party applications.\n\nThe UK Parliamentary Select Committee on Energy and Climate Change recently launched an inquiry on home energy efficiency in September 2015.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29819133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29819133", "title": "Ghent Generating Station", "text": "Ghent Generating Station\n\nThe Ghent Generating Station is a coal-fired power plant owned and operated by Kentucky Utilities near Ghent, Kentucky. It is located between Louisville, Kentucky and Cincinnati, Ohio. The plant is connected to the grid by numerous 138 and 345kv transmission lines.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50178403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50178403", "title": "Green hunting", "text": "Green hunting\n\nGreen hunting or eco-hunting is the practice of hunting game animals with tranquiliser dart guns and the subsequent release of the live animals. Green hunting would typically be performed when tranquilisation of the animal is necessary for veterinary or monitoring purposes, or when animals are to be translocated. Green hunting has been advocated as a conservation-minded alternative to destructive hunting. However, criticism has sprung up over the possibility that in the interest of generating revenue, particular animals may undergo tranquilisation too frequently, with a case alleged where tranquilisation occurred once every two weeks, and the suggestion that this may be traumatising to the animals, with consequences poorly studied.\n"}
{"id": "4990153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4990153", "title": "Gujranwala Electric Power Company", "text": "Gujranwala Electric Power Company\n\nAadii companies... Gujranwala Electric Power Company (GEPCO) is an electric distribution company which supplies electricity to Gujranwala Region, Punjab, Pakistan. The jurisdiction of the company includes Sialkot, Narowal, Gujranwala, Gujrat and Mandi Bahauddin Districts. Choudhary Muhammad Akram is current Chief Executive Officer (CEO) GEPCO. The main man-force of the company includes Line Staff, Clerecal Staff, Reading Staff and Officers / Managers. The company has more than 15000 employees with 300+ officers.\n\n"}
{"id": "15010138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15010138", "title": "Ice II", "text": "Ice II\n\nIce II is a rhombohedral crystalline form of ice with a highly ordered structure. It is formed from ice I by compressing it at a temperature of 198 K at 300 MPa or by decompressing ice V. When heated it undergoes transformation to ice III. Ordinary water ice is known as ice I, (in the Bridgman nomenclature). Different types of ice, from ice II to ice XVI, have been created in the laboratory at different temperatures and pressures. It is thought that the cores of icy moons like Jupiter's Ganymede may be made of ice II.\n\nThe properties of ice II were first described and recorded by Gustav Heinrich Johann Apollon Tammann in 1900 during his experiments with ice under high pressure and low temperatures. Having produced ice III, Tammann then tried condensing the ice at a temperature between under of pressure. Tammann noted that in this state ice II was denser than he had observed ice III to be. He also found that both types of ice can be kept at normal atmospheric pressure in a stable condition so long as the temperature is kept at that of liquid air, which slows the change in conformation back to ice I.\n\nIn later experiments by Bridgman in 1912, it was shown that the difference in volume between ice II and ice III was in the range of . This difference hadn't been discovered by Tammann due to the small change and was why he had been unable to determine an equilibrium curve between the two. The curve showed that the structural change from ice III to ice II was more likely to happen if the medium had previously been in the structural conformation of ice II. However, if a sample of ice III that had never been in the ice II state was obtained, it could be supercooled even below −70 °C without it changing into ice II. Conversely, however, any superheating of ice II was not possible in regards to retaining the same form. Bridgman found that the equilibrium curve between ice II and ice IV was much the same as with ice III, having the same stability properties and small volume change. The curve between ice II and ice V was extremely different, however, with the curve's bubble being essentially a straight line and the volume difference being almost always .\n\n"}
{"id": "44182443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44182443", "title": "Institute of Physics and Power Engineering", "text": "Institute of Physics and Power Engineering\n\nInstitute of Physics and Power Engineering (full name: I.I. Leypunsky Institute of Physics and Power Engineering, ; IPPE) is a research and development institute in the field of nuclear technology located in Obninsk, Russia. It is a subsidiary of Rosatom.\n\nIPPE was established in May 1946 to develop nuclear power technology. The purpose of the Institute was the development of nuclear reactors and to solve scientific and engineering tasks in the field of nuclear power. The staff of the Institute had built the world's first nuclear power plant in Obninsk, AM-1 (\"Атом Мирный\", Russian for Atom Mirny, or \"peaceful atom\"), was commissioned at IPPE on 27 June 1954.\n\nDuring its existence the Institute has developed more than 120 different projects, including:\n\n• the fast reactors BR-1, BR-2, BR-5, BR-10;\n\n• the reactor BOR-60 in RIAR (Dimitrovgrad);\n\n• the reactor BN-350 reactor for a nuclear power plant in Aktau (Kazakhstan);\n\n• the reactor BN-600 reactor and BN-800 reactor for Beloyarsk NPP;\n\n• the reactor SVBR-100 reactor;\n\n• space Beech nuclear reactor and TOPAZ nuclear reactor;\n\n• naval lead-bismuth liquid metal reactors: VT-1 reactor, BM-40A reactor, OK-550 reactorl\n\n• mobile nuclear power plant - TES-3 ()\n\nThe Institute collaborates with the leading scientific and research organizations of Russia, CIS and foreign countries. Among the most international projects can be named:\n\n- involves on a large-scale project: FAIR | FAIR-Russia.\n\n- the cooperation with France concerning the creation of fast reactors;\n\n- joint research with the USA, France, Germany, and Japan concerning reusing ex-nuclear materials of the reactor BH-600;\n\n- joint project development of the fast reactor CEFR with China;\n\n- joint project development of the fast reactor KALIMER with South Korea;\n\n- interested in FBNR project;\n"}
{"id": "16327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16327", "title": "Joule", "text": "Joule\n\nThe joule (; symbol: J) is a derived unit of energy in the International System of Units. It is equal to the energy transferred to (or work done on) an object when a force of one newton acts on that object in the direction of its motion through a distance of one metre (1 newton metre or N⋅m). It is also the energy dissipated as heat when an electric current of one ampere passes through a resistance of one ohm for one second. It is named after the English physicist James Prescott Joule (1818–1889).\n\nIn terms firstly of base SI units and then in terms of other SI units:\n\nwhere kg is the kilogram, m is the metre, s is the second, N is the newton, Pa is the pascal, W is the watt, C is the coulomb, and V is the volt.\n\nOne joule can also be defined as:\n\nIn mechanics, the concept of force (in some direction) has a close analog in the concept of torque (about some angle):\n\nA result of this similarity is that the SI unit for torque is the newton metre, which works out algebraically to have the same dimensions as the joule. But they are not interchangeable. The CGPM has given the unit of energy the name \"joule\", but has not given the unit of torque any special name, hence it is simply the newton metre (N⋅m) – a compound name derived from its constituent parts. The use of newton metres for torque and joules for energy is helpful to avoid misunderstandings and miscommunications.\n\nThe distinction may be seen also in the fact that energy is a scalar – the dot product of a vector force and a vector displacement. By contrast, torque is a vector – the cross product of a distance vector and a force vector. Torque and energy are related to one another by the equation\n\nwhere \"E\" is energy, \"τ\" is (the vector magnitude of) torque, and \"θ\" is the angle swept (in radians). Since radians are dimensionless, it follows that torque and energy have the same dimensions.\n\nOne joule in everyday life represents approximately:\n\nSince the joule is also a watt-second and the common unit for electricity sales to homes is the kW⋅h (kilowatt-hour), a kW⋅h is thus 1000 W × 3600 s = 3.6 MJ (megajoules).\n\n\n1 joule is equal to (approximately unless otherwise stated):\n\nUnits defined exactly in terms of the joule include:\n\nA watt second (also watt-second, symbol W s or W·s) is a derived unit of energy equivalent to the joule. The watt-second is the energy equivalent to the power of one watt sustained for one second. While the watt-second is equivalent to the joule in both units and meaning, there are some contexts in which the term \"watt-second\" is used instead of \"joule\".\n\nIn photography, the unit for flashes is the watt-second. A flash can be rated in watt-seconds (e.g. 300 W⋅s) or in joules (different names for the same thing), but historically the term \"watt-second\" has been used and continues to be used. An on-camera flash, using a 1000 microfarad capacitor at 300 volts, would be 45 watt-seconds. Studio flashes, using larger capacitors and higher voltages, are in the 200–2000 watt-second range. \n\nThe energy rating a flash is given is not a reliable benchmark for its light output because there are numerous factors that affect the energy conversion efficiency. For example, the construction of the tube will affect the efficiency, and the use of reflectors and filters will change the usable light output towards the subject. Some companies specify their products in \"true\" watt-seconds, and some specify their products in \"nominal\" watt-seconds.\n\n"}
{"id": "1518981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1518981", "title": "Khareef", "text": "Khareef\n\nKhareef (, autumn) is a colloquial Arabic term used in southern Oman, southeastern Yemen, southwestern Saudi Arabia and Sudan for the southeastern monsoon. The monsoon affects Dhofar and Al Mahrah Governorates from about June to early September. Towns such as Salalah depend upon the khareef for water supply. An annual Khareef festival is held in Salalah to celebrate the monsoon and attracts tourists.\n\nThe Khareef leads to a unique ecological habitat along the coast known as the Arabian Peninsula coastal fog desert.\n\n"}
{"id": "20209430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20209430", "title": "Lean body mass", "text": "Lean body mass\n\nLean body mass (LBM) is a component of body composition, calculated by subtracting body fat weight from total body weight: total body weight is lean plus fat. In equations:\n\nThe percentage of total body mass that is lean is usually not quoted – it would typically be 60–90%. Instead, the body fat percentage, which is the complement, is computed, and is typically 10–40%. The lean body mass (LBM) has been described as an index superior to total body weight for prescribing proper levels of medications and for assessing metabolic disorders, as body fat is less relevant for metabolism. LBW is used by anesthesiologists to dose certain medications. For example, due to the concern of postoperative opioid-induced ventilatory depression in the obese patient, opioids are best based on lean body weight. The induction dose of propofol should also be based on LBW \n\nLBM is usually estimated using mathematical formulas. Several formulas exist, having different utility for different purposes. For example, the Boer formula is method of choice for LBM estimation to calculate the dose given in contrast CT in obese individuals with BMI between 35 and 40.\n\nA nomogram based on height, weight and arm circumference may be used.\n\nFor men: LBM = (0.407 × W) + (0.267 × H) − 19.2\n\nFor women: LBM = (0.252 × W) + (0.473 × H) − 48.3\n\nwhere W is body weight in kilograms and H is body height in centimeters.\n\nThe following formula may be used:\n\nFor men: LBM = (0.32810 × W) + (0.33929 × H) − 29.5336\n\nFor women: LBM = (0.29569 × W) + (0.41813 × H) − 43.2933\n\nwhere W is body weight in kilograms and H is body height in centimeters.\n\nInstead of mathematical estimation the actual value of LBM may be calculated using various technologies such as Dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DEXA).\n"}
{"id": "54084937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54084937", "title": "List of mountains and hills of the Taunus", "text": "List of mountains and hills of the Taunus\n\nThis list of mountains and hills of the Taunus contains a selection of the highest and most notable mountains and hills in the Taunus and its foothills in the German states of Hesse and Rhineland-Palatinate. The Taunus is part of the Rhenish Massif, part of the German Central Uplands, and has three nature parks: Taunus (formerly \"Hochtaunus\"), Nassau and Rhine-Taunus.\n\nThe mountains and hills in the table below are initially sorted by height in metres (m) above sea level (NHN) (source unless otherwise stated) \nThe table may be resorted by any of five columns by clicking on the symbol at the top. In the column headed \"Mountain or hill\" alternative names are given in brackets, small text and italics. In this column, when there is more than one entry of the same name, they are distinguished by a place name.\n\nThe abbreviations used in the table are explained below.\n\nDie in der Tabelle verwendeten Abkürzungen (alphabetisch sortiert) bedeuten:\n\nCounty abbreviations:\n\nIndependent city and town abbreviations:\n\nGerman state abbreviations (ISO 3166-2):\n\nSonstiges:\n"}
{"id": "2296792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2296792", "title": "List of natural gas vehicles", "text": "List of natural gas vehicles\n\nThis is a list of natural gas vehicles.\n\n\n\n\nSuzuki Mehran VX CNG BI FUEL\nChevy Express Van CNG (Note, limited range ~130 miles/tank)\n\n\n\nT-80\n\n\n"}
{"id": "60773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=60773", "title": "List of woods", "text": "List of woods\n\nThis is a list of woods, in particular those most commonly used in the timber and lumber trade.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "548247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=548247", "title": "Luthier", "text": "Luthier\n\nA luthier ( ) is someone who builds or repairs string instruments generally consisting of a neck and a sound box. The word \"luthier\" comes from the French word \"luth\", which means lute. A luthier was originally a maker of lutes, but the term now includes makers of stringed instruments such as the violin or guitar. A luthier does not make harps or pianos, as these require different skills and construction methods because their strings are secured to a frame.\nThe craft of making string instruments, or lutherie (sometimes spelled luthiery), is commonly divided into two main categories: makers of stringed instruments that are plucked or strummed, and those that are bowed. Since bowed instruments require a bow, the second category includes a subtype known as a bow maker or archetier.\nLuthiers may also teach string-instrument making, either through apprenticeship or formal classroom instruction.\n\nImportant luthiers who specialized in the instruments of the lute family (lutes, archlutes, theorbos, vihuelas, etc.):\n\n\nand in modern times:\n\nTwo important luthiers of the early 19th century connected with the development of the modern classical guitar are Louis Panormo and Georg Staufer. Antonio Torres Jurado is credited with developing the form of classical guitar still in use today. Christian Frederick Martin of Germany developed a form that evolved into the modern steel-string acoustic guitar.\n\nThe American luthier Orville Gibson specialized in mandolins, and is credited with creating the archtop guitar. The important 20th-century American luthiers John D'Angelico and Jimmy D'Aquisto made archtop guitars. Lloyd Loar worked briefly for the Gibson Guitar Corporation making mandolins and guitars. His designs for a family of arch top instruments (mandolin, mandola, guitar, et cetera) are held in high esteem by today's luthiers, who seek to reproduce their sound. Paul Bigsby's innovation of the tremolo arm for archtop and electric guitars is still in use today and may have influenced Leo Fender's design for the Stratocaster solid-body electric guitar, as well as the Jaguar and Jazzmaster. Concurrent with Fender's work, guitarist Les Paul independently developed a solid-body electric guitar. These were the first fretted, solid-body electric guitars—though they were preceded by the cast aluminum \"frying pan\", a solid-body electric lap steel guitar developed and eventually patented by George Beauchamp, and built by Adolph Rickenbacher.\nA company founded by luthier Friedrich Gretsch and continued by his son and grandson, Fred and Fred, Jr., originally made banjos, but is more famous today for its electric guitars. Vintage guitars are often sought by collectors.\n\nBowed instruments include: cello, crwth, double bass, erhu, fiddle, hudok, morin khuur, nyckelharpa, hurdy-gurdy, rabab, rebec, sarangi, viol (viola da gamba), viola, viola da braccio, viola d'amore, and violin.\n\nThe purported \"inventor\" of the violin is Andrea Amati. Amati was originally a lute maker, but turned to the new instrument form of violin in the mid-16th century. He was the progenitor of the famous Amati family of luthiers active in Cremona, Italy until the 18th century. Andrea Amati had two sons. His eldest was Antonio Amati (\"circa\" 1537–1607), and the younger, Girolamo Amati (\"circa\" 1561–1630). Girolamo is better known as Hieronymus, and together with his brother, produced many violins with labels inside the instrument reading \"A&H\". Antonio died having no known offspring, but Hieronymus became a father. His son Nicolò (1596–1684) was himself an important master luthier who had several apprentices of note, including Antonio Stradivari (probably), Andrea Guarneri, Bartolomeo Pasta, Jacob Railich, Giovanni Battista Rogeri, Matthias Klotz, and possibly Jacob Stainer and Francesco Rugeri. It is even possible Bartolomeo Cristofori, later inventor of the piano, apprenticed under him (although census data does not support this, which paints this as a possible myth).\n\nGasparo da Salò of Brescia (Italy) was another important early luthier of the violin family. About 80 of his instruments survive, and around 100 documents that relate to his work. He was also a double bass player and son and nephew of two violin players: Francesco and Agosti, respectively.\n\nGasparo Duiffopruggar of Füssen, Germany, was once incorrectly credited as the inventor of the violin. He was likely an important maker, but no documentation survives, and no instruments survive that experts unequivocally know are his.\n\nDa Salò made many instruments and exported to France and Spain, and probably to England. He had at least five apprentices: his son Francesco, a helper named Battista, Alexander of Marsiglia, Giacomo Lafranchini and—the most important—Giovanni Paolo Maggini. Maggini inherited da Salò's business in Brescia. Valentino Siani worked with Maggini. In 1620, Maggini moved to Florence.\n\nLuthiers born in the mid-17th century include Giovanni Grancino, Vincenzo Rugeri, Carlo Giuseppe Testore, and his sons Carlo Antonio Testore and Paolo Antonio Testore, all from Milan. From Venice the luthiers Matteo Goffriller, Domenico Montagnana, Sanctus Seraphin, and Carlo Annibale Tononi were principals in the Venetian school of violin making (although the latter began his career in Bologna). Carlo Bergonzi (luthier) purchased Antonio Stradivari's shop a few years after the master's death. David Tecchler, who was born in Austria, later worked in both Venice and Rome.\n\nImportant luthiers from the early 18th century include Nicolò Gagliano of Naples, Italy, Carlo Ferdinando Landolfi of Milan, and Giovanni Battista Guadagnini, who roamed throughout Italy during his lifetime. From Austria originally, Leopold Widhalm later established himself in Nürnberg, Germany.\n\nThe early 19th-century luthiers of the Mirecourt school of violin making in France were the Vuillaume family, Charles Jean Baptiste Collin-Mezin, and Collin-Mezin's son, Charles Collin-Mezin, Jr., Honore Derazey, Nicolas Lupot, Charles Macoutel, Charles Mennégand, and Pierre Silvestre.\nNicola Utili (also known as Nicola da Castel Bolognese) (Ravenna, Italy, March 1888 – May 1962), beside traditional lute works, experimented the making of \"pear-shaped\" violins.\n\nThe Jérôme-Thibouville-Lamy firm started making wind instruments around 1730 at La Couture-Boussey, then moved to Mirecourt around 1760 and started making violins, guitars, mandolins, and musical accessories.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33040176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33040176", "title": "Malitbog Geothermal Power Station", "text": "Malitbog Geothermal Power Station\n\nThe Malitbog Geothermal Power Station is a 232.5 MW geothermal power plant or an earth steam turbined electric generator--the world's largest geothermal power plant under one roof located in Malitbog, Kananga, Leyte, Philippines. The power plant is one of four operating in the Leyte Geothermal Production Field. The power plants serve 10 million households in the Visayas with an average of 160 kiloWatthour per Household of 3 per month. The other 7 million is served by the Panlipin-on Geothermal Power of 100 Megawatts.\n\nFormerly owned and operated by the California Energy under a build-operate-transfer scheme known as CE Luzon, it was transferred to PNOC-EDC in 2007, and since 2009 has been owned and operated privately by the Energy Development Corporation.\n\nIn November 2013, the plant was damaged by Super Typhoon Yolanda and restored operations in January 2014.\n\nThe Smokey Mountains in the eastern parts of Kananga and Ormoc is Leyte's pride home of five major geothermal power plants (former Leyte Geothermal Power Plant of NPC; Upper Mahiao, Malitbog and Mahanagdong A and B) and four optimization geothermal power plants (Tongonan, Malitbog, Mahanagdong A and B) all privately owned and operated by the Energy Development Corporation.\n\n"}
{"id": "33796928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33796928", "title": "Metallic microlattice", "text": "Metallic microlattice\n\nA metallic microlattice is a synthetic porous metallic material consisting of an ultra-light metal foam. With a density as low as 0.9 mg/cm (0.00561 lb/ft), it is one of the lightest structural materials known to science. It was developed by a team of scientists from California-based HRL Laboratories, in collaboration with researchers at University of California, Irvine and Caltech, and was first announced in November 2011. The prototype samples were made from a nickel-phosphorus alloy. In 2012, the microlattice prototype was declared one of 10 World-Changing Innovations by \"Popular Mechanics\". Metallic microlattice technology has numerous potential applications in automotive and aeronautical engineering. A detailed comparative review study among other types of metallic lattice structures showed them to be beneficial for light-weighting purposes but expensive to manufacture.\n\nTo produce their metallic microslattice, the HRL/UCI/Caltech team first prepared a polymer template using a technique based on self-propagating waveguide formation, though it was noted that other methods can be used to fabricate the template. The process passed UV light through a perforated mask into a reservoir of UV-curable resin. Fiber-optic-like \"self-trapping\" of the light occurred as the resin cured under each hole in the mask, forming a thin polymer fiber along the path of the light. By using multiple light beams, multiple fibers could then interconnect to form a lattice.\n\nThe process was similar to photolithography in that it used a two-dimensional mask to define the starting template structure, but differed in the rate of formation: where stereolithography might take hours to make a full structure, the self-forming waveguide process allowed templates to be formed in 10–100 seconds. In this way, the process enables large free-standing 3D lattice materials to be formed quickly and scalably. The template was then coated with a thin layer of metal by electroless nickel plating, and the template is etched away, leaving a free-standing, periodic porous metallic structure. Nickel was used as the microlattice metal in the original report. Owing to the electrodeposition process, 7% of the material consisted of dissolved phosphorus atoms, and it contained no precipitates.\n\nA metallic microslattice is composed of a network of interconnecting hollow struts. In the least-dense microlattice sample reported, each strut is about 100 micrometres in diameter, with a wall 100 nanometres thick. The completed structure is about 99.99% air by volume, and by convention, the mass of air is excluded when the microlattice density is calculated. Allowing for the mass of the interstitial air, the true density of the structure is approximately 2.1 mg/cm (2.1 kg/m), which is only about 1.76 times the density of air itself at 25 °C. The material is described as being 100 times lighter than Styrofoam.\n\nMetallic microlattices are characterized by very low densities, with the 2011 record of 0.9 mg/cm being among the lowest values of any known solid. The previous record of 1.0 mg/cm was held by silica aerogels, and aerographite is claimed to have a density of 0.2 mg/cm. Mechanically, these microlattices are behaviorally similar to elastomers and almost completely recover their shape after significant compression. This gives them a significant advantage over earlier aerogels, which are brittle, glass-like substances. This elastomeric property in metallic microlattices furthermore results in efficient shock absorption. Their Young's modulus E exhibits different scaling, with the density ρ, E ~ ρ, compared to E ~ ρ in aerogels and carbon nanotube foams.\n\nMetallic microlattice may find potential applications as thermal and vibration insulators such as shock absorbers, and may also prove useful as battery electrodes and catalyst supports. Additionally, the microlattices' ability to return to their original state after being compressed may make them suitable for use in spring-like energy storage devices. Automotive and aeronautical manufacturers are using microlattice technology to develop extremely lightweight and efficient structures that combine multiple functions, such as structural reinforcement and heat transfer, into single components for high-performance vehicles.\n\nA similar but denser material, consisting of an electrodeposited nanocrystalline nickel layer over a polymeric rapid-prototyped truss, was created by researchers at the University of Toronto in 2008. In 2012, German researchers created a carbon foam known as aerographite, with an even lower density than a metallic microlattice. In 2013, Chinese scientists developed a carbon-based aerogel which was claimed to be lighter still.\n\nTube-based nanostructures are similar structures on a smaller scale.\n\n"}
{"id": "27565458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27565458", "title": "Michael Boxwell", "text": "Michael Boxwell\n\nMichael Boxwell (born 1 February 1970) is an eco-technology author who has written the books \"Owning an Electric Car\", \"Solar Electricity Handbook\" and \"Proof of Delivery Buyer's Guide\", all published by Greenstream Publishing.\n\nHe frequently appears on television and on radio talking about electric cars and co-hosted both the Transport Evolved show and TEN with Nikki Gordon-Bloomfield. Both shows are produced by Little Collie Ltd.\n\nMichael Boxwell lives in Warwickshire, England. He is married with two children.\n"}
{"id": "50445178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50445178", "title": "Nitronickelate", "text": "Nitronickelate\n\nThe nitronickelates are a class of chemical compounds containing a nickel atom complexed by nitro groups, -NO.\nNickel can be in a +2 or +3 oxidation state. There can be five (pentanitronickelates), or six, (hexanitronickelates) nitro groups per nickel atom. The can be considered the double nitrites of nickel nitrite.\n"}
{"id": "357414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=357414", "title": "North American Bus Industries", "text": "North American Bus Industries\n\nNABI Bus, LLC (NABI) was a manufacturer of heavy-duty transit buses with its headquarters, bus manufacturing and assembly operations, located in Anniston, Alabama. Its products ranged from 31-feet to 60-feet in length, and were sold to operators throughout the United States and Puerto Rico. NABI's U.S. operations also include an aftermarket parts division in Delaware, Ohio (at the former Flxible factory), and an after-sales service center at Mira Loma, California.\n\nThe company was acquired by New Flyer Industries in 2013, which in 2015 discontinued production of NABI's product lines at the Anniston plant.\n\nThe company that is now known as NABI was incorporated in the USA, in the state of Alabama, in November 1992, under the name American Ikarus, Inc. (American Ikarus). It was incorporated by the First Hungary Fund Limited, (FHF) a Jersey equity investment fund. Its incorporation was accompanied by FHF's concurrent formation of a Hungarian holding company, North American Bus Industries, Kft. (NABI Hungary) owning the shares of American Ikarus. This arrangement—with American Ikarus as a subsidiary of NABI Hungary--(collectively The Group) resulted in FHF's investment being Hungarian-based—in alignment with FHF's objective of investing in business opportunities resulting from the political and economic changes then taking place in Hungary. American Ikarus simultaneously acquired the assets of Ikarus USA, Inc. (Ikarus USA) a bus manufacturing subsidiary of the Union City Body Company, Inc. (UCBC) of Union City, Indiana. Such assets included facilities in Alabama, miscellaneous equipment and inventory.\n\nUCBC and Ikarus USA had been parties to a strategic alliance with Ikarus Body and Coach Building Works of Budapest, Hungary. (Ikarus Hungary) At the time, Ikarus Hungary was a very large bus manufacturer having multiple plants in Hungary, with a production output during the 1980s of over 13,000 buses per year. Simultaneously with the formation of American Ikarus, the previously established strategic alliance between Ikarus USA and Ikarus Hungary was assigned to the newly incorporated American Ikarus.\n\nAt the time of incorporation, it was planned that American Ikarus would purchase unfinished buses from Ikarus Hungary under its strategic alliance, ship them to the U.S. and perform final assembly at its Alabama plant. This arrangement provided certain engineering and manufacturing benefits and allowed compliance with \"Buy America\" requirements of the Surface Transportation Assistance Act of 1982 which established American content requirements for federally assisted rolling stock procurements, including transit buses. Such vehicles had already been designed by Ikarus Hungary specifically for the U.S. market, with unfinished buses having been produced previously by Ikarus Hungary under the same strategic alliance with Ikarus USA. These vehicles were the Model 416 forty-foot standard-floor transit bus and its larger sibling, the Model 436 sixty-foot articulated transit bus.\n\nThe plant in Anniston, AL opened in 1993 under this business arrangement, performing final assembly operations, delivery and after-sales service using unfinished knock-down buses produced in Hungary. Delivery of unfinished buses was accomplished by rail shipment from Budapest to Bremerhaven, then shipment by roll-on/roll-off ocean vessels to Charleston, SC, and then by delivery on flatbed trailers to Anniston, AL.\n\nAt the time of incorporation, Ikarus' business was in decline due to unusual political and economic changes following the fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989. Such decline continued after The Group's formation, resulting in the shutdown of one of Ikarus' plants in Budapest. This plant was purchased from Ikarus Hungary by NABI, Kft. which simultaneously entered a license agreement with Ikarus Hungary allowing NABI, Kft. to produce its own unfinished buses in Budapest and deliver them to its subsidiary in Alabama for final assembly and delivery to U.S. customers. In 1994 The Group began use of this manufacturing arrangement with no further involvement of Ikarus Hungary other than its role as licensor of the Model 416 and Model 436 standard-floor transit bus designs.\n\nIn 1996, the company began aggressive expansion of its aftermarket parts department which had previously supplied service parts only for its own products. This expansion was accomplished by hiring individuals previously employed within the aftermarket parts organization of the defunct Flxible Corporation, which had recently discontinued transit bus manufacturing and aftermarket parts operations in Ohio. Once hired, this group leased facilities in Ohio, and began to expand the sale of aftermarket parts to operators of competing makes of buses.\n\nAlso in 1996, American Ikarus, Inc. was renamed \"North American Bus Industries, Inc.\" due to the dissolution of its affiliation with Ikarus Hungary some years earlier, and because the company was easily and incorrectly confused with the no longer related Ikarus Hungary, which had fallen into further distress due to continued decline of its European markets.\n\nIn 1997, NABI Kft. was re-registered in Hungary from a limited liability company to NABI, Rt., a joint stock company, allowing it to raise capital via public offering. Thereafter, in August of that year, the company raised $US 27.1 million in a public offering, with its shares listed on the Budapest Stock Exchange. FHF retained approximately 56% of NABI, Rt. shares, with the remainder of the shares publicly traded.\n\nAlso in 1997, NABI Hungary was certified as conforming to the ISO 9001 quality and organizational standard, with NABI, Inc. becoming ISO 9001 certified the following year. In 1998, The Group also implemented the use of BaaN, an integrated enterprise resource planning system. Additionally, 1998 marked the introduction of NABI's new, 40-foot low-floor Model 40-LFW transit bus. (35-foot and 31-foot variants of this product were later derived).\n\nIn 2000, The Group announced its move into the European bus market with NABI, Inc.'s debt-financed acquisition of all of the shares of the Optare Group, (Optare) of Leeds, U.K. for $US 28.5 million, making Optare a NABI, Inc. subsidiary. Anticipated benefits included immediate participation in the European market as well as eventual European market participation with a new, composite-structured bus then under development. Plans also included the derivation of certain left-hand-drive Optare products for U.S. and Hungarian markets.\n\nAlthough there had been previous moderate expansion of NABI's Anniston, AL facility, 2001 marked additional and substantial factory expansion, taking the Anniston, AL plant to over 250,000 square feet (under roof). 2001 also marked derivation of the 30-foot NABI Model 30-LFN which was a left-hand-drive derivative of the recently developed Optare \"Solo\" being sold in the UK. Sale of these small low-floor buses commenced to private and public operators within the U.S. An additional outgrowth of the Optare acquisition was the sale of a small number of full-size (11 meter) NABI Model 700SE's the following year in Hungary. These were derived from the Optare Excel, and were produced on Scania chassis.\n\nIn 2002, NABI Hungary completed construction of a new plant in Kaposvár, Hungary. This new plant was purpose-built for the manufacture of the CompoBus, a new, composite-structured low-floor bus. Production of CompoBuses began inn earnest in 2003, with a significantly greater portion of this particular NABI product produced in Hungary than with other NABI products.\n\nThis new CompoBus manufacturing arrangement—unique for NABI—resulted in these buses being short of the FTA's normal Buy America requirements. However, NABI had sought Buy America waivers associated with the development of this new bus model, and had been granted two such waivers by the FTA. The first waiver allowed NABI to assemble its CompoBus outside the United States, and the second allowed it to count the composite chassis/frame as domestic for purposes of calculating the domestic component content of the vehicle. Both waivers applied to FTA funded procurements for which solicitations were issued within two years of the date of the waiver letter. That same year NABI introduced the 60-LFW, a new 60-foot low-floor articulated derivative of its 40-LFW model developed some years earlier.\n\nIn late 2004, NABI unveiled a new 60-foot low-floor articulated bus with rail-like styling, which had been in development since early 2003. This new product was designated the Model 60-BRT. Delivery of production versions began the following year, and a shorter, 42-foot derivative was eventually produced.\n\nAfter continuing disappointing financial results through 2004, NABI, Inc. sold its Optare subsidiary in 2005, and it also idled its composite bus production facility in Kaposvar, laying off 23% of its workforce in Hungary. The shutdown was due to uncertain future demand for the CompoBus and the weakened U.S. dollar. Also, in December 2005, the FTA refused to extend the previously granted waivers exempting the CompoBus from Buy America requirements.\n\nIn early 2006, NABI entered a preliminary agreement with affiliates of Cerberus Capital Management, L.P. (Cerberus) for the acquisition of all of the shares of NABI, Inc. and the business assets of NABI Rt. This transaction was completed in February 2006. (Concurrently, the Hungarian company that was not being acquired changed its name to ExBus, relegating itself to asset management unrelated to NABI.)\n\nIn August 2006, NABI announced its acquisition of Optima Bus Corporation in Wichita, KS (Optima) for an undisclosed amount. A short time later, it was announced that Cerberus had also acquired Blue Bird Corporation of Ft. Valley, GA (Blue Bird) thus rendering it a \"sister\" to NABI, Inc.\n\nIn June 2007, Optima's operations in Wichita, KS were shut down, and work-in-process, inventory and tooling for Optima's products were moved to NABI's Anniston, AL plant. At generally the same time, the work-in-process, tooling and inventory for Blue Bird's commercial buses were acquired by NABI and was also transferred to NABI, Inc.'s plant. NABI, Inc. elected to retain the names these products, and began producing these smaller buses at its Anniston, AL plant, thus adding Optima and Blue Bird brands to its product portfolio.\n\nGenerally at this same time, NABI also shifted the manufacture of its standard-floor model 416 unfinished buses from Hungary to newly leased facilities adjoining its existing Anniston, AL plant. Under this arrangement, standard-floor body structures and other vehicle elements are fabricated at the adjoining facility and are then towed a short distance into NABI's final assembly operation.\n\nIn late 2007, NABI began re-commissioning its CompoBus production plant in Kaposvar, simultaneously shifting certain assembly operations to Anniston and thus rendering the CompoBus compliant with Buy America requirements. CompoBus deliveries resumed in 2008 without the need for further waivers from the FTA.\n\n2008 also saw additional expansion at NABI's Anniston, AL plant with the installation of a new, robotic paint system. This expansion took the Anniston plant to approximately 1/3 million square feet under roof, not including adjacent leased facilities used for manufacture of standard-floor unfinished buses.\n\nAttempts to integrate the production of the smaller Optima and Blue Bird buses into NABI's operations eventually proved disruptive, and in 2010, NABI discontinued the production of its Optima and Blue Bird brand commercial bus products.\n\nThe following year, NABI commissioned a new fabrication shop at its plant, equipped with robotic laser cutting equipment as well as tube bending and other new fabrication equipment. At approximately the same time, new body assembly tooling for low-floor buses was installed at its adjoining body fabrication facility. With these changes in place, NABI shifted the manufacturing of its metal-structured low-floor unfinished buses from Hungary to the same facility that had already begun manufacturing NABI's standard-floor products in Alabama a few years earlier.\n\nAlso in 2010, NABI unveiled its new 12-meter Sirius bus at its plant in Kaposvar, Hungary. This new product, produced on an MAN chassis, was developed for Hungarian public transportation operators.\n\nIn 2011, NABI unveiled new styling for its metal-structured low-floor product and its CompoBus. Restyling of both products was accomplished primarily by using a redesigned front mask, leaving the body structure unchanged from earlier versions of the same models. Also, a 40-foot CompoBus prototype incorporating the new styling was also produced.\n\nOn April 30, 2013, after completing a large order of CompoBuses for the Los Angeles MTA, NABI produced its final CompoBus in Hungary. At the same time, NABI elected to discontinue promotion of its Hungarian Sirius bus, thus ending all production in Hungary and relegating all manufacturing and final assembly activities to its facilities in the USA.\n\nOn June 21, 2013, New Flyer Industries announced the acquisition of North American Bus Industries, Inc from Cerberus Capital Management, L.P. (Cerberus) for $79 million. The deal was completed later that day. However, New Flyer continued the NABI name for its existing bus products, which continued in production for the time being. This made NABI a subsidiary of New Flyer, using the legal name of NABI Bus, LLC. The Blue Bird school bus production assets were not included in the sale to New Flyer; they remain owned by Cerberus. As of late 2013, all of New Flyer's metal-structured bus production (with the exception of the MiDi, a product of the New Flyer–Alexander Dennis joint venture) is now under the NABI brand.\n\nIn June 2014, New Flyer announced that the NABI product line would be discontinued after existing orders are filled. The last bus, which was built for the Dallas Area Rapid Transit system, was completed in late October 2015. Since then, New Flyer has exclusively produced its \"Xcelsior\" product line at the former NABI Anniston plant, under the new name of New Flyer of America, Inc.\n\nAlthough NABI has utilized various manufacturing arrangements throughout its history, it has produced its metal-structured products entirely in Anniston. These metal-structured buses consisted of the standard-floor model 416 (40-foot length), the low-floor Model LFW (produced in 31-foot, 35-foot and 40-foot lengths) and the low-floor BRT (produced in 42-foot and 60-foot lengths).\n\nAll NABI products comply with current U.S. DOT Buy America requirements for federally funded transit bus procurements, including domestic component value requirements as well as final assembly requirements.\n\n"}
{"id": "13605234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13605234", "title": "Oil-storage trade", "text": "Oil-storage trade\n\nThe oil-storage trade, also referred to as contango, a market strategy in which large, often vertically-integrated oil companies purchase oil for immediate delivery and storage—when the price of oil is low— and hold it in storage until the price of oil increases. Investors bet on the future of oil prices through a financial instrument, oil futures in which they agree on a contract basis, to buy or sell oil at a set date in the future. Crude oil is stored in salt mines, tanks and oil tankers.\n\nInvestors can choose to take profits or losses prior to when the oil delivery date arrives or they can leave the contract in place and physical oil is \"delivered on the set date\" to an \"officially designated delivery point\". In the United States, that is usually to Cushing, Oklahoma. When delivery dates approach, they close out existing contracts and sell new ones for future delivery of the same oil. The oil never moves out of storage. If the forward market is in \"contango\"—the forward price is higher than the current spot price—the strategy is very successful. While new tanks have been added in Cushing for a storage capacity of 6.6 million barrels, by March 2015 all the tanks were fully leased through 2015.\n\nIn 2015, global capacity for oil storage was out-paced by global oil production and an oil glut occurred. Crude oil storage space became a tradable commodity with CME Group— which owns NYMEX— offering oil-storage futures contracts in March 2015. Traders and producers can buy and sell the right to store certain types of oil.\n\nThe concept started to be used by the oil traders in the market in early 1990. But it was in 2007 through 2009 the oil storage trade expanded. Many participants—including Wall Street giants, such as Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs, and Citicorp—turning sizeable profits simply by sitting on tanks of oil. By May, 2007 Cushing's inventory fell by nearly 35% as the oil-storage trade heated up.\n\nBy the end of October 2009 one in twelve of the largest oil tankers were being used more for temporary storage of oil, rather than transportation.\n\nFrom June 2014 to January 2015, as the price of oil dropped 60 percent and the supply of oil remained high, the world's largest traders in crude oil purchased at least 25 million barrels to store in supertankers to make a profit in the future when prices rise. Trafigura, Vitol, Gunvor, Koch, Shell and other major energy companies began to book oil storage supertankers for up to 12 months. By 13 January 2015 At least 11 Very Large Crude Carriers (VLCC) and Ultra Large Crude Carriers (ULCC)\" have been reported as booked with storage options, rising from around five vessels at the end of last week. Each VLCC can hold 2 million barrels.\"\n\nBy 5 March 2015, as oil production outpaces oil demand by 1.5 million barrels a day, storage capacity globally is dwindling. Crude oil is stored in old salt mines, in tanks and on tankers. In the United States alone, according to data from the Energy Information Administration, U.S. crude-oil supplies are at almost 70% of the U.S. storage capacity, the highest supply to capacity ratio since 1935.\n\nAccording to Bloomberg Business, the efficiency of newer shale oil wells that use hydraulic fracturing in the United States, combined with the US$12 million upfront well drilling and construction costs, provide incentives to oil producers to continue to flood the already glutted market with under-priced oil in spite of crude oil storage limitations. Many less efficient and less productive older wells were shut down but these shale oil wells continue to increase production while making a profit in a market where crude oil is priced as low as US$50 a barrel.\n\nThe United States Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR) is the world's largest supply of emergency crude oil—727 million barrels— stored in huge underground salt caverns along the coastline of the Gulf of Mexico. An emergency oil stockpile was recommended by several Presidents throughout the twentieth century, in 1944, in 1952, 1956 and in 1970. The SPR is a \"deterrent to oil import cutoffs and a key tool of foreign policy\" but it has rarely been used.\n\nOn October 20, 2014, a report by the U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) recommended reducing the size of the Reserve. According to the report, the amount of oil held in reserve exceeds the amount required to be kept on hand since the need for foreign imports of crude oil have decreased in recent years. The report said the U.S. Department of Energy agreed with the GAO’s recommendation.\n"}
{"id": "37921707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37921707", "title": "Potassium niobate", "text": "Potassium niobate\n\nPotassium niobate (KNbO) is a perovskite ferroelectric crystal. It has nonlinear optical coefficient properties, making it common in the manufacture of lasers. Nanowires of potassium niobate have been used to produce tunable coherent light. The for potassium niobate is 3000 mg/kg (oral, rat).\n\nOn cooling from high temperature, KNbO undergoes a series of structural phase transitions. At 435 °C, the crystal symmetry changes from cubic centrosymmetric (Pm3 ̅m) to tetragonal non-centrosymmetric (P4mm). On further cooling, at 225 °C the crystal symmetry changes from tetragonal (P4mm) to orthorhombic (Amm2) and at −50 °C from orthorhombic (Amm2) to rhombohedral (R3m).\n\nPotassium niobate has been found useful in many different areas of materials science research, including properties of lasers, quantum teleportation,\nand it has been used to study the optical properties of particulate composite materials.\n\nIn addition to research in electronic memory storage, potassium niobate is used in resonant doubling, a technique developed at the IBM Almaden Research Center. This technique allows small infrared lasers to convert output into blue light, a critical technology for the production of blue lasers and technology dependent upon them.\n"}
{"id": "45573249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45573249", "title": "Power integrity", "text": "Power integrity\n\nPower integrity or PI is an analysis to check whether the desired voltage and current are met from source to destination. Today, power integrity plays a major role in the success and failure of new electronic products. There are several coupled aspects of PI: on the chip, in the chip package, on the circuit board, and in the system. Four main issues must be resolved to ensure power integrity at the printed circuit board level:\n\nThe current path from the power supply through the PCB and IC package to the die (consumer) is called the power distribution network. Its role is to transfer the power to the consumers with little DC voltage drop, and to allow little ripple induced by dynamic current at the consumer(switching current). The DC drop occurs if there is too much resistance in the plane or power traces leading from the VRM to the consumer. This can be countered by raising the voltage on the VRM, or extending the \"sense\" point of the VRM to the consumer.\n\nDynamic current occur when the consumer switches its transistors, typically triggered by a clock. This dynamic current can be considerably larger than the static current (internal leakage) of the consumer. This fast current consumption can pull the voltage of the rail down, creating a voltage ripple. This change in current happens much faster than the VRM can react. The switching current must therefore be handled by decoupling capacitors. \n\nThe noise or voltage ripple must be handled differently depending on the frequency of operation. The highest frequencies must be handled on-die. This noise is decoupled by parasitic coupling in on the die, and capacitive coupling between metal layers. Frequencies above 50-100 MHz must be handled on the package, this is done by on package capacitors. Frequencies below 100 MHz are handled on the PCB by plane capacitance and using decoupling capacitors. Capacitors work on different frequencies depending on their type, capacitance and physical size. It is therefore necessary to utilize multiple capacitors of different sizes to ensure a low PDN impedance across the frequency range. \nThe physical size of the capacitors affect its parasitic inductance. The parasitic inductance creates impedance spikes at certain frequencies. (Physically) Smaller capacitors are therefore better. The placement of the capacitors is of varying importance depending on its frequency of operation. The smallest value capacitors should be as close as possible to the consumer to minimize the AC current loop area. Larger capacitors in the micro Farad range can be placed more or less anywhere.\n\nThe target impedance is the impedance at which the ripple created by the dynamic current of the specific consumer is within the specified range.\nThe target impedance is given by the following equation\nIn addition to the target impedance, it is important to know which frequencies it applies, and at which frequency the consumer package is responsible (this is specified in the datasheet of the specific consumer IC).\n\nOne usually use some form of simulation when designing the PDN to ensure that the PDN meets the target impedance. This can be done by SPICE simulation, chip vendor tools, capacitor venor tools, or by tools embedded in the EDA software.\n\n"}
{"id": "19910801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19910801", "title": "Rimed snow", "text": "Rimed snow\n\nRimed snow refers to snowflakes that are partially or completely coated in tiny frozen water droplets called 'rime'. Rime forms on a snowflake when it passes through a super-cooled cloud. Snowflakes that are heavily rimed typically produce very heavy and wet snow, with snow to liquid ratios in the 5-1 (i.e. five inches of snow per inch of rain) to 9-1 range.\n\nRimed snow has been found to provide greater initial stability for a snow layer. However, it also allows thicker, and therefore less stable, snow layers to build up. It could be argued that these cancel each other out.\n\nThere has been research into the effect of rimed snow on avalanches.\n"}
{"id": "27005714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27005714", "title": "Rudbar Lorestan Dam", "text": "Rudbar Lorestan Dam\n\nRudbar Lorestan Dam is a hydroelectric dam on the Rudbar River, a tributary of the Dez River, in Iran's Lorestan Province with an installed electricity generating capability of 450 MW. It was scheduled to become operational in 2013.. Finally, the dam was completed on September 15, 2016. The hydroelectric plant consisting of two 225-MW vertical Francis turbine-generator units has begun operating on May 31, 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "66315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=66315", "title": "Solid-state chemistry", "text": "Solid-state chemistry\n\nSolid-state chemistry, also sometimes referred as materials chemistry, is the study of the synthesis, structure, and properties of solid phase materials, particularly, but not necessarily exclusively of, non-molecular solids. It therefore has a strong overlap with solid-state physics, mineralogy, crystallography, ceramics, metallurgy, thermodynamics, materials science and electronics with a focus on the synthesis of novel materials and their characterisation. Solids can be classified as crystalline or amorphous on basis of the nature of order present in the arrangement of their constituent particles.\n\nBecause of its direct relevance to products of commerce, solid state inorganic chemistry has been strongly driven by technology. Progress in the field has often been fueled by the demands of industry, well ahead of academic curiosity. Applications discovered in the 20th century include zeolite and platinum-based catalysts for petroleum processing in the 1950s, high-purity silicon as a core component of microelectronic devices in the 1960s, and “high temperature” superconductivity in the 1980s. The invention of X-ray crystallography in the early 1900s by William Lawrence Bragg enabled further innovation. Our understanding of how reactions proceed at the atomic level in the solid state was advanced considerably by Carl Wagner's work on oxidation rate theory, counter diffusion of ions, and defect chemistry. Because of this, he has sometimes been referred to as the \"father of solid state chemistry\".\n\nGiven the diversity of solid state compounds, an equally diverse array of methods are used for their preparation. For organic materials, such as charge transfer salts, the methods operates near room temperature and are often similar to the techniques of organic synthesis. Redox reactions are sometimes conducted by electrocrystallisation, as illustrated by the preparation of the Bechgaard salts from tetrathiafulvalene.\n\nFor thermally robust materials, high temperature methods are often employed. For example, bulk solids are prepared using tube furnaces, which allow reactions to be conducted up to ca. 1100 °C. Special equipment e.g. ovens consisting of a tantalum tube through which an electric current is passed can be used for even higher temperatures up to 2000 °C. Such high temperatures are at times required to induce diffusion of the reactants, but this depends strongly on the system studied. Some solid state reactions already proceed at temperatures as low as 100 °C.\n\nOne method often employed is to melt the reactants together and then later anneal the solidified melt. If volatile reactants are involved the reactants are often put in an ampoule that is evacuated -ofnt mixture cold e.g. by keeping the bottom of the ampoule in liquid nitrogen- and then sealed. The sealed ampoule is then put in an oven and given a certain heat treatment...\n\nIt is possible to use solvents to prepare solids by precipitation or by evaporation. At times the solvent is used hydrothermal that is under pressure at temperatures higher than the normal boiling point. A variation on this theme is the use of flux methods, where a salt of relatively low melting point is added to the mixture to act as a high temperature solvent in which the desired reaction can take place. this can be very useful\n\nMany solids react vigorously with reactive gas species like chlorine, iodine, oxygen etc. Others form adducts with other gases, e.g. CO or ethylene. Such reactions are often carried out in a tube that is open ended on both sides and through which the gas is passed. A variation of this is to let the reaction take place inside a measuring device such as a TGA. In that case stoichiometric information can be obtained during the reaction, which helps identify the products.\n\nA special case of a gas reaction is a chemical transport reaction. These are often carried out in a sealed ampoule to which a small amount of a transport agent, e.g. iodine is added. The ampoule is then placed in a zone oven. This is essentially two tube ovens attached to each other which allows a temperature gradient to be imposed. Such a method can be used to obtain the product in the form of single crystals suitable for structure determination by X-ray diffraction.\n\nChemical vapour deposition is a high temperature method that is widely employed for the preparation of coatings and semiconductors from molecular precursors\n\nMany solids are hygroscopic and/or oxygen sensitive. Many halides e.g. are very 'thirsty' and can only be studied in their anhydrous form if they are handled in a glove box filled with dry (and/or oxygen-free) gas, usually nitrogen.\n\nThe synthetic methodology and the characterization of the product often go hand in hand in the sense that not one but a series of reaction mixtures are prepared and subjected to heat treatment. The stoichiometry is typically \"varied\" in a systematic way to find which stoichiometries will lead to new solid compounds or to solid solutions between known ones. A prime method to characterize the reaction products is powder diffraction, because many solid state reactions will produce polycristalline ingots or powders. Powder diffraction will facilitate the identification of known phases in the mixture. If a pattern is found that is not known in the diffraction data libraries an attempt can be made to index the pattern, i.e. to identify the symmetry and the size of the unit cell. (If the product is not crystalline the characterization is typically much more difficult.)\n\nOnce the unit cell of a new phase is known, the next step is to establish the stoichiometry of the phase. This can be done in a number of ways. Sometimes the composition of the original mixture will give a clue, if one finds only one product -a single powder pattern- or if one was trying to make a phase of a certain composition by analogy to known materials but this is rare.\nOften considerable effort in refining the synthetic methodology is required to obtain a pure sample of the new material.\nIf it is possible to separate the product from the rest of the reaction mixture elemental analysis can be used. Another way involves SEM and the generation of characteristic X-rays in the electron beam. The easiest way to solve the structure is by using single crystal X-ray diffraction.\n\nThe latter often requires \"revisiting\" and refining the preparative procedures and that is linked to the question which phases are stable at what composition and what stoichiometry. In other words, what does the phase diagram looks like. An important tool in establishing this is thermal analysis techniques like DSC or DTA and increasingly also, thanks to the advent of synchrotrons temperature-dependent powder diffraction. Increased knowledge of the phase relations often leads to further refinement in synthetic procedures in an iterative way. New phases are thus characterized by their melting points and their stoichiometric domains. The latter is important for the many solids that are non-stoichiometric compounds. The cell parameters obtained from XRD are particularly helpful to characterize the homogeneity ranges of the latter.\n\nIn many -but certainly not all- cases new solid compounds are further characterized by a variety of techniques that straddle the fine line that (hardly) separates solid-state chemistry from solid-state physics.\n\nFor non-metallic materials, it is often possible to obtain UV/VIS spectra. In the case of semiconductors that will give an idea of the band gap.\n\n"}
{"id": "105340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105340", "title": "Strange quark", "text": "Strange quark\n\nThe strange quark or s quark (from its symbol, s) is the third lightest of all quarks, a type of elementary particle. Strange quarks are found in subatomic particles called hadrons. Example of hadrons containing strange quarks include kaons (), strange D mesons (), Sigma baryons (), and other strange particles.\n\nAccording to the IUPAP the symbol s is the official name, while strange is to be considered only as a mnemonic. The name sideways has also been used because the s quark has a I value of 0 while the u (“up”) and d (“down”) quarks have values of + and − respectively.\n\nAlong with the charm quark, it is part of the second generation of matter, and has an electric charge of − \"e\" and a bare mass of . Like all quarks, the strange quark is an elementary fermion with spin , and experiences all four fundamental interactions: gravitation, electromagnetism, weak interactions, and strong interactions. The antiparticle of the strange quark is the strange antiquark (sometimes called \"antistrange quark\" or simply \"antistrange\"), which differs from it only in that some of its properties have equal magnitude but opposite sign.\n\nThe first strange particle (a particle containing a strange quark) was discovered in 1947 (kaons), but the existence of the strange quark itself (and that of the up and down quarks) was only postulated in 1964 by Murray Gell-Mann and George Zweig to explain the Eightfold Way classification scheme of hadrons. The first evidence for the existence of quarks came in 1968, in deep inelastic scattering experiments at the Stanford Linear Accelerator Center. These experiments confirmed the existence of up and down quarks, and by extension, strange quarks, as they were required to explain the Eightfold Way.\n\nIn the beginnings of particle physics (first half of the 20th century), hadrons such as protons, neutrons and pions were thought to be elementary particles. However, new hadrons were discovered and the 'particle zoo' grew from a few particles in the early 1930s and 1940s to several dozens of them in the 1950s. Some particles were much longer lived than others; most particles decayed through the strong interaction and had lifetimes of around 10 seconds. When they decayed through the weak interactions, they had lifetimes of around 10 seconds. While studying these decays, Murray Gell-Mann (in 1953) and Kazuhiko Nishijima (in 1955) developed the concept of \"strangeness\" (which Nishijima called \"eta-charge\", after the eta meson ()) to explain the 'strangeness' of the longer-lived particles. The Gell-Mann–Nishijima formula is the result of these efforts to understand strange decays.\n\nDespite their work, the relationships between each particle and the physical basis behind the strangeness property remained unclear. In 1961, Gell-Mann and Yuval Ne'eman independently proposed a hadron classification scheme called the Eightfold Way, also known as SU(3) flavor symmetry. This ordered hadrons into isospin multiplets. The physical basis behind both isospin and strangeness was only explained in 1964, when Gell-Mann and George Zweig independently proposed the quark model, which at that time consisted only of the up, down, and strange quarks. Up and down quarks were the carriers of isospin, while the strange quark carried strangeness. While the quark model explained the Eightfold Way, no direct evidence of the existence of quarks was found until 1968 at the Stanford Linear Accelerator Center. Deep inelastic scattering experiments indicated that protons had substructure, and that protons made of three more-fundamental particles explained the data (thus confirming the quark model).\n\nAt first people were reluctant to identify the three-bodies as quarks, instead preferring Richard Feynman's parton description, but over time the quark theory became accepted (see \"November Revolution\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "457036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=457036", "title": "Sulfur hexafluoride", "text": "Sulfur hexafluoride\n\nSulfur hexafluoride (SF) is an inorganic, colorless, odorless, non-flammable, extremely potent greenhouse gas, and an excellent electrical insulator. has an octahedral geometry, consisting of six fluorine atoms attached to a central sulfur atom. It is a hypervalent molecule. Typical for a nonpolar gas, it is poorly soluble in water but quite soluble in nonpolar organic solvents. It is generally transported as a liquefied compressed gas. It has a density of 6.12 g/L at sea level conditions, considerably higher than the density of air (1.225 g/L).\n\n can be prepared from the elements through exposure of to . This was also the method used by the discoverers Henri Moissan and Paul Lebeau in 1901. Some other sulfur fluorides are cogenerated, but these are removed by heating the mixture to disproportionate any (which is highly toxic) and then scrubbing the product with NaOH to destroy remaining .\n\nAlternatively, utilizing bromine, sulfur hexafluoride can be synthesized from SF and CoF at lower temperatures (e.g. 100 °C), as follows:\n\nThere is virtually no reaction chemistry for . A main contribution to the inertness of SF is the steric hindrance of the sulfur atom, whereas its heavier group 16 counterparts, such as SeF are more reactive than SF as a result of less steric hindrance (See hydrolysis example). It does not react with molten sodium below its boiling point, but reacts exothermically with lithium.\n\nMore than 10,000 tons of are produced per year, most of which (over 8,000 tons) is used as a gaseous dielectric medium in the electrical industry. Other main uses include an inert gas for the casting of magnesium, and as an inert filling for insulated glazing windows.\n\n is used in the electrical industry as a gaseous dielectric medium for high-voltage circuit breakers, switchgear, and other electrical equipment, often replacing oil filled circuit breakers (OCBs) that can contain harmful PCBs. gas under pressure is used as an insulator in gas insulated switchgear (GIS) because it has a much higher dielectric strength than air or dry nitrogen. The high dielectric strength is a result of the gas's high electronegativity and density. This property makes it possible to significantly reduce the size of electrical gear. This makes GIS more suitable for certain purposes such as indoor placement, as opposed to air-insulated electrical gear, which takes up considerably more room. Gas-insulated electrical gear is also more resistant to the effects of pollution and climate, as well as being more reliable in long-term operation because of its controlled operating environment. Exposure to an arc chemically breaks down though most of the decomposition products tend to quickly re-form , a process termed \"self-healing\". Arcing or corona can produce disulfur decafluoride (), a highly toxic gas, with toxicity similar to phosgene. was considered a potential chemical warfare agent in World War II because it does not produce lacrimation or skin irritation, thus providing little warning of exposure.\n\nAlternatives include fluoroketone.\n\n is used to provide a tamponade or plug of a retinal hole in retinal detachment repair operations in the form of a gas bubble. It is inert in the vitreous chamber and initially doubles its volume in 36 hours before being absorbed in the blood in 10–14 days.\n\nSulfur hexafluoride was the tracer gas used in the first roadway air dispersion model calibration; this research program was sponsored by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and conducted in Sunnyvale, California on U.S. Highway 101. Gaseous is used as a tracer gas in short-term experiments of ventilation efficiency in buildings and indoor enclosures, and for determining infiltration rates. Two major factors recommend its use: its concentration can be measured with satisfactory accuracy at very low concentrations, and the Earth's atmosphere has a negligible concentration of .\n\nSulfur hexafluoride was used as a non-toxic test gas in an experiment at St. John's Wood tube station in London, United Kingdom on 25 March 2007. The gas was released throughout the station, and monitored as it drifted around. The purpose of the experiment, which had been announced earlier in March by the Secretary of State for Transport Douglas Alexander, was to investigate how toxic gas might spread throughout London Underground stations and buildings during a terrorist attack.\n\nSulfur hexafluoride is also routinely used as a tracer gas in laboratory fume hood containment testing. The gas is used in the final stage of ASHRAE 110 fume hood qualification. A plume of gas is generated inside of the fume hood and a battery of tests are performed while a gas analyzer arranged outside of the hood samples for SF to verify the containment properties of the fume hood.\n\nIt has been used successfully as a tracer in oceanography to study diapycnal mixing and air-sea gas exchange.\n\n\nAccording to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, is the most potent greenhouse gas that it has evaluated, with a global warming potential of 23,900 times that of when compared over a 100-year period. Measurements of SF show that its global average mixing ratio has increased by about 0.2 ppt (parts per trillion) per year to over 9 ppt as of February 2018. Sulfur hexafluoride is also extremely long-lived, is inert in the troposphere and stratosphere and has an estimated atmospheric lifetime of 800–3200 years. is very stable (for countries reporting their emissions to the UNFCCC, a GWP of 23,900 for was suggested at the third Conference of the Parties: GWP used in Kyoto protocol). Average global SF concentrations increased by about seven percent per year during the 1980s and 1990s, mostly as the result of its use in the magnesium production industry, and by electrical utilities and electronics manufacturers. Given the small amounts of SF released compared to carbon dioxide, its overall contribution to global warming is estimated to be less than 0.2 percent.\n\nIn Europe, falls under the F-Gas directive which ban or control its use for several applications. Since 1 January 2006, is banned as a tracer gas and in all applications except high-voltage switchgear. It was reported in 2013 that a three-year effort by the United States Department of Energy to identify and fix leaks at its laboratories in the United States such as the Princeton Plasma Physics Laboratory, where the gas is used as a high voltage insulator, had been productive, cutting annual leaks by 35,000 pounds. This was done by comparing purchases with inventory, assuming the difference was leaked, then locating and fixing the leaks.\n\nLike xenon, sulfur hexafluoride is a non-toxic gas, yet by displacing oxygen in the lungs, it also carries the risk of asphyxia if too much is inhaled. Being more dense than air, if a substantial quantity of gas is released it will settle in low-lying areas and present a significant risk of asphyxiation if the area is entered. This is particularly relevant to its use as an insulator in electrical equipment where workers may be in trenches or pits below equipment containing .\n\nAs with all gases, the density of affects the resonance frequencies of the vocal tract, thus changing drastically the vocal sound qualities, or timbre, of those who inhale it. It does not affect the vibrations of the vocal folds. The density of sulfur hexafluoride is relatively high at room temperature and pressure due to the gas's large molar mass. Unlike helium, which has a molar mass of about 4 grams/mol and gives the voice a childish and a \"chipmunk like\" quality, has a molar mass of about 146 g/mol, and the speed of sound through the gas is about 134 m/s at room temperature, giving the voice a \"demonic\" quality when is inhaled. For comparison, the molar mass of air, which is about 80% nitrogen and 20% oxygen, is approximately 30 g/mol which leads to a speed of sound of 343 m/s.\n\nSulfur hexafluoride has an anesthetic potency slightly lower than nitrous oxide.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32679684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32679684", "title": "Sun-free photovoltaics", "text": "Sun-free photovoltaics\n\nSun-free photovoltaics is a photovoltaics technology which does not require sunlight to produce electricity. This technique was developed by research team at Massachusetts Institute of Technology Photovoltaic cells convert light to electricity most efficiently at specific wavelengths. The surface featured of Sun-free photovoltaics is engineered such that it converts heat energy into the specific wavelengths. This increases the efficiency of existing thermophotovoltaic (TPV) systems.\n\nThe surface of this material is etched with billions of nanoscale pits, so that it emits wave at the specified wavelengths and suppresses other wavelengths which are not required. When the surface is exposed to heat energy, it radiates light energy at required wavelengths. The atoms liberates free electrons when radiation is applied, thus generating electricity.\n\nA device that uses radioisotopes is capable of producing electricity for up to 30 years without interruption using a process called radioactive decay. Another similar device was developed by researchers from MIT, which uses butane as a fuel source. It has the size of a button and is estimated to operate three times longer than a similarly sized lithium-ion battery and has the advantage of recharging immediately upon refuelling. Thermo-photovoltaics, which is a technology developed in the 1960s, is capable of converting heat energy into electricity. It was previously known that sunlight is not absolutely necessary for photovoltaic cells to operate. Infrared radiation is not utilized efficiently in photovoltaic materials which are characterized by low band gap, though the performance is comparatively better than normal silicon photovoltaic cells. One example of photovoltaics utilizing heat is a photovoltaic diode which produces electricity from heat given off by a hydrocarbon fuelled thermal emitter.\n\nIn Sun-free photovoltaics, the thermal emitter described above is finely tuned to emit specific wavelengths that the photovoltaic diode can utilize, while at the same time stopping the wavelengths that cannot be used by the diode. This is achieved by etching features of nanoscale like ridges and holes on a photonic crystal so that the light passing through the crystal can be modified.\n\nA slab of tungsten is used as a thermal emitter with billions of nanoscale pits on the surface, with each pit acting like a resonator. On heating, specific wavelengths are radiated by the slab as it generates an altered emission spectrum.\n\nSun-free photovoltaics can be applied in electronic devices like smartphones. Its value of current density has the capability to be tripled in the coming years, when it could power a smartphone for more than 20 days without needing to recharge in between. It can also be used to utilize waste heat from electric appliances like televisions and electronic appliances like mobile phones.\n\n"}
{"id": "49788986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49788986", "title": "Tapovan Vishnugad Hydropower Plant", "text": "Tapovan Vishnugad Hydropower Plant\n\nThe Tapovan Vishnugad Hydropower Plant is a 520 MW run-of-river hydroelectric project being constructed on Dhauliganga River in Chamoli District of Uttarakhand, India. The plant is expected to generate over 2.5k GWh of electricity annually.\n\nTapovan Vishnugad is NTPC’s second hydro power project since its foray into the sector. The 520 MW run-of-the-river project is situated on river Dhauliganga in Chamoli district of Uttarakhand. Its’ journey started with NTPC entering into an understanding with the Govt. of Uttarakhand for feasibility study for the project on 31.12.2002 and then signing the Implementation Agreement on 23.06.2004. Currently, it is in advanced stage of construction with around 70% of the implementation completed. The project has set its target for commissioning in first half on FY 2020-21.\n\nThe Foundation Stone of TVHPP was laid by Shri P M Saeed, the then Union Minister for Power, on 14th February 2005 in the august presence of Shri ND Tiwari, CM of Uttarakhand.\n\nThe power plant is located downstream on the Alaknanda River and will contain four 130 MW Pelton turbine-generators. The barrage is being constructed across the Dhauliganga River and has a catchment area of 3,100 sq km.\n\nBHEL was awarded the contract to supply four 130MW Pelton type turbines for the Tapovan Vishnugad hydroelectric power project. The contractual scope also included the testing, commissioning and operation of the generators, switchgear and excitation system.\n"}
{"id": "1879354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879354", "title": "Telluride (chemistry)", "text": "Telluride (chemistry)\n\nThe telluride ion is the anion Te and its derivatives. It is analogous to the other chalcogenide anions, the lighter O, S, and Se, and the heavier Po.\n\nThe telluride anion is formed from the reduction of tellurium (Te) metal. The redox potential of pure Te metal is fairly negative, −1.14 V.\n\nThe acid hydride of tellurium, hydrogen telluride, HTe, is an unstable compound that decomposes to tellurium metal. It is strongly acidic, dissociating into a hydrogen telluride ion (HTe) in aqueous solutions. Like its sulfide and selenide counterparts, the Te anion only exists in aqueous solutions in basic conditions.\n\n\"Tellurides\" also describe a class of organotellurium compounds formally derived from Te. An illustrative member is dimethyl telluride, which results from the methylation of telluride salts:\nDimethyl telluride is formed by the body when tellurium is ingested. Such compounds are often called telluroethers because they are structurally related to ethers with tellurium replacing oxygen, although the length of the C–Te bond is much longer than a C–O bond. C–Te–C angles tend to be closer to 90°.\n\nMany metal tellurides are known, including some telluride minerals. These include natural gold tellurides, like calaverite and krennerite (AuTe), and sylvanite (AgAuTe). Commercially, the tellurides are minor ores of gold, although they comprise the major naturally occurring compounds of gold. (A few other natural compounds of gold, such as the bismuthide maldonite (AuBi) and antimonide aurostibite (AuSb), are known). Although the bonding in such materials is often fairly covalent, they are described casually as salts of Te. Using this approach, AgTe is derived from Ag and Te.\n\nTellurides do not have any great economic importance. Cadmium telluride does however have photovoltaic properties, and both bismuth telluride and lead telluride are exceptional thermoelectric materials, although not commercialized.\n"}
{"id": "8435317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8435317", "title": "Thomas Green &amp; Son", "text": "Thomas Green &amp; Son\n\nThomas Green & Son, Ltd. were engineers who manufactured a wide range of products at the Smithfield Foundry, Leeds, United Kingdom.\n\nThomas Green came to Leeds from Carlton-on-Trent near Newark and founded the company in 1835. The company was originally located at 34 Lower Head Row (now Eastgate), Leeds, and specialised in all types of wirework, including wire weaving and galvanising. The Smithfield Foundry site in North Street was purchased in 1848 and the first buildings were erected in 1850. In 1900 they took over the former Smithfield Hotel which became the front entrance and offices. In 1863 a London office was opened, principally to serve the overseas trade. This was followed in 1881 by the opening of the \"Surrey Works\" in Blackfriars, London. Improvements in trade led to the opening of the \"New Surrey Works\" in 1902.\n\nOne of the products that Greens are most known for, the lawnmower, was first constructed in 1855. The earliest lawn mower was patented by E. B. Budding of Stroud, Gloucestershire in 1830. Green improved the Budding design by adding a rake to lift the grass and reducing its weight. In 1858 Greens machine won first prize at the first lawn mower trial conducted at the London Horticultural Gardens, Chiswick. A short-lived product, introduced in 1902, was the steam-powered lawnmower, targeted at groundsmen. Greens produced mowers in a wide range of sizes from 8in to 42in and these were given grand names, such as Silens Messor (Britain’s first chain driven mower) and Multum in Parvo (with little, much), and along with Ransomes of Ipswich and Shanks of Arbroath, dominated the market until the First World War.\n\nOne of the products that Greens became well known for was steam tram engines. The use of steam tramways in Britain was effectively prohibited by the draconian rules contained in the so-called Red Flag Act or more correctly the Locomotive Acts of 1861 and 1865. The introduction of new regulations, The Highways & Locomotives (Amendments) Act 1879 set out a more workable arrangement as follows:-\n\n\nThomas Green commenced building tramway locomotives in 1885. These locomotives were initially of the Wilkinson’s patent, built under licence. This design used a vertical boiler and a vertically mounted engine which drove one set of wheels through gears. The second pair of wheels was driven through coupling rods. The exhaust passed through a chamber in the firebox to provide reheat, which in principle would make the steam invisible. The speed governor was an \"Allen\" paddle type which acted on the reversing gear.\n\nThirty-nine Wilkinson type trams were delivered before Green’s developed their own design using a horizontal boiler, inclined cylinders and Joy valve gear. The machine quickly evolved such that Green’s tram engines became one of the market leaders.\n\nSome of Green's customers for steam tram engines were:\n\n\nOthers were despatched to Penang and Kimberley. According to Whitcombe, 157 were built, the last in 1898 for Kimberley, South Africa.\n\nIn a letter written in 1936 by Mr C.V.Clark of Thomas Green, he explains how the tram locomotives were constructed and transported. \"“Do you remember me shewing you the engine shop down that back street? Well, the engine boiler, motion and wheels were put together on the ground floor. The body of mild steel-plate was completed on the top floor of the building, say 50 feet or more up, Then two large trap-doors were opened, and the job was lowered onto the business end of the affair and it only remained to be bolted to the frames and get steamed up. If Leeds were taking delivery, a lot of flat plates were laid down the street during the night, and by brute force and cuss words the engine was run up under it’s own steam, then slewed round and dropped in the tram-lines.”\"\n\nThe first conventional locomotive, an 0-4-0 well tank, was built in 1888 for Australia. Subsequently nearly forty locomotives were built of side or saddle tank arrangement. Two were exported in 1908 through Robert Hudson. In the period 1902 to 1904, three were bought for the construction of the Colsterdale Reservoir for Harrogate Corporation. These were HARROGATE and CLARO both 0-4-2 saddle tanks and MASHAM an 0-6-2 saddle tank. A similar 0-6-2 saddle tank locomotive BARBER was delivered to Harrogate Gas Company. Three locomotives complete with circular railways were constructed in 1895 for fairgrounds. Eight locomotives were sent to Ireland, three 2-6-2 side tanks to the West Clare Railway, three to the Dublin & Blessington and two 0-4-4 side tanks to the Cork & Muskerry Railway. In 1897, two 0-4-0 saddle tanks are recorded as being delivered to the Lima Railway, Peru. In 1920, the last locomotive of a series of nine was exported to Societe Generale de Paris, France.\n\nBARBER has survived and after many years in storage at Armley Mills Museum in Leeds and an unsuccessful attempt to overhaul it, this locomotive is now owned by the South Tynedale Railway, Alston, Cumbria. Due to the extensive nature of the overhaul that was required, it is now expected that this will be completed early in 2014 and the locomotive returned to steam for the first time since the 1940s. During 2014, there will be a special gala when BARBER and HARROGATE will be seen together in steam (sources - STR leaflet 2013; STR video re;spring gala 2012; STR fundraising leaflet). The full overhaul has been made possible by private donations and grants from public bodies. It will haul passenger trains on the South Tynedale from Alston, across the Northumberland – Cumbria border, first to Lintley Halt and later, when the line is reopened about 2016, to the village of Slaggyford.\n\nThomas Green also produced a range of steam road vehicles including fairground centre-engines, road tractors and agricultural tractors. Perhaps their most well known product in this range was the steamroller, which commenced in 1872 with a vertical boilered model for the Royal Gardens, Windsor. Shortly afterward, in 1880, a convertible model (i.e. traction engine or road roller) was introduced. A conventional horizontal boilered model followed this in 1881. The range was developed to encompass the whole range of weights (3 ton to 12 ton) and styles (tandem roller, triple roller) which enabled them to become one of the market leaders, with around 300 machines supplied.\n\nWith an eye on sports grounds, Greens introduced the first of a range of petrol engined rollers in 1905. The diesel engined DRM model in the 1930s, and lighter versions, the DRL and DRX, superseded these. In the 1960s, the \"Workman\" was designed together with a heavier model, the \"Pacemaker.\"\n\nMany other types of products were produced, including gas and petrol engines, boilers, food-preparing machinery, stable furnishings, garden furniture, ornamental gates and railings. There are still public houses in Leeds with Thomas Green cast iron tables. The firm also made about 50 portable electric lighting sets between 1895 and 1901 chiefly for showmen.\n\nDuring the First World War the works continued to produce road rollers alongside the inevitable military products such as Mine Sinkers, Lathes, Bombs, Mortar Shells, Artillery wheels. The manager during this period was George W Blackburn whose son Robert Blackburn founded the Blackburn Aeroplane Company. Indeed, some of Roberts’s early efforts were constructed at Smithfield foundry.\n\nAfter the First World War the lawnmower trade was developed by fitting a \"Young\" two-stroke engine to their hand machines. The engine was changed in 1922 to the \"Dalman\" and so successful was this combination that in 1923, Greens took on the manufacture of these engines. The introduction of engine manufacture inevitably led to further engine designs being developed to match the range of mowers being produced. Subsequently, gang mowers for cricket pitches and playing fields became one of the main products, indeed such famous grounds as Headingley and Trent Bridge used Greens equipment.\n\nManufacturing during the Second World War consisted primarily of parts for Blackburn Aircraft and in 1951 this company took control of the business. With amalgamations in the aircraft industry, Hawker Siddeley took over the business in 1960, but this was not a successful marriage and in 1975 Greens were sold to Atkinsons of Clitheroe and the Leeds works closed.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1537097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1537097", "title": "Voltage-regulator tube", "text": "Voltage-regulator tube\n\nA voltage-regulator tube (VR tube) is an electronic component used as a shunt regulator to hold a voltage constant at a pre-determined level.\n\nPhysically, these devices resemble vacuum tubes, but there are two main differences:\n\nElectrically, these devices resemble Zener diodes, with the following major differences:\nWhen sufficient voltage is applied across the electrodes, the gas ionizes, forming a glow discharge around the cathode electrode. The VR tube then acts as a negative resistance device; as the current through the device increases, the amount of ionization also increases, reducing the resistance of the device to further current flow. In this way, the device conducts sufficient current to hold the voltage across its terminals to the desired value.\n\nBecause the device would conduct a nearly unlimited amount of current, there must be some external means of limiting the current. Usually, this is provided by an external resistor upstream from the VR tube. The VR tube then conducts any portion of the current that does not flow into the downstream load, maintaining an approximately constant voltage across the VR tube's electrodes. The VR tube's regulation voltage was only guaranteed when conducting an amount of current within the allowable range. In particular, if the current through the tube is too low to maintain ionization, the output voltage can rise above the nominal output—as far as the input supply voltage. If the current through the tube is too high, it can enter an arc discharge mode where the voltage will be significantly lower than nominal and the tube may be damaged.\n\nSome voltage-regulator tubes contained small amounts of radionuclides to produce a more reliable ionization.\n\nThe \"Corona\" VR tube is a high-voltage version that's hydrogen-filled at close to atmospheric pressure, for voltages ranging from 400 V to 30 kV at tens of microamperes. It has a coaxial form; the outer cylindrical electrode is the cathode and the inner one is the anode. The voltage stability depends on the gas pressure.\n\nIn America, VR tubes were given RETMA tube part numbers. Lacking a heater (filament), the tube's part numbers began with \"0\" (zero).\n\nIn Europe, VR tubes were given part numbers under the professional system (\"ZZ1xxx\") and under a dedicated system.\n\nIn USSR, glow-discharge stabilitrons were given designation in Cyrillic with serial number of development. For example, \"СГ21Б\", \"СГ204К\" and i.e.\n\nVR tubes were only available in certain voltages. Common models were:\n\nOctal-based tubes, 5–40 mA current:\n\nMiniature tubes, 5–30 mA current:\n\nMiniature tubes, 1–10 mA current:\n\nVoltage reference 1.5–3.0 mA current:\n\nSubminiature tubes:\n\nMiniature corona tubes, 5–55 µA current:\n\nWire-ended, subminiature corona tubes:\n\nThe pinout of VR tubes was designed so that power could be forced to flow \"through\" the VR tubes to the load. That is, the load current would flow in one pin of the VR tube and out through a second pin. In this way, the circuit could be arranged so that unplugging the VR tube would disconnect the load. (Otherwise, unplugging the VR tube would have allowed the voltage to become unregulated, possibly rising as high as the source voltage and damaging the downstream load.)\n\nBecause the glow discharge is a \"statistical\" process, a certain amount of electrical noise is introduced into the regulated voltage as the level of ionization varies. In most cases, this could be easily filtered out by placing a small capacitor in parallel with the VR tube or using an RC decoupling network downstream of the VR tube. Too large a capacitance (>0.1μF for an 0D3, for instance), however, and the circuit will form a relaxation oscillator, definitely ruining the voltage regulation and possibly causing the tube to fail catastrophically.\n\nVR tubes could be operated in series for greater voltage ranges. They could not be operated in parallel: because of manufacturing variations, the current would not be shared equally among several tubes in parallel. (Note the equivalent behavior with series and parallel connected Zener diodes.)\n\nPresently, VR tubes have been almost-entirely supplanted by solid state regulators based on Zener diodes and avalanche breakdown diodes.\n\nCorrectly operating VR tubes glow during normal operation. The color of the glow varies depending upon the gas mixture used to fill the tubes.\n\nThough they lack a heater, VR tubes often do become warm during operation due to the current and voltage drop through them.\n"}
{"id": "14391804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14391804", "title": "Wilberforce pendulum", "text": "Wilberforce pendulum\n\nA Wilberforce pendulum, invented by British physicist Lionel Robert Wilberforce around 1896, consists of a mass suspended by a long helical spring and free to turn on its vertical axis, twisting the spring. It is an example of a coupled mechanical oscillator, often used as a demonstration in physics education. The mass can both bob up and down on the spring, and rotate back and forth about its vertical axis with torsional vibrations. When correctly adjusted and set in motion, it exhibits a curious motion in which periods of purely rotational oscillation gradually alternate with periods of purely up and down oscillation. The energy stored in the device shifts slowly back and forth between the translational 'up and down' oscillation mode and the torsional 'clockwise and counterclockwise' oscillation mode, until the motion eventually dies away. \n\nDespite the name, in normal operation it does not swing back and forth as ordinary pendulums do. The mass usually has opposing pairs of radial 'arms' sticking out horizontally, threaded with small weights that can be screwed in or out to adjust the moment of inertia to 'tune' the torsional vibration period.\n\nThe device's intriguing behavior is caused by a slight coupling between the two motions or degrees of freedom, due to the geometry of the spring. When the weight is moving up and down, each downward excursion of the spring causes it to unwind slightly, giving the weight a slight twist. When the weight moves up, it causes the spring to wind slightly tighter, giving the weight a slight twist in the other direction. So when the weight is moving up and down, each oscillation gives a slight alternating rotational torque to the weight. In other words, during each oscillation some of the energy in the translational mode leaks into the rotational mode. Slowly the up and down movement gets less, and the rotational movement gets greater, until the weight is just rotating and not bobbing. \n\nSimilarly, when the weight is rotating back and forth, each twist of the weight in the direction that unwinds the spring also reduces the spring tension slightly, causing the weight to sag a little lower. Conversely, each twist of the weight in the direction of winding the spring tighter causes the tension to increase, pulling the weight up slightly. So each oscillation of the weight back and forth causes it to bob up and down more, until all the energy is transferred back from the rotational mode into the translational mode and it is just bobbing up and down, not rotating.\n\nThe frequency at which the two modes alternate is equal to the difference between the oscillation frequencies of the modes. The closer in frequency the two motions are, the slower will be the alternation between them. This behavior, common to all coupled oscillators, is analogous to the phenomenon of beats in musical instruments, in which two tones combine to produce a 'beat' tone at the difference between their frequencies. For example, if the pendulum bobs up and down at a rate of f = 4 Hz, and rotates back and forth about its axis at a rate of f = 4.1 Hz, the alternation rate f will be:\n\nformula_1 \n\nformula_2\n\nSo the motion will change from rotational to translational in 5 seconds and then back to rotational in the next 5 seconds.\n\nThe pendulum is usually adjusted by moving the moment of inertia adjustment weights in or out equal amounts on each side, until the rotational frequency is close to the translational frequency, so the alternation period will be slow enough to allow the change between the two modes to be clearly seen.\n\n"}
{"id": "25484472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25484472", "title": "Winter of 2009–10 in Europe", "text": "Winter of 2009–10 in Europe\n\nThe winter of 2009–2010 in Europe was unusually cold. Globally, unusual weather patterns brought cold, moist air from the north. Weather systems were undergoing cyclogenesis from North American storms moving across the Atlantic Ocean to the west, and saw many parts of Europe experiencing heavy snowfall and record-low temperatures. This led to a number of deaths, widespread transport disruption, power failures and postponed sporting events.\n\nThe cold weather was caused by high pressure over Greenland and Iceland forcing weather patterns southward, a phenomenon described by meteorologists as the Arctic Oscillation and also the North Atlantic Oscillation which were negative compared to normal. The North Atlantic Oscillation in Winter 2009/10 was lower than during any winter in over a century and this resulted in more easterly winds bringing cold air into Northern Europe from Siberia and the Arctic. Scientists have shown that El Niño, the Quasi-Biennial Oscillation and solar variability all conspired to drive this extreme winter.\n\nLight snowfall occurred in the UK on 16 December and weather warnings were given on most local TV stations; there were some traffic jams towards the south. The snow later spread towards France and northern Spain. In mainland Europe, early snowfall was seen across much of the western half of the continent. On 17 December, the Swiss canton of Grisons saw a record-low overnight temperature of −32 °C (−25.6 °F). This snowfall led to the shutdown of Utrecht Centraal (the largest rail hub in the Netherlands). While snowfall on highways led to the busiest morning rush hour of 2009, with a total of 671 km (417 m) in traffic jams. The following day, heavy overnight snowfall caused widespread disruption across large parts of the South East, East Anglia, the East Midlands and Yorkshire and the Humber in Britain. This snow was in the north half of a depression with east winds centred south of England. Several deaths attributed to the cold weather were reported.\n\nDuring the night of 18–19 December, five Eurostar trains were stuck in the Channel Tunnel, trapping more than 2,000 people for up to 16 hours after the vehicles suffered electrical failures because of freezing overnight temperatures. Passengers were without heating, lighting and air-conditioning for several hours while food and water ran out. Some passengers were evacuated via service tunnels to car trains, while others were kept on their trains until the trains could be towed out. Eurostar added special services on the evening of 19 December to transport \"vulnerable passengers\" between London, Paris and Brussels. However, a service from Paris became the sixth train to break down after becoming stuck near Ebbsfleet, Kent. The cause of the breakdowns was unclear; Eurostar initially blamed the sudden contrast between freezing temperatures above ground and the heat of the tunnel, which affected the high-speed engines.\n\nOn 20 December in the Netherlands, the Royal Dutch Meteorological Institute (KNMI) issued an official weather alarm for the entire country following heavy snowfall () in the west, which eventually spread to the entire country. In most cities bus services were halted and tram service was halted in all four major cities.\nIn northern Italy several locations recorded the lowest temperatures since 1985, with one low reaching −17 °C (1.4 °F).\nPolice in Poland reported that 15 people froze to death in the country as overnight temperatures fell as low as and 47 people died indirectly as a result of the cold during the month of December. Public appeals were made to the Polish community to report any homeless or drunk people lying outdoors, in an attempt to reduce the number of deaths from exposure to the cold.\n\nIn Kosovo, one person died and ten people were injured in traffic accidents because of poor weather conditions. Kosovo Police spokesperson, Arbër Beka, said that one person died in an accident which occurred near Đakovica; there were injuries reported in 16 traffic accidents, and a total of 74 accidents causing property damage. The local police called on residents to be careful on the roads because of the heavy snowfall and very difficult driving conditions.\n\nOn 21 December, the M25 motorway and large parts of the M3, M4, M40, M1 and M11 motorways in the United Kingdom were brought to a standstill until late at night and many towns were gridlocked. About 100 people were able to travel from London Victoria Station to Ashford International railway station on a steam train hauled by the locomotive \"Tornado\". Widespread transport disruption affected parts of England, Wales, Scotland and Ireland (except a few southern parts of Munster).\n\nIn Bosnia and Herzegovina, three people were found dead from hypothermia in Sarajevo and Teslić.\nFresh overnight snowfall brought renewed problems to parts of the United Kingdom. Particularly badly hit were north Hampshire and the Thames Valley in England. In Basingstoke, some 3,000 motorists were forced to either abandon their vehicles or sleep in them overnight after becoming stuck in gridlocked traffic; approximately 2,000 cars were abandoned. The vehicle recovery service, AA, accused some local authorities of not acting quickly enough to grit the roads, claiming some \"key roads\" had \"not been gritted at all\". The Local Government Association dismissed the claims as \"unverified, unsubstantiated and unjustified\". A man found unconscious in his back garden on the Isle of Lewis, in the Outer Hebrides, after a night out over the weekend died. A homeless charity in France reported that 12 people died during December as a result of the severe cold.\n\nOn 23 December, overnight temperatures in the UK once again dropped well below freezing. Dalwhinnie in the central Highlands of Scotland recorded a low of and Edinburgh recorded , causing Scottish Transport Minister Stewart Stevenson to state that conditions on Scottish roads were at their worst in 20 years. Air travel was disrupted in the United Kingdom, with Southampton Airport cancelling (or diverting) all inbound and outbound flights until midday due to a frozen runway. Train services were cancelled for most of the day from Southampton Airport Parkway. A Ryanair flight landing at Prestwick Airport overshot the runway; no injuries were reported and the airport was soon reopened. Two women were killed and more than 40 people injured following a coach crash on an ungritted country road in Cornwall, as a party returned from a trip to see Christmas lights in Mousehole the previous evening. Weather forecasters warned of icy conditions and further snowfall into Christmas Eve, particularly affecting northern England and the East Midlands.\n\nIn western Serbia, rapidly melting snow caused the Jadar River in Loznica to flood and resulted in farmland being submerged. Danijela Despotović, of the Hydro-Meteorological Service of Serbia in Loznica, said that the temperature was in the town. Heavy snowfall began in Saint Petersburg, Russia. By 26 December the city was under 35 cm of snow, creating the largest December snowfall recorded in the city since 1881.\nOn Christmas Day, parts of Britain had a White Christmas for the first time since 2004 after snow fell in northern and central Scotland and parts of England (including Nottinghamshire). A man in Leeds, West Yorkshire, froze to death after spending 24 hours in his car. A total of 21 people were reported to have died during the cold spell in the UK\nThe Netherlands had its first white Christmas since 1981.\n\nOn 26 December (Boxing Day), drivers in Northern Ireland were warned of icy conditions. Conditions in many other parts of the UK continued to improve as milder air moved in from the south. However, northern England and Scotland remained cold and nighttime temperatures continued to drop below freezing. Some Boxing Day sporting fixtures were cancelled (or postponed) because of continuing icy conditions in certain areas, including the National Hunt meeting at Towcester and all but two of the Scottish Football League's matches. Some parts of East Anglia suffered electricity cuts, including Dedham, Stratford St Mary and parts of Colchester; in more remote parts of the region, some were without power for 36 hours.\n\nParts of England again suffered power cuts on 26–27 December. Scotland experienced fresh snowfall overnight; Perthshire being the most-affected area, where between fell.\nTemperatures fell to in Tyndrum overnight on 27–28 December, and to at Tulloch Bridge in the Highlands. The Met Office issued fresh severe weather warnings and motorists were advised to drive with caution. The A75 between Stranraer and Newton Stewart was closed due to icy conditions; while the southbound carriageway of the A9 was blocked between the A824 and B8081 in Perth and Kinross following an accident at Gleneagles.\n\nTemperatures dropped to in parts of the Highlands overnight on 28–29 December, with Braemar recording Britain's lowest temperature of the Winter. Fresh travel warnings were issued on 29 December, as wintry conditions continued to cause problems on Scotland's roads. The runway of Inverness Airport was briefly closed because of snow and ice, and First ScotRail reduced its service to and from Glasgow Central because of the severe conditions.\nHowever, the snow and icy conditions were good for the Scottish ski industry, which said the weather helped it to experience its best start to the season for several years. Warnings of heavy snow were issued for Wales, the Midlands, Yorkshire and Humber, north-west England, eastern and southern England. More snow began falling across parts of Wales/central and northern England on the evening of 29 December, with Wales recording the heaviest of the snow showers; some rural areas recording up to . Snow was also reported in parts of the West Midlands region and Yorkshire.\n\nOn 30 December, Sportscotland Avalanche Information Service (SAIS) issued warnings about conditions on Scottish mountains. However, three people died in three large avalanches. Two climbers were killed as a result of a snow slide on Ben Nevis, while a man was airlifted from Liathach (a mountain in Torridon) after getting into trouble, but died in hospital.\n\nContinued icy weather in Scotland on New Year's Eve led to the cancellation of Hogmanay celebrations in Inverness, amid concerns over public safety; New Year celebrations in other parts of Scotland went ahead as planned. Northeast Scotland experienced fresh snowfall during the afternoon and evening of 31 December. For a second time that week Inverness Airport was closed, forcing several hundred passengers to make alternative arrangements. In Batley, West Yorkshire, 2,500 gallons of water leaked into the local gas network; 400 homes in Dewsbury and Batley were without gas during subzero temperatures. The final homes were reconnected on 7 January. There was also heavy snowfall in Dublin, Ireland, leading to the closure of Dublin Airport for several hours disrupting flights.\nIn Dublin, the snow began 10 minutes before the New Year's Eve countdown.\n\nFresh overnight snowfall on New Year's Eve and New Year's Day caused disruption in North East England, Cumbria and the Scottish Borders. In some places it was as deep as , and motorists were warned not to travel unless absolutely necessary. On 2 January, the synoptic position settled with the jet stream in a route causing a blocking high in the eastern Atlantic. This diverted warm west winds to the south over the Mediterranean and subjected western Europe to cold north winds, warm weather around the Caspian Sea and unusually cold weather in China. A weather front brought heavy snow to north west England. In Britain many roads were closed, including part of the M9.\nOn 3 January parts of northeast England and Cumbria had of snow, and Edinburgh had . Europe's largest private-sector weather business, MeteoGroup, announced that the previous month was the coldest December (on average) since 1996. Temperatures remained very cold throughout Ireland and Britain; however, Inverness Airport reopened after several days. It was announced that due to the cold snap, it would be illegal to shoot certain game birds. An all-time snow record in the Estonian capital, Tallinn, was measured at 62 cm (two feet).\n\nThe next day in Scotland, Fife Council became the first local council to confirm that its supplies of grit were exhausted after it received less than it had ordered from suppliers. Ministers denied there was a shortage of grit and salt, insisting there were \"very substantial\" supplies for Scotland's roads. In its monthly summary \"Met Éireann\", Ireland's weather service, said December was the coldest month for 28 years for most of the country and the coldest of any month since February 1986 at several stations. Wintry conditions returned to Europe, as much of the northern hemisphere was gripped by intensely cold weather. 13 people died in Poland, bringing the total number of cold-related deaths in Poland to 122. In Switzerland, ten skiers were reported dead or missing in avalanches. The worst incident occurred in the Diemtig Valley; avalanches hit a group of skiers and their rescuers, killing four people (including a doctor). Eight people were rescued, although three remained missing.\n\nOn 5 January, the Met Office issued weather warnings for every region in the UK except the Northern Isles. An extreme-weather warning was issued in the southern areas for overnight snowfall, which could bring accumulations from . BBC Weather and the Met Office also warned that temperatures in the Highlands of Scotland could drop to later in the week. The Met Office also confirmed that the UK is experiencing the longest prolonged cold spell since 1981. of snow fell in Aviemore, Scotland, and of snow was recorded within the Cairngorms National Park. Most of Scotland had further snowfall during the night of 4–5 January.\n\nThe synoptic situation in northern Europe settled into a steady northeast wind, which brought snow showers and belts of snow.\nThe British Army had to help stranded motorists in southern areas.\nThe Met Office confirmed that of snow fell in some parts of southern England. A severe warning issued by the Met Office was in place for every region in the UK. Scottish First Minister Alex Salmond said Scotland was experiencing its worst winter since 1963.\nFurther deaths in Wales, Shetland and Aberdeenshire were recorded. Hawick and most of the southern Scottish Borders was cut off from the rest of the country for two days, and roads in the southeast of England were left with traffic jams and abandoned cars. 8,000 schools were closed.\nThe lowest registered temperature on 7 January in Sweden was in Hemavan.\n\nIn the Netherlands and Belgium, road salt used to keep the roads clear of snow and ice was running out.\n\nNational and secondary schools in Ireland were supposed to open after the Christmas break on this day; however, many were forced to close because of weather conditions. On 8 January, the Minister for Education announced that all schools were to remain closed until at least Thursday, 14 January.\nOn the Luas Green line there were difficulties getting up slopes, such as those between Harcourt and Charlemont and between Beechwood and Cowper. This had caused some delays (especially when salt was scarce for sand tanks on the trams) for Dublin pedestrians. Major reservoirs in County Cork, County Dublin and County Limerick were critically low; in areas such as County Laois and the rural areas of County Cork, bottled water was supplied by the Irish army. This had also been done for the people affected by floods in October and November 2009. The National Grid issued its second alert in three days, asking suppliers to provide more gas and some businesses to switch to other power sources, as gas usage hit record levels.\n\nBBC News reported heavy snowfall as far south as Granada, Spain on 8 January.\nA new record of was also recorded in Dublin, Ireland. Temperatures in County Limerick dropped to . In Kuusamo, Finland, the lowest registered temperature was .\nIn Norway, the temperature dropped to at Tynset.\nIn Germany more than of snow fell on the island of Rügen, and the entire country was blanketed in snow. German officials also acknowledged a shortage of grit, and feared that high winds and drifting snow would lead to road closures.\nIn France, officials closed Autoroute 35 for trucks because of heavy snow, and over 400 truck drivers bound for Germany had to make an unscheduled overnight stop. In the early morning hours of 9 January, the \"autoroute\" was also closed to cars. The storm also grounded 160 flights at the Frankfurt am Main international airport.\nSnow fell heavily in some parts of Spain. Prades (Tarragona, southern Catalonia) sported a 120 cm snow cover after a 30-plus- hour storm, which led to an 18-hour closure of the AP7 motorway at La Jonquera (at the Spanish/French border).\n\nOvernight temperatures of were recorded in Altnaharra in the Scottish Highlands.\n\nDeal and Sandwich in Kent, England, were virtually cut off by snowdrifts on 9 January.\nSnow showers persisted in the east of the UK. In the far south east, snow showers merged into longer and more persistent areas of snow. A low temperature of was recorded at Tulloch Bridge. The football schedule was also heavily affected by the snowfall; all but seven games (two in both the Premier League and League 1 and three in the Championship) were postponed in England, and all but five Scottish Cup games were played in Scotland. Several Guinness Premiership games and horse-racing meets were cancelled as well. Dublin Airport was closed once again. Flights to Kraków in southern Poland were diverted to the airport in Katowice, due to fog which prevented planes from landing. Met Éireann issued a weather warning with up to of snow forecast.\n\nBelgium was covered with another thick layer of snow, in some central provinces (such as Flemish Brabant) as deep as . Since the snow (and possible traffic chaos) had been forecast for several days, this resulted in few people leaving their homes; traffic accidents were minor and few. At Brussels Airport slight delays were inevitable, but mostly the result of airports in neighbouring countries coping with heavier snow. In Denmark, army personnel carriers were once again deployed in the southern part of the country to assist emergency services as drifting continued to cause traffic problems.\n\nA large depression moved into the Western Approaches from the Atlantic on 10 January and began to infiltrate the coldest areas of Britain, bringing a thaw to southwest England. The weather in London cleared, allowing for transport access (particularly by road) across all areas of north and central London. A heavy snowstorm, named \"Daisy\", struck northern Germany on 9 and 10 January. Especially along the coast and on the islands of Usedom, Rügen and Fehmarn, snowdrifts made roads, parts of the coastal autobahn and rail tracks impassable. In northern Mecklenburg-Vorpommern and eastern Schleswig-Holstein secondary roads were closed and trains cancelled, while snowplows and excavators struggled to keep the main routes free. Since the storms were accumulating increasingly large snowbanks, hundreds of cars were stranded on Autobahn 20 near Jarmen during the night, and a train derailed after striking a snowbank near Miltzow. In Denmark, drifting continued to disrupt traffic in the southern part of the country; army personnel carriers were used to assist emergency services. In Spain, a snowstorm swept the country; Madrid had more than 10 hours of snow. Parts of southern Spain, such as Seville, saw their first snow since 1954.\n\nOn 11 January, England and Wales continued to feel the effects of the depression in the Western Approaches. In the Republic of Ireland, the Department of Education ordered all schools to close for the day due to heavy snowfall.\n\nDue to a mix of bitter cold and the milder system trying to push in from the Atlantic, heavy snowfall in the United Kingdom resumed; there were fresh accumulations (on top of existing snow) of up to 15 centimetres (6 inches) on 12 January in Wales and South-west England. Snow later fell in The Midlands and South-east England. In Holmfirth and Barnsley in north England, freezing rain or sleet fell onto deep-frozen roads; this created so much black ice that some people found that the only safe way to move about on roads was by crawling. Hospital accident and emergency units in the Sheffield, Rotherham and Barnsley areas of South Yorkshire reported being inundated by people with fractures and sprains after slipping on what one Council official in Sheffield described as the worst black ice seen in the area in living memory.\n\nMany schools were again closed across England and Wales, and there were many road accidents and closures. The M25 motorway was down to one lane between Leatherhead and Reigate; roads across southern Great Britain were untreated, wreaking havoc on commuters. Gatwick and Birmingham airports were closed, and many flights were delayed at Heathrow. During 13 January the weather system continued north, affecting much of Northern England before reaching Scotland. Parts of northern France were also affected by snowfall. At least 22 people died due to lower temperatures in Romania over a five-day period.\n\nBy the end of January in southern Sweden, temperatures had failed to get above a single time in the whole month in the major cities in the entire Mälar valley, including capital Stockholm as well as major other cities such as Uppsala, Västerås and Örebro. Remarkably enough that even spread further south to inland cities in the deep south such as Växjö and Ljungby. Although temperatures were lower than usual, no actual cold records were broken, but even temperatures in marine climate areas such as in Malmö plummeted below during the coldest nights. All of Sweden's official stations averaged below in terms of daily high, which is highly unusual. The cold in the large cities were relatively moderated, but Örebro some way inland had a mean, which is normal for areas much further north.\n\nArctic air entering the Mediterranean Sea brought snowfalls across Italian western coasts. Snow covered Rome with a couple of inches, with some flurries reaching Naples. An extremely rare snowfall occurred in Cagliari, Sardinia.\n\nAt least 43 people were killed after more than a month's worth of rain fell in southern Madeira in five hours during a strong Atlantic winter storm, producing severe flooding and mudslides. The unusual storm was fed by warmer-than-normal sea surface temperatures in the Northeastern Atlantic related to El Niño, and a slowing of the North Atlantic Gyre.\n\nAt least 62 people were killed (51 in France) and 12 were missing during a European windstorm in Western Europe, affecting mainly Spain, France, Germany and the Benelux region. Numerous levees were breached in western France.\n\nBy the end of the month, the unusual cold had spread from primarily the south to the north of Sweden. Although winters of 1966 and 1985 were much colder, the average low of coastal Luleå still measured at and inland more southern locality Lycksele at . Further south a night low of was measured in Gävle not far north of capital Stockholm. In the south, temperatures occasionally went above freezing, but average highs were firmly below freezing, except in the deep south where it hovered around the freezing point. From the beginning of March, temperatures rose to somewhat normal levels throughout the country.\n\nHeavy snowfall in Spain on 8 March left 220,000 people around the Catalan city of Girona without electricity due to a fault in a high-tension power cable. The adverse weather cut off railway lines and roads, and Spain's border with France at La Junquera was closed. Many schools cancelled classes on both 8 and 9 March. The snowfall was reported to be the region's worst for 25 years, and the heaviest in Barcelona since 1962. The storm also dumped snow on Mallorca and the Balearic Islands, causing snow and highway cancellations. Waves in the Mediterranean reached up to and winds reached . Heavy snow up to fell in southern France (including Provence and the Pyrenees), forcing flight cancellations, airport and motorway closures. Over one metre of snow fell in the mountains, and numerous power outages occurred in Corsica. In Greece dust storms from the Sahara Desert reached the capital, Athens, on strong southerly winds. The eastern end of the storm coincided with the 2010 Elâzığ earthquake.\n\nA snowstorm dumped over 30 centimetres of snow in southern Germany (including Bavaria), causing numerous traffic accidents and over two dozen injuries.\n\nA massive snowstorm travelled north through the UK until it reached Northern Ireland and Scotland, where it stayed for 61 hours. The Met Office issued emergency and extreme-weather warnings for Scotland and Northern Ireland for severe blizzards, very heavy snow, heavy rain, gale-force winds, and severe drifting. On 29 March, snow began to fall heavily over Scotland and Northern Ireland; however, the 30th was far more severe, as gusts up to 80 mph brought trees down. There were accumulations of 30–60 cm of snow in Northern Ireland and Scotland; 3 ft of snow fell on Aviemore.\n\nOn 31 March, a girl was killed in Lanarkshire when a school bus skidded on ice and crashed. Over 70,000 homes in Northern Ireland and Scotland were without power, and newborn lambs died in the extreme weather conditions. Thousands of cars were stranded on roads during the day; 300 cars were stranded in Northern Ireland by 5-foot snowdrifts. Strong winds brought down trees and created waves up to 20 ft. Caravans at Kingshorn were destroyed and a marina in the Lothians was bombarded and demolished by a surge of rain-driven waves. A seal at St. Andrews Sea Life Centre went missing in the strong waves, and a river in Musselburgh overflowed. This snow event was the second-most disruptive of this winter in the UK.\n\nBy 7 January 2010, 22 people died in the UK because of the freezing conditions. The Department of Health estimated that the cold weather could cause up to 40,000 excess deaths in the UK. 139 people died in Poland–most of them reportedly homeless.\n\nThe following airports were at some point closed: London Gatwick Airport, London Heathrow Airport, Birmingham Airport, Cardiff Airport, London Luton Airport, George Best Belfast City Airport, Southampton Airport, Blackpool International Airport, Newcastle Airport, Durham Tees Valley Airport, Exeter International Airport, Plymouth City Airport and London Stansted Airport, Liverpool John Lennon Airport, Manchester Airport, Leeds Bradford Airport, Robin Hood Airport Doncaster Sheffield and Bristol Airport. Some train services ran with revised timetables. Trains in Kent were delayed for up to three and a half hours, with hundreds of travellers left stranded. In late December, Eurostar trains from Paris or Brussels towards St. Pancras station were severely delayed, with delays of up to 16 hours. All Eurostar services were cancelled from 19–21 December; delays and service cancellations continued after that.\n\nBuses on the Isle of Wight, Gloucester (skeleton service was being run in Gloucester during Wednesday 6 January) and across southern Hampshire were suspended on 5 January owing to heavy snowfall, leaving a large number of people stranded. Limited services were back in operation on 7 January in Southampton and Portsmouth on the mainland and between Newport and the other main towns on the Isle of Wight. All services in Gosport, Fareham, Locks Heath, Titchfield, Whiteley and Warsash areas were suspended and remained so for two days because of road conditions. As of 8 January, one service was running between Gosport and Fareham and one between Fareham and Southampton (although this service was unable to serve Locks Heath or Titchfield). The A3 and the A3(M) around Horndean and the Hindhead area and the A1 experienced disruption; many minor roads were closed and only the main motorway and A-road network were passable for much of 5, 6 and 7 January. In North East England the A1(M) and A19 suffered challenging conditions (mainly in the evenings and at night) as a result of temperatures dropping to well below zero Celsius. Bus service between Newcastle and Sunderland experienced some disruption, as local operators suspended services but the Tyne and Wear Metro was an alternative which was only subject to delays due to the temperatures.\n\nLocal and minor roads were severely affected. Dublin Airport closed on Wednesday, 6 January and again on Friday, 8 January. Cork Airport closed on Sunday, 10 January at 6:30 pm and did not reopen until 12:30 pm on Monday, 11 January. Dublin Bus temporarily cancelled all services, and Ireland West Airport Knock also closed.\nAll schools were ordered to close for a day on Monday 11 January, due to the snow. Dublin's tram service Luas was badly affected; most drivers and bus riders were afraid to travel on the ice-covered roads.\n\nLong-distance railway traffic to and from Helsinki halted between 19 and 22 February. Cold weather, blizzards and drifting snow blocked 300 rail switches at the Ilmala rail yard, making traffic impossible. More than half the long-distance trains were cancelled, leaving hundreds of Lapland-bound winter holiday travellers stranded at Helsinki Central Railway station. Trains which were not cancelled ran several hours late. The amount of snow cleared from Helsinki streets and transferred to snow collection sites was 210,000 truckloads.\n\nRail transport in Norway and Sweden experienced serious setbacks throughout this Winter.\n\nHeavy snowfall in the Catalonia region during March 2010 led to cancellation of Ryanair flights to and from Girona Airport on 9 March.\n\nWinter vegetable crops such as cauliflower and potatoes were threatened by the icy temperatures, and harvesting of carrots, turnips, sugar beet and parsnips was delayed since the fields are frozen. The harsh winter was estimated to cost the economy of the United Kingdom £700 million. A new British record for natural gas consumption reached on 7 January, according to the National Grid. Approximately 12,000 schools were closed across the United Kingdom. A drop in about 30% of UK retail sales was estimated, with uneven consequences; pubs, out-of-town shopping centres and department stores were worst affected. Local-store sales and the sale of sledges, cat litter and contraceptives increased. The Scottish Highlands saw a boost to tourism and winter sports. The Cairngorms, near Aviemore, received its best business since the 1970s as thousands of tourists visited the area.\n\nThe snowfall in January postponed football games in the English Football League, Premier League, Football League Cup and the FA Cup. There were further postponements in Scotland (with 15 football matches postponed on 2 January), and in Serie A, Serie B, Lega Pro Prima Divisione, Lega Pro Seconda Divisione and Serie D Italian football matches. Football in Northern Ireland was also affected. In rugby union, there were cancellations in the English Premiership, Celtic League, the All-Ireland League, the Top 14, a Heineken Cup fixture in Brussels scheduled for 19 December, and a Heineken Cup fixture in Newport. Other affected sports included Gaelic football's O'Byrne Cup, Dr. McKenna Cup, McGrath Cup and FBD League games. The field hockey Irish Junior Cup also saw postponements.\n\n"}
{"id": "7205947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7205947", "title": "Young stellar object", "text": "Young stellar object\n\nYoung stellar object (YSO) denotes a star in its early stage of evolution. This class consists of two groups of objects: protostars and pre-main-sequence stars.\n\nA star forms by accumulation of material that falls in to a protostar from a circumstellar disk or envelope. Material in the disk is cooler than the surface of the protostar, so it radiates at longer wavelengths of light producing excess infrared emission. As material in the disk is depleted, the infrared excess decreases. Thus, YSOs are usually classified into evolutionary stages based on the slope of their spectral energy distribution in the mid-infrared, using a scheme introduced by Lada (1987). He proposed three classes (I, II and III), based on the values of intervals of spectral index formula_1:\n\nformula_2.\n\nHere formula_3 is wavelength, and formula_4 is flux density.\n\nThe formula_1 is calculated in the wavelength interval of 2.2–20 formula_6 (near- and mid-infrared region). Andre \"et al.\" (1993) discovered a class 0: objects with strong submillimeter emission, but very faint at formula_7. Greene \"et al.\" (1994) added a fifth class of \"flat spectrum\" sources.\n\n\nThis classification schema roughly reflects evolutionary sequence. It is believed that most deeply embedded Class 0 sources evolve towards Class I stage, dissipating their circumstellar envelopes. Eventually they become optically visible on the stellar birthline as pre-main-sequence stars.\n\nClass II objects have circumstellar disks and correspond roughly to classical T Tauri stars, while Class III stars have lost their disks and correspond approximately to weak-line T Tauri stars. An intermediate stage where disks can only be detected at longer wavelengths (e.g., at formula_13) are known as transition-disk objects.\n\nYSOs are also associated with early star evolution phenomena: jets and bipolar outflows, masers, Herbig–Haro objects, and protoplanetary disks (circumstellar disks or proplyds).\n\nThese stars may be differentiated by mass: Massive YSOs, intermediate-mass YSOs, and brown dwarfs.\n\n"}
{"id": "54247342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54247342", "title": "Zel'dovich mechanism", "text": "Zel'dovich mechanism\n\nZel'dovich mechanism is a chemical mechanism that describes the oxidation of nitrogen and NO formation, first proposed by the Russian scientists Yakov Borisovich Zel'dovich, David A. Frank-Kamenetskii and P. Ya. Sadovnikov in 1947. The reaction mechanisms read as\n\nwhere formula_1 and formula_2 are the reaction rate constants in Arrhenius law. The overall global reaction is given by\n\nThe overall reaction rate is mostly governed by the first reaction (i.e., rate-determining reaction), since the second reaction is much faster than the first reaction and occurs immediately following the first reaction. At fuel-rich conditions, due to lack of oxygen, reaction 2 becomes weak, hence, a third reaction is included in the mechanism, also known as extended Zel'dovich mechanism (with all three reactions),\n\nThe forward rate constants of the reactions are given by\nwhere the pre-exponential factor is measured in units of cm, mol, s and K, temperature in kelvins, and the activation energy in cal/mol; \"R\" is the universal gas constant.\n\nThe rate of NO concentration is given by\n"}
