{"id": "15412003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15412003", "title": "BeHealth", "text": "BeHealth\n\nBeHealth is a Belgian eHealth digital platform which provides digital access to all health information and applications through one portal site, on behalf of both healthcare providers and patients. BeHealth has been created on 23 December 2004. It first aim is to interconnect multiple applications from a number of social security actors, but with the goal to provide broader services over time.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21545039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21545039", "title": "Bidet shower", "text": "Bidet shower\n\nA bidet shower (bum gun, bidet spray, bidet sprayer, or health faucet), is a hand-held triggered nozzle that is placed near the toilet and delivers a spray of water used for anal cleansing and cleaning of the genitals after using the toilet for defecation and urination. The device is similar to that on a kitchen sink sprayer.\n\nThe health faucet is a source of water for people who prefer using water rather than other methods of cleansing after defecation or urination. The shower is an alternative for the traditional sources of water for this action, such as the bidet, copper pot or bucket and mug, being more hygienic and compact. There is no contact between the spray of water and the used water drainage.\n\nThe user typically grasps the faucet in the right hand and uses the thumb or forefinger (depending on the trigger location) to aim a spray of water at the anus or genitals to assist cleansing after using the toilet.\n\nThe bidet shower is common in all predominantly Islamic countries and in most parts of Asia where water is considered essential for anal cleansing. This includes Egypt, Nepal, Pakistan (called 'Muslim shower'), China, Iran, India, Maldives, Bangladesh, Turkey, United Arab Emirates, Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, Sri Lanka, Thailand, Singapore, Vietnam and Cambodia. In those countries it is commonly installed in Western-style (sitting) toilet installations. In Thailand, it is common in both Western-style toilets and squat toilet installations. The bidet shower is similar in intent, if not method of use, to the Japanese washlet-style toilet seats, or so-called \"electronic bidets\".\n\nBidet showers are used by Muslims in Muslim countries and all parts of the Arab world as well as in Asia in order to cleanse themselves with water after using the toilet. Here, water is commonly used instead of, or together with, toilet paper for cleaning after defecation.\n\nIn Europe, the bidet shower is used for example in Finland and Estonia. Bidets are more common bathroom fixtures in many southern European countries.\n\n"}
{"id": "31170355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31170355", "title": "C-terminal telopeptide", "text": "C-terminal telopeptide\n\nIn bone physiology, the C-terminal telopeptide (or more formally, carboxy-terminal collagen crosslinks, and known by the acronym CTX) is a telopeptide that can be used as a biomarker in the serum to measure the rate of bone turnover. It can be useful in assisting clinicians to determine a patient's nonsurgical treatment response as well as evaluate a patient's risk of developing complications during healing following surgical intervention. The test used to detect the CTX marker is called the Serum CrossLaps, and it is more specific to bone resorption than any other test currently available.\n\nIn the early 2000s, a link between bisphosphonate use and impaired bone physiology was noted. The strong inhibition of osteoclast function precipitated by bisphosphonate therapy can lead to inhibition of normal bone turnover, leading to impaired wound healing following trauma (such as dental surgery) or even spontaneous non-healing bone exposure. Because bisphosphonates are preferentially deposited in bone with high turnover rates, it is possible that the levels of bisphosphonate within the jaw bones are selectively elevated.\n\nWith the advent of implant dentistry, more dental patients are undergoing therapies in the oral cavity that involve bone healing, such as surgical implant placement and bone grafting procedures. In order to evaluate the risk of osteonecrosis for a patient taking bisphosphonates, use of the CTX biomarker was introduced in 2000 by Rosen.\n\nAlthough a number of surrogate biomarkers exist for measuring the metabolic products of bone resorption, the serum CTX marker was chosen because it is both highly correlated to bone turnover rate and already available for detection in a laboratory test carried out by a major lab testing corporation.\n\nThe CTX test measures for the presence and concentration of a crosslink peptide sequence of type I collagen, found, among other tissues, in bone. This specific peptide sequence relates to bone turnover because it is the portion that is cleaved by osteoclasts during bone resorption, and its serum levels are therefore proportional to osteoclastic activity at the time the blood sample is drawn. Serum levels in healthy patients not taking bisphosphonates tends to hover above 300 pg/mL.\n\nPatients who are placed on a 6-month drug holiday exhibit marked improvements in their serum CTX values; in one study, patients showed an improvement of 155.3 pg/mL over 6 months or a rate of 25.9 pg/mL each month.\n\nInitially, urinary CTX levels were sought, but this proved to offer no greater value than urinary NTX values—both tests suffered from large spontaneous fluctuations unrelated to therapy or intervention, and were therefore largely unreliable. In contrast, the monoclonal antibody test for detecting serum CTX levels features minimal spontaneous disruption yet remarkable change to antiresorptive therapy, making the serum CTX assay both highly sensitive and specific.\n\nN-terminal telopeptide\n"}
{"id": "5058783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5058783", "title": "Death in Singapore", "text": "Death in Singapore\n\nDeaths in Singapore offset the population increase from live births. In 2007, 17,140 people in Singapore died from various causes. The death rate was 4.5 deaths per 1,000 of the population. There are strict regulations surrounding death and treatment of the body after death.\n\nUnder section 2A of the Interpretation Act, a person is considered as having died when there is either irreversible cessation of circulation of blood and respiration, or total and irreversible cessation of all functions of the brain. Irreversible cessation of the blood circulation and respiration is determined according to ordinary standards of current medical practice, while total and irreversible cessation of all brain functions is made in accordance with the following criteria:\n\n\nIn addition, the Interpretation Act sets out other safeguards for the determination of death:\n\n\n\nWhen the question of whether a person is alive or dead arises, and it is shown that he was alive within 30 years, the burden of proving that he or she is dead lies on the person who affirms it. However, if it is proved that he or she has not been heard of for seven years by those who would naturally have heard of the person if he or she had been alive, the burden of proving that the person is alive shifts to the person who affirms this.\n\nAny married person who alleges that reasonable grounds exist for supposing that the other party to the marriage is dead may apply to court to have it presumed that the other party is dead and to have the marriage dissolved. If the court is satisfied that such reasonable grounds exist, it may make an interim judgment of presumption of death and of divorce. In such proceedings, the fact that for seven years or more the other party to the marriage has been continually absent from the applicant, and the applicant has no reason to believe that the other party has been living within that time, is evidence that the missing person is dead until the contrary is proved.\n\nAs of 2017, the top 10 causes of death in Singapore were those set out in the table below:\n\nCapital punishment is legal in Singapore. The number of judicial executions has fluctuated widely depending on crime rates; at its highest point, according to unofficial statistics compiled by Amnesty International, about 408 people were hanged between 1991 and 2003; at its lowest point in 2010, none were executed. Between 2004 and 2011, the number of executions varied between none and 10. Hanging, which is used for all executions and are carried out in Changi Prison on Fridays at dawn, are by the long drop method, which severs the spinal cord.\n\nSuicide is a significant non-medical cause of death in Singapore. Although attempted suicide is an offence punishable with jail under section 309 of the Penal Code, Singapore still sees many cases of suicide each year. Between 2000 and 2004, 1,700 people killed themselves, and in 2007 suicides amounted to about 2.2% of all deaths. For every successful suicide attempt, there were seven unsuccessful ones.\n\nIt was reported in 2006 that suicide was one of the top causes of death of Singapore youths. In 2001, five children younger than 15 years took their lives, and 37 people between the ages of 15 and 25 did so. The coroner's report of a junior college student who killed himself because he believed his penis was too small was reported in the international media. The pressure exerted by parents on their children to produce good academic results has also been a contributing factor in some suicides.\n\nRecent notable examples of young adults that commit suicide include Cpt (Dr) Allan Ooi Seng Teik, who ended his life on 3 March 2009 presumably due to disenchantment working with the Singapore Armed Forces.\n\nWhen a person dies, a doctor will certify the cause of death if it is known and due to natural causes. He or she will then fill up a certificate of cause of death (CCOD) which will be given to the family of the deceased. If the doctor is unable to determine the cause of death, or the death is due to non-natural causes, the Criminal Procedure Code requires him to refer the case to the police. The police will provide a hearse to send the body to the Centre for Forensic Medicine (CFM) Mortuary at Block 9 of the Singapore General Hospital, which will then inform the family when to visit the mortuary.\n\nAt the CFM Mortuary, the family will view and identify the body of the deceased in the presence of a coroner, who reviews the case and determines if an autopsy is required. The family will be informed of the coroner's decision and the time to claim the body for the funeral. If an autopsy is conducted and reveals that the death is unnatural, the police will conduct further investigations into the cause of death with the family's assistance. Once the investigations are complete, the family will be told to attend a coroner's inquiry at the Subordinate Courts. Only after that will they be able to claim the body.\n\nAfter the family obtains the CCOD, they usually engage a funeral director (also known as an undertaker) who collects the body, embalms it if necessary, and delivers it to the wake. In addition, they have to decide whether the body is to be cremated or buried, and register the death. The funeral director also helps to make arrangements for the wake and funeral, according to the religious beliefs and wishes of the family.\n\nWhen a person dies in a house, the death must be notified to the authorities within 24 hours by the occupier of the house in which to his or her knowledge the death took place, the relatives of the deceased present at his or her death or in attendance during the last illness of the deceased, or each person present at the death. If those persons fail to do so, another inmate of the house or the person causing the body of the deceased person to be buried.\n\nWhen a person dies in a place which is not a house, or a dead body is found elsewhere than in a house, every relative of the deceased person having knowledge of any particulars required to be registered concerning the death, and every person present at the death, and every person taking charge of the body, and, if the death occurs in a ship or vessel the master or other person having charge of the ship or vessel, and the person causing the body to be buried must, within 24 hours after the death or finding of the body, give to the authorities such information that the informant has concerning the death that is required to be registered.\n\nThe Choa Chu Kang Cemetery Complex is the only cemetery in Singapore still accepting burials. Others, such as Bidadari Cemetery, have made way for redevelopment. Burials cost up to S$420 for children and $940 for adults. The complex is divided into cemeteries according to religion, and includes the Parsi, Jewish and Christian cemeteries.\n\nOn 1 November 1998, the NEA implemented a policy to limit the burial period of all graves to 15 years, due to a shortage of space in the cemeteries. After being buried for 15 years, graves are exhumed and the remains removed. If the religion of the deceased permits cremation, the exhumed remains are cremated and stored in government columbaria niches; otherwise, the remains are re-buried in smaller individual plots.\n\nSea burial is being implemented at Tanah Merah by the end of 2019.\n\nIn the days of British rule, the number of Chinese burial grounds in Singapore increased very rapidly and the colonial government had little power to control burial spaces because it did not possess sanctions of sufficient strength. Clan associations met all the physical and social needs of the Chinese majority, and the result was the creation of segmented Chinese immigrant communities separated by kinship ties and operating independently of the state, each conducting their own death rites and running their own cemeteries. The local authorities began to view these cemeteries as hazardous sources of disease-causing vectors such as mosquitoes, as well as a form of land waste. There were urgent demands on space in land-scarce Singapore in the name of national development. In the words of E. W. Barker, then the minister for law, environment, science and technology, \"The needs of Singapore's young population must require the use of sterilised land, for the economic and social good of all citizens of Singapore.\"\n\nIn the 1965 Master Plan, which was designed to guide land-use development in Singapore, cemeteries were identified as land \"considered available for development\", and cremation was mooted as a viable option to deal with the exhumed bodies from these burial grounds, and as a way to dispose of people who died. To encourage the population to adopt this relatively new way of treating the dead, the state employed the help of \"funerary middlemen\" who could erode the distrust of cremation because they were respected for their knowledge of death rites and disposal. In addition, the rallying cries of national development, the common good, and the country's future were used to encourage the populace to take up the idea of cremation and to abandon their insistence of traditional burial grounds.\n\nIn 1972, the state made it clear that it would close all cemeteries near and around the city area to \"conserve land\". State power over cemeteries was considerably strengthened by an alteration in the law allowing the public commissioner to \"close cemeteries without assigning reasons for doing so\". As an alternative means of managing the disposal of the dead, the state offered burial space at a state-owned public cemetery complex at Choa Chu Kang, although it made it clear that it considered cremation as the only viable long-term option. As various academics have pointed out, the clearance of ethnic burial grounds served more than a practical purpose as it signified the transferring of power from clan- and ethnic-based associations, which had previously run these burial grounds, to state organizations.\n\nThe earliest government crematorium, situated at Mount Vernon, began operations in 1962 with only one funeral service hall and about four cremations a week. By 1995, it had three service halls and was averaging 21 cremations a day, with operations beginning every day at 9:00 am with cremations scheduled at 45-minute intervals until about 6:00 or 7:00 pm. The site includes a columbarium built in several phases, comprising niches arranged in numbered blocks which either feature Chinese-style green roofs, or housed within a nine-storey pagoda-style building. There also exists a two-storey \"church-style\" building.\n\nTowards the end of the 1970s, the Mount Vernon complex, which was initially intended for the storage of ashes from recent deaths, could no longer cope with the scale of exhumation projects fuelling the demand for columbarium niches. Another crematorium and columbarium complex was built at Mandai, and this commenced operations in 1982, equipped with eight small and four medium-sized cremators and a total of 64,370 niches for the storage of cremated remains. Chinese voluntary associations such as Pek San Theng were allowed to build columbaria to house the remains of those exhumed from clan-owned cemeteries, and temples and churches were allowed to accommodate cremated remains. Mount Vernon Crematorium ceased operations on 30 June 2004.\n\nAfter a body is cremated, the family of the deceased can store the ashes at home or in a columbarium, or scatter them in the sea about south of Pulau Semakau. There are three crematoria in Singapore. The Mandai Crematorium, the only government facility, is now operated by the National Environment Agency. The other two crematoria are privately operated; one is in the Kong Meng San Phor Kark See Monastery at Bright Hill Drive, Bishan, and the other is in Tse Toh Aum Temple at Sin Ming Drive.\n\nThere are three government columbaria and 57 private ones. The government-operated columbaria are at Mandai, Yishun and Choa Chu Kang. (A fourth government columbarium at Mount Vernon is due to close at an unspecified date due to redevelopment of its surrounding area into a public housing estate.) Private columbaria are operated by the Kong Meng San Phor Kark See Monastery, the Roman Catholic Church of Saint Mary of the Angels in Bukit Batok, and the Singapore Soka Association, among others. As with crematoria, there is a significant price difference between niches in private and government columbaria. A standard niche in any government columbarium costs less than $900, but one at the Kong Meng San monastery costs more than $15,000. The government columbaria allocate niches sequentially, and charge an extra $250 for any location change request; for an extra price, the private columbaria allow families to choose niche locations subject to availability, and even to pre-book niches before death.\n\nThere has been an increase in the number of Singaporeans pre-booking niches at private crematoria, even though some people consider talking about death and pre-booking a final resting place inauspicious. Reasons for pre-booking include wanting one's ashes to be close to those of loved ones, and hedging against higher prices for niches in future. The bodies of foreigners (regardless of where they die) can be cremated in Singapore, but their ashes have to be placed in private columbaria. There are also irregular instances of Singaporeans dying overseas, such as the 2015 accident surrounding Huang Lin Davina, a high-profile demise of a Singaporean abroad.\n\nIt has been observed that the architecture of government columbaria reflects the outlook of the Singaporean nation. The early columbaria were simple, with few aesthetic ornaments, just like early Singaporean housing flats. The later columbaria have more modern designs, with well-designed landscaped environments, and looking similar to contemporary HDB (Housing and Development Board) flats. These columbaria include the Chua Chu Kang Columbarium and the Mandai Columbarium, which was renovated and expanded in 2004 to accommodate approximately another 60,000 niches. The designs are more elaborate, and are often reminiscent of other structures people often encounter in everyday life. Comparisons have been drawn between the architecture of these columbaria and that of schools and condominiums, and hypotheses have been made that such are deliberate efforts to eliminate the sense of fear and dread traditionally associated with landscapes of death.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49251816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49251816", "title": "Dewshine", "text": "Dewshine\n\nDewshine is a term coined for the non-commercial mixture of the beverage Mountain Dew with alcohol, notably methanol. Methanol is toxic to humans, and in January 2016 the mixture resulted in the reported deaths of two Tennessee high school students, Logan Stephenson and J. D. Byram. The methanol in this case was believed to come from racing fuel.\n\n"}
{"id": "9427669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9427669", "title": "Dilution assay", "text": "Dilution assay\n\nThe term dilution assay is generally used to designate a special type of bioassay in which one or more preparations (e.g. a drug) are administered to experimental units at different dose levels inducing a measurable biological response. The dose levels are prepared by dilution in a diluent that is inert in respect of the response. The experimental units can for example be cell-cultures, tissues, organs or living animals. The biological response may be quantal (e.g. positive/negative) or quantitative (e.g. growth). The goal is to relate the response to the dose, usually by interpolation techniques, and in many cases to express the potency/activity of the test preparation(s) relative to a standard of known potency/activity.\n\nDilution assays can be direct or indirect. In a direct dilution assay the amount of dose needed to produce a specific (fixed) response is measured, so that the dose is a stochastic variable defining the tolerance distribution. Conversely, in an indirect dilution assay the dose levels are administered at fixed dose levels, so that the response is a stochastic variable.\n\nFor a mathematical definition of a dilution assay an observation space formula_1 is defined and a function formula_2 so that the responses formula_3 are mapped to the set of real numbers. It is now assumed that a function formula_4 exists which relates the dose formula_5 to the response\nin which formula_7 is an error term with expectation 0. formula_4 is usually assumed to be continuous and monotone. In situations where a standard preparation is included it is furthermore assumed that the test preparation formula_9 behaves like a dilution (or concentration) of the standard formula_10\nwhere formula_13 is the relative potency of formula_9. This is the fundamental assumption of similarity of dose-response curves which is necessary for a meaningful and unambiguous definition of the relative potency. In many cases it is convenient to apply a power transformation formula_15 with formula_16 or a logarithmic transformation formula_17. The latter can be shown to be a limit case of formula_18 so if formula_19 is written for the log transformation the above equation can be redefined as\n\nEstimates formula_22 of formula_4 are usually restricted to be member of a well-defined parametric family of functions, for example the family of linear functions characterized by an intercept and a slope. Statistical techniques such as optimization by Maximum Likelihood can be used to calculate estimates of the parameters. Of notable importance in this respect is the theory of Generalized Linear Models with which a wide range of dilution assays can be modelled. Estimates of formula_4 may describe formula_4 satisfactorily over the range of doses tested, but they do not necessarily have to describe formula_4 beyond that range. However, this does not mean that dissimilar curves can be restricted to an interval where they happen to be similar.\n\nIn practice, formula_4 itself is rarely of interest. More of interest is an estimate of formula_28 or an estimate of the dose that induces a specific response. These estimates involve taking ratios of statistically dependent parameter estimates. Fieller's theorem can be used to compute confidence intervals of these ratios.\n\nSome special cases deserve particular mention because of their widespread use: If formula_4 is linear and formula_16 this is known as a slope-ratio model. If formula_4 is linear and formula_19 this is known as a parallel line model. Another commonly applied model is the probit model where formula_4 is the cumulative normal distribution function, formula_19 and formula_7 follows a binomial distribution.\n\nAn antibiotic standard (shown in red) and test preparation (shown in blue) are applied at three dose levels to sensitive microorganisms on a layer of agar in petri dishes. The stronger the dose the larger the zone of inhibition of growth of the microorganisms. The biological response formula_36 is in this case the zone of inhibition and the diameter of this zone formula_37 can be used as the measurable response. The doses formula_12 are transformed to logarithms formula_17 and the method of least squares is used to fit two parallel lines to the data. The horizontal distance formula_40 between the two lines (shown in green) serves as an estimate of the potency formula_28 of the test preparation relative to the standard.\n\nThe major statistical software packages do not cover dilution assays although a statistician should not have difficulties to write suitable scripts or macros to that end. Several special purpose software packages for dilution assays exist.\n\n\nSoftware for dilution assays:\n"}
{"id": "26998979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26998979", "title": "Embedded emissions", "text": "Embedded emissions\n\nOne way of attributing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions is to measure the embedded emissions of goods that are being consumed (also referred to as \"embodied emissions\"). This is different from the question of to what extent the policies of one country to reduce emissions affect emissions in other countries (the \"spillover effect\" and \"carbon leakage\" of an emissions reduction policy). The UNFCCC measures emissions according to production, rather than consumption (UK Parliament, 2010). Consequently, embedded emissions on imported goods are attributed to the exporting, rather than the importing, country. The question of whether to measure emissions on production instead of consumption is partly an issue of equity, i.e., who is responsible for emissions (Toth \"et al\"., 2001, p. 670).\n\nThe 37 Kyoto Protocol Parties, listed in Annex B of the treaty, have agreed to legally binding emission reduction commitments. Under the UNFCCC accounting of emissions, their emission reduction commitments do not include emissions attributable to their imports. In a briefing note, Wang and Watson (2007) asked the question, \"who owns China's carbon emissions?\" In their study, they suggested that nearly a quarter of China's CO emissions might be a result of its production of goods for export, primarily to the USA but also to Europe. Based on this, they suggested that international negotiations based on within country emissions (i.e., emissions measured by production) may be \"[missing] the point.\"\n\nRecent research confirms that, in 2004, 23% of global emissions were embedded in goods traded internationally, mostly flowing from China and other developing countries to the U.S., Europe and Japan. Research by the Carbon Trust in 2011 revealed that approximately 25% of all emissions from human activities 'flow' (i.e. are imported or exported) from one country to another. The flow of carbon was found to be roughly 50% emissions associated with trade in commodities such as steel, cement, and chemicals, and 50% in semi-finished/finished products such as motor vehicles, clothing or industrial machinery and equipment.\n"}
{"id": "11417277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11417277", "title": "Eurotransplant", "text": "Eurotransplant\n\nThe Eurotransplant International Foundation, commonly known simply as Eurotransplant, is an international non-profit organization responsible for encouraging and coordinating organ transplants in Austria, Belgium, Croatia, Germany, Hungary, Luxembourg, Netherlands, and Slovenia. The organization was created by Jon J. van Rood in 1967 and legally founded on 12 May 1969. The headquarters are located in Leiden, Netherlands.\n\nAll transplant clinics, tissue-typing laboratories, and hospitals in the member countries where organ donations take place are included in the exchange. Eurotransplant helps coordinate work in these institutions, with the goal of efficiently allocating and distributing donated organs. The group also promotes research into transplantation and seeks to raise public awareness of the benefits of donation.\n\nComparable institutions are Scandiatransplant in Iceland, Norway, Finland, Denmark, and Sweden; as well as Balttransplant in Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania.\n"}
{"id": "53148992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53148992", "title": "Fear of crossing streets", "text": "Fear of crossing streets\n\nThe fear of crossing streets, or its terms dromophobia and agyrophobia, is a specific phobia that affects a person's ability to cross a street or roadway, especially designated crosswalks where many cars or vehicles may be present. The term dromophobia comes from the Greek \"dromos\", meaning racetrack.\n\nDromophobia may result from experiencing a road accident and thus may be classified as a subtype of panic disorder with agoraphobia (PDA). As such, dromophobia, especially fear of crossing streets alone may be a component of accident-related posttraumatic stress disorder, as a reaction to a situation reminding the past traumatic event. Sometimes this behavior may be misinterpreted during PTSD symptom assessment as a caution (i.e., a normal learning behavior) rather than fear (which is an abnormal avoidant behavior). \n\nFear of crossing streets may also result from an anticipatory anxiety related to person's limited mobility due to stiff person syndrome (SPS). In fact a person with SPS crossing a street may develop attacks of increasing stiffness or spasms.\n\nDromophobia may be present in people, especially children, with autism, since crossing a road involves complex skills, such as judging the speed of an approaching car.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39028704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39028704", "title": "Food Act 1981", "text": "Food Act 1981\n\nThe Food Act 1981 is a current Act of Parliament in New Zealand. It is administered by the Ministry for Primary Industries.\n\nThe Food Act 2014 will replace the Food Act progressively over three years from when it comes into force in 2016.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2064628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2064628", "title": "Georges Hébert", "text": "Georges Hébert\n\nGeorges Hébert (27 April 1875 – 2 August 1957) was a pioneering physical educator in the French military who developed a system of physical education and training known as \"la méthode naturelle\" (\"Natural Method\"), which combined the training of a wide variety of physical capacities with the training of courage and morality.\n\nHébert was born in Paris. While an officer in the French Navy prior to the First World War, Hébert was stationed in the town of St. Pierre, on the island of Martinique in the Caribbean Sea. In 1902 the town fell victim to a catastrophic volcanic eruption.\n\nHébert coordinated the escape and rescue of some seven hundred people from this disaster. This experience had a profound effect on him, and reinforced his belief that athletic skill must be combined with courage and altruism. He eventually developed this ethos into his personal motto, \"Être fort pour être utile\" (\"Being strong to be useful\").\n\nHébert had travelled extensively throughout the world and was impressed by the physical development and movement skills of indigenous peoples in Africa and elsewhere:\n\nTheir bodies were splendid, flexible, nimble, skillful, enduring, resistant and yet they had no other tutor in gymnastics but their lives in nature.\n\nUpon his return to France, Hébert became a physical instructor for the French marines in Lorient, where he began to define the principles of his own system of physical education and to create apparatus and exercises to teach his \"Natural Method\".\n\nBeyond his observations of the natural movements of indigenous people, Hébert's method is a synthesis of various influences, including but not limited to:\n\n\nHebert's system rejected remedial gymnastics and the popular Swedish Method of physical culture, which seemed to him unable to develop the human body harmoniously and especially unable to prepare his students with the practical and moral demands of life.\n\nIn the same way, Hébert believed, by concentrating on competition and performance, competitive sport diverted physical education both from its physiological ends and its ability to foster sound moral values.\n\nFor Georges Hébert, influenced by the teachings of philosopher and educationalist Jean-Jacques Rousseau, only the observation of nature could lead people to the true methods of physical development. He wrote:\nThe final goal of physical education is to make strong beings. In the purely physical sense, the Natural Method promotes the qualities of organic resistance, muscularity and speed, towards being able to walk, run, jump, move on all fours, to climb, to keep balance, to throw, lift, defend yourself and to swim.\nIn the \"virile\" or energetic sense, the system consists in having sufficient energy, willpower, courage, coolness, and firmness.\nIn the moral sense, education, by elevating the emotions, directs or maintains the moral drive in a useful and beneficial way.\nThe true Natural Method, in its broadest sense, must be considered as the result of these three particular forces; it is a physical, virile and moral synthesis. It resides not only in the muscles and the breath, but above all in the \"energy\" which is used, the will which directs it and the feeling which guides it.\n\nHébert defined the guiding principles and fundamental rules of the Natural Method as:\nWith regard to the development of virile qualities, this is obtained by the execution of certain difficult or dangerous exercises requiring the development of these various qualities, for example while seeking to control the fear of falling, of jumping, of rising, of plunging, of walking on an unstable surface, etc.\n\nGeorges Hébert's teaching continued to expand between and during the two wars, becoming the standard system of French military physical education.\n\nHe was also an early advocate of the benefits of exercise for women. In his work \"Muscle and Plastic Beauty\", which appeared in 1921, Hébert criticized not only the fashion of corsetry but also the physical inactivity imposed upon women by contemporary European society. By following the natural method of synthesized physical, energetic and moral development, he wrote, women could develop self-confidence, will-power and athletic ability just as well as their male counterparts.\n\nHébert wrote:\nA (Natural Method) session is composed of exercises belonging to the ten fundamental groups: walking, running, jumping, quadrupedal movement, climbing, equilibrium (balancing), throwing, lifting, defending and swimming.\nA training session consists, then, of exercises in an outdoor environment, perhaps a few hundred meters to several kilometers, during which, one walks, one runs, one jumps, one progresses quadrupedally, one climbs, one walks in unstable balance, one raises and one carries, one throws, one fights and one swims.\n\nThis course can be carried out in two ways:\n\nAll of the exercises can be carried out while progressing through this environment. A session can last from 20 to 60 minutes.\n\nThus, Hébert was among the earliest proponents of \"le parcours\", or obstacle course, form of physical training, which is now standard in the military and has led to the development of civilian fitness trails and confidence courses. In fact, woodland challenge courses comprising balance beams, ladders, rope swings and so-on are often still described as \"Hebertism\" or \"Hebertisme\" courses both in Europe and in North America. It may even be possible to trace modern adventure playground equipment back to Hébert's original designs in the early 1900s.\n\nAs a former sailor, Hébert may have patterned some of his \"stations\" on the obstacles that are found on the deck of a ship; he was also a strong proponent of \"natural\" or spontaneous training in non-designed environments.\n\nThe year 1955 marked the 50th birthday of the Natural Method, and Hébert was named Commander of the Legion of Honor by the French government in recognition of his many services to his country. In 1957, George Hébert, by then suffering from general paralysis, cultivated the admiration of his entourage by relearning how to walk, speak and write. He died on August 2 of that year in Tourgéville, Calvados, France.\n\nThere are still schools and gymnasia throughout Europe that are promoting the Natural Method of physical training, some maintaining their own elaborate \"parcours\" in natural surroundings.\n\nMost recently, Hébert's teachings have been an important influence on the emergence of Parkour as a training discipline in its own right. Also, in the first decade of the 21st century, the French American physical education instructor Erwan Le Corre took inspiration from Hébert's \"méthode naturelle\" (\"natural method\") and has expanded on the training to form a system of natural movement which he has named \"MovNat\".\n\n\nAngel, Julie (2016). \"Breaking the Jump: The Secret Story of Parkour's High-flying Rebellion\". Arum Press. \n\n\nPDF-file: Guide pratique d'éducation physique, 2nd edition (1912) (Hébert's \"Practical Guide to Physical Education,\" 2nd edition. English translation by Pilou and Gregg.) \n"}
{"id": "31404955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31404955", "title": "Ghana Health Service", "text": "Ghana Health Service\n\nThe Ghana Health Service (GHS) is a Ghanaian government body established in 1996 as part of the Health Sector Reform of Ghana. The Health Service is under the Ministry of Health. The Health service primarily administrates the health services provided by the government and in implementing government policies on healthcare.\n\nThe Ghana Health Service (GHS) is a Public Service body established under Act 525 of 1996 as required by the 1992 constitution. It is an autonomous Executive Agency responsible for implementation of national policies under the control of the Ghana Minister for Health through its governing Council - the Ghana Health Service Council.\n\nThe GHS continue to receive public funds and thus remain within the public sector. However, its employees are no longer part of the civil service, and GHS managers are no longer required to follow all civil service rules and procedures. The independence of the GHS is designed primarily to ensure that staffs have a greater degree of managerial flexibility to carry out their responsibilities then would be possible if they remained wholly within the civil service.\n\nGhana Health Service does not include Teaching Hospitals, Private and Mission Hospitals. The establishment of the Ghana Health Service was an essential part of the key strategies identified in the Ghana Health Sector Reform process, as outlined in the Medium Term Health Strategy (MTHS), which were necessary steps in establishing a more equitable, efficient, accessible and responsive health care system.\n\nThe reforms build on the reorganization of the MOH that began in 1993, was explicitly designed to set the scene for the establishment of the Ghana Health Service. The reforms also provide a sound organizational framework for the growing degree of managerial responsibility that has already been delegated to districts and hospitals. Themes that were central to the reorganization of 1993 remain important today for the Ghana Health Service: careful stewardship of resources, clear lines of responsibility and control, decentralization, and accountability for performance rather than inputs.\n\nGHS to provide and prudently manage comprehensive and accessible health service with special emphasis on primary health care at Ghana regional, district and sub-district levels in accordance with approved national policies. The objects of the Service are to:\n\n\nFor the purposes of achieving its objectives the GHS performs the following functions amongst others:\n\nProvide comprehensive health services at all levels in Ghana directly and by contracting out to other Ghana agencies. As part of this function, the GHS is:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6807435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6807435", "title": "Health and Community Services Western Region", "text": "Health and Community Services Western Region\n\nHealth and Community Services Western Region is the governing body for healthcare regulation in an area of the Canadian province of Newfoundland and Labrador. The area region includes the communities of:\n\n"}
{"id": "35975536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35975536", "title": "Health care system of the elderly in Germany", "text": "Health care system of the elderly in Germany\n\nThe elderly population is one of the most vulnerable populations in the world of health care, mainly because of their susceptibility to contracting disease, limited access to health care insurance, limited or non-existent access to long-term care insurance, and/or reduced quality of life. In Germany, the majority of the population, including the elderly is funded by a public health care insurance system. Only employees who have an income above a cutoff point and certain other groups have the option of purchasing private insurance. (The option of not having any insurance coverage was dropped in 2009.) For the most part, Germany raises money for this health system through statutory welfare contributions.\n\nAs a result of longevity and low fertility rates, the elderly population (age 75 and older) in Germany has increased dramatically over the years, and is predicted to increase from 7% of the total population in the last century to over 10% by 2020. The population in need of care is expected to increase from over a million to over 2 million people in 2020, which is about 2% of the population in Germany. 70% of the people, who are elderly and in need of care, live in private households, with a family member being the main caregiver in 80% of these households; daughters and daughters in law being the main caregivers. The continual increase in the elderly population in Germany signifies that there will be a greater need for health care services to be provided to the elderly, notably long-term care services. This increased need places the elderly in a vulnerable position because of the potential of funds not meeting all their needs.\n\nLong-term care insurance was established by the German welfare state in 1996 to give elderly financial resources for a caregiver. This insurance either provides care services or cash benefits to pay for a private caregiver, such as a family member. This provides families with more support from a public institution, now being responsible for financing care for the elderly, unlike formerly when the high expenses of institutional care caused most families to care for their elderly in their own households. With the emergence of care insurance an emergence of private home-care agencies and new residential arrangements for elderly also arose. If a family opted for the long-term care insurance to provide care services, they could attain these services through these private agencies; otherwise, they would receive cash benefits that could be used to pay a family member or other individual for informal care services.\n\nThere are significant differences in the use of the long-term care services in Germany, depending on social position, ethnic background, and gender. Those with a higher social position most often utilize home-based services provided by private institutions, while those in a lower social position most often utilize cash benefits. Additionally, German elderly minorities are underrepresented in professionalized home-based services and residential care. This is attributed to the large number of people in informal family care and their different cultures leading to difficulties in adapting to the existing care services. There is also a discrepancy in the numbers of women and men that utilize the care services. 69% of service recipients are women, which is attributed to women constituting the majority of the elderly of over 80 years old, receiving lower pensions, and requiring more care dependency.\n\nIn a study conducted in 1992, Louis Harris interviewed 948 elderly people over the age of 65 from Germany in order to have a better understanding of their health care access satisfaction and quality of life. 29% of German elderly are satisfied with their health care. 54% report having fair or poor health; and 38% report having six or more physician contacts over the past six months. 6% of German elderly viewed out-of-pocket medical expenses as a serious issue, 15% viewed Germany’s system of paying for medical care as “inadequate”. Overall, a significant proportion of the elderly population are satisfied with their health care, and a very small amount view out-of-pocket medical expenses as a serious issue. Taking this into account along with the long-term care services the elderly are provided, the German elderly generally have good access to short-term and long-term care insurance.\n\nDespite their current access to short-term and long-term health insurance services, it is often concluded that the increasing elderly population in Germany will have negative consequences on health care expenditures, which may threaten these services. This is further emphasized by the bankruptcy of the German health insurance fund City BKK recently declared bankruptcy due to the rising number of members and costs, which exceeded its budget from the healthcare fund. There appears to be a linear relationship between the increase of age and increase of health care costs. However, a study conducted by Hilke Brockmann in 2000, suggests that as a person ages, their health care expenses decrease. The study further shows that proximity to death is what increases health costs, not age itself. Furthermore, the decrease in health expenditures as a person ages can be attributed to elderly having less expensive diseases. However, when comparing medical treatment expenses of the same diseases in young and elderly people in Germany, it was discovered that elderly people are still receiving less expensive health care, which suggests that health care is being rationed in Germany based on age, rationing being illegal and potentially responsible for the elderly not receiving the best treatment possible, ultimately, decreasing their potential for survival.\n\nOne factor that largely contributes to the costs associated with old age is the presence of mental health issues, namely depression. A study was conducted on 451 primary care patients aged 75 and older. 63 out of the 451 patients were diagnosed with depression. Depressed and non-depressed individuals had similar education levels and did not have significant differences in age and gender. It was found that 14% of depressed individuals used mental health specialist services, while 8% of non-depressed individuals used mental health specialist services were used by 2%; psychiatrists were used by 5% of the depressed elderly and 1% by the non-depressed; and psychologists were used by 2% depressed elderly and 0.5% non-depressed. Additionally, depressed elderly were admitted to hospitals for an average stay of 20.7 days while non-depressed individuals were admitted for an average of 13 days. The overall direct health care costs of depressed elderly were found to be 5422 Euros annually, and in non-depressed elderly 3624 Euros annually. Ultimately, it is unknown how much of the direct health care costs can be attributed to diagnosed and undiagnosed depression, but what is clear that the presence of depression in elderly affects their quality of life, which can potentially be improved if depression is recognized and treated promptly. In addition, prompt treatment of depression may reduce direct health care costs in the elderly population.\n\nElderly patients with multiple chronic conditions are also associated with higher health care use and cost. Studies conducted showed that the illness level of the elderly is what directly affects health care use and costs; the illness level was measured as the number of incidences of disease.\n\nIn order to reduce some of the health care expenditures associated with the medical conditions of the German elderly, which is largely due to money spent on medications for mental health or chronic conditions, the German government is strictly regulating reimbursement and pricing policies of the pharmaceutical market using cost-effective analysis. This along with the implementation of other policies may reduce health care expenditures related to the elderly, reducing the threat of eliminating some of these services, and helping them have good access to short-term and long-term health care services as well as leading a good quality of life.\n"}
{"id": "36094374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36094374", "title": "Health information on Wikipedia", "text": "Health information on Wikipedia\n\nThe online encyclopedia Wikipedia has, since the late 2000s, served as a popular source for health information for both laypersons and, in many cases, health care practitioners. Health-related articles on Wikipedia are popularly accessed as results from search engines, which frequently deliver links to Wikipedia articles. Independent assessments have been made of the number and demographics of people who seek health information on Wikipedia, the scope of health information on Wikipedia, and the quality of the information on Wikipedia.\n\nThe English-language Wikipedia was estimated in 2014 to hold around 25,000 articles on health-related topics. Across Wikipedia encyclopedias in all languages there were 155,000 health articles using 950,000 citations to sources and which collectively received 4.8 billion pageviews in 2013. This amount of traffic makes Wikipedia one of the most consulted health resources in the world, or perhaps the most consulted resource.\n\nAs of the end of 2013, the English Wikipedia had 29,072 medical articles, while across all language versions of Wikipedia, there were 155,805 medical articles. As of March 2017, the English Wikipedia had 30,000 medical articles, while there were 164,000 medical articles in other languages. As of 2017, there were about 6,000 anatomy articles on the English Wikipedia; these are not classified as \"medical articles\" in Wikipedia's categorization scheme and thus are not included in the 30,000 figure above.\n\nA 2007 study examined a sample of Wikipedia pages about the most frequently performed surgical procedures in the United States, and found that 85.7% of them were appropriate for patients and that these articles had \"a remarkably high level of internal validity\". However, the same study also raised concerns about Wikipedia's completeness, noting that only 62.9% of the articles examined were free of \"critical omissions\".\nA 2008 study reported that drug information on Wikipedia \"has a more narrow scope, is less complete, and has more errors of omission\" than did such information on the traditionally edited online database Medscape Drug Reference.\n\nA 2011 assessment of 50 medical articles on Wikipedia found that 56% of the references cited on these pages could be considered reputable, and that each entry contained 29 reputable sources on average.\n\nA 2011 study examined Wikipedia pages about five statins, and concluded that these pages did not contain incorrect or misleading information, but that they were often missing information about drug interactions and contraindications to use.\n\nAnother 2011 study examining Wikipedia articles on the 20 most widely prescribed drugs found that seven of these articles did not have any references, and concluded that \"Wikipedia does not provide consistently accurate, complete, and referenced medication information.\"\n\nAn assessment of Wikipedia articles in 2012 on dietary supplements found that Wikipedia articles were \"frequently incomplete, of variable quality, and sometimes inconsistent with reputable sources of information on these products.\"\n\nA 2013 scoping review published in the \"Journal of Medical Internet Research\" summarized the existing evidence about the use of wikis, Wikipedia and other collaborative writing applications in health care and found that the available research publications were observational reports rather than the primary research studies which would be necessary to begin drawing conclusions.\n\nA 2014 study that examined 97 Wikipedia articles about complementary and alternative medicine (CAM) found that 4% of them had attained \"Good article\" status, and that CAM articles on Wikipedia tended to be significantly shorter than those about conventional therapies.\nIn May 2014, \"The Journal of the American Osteopathic Association\" published an article which concluded that \"Most Wikipedia articles for the 10 costliest conditions in the United States contain errors compared with standard peer-reviewed sources.\" Following this paper, many other media sources reported that readers should not trust Wikipedia for medical information. Wikipedia's contributors to its health content defended Wikipedia and criticized this study, as the research is considered severely flawed including basic methodological flaws like the conclusions are not supported by the data provided.\n\nA 2014 study found that when the FDA issues new safety warnings about drugs, in 41% of cases reviewed Wikipedia articles about those drugs were updated to give the new safety information within two weeks. Another 23% of Wikipedia drug articles were updated to give this information within an average of about 40 days, but 36% of articles are not updated with this information within a year.\n\nA 2014 comparison between selected drug information from pharmacology textbooks and comparable information on the English-language and German-language Wikipedias found that the drug information in Wikipedia covers most of what is essential for undergraduate pharmacology studies and that it is accurate.\n\nA 2015 study comparing the coverage of the autism-vaccine controversy on several websites found that Wikipedia's articles were broadly pro-vaccine. The study attributed this pro-vaccine stance to \"this highly controversial topic attracting committed editors who strictly enforce the requirements for academic references.\"\n\nA 2016 study found that drug information on Wikipedia was less accurate and complete than that on the medical reference site Micromedex.\n\nA 2017 study compared the accuracy of Wikipedia articles about the 33 most popular medications with medication guides to the accuracy of their medication guides. The study found that the Wikipedia articles were generally less accurate than were the corresponding medication guides.\n\nA 2013 review of nephrology content on Wikipedia found it to be \"a comprehensive and fairly reliable medical resource for nephrology patients that is written at a college reading level\".\n\nA 2014 study found that Wikipedia's article on Parkinson's disease had a Flesch reading ease score of 30.31, meaning that it was difficult to read.\n\nThe readability of Wikipedia's articles on epilepsy was evaluated and found to be low, indicating that they were difficult to read. Another study found that Wikipedia's information about neurological diseases was significantly more difficult to read than the information in the American Academy of Neurology's patient brochures, the Mayo Clinic's website, or MedlinePlus. Another 2015 study, this one authored by Samy Azer, reported that Wikipedia should not be used to learn about concepts related to pulmonology students. Another 2015 study by Azer found that Wikipedia entries about cardiovascular diseases were \"not aimed at a medical audience\" and were mainly inaccurate due to errors of omission.\n\nA 2016 study found that Wikipedia information about common internal medicine diagnoses was written at a higher grade level than any of the four other sites studied (NIH, WebMD, Mayo Clinic, and \"diagnosis-specific websites\"). In contrast, another study published the same year found that medical students reading about three unstudied diseases on AccessMedicine and Wikipedia experienced less mental effort than did readers of the same diseases on UpToDate.\n\nA 2017 study evaluating 134 Wikipedia articles on autoimmune diseases found that they were very difficult to read and required at least a university graduate reading level. The study's authors were concerned by Wikipedia's low readability, as people with autoimmune disorders often use Wikipedia to research their condition.\n\nA 2018 study evaluating 55 Wikipedia articles on neurosurgical topics found that they were significantly more difficult to read than the American Association of Neurological Surgeons's patient information articles, although both Wikipedia's articles and the AANS articles required a college reading level.\n\nWikipedia co-founder Jimmy Wales has said that lack of health information increases preventable deaths in emerging markets and that health information from Wikipedia can improve community health. Wales presented the Wikipedia Zero project as a channel for delivering health information into places where people have difficulty accessing online information.\n\nAs a result of public interest in the 2014 Ebola virus epidemic in West Africa, Wikipedia became a popular source of information on Ebola. Doctors who were Wikipedia contributors said that Wikipedia's quality made it useful.\n\nPeople who promote alternative medicine have complained that Wikipedia negatively portrays holistic health treatments including energy medicine, Emotional Freedom Techniques, Thought Field Therapy and Tapas Acupressure Technique. In response, Wales has stated, \"If you can get your work published in respectable scientific journals – that is to say, if you can produce evidence through replicable scientific experiments, then Wikipedia will cover it appropriately.\" Similar concerns have been raised regarding its coverage of homeopathy.\n\nWikipedia policy for articles that \"could reasonably be perceived as relating to human health\" comes under the policy for which is science-based.\n\nThe majority of people in the United States use the internet as a source of health information. One 2013 study suggested that 22% of healthcare searches online direct users to Wikipedia.\n\nWikipedia was described in 2014 as \"the leading single source of healthcare information for patients and healthcare professionals\". A study of a particular group of veterinary students found that the majority of these students sought and found medical information on Wikipedia. Some doctors have described their use of Wikipedia as a \"guilty secret\".\n\nA 2015 study compared the popularity of Wikipedia's articles on ten of the most common neurological disorders over a 90-day period from April 2014 to July 2014; it found that there was no relationship between the incidence or prevalence of a neurological disorder and the number of page views it received. For example, Wikipedia's article on multiple sclerosis was far more popular than its articles on more common disorders like migraine, epilepsy, or stroke. The authors theorized that this might be due to the increasing prevalence of MRI scans, which has led to an increase in incidental findings of white matter lesions. Although most of these lesions have nothing to do with multiple sclerosis, they may lead patients, relatives, and even physicians to perform Internet searches on \"multiple sclerosis\", which may lead them to the Wikipedia article.\n\nWikipedia's health information has been described as \"transforming how our next doctors learn medicine\". Various commentators in health education have said that Wikipedia is popular among medical students.\n\nA 2013 study done at a single medical school showed that 97% of students used Wikipedia to study medicine, with the most common reasons being ease of access and ease of understanding. There was no relationship between a student's year in medical school and his or her use of Wikipedia, but students further along in medical school were less likely to use Wikipedia as their first resource, only resource, or most common resource; they were also more likely to perceive Wikipedia as unreliable.\n\nIn 2013, UCSF School of Medicine began to offer fourth-year medical students a month-long elective centered around improving Wikipedia's health-related articles. Between 2013 and 2015, 43 students took part in the course and chose a single health-related article to work on. A study of their contributions by UCSF faculty found that the students expanded their articles, added higher-quality sources, removed lower-quality sources, and improved readability. The study's authors argued that medical schools should encourage students to contribute to Wikipedia, both to improve the quality of its content and to enable students to become better health care educators.\n\nA 2015 study of five European medical schools found that students who used Wikipedia for general information were more likely to use it to look up medical information. 16% of students used Wikipedia often for general information, 60% sometimes, and 24% rarely. 12% of students used Wikipedia often for medical information, 55% sometimes, and 33% rarely. Almost all of the students (97%) found inaccurate information on Wikipedia at least once, but less than 20% of them corrected it.\n\nA 2017 study of online resource use by first-year medical students at Melbourne Medical School found that they used the school's online learning platform most often (daily) and used Google and Wikipedia slightly less often (approximately daily). The students considered the learning platform to be most useful, followed by Google and Wikipedia, which they considered slightly less useful than the learning platform but significantly more useful than Facebook or Google Scholar. They also considered the learning platform to be the most reliable and considered Google and Wikipedia to be significantly less reliable, although they frequently used both websites as a starting point for finding information.\n\nA 2018 study of resources used by medical students during their general surgery clerkship at the University of Florida College of Medicine found that review books were the most commonly used type of study resource, followed by the Internet. Wikipedia was the third-most commonly used resource and the most commonly used Internet resource. The study found no correlation between the type of resource used and students' performance on the NBME surgery subject exam.\n\nA 2009 study of Internet use by 35 junior doctors in the United Kingdom found that 80% of them used Google and 70% of them used Wikipedia to look up medical information at least once a week, while only 30% used PubMed. Google and Wikipedia were primarily used for background reading, while PubMed and other \"best evidence\" websites were used to answer specific questions for clinical decision-making.\n\nA 2015 survey of psychiatry residents at Harvard Medical School found that they used online resources twice as often as they used printed resources. The three most commonly used resources were UpToDate, PubMed, and Wikipedia. UpToDate was the most used resource and was considered to be the most trustworthy, while PubMed was the second most used resource and was highly rated as a source of personal learning. Wikipedia was the third most used resource and received the highest ranking for ease of use; however, it was considered the least trustworthy.\n\nA 2014 study of 259 health professionals in Spain found that while 53% of them used the Spanish Wikipedia to look up medical information during work, only 3% of them considered it reliable and only 16% recommended it to their patients. Only 16% had ever edited a Wikipedia article; the most common reasons for not doing were that they did not consider themselves an expert (51%), they preferred to blog or publish peer-reviewed articles (21%), and they were concerned that someone would undo any contributions they made (17%).\n\nWikipedia has been inappropriately cited as an authoritative source in many health science journals.\n\nIn 2009 a doctor and Wikipedia editor, James Heilman, incorporated public domain images of the Rorschach test into Wikipedia. Psychologists complained that the increased public exposure to these tests devalued their clinical utility, and that public health was harmed as a result.\n\nA 2014 interview study found that around half of the editors of health-related content on the English-language Wikipedia are health care professionals, while the other half includes some medical students. An author of this study wrote that this provides \"reassurance about the reliability of the website\". The study also found that the \"core editor community\", who actively monitor and edit most health-related articles on the English-language Wikipedia, numbered around 300 people. The study found that people who contribute on these topics do so for a variety of reasons, including a desire to better learn the subjects themselves, and a sense of both responsibility and enjoyment in improving others' access to health information.\n\nA 2016 study found that Wikipedia editors who contributed to articles on designer drugs were most likely to also contribute to articles on illegal drugs and pharmaceutical drugs, implying that they have a background in pharmacology. They were also more likely to contribute to articles on neurological disorders, psychiatric disorders, other diseases, and cell biology; they were least likely to edit articles about popular culture topics or history.\n\nJust as Google Flu Trends was able to correlate searches for flu to local outbreaks of flu, page views of Wikipedia articles on flu-related topics have been found to increase in populations experiencing the spread of flu, and of other diseases such as dengue fever and tuberculosis.\n\nIn 2009 the National Institutes of Health attempted a pilot project for integrating health information into Wikipedia. In 2011, it was reported that Cancer Research UK had started a program whereby some of its staff would edit Wikipedia's cancer-related articles.\n\nThe University of California, San Francisco has a program for encouraging students to contribute health content to Wikipedia.\n\nA collaboration between Cochrane and Wikipedia provides access to the Cochrane Library for the purposes of incorporating their review information into Wikipedia articles.\n\n"}
{"id": "21362415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21362415", "title": "Indian childhood cirrhosis", "text": "Indian childhood cirrhosis\n\nIndian childhood cirrhosis is a chronic liver disease of childhood characterised by cirrhosis of the liver due to deposition of copper in the liver. It primarily affects children of 1–3 years of age and has a genetic predisposition. It had a very high case fatality in the past but has eventually become preventable, treatable and is now rare.\n\n\nFurther reading\n\n"}
{"id": "1380083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1380083", "title": "International Psychopharmacology Algorithm Project", "text": "International Psychopharmacology Algorithm Project\n\nThe International Psychopharmacology Algorithm Project (IPAP) is a non-profit corporation whose purpose is to \"enable, enhance, and propagate\" use of algorithms for the treatment of some Axis I psychiatric disorders.\nKenneth O Jobson founded the Project. The Dean Foundation provides funding.\n\nIPAP has organized and supported several international conferences on psychopharmacology algorithms. It has also supported the creation of several algorithms based on expert opinion. It is now in the process of creating \"evidence-based algorithms,\" that is algorithms created by experts and annotated with the evidence that leads to these algorithms. A schizophrenia algorithm has been created and one on Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) was released in July 2005. A general anxiety disorder (GAD) algorithm was released in 2006. Periodic updates of the algorithms are released as the basis of evidence changes. In addition, the algorithms are being translated into various non-English languages (Chinese, Japanese, Spanish, and Thai) as the availability of translators permits.\n"}
{"id": "42780793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42780793", "title": "Invalid carriage", "text": "Invalid carriage\n\nInvalid carriages were usually single seater road vehicles, buggies, or self-propelled vehicles for disabled people. They pre-dated the electric mobility scooters and from the 1920s were generally powered by a small gasoline/petrol engine, although some were battery powered. They were usually designed without foot-operated controls.\n\nStephan Farffler was a Nuremberg watchmaker of the seventeenth century whose invention of a manumotive carriage in 1655 is widely considered to have been the first self-propelled wheelchair. As such it was consistent with the later designs for self-propelled invalid carriages. The three-wheeled device is also believed to have been a precursor to the modern-day tricycle and bicycle. Farffler was either a paraplegic or an amputee,\n\nIn England the fore-runner of the invalid carriage was the bath chair. It was invented by James Heath, of Bath in the early 18th century. Animal drawn versions of the bath chair became known as invalid carriages. An 1880 Monk and Co invalids carriage is on display at the M Shed Bristol.\n\nStanley Engineering Co Ltd of Egham, Surrey, began making self-propelled invalid carriages under the 'Argson' name in the 1920s. The Argson Runnymede was designed in South Africa manufactured in England from 1936 to 1954. They were either battery-powered or had a Villiers petrol engine. A petrol powered Runnymede drove across the Alps in 1947. Stanley Engineering was bought by C B Harper Ltd in 1954.\n\nR A Harding Company of Bath was founded in 1921. They initially produced hand-propelled tricycles. In 1926 Harding's introduced a variety of powered invalid carriages. The De Luxe models A and B were powered by a 122cc Villier-and the Pultney was powered by either a 200cc or 300cc JAP. There were also 24-volt or 36-volt electric machines. In 1945, the company was renamed R A Harding (Bath) Ltd, and the Pultney was discontinued. In December 1948 the De Luxe moels were upgraded with larger rear wheels, a new petrol tank, and a fan-cooled Villiers 147cc unit. Hardings introduced a full bodied model in 1956 called the Consort. Only 12 of these were made. The company closed down in 1988 having made hand powered models until 1973 and motor drive ones until 1966.\n\nFrom the 1930s to late 1940s, Nelco Industries made a three-wheeled battery powered vehicle. Steering was by means of a tiller connected to the front wheel. The tiller also provided speed control. Forward or reverse by a separate control. The 24 volt electric motor could act as a generator to recharge the battery when going downhill. The motor was 24 volt.\n\nIn 1948, Bert Greeves adapted a motorcycle with the help of his paralysed cousin Derry Preston-Cobb as transport for Preston-Cobb. Noticing the number of former servicemen injured in the Second World War they spotted a commercial opportunity and approached the UK government for support, leading to the creation of Invacar Ltd. Invacar was not the only company to be contracted by the Ministry of Health to produce three-wheeled vehicles for disabled drivers. Others included Harding, Dingwall & Son, AC Cars, Barrett, Tippen & Son, Thundersley, Vernon Industries, and Coventry Climax.\n\nThese early vehicles were powered by an air-cooled Villiers 147 cc engine, but when production of that engine ceased in the early 1970s it was replaced by a much more powerful 4-stroke 500 cc or 600 cc Steyr-Puch engine, giving a reported top speed of . They were low-cost low-maintenance vehicles, designed specifically for people with physical disabilities. Production of them stopped in 1976, and the last were withdrawn from the road in 2003, though some still exist, including a 1976 example, one of the last made, on display at the National Motor Museum, Beaulieu in Hampshire, England.\n\nIn Britain in the 1960s and 1970s, invalid carriages were provided as a subsidised low-cost vehicle to aid mobility of people with disabilities. Vehicles supplied by the National Health Service had 3 wheels, were very lightweight, and therefore their suitability on roads among other traffic was often considered dubious on safety grounds. Invalid-carriages are banned from motorways.\n\nFritz Fend, a former technical officer with the Luftwaffe, also designed a three-wheel invalid carriage in 1948. The first version was unpowered with the single wheel at the front. His powered version had a 38cc Victoria (motorcycle) two-stroke engine chain driving a single rear wheel with the pair of wheels at the front for steering. It was called the Fend Fritzer. Some 250 were made between 1948 and 1951 when it ceased production.\n\nInvalid carriages were also made in other countries: Simson DUO in East Germany, SMZ in the Soviet Union and Velorex in Czechoslovakia.\n\nThe Duo was made initially by VEB Fahrzeugbau und Ausrüstungen Brandis (VEB FAB) from 1973 until 1978, whereupon manufacture was transferred to VEB Robur, more famous for making trucks in Zittau. Because many of the components are common with the Simson, the Duo is often classified as a Simson. Production ceased in 1989.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "410851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=410851", "title": "Kegel exercise", "text": "Kegel exercise\n\nKegel exercise, also known as pelvic floor exercise, consists of repeatedly contracting and relaxing the muscles that form part of the pelvic floor, now sometimes colloquially referred to as the \"Kegel muscles\". The exercise can be performed multiple times each day, for several minutes at a time, for one to three months, to begin to have an effect.\n\nKegel exercises can make the pelvic floor muscles stronger. These are the muscles that hold up the bladder and help keep it from leaking. Exercises are usually done to reduce urinary stress incontinence (especially after childbirth) and reduce premature ejaculation in men.\n\nSeveral tools exist to help with these exercises, although various studies debate the relative effectiveness of different tools versus traditional exercises. They were first described in 1948 by American gynecologist Arnold Kegel.\n\nFactors such as pregnancy, childbirth, aging, being overweight, and abdominal surgery such as cesarean section, often result in the weakening of the pelvic muscles. This can be assessed by either digital examination of vaginal pressure or using a Kegel perineometer. Kegel exercises are useful in regaining pelvic floor muscle strength in such cases.\n\nPelvic floor exercises (muscle training) can be included in conservative treatment approaches for women with urinary incontinence. There is tentative evidence that biofeedback may give added benefit when used with pelvic floor muscle training. After a prostatectomy there is no clear evidence that teaching pelvic floor exercises alters the risk of urinary incontinence in men.\n\nThe symptoms of prolapse and its severity can be decreased with pelvic floor exercises. Effectiveness can be improved with feedback on how to do the exercises.\n\nThe aim of Kegel exercises is to improve muscle tone by strengthening the pubococcygeus muscles of the pelvic floor. Kegel is a popular prescribed exercise for pregnant women to prepare the pelvic floor for physiological stresses of the later stages of pregnancy and childbirth. Kegel exercises are said to be good for treating vaginal prolapse and preventing uterine prolapse in women and for treating prostate pain and swelling resulting from benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) and prostatitis in men. Kegel exercises may be beneficial in treating urinary incontinence in both men and women. Kegel exercises may also increase sexual gratification, allowing women to complete pompoir and aid in reducing premature ejaculation in men. The many actions performed by Kegel muscles include holding in urine and avoiding defecation. Reproducing this type of muscle action can strengthen the Kegel muscles. The action of slowing or stopping the flow of urine may be used as a test of correct pelvic floor exercise technique.\n\nIt is now known that the components of levator ani (the pelvic diaphragm), namely pubococcygeus, puborectalis and ileococcygeus, contract and relax as one muscle. Hence, pelvic floor exercises involve the entire levator ani rather than pubococcygeus alone. Pelvic floor exercises may be of benefit in cases of fecal incontinence and pelvic organ prolapse conditions e.g. rectal prolapse.\n\nSome devices have been marketed to women exercise their pelvic floor muscle and improve the muscle tone of the pubococcygeal or vaginal muscle.\n\nAs of 2013 there was no evidence that doing pelvic floor exercise with weights worked better than doing Kegel exercises without weights; there is greater risk with weights, because a foreign object is introduced into the vagina.\n\nInserting foreign objects into the vagina increases the risk of infections and can lead to vaginosis or toxic shock syndrome. Overuse of such Kegel exercises, with or without a device, can lead to pelvic pain and pain during sex.\n\nDuring the latter part of the 20th century, a number of medical and pseudo-medical devices were marketed to consumers as improving sex or orgasms, increasing \"energy\", \"balancing hormones\", and as having other health or lifestyle benefits. There is no evidence for any of these claims, and many of them are pseudoscience.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59224894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59224894", "title": "LPS-responsive beige-like anchor protein deficiency", "text": "LPS-responsive beige-like anchor protein deficiency\n\nLPS-responsive beige-like anchor protein deficiency is a rare genetic condition caused by the absence of LPS-responsive beige-like anchor protein (\"LRBA\"). \n\nThe LBRA gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 4 (4q31.3).\n\nLBRA protein interacts with the protein CTLA4. The absence of LBRA increases the turnover of CTLA4 and interferes with vesicle trafficing. \n\nThe presentation of this condition is variable making the diagnosis difficult. The most common features include \n\n\nThere is also a tendency to develop inflammatory bowel disease. \n\n\nAlong with treatment for infections and other complications several additional treatments have been tried. These include hematopoietic stem cell transplantation, immunoglobulin replacement and immunosuppressive treatment. \n\nThis condition was first described in 2012.\n"}
{"id": "2905511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2905511", "title": "Late effect", "text": "Late effect\n\nIn medicine, a late effect is a condition that appears after the acute phase of an earlier, causal condition has run its course. A late effect can be caused directly by the earlier condition, or indirectly by the treatment for the earlier condition. Some late effects can occur decades later. Historically, late effects have been very difficult to connect with their causes, but as survivorship and life span has increased and \"follow up\" has become standard practice, these connections are becoming established. A period, often very long, of health unaffected by both the initial and the late effect conditions distinguishes a late effect from a sequela or a complication. A code for such a condition was present in the ICD-9 but is no longer present in the ICD-10.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5216812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5216812", "title": "Life Ball", "text": "Life Ball\n\nThe Life Ball in Vienna is the biggest charity event in Europe supporting people with HIV or AIDS. The event is organized by the nonprofit organization AIDS LIFE, which was founded in 1992 by Gery Keszler and Torgom Petrosian.\n\nAIDS LIFE supports aid organizations devoted to helping people who are HIV-positive or have AIDS. The team entrusted with the allocation of funds thoroughly examines each petition. Moreover, it is an explicit goal of AIDS LIFE to raise public awareness.\n\nThe Life Ball—one of the biggest and most spectacular annual charity events in the world—has attracted strong international interest and attention. The main priority of the Ball is, however, not only the exuberant celebration of the party people or spectacular live acts, but the fight against AIDS.\n\nTo ensure that the meaning of this major event is not forgotten, the opening ceremony on Vienna’s city hall square includes moments of silence and speeches by international stars and partners, which focus on raising awareness for AIDS.\nSince the establishment of this society highlight, which has become a real tradition, numerous celebrities (designers, actors, musicians, politicians, and models) show their personal commitment to the issue with breathtaking live performances and send a strong signal of solidarity. They make use of their popularity and position as role models for a good cause.\nThe number of tickets for the Life Ball is limited to 3,780. To maintain the unique and extravagant style of the event, different ticket categories are available: a fixed number of tickets called “Style Tickets” are available at half price and are for those who meet the dress code of the Life Ball Style Bible. The costumes should correspond to the theme of the Ball. These are also the only guests—besides the stars—who are allowed to walk down the red carpet, which leads from Ringstrasse Boulevard across city hall square to the main stage in front of Vienna’s city hall. In the run-up to the 2008 Ball, Gery Keszler voiced the wish that guests try to be less provocative and more creative. As Chris Lohner put it: \"A penis is not yet a costume\". Guests can apply for Style Tickets on the Style Bible webpage. Guests in normal evening attire pay the full ticket price. In 2001, a ticket sales system in which interested parties register in a raffle for tickets via text message was introduced. Usually, as many as 60,000 ticket registrations are received within the two-day sales period. The lucky ticket winners in both categories are selected randomly from all applications. A small number of tickets is issued through various campaigns (e.g., Life Ball Warm Up, eBay auctions, types of raffles where the ticket win is hidden in condom packages that are sold in selected bars and restaurants, a.s.o.) International guests can book Life Ball Packages including plane tickets and hotel as well as table bookings, which cost 4- to 5-figure euro amounts. In 2009, early table bookings slowed down due to the new Austrian anti-corruption act that entered into force in 2008.\n\nThe opening gala features a wide variety of music, from operetta to pop, national as well as international stars, and the fashion show on the huge Red Ribbon stage. Until 2008, it could be viewed free of charge on city hall square, which could accommodate 45,000 people; in 2009, however, access to the first part of the opening ceremony was limited to those who had tickets to the Ball itself and a viewers’ stand was constructed for those who wanted to view the opening ceremony. Guests can dance in the various patios and rooms of the city hall as they enjoy the offerings of the many bars and buffets. Some of the international stars perform on stages on the Ball premises.\n\nThis glamorous charity event is known far beyond the Austrian borders today. By now, over 60 TV stations and a total of 500 national and international media representatives cover the event each year. In case of repeated accreditation, the organizers check whether the topic of AIDS was also addressed in the coverage to avoid that only stars and celebrities are mentioned. Austrian public broadcaster ORF 1 has been covering the opening show live since 2007 as part of a “theme night” followed by interviews with famous guests after the opening, attracting around 400,000 viewers each year. Since 2007, the opening show has also been broadcast on 3sat with a time delay. In 2008, Austrian channel Puls 4 also had a live broadcast of the Ball after ORF's live broadcast. The new German TV station TIMM covered the event in 2009 in a 4-hour non-stop program, for which the ORF signal was used in part.\n\nOrganizer and founder Gery Keszler is the “face” and engine of the Life Ball. It is also mainly his achievement that fashion representatives and celebrities of the entertainment industry such as Roseanne Barr, Elton John, Catherine Deneuve, Liza Minnelli, Sharon Stone, Dita von Teese, Anastacia, Heidi Klum, Naomi Campbell and Jenna Jameson attend the opening show. Some play an active role in the event’s program, others just enjoy the party and celebrate. Gery Keszler chose the Vienna city hall as venue because he found it had great symbolic value. He felt that it should be part of the Viennese ball tradition, but be more provocative and glamorous. He was given the opportunity to present his project to then mayor Helmut Zilk. Zilk was convinced of the positive effect of such an event and gave it a try. He agreed to let Keszler have the festival hall in the Vienna city hall and supported him despite all opposition. Zilk’s stance was remarkable as support for this cause was not something that could be taken for granted at that time. There were also doubts as to whether the event would be a success. For Keszler it was exciting and nerve-wrecking until the opening, because the first guests arrived rather late.\n\nThe first Life Ball took place on May 29, 1993. In addition to the Vienna city administration, the event had only two sponsors. The ATS 1,100,000 (EUR 79,940) raised by the first Ball were donated to the non-profit organization AIDS LIFE, which was founded by Gery Keszler and Torgom Petrosian in 1992, to support other organizations helping people who are HIV-positive or have AIDS. Ever since the first Life Ball, a fashion show, then presented by Thierry Mugler, has become a key feature of the event. In the second year, at the Life Ball on May 28, 1994, the money raised through donations, sponsoring and ticket sales was doubled. The first two Balls were covered by TV stations in Austria and Germany. The third Ball on May 6, 1995, already attracted interest from French and Spanish broadcasters as well as MTV. In the subsequent years, the number of guests attending the opening show and the Ball as well as the number of journalists, radio stations, print media articles and sponsors rose steadily. This also increased the funds raised by the Life Ball to be donated to AIDS projects and research. In 1999, the Vienna city hall was renovated and the Ball took place in the Hofburg palace.\n\nA cornerstone was accomplished at the 8th Life Ball on May 13, 2000: it was the first time the funds raised broke the ATS 10,000,000 (EUR 726,728) barrier. It was also the first Ball at which the opening show took place on the city hall square and was publicly accessible. The next year, for the first time projects in Africa (cf. HIV/AIDS in Africa) were supported through a cooperation with the Elton John Aids Foundation (EJAF) – Elton John was himself a regular guest at the event from 2001 to 2005 and also held the opening speeches. The 13th Life Ball on May 21, 2005, for the first time exceeded the EUR 1 million mark with a total of EUR 1,017,600 generated by ticket sales, catering, auctions, raffle, stamp and record sales and the contributions of various donors and sponsors. Half of the proceeds are donated to international projects. Since 2006, the American Foundation for AIDS Research (amfAR), which was founded by Elizabeth Taylor and whose current president is Sharon Stone, has been a cooperation partner of the Life Ball. The main focus in 2006 was on the fight of HIV and AIDS in babies and toddlers.\nCompared to today, the Life Ball started as a small event from the gay community. In contrast to other events attended by Keszler back then, it was never intended to be an event only for the gay scene or jet-setters. It combines Viennese ball tradition with fancy-costume queer balls. Some of the gay community supported the project greatly, especially when it was still in its infancy, e.g., Café Berg (since its opening). However, the Ball has attracted a majority of heterosexual guests for some time now, and also many companies make a contribution. To avoid the potential worst case – that gay people do not get tickets to an event which had its origins in the gay scene—the lesbian and gay community has had a ticket quota for some years. Even though the Life Ball has not been a mere “gay” event for some time, just as much as AIDS is no longer a “gay” epidemic, it still has this reputation. The attribute “gay” has, however, not been detrimental to revenue. When not discussed in the equal rights context, “gays are considered creative and fun—and are said to throw better parties”, which is a money-making cliché. Moreover, trend expert Bernhard Heinzlmaier adds that “it is considered hip to move in a gay environment. It indicates an open and modern set of mind.” In addition to the charity aspect, the “gay hipness” surrounding the heterosexual guests is therefore another reason for donations. The homosexuals in Austria alone would not be a big enough crowd to get companies to make such generous donations.\n\nAt least two celebrity couples met at the event: Austrian professional swimmer Markus Rogan and then Miss Austria Christine Reiler met at the 2007 Ball in which they both participated in the fashion show as models. At the Life Ball 2008, they celebrated their one-year anniversary and graced the runway in a partner-look outfit. The same night, TV presenter Nazan Eckes and Julian Khol, the Düsseldorf-based Austrian model, art student, and son of politician Andreas Khol, also met.\n\nFrom 2000 to 2007, a wedding chapel for couples of any sexual orientation with famous “show priests” was hosted together with Austrian TV channel ATV to point out the unequal treatment of heterosexual and homosexual couples.\n\nOn the occasion of the XVIII International AIDS Conference that is beginning one day after the big event in Vienna, this year’s Life Ball will be very special. On the 17th of July Europe’s biggest AIDS charity event not only takes place in the Vienna City Hall and on City Hall Square, but also at the Burgtheater (the former imperial court theatre) and the Parliament. The “concept of the three houses” unites three extraordinary events and important organizations; the amfAR gala in the Parliament, the Elton John AIDS Foundation at the Red Ribbon Cotillion in the Burgtheater, and the William J. Clinton Foundation at the traditional Life Ball in the Vienna City Hall. With the support of many different personalities these three events together set a clear signal for tolerance and solidarity.\n\nAccess to the Life Ball is extremely limited. Each year, thousands of requests for Life Ball Tickets are received and few are granted to this exclusive experience. Recently, the Life Ball opened their doors to international guests who want to attend. A few international travel representatives have been selected to exclusively represent a region in offering travel packages to the Life Ball.\n\nA notable event at the 2013 Life Ball was Barbara Eden appearing, wearing her Jeannie outfit.\n\nIn November 2015, Keszler said that there would be no Life Ball in 2016, and that the next ball would be held in the summer of 2017. However, the Red Ribbon Cotillion will still be held that year. \n\nThe event is usually accompanied by a number of campaigns. In 2006, guests from western Austria could for the first time make use of a dedicated “Ö3 Life Ball Express” train with a special party carriage and shuttle buses that brought them to Vienna’s city hall, and also the specially modified “Life Ball Party Plane” premiered in 2008, flying in guests and media representatives from New York City to Vienna, already setting the right mood for the Ball. The dance club Volksgarten, located not far from the Ball venue, hosts the Life Ball Party and the after hour in the early hours of the morning for all those who did not get tickets to the Ball itself. The money from these campaigns also goes to the Life Ball. Also, there is a “Diners Club Life Ball” credit card carrying the Red Ribbon design, which automatically transfers 0.5% of each transaction to AIDS LIFE.\n\nLimited edition stamps on the occasion of the Life Ball have been issued for a number of years now. The 2005 stamp bore Heidi Klum’s picture, followed by Naomi Campbell in 2006. In that year, also a limited edition of stamps featuring Naomi Campbell in comic style was sold on eBay. German supermodel Nadja Auermann was the face of the 2007 Life Ball stamps.\n\nThe performance of the Life Ball Song marks the official opening of the Ball.\n\n\nSince 2006, the Life Ball Fanfare, composed by Bela Fischer, has been played at the beginning of the opening show.\n\nEach year, one or more famous fashion designers are responsible for the event’s fashion show. Professional models on the catwalk such as Marcus Schenkenberg, Alek Wek, Nadja Auermann, Heidi Klum, Eva Padberg, Eva Riccobono, and Naomi Campbell appear alongside stars and celebrities such as Udo Kier, Olivia Jones, Til Schweiger, Kylie Minogue, Cyndi Lauper, Dolly Buster, Austrian Health Minister Andrea Kdolsky.\n\nFashion designers since the inception of the Life Ball:\n\n\nThe annual award of the \"Crystal of Hope donated by Swarovski\" during the Ball’s opening ceremony has become a fixed item on the program. The EUR 100,000 decoration has been presented by a celebrity or head of an AIDS organization to honor achievements in the field of HIV/AIDS research since 2005.\n\nThe Red Ribbon-shaped award is a tribute to extraordinary commitments in the fight against AIDS or outstanding AIDS projects of international partner organizations of AIDS Life.\n\n\n\nSince 1995, when Paris Premiere and a Spanish TV station joined the media crowd, the Life Ball has been broadcast on a pan-European level. In 1999, American TV stations (besides MTV) made the broadcast intercontinental. Internet TV started reporting on the event in 2001. Since 2002, stricter accreditation criteria have been applied and the number of media representatives has been limited to 500 due to capacity restrictions. In 2004, the first South African TV teams reported live from the Ball.\n\nExcept for one Sunday in 2002, the Ball has always taken place on a Saturday. And apart from a short stint at Hofburg palace in 1999 due to renovations, the venue of the Ball has always been Vienna’s city hall. Since 2000, the opening ceremony and the fashion show have taken place on the square in front of the city hall. The opening speech has been held by international celebrities since 2001.\n\nThe Life Ball is the most important source of income for AIDS LIFE. Since its inception, margins from annual proceeds and from the total sum of subsidized projects have been profitably invested to be able to finance national projects for another year, should the Life Ball have to be canceled one year. As proceeds are impossible to forecast, the organization does not finance infrastructure costs of the projects it supports, such as rent, personnel expenses, and operating costs. A failure of AIDS LIFE to produce financial support must not result in the cancellation of a project.\n\nOn May 24, 2007, two days before the Life Ball, a formal dinner with Bill Clinton which was also attended by Austrian President Heinz Fischer and then Austrian Chancellor Alfred Gusenbauer was held in the Great Gallery of Schönbrunn Palace. With the support of major Austrian companies, the total amount of donations could be raised even further. After dinner, guests enjoyed the Concert for Europe played by the Vienna Philharmonic in the palace’s park and a check worth USD 1 million was presented to Clinton for the HIV/AIDS initiative (CHAI) of his William J. Clinton Foundation. The same program was planned for 2008 but had to be canceled because Clinton was busy with the US primaries.\n\nSince 2008, nine full-time employees of the Life Ball have worked on the acquisition of donations in money and kind and coordinated all volunteers and participants over the course of a year. There are almost 1,000 partners and staff for catering alone.[10] A special audit of finances from 1994 to 2008 by auditing firm Hübner & Hübner in 2009 confirmed Life Ball’s proper financial conduct. At a press conference, Andreas Röthlin also made it clear that “as opposed to many other charitable organizations, AIDS LIFE is very efficiently managed, also and especially with regard to expenses.” At this occasion, AIDS LIFE also received the “Österreichisches Spendengütesiegel” (Reg. Nr. 05685), a quality seal for NPOs awarded by the Austrian auditors’ chamber, valid as of August 24, 2009.\n\n\n“Because Gery Keszler’s 14th AIDS charity night was indeed great. But: that does not mean anything, as it is an intrinsic characteristic of the Life Ball to be super. In all spheres: the Life Ball is beyond criticism. Reporting about it means cheering, which is, to an extent, justified.”\n\n– Der Standard, May 21, 2006\n\n“Some political gay rights activists and “fundamentalists” are skeptical about the way the idea and the ball are turned into a lifestyle and are diluted, but nobody speaks up to voice criticism.” Gery Keszler is well aware of the delicate balancing act between the fun factor, which in turn attracts people and companies, creates publicity and, eventually, collects as much in donations as possible, and the message to be conveyed. For instance, only journalists who have reported not only about celebrities but also about HIV and AIDS are accredited again. Sometimes it is criticized+ that by now also certain conservative and/or right-wing politicians show up as guests or announce to attend the Ball. Keszler believes that a ball against discrimination should not discriminate against anyone. If these people manage to secure a ticket and believe they would enjoy the event, they will certainly not be stopped from attending it. And Keszler regards their potential plan of ganging up and making “all well” again as naïve.\n\n"}
{"id": "31271356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31271356", "title": "List of abbreviations used in health informatics", "text": "List of abbreviations used in health informatics\n\nThis is a list of abbreviations used in health informatics.\n\n"}
{"id": "47422067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47422067", "title": "List of countries by future population (United Nations, zero-migration variant)", "text": "List of countries by future population (United Nations, zero-migration variant)\n\nThis is a List of countries by future population using the zero-migration variant, ranging from 2020 to 2100 in decades or ten-year periods, as estimated by the 2015 revision of the World Population Prospects database by the United Nations Population Division. All figures are rounded and given in thousands.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39755771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39755771", "title": "Ludy T. Benjamin", "text": "Ludy T. Benjamin\n\nLudy T. Benjamin Jr. (born December 26, 1945) is an American psychologist and historian of psychology. He retired from Texas A&M University in 2012. He is a charter member of the Association for Psychological Science and a former director of the Office of Educational Affairs at the American Psychological Association (APA). He was president of two APA divisions, wrote more than 20 books and authored more than 150 journal articles and book chapters.\n\nLudy Benjamin was born in Corpus Christi, Texas in 1945. He received a BA in psychology from The University of Texas. He earned a PhD in experimental psychology from Texas Christian University in 1971. His studies specialized in perception. He was on the faculty of Nebraska Wesleyan University for several years, then spent two years directing the APA Office of Educational Affairs in Washington, DC. He became a faculty member at Texas A&M University in 1980. While at Texas A&M, Benjamin received numerous awards, including the Distinguished Teaching in Psychology Award from the American Psychological Foundation. He was one of the two inaugural recipients of a $25,000 teaching excellence award from the university, thought to be the largest monetary sum for an award bestowed annually by a single university. In May 2012, Benjamin retired from Texas A&M.\n\nBenjamin is a fellow and charter member of the Association for Psychological Science. He has been the president of the Society for the History of Psychology (SHP) and the Society for the Teaching of Psychology (STP), both of which are divisions of the APA. He also served three terms as STP treasurer. Benjamin has written more than 20 books and authored more than 150 journal articles and book chapters. He delivered the APS David Myers Distinguished Lecture at the organization's annual conference in 2010. Benjamin helped to establish Teachers of Psychology in Secondary Schools (TOPSS) and chaired the committee that introduced the College Board's Advanced Placement Psychology Examination.\n\nBenjamin won the 2001 APA Distinguished Career Contributions to Education and Training Award. The SHP presented its Lifetime Achievement Award to him in 2007. The STP awarded him a Presidential Citation in 2011. He received the APA Ernest Hilgard Award for Career Contributions for General Psychology in 2010. The Drs. Nicholas and Dorothy Cummings Center for the History of Psychology hosts the annual Ludy T. Benjamin Jr. Lecture each May at the University of Akron.\n\nBenjamin's research as a historian of American psychology has focused on the metamorphosis of psychology from philosophical discourse to laboratory science. He has written about the establishment of the earliest of the psychology laboratories, about the development of the early psychological organizations and how those fostered the agenda of the new experimental psychology, about the initial applications of experimental psychology to education, business, and clinical practice, and about the ways in which psychologists sought to inform the American public about their science.\nBenjamin's biography of Harry Kirke Wolfe (1858-1918), the second of Wundt's American graduates, documented the struggles of the early psychology laboratories in battling the more established sciences in American universities. That book was nominated for both of the top prizes awarded by the History of Science Society. Benjamin has also written on other Wundt doctorates in America. His research, based on archival records at the University of Leipzig, produced the first comprehensive treatment of Wundt's American students and their subsequent careers.\n\nAs one of the markers of a scientific discipline, the early psychological organizations were key to the development of experimental psychology. Benjamin published the first archivally based histories of the Midwestern and Eastern Psychological Associations, which were founded in 1902 and 1903 respectively. He has also published articles and book chapters on the Psychological Round Table (a somewhat secret organization of experimental psychologists begun in 1936), the American Psychological Association, and Titchener's Experimentalists (precursor to the Society of Experimental Psychologists). Central to this work on organizational history is an understanding of the roles these societies played in the research careers and social and intellectual lives of those involved (and, in some cases, those who were excluded), and ultimately the role they played in shaping the course of American psychology.\n\nBenjamin has also published extensively on the beginnings of applied psychological research in business (e.g., his research on the early forays into advertising and product testing), education (e.g., work on child study and teaching machines), and clinical psychology. This work has documented the nineteenth century origins of applied psychology and its manifestation in a profession of psychology in the twentieth century. His book From Seance to Science: A History of the Profession of Psychology in America (coauthored with David Baker) was the first comprehensive history of professional psychology.\n\nFinally, Benjamin is one of the leading figures writing on the history of psychology's public image, focusing on public understanding of psychology and the ways in which psychologists have sought to convey the nature and importance of their science to the public and to distinguish it from the popular psychology so often embraced by the public. This work has emphasized the social context in America that shaped the interests of psychologists and in turn shaped America's understanding of and attitudes toward psychology.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31342131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31342131", "title": "Malbec World Day", "text": "Malbec World Day\n\nMalbec World Day is celebrated on April 17, to commemorate the day when president Domingo Faustino Sarmiento of Argentina officially made it his mission to transform Argentina's wine industry. On that day, back in 1853, he tasked Michel Aimé Pouget, a French soil expert, to bring over new vines. Amongst his selection, was Malbec. Pouget continued experimenting with the adaptation of French varietals to Argentina’s diverse terroirs. A decade later, France underwent a Phylloxera Plague that affected the Rhône region. The name, \"Malbec World Day\", translates from the Spanish \"Día Mundial del Malbec\" meaning \"Malbec throughout the world\". Somehow, the name stuck and continues to confuse English speakers to this day, as most just end up calling it \"World Malbec Day\", or \"Malbec Mondo\" for those who like the alliteration. In the mean time, Malbec flourished in Argentina creating wines widely superior to those of its country of origin. Many decades later, in 1956, France faced another obstacle: a freeze wiped out the majority of Malbec vineyards.\n\nIn the following years, specifically during the '90s, Argentina positioned Malbec as their star varietal. More than 10.000 acres were planted and it became the undeniable leader of the country’s exportations. Wine lovers around the world, especially in the United States, discovered and praised Argentine Malbec.\n\nIn 2011, Wines of Argentina, responsible for communicating the Argentine wine brand around the world, established April 17 as Malbec World Day. Lis Clément, their Head of Marketing and Communications at the time, founded this day because she was convinced this celebration would help position Malbec as one of Argentina’s wine gems. Excellent quality, ever surprising and diverse, Argentina’s Malbec would lead the way to position Argentina as one of the main oenological centers of the world.\n\nNowadays, more than 60 cities around the world (coordinated by the Foreign Affairs Office of Argentina) host events around Malbec, Argentine food and lifestyle. Each year, a theme is created to link Malbec and Argentine culture. This framework allows every celebration to be creative and adapt to each country’s idiosyncrasy. Malbec was first planted in France, then reached its highest point of development in Argentina and is currently travelling the world over to manifest itself as one of the key players in the international wine industry.\n\nThe cities of New York City, Toronto and Ottawa simultaneously hosted \"crushing parties\" with Argentine grapes, with the intention of producing a special Malbec wine, which will be used for toasting at the 2012 edition of the Malbec World Day.\n\nOn Saturday, April 16, 2011, Wines of Argentina held a cocktail party at Tupungato Winelands for 150 people, who were there to toast with Malbec from three hot-air balloons floating at 30 meters of height.\n\nThe National Public Library was lit with burgundy lights and the Malbec World Day logotype.\n(April 14, 2011), Gary Vaynerchuk hosted a private VIP tasting on April 14, and the Tribeca Film Festival provided Argentine wines for the more than 130 events held in the framework of the festival.\n\nOn April 19, 2011, twelve Malbecs from different regions and various price segments were presented, combined with a menu by Master Sommelier Evan Goldstein.\n\nThe Cherry Blossom Festival (March 26 to April 10, 2011) presented Malbec wines at the 10\nevents that are part of the Festival.\n\nTastings and wine food pairings with iYellow Wine Club, a closing event at the National Arts Centre on April 19, 2011, with the presence of Argentine wine representatives and managers of city restaurants; and the promotion of Argentine Malbec wines in city restaurants during the week of April 17 to 23.\n\nArgentine Malbec was offered at special prices and there were tastings for guest of Ottawa Restaurants on April 16 and 17 with the collaboration of Wines of Argentina and the Argentine Embassy in Canada.\n\nTwo of the largest retailers in UK were promoting Argentine wines from the main regions: Salta, San Juan, Mendoza and Patagonia. Promotions, direct sales, internet and in-store sales and tastings were some of the activities.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "47260147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47260147", "title": "Medical malpractice", "text": "Medical malpractice\n\nMedical malpractice is a legal cause of action that occurs when a medical or health care professional deviates from standards in his or her profession, thereby causing injury to a patient.\n\nIn common law jurisdictions, medical malpractice liability is normally based on the laws of negligence.\n\nAlthough the laws of medical malpractice differ significantly between nations, as a broad general rule liability follows when a health care practitioner does not show a fair, reasonable and competent degree of skill when providing medical care to a patient. If a practitioner holds himself out as a specialist a higher degree of skill is required. Jurisdictions have also been increasingly receptive to claims based on informed consent, raised by patients who allege that they were not adequately informed of the risks of medical procedures before agreeing to treatment.\n\nAs laws vary by jurisdiction, the specific professionals who may be targeted by a medical malpractice action will vary depending upon where the action is filed. Among professionals that may be potentially liable under medical malpractice laws are,\n\nAmong the acts or omissions that may potentially support a medical malpractice claim are the failure to properly diagnose a disease or medical condition, the failure to provide appropriate treatment for a medical condition, and unreasonable delay in treating a diagnosed medical condition. In some jurisdictions a medical malpractice action may be allowed even without a mistake from the doctor, based upon principles of informed consent, where a patient was not informed of possible consequences of a course of treatment and would have declined the medical treatment had proper information been provided in advance.\n\nThe Supreme Court of the United Kingdom decided in 2018 that the duty of care extended to information given to patients by clerical staff. A patient at Croydon Health Services NHS Trust's emergency department suffered severe brain damage having been given misleading information by staff at reception. He was told that he would be seen by a doctor in four or five hours and left the hospital, when actually he would be seen inside 30 minutes by a triage nurse.\n\nIn many jurisdictions, a medical malpractice lawsuit is initiated officially by the filing and service of a summons and complaint. The parties subsequently engage in discovery,\" a process through which documents such as medical records are exchanged, and depositions are taken by parties involved in the lawsuit. A deposition involves the taking of statements made under oath about the case. Certain conversations are not discoverable due to issues of privilege, a legal protection against discovery, but most conversations between the parties and witnesses are discoverable.\n\nConsequences for patients and doctors vary by country.\nA no-fault system may provide compensation to people who have medical outcomes that are significantly worse than would be anticipated under the circumstances, or where there is proof of injury resulting from medical error, without regard to whether or not malpractice occurred. Some no fault systems are restricted to specific types of injury, such as a birth injury or vaccine injury.\n\nMedico-legal action across multiple countries is more common against male than female doctors (odds ratio of 2.45).\n\n"}
{"id": "48432599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48432599", "title": "Milo Hellman", "text": "Milo Hellman\n\nMilo Hellman (March 26, 1872 – May 11, 1947) was an American Orthodontist was an instructor at Angle School of Orthodontia and Chair of NYU Orthodontic Program. He is known for his contributions to the field of Orthodontia via his research on the relationship between teeth, jaws and face.\n\nDr. Hellman was born in Iași (\"pronounced\" Yash-ee), Romania in 1872 and moved to United States at the age of 16. In his teen years he joined the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra where he played flute. He earned his dental degree from Pennsylvania College of Dental Surgery 1905. He then started teaching at NYU Dental School and he also became a research associate in Physical Anthropology at the American Museum of Natural History. He studied how race affected characteristics of teeth and he also studied how evolution changed teeth, jaws and faces.\n\nDuring his teaching career at Angle School of Orthodontia, Dr. Hellman worked with Edward Angle, Raymond C. Osburn and learned about the relationship between teeth, jaws and face. Dr. Hellman has written over 100 articles which have been published in various journals. He was also a member of American Association of Mammalogists, American Association of Physical Anthropologists, American Ethnological Society, and a chartered member of the Society of Vertebrate Paleontology, the Society for the Study of Evolution, and the Society for the Study of Child Development.\n\nHe also participated in the Committee on Growth and Development, along with Edward Angle, during a Child Health and Protection Conference at White House in 1930. He also served as the Vice-President of New York Academcy Sciences from 1932-1933. In addition he served on the editorial board of Journal of Dental Research, Archives of Clinical and Oral Pathology, and Bulletin of the First District Dental Society, New York. He was awarded an Honorary degree of Doctor from University of Pennsylvania and University of Witwatersrand in 1933 and 1938 respectively.\n\nHe also served as the Chair of Orthodontics of NYU Orthodontic Program in 1930. American Association of Orthodontists established the Milo Hellman Research Award in 1958 after Dr. Hellman's contributions to the field of Orthodontics.\n\n"}
{"id": "28183978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28183978", "title": "Missouri Department of Social Services", "text": "Missouri Department of Social Services\n\nThe Missouri Department of Social Services (DSS) is a state agency of Missouri. It has its headquarters in the Broadway State Office Building in Jefferson City. The department operates the state's social services.\n\nMissouri Governor Mel Carnahan established the Family Investment Trust (FIT) in November 1993, which was changed to Family and Community Trust (FACT) by Governor Bob Holden in April 2001. FACT, which is housed within the Missouri Department of Social Services, is designed to lead a collaborative effort to improve the conditions of Missouri’s families and communities. It is also to encourage a collaborative effort among both private and public community entities to build local support systems.\n\nThe Department of Social Services partners with families and communities to protect children, rehabilitate youth and move families to self sufficiency so that Missourians can lead safe, healthy and productive lives. Administrative responsibility for agency activities rests with a department director appointed by the Governor with the advice and consent of the state Senate.\n\nAgency programs are managed through its functional divisions. The department maintains field offices in each Missouri county and in the City of St. Louis.\n\nTwenty-one Caring Community organizations were established around Missouri to implement this approach with six core results: parents working, children safe, children ready for school, children and families health, children and youth succeeding in school, and youth ready to enter the work force. FACT is the nonprofit corporation that governs the 21 partnerships. Funding to support this work comes from the state legislature through the Department of Social Services and is a combination of general revenue and a federal match.\n\nThere are currently 20 community partnerships across Missouri, including Area Resources for Community and Human Services (ARCHS) in St. Louis, Local Investment Commission (LINC) in Kansas City, and more. \nThe Family Support Division (FSD) exists to provide a continuum of support for families. FSD’s goal is to assist families in maintaining or improving their quality of life. FSD accomplishes this goal for the children and families of Missouri by providing the best possible services to the public.\n\nFSD services include: Income Maintenance programs, including the Food Stamp, Temporary Assistance and Medicaid programs; Rehabilitation Services for the Blind; and the Child Support program. Other programs include: Community Services Block Grant Programs; Low Income Home Energy Assistance; Refugee Resettlement; and Supplemental Nursing Care.\n\nThe Family Support Division (FSD) helps families by providing the following services:\n\nEstablish Paternity — FSD can help establish paternity (legal fatherhood) for children born to unmarried parents. If the parents are certain “dad” is the child’s father, all the parents need to do is sign an Affidavit Acknowledging Paternity. If the paternity of the child is uncertain, FSD can arrange for a paternity test. If the test shows the man to be the child’s father, FSD or the court may enter an order establishing paternity.\n\nEstablish Support Orders — FSD establishes child and medical support orders when a support order does not exist. When determining the amount of the child support payment, FSD staff use the child support guidelines established by the Missouri Supreme Court. The guidelines consider the income of both parents. The Missouri Child Support Amount Calculation Worksheet (Form 14) is used to calculate the child support amount.\n\nReview Support Orders - FSD also reviews existing child and medical support orders to determine if the orders should be changed. \n\nOn a Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) or MO HealthNet case, Child Support either performs a review on its own or at either parent’s request. On non-TANF cases, Child Support conducts reviews if requested.\n\nEnforce Support Orders — FSD helps families receive their child, medical and spousal support by:\n◾Withholding income (wages, Workers’ Compensation benefits, unemployment compensation benefits, etc.);\n◾Intercepting federal and state income tax refunds;\n◾Ordering employers to enroll noncustodial parents’ children in health care plans;\n◾Reporting noncustodial parents who owe past–due support to credit bureaus;\n◾Filing liens on personal and/or real property;\n◾Intercepting lottery winnings;\n◾Suspending licenses (drivers, recreational, professional);\n◾Asking the prosecuting attorney to file civil contempt or criminal non–support charges upon request by the applicant for services; and\n◾Working with other states to collect support when noncustodial parents live outside Missouri.\n\nWho is eligible for child support services?\n\nThe Missouri Family Support Division (FSD) is a state agency that provides child support services to:\n◾Custodial parents - parents who live with the children.\n◾Noncustodial parents - parents who do not live with the children.\n◾Custodians - relatives or non-relatives if the non-relative has legal custody or guardianship.\n◾Adult children - persons between the ages 18–21.\n◾Alleged fathers - men whose fatherhood is in question.\n◾The legal representative of the custodial parent’s/custodian’s estate when that person is deceased \n\nThe Children’s Division (CD) works in partnership with families, communities, the courts and other governmental entities toward assuring the safety, permanency, and well-being of Missouri’s children. The Division’s guiding principles are Protection, Partnership, Permanency, Practice Excellence, Prevention and Professionalism. The division works with all parties to safely maintain children in their homes whenever possible and to secure safe, permanent living arrangements when out-of-home placement is necessary. The Children’s Division administers the Child Abuse/Neglect Hotline, School Violence Hotline, Intensive In-Home Services, Family Centered Services, Adoption Services, Independent Living, Foster Care, Residential Licensing and preventive services including Early Head Start, Stay-at-Home Parent Program, Child Care Start-Up and Expansion Program, Child Care Subsidy, and other early childhood and early intervention strategies. The division is responsible for the assessment and investigation of all reports to the Child Abuse/Neglect Hotline.\nThe MO HealthNet Division (MHD) administers the MO HealthNet (Missouri Medicaid) program. MO HealthNet provides medical services to eligible participants within defined program benefits in somewhat the same way insurance companies provide coverage for their policyholders. The services provided include those required by the federal government such as hospital and physician services. Also included are optional services such as pharmaceutical and personal care services authorized by the Missouri General Assembly and identified in state statute. A mandatory Medicaid managed care program is in place for eligible participants in the eastern, central, and western areas of the state. Children, pregnant women, TANF families, and children in state custody receive their medical care through managed care organizations, allowing the state to ensure access to health care and control costs at the same time. \n\nThe MO HealthNet Pharmacy Program oversees outpatient prescription drug reimbursement. The pharmacy benefit includes reimbursement for all drug products of manufacturers who have entered into a rebate agree with the Federal Department of Health and Human Services and that are dispensed by qualified providers, with few therapeutic category exclusions. In addition, MHD is responsible for program development, benefit design and clinical policy decision-making with activities oriented towards wellness and continuum of care. The MO HealthNet program includes specialized services for specific populations within the state by receiving waiver authority from the federal government. Home and community-based waivers for the elderly, certain developmentally disabled participants, as well as patients with AIDS were obtained and allow the MO HealthNet program to pay for otherwise non-covered home care as an alternative to more expensive institutional care. These services are restricted to those participants who would otherwise require, and whose home care is no more expensive than, institutionalization.\n\nThe Division of Youth Services’ (DYS) mission is to protect communities from juvenile offenders in the division’s care and custody and to provide appropriate services to youth and their families. This balanced approach to juvenile justice relies on community partnerships for the development and enhancement of services for the prevention of delinquency. DYS programs are established to provide the mandated services enumerated in Chapter 219.016 in the Revised Statutes of the state of Missouri. These services include assessment, care and treatment, and education of all youth committed to its care. DYS is charged with the care and treatment of youth committed to its custody by one of the 45 Missouri juvenile courts. Towards this end, DYS operates treatment programs ranging from non-residential day treatment centers through secure residential institutions. Additionally, DYS administers the Interstate Compact on Juveniles, operates an accredited school program, and maintains a statewide statistical database of juvenile court referrals. DYS is administratively organized into one central office and five regional offices.\n\n"}
{"id": "37975879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37975879", "title": "National Institute of Food Technology Entrepreneurship and Management", "text": "National Institute of Food Technology Entrepreneurship and Management\n\nThe National Institute of Food Technology Entrepreneurship and Management (NIFTEM) is a public research university located in Sonipat district of Haryana. Founded in 2006, the institute is traditionally known for its undergraduate and postgraduate programmes in food engineering. The institute also offers management programmes. It was formed to cater the needs of rapidly growing food industries of India. Dr. Chindi Vasudevappa is the current vice chancellor of this institute.\n\nNIFTEM is established at Plot No. 97, Sector 56, Phase IV & V, HSIIDC Industrial Estate Kundli, District Sonipat, Haryana, as an international center of excellence to cater to the needs of various stakeholders such as entrepreneurs, industry, exporters, policy makers, government and existing institution.\n\nCross Sectoral theme centers would work closely with the other theme centers. These include:\nEach theme center would be headed by a Professor known for his expertise in that particular field, have Associate and Assistant Professors assisted by staff (such as research associates, administrative assistants). The theme centers would have visiting faculty members from international institutions or industry to undertake full-time courses. The Head, Professors and visiting faculty in the theme center would be involved in teaching as well as research. They would be chosen on the basis of their expertise, interest, and active research programs in areas pertinent to food science.\n\nNCD has a panel of consultants who are qualified to undertake assignments in:\n\n"}
{"id": "21116154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21116154", "title": "National Vaccine Program Office", "text": "National Vaccine Program Office\n\nThe National Vaccine Program Office (NVPO) is an office of the United States Department of Health and Human Services that plays a role in the coordination of vaccine policy.\n\nIt was established by the National Childhood Vaccine Injury Act.\n\n"}
{"id": "32013833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32013833", "title": "Nicholson challenge", "text": "Nicholson challenge\n\nThe term \"Nicholson challenge\" refers to a set of mandates that the former (2006-2012) leader of the National Health Service in England, Sir David Nicholson, has put forth to the entirety of the NHS in a drive to find \"efficiency savings\" amidst a UK economy in upheaval.\n\nThe parameters of the \"challenge\" by Nicholson to the NHS collectively add up to a demand by Nicholson for the NHS to find £20 billion in \"efficiency savings\" by 2015. The claim is that better ways of working rather than more spending must be found, amidst a warning that if the challenge were not met, either more money would be needed or fewer desirable results would be achieved.\n\nThe Health and Social Care Bill 2011's provisions, which greatly alter the fundamentals of NHS \"functioning\" (not just financing), is technically not a part of this \"challenge\" at all, but is happening separately. The Nicholson challenge keeps NHS law and regulations as they have been prior to the Health And Social Care Bill's passage, but asks staff and administrators to find these \"savings\" within those present parameters nevertheless.\n\nDoctors and nurses across the NHS already complained early in 2011 that front-line NHS services of many different types were having to be cut immediately, and very heavily, in order to achieve these \"savings\", despite Nicholson alleging that they would not have to be. NHS workers still insist, up to the present day, that it is impossible to find these types of 'savings' in this amount of time without having to make drastic cutbacks to existing services. Even a late-March 2012 news article dealing with the risk register of the Health and Social Care Bill 2011 found fit to mention a few lines about the Nicholson Challenge's £20bn target, mentioning that in the 2010-dated risk register, \"Civil servants ... rate highly the danger that the £20bn savings may not materialise as managers lose focus and ... quality of patient care suffers\", even though \"Ministers [today in 2012 say] that a report to be published on Tuesday shows that the NHS is on course to meet the so called \"Nicholson challenge\" to save £20bn over the course of this parliament.\"\n\nOn 18 October 2011, the allegations by doctors and nurses of a direct and immediate decline in care as a result of the Nicholson Challenge was backed up by research when \"The Guardian\" published an exposé revealing how the Nicholson Challenge is \"really affecting the young, old and infirm\".\n\nThe BBC released a 3 February 2012 article stating that twelve London hospital trusts were already \"not financially viable\" to withstand the pressures of current cost-saving measures plus the ultimate goals cited by the Nicholson Challenge. The article reports that those with knowledge of these trusts' financial performance allege that to remain viable the local total collection of 18 area hospital trusts alone would have to make a total of £1.2bn in efficiency savings by 2015 including £421m in nursing cuts.\n\nOn 10 February 2012, \"The Independent\" reported that the NHS spent £195 million on redundancy payments in 2010/11 and expected to spend £616.6 million on these payments in 2011/12. It is estimated that between 9,100 and 16,800 staff will be made redundant; apparently, these costs are accounted for in the £20 billion savings target of the Nicholson Challenge.\n\nOn 4 July 2012, \"The Guardian\" reported that the Institute for Fiscal Studies has been saying that the NHS will need to find \"an extra £20bn a year by 2020\" — a figure the IFS itself essentially admits is ironic given that the Nicholson Challenge's £20bn in 'savings' is meant to be completed by 5 years prior to that point, in 2015. The article states that the IFS reports that \"England's NHS budget squeeze [from the Nicholson Challenge] is already the \"tightest four-year period for the last 50 years\". NHS spending will be essentially flat in real terms - at about £110bn a year - until 2015.\" Because of these shifts and the long-term financial hardship the IFS is saying these circumstances will cause, the IFS suggests in its report that from 2015 through 2020 a solution the NHS might have to consider could include \"...a mixture of charging, tax rises and perhaps even greater borrowing\". If what the IFS alleges becomes actual government policy, then it will be thereafter be unclear how either the government or the NHS would be able to reconcile the instituting of monetary charges from patients with the first fundamental NHS pillar, in place since its founding in 1948, which insists unequivocally that the NHS must be, and must remain, \"free at the point of use\".\n\nDefenders of the \"challenge\", such as James Ball of \"The Daily Telegraph\", point out that health service finance directors had already been fully aware, since the summer of 2009, of the kind of constraints that would have to be dealt with because of the UK deficit crisis. Nicholson first signalled his challenge in June 2009 while the UK government was under the previous administration, that of Gordon Brown and the policy received the full support of the then Secretary of State Andy Burnham.\n\nIn September 2012 the Guardian revealed a commercial sector report which, with significant irony, estimated that private companies can expect to benefit from £20 billion worth of income from the privatisation of health services resulting from the Health and Social Care Act 2012\n\n"}
{"id": "21090292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21090292", "title": "Nursing in the Philippines", "text": "Nursing in the Philippines\n\nThe history of nursing in the Philippines stems from the caregiving provided by women, priests, and herb doctors during precolonial Philippines. This trend continued during the Spanish colonial era, although women did not have much opportunity to be formally educated in schools because only a limited number of Filipino women received primary education in charitable institutions established by Spaniards. During the Philippine revolution, Filipino women also became the providers of care for wounded revolutionaries. During the American period in the Philippines, Filipino women were given the chance to become educated as nurses, guided by their American nurse and missionary mentors, until nursing became a full-pledged profession in the Philippines, a professional career not only for modern-day women in the country but also for men in the Philippines (as male nurses).\n\nThe advance of nursing in the Philippines as a career was pioneered by a culture of care which was intrinsic in the Filipino people. This was also the case even before Spanish colonization in communities. The way the health system was delivered also evolved.\n\nEarly beliefs of health and illness in the Philippines were in conjunction with beliefs of mysticism and superstitions. The cause of a disease was believed to be either another person, who was an enemy, or a witch, or evil spirits. Filipinos were careful not to upset other people or the evil spirits for the good of their health. These evil spirits could be driven away by people with the power to banish demons: priests or herb doctors. Filipinos who became sick were usually cared for by their female family members or friends in the home.\n\nPeople thought health was directly related to many superstitions and legends. Back then, there were no medical professionals but men known to practice magic and the supernatural. These herb men were known as “herbicheros.” Victims who suffered from unidentified illnesses were thought to be cursed by witches and wizards known as “mangkukulam/mangagaway.” Dangerous birthing and “pamao” were thought to come from “nunos”. While in labor, the “mabuting hilot” (good midwife) was usually present. If the birth became too dangerous, bad omens and evil sorcerers were thought to be the cause. Exploding gunpowder from a bamboo cane near the head of the person going through the suffering would usually get rid of the bad omen.\n\nDuring Spain's colonial rule (1521-1898) the Philippine education system offered distinct and unequal opportunities for Filipinos based on gender. An example of this sexism was allowing only limited numbers of women to receive primary education in Spanish charitable institutions. Without an education women were unable to gain much knowledge or power. The knowledge of caring for others came from family members and personal experience with the sick. Nursing other individuals was seen as a task, not a job or a profession. During the Spanish regime many specialized hospitals were established to care for the Spanish king’s soldiers and civilians. To many elite Filipinos, the Spanish colonial hospitals were places where those who were not so fortunate to have homes, spent their last days until death.\n\nAt the time of the Philippine Revolution many women transformed their homes into quarters to nurse Filipino soldiers and revolutionaries. One of these women was Melchora Aquino, also known as the \"mother of the Philippine Revolution\". In her old age of about 80, Aquino was a supporter of the revolution by providing food and shelter to the revolutionists. She provided care for those who became sick or wounded. However, a few days after the revolution began, she was arrested by the Spaniards for providing care to the rebels. Because she did not reveal any information to the Spanish about the location of the rebel leader, Aquino was deported to Guam in the Marianas. After six years of exile, she was able to return in 1903, when the Philippines finally gained independence from the Americans. Aquino’s work caring for the ill and the wounded during the revolution has brought comparisons to the British Florence Nightingale. Both these women cared for soldiers during war and paved the way for nursing practice.\n\nAlthough the Philippines had gained independence from Spain, the United States began to instill their power upon the islands, and a conflict broke out between the Filipinos and the Americans. This was the start of the Philippine–American War. The presence of Americans played a vital role in influencing the development of nursing into a profession. Nurses and missionaries from the United States came to act as nurse mentors for the Filipina women. Nursing education, like teaching and missionary work in the Philippines, provided white American women with a sense of purpose in the colony. This influence then continued with the building of many hospitals where American nurses took charge and Filipino women began to learn under careful eyes. \n\nAn example of this was the development of the Iloilo Mission Hospital. In 1901, through the efforts of Dr. and Mrs. Andrew J. Hall, missionaries of the Presbyterian Foreign Mission Board from the United States, a temporary bamboo clinic was erected at Calle Amparo (now Ledesma Street), Iloilo City, to serve as a venue for the treatment of health care to the very poor. This was made possible because Andrew Hall was a doctor and his wife was a nurse. Like other professions, nursing in the Philippines evolved only from the apprenticeship system.\n\nThis system laid the foundation upon which the Union Mission Hospital Training School for Nurses (now Central Philippine University College of Nursing) was built in 1906. Between the time that this school was built and the time that the Philippines gained their independence from US colonial rule in 1946, the nursing profession continued to grow with the development of more nursing schools and more Filipina women seeking to become nurses. While taking advantage of these learning opportunities Filipinos began to learn more about the United States and the opportunities that the country could hold for them, such as extending their education and increased pay. This began the migration of nurses to the US. As individuals began travelling to and from the US, the stories they brought home began to spark the interest of others to follow.\n\nAfter World War II, when Manuel Roxas assumed the presidency of the Republic of the Philippines on July 4, 1946, it officially marked the end of the colonialism between the US and the Philippines. Like much of the rest of the world, the Philippine islands were in ruins and Roxas was determined to rebuild his country. He made it clear to his constituents that the new government was still going to rely heavily on US financial support in order to rehabilitate its national economy. Roxas’ first attempts to balance the Philippines' budget included collecting unpaid taxes, reducing expenses and promoting foreign trade, which would include the exportation of Filipino nurses. Already trained by Americans, Filipino nurses were the perfect candidates to assist the US and other countries experiencing post-World War II shortages. At the time in the Philippines there were also rumors of a nursing shortage; however, this was questionable, due to the expanding health programs, inefficient use of nurses' time and skills, and loss of qualified nurses to other countries. By the mid-1960s, Filipino nurses were entering the US by the thousands. \nThe benefit to the travelling nurses was that they were able to make nearly 20 times as much as they had earned back home. Part of this money would be sent back to their families as remittance, which would boost the Philippine economy. A negative effect of the high exportation rate was that the nurses were adding to their own country's nursing shortage problem. The Philippines also faced losing one of its greatest sources of social capital: educated workers. The negative effects were also seen in the US, as American salaries decreased because Philippine nurses who newly arrive would work the same job at a lower wage.\n\nMany US states passed reforms in licensure for nurses. Decreased training mandates were created, as well as stricter adequacies for getting into a nursing institution. For instance, one prerequisite was at least one year of high school education. The idea of having students work in a more active role prior to seeing patients was a new idea that was beginning to pay off.\n\nIn the Philippines, it was also the early 1900s when the first school for nursing was established. The program of study was still shattered and unclear. Only a few students were enrolled informally in this kind of education. A legislation or law was needed at the time, contributing to the establishment of the \"First True Nursing Law\" in 1919.\n\nThe Philippines is the leader in exporting nurses to meet the demands of the United States and other developed nations. It has been argued, however, that the Philippines' persistent production of nurses for the global market is a state strategy to develop an export industry for economic development. Things such as immigration services and nursing licensing authorities encourage the production of nurses for export.\n\nOf all registered health practitioners, nurses are among the largest group, even though there are very few nursing positions or jobs available to them. Only 15-25% of jobs in the Philippines are provided for the nursing population. The remainder of the work force go on to seek out other professional career opportunities outside the country. Per year, the national government has approximately 18,000 nursing positions with an eventual turnover of 1,000 careers. The increase of Filipino nurses overseas has attracted the curiosity of other countries to better understand nursing in the Philippines and what makes Filipino nurses accommodating.\n\nThe first two years of general education is grounded on liberal arts that strengthen the values and character of the person as a caregiver. The language of instruction in all local institutions is English. This prepares the student for licensure both locally and internationally. This also gives the nurses access to ever-growing literature in the health sciences. The community skills, competence and confidence in the use of English certainly contribute to healthcare in any setting. The curriculum also strengthens the students' capabilities to participate in research in nursing and other health sciences, provides flexibility in the openness to the use of new teaching approaches, and encourages active involvement in extension work that reaches out to the other sectors.\nAll registered nurses in the Philippines are required to have a bachelor's degree in nursing.\n\nThe first pursuit to constitute the nursing practice was made by the Director of Health in 1913, but was not officially enacted upon by the Filipino legislature. In 1915, Act No. 2493 was made known; this amended Gov Ph Act 310 so nursing could be practiced. This law allowed \"for the registration of graduate nurses under the Bureau of Health\" (Philippines). Pre-qualifications were not mandatory in order to become an RN since nurses simply signed up. Each candidate, however, needed to be at least 20 years of age at the time of sign up, and be of adequate health and upstanding character. A law that allowed the practice of nursing was reformed in April 1919. Act 2808, also known as \"the First True Nursing Law\", established the Board of Examiners for Nurses. The first board exam for nurses was given in 1920.\n\nToday, nurses must acquire their degrees through a combination of competency-based and community-oriented courses. The Philippine curriculum has several advantages compared with those of other Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) institutions. This kind of education offers much more than a solely skill-based curriculum can (Rogado 229). The four-year requirement to earn a bachelor's degree in nursing meets the minimum entry requirement for professional nursing practice.\n\nThe Professional Regulation Commission (PRC) oversees the licensing of registered nurses as authorized by the Philippine Nursing Act of 2002.\n\nThe Professional Regulatory Nursing Board implements and enforces the Nursing Act. The board is composed of a chairperson and six additional members, all of whom are nurses with at least a master's degree and ten years of nursing experience. The board inspects nursing schools, conducts licensure examinations, issues and monitors certificates of licensure, promulgates a code of ethics, participates in recognizing nursing specialty organizations, and prescribes guidelines and regulations governing the profession under the Nursing Act.\n\nIn 2009, the Commission on Higher Education of the Philippines released a report showing the top 20 nursing schools in the country, based on the average passing rates on nursing board examinations. The top 20 nursing schools in the Philippines with 1000 or more examinees are the following: \n\n\nFor schools with 100 to 999 exam takers, the following are the top 20 nursing schools in the Philippines\n\n\nOnly three schools had a 100% passing rate (with 10 or more examinees) from November 2009 to July 2011: University of the Philippines Manila, Philippine Christian University, and Negros Oriental State University.\n\n"}
{"id": "43092217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43092217", "title": "Platelet-rich fibrin", "text": "Platelet-rich fibrin\n\nPlatelet-rich fibrin (PRF) or leucocyte- and platelet-rich fibrin (L-PRF) is a second-generation PRP where autologous platelets and leucocytes are present in a complex fibrin matrix to accelerate the healing of soft and hard tissue and is used as a tissue-engineering scaffold for endodontics. To obtain PRF, required quantity of blood is drawn quickly into test tubes without an anticoagulant and centrifuged immediately. Blood can be centrifuged using a tabletop centrifuge for at least 10 min at 3000 revolution per minute. The resultant product consists of the following three layers; topmost layer consisting of platelet poor plasma, PRF clot in the middle, and red blood cells at the bottom. PRF is available as a fibrin clot. PRF clot can be removed from the test tube using a sterile tweezer-like instrument. After lifting, the RBC layer attached to the PRF clot can be carefully removed using a sterilized scissor. Platelet activation in response to tissue damage occurs during the process of making PRF release several biologically active proteins including; platelet alpha granules, platelet‑derived growth factor (PGDF), transforming growth factors‑β (TGF‑β), vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), and epidermal growth factor. Actually the platelets and leukocyte cytokines are important part in role play of this biomaterial, but the fibrin matrix supporting them is very helpful in constituting the determining elements responsible for real therapeutic potential of PRF. Cytokines are immediately used and destroyed in a healing wound. The harmony between cytokines and their supporting fibrin matrix has much more unique importance than any other platelet derivatives.\n\nSocket preservation, a procedure to reduce bone loss after tooth extraction to preserve the dental alveolus (tooth socket) in the alveolar bone. A platelet-rich fibrin (PRF) membrane containing bone growth enhancing elements can be stitched over the wound or a graft material or scaffold is placed in the socket of an extracted tooth at the time of extraction. The socket is then directly closed with stitches or covered with a non-resorbable or resorbable membrane and sutured.\n\nA platelet-rich fibrin can be used if a sinus lift is required for a dental implant.\n\nReproduction or reconstitution of a lost or injured part to restore the architecture and function of the periodontium becomes the integral part of comprehensive periodontal therapy. Conventional open flap debridement falls short of regenerating tissues destroyed by the disease. Platelet derived growth factor along with bone morphogenetic proteins are among the most researched growth factors in periodontal regeneration. Platelet rich fibrin showed significant improvement in clinical periodontal parameter as well as in radiograph when compared with open flap debridement alone in a meta analysis. Several bone graft materials have been used in the treatment of infrabony defects. Demineralized freeze dried bone allograft (DFDBA) has been histologically proven to be the material of choice for regeneration. Platelet-rich fibrin has shown significant results comparable to DFDBA for periodontal regeneration. One of the most common aesthetic problem encountered in the field of periodontology is gingival recession, which is, perceived by the patients as increase in length of teeth. Though connective tissue graft is a gold standard procedure, PRF can be used as an alternative procedure by keeping patient's comfort in mind.\n\nPRF is used in guided bone and tissue regeneration.\n\nPRF enhances alveolar bone augmentation and necrotic dental pulp and open tooth apex can be revitalized in regenerative endodontics with platelet-rich fibrin.\n\n"}
{"id": "54711372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54711372", "title": "Postpartum physiological changes", "text": "Postpartum physiological changes\n\nThe postpartum physiological changes are those expected changes that occur to the woman's body after childbirth, in the postpartum period. These changes mark the beginning of the return of pre-pregnancy physiology and of breastfeeding. Most of the time these postnatal changes are normal and can be managed with medication and comfort measures, but in a few situations complications may develop. Postpartum physiological changes may be different for women delivering by cesarean section. Other postpartum changes, may indicate developing complications such as, postpartum bleeding, engorged breasts, postpartum infections.\n\nThe physiological changes that occurred earlier in the pregnancy that prepared the breast for lactation become altered after the birth. About 2 to 5 days after the birth the breasts begin to produce milk. This sometimes is described as \"the milk coming in\". Information can be provided to the mother before the birth to enhance the understanding of breastfeeding and the support that will be available to make it successful. The mother is encouraged to breastfeed and spend time bonding with her infant immediately after the birth. Sucking causes the pituitary to release oxytocin that to contract the uterus and prevent bleeding. Progesterone is the hormone that influences the growth of breast tissue before the birth. The postpartum changes that occur in the endocrine system after the birth shift from hormones that prevent lactation to hormones that trigger milk production. This can be felt by the mother in the breasts. The crying of the infant can induce the release of oxytocin from the pituitary gland. Cracked nipples can develop at this time and is managed with pharmacological and nonpharmacological treatment.\n\nThe most drastic change in the uterus is the contraction from an organ weighing one kilogram and a volume of about 10-L down to a 60 gram organ that only contains 5ml of fluid. Immediately after delivery, the fundus of the uterus begins to contract. This is to deliver the placenta which can take up to 30 minutes and may involve a feeling of chills. In a normal and healthy response it should feel firm and not boggy. It begins to involute with contractions of the smooth muscle of the uterus. It will contract midline with the umbilicus. It begins its contractions and by twelve hours after the birth it can be felt to be at the level of the umbilicus. The uterus changes in size from one kilogram to 60 -80 grams in the space of six weeks. After birth, the fundus contracts downward into the pelvis one centimeter each day. After two weeks the uterus will have contracted and return into the pelvis. The sensation and strength of postpartum uterine contractions can be stronger in women who have previously delivered a child or children.\n\nThe cervix remains soft after birth. The vagina contracts and begins to return to the size before pregnancy. For four to six weeks of the postpartum period the vagina will discharge lochia, a discharge containing blood, mucus, and uterine tissue.\n\nDuring pregnancy the normal inflammatory immune response is shut down in order to allow the acceptance of the embryo to the body. In the postpartum period this needs to be quickly reversed back to normal. This immune reconstitution can result in the symptomatic expression of infections that were present but previously not responded to, especially infections with an autoimmune basis.\n\nEducation and discussion before the birth can alleviate some of the fear of the unknown and the anxiety when treatments are experienced for the first time. Providing continuous updates on the status of the infant is beneficial.\n\nPerineal pain after childbirth has immediate and long-term negative effects for women and their babies. These effects can interfere with breastfeeding and the care of the infant. The pain from injection sites and possible episiotomy is managed by the frequent assessment of the report of pain from the mother. Pain can come from possible lacerations, incisions, uterine contractions and sore nipples. Appropriate medications are usually administered. Routine episiotomies have not been found to reduce the level of pain after the birth. Comfort is enhanced with changing linens, urination, the cleaning of the perineum and ice packs. Privacy also in implemented to promote comfort.\n\nHemorrhoid pain can be managed with a variety of methods. Some recommendations for reducing the pain of hemorrhoids include: cleansing with warm water, hemorrhoid creams, increasing fluids, lying on the site and sitz baths.\n\nMedications controlling pain will begin to wear off. This also true when an epidural or spinal block was given. Uterine contractions are sometimes painful and comfort can be promoted by suggesting that different positions can be tried. Walking around, with assistance, can decrease pain. Since uterine cramping may become more painful during breastfeeding, medications can be given a half an hour before nursing. Pain control and comfort can be managed by anticipating the return of sensation and bodily reactions to bruises, tears, incisions and puncture sites.\n\nImmediately after the birth, on going assessments are performed with recommendations from the American Academy of Pediatrics and American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists. They have identified that vital signs of blood pressure, and pulse, uterine position, and bleeding should be assessed every 15 minutes for the first two hours after birth. The temperature is then measured twice, four hours and eight hours after birth.\n\nThe caloric needs will changed based upon the production of milk for the infant. The caloric requirement for a non-breastfeeding, non-pregnant woman changes from 1,000-2,000 kcal/day to 2,300 to 2500 kcal/day for the breastfeeding woman. Nutritional supplementation is often prescribed and recommended. In some instances women are encouraged to continue to take pre-natal vitamins. Increasing the intake of fluids is discussed. The need for additional levels of minerals are mostly likely due to lactation. Calcium and iron needs increase postpartum. Calories may need to increase by 333 kcal/day during the first four to six weeks postpartum and then by 400 kcal/day 6 months postpartum.\n\nOther foods or substances are not recommended postpartum if breastfeeding because they may have affects on the baby via breastmilk. Some clinicians discourage the use of caffeine. This could produce fussiness in the baby. Alcohol use is strongly discouraged. Consuming fish is healthy and provides vitamins, minerals and proteins. Consumption of oily fish like haddock, herring, sardines, grouper,and tuna may need to be limited due to pollutants.\n\nWeight loss should be monitored to ensure recovery. Quick weight loss can reduce milk supply. Low carb and high protein diets may not be appropriate. A realistic weight loss goal is one pound per week.\n\nA urinary catheter is usually put in place before the cesarean section to prevent urinary retention. The abdominal incision will be another site for pain and possible infection. Moving out of bed may be delayed. As with any surgical procedure, the risk is higher for the development of blood clots in the legs. In these cases intermittent a pneumatic pressure device may be used or more simple compression stockings. Leg exercise will also be effective in promoting blood circulation in the legs. Higher levels of pain medication may be needed related to abdominal incisions. If the cesarean was not planned, some women will be disappointed and may benefit from encouraging counsel from clinicians.\n\n"}
{"id": "29410361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29410361", "title": "Promtov's sign", "text": "Promtov's sign\n\nPromtov's sign, also known as \"Promtov's symptom\" or \"Promptov symptom\" is diagnostic symptom in gynecology.\n\nIn case of Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (PID), performing a bimanual gynecological examination is painful for patient. The patient during the examination complains of pain in the lower abdomen. In this case, patient symptoms is then called \"Promtov positive\". \n\nPain is caused by adhesions of connective tissue in the lower abdomen, which in turn is caused by inflammation (mostly chronic) in the lower abdomen (PID). It might be a consequence of STD, which is usually the case. Another possible course is endometriosis, then the patient might also complain of strong abdominal pains during menstruation. In endometrosis, adhesions are caused by aseptic inflammation.\n\n"}
{"id": "36272600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36272600", "title": "Rainwater harvesting in the United Kingdom", "text": "Rainwater harvesting in the United Kingdom\n\nRainwater harvesting (RWH) is a practice of growing importance in the United Kingdom, particularly in the South East of England where there is less water available per person than in many Mediterranean countries. Rainwater harvesting in the UK is both a traditional and reviving technique for collecting water for domestic uses. This water is generally used for non-hygienic purposes like watering gardens, flushing toilets, and washing clothes. There is a growing demand for larger tank systems collecting between 1000-7500 litres of water. The two main uses for harvested rainwater are botanical uses, like gardening for plant irrigation, and domestic uses, like flushing toilets and running washing machines. Rainwater is almost always collected strictly from the roof, then heavily filtered using either a filter attached to the down pipe, a fine basket filter or for more expensive systems like self-cleaning filters placed in an underground tank. UK homes using some form of rainwater harvesting system can reduce their mains water usage by 50% or more, although a 20-30% saving is more common.\n\nPrior to the widespread use of water mains, RWH was a traditional means of getting water in the UK. Even as far back as the 2nd-century AD, archaeological evidence shows that rainwater harvesting was being used by Housesteads Roman Fort in Northumberland as a way to flush the latrines. English castles from the 12th and 13th-century also have notable rainwater harvesting systems, such as Carreg Cennen, Orford, and Warkworth Castle.\n\nIn the 19th and the early 20th century, prior to widespread access to water mains, most large middle-class homes got their drinking water from springs and wells, but this water was usually hard which made it unsuitable for washing. Thus, such homes were usually designed to also harvest rainwater to be used in washing. During the interwar period, houses in hard water areas were sometimes built with rainwater storage tanks forming the roof of a scullery. Rainwater was led down to a third tap for washing purposes.\nRainwater harvesting declined in popularity as water mains became more widespread through the early 20th century onwards.\n\nIn recent years, rainwater harvesting has become more common due to increasing water prices. While rainwater harvesting has been employed in high-profile facilities like the velodrome of the London Olympic Park, the UK's ongoing revival has lagged behind other countries such as Germany (the present world leader in modern rainwater harvesting). At present, only about 400 RWH systems are installed in the UK every year.\n\nSome large retail developments are now incorporating rainwater harvesting even in some of the wetter parts of the UK.\n\nRainwater harvesting was being encouraged by the government of the UK through the Code for Sustainable Homes. The code ranked homes on a scale of one through six and requires new homes to have a score of at least three. One way to raise the score of a newly designed home is to incorporate a rainwater harvesting system. The code was revoked in 2015.\n\nThe Environment Agency has noted that water resources in the UK are under increasing pressure because of the growing population. In addition, the agency has warned that the South East of England is facing more serious water scarcity than anywhere else in England or Wales, such that the per-capita water supply is lower than many Mediterranean countries. The agency encourages a two-pronged approach to both reduce demand and increase supply, such as through the use of rainwater harvesting. However, there is a fundamental mismatch between supply and demand; the areas of the UK suffering water scarcity are in most cases also areas with low rainfall, which means the economics of installing a domestic RWH system are less favourable. The environmental impacts of domestic RWH systems in energy terms are questioned since the water supply accounts for a very small proportion of total energy use (approximately 4%). For a UK household, the CO impact of supplying water to the house is around 100g of CO per day, around 1/600th of your total daily impact. However, in countries without widespread mains water supplies, or where the environmental impact of mains water is very high, RWH may have more merit.\n\nThe installation of rainwater harvesting systems in the UK should be done according to the Water Supply (Water Fittings) Regulations and BS8515, in order to ensure safety. BS8515 also provides details on how to size the storage tank and allows estimation of the potential water savings. If you install a RWH system, you will need to inform your water company.\n\nRainwater harvesting at large scale may well be appropriate for farms as part of a catchment management strategy to decrease flood risk and diffuse pollution.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6758983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6758983", "title": "Ramakrishna Mission Vidyapith, Purulia", "text": "Ramakrishna Mission Vidyapith, Purulia\n\nRamakrishna Mission Vidyapith, Purulia, India, is a branch of the Ramakrishna Mission. It is a residential school for boys running under the Gurukul system. It was founded by Swami Hiranmayananda in 1957. The then chief minister of West Bengal requested Ramakrishna Mission to establish an educational institution in Purulia.\n\n"}
{"id": "25219865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25219865", "title": "Recreational drug use in Kenya", "text": "Recreational drug use in Kenya\n\nDrug abuse is a major issue in Kenya, especially in the city of Mombasa and especially among men in their early 20s. Women in Mombasa have held public protests, asking for better enforcement of the laws against narcotics. In Mombasa and Kilindini, there are approximately 40 \"maskani\" (\"location\" in Swahili) where drug abusers meet to share drugs. The traditional recreational drug of choice is cannabis, but heroin injection is becoming increasingly popular. In a survey, 70 percent of recreational drug users said they were using heroin.\n\nThe research estimates Kenya's unemployment rate is at 40%, the 14th-highest among the 200 countries with unemployment figures. With the average Kenyan dropping out of school after 10 years this leaves many youths without productive uses for their time.\n\nPeer pressure is a major factor contributing towards drug abuse. Many addicts have admitted that they started using drugs because it was popular among their friends. There is also a high probability that many of the beach boys are using drugs so that they can be able to face their clients in a smart way.\n\nIt is suspected that a common reason for drug use is spiritual practises. A recent study found that many young men used drugs because they believed that ghosts could not haunt the men when they were high.\nThe CIA World Factbook indicates that roughly 10% of Kenyans hold religious beliefs indigenous to the area, although it does not document the extent to which these beliefs involve ghosts.\n\nMany people in Mombasa are concerned that if they walk alone they may be mugged by young men whose costly addiction has driven them to criminal careers.\n\nNeedle sharing contributes to the spread of HIV and other infectious diseases in Kenya, as does a phenomenon known as \"flashing blood\" where a heroin user will draw blood from himself to inject into a friend's bloodstream with the aim of transferring some of the heroin. Malnutrition increases many users' susceptibility.\n\nDrug abuse has slowed economic development in many parts of Mombasa, helping keep unemployment rates high and economic productivity low even among the users themselves. In addition, high crime rates discourage foreign investment.\n\nDrugs are reducing life expectancy for young people. Because so many young people die of diseases related to drug use, many are concerned that a population pyramid shift may leave too few people of working age to support the country's senior citizens.\n\n"}
{"id": "36492686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36492686", "title": "Relaxation drink", "text": "Relaxation drink\n\nA relaxation drink is a non-alcoholic beverage containing calming ingredients normally found in nature. It is a functional beverage which serves to calm a person but unlike other calming beverages such as tea, relaxation drinks almost universally contain more than one active ingredient. Relaxation drinks may be served chilled and carbonated. Others have now been introduced in shot-form.\n\nThe concept of relaxation drink first emerged from Japan in 2005 when a group of products were introduced to the market enriched with gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA). In 2007, a couple group of kitesurfers from Kāneʻohe Bay and Lanikai beach of O'ahu Hawai'i developed a drink which they dubbed the relaxation drink with their own formula containing gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), L-Theanine and L-Threonine providing similar calming effects found in kava or valerian roots (rhizo) which later became known as lanilai. \"Lani\" is a common Hawaiian word meaning 'sky' or 'heaven' and ' means 'calm after the storm', and hence ' carries the meaning of 'heavenly calm'. Kava roots are well known in the Pacific Islands and mostly grown in Tonga and Fiji. Kava is known to be used for social rituals and celebrations. Melatonin is another major ingredients found in relaxation drinks which also carry some controversy due to negative effects from long term use. Relaxation drinks have been known to contain other natural ingredients. Common ingredients in relaxation drinks may contain kava root, melatonin, valerian root, gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), Chamomile, Melissa officinalis, L-Theanine, L-Threonine, 5-Hydroxytryptophan or Passiflora. Relaxation drinks are usually free of caffeine and alcohol but some have claimed to contain marijuana.\n\nRelaxation drinks are formulated to help reduce stress, anxiety, improve focus, and promote better sleep. Relaxation drinks can be considered the anti-energy drink and have found a niche alongside energy drinks. Some relaxation shots, particularly those with L-theanine, have been known to be used alongside coffee as a way to counter some of the jittery-feeling caffeine can produce.\n\nIn many scenarios, people use relaxation drinks for dealing with stressful situations, after a work day, after strenuous exercise or before bed time. Further uses have also included aiding anxiety relief. Studies have found that ingredients found in relaxation drinks can help promote alpha wave brain wave patterns to improve focus. Depending on the formulation, relaxation drinks may promote Rapid eye movement sleep (REM) sleep.\n\nRelaxation drinks have been known to reduce stress, anxiety and calm nervousness due to their calming effects on the nervous system.\n\nPeople who are allergic to alcohol, recovering from alcohol abuse or have liver problems have resorted to drinking relaxation drinks because its ability to calm nerves and provides what people call a \"buzz\" however it is alcohol free which does not bring about the well known hangover. This is all dependent on the nutritional content which varies from one relaxation drink to another. There are reports of melatonin causing this next-day grogginess feeling.\n\nPeople with Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) have been known to use relaxation drinks to substitute for Dexedrine because of the properties to help focus thoughts. \n\nSome relaxation drinks can cause drowsiness and should not be taken while driving or operating heavy machinery.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55239820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55239820", "title": "Samuel Jacob Beck", "text": "Samuel Jacob Beck\n\nSamuel Jacob Beck (1896–1980) was an American psychologist who worked on personality assessment and the Rorschach test.\n\nHe graduated from Harvard in 1926 and then attended Columbia University where received his M.A. in 1927 and Ph.D. 1932. He received the Bruno Klopfer Award in 1965.\n\nHe was the first person in America to write a research paper on the Rorschach test, with a publication in 1930, and was a foremost expert on the topic. In 1947 he assisted Douglas Kelley in the interpretation of Rorschach test results from Nazi leaders taken by Kelley during the Nuremberg War Trials.\n"}
{"id": "24860076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24860076", "title": "TA-NIC", "text": "TA-NIC\n\nTA-NIC is a proprietary vaccine in development similar to TA-CD but being used to create human anti-nicotine antibodies in a person to destroy nicotine in the human body so that it is no longer effective.\n\nTA-NIC is a vaccine in development as an aid to quitting smoking in motivated patients. TA-NIC is an immunotherapeutic vaccine similar in concept to TA-CD, designed to raise anti-nicotine antibodies. The antibodies bind to nicotine molecules in the patient's blood stream, reducing the rate and quantity of nicotine entry into the brain and thus reducing the positive reinforcement and addiction associated with nicotine and cigarette smoking. It is expected that the reduction of the positive reinforcement will in turn reduce the desire to smoke or use other tobacco products.\nTreatment with TA-NIC is expected to be part of a comprehensive smoking cessation management program that includes other supportive measures.\n"}
{"id": "387308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=387308", "title": "Transpersonal psychology", "text": "Transpersonal psychology\n\nTranspersonal psychology is a sub-field or \"school\" of psychology that integrates the spiritual and transcendent aspects of the human experience with the framework of modern psychology. It is also possible to define it as a \"spiritual psychology\". The \"transpersonal\" is defined as \"experiences in which the sense of identity or self extends beyond (trans) the individual or personal to encompass wider aspects of humankind, life, psyche or cosmos\". It has also been defined as \"development beyond conventional, personal or individual levels\".\n\nIssues considered in transpersonal psychology include spiritual self-development, self beyond the ego, peak experiences, mystical experiences, systemic trance, spiritual crises, spiritual evolution, religious conversion, altered states of consciousness, spiritual practices, and other sublime and/or unusually expanded experiences of living. The discipline attempts to describe and integrate spiritual experience within modern psychological theory and to formulate new theory to encompass such experience.\n\nTranspersonal psychology has made several contributions to the academic field, and the studies of human development, consciousness and spirituality. Transpersonal psychology has also made contributions to the fields of psychotherapy and psychiatry.\n\nLajoie and Shapiro reviewed forty definitions of transpersonal psychology that had appeared in academic literature over the period from 1968 to 1991. They found that five key themes in particular featured prominently in these definitions: \"states of consciousness\"; \"higher or ultimate potential\"; \"beyond the ego or personal self\"; \"transcendence\"; and \"the spiritual\". Based upon this study the authors proposed the following definition of transpersonal psychology: \"Transpersonal Psychology is concerned with the study of humanity's highest potential, and with the recognition, understanding, and realization of unitive, spiritual, and transcendent states of consciousness\".\n\nIn a review of previous definitions Walsh and Vaughan suggested that transpersonal psychology is an \"area of psychology that focuses on the study of transpersonal experiences and related phenomena. These phenomena include the causes, effects and correlates of transpersonal experiences and development, as well as the disciplines and practices inspired by them\". They have also criticised many definitions of transpersonal psychology for carrying implicit assumptions, or presuppositions, that may not necessarily define the field as a whole. \n\nHartelius, Caplan and Rardin conducted a retrospective analysis of definitions of transpersonal psychology. They found three dominant themes that define the field: \"beyond-ego psychology\", \"integrative/holistic psychology\", and \"psychology of transformation\". Analysis suggested that the field has moved from an early emphasis on alternative states of consciousness to a more expanded view of human wholeness and transformation. This development has, according to the authors, moved the field closer to the integral approaches of Ken Wilber and Post-Aurobindonian theorists.\n\nCaplan (2009: p. 231) conveys the genesis of the discipline, states its mandate and ventures a definition:\n\nThe perspectives of holism and unity are central to the worldview of transpersonal psychology.\n\nAmongst the thinkers who are held to have set the stage for transpersonal studies are William James, Carl Jung, Roberto Assagioli and Abraham Maslow. More recent attention has brought to light transpersonal aspects of Jean Piaget's untranslated French works, and argued that Piaget's transpersonal experiences and theoretical interests were a major motivation for Piaget's psychological research. A review by Vich suggests that the earliest usage of the term \"transpersonal\" can be found in lecture notes which William James had prepared for a semester at Harvard University in 1905-6. The meaning then, different from today's usage, was in the context of James' radical empiricism, in which there exists an intimate relation between a perceiving subject and a perceived object, recognizing that all objects are dependent on being perceived by someone. Commentators also mention the psychedelic movement, the psychological study of religion, parapsychology, and the interest in Eastern spiritual systems and practices, as influences that shaped the early field of transpersonal psychology.\n\nAnother important figure in the establishment of transpersonal psychology was Abraham Maslow, who had already published work regarding human peak experiences. Maslow is credited for having presented the outline of a fourth-force psychology, named transhumanistic psychology, in a lecture entitled \"The Farther Reaches of Human Nature\" in 1967. In 1968 Maslow was among the people who announced transpersonal psychology as a \"fourth force\" in psychology, in order to distinguish it from the three other forces of psychology: psychoanalysis, behaviorism and humanistic psychology. Early use of the term \"transpersonal\" can also be credited to Stanislav Grof and Anthony Sutich. At this time, in 1967–68, Maslow was also in close dialogue with Grof and Sutich regarding the name and orientation of the new field. According to Powers the term \"transpersonal\" starts to show up in academic journals from 1970 and onwards.\n\nBoth humanistic and transpersonal psychology have been associated with the Human Potential Movement. A growth center for alternative therapies and philosophies that grew out of the counter-culture of the 1960s at places like Esalen, California.\n\nGradually, during the 1960s, the term \"transpersonal\" was associated with a distinct school of psychology within the humanistic psychology movement. In 1969, Abraham Maslow, Stanislav Grof and Anthony Sutich were among the initiators behind the publication of the first issue of the \"Journal of Transpersonal Psychology\", the leading academic journal in the field. During the next decade significant establishments took place under the banner of Transpersonal Psychology. The \"Association for Transpersonal Psychology\" was established in 1972. An international initiative, \"The International Transpersonal Psychology Association\", was founded by Stanislav Grof, and held its first conference in Iceland in 1973. This was soon to be followed by the founding of the \"Institute of Transpersonal Psychology\", a graduate training center, in 1975 . The institute was founded by Robert Frager and James Fadiman in response to the academic climate of the 1970s, and included transpersonal and spiritual approaches to psychology. Soon other institutions, with transpersonal psychology programs, followed. Among these were Saybrook Graduate School, the California Institute of Asian Studies (now California Institute of Integral Studies), JFK University, and Naropa.\n\nIn the 1970s the field developed through the writings of such authors as Robert Frager, Alyce and Elmer Green, Daniel Goleman, Stanley Krippner, Charles Tart, Roger Walsh, John Welwood, and Ken Wilber. Wilber, a major figure in the early transpersonal field, published a number of articles and books, in the late 1970s and early 1980s, which contributed to the development of transpersonal psychology. Among the books we find \"The Spectrum of Consciousness\" (1977),\"The Atman Project - a transpersonal view of human development\" (1980), and the co-authored compilation \"Transformations of Consciousness\" (1986). According to Paulson Wilber provided intellectual grounding for the field of transpersonal psychology. Mainly in the form of a synthesis of diverse disciplines.\n\nAnother important contributor to the field, Michael Washburn, was drawing on the insights of Jungian depth psychology. He presented his transpersonal theory in a book called \"The Ego and the Dynamic Ground\" (1988) towards the end of the 1980s. According to Smith, Wilber (1977) and Washburn (1988) presented the major guiding theories of transpersonal development. The 1980s were also characterized by the work of Stanislav and Christina Grof, and their concept of \"spiritual emergence\" and \"spiritual emergencies\".\nThe period also reflected initiatives at the organizational level. In the early 1980s a group within APA division 32 (Humanistic Psychology) argued in favor of establishing transpersonal psychology as a separate division within the framework of the \"American Psychological Association\". A petition was presented to the APA Council in 1984, but was turned down. A new initiative was made in 1985, but it failed to win the majority of votes in the council. In 1986 the petition was presented for a third and final time, but was withdrawn by the executive board of Division 32. The interest group later re-formed as the Transpersonal Psychology Interest Group (TPIG), and continued to promote transpersonal issues in collaboration with Division 32.\n\nThe 1990s introduced new profiles who contributed insights to the field. Among these authors we find Brant Cortright, Stuart Sovatsky, David Lukoff, Robert P. Turner and Francis Lu. Cortright and Sovatsky made contributions to transpersonal psychotherapy. Both authors published their primary work as part of the SUNY-series. Lukoff, Turner and Lu, writers in the clinical field, were the authors behind the proposal for a new diagnostic category to be included in the DSM-manual of the \"American Psychiatric Association\". The category was called \"Psychoreligious or psychospiritual problem\" and was approved by the Task Force on DSM-IV in 1993, after changing its name to \"Religious or spiritual problem\".\n\nWhile Wilber has been considered an influential writer and theoretician in the field of transpersonal psychology, his departure from the field was becoming more obvious during the decade of the 1990s. Although the date of his departure is unclear, Freeman notes that Wilber had been distancing himself from the label of “transpersonal”, in favour of the label of “integral”, since the mid-1990s. In 1998 he formed Integral Institute. \n\nOn the organizational side the decade was marked by a steady increase in membership for the \"Association for Transpersonal Psychology\", stabilizing at approximately 3000 members in the early nineties. In 1996 the \"British Psychological Society\" (the UK professional body equivalent to the APA) established a Transpersonal Psychology Section. It was co-founded by David Fontana, Ingrid Slack and Martin Treacy and was, according to Fontana, \"the first Section of its kind in a Western scientific society\". In the second half of the decade commentators remarked that the field of transpersonal psychology had grown steadily and rapidly.\n\nThe beginning of the 2000s was marked by the revisionary project of Jorge Ferrer, which is considered to be an important contribution to the field. His main publication from this era, \"Revisioning Transpersonal Theory - A Participatory Vision of Human Spirituality\" (2001), was part of the \"SUNY Series in Transpersonal and Humanistic Psychology\".\nIn 2012 the Institute of Transpersonal Psychology announced that it was changing its name to Sofia University. A change that included a new profile in the academic landscape, with an expanded graduate program.\n\nSeveral psychological schools, or branches, have influenced the field of transpersonal psychology. Among these schools we find the Analytical psychology of Carl Jung, the psychosynthesis of Roberto Assagioli, and the humanistic psychology of Abraham Maslow. The major transpersonal models of psychotherapy, as reviewed by Cortright, are the models of Ken Wilber, C.G Jung, Michael Washburn, Stanislav Grof, and Hameed Ali.\n\nDr. William J. Barry established transpersonal psychology as a valid action research method in the field of education through his Ph.D. thesis and development of Transformational Quality (TQ) Theory. Applications to the areas of business studies and management have been developed. Other transpersonal disciplines, such as transpersonal anthropology and transpersonal business studies, are listed in transpersonal disciplines.\n\nTranspersonal art is one of the disciplines considered by Boucovolas, in listing how transpersonal psychology may relate to other areas of transpersonal study. In writing about transpersonal art, Boucovolas begins by noting how, according to Breccia and also to the definitions employed by the International Transpersonal Association in 1971, transpersonal art may be understood as art work which draws upon important themes beyond the individual self, such as the transpersonal consciousness. This makes transpersonal art criticism germane to mystical approaches to creativity. Transpersonal art criticism, as Boucovolas notes, can be considered that which claims conventional art criticism has been too committed to stressing rational dimensions of art and has subsequently said little on art's spiritual dimensions, or as that which holds art work has a meaning beyond the individual person. Certain aspects of the psychology of Carl Jung, as well as movements such as music therapy and art therapy, may also relate to the field. Boucovolas' paper cites Breccia (1971) as an early example of transpersonal art, and claims that at the time his article appeared, integral theorist Ken Wilber had made recent contributions to the field. More recently, the Journal of Transpersonal Psychology, in 2005, Volume 37, launched a special edition devoted to the media, which contained articles on film criticism that can be related to this field.\n\nSeveral academic fields have a strong relation to the field of transpersonal psychology. Related academic fields include near-death studies, parapsychology and humanistic psychology. The major findings of near-death studies are represented in the \"Textbook of Transpersonal Psychiatry and Psychology\", and in \"The Wiley-Blackwell Handbook of Transpersonal Psychology\". The near-death experience is also discussed in relation to other transpersonal and spiritual categories. The major findings of parapsychology are also represented in the \"Textbook of Transpersonal Psychiatry and Psychology\", and in \"The Wiley-Blackwell Handbook of Transpersonal Psychology\".\n\nThere is also a strong connection between the transpersonal and the humanistic approaches to psychology, as indicated by the sourcebook of Donald Moss. Although transpersonal psychology is considered to have started off within, or developed from humanistic psychology, many of its interests, such as spirituality and modes of consciousness, extend beyond the areas of interest discussed by humanistic theory. According to writers in the field transpersonal psychology advocates for an expanded, spiritual, view of physical and mental health that is not necessarily addressed by humanistic psychology.\n\nA few commentators have suggested that there is a difference between transpersonal psychology and a broader category of transpersonal theories, sometimes called transpersonal studies. According to Friedman this category might include several approaches to the transpersonal that lie outside the frames of science. However, according to Ferrer the field of transpersonal psychology is \"situated within the wider umbrella of transpersonal studies\".\n\nTranspersonal psychology may also, sometimes, be associated with New Age beliefs and pop psychology. However, leading authors in the field, among those Sovatsky, and Rowan, have criticized the nature of \"New Age\"-philosophy and discourse. Rowan even states that \"The Transpersonal is not the New Age\".\n\nAlthough some consider that the distinction between transpersonal psychology and the psychology of religion, is fading (e.g. The Oxford Handbook of Psychology and Spirituality), there is still generally considered to be a clear distinction between the two. Much of the focus of psychology of religion is concerned with issues that wouldn't be considered 'transcendent' within transpersonal psychology, so the two disciplines do have quite a distinct focus.\n\nThe transpersonal perspective spans many research interests. The following list is adapted from the \"Textbook of Transpersonal Psychiatry and Psychology\" and includes: the contributions of spiritual traditions such as Taoism, Hinduism, \nYoga, Buddhism, Kabbalah, Christian mysticism, Shamanism, and Native American healing to psychiatry and psychology; meditation research and clinical aspects of meditation; psychedelics; parapsychology; anthropology; diagnosis of religious and spiritual problem; offensive spirituality and spiritual defenses; phenomenology and treatment of Kundalini; psychotherapy; near-death experience; religious cults; psychopharmacology; guided imagery; breathwork; past life therapy; ecological survival and social change; aging and adult spiritual development.\n\nThe research of transpersonal psychology is based upon both quantitative and qualitative methods, but some commentators, such as Taylor, has suggested that the main contribution of transpersonal psychology has been to provide alternatives to the quantitative methods of mainstream psychology. Although the field has not been a significant contributor of empirical knowledge on clinical issues, it has contributed important quantitative research to areas such as the study of meditation.\n\nOne of the demarcations in transpersonal theory is between authors who are associated with hierarchical/holarchical, sequential, or stage-like models of human development, such as Ken Wilber and John Battista, and authors who are associated with Jungian perspectives, or models that include the principle of regression, such as Michael Washburn and Stanislav Grof.\n\nThe transpersonal psychology of Ken Wilber is often mentioned as an influential theoretical framework for the field. Wilber is often regarded as a leading theorist and pioneer of the transpersonal movement, but he has not been actively associated with the label for quite some time. Several commentators note that he has distanced himself from the transpersonal field in favour of a new model that he calls integral. However, his psychological model still remains influential to the practice and development of transpersonal psychology, and transpersonal themes remain a central part of his own work. His initial contribution to the understanding of human development was a spectrum-model of psychology, originally outlined in his first books, \"The Spectrum of Consciousness\" (1977) and \"The Atman Project - A Transpersonal View of Human Development\" (1980). The books might superficially be described as a synthesis of east and west; an integration of the spiritual philosophies of Hindu-Buddhist traditions with the developmental and spiritual psychologies of western academia.\n\nWilber's spectrum of consciousness consists of three broad developmental categories: the prepersonal or pre-egoic, the personal or egoic, and the transpersonal or trans-egoic. A more detailed version of this spectrum theory includes nine different levels of human development, in which levels 1-3 are pre-personal levels, levels 4-6 are personal levels and levels 7-9 are transpersonal levels. Later versions also include a tenth level. The transpersonal stages, or the upper levels of the spectrum, are the home of spiritual events and developments. The framework proposed by Wilber suggests that human development is a progressive movement through these stages of consciousness. The model implies that different schools of psychology are associated with different levels of the spectrum, and that each level of organization, or self-development, includes a vulnerability to certain pathologies associated with that particular level. Each level also represents developmental tasks that must be properly met, or they might lead to developmental arrest. A basic tenet of Wilber's transpersonal psychology is a concept called the \"pre/trans fallacy\". That is, a confusion of transpersonal progression with prepersonal regression. According to writers in the field western schools of psychology have had a tendency to regard transpersonal levels as pathological, equating them with regressive pathological conditions belonging to a lower level on the spectrum. The pre/trans fallacy describes a lack of differentiation between these two categories.\n\nWilbers understanding of the levels of consciousness, or reality, ranging from matter to body to mind to soul to spirit, or from prepersonal to personal to transpersonal, is often referred to as the \"Great Chain of Being\". This overarching framework, that is adapted from the \"perennial philosophy\" of the worlds great spiritual traditions, is later reformulated by Wilber as the \"Great Nest of Being\". That is, not just a simple linear hierarchy, but a kind of nested hierarchy, or holarchy.\nHuman development, and evolution, is considered to move up this holarchy.\n\nThe 1990s marked a move into the world of integral ideas for Wilber. According to commentators he stopped referring to his work as transpersonal, in favor of the term \"integral\", by the mid-1990s. Literature now confirms that he has shifted from transpersonal psychology to integral psychology. According to Brys & Bokor Wilber presented major parts of his integral approach in the years 1997-2000. The integral theory included a four quadrant model of consciousness and its development, whose dimensions were said to unfold in a sequence of stages or levels. The combination of quadrants and levels resulting in an all-quadrant, all-level approach. The theory also included the concept of holon, \"a whole that is simultaneously part of some other whole\", and holarchy, \"hierarchical holons within holons\". Some of these ideas were already presented with the publication of \"Sex, Ecology, Spirituality\" in 1995. According to reviewers, the spiritual dimension was central to Wilbers integral vision.\n\nSimilar to the model presented by Wilber is the information theory of consciousness presented by John Battista. Battista suggests that the development of the self-system, and of human psychology, consists of a series of transitions in the direction of enhanced maturity and psychological stability, and in the direction of transpersonal and spiritual categories. His model presents a series of developmental tasks with corresponding levels of consciousness and psychopathology, and discusses therapeutic interventions in relation to the different levels and transitions.\n\nMichael Washburn presents a model of human development that is informed by psychoanalysis, object-relations theory, and the depth psychology of the Jungian perspective. In the context of transpersonal psychotherapy Washburn's approach has been described as a «revision of Jung's analytical psychology». In, what is described as his seminal work, \"The Ego and the Dynamic Ground: A Transpersonal Theory of Development\" (1988/1995) he presents a «dynamic-dialectical model of development”. The model is updated in later publications, such as \"Embodied spirituality in a sacred world\" (2003).\n\nAccording to Washburn transpersonal development follows the principles of a spiraling path. Central to his model is the understanding of a dynamic ground; a deep level of the unconscious, with spiritual qualities, that the person is in contact with in the prepersonal stage of development. According to commentators Washburn describes three stages of human development; the pre-personal, the personal and the transpersonal, also described as; pre-egoic, egoic and trans-egoic. In the pre-stage (up to age 5) the child is integrated with the dynamic ground. Later in life this contact is weakened, and the prepersonal stage is followed by a new stage of development where the ego is dissociated from the dynamic ground. This happens through the process of repression, and marks the stage of adulthood, and of the mental ego (egoic stage)\n\nHowever, later in life there is the possibility of a re-integration with the dynamic ground, a trans-egoic stage. According to Washburn this transpersonal development requires a kind of U-turn, or going back to the dynamic ground, in order for the ego to become integrated with its unconscious dynamics. This aspect of Wasburn's model is described by commentators as «a going back before a higher going forth». A regression that paves the way for transcendence, and a fully embodied life. Washburn's approach to transpersonal development is often summed up as «regression in the service of transcendence» which, according to Lev, is a \"twist of the phrase, regression in the service of the ego\".\n\nWashburn has contrasted his own perspective, which he calls spiral-dynamic, to the developmental theory of Ken Wilber, which he calls structural-hierarchical. The differing views of Washburn and Wilber are mentioned by several commentators.\n\nStanislav Grof, on the other hand, operates with a cartography consisting of three kinds of territories: the realm of the sensory barrier and the personal unconscious (described by psychoanalysis), the perinatal or birth-related realm (organizing principles for the psyche), and the transpersonal realm. According to this view proper engagement with the first two realms sets the stage for an ascent to the third, transpersonal, realm. His early therapy, and research, was carried out with the aid of psychedelic substances such as lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD), psilocybin, mescaline, dipropyl-tryptamine (DPT), and methylene-dioxy-amphetamine (MDA). Later, when LSD was prohibited, Grof developed other methods of therapy, such as holotropic breathwork.\n\nHis early findings, which were based on observations from LSD research, uncovered four major types of experiences that, according to Grof, correspond to levels in the human unconscious: (1) Abstract and aesthetic experiences; (2) Psychodynamic experiences; (3) Perinatal experiences; (4) Transpersonal experiences. Grof returns to many of these findings in later books. Psychodynamic levels, which correspond to the theory of Sigmund Freud, is the area of biographical memories, emotional problems, unresolved conflicts and fantasies. Perinatal levels, which correspond to the theories of Otto Rank, is the area of physical pain and agony, dying and death, biological birth, aging, disease and decrepitude. Transpersonal levels, corresponding to the theories of C.G. Jung, is the area of a number of spiritual, paranormal and transcendental experiences, including ESP phenomena, ego transcendence and other states of expanded consciousness. In order to bring structure to the psychodynamic and perinatal levels Grof introduces two governing systems, or organizing principles: The COEX-system, which is the governing system for the psychodynamic level, and the Basic Perinatal Matrices, which represent the birthing stages and is the governing system for the perinatal level.\n\nGrof applies regressional modes of therapy (originally with the use of psychedelic substances, later with other methods) in order to seek greater psychological integration. This has led to the confrontation of constructive and deconstructive models of the process leading to genuine mental health: what Wilber sees as a pre/trans fallacy does not exist for Washburn and Grof, for pre-rational states may be genuinely transpersonal, and re-living them may be essential in the process of achieving genuine sanity.\n\nThe idea of development is also featured in the spiritual psychotherapy and psychology of Stuart Sovatsky. His understanding of human development, which is largely informed by east/west psychology and the tradition and hermeneutics of Yoga, places the human being in the midst of spiritual energies and processes outlined in yogic philosophy. According to Sovatsky these are maturational processes, affecting body and soul. Sovatsky adapts the concept of Kundalini as the maturational force of human development. According to his model a number of advanced yogic processes are said to assist in \"maturation of the ensouled body\".\n\nThe scholarship of Jorge Ferrer introduces a more pluralistic and participatory perspective on spiritual and ontological dimensions. In his revision of transpersonal theory Ferrer questions three major presuppositions, or frameworks for interpretation, that have been dominant in transpersonal studies. These are the frameworks of Experientalism (the transpersonal understood as an individual inner experience); Inner empiricism (the study of transpersonal phenomena according to the standards of empiricist science); and perennialism (the legacy of the perennial philosophy in transpersonal studies). Although representing important frames of reference for the initial study of transpersonal phenomena, Ferrer believes that these assumptions have become limiting and problematic for the development of the field.\n\nAs an alternative to these major epistemological and philosophical trends Ferrer focuses upon the great variety, or pluralism, of spiritual insights and spiritual worlds that can be disclosed by transpersonal inquiry. In contrast to the transpersonal models that are informed by the \"perennial philosophy\" he introduces the idea of a “dynamic and indeterminate spiritual power.” Along these lines he also introduces the metaphor of the \"ocean of emancipation\". According to Ferrer \"the ocean of emancipation has many shores\". That is, different spiritual truths can be reached by arriving at different spiritual shores.\n\nThe second aspect of his revision, \"the participatory turn\", introduces the idea that transpersonal phenomena are participatory and co-creative events. He defines these events as \"emergences of transpersonal being that can occur not only in the locus of an individual, but also in a relationship, a community, a collective identity or a place.\" This participatory knowing is multidimensional, and includes all the powers of the human being (body/heart/soul), as understood from a transpersonal framework. According to Jaenke Ferrer's vision includes a spiritual reality that is plural and multiple, and a spiritual power that may produce a wide range of revelations and insights, which in turn may be overlapping, or even incompatible.\n\nFerrer's approach to participatory thinking has been taken-up in the context of psychoanalysis. Drawing from Ferrer's criticisms of perennialism, Robin S. Brown adopts the participatory paradigm as a means to fostering clinical pluralism.\n\nEarly contributions to the field of Transpersonal Psychotherapy includes the approach of Walsh & Vaughan. In their outline of transpersonal therapy they emphasize that the goals of therapy includes both traditional outcomes, such as symptom relief and behaviour change, as well as work at the transpersonal level, which may transcend psychodynamic issues. Both Karma Yoga and altered states of consciousness are part of the transpersonal approach to therapy. According to Walsh & Vaughan the context of karma yoga, and service, should also facilitate a process whereby the psychological growth of the therapist could provide supporting environment for the growth of the client.\n\nSeveral authors in the field have presented an integration of western psychotherapy with spiritual psychology, among these Stuart Sovatsky and Brant Cortright. In his reformulation of western psychotherapy Sovatsky addresses the questions of time, temporality and soteriology from the perspectives of east/west psychology and spirituality. Besides drawing on the insights of post-freudians, such as D.W. Winnicott, Sovatsky integrates his approach to psychotherapy with an expanded understanding of body and mind, informed by the philosophy of Yoga.\n\nCortright, on the other hand, has reviewed the field of transpersonal psychotherapy and the major transpersonal models of psychotherapy, including Wilber, Jung, Washburn, Grof and Ali, as well as existential, psychoanalytic, and body-centered approaches. He also presents a unifying theoretical framework for the field of Transpersonal Psychotherapy, and identifies the dimension of human consciousness as central to the transpersonal realm. He also addresses clinical issues related to meditation, spiritual emergency, and altered states of consciousness. According to commentators Cortright challenges the traditional view, of Transpersonal Psychology, that a working through of psychological issues is necessary for progression on the spiritual path. Instead he suggests that these two lines of development are intertwined, and that they come to the foreground with shifting emphasis.\n\nWithin contemporary psychoanalysis it has been suggested that, from a clinical point of view, postulating a transcendent dimension to human experience is theoretically necessary in promoting non-reductive approaches to therapy.\n\nTranspersonal psychology has also brought clinical attention to the topic of spiritual crisis. Many of the psychological difficulties associated with a spiritual crisis are not ordinarily discussed by mainstream psychology. Among these clinical problems are psychiatric complications related to mystical experience; near-death experience; Kundalini awakening; shamanic crisis (also called shamanic illness); psychic opening; intensive meditation; separation from a spiritual teacher; medical or terminal illness; addiction. The terms \"spiritual emergence\" and \"spiritual emergency\" were coined by Stanislav and Christina Grof in order to describe the appearance of spiritual phenomena, and spiritual processes, in a persons life. The term \"spiritual emergence\" describes a gradual unfoldment of spiritual potential with little disruption in psychological, social and occupational functioning. In cases where the emergence of spiritual phenomena is intensified beyond the control of the individual it may lead to a state of \"spiritual emergency\". A spiritual emergency may cause significant disruption in psychological, social and occupational functioning. Many of the psychological difficulties described above can, according to Transpersonal theory, lead to episodes of spiritual emergency.\n\nAt the beginning of the 1990s a group of psychologists and psychiatrist, affiliated with the field of Transpersonal psychology, saw the need for a new psychiatric category involving religious and spiritual problems. Their concern was the possibility of misdiagnosis of these problems. Based on an extensive literature review, and networking with the American Psychiatric Association \"Committee on Religion and Psychiatry\", the group made a proposal for a new diagnostic category entitled \"Psychoreligious or Psychospiritual Problem\". The proposal was submitted to the Task Force on DSM-IV in 1991. The category was approved by the Task Force in 1993, after changing the title to \"Religious or Spiritual Problem\". It is included in the fourth edition of the \"Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders\" (DSM-IV), and the subsequent text-revision, DSM-IV-TR.\n\nAccording to the authors of the proposal the new category \"addressed problems of a religious or spiritual nature that are the focus of clinical attention and not attributable to a mental disorder\". In their view there exist criteria for differentiating between spiritual problems and mental disorders such as psychosis. This concern is also addressed in the DSM-IV Sourcebook. According to Lukoff and Lu, co-authors of the category, religious or spiritual problems are not classified as mental disorders. Foulks also notes that the new diagnosis is included in the DSM-IV-TR nonillness category (Other Conditions That May Be a Focus of Clinical Attention).\n\nAddition of the new category to the DSM-system was recognized by the psychiatric press, and the New York Times. Several commentators have also offered their viewpoints. Chinen notes that the inclusion marks \"increasing professional acceptance of transpersonal issues\", while Sovatsky sees the addition as an admittance of spiritually oriented narratives into mainstream clinical practice. Smart and Smart recognizes the addition of the category, and similar improvements in the fourth version, as a step forward for the cultural sensitivity of the DSM manual. Greyson, representing the field of Near-death studies, concludes that the diagnostic category of \"Religious or spiritual problem\" \"permits differentiation of near-death experiences and similar experiences from mental disorders\". In a study from 2000 Milstein and colleagues reported that their findings provided empirical evidence for the construct validity of the new DSM-IV category religious or spiritual problem (V62.89).\n\nAccording to commentators Transpersonal Psychology recognizes that transcendent psychological states, and spirituality, might have both negative and positive effects on human functioning. Health-promoting expressions of spirituality include development and growth, but there also exist health-compromising expressions of spirituality.\n\nA leading institution within the field of Transpersonal Psychology is the Association for Transpersonal Psychology, which was founded in 1972. Past presidents of the association include Alyce Green, James Fadiman, Frances Vaughan, Arthur Hastings, Daniel Goleman, Robert Frager, Ronald Jue, Jeanne Achterberg and Dwight Judy. An international organization, \"The International Transpersonal Psychology Association\", was founded in the 1970s. Also, a European counterpart to the American institution, the European Transpersonal Psychology Association (ETPA), was founded much later. The leading graduate school is Sofia University, formerly the Institute of Transpersonal Psychology. According to sources the university is private, non-sectarian, and accredited by the Western Association of Schools and Colleges.\n\nLeading academic publications within the field include the Journal of Transpersonal Psychology and the International Journal of Transpersonal Studies. Smaller publications include the \"Transpersonal Psychology Review\", the journal of the Transpersonal Psychology Section of the British Psychological Society. In 1996 Basic Books published the \"Textbook of Transpersonal Psychiatry and Psychology\", a standard text that included a thorough overview of the field. In 1999 Greenwood Press published a title called \"Humanistic and transpersonal psychology: A historical and biographical sourcebook\", which includes biographical and critical essays on central figures in Humanistic and Transpersonal Psychology. A recent publication, \"The Wiley Blackwell Handbook of Transpersonal Psychology\", is one of the latest and most updated introductions to the field of Transpersonal Psychology.\n\nAlthough the perspectives of Transpersonal Psychology has spread to a number of interest groups across the USA and Europe, its origins was in California, and the field has always been strongly associated with institutions on the west coast of the U.S.A. Both the Association for Transpersonal Psychology and the Institute of Transpersonal Psychology were founded in the state of California, and a number of the fields leading theorists come from this area of the USA.\n\nReception of Transpersonal psychology, in the surrounding culture, reflects a wide range of views and opinions, including both recognition and skepticism. Transpersonal psychology has been the topic of a number of academic articles and book reviews in other academic fields, including Psychiatry, Behavioral Science, Psychology, Social Work, Consciousness Studies, Religious Studies, Pastoral psychology, and Library Science.\n\nSeveral commentators have expressed their views on the field of Transpersonal psychology and its contribution to the academic landscape. Hilgard, representing the contemporary psychology of the early 1980s, regarded Transpersonal psychology as a fringe-movement that attracted the more extreme followers of Humanistic psychology. He did however remark that such movements might enrich the topics that psychologists study, even though most psychologists choose not to join the movement. Adams also observed the fringe-status of Transpersonal psychology, but noted that the work of Ken Wilber had provided the field with some amount of legitimacy. Cowley and Derezotes, representing the Social Work theory of the 1990s, regarded Transpersonal psychology as relevant for the development of spiritual sensitivity in the helping disciplines. Bidwell, representing the field of Pastoral psychology, saw Transpersonal psychology as a developing field that had largely been ignored by his own profession. He did however believe that Transpersonal psychology could contribute to the areas of pastoral theology and pastoral counseling. Elkins, writing for the field of spiritually oriented psychotherapy, considered that Transpersonal psychology had grown away from its roots in the humanistic movement and that it had established its own theories and perspectives.\n\nTaylor, representing the field of Humanistic Psychology, presented a balanced review of Transpersonal psychology in the early nineties. On the negative side he mentioned Transpersonal Psychology's tendency toward being philosophically naive, poorly financed, almost anti-intellectual, and somewhat overrated as far as its influences. On the positive side he noted the fields integrated approach to understanding the phenomenology of scientific method; the centrality of qualitative research; and the importance of interdisciplinary communication. In conclusion he suggested that the virtues of Transpersonal psychology may, in the end, outweigh its defects. In a later article Taylor regarded Transpersonal psychology as a visionary American folk-psychology with little historical relation to American academic psychology, except through its association with Humanistic psychology and the categories of transcendence and consciousness.\n\nRuzek, who interviewed founders of Transpersonal psychology, as well as historians of American psychology, found that the field had made little impact on the larger field of psychology in America. Among the factors that contributed to this situation was mainstream psychology's resistance to spiritual and philosophical ideas, and the tendency of Transpersonal psychologists to isolate themselves from the larger context.\n\nThere has been some recognition of Transpersonal psychology in the general clinical field. In 1992 The Menninger Clinic organized its first symposium on transpersonal psychiatry. In 1994 the \"American Psychiatric Association\" included a new diagnostic category in its official manual (DSM-IV), following a proposal from clinicians associated with Transpersonal psychology and psychiatry. There have also been a few attempts to adapt the insights of Transpersonal psychology, and psychiatry, to psychiatric residency programs. For example, in their proposal for a lecture series on religion and spirituality in Canadian psychiatric residency training, authors Grabovac & Ganesan suggest Transpersonal psychology as a session, including spiritually transformative experiences, kundalini episodes, and spiritual emergencies as objectives for the session. In 2007 educators at the University of California (Davis) presented a new academic program for its psychiatric residents. The program was designed to improve culturally appropriate diagnosis and treatment in the Sacramento area. It included training in religion and spirituality, as well as insights from transpersonal psychiatry, as part of the PGY-3 curriculum. There has also been some recognition of Transpersonal psychology in the field of spiritually oriented psychotherapy. The first book to survey the field, published by the \"American Psychological Association\" in 2005, included a chapter on the Transpersonal–Integrative Approach to therapy.\n\nTranspersonal psychology has also entered the classroom setting. Perspectives from Transpersonal psychology are represented in a widely used college textbook on personality theories, marking the entrance of transpersonal themes into mainstream academic settings. In this book author Barbara Engler asks the question, \"Is spirituality an appropriate topic for psychological study?\" She offers a brief account of the history of transpersonal psychology and a peek into its possible future. The classroom dimension is also present in a book on personality theories by authors Robert Frager and James Fadiman. In this publication they provide an account of the contributions of many of the key historic figures who have shaped and developed transpersonal psychology (in addition to discussing and explaining important concepts and theories germane to it), which serves to promote an understanding of the discipline in classroom settings.\n\nAdmitting that the majority of mainstream psychology departments rarely offer training programs in transpersonal issues and practices as part of their curriculum, graduate programs in Humanistic and Transpersonal Psychology have been made available at several North-American Universities. Among these we find John F. Kennedy University in Orinda, which included Transpersonal psychology in its holistic studies program, and Burlington College in Vermont. In 2012 Columbia University announced that they were integrating spiritual psychology, similar to the perspectives taught at Sofia University (California), into their clinical psychology program.\n\nHowever, although Transpersonal psychology has experienced recognition from the surrounding culture, it has also faced a fair amount of skepticism and criticism from the same surroundings. Several commentators have mentioned the controversial aspects of Transpersonal psychology. Zdenek, representing a moderate criticism from the 1980s, noted that the field was regarded as controversial since its inception. Other commentators, such as Friedman, and Adams, also mention the controversial status of the field. In 1998 the \"San Francisco Chronicle\" reported on the holistic studies program at the \"John F. Kennedy University\" in Orinda, which included a Transpersonal psychology department. The program was considered to be unique at the time, but also controversial. Several commentators presented their skepticism towards the program. Another controversial aspect concerns the topic of psychedelic substances. Commenting upon the controversial status of psychedelic and entheogenic substances in contemporary culture, authors Elmer, MacDonald & Friedman observe that these drugs have been used for therapeutic effect in the transpersonal movement. The authors do however note that this is not the most common form of transpersonal intervention in contemporary therapy.\n\nAccording to Lukoff and Lu the \"American Psychological Association\" expressed some concerns about the “unscientific” nature of Transpersonal psychology at the time of the petition (see above) to the APA. Rowan notes that the Association had serious reservations about opening up a Transpersonal Psychology Division. The petitions for divisional status failed to win the majority of votes in the APA council, and the division was never established. Commentators also mention that Transpersonal Psychology's association with the ideas of religion was one of the concerns that prohibited it from becoming a separate division of the APA at the time of the petition in 1984.\n\nCommenting on the state of the field in the mid-nineties Chinen noted that professional publications, until then, had been hesitant to publish articles that dealt with transpersonal subjects. Adams notes that the field has struggled for recognition, while Freeman mentions that the early field of Transpersonal psychology was aware of the possibility that it would be rejected by the scientific community. The method of inner empiricism, based on disciplined introspection, was to be a target of skepticism from outsiders in the years to come.\n\nCriticism and skepticism towards the field of Transpersonal psychology has been presented by a wide assortment of commentators, and includes both writers from within its own ranks, as well as writers representing other fields of psychology or philosophy. However, Chinen notes that a few critics did not differentiate between the field of Transpersonal psychology on the one hand, and a wider field of transpersonal theories on the other. The necessity of a distinction between these two categories is also mentioned by other commentators.\n\nCritical remarks from within the field include the observations of Lukoff and Lu, and the criticism of Walach. In their contribution to the field of spiritually oriented psychotherapy Lukoff and Lu discuss the strengths and weaknesses of Transpersonal psychotherapy and Transpersonal psychology. Among the strengths is its basis of theory and practice that allows for communication and dialogue with other cultures, and native healers. Among the weaknesses is a lack of theoretical agreement, which has led to internal debates, and attention from critics who question the validity of the transpersonal approach. Another source, close to the field, is \"The Wiley-Blackwell Handbook of Transpersonal Psychology\". In a chapter from this book Walach brings attention to unsolved problems within the field. According to the editors the criticism represents \"the sort of self-criticism that is mandatory within a responsible discipline\".\n\nCriticism from other profiles, close to the field, also include the observations of Ken Wilber and Jorge Ferrer. Wilber, one of the early profiles within the Transpersonal field, has repeatedly announced the demise of Transpersonal psychology. However, the early transpersonal theory of Wilber was itself subject to criticism in the 1980s, most notably from humanistic psychologists. Even though Wilber has distanced himself from Transpersonal psychology in favour of Integral philosophy, his transpersonal model has continued to attract both recognition and criticism.\n\nAmong the critics of Wilber we also find Ferrer, who in 2001 published a revision of transpersonal theory. In this revision he criticized transpersonal psychology for being too loyal to the perennial philosophy, for introducing a subtle Cartesianism, and for being too preoccupied with intrasubjective spiritual states (inner empiricism). As an alternative to these trends he suggests a participatory vision of human spirituality that honors a wide assortment of spiritual insights, spiritual worlds and places.\n\nOne of the earliest criticisms of the field was issued by the Humanistic psychologist Rollo May, who disputed the conceptual foundations of Transpersonal psychology. According to commentators May also criticized the field for neglecting the personal dimension of the psyche by elevating the pursuit of the transcendental, and for neglecting the \"dark side of human nature\". Commentators note that these reservations, expressed by May, might reflect what later theorists have referred to as “spiritual bypassing”. Other commentators have suggested that May only focused on “New Age popularizations of transpersonal approaches”. However, criticism has also come from other profiles in the field of Humanistic psychology. Eugene Taylor and Kirk Schneider have raised objections to several aspects of Transpersonal psychology.\n\nThe field of Transpersonal psychology has also been criticized for lacking conceptual, evidentiary, and scientific rigor. In a review of criticisms of the field, Cunningham writes, \"philosophers have criticized transpersonal psychology because its metaphysics is naive and epistemology is undeveloped. Multiplicity of definitions and lack of operationalization of many of its concepts has led to a conceptual confusion about the nature of transpersonal psychology itself (i.e., the concept is used differently by different theorists and means different things to different people). Biologists have criticized transpersonal psychology for its lack of attention to biological foundations of behavior and experience. Physicists have criticized transpersonal psychology for inappropriately accommodating physic concepts as explanations of consciousness.\"\n\nOthers, such as Friedman, has suggested that the field is underdeveloped as a field of science and that it has, consequently, not produced a good scientific understanding of transpersonal phenomena. In his proposal for a new division of labour within the transpersonal field he suggests a distinction between transpersonal studies, a broad category that might include non-scientific approaches, and transpersonal psychology, a more narrow discipline that should align itself more closely with the principles of scientific psychology. However, this criticism has been answered by Ferrer who argues that Friedmans proposal attaches transpersonal psychology to a naturalistic metaphysical worldview that is unsuitable for the domain of spirituality. \nAlbert Ellis, a cognitive psychologist and humanist, has questioned the results of transpersonal psychotherapy, the scientific status of transpersonal psychology, and its relationship to religion, mysticism and authoritarian belief systems. This criticism has been answered by Wilber who questioned Ellis' understanding of the domain of religion, and the field of Transpersonal Psychology; and Walsh who questioned Ellis' critique of nonrational-emotive therapies. Also, commentators note that Ellis, in his later writings, has expressed a more moderate view of religious/spiritual/transpersonal experiences.\n\nOther commentators, such as Matthews, are more supportive of the field, but remarks that a weakness of Transpersonal psychology, and Transpersonal psychotherapy, has been its reliance on anecdotal clinical experiences rather than research. Adams, writing from the perspective of Consciousness Studies, has problematized the concept of introspective ‘data’ that appears to make up the \"database\" of Transpersonal psychology. Walach and Runehov have responded to this issue.\n\nTranspersonal psychology has been noted for undervaluing quantitative methods as a tool for improving our knowledge of spiritual and transpersonal categories. This is, according to commentators, a consequence of a general orientation within the field that regards spiritual and transpersonal experience to be categories that defy conceptualization and quantification, and thereby not well suited for conventional scientific inquiry.\n\nFrom the standpoint of Buddhism and Dzogchen, Elías Capriles \n\nGary T. Alexander has criticized the relationship between transpersonal psychology and the ideas of William James. Although the ideas of James are considered central to the transpersonal field, Alexander thought that transpersonal psychology did not have a clear understanding of the negative dimensions of consciousness (such as evil) expressed in James' philosophy. This serious criticism has been absorbed by later transpersonal theory, which has been more willing to reflect on these important dimensions of human existence.\n\nSkepticism towards the concept of spiritual emergencies, and the transpersonal dimension in psychiatry, has been expressed by Gray.\n\nAccording to Cunningham, transpersonal psychology has been criticized by some Christian authors as being \"a mishmash of 'New Age' ideas that offer an alternative faith system to vulnerable youths who turn their backs on organized religion (Adeney, 1988)\".\nAccording to Davis Transpersonal psychology has been criticized for emphasizing oneness and holism at the expense of diversity.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8194266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8194266", "title": "VERB (program)", "text": "VERB (program)\n\nVERB was a physical activity program of the Center for Disease Control and Prevention of the United States Government. It included print, online, and television national paid advertising, running them on popular children's channels and popular children's magazines, for example. It ran from 2002 to 2006. The main goal of the VERB campaign was to increase and maintain physical activity among “tweens” (children ages 9–13). The campaign is based upon social marketing principles (produce, price, place and promotion) and culturally targets this age group. It encourages life style changes such as playing more and “trying new verbs.” \n\nAn evaluation of the program in 2004 found it to have an expansive reach. Among exposed children, 96% reported understanding of at least one key campaign message. Children who reported being aware of the VERB campaign engaged in 3.9 weekly sessions of free-time activity while children with no VERB awareness reported 3 sessions of physical activity. This is a 22% differences between the VERB aware and unaware.\n\nIn 2004, an additional program called \"VERB Summer Scorecard\" emerged from the national VERB campaign. VERB Summer Scorecard was developed first launched by \"Fit Kentucky\" and the Lexington Fayette County Health Department (creating the Lexington Tweens Nutrition and Fitness Coalition). It has since been adapted and disseminated in 22 communities including cities in Florida, Nebraska, Iowa and Colorado. VERB Summer Scorecard promotes and incentivizes physical activity opportunities by creating a “passport” (scorecard) system for children to track their physical activity. It creates “activity-friendly communities” to facilitate exercise.\n\n"}
{"id": "14393593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14393593", "title": "Waitakere Reservoir", "text": "Waitakere Reservoir\n\nWaitakere Reservoir is a reservoir on the Waitakere River in the Waitakere Ranges, west of Auckland in New Zealand. Waitakere Dam was completed in 1910. It has a lake area of 25.1 hectares and a capacity of 1.76 million cubic metres.\n\nThe dam is accessible from the Montana Heritage Trail, a bush hike in the region.\n"}
{"id": "32885226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32885226", "title": "Washington Initiative 502", "text": "Washington Initiative 502\n\nWashington Initiative 502 (I-502) \"on marijuana reform\" was an initiative to the Washington State Legislature, which appeared on the November 2012 general ballot, passing by a margin of approximately 56 to 44 percent. Originally submitted to the Washington Secretary of State during the summer of 2011, enough signatures were collected and submitted by December to meet the required 241,153 signatures, sending it to the legislature. \nWhen the legislature adjourned without action in April, Initiative 502 automatically advanced to the November 2012 general ballot. It was approved by popular vote on November 6, and took effect over the course of a year, beginning with certification no later than December 6, 2012. Along with a similar Colorado measure, Initiative 502 was credited for encouraging voter turnout of 81%, the highest in the nation.\n\nInitiative 502 defined and legalized small amounts of marijuana-related products for adults 21 and over, taxes them and designates the revenue for healthcare and substance-abuse prevention and education. As noted at RCW 69.50.101, cannabis is still classified as a schedule I controlled substance under federal law and subject to federal prosecution under the doctrine of dual sovereignty. Possession by anyone younger than 21, possession of larger amounts, and the growing of unlicensed or unregulated marijuana remains illegal under state law.\n\nAs it is described by the Secretary of State's office, the measure shall \"license and regulate marijuana production, distribution, and possession for persons over twenty-one; remove state-law criminal and civil penalties for activities that it authorizes; tax marijuana sales; and earmark marijuana-related revenues.\"\n\nThis measure removes state-law prohibitions against producing, processing, and selling marijuana, subject to licensing and regulation by the liquor control board; allow limited possession of marijuana by persons aged twenty-one and over; and impose 25% excise taxes on wholesale and retail sales of marijuana, earmarking revenue for purposes that include substance-abuse prevention, research, education, and healthcare. Laws prohibiting driving under the influence would be amended to include maximum thresholds for THC blood concentration.\n\nAfter approval, Initiative 502 implements over a period of a year or more. Legal possession and DUI limits went into effect on December 9, 2012, and the state had until December 1, 2013, to establish other key rules. Until rules were established and licenses issued, retail sales to the general public were not allowed. Such businesses must be located 1,000 feet or further from public schools, and public use of marijuana became a civil infraction.\n\nThe initiative legalized use of marijuana products for adults 21 and over and focus law enforcement resources on DUI prosecution as well as violent and property crimes. Personal \"grows\" in one's own home, except for medical cannabis as regulated under RCW 69.51A, will remain illegal.\n\nPart I identifies the goal of the initiative and authorizes the Washington State Liquor Control Board \"to regulate\nand tax marijuana for persons twenty-one years of age and older, and add a new threshold for driving under the influence of marijuana.\"\n\nPart II establishes various definitions, including one which distinguishes \"marijuana\" from hemp and other parts of the cannabis plant based on its THC content.\n\nPart III establishes a license system for marijuana producers, processors, and retailers. Initial licenses shall be $250 with an annual renewal fee of $1000. Rules prohibit producers and processors from having any financial interest in retailers, much like the three-tier system for hard liquor in control states. This section also makes it clear that selling or distributing unlicensed marijuana remains illegal, setting limits on the maximum amount one may possess. Adults 21 years or older may possess up to \"one ounce of useable marijuana\", 16 ounces of marijuana-infused product in solid form, 72 ounces of marijuana-infused product in liquid form or \"any combination\" of all three. The part also authorizes Liquor Enforcement Officers of the Washington State Liquor Control Board to enforce RCW 69.50, the Uniform Controlled Substances Act. Previous to this Liquor Enforcement Officers could only enforce alcohol and tobacco laws.\n\nPart IV establishes a \"dedicated marijuana fund\" for all revenue received by the liquor control board, and explicitly earmarks any surplus from this new revenue for health care (55%), drug abuse treatment and education (25%), with 1% for marijuana-related research at University of Washington and Washington State University, most of the remainder going to the state general fund. A March 2012 analysis by the state Office of Financial Management estimated annual revenues above $560 million for the first full year, rising thereafter. February 2011 analysis of the similar Washington House Bill 1550 estimated annual state and county law-enforcement savings of approximately $22 million. OFM's final, official analysis did not include law-enforcement savings, but estimated five-year revenues at approximately $1.9 billion from an assumed retail price of $12 per gram. Proponents of I-502 have posted a pie chart showing annual dollar-per-purpose earmarks, based on these projections.\n\nPart V on \"driving under the influence of marijuana\" sets a per se DUI limit of \"delta-9\" THC levels at greater than or equal to 5 nanograms per milliliter of blood (5 ng/mL). Some medical cannabis advocates are concerned that this will lead to DUI convictions for medicinal cannabis users, who are driving with blood THC levels greater than or equal to 5 nanograms per milliliter. \"The metabolite THC-COOH, also known as carboxy-THC\" is explicitly excluded from consideration.\n\nRegistered sponsors for the measure included John McKay, former U.S. Attorney for the Western District of Washington; Seattle City Attorney Pete Holmes; Kim Marie Thorburn, M.D. and M.P.H., former director of the Spokane Regional Health District; and travel writer Rick Steves.\n\nOther sponsors included state representative for the 36th district Mary Lou Dickerson; immediate past president of the Washington State Bar Association Salvador A. Mungia; past president of the Washington State Bar Association Mark Johnson; Robert W. Wood, M.D., former director of the HIV/AIDS Program at the Seattle-King County public health department; University of Washington School of Social Work professor emeritus Roger Roffman, D.S.W., and Alison Holcomb, campaign director for New Approach Washington, \"on loan from\" the American Civil Liberties Union of Washington.\n\nAs per RCW 42.17A on \"campaign disclosure and contribution\", the Washington state Public Disclosure Commission posts campaign information online, including information for referenda and initiatives. Statements for and against each ballot measure are also available online as part of the official online voter's guide. Many groups which might traditionally be expected to take a stance on the issue have been silent, including business, education, law-enforcement, and drug treatment organizations.\n\nEarly supporters of the measure included Dominic Holden of \"The Stranger\". In September, the Washington State Democratic Central Committee endorsed I-502 by a vote of 75 in favor and 43 opposed. Eastern Washington's The Spokesman-Review endorsed I-502 from December 2011 as part of a broader call for legalization and federal reclassification of cannabis under the 1970 Controlled Substances Act. Other supporters include a variety of current legislators, organizations, former judges, law enforcement personnel, prosecutors and elected officials such as Jolene Unsoeld. The mayor and entire city council of Seattle support I-502, as does the King County sheriff. Former narcotics deputy and candidate for King County sheriff John Urquhart, saying \"the war on drugs has been an abject failure\". Noting the disproportionate impact of marijuana arrests and incarceration on families and racial minorities, the Children's Alliance, NAACP and various African-American pastors have also endorsed I-502.\nEarly national support for the measure comes from the National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws (NORML) and television evangelist Pat Robertson. Law Enforcement Against Prohibition (LEAP) has also endorsed the measure, including prominent LEAP spokesman and former Seattle police chief Norm Stamper and other law enforcement officials. The initiative has also been endorsed by former governor of New Mexico, Libertarian presidential candidate Gary Johnson, and cannabis-reform advocate Marc Emery.\n\nThe primary group supporting I-502 is New Approach Washington, which maintains an updated list of official endorsements on its website. In July 2012, major donations of financial support were given by the Drug Policy Alliance, Peter Lewis of Progressive Insurance and the American Civil Liberties Union.\n\nNewspapers endorsing I-502 in the weeks immediately prior to the election include \"The Seattle Times\", \"The Spokesman-Review\", \"The Columbian\", \"The Olympian\", and \"The Wenatchee World\".\n\nPublic and formal opposition was not well organized and mostly came from advocates of medical cannabis, who objected to \"Part V: Driving Under the Influence of Marijuana\". A key spokesperson was Steve Sarich, whom an Esquire blog has called one of the \"great marijuana prohibitionists of 2012.\" A Facebook group, \"Patients Against New Approach Washington (PANAW)\" began vocal opposition. A letter was sent to I-502 sponsors by Richard Bayer, MD; lawyers David Arganian and Jeffrey Steinborn; Gil Mobley, MD; Vivian McPeak, Executive Director of Seattle Hempfest; and Ric Smith, who has been a prominent patient advocate since 1996, arguing that I-502's DUIC language was unnecessary, unscientific, and unfair. Dominic Holden, of \"The Stranger\", disagreed with this criticism, citing the same 2009 study from the National Institutes of Health opponents to 502 had referenced. The board of directors for NORML acknowledged this criticism but opined that the law is a step in the right direction, even with the provision. At least one NORML blogger labelled them \"patients against pragmatism\". Some suppliers of medical marijuana are also worried that if the initiative becomes law their thriving businesses could be disrupted.\n\nOther opponents included the Washington Association of Sheriffs and Police Chiefs. and the Washington Association for Substance Abuse and Violence Prevention. Thurston County Sheriff John Snaza said Asian and motorcycle gangs currently control \"marijuana distribution and sales\" and that the initiative would likely lead to more traffic fatalities and organized crime. Then-governor Christine Gregoire opposed I-502, citing concerns about federal opposition.\n\nBoth major candidates for governor in the 2012 election also went on record in opposition, with Jay Inslee following Rob McKenna, both citing concerns for users of medical cannabis.\n\nSafe Access Washington, \"a trade organization on behalf of medical cannabis\", briefly formed and opposed I-502 before disbanding. The group Sensible Washington, sponsor of an earlier, abortive attempt at legalization in Washington, has also criticized I-502 in a seven-part series on their web page. On July 31, 2012, Sensible Washington announced its intent to \"actually repeal prohibition\" with a new Initiative drive in 2013, regardless of I-502's election outcome, noting in its press release that cannabis will remain a Schedule I drug under I-502, \"which we're not comfortable with and will work towards correcting.\" Opposition from Sensible Washington and others was strong enough that Seattle Hempfest chose neither to support nor endorse the measure, a decision which one proponent called \"dead wrong\" and \"ridiculous\", and which prompted an official \"Seattle Times\" injunction to \"get real\".\n\n\"No on I-502\" was the primary group opposing Initiative 502. Their website denounced what they described as I-502's \"new approach to prohibition\", and describes how the DUID provisions of I-502 may actually increase the potential penalty for marijuana use, and lead to a new era in the war on drugs under color of DUID prosecutions, as part of what they describe as a nationwide strategy to move war on drugs from the current focus on sales and possession to a new and more ominous offensive on drivers via new per se DUID laws like I-502.\n\nThe \"Walla Walla Union-Bulletin\" was the first newspaper to oppose I-502. It was joined by the \"Tri-City Herald\".\n\nFinal election returns showed I-502 passing with 55.7% of 3,095,444 votes. Immediately following this, \"The Oregonian\" called for the Oregon legislature to follow suit with a similar bill, and the incoming Mexican administration announced that it would reconsider its previous opposition to legalization. State agencies charged with regulating new marijuana businesses received over 300 inquiries the next day. Law enforcement began to respond, with the Seattle Police Department publishing a guide to legal marijuana use in Seattle as prosecutors in King and Pierce county quickly decided to drop all misdemeanor cases of marijuana possession, with other non-federal jurisdictions also de-emphasizing arrests for less than 40 grams.\n\nGovernor Christine Gregoire explicitly met with United States Deputy Attorney General James M. Cole to discuss details of implementation after passage of the measure, and governor-elect Jay Inslee has committed himself to being \"fully supportive of protecting, defending, and implementing the will of the voter.\"\n\nPassage of 502 drew attention from outside the state, eliciting various commentary. The president of the International Narcotics Control Board spoke out against Initiative 502 as a clear violation of the 1961 Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs, urging US officials to strongly oppose legalization of non-medical marijuana. Former US president Jimmy Carter referred to 502 and Colorado Amendment 64 in restating his decades-long support for decriminalization and legalization, to \"let the American people see\" how well it works. In his first interview on the subject after passage, President Barack Obama said that addressing this issue was not a high priority at this point, that international treaty obligations came into play, but that there were \"bigger fish to fry.\" In August 2013, the US Department of Justice elected not to sue Washington and Colorado over legalized marijuana and not to prosecute legal marijuana in those states.\n\nMany gathered to smoke publicly at the Space Needle just after midnight on December 6, in violation of the law. No arrests were made.\n\nI-502 mandated that rules for producers, processors and retailers be in place by December 1, 2013. The Washington State Liquor and Cannabis Board had initially anticipated the first proposed section would be approved in April. Distribution of draft rules to all stakeholders was planned May, with initial filing of all rules in June, before public hearings and adoption of the rules, to begin taking initial applications by September, and to begin issuing licenses in December 2013. Some state legislators are reportedly moving to \"slow down\" this rule-making process and national opponents Kevin Sabet and Patrick J. Kennedy have started Project SAM to promote what they call \"smart approaches to marijuana.\"\n\nInitial draft rules were released on May 16, with the public comment period set to end on June 10, 2013. Public hearings shall begin in August for rules to become effective in September and first licenses expected in December 2013 or the following January. Consultants estimate $495 million in annual sales among 300 stores across all counties, the highest concentration being in King, Pierce and Thurston counties. The first two dozen retail licenses were issued for July 2014, but delays in licensing producers are anticipated to cause supply problems during this early period.\n\nFollowing $67.5 million in sales/excise tax revenue during the first full year of legal sales along with a change in the regulatory tax structure to a single 37% retail rate, the state's Economic and Revenue Forecast Council estimated in 2015 that annual marijuana tax revenues would rise several-fold, reaching $369 million by the 2019 fiscal year.\n\n"}
{"id": "216928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216928", "title": "Wastewater", "text": "Wastewater\n\nWastewater (or waste water) is any water that has been affected by human use. Wastewater is \"used water from any combination of domestic, industrial, commercial or agricultural activities, surface runoff or stormwater, and any sewer inflow or sewer infiltration\". Therefore, wastewater is a byproduct of domestic, industrial, commercial or agricultural activities. The characteristics of wastewater vary depending on the source. Types of wastewater include: domestic wastewater from households, municipal wastewater from communities (also called sewage) or industrial wastewater from industrial activities. Wastewater can contain physical, chemical and biological pollutants.\n\nHouseholds may produce wastewater from flush toilets, sinks, dishwashers, washing machines, bath tubs, and showers. Households that use dry toilets produce less wastewater than those that use flush toilets.\n\nWastewater may be conveyed in a sanitary sewer which conveys only sewage. Alternatively, it can be transported in a combined sewer which includes stormwater runoff and industrial wastewater. After treatment at a wastewater treatment plant, the treated wastewater (also called effluent) is discharged to a receiving water body. The terms \"wastewater reuse\" or \"water reclamation\" apply if the treated waste is used for another purpose. Wastewater that is discharged to the environment without suitable treatment causes water pollution.\n\nIn developing countries and in rural areas with low population densities, wastewater is often treated by various on-site sanitation systems and not conveyed in sewers. These systems include septic tanks connected to drain fields, on-site sewage systems (OSS), vermifilter systems and many more.\n\nThe overarching term sanitation includes the management of wastewater, human excreta, solid waste and stormwater. \nThe term sewerage refers to the physical infrastructure required to transport and treat wastewater.\n\nSources of wastewater include the following domestic or household activities:\n\nActivities producing industrial wastewater:\n\nOther activities or events:\n\nWastewater can be diluted or mixed with other types of water by the following mechanisms:\n\nThe composition of wastewater varies widely. This is a partial list of pollutants that may be contained in wastewater:\n\n\nIf the wastewater contains human feces, as is the case for sewage, then it may also contain pathogens of one of the four types: \n\nIt can also contain non-pathogenic bacteria and animals such as insects, arthropods, small fish.\n\nSince all natural waterways contain bacteria and nutrients, almost any waste compounds introduced into such waterways will initiate biochemical reactions (such as shown above). Those biochemical reactions create what is measured in the laboratory as the biochemical oxygen demand (BOD). Such chemicals are also liable to be broken down using strong oxidizing agents and these chemical reactions create what is measured in the laboratory as the chemical oxygen demand (COD). Both the BOD and COD tests are a measure of the relative oxygen-depletion effect of a waste contaminant. Both have been widely adopted as a measure of pollution effect. The BOD test measures the oxygen demand of biodegradable pollutants whereas the COD test measures the oxygen demand of oxidizable pollutants.\n\nAny oxidizable material present in an aerobic natural waterway or in an industrial wastewater will be oxidized both by biochemical (bacterial) or chemical processes. The result is that the oxygen content of the water will be decreased.\n\nAt a global level, around 80% of wastewater produced is discharged into the environment untreated, causing widespread water pollution.\n\nThere are numerous processes that can be used to clean up wastewaters depending on the type and extent of contamination. Wastewater can be treated in wastewater treatment plants which include physical, chemical and biological treatment processes. Municipal wastewater is treated in sewage treatment plants (which may also be referred to as wastewater treatment plants). Agricultural wastewater may be treated in agricultural wastewater treatment processes, whereas industrial wastewater is treated in industrial wastewater treatment processes.\n\nFor municipal wastewater the use of septic tanks and other On-Site Sewage Facilities (OSSF) is widespread in some rural areas, for example serving up to 20 percent of the homes in the U.S.\n\nOne type of aerobic treatment system is the activated sludge process, based on the maintenance and recirculation of a complex biomass composed of micro-organisms able to absorb and adsorb the organic matter carried in the wastewater. Anaerobic wastewater treatment processes (UASB, EGSB) are also widely applied in the treatment of industrial wastewaters and biological sludge. Some wastewater may be highly treated and reused as reclaimed water. Constructed wetlands are also being used.\n\nIn some urban areas, municipal wastewater is carried separately in sanitary sewers and runoff from streets is carried in storm drains. Access to either of these systems is typically through a manhole.\n\nDuring high precipitation periods a combined sewer system may experience a combined sewer overflow event, which forces untreated sewage to flow directly to receiving waters. This can pose a serious threat to public health and the surrounding environment.\n\nSewage may drain directly into major watersheds with minimal or no treatment but this usually has serious impacts on the quality of an environment and on the health of people. Pathogens can cause a variety of illnesses. Some chemicals pose risks even at very low concentrations and can remain a threat for long periods of time because of bioaccumulation in animal or human tissue.\n\nWastewater from industrial activities may be pumped underground through an injection well. Wastewater injection has been linked to Induced seismicity.\n\nTreated wastewater can be reused in industry (for example in cooling towers), in artificial recharge of aquifers, in agriculture and in the rehabilitation of natural ecosystems (for example in wetlands). In rarer cases it is also used to augment drinking water supplies. There are several technologies used to treat wastewater for reuse. A combination of these technologies can meet strict treatment standards and make sure that the processed water is hygienically safe, meaning free from bacteria and viruses. The following are some of the typical technologies: Ozonation, ultrafiltration, aerobic treatment (membrane bioreactor), forward osmosis, reverse osmosis, advanced oxidation.\n\nSome water demanding activities do not require high grade water. In this case, wastewater can be reused with little or no treatment. One example of this scenario is in the domestic environment where toilets can be flushed using greywater from baths and showers with little or no treatment.\n\nIrrigation with recycled wastewater can also serve to fertilize plants if it contains nutrients, such as nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium. In developing countries, agriculture is using untreated wastewater for irrigation - often in an unsafe manner. There can be significant health hazards related to using untreated wastewater in agriculture. The World Health Organization developed guidelines for safe use of wastewater in 2006.\n\nAs part of the Environmental Protection Act 1994, the Environmental Protection (Water) Policy 2009 is responsible for the water management of Queensland, Australia.\n\nIn Nigeria, the Water Resources Act of 1993 is the law responsible for all kinds of water management.\n\nIn the Philippines, Republic Act 9275, otherwise known as the Philippine Clean Water Act of 2004, is the governing law on wastewater management. It states that it is the country's policy to protect, preserve and revive the quality of its fresh, brackish and marine waters, for which wastewater management plays a particular role.\n\nThe Clean Water Act is the primary federal law in the United States governing water pollution in surface waters. Groundwater protection provisions are included in the Safe Drinking Water Act, Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, and the Superfund act.\n"}
{"id": "24917912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24917912", "title": "Wine to Water", "text": "Wine to Water\n\nWine To Water is a non-profit organization committed to supporting life and dignity for all through the power of clean water. The organization was founded by Doc Hendley in 2007.\n\nThe idea for Wine To Water was born with the first fundraiser being held in Raleigh, North Carolina in early 2004. The founder, Doc Hendley was a bartender in Raleigh, and had a strong desire utilize the bar and nightclub industry as a way to bring about positive change in the world. After becoming aware of the world's water crisis, Doc held fundraisers at wine tastings and bars in the Raleigh area. The funds from the events would be used to implement clean water projects around the world. The projects financed include digging and repairing wells, supplying areas with filtration systems and storage containers, and educating locals on how to maintain fresh water supplies.\n\nNearly one billion people worldwide lack access to clean water, and roughly 3.5 million people die each year because of water related issues. Almost half of these deaths are attributed to diarrhea. Wine To Water has expanded greatly recently, and is currently working on water projects in Sudan, India, Cambodia, Uganda, Ethiopia, Peru, and Kenya.\n\nWine To Water is based in Boone, North Carolina, and has clean water projects running in multiple international locations. Wine To Water has received a great deal of media attention on the local, national, and international levels. Doc Hendley was selected by CNN as a top ten finalist for the 2012 CNN Heroes. As of 2009, Wine To Water had implemented sustainable drinking water initiatives to over 25,000 individuals. By October 2014, Wine To Water had expanding to include projects in 18 countries on four continents, supplying clean water to over 300,000 individuals.\n\nSudan was one of the first countries to receive aid from Wine To Water. Much of the work in Sudan is focused on the rehabilitation of old wells that have stopped supplying water due to faulty pumping mechanisms. Wine To Water has also helped truck water into many of the war torn regions of Sudan. In addition to the above successes, they have constructed and installed an entire water system for an orphanage located in the country's capital. Prior to the contributions made by Wine To Water, the orphanage children were drinking out of a basin of standing water. This is very unhealthy because the basin was the same basin they washed in and standing water is a \"breeding ground\" for bacteria. Thanks to Wine To Water, the children and staff now have access to clean running water. Many of the locations wine To water has visited in the Sudan area have been deemed \"unsafe\" for humanitarian work. However, Doc and his organization have traveled to these areas and successfully implemented water treatment facilities and practices.\n\nA leper colony located on the outskirts of New Delhi lacked access to clean water. WTW has installed a new running water system for this colony.\n\nCambodia is a country surrounded by water, yet most of the citizens lack access to clean water. Roughly of the deaths in Cambodia can be attributed to a lack of clean water.\nOne focus of Wine To Water in Phnom Penh, is to supply Bio Sand filters for the residences and communities that do not have access to clean water. The primary focus, however, is the drilling of new water wells for communities. As of October, 2009, WTW has drilled over 70 wells for the people of Cambodia. Using local supplies and hand pumps, WTW is able to cut the cost of drilling a well to one fifth the original cost.\n\nWork in Uganda is focused on several areas: first is the distribution of Bio-Sand filters, second is the training of local persons to manufacture their own filters, lastly the formation of training centers around the country to educate the citizens about how to clean water and the importance of this process.\nWine To Water's work in Peru is currently centered in Trujillo. Water projects underway as of 2009 include hand digging wells, as well as supplying households, orphanages and daycares with a water pumping and storage system to ensure clean water for the community. Individual filtration systems are being distributed in additional areas exposed to contaminated water sources.\n\nIn response to the 2010 Haiti earthquake, Wine To Water responded by partnering with Filter Pure to distribute 500 ceramic water filters. The filters provide clean water for a family of 10 for up to five years. Along with Filter Pure, Wine To Water has also begun to build a Haitian run ceramic filter factory to ensure clean water will continue to get to those who need it most.\n\n"}
{"id": "7941353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7941353", "title": "Women who have sex with women", "text": "Women who have sex with women\n\nWomen who have sex with women (WSW) are women who engage in sexual activities with other women, whether or not they identify themselves as lesbian, bisexual, pansexual, heterosexual, or dispense with sexual identification altogether. The term \"WSW\" is often used in medical literature to describe such women as a group for clinical study, without needing to consider sexual self-identity.\n\nIn terms of medical issues with regard to lesbian sexual practices, the sexual identification of women who consult a medical professional is usually not sought nor volunteered, due to the misconceptions and assumptions about sexuality and the hesitancy of some women in disclosing their accurate sexual histories even to a physician. Many women who do not participate in heterosexual activity do not go to see a physician because they do not require birth control, which is the initiating factor for most women to seek consultation with a gynecologist when they become sexually active. As a result, these women are not screened regularly with pap smears because they have a lower perceived risk of acquiring a sexually transmitted infection or types of cancer. A factor which leads to lesbians neglecting to seek medical screening in the United States is a lack of health insurance offered by employers for same-sex domestic partners.\n\nWhen women do seek medical attention, medical professionals often fail to take a complete medical history. In a recent study of 2,345 lesbian and bisexual women, only 9.3% had claimed they had ever been asked their sexual orientation by a physician. A third of the respondents believed disclosing their sexual history would result in a negative reaction, and 30% had received a negative reaction from a medical professional after identifying themselves as lesbian or bisexual.\n\nA patient's complete history helps medical professionals identify higher risk areas and corrects assumptions about the personal histories of women. In a similar survey of 6,935 lesbians, 77% had had sexual contact with one or more male partners, and 6% had that contact within the previous year.\n\nHeart disease is listed by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services as the number one cause of death for all women. Factors that add to risk of heart disease include obesity and smoking, both of which are more prevalent in lesbians. Studies show that lesbians have a higher body mass and are generally less concerned about weight issues than heterosexual women, although they are more likely to engage in exercise regularly.\n\nLack of differentiation between lesbians and heterosexual women in medical studies that concentrate on health issues for women skews results for lesbians and non-lesbian women. Reports are inconclusive about occurrence of breast cancer in lesbians. It has been determined, however, that the lower rate of lesbians tested by regular pap smears makes it more difficult to detect cervical cancer at early stages in lesbians. The risk factors for developing ovarian cancer rates are higher in lesbians than in heterosexual women, perhaps because many lesbians lack protective factors of pregnancy, abortion, contraceptives, breast feeding, and miscarriages.\n\nSince medical literature began to describe homosexuality, it has often been approached from a view that sought to find an inherent psychopathology as the root cause. Much literature on mental health and lesbians centered on their depression, substance abuse, and suicide. Although these issues exist among lesbians, discussion about their causes shifted after homosexuality was removed from the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual in 1973. Instead, social ostracism, legal discrimination, internalization of negative stereotypes, and limited support structures indicate factors homosexuals face in Western societies that often adversely affect their mental health. Women who identify as lesbian report feeling significantly different and isolated during adolescence; these emotions have been cited as appearing on average at 15 years old in lesbians and 18 years old in women who identify as bisexual. On the whole, women tend to work through developing a self-concept internally, or with other women with whom they are intimate. Women (heterosexual or otherwise) also limit who they divulge their sexual identities to and more often see being lesbian as a choice, as opposed to gay men, who work more externally and see being gay as outside their control.\n\nAnxiety disorders and depression are the most common mental health issues for women. Depression is reported among lesbians at a rate similar to heterosexual women. It is a more significant problem among women who feel they must hide their sexual orientation from friends and family, experience compounded ethnic or religious discrimination, or experience relationship difficulties with no support system. More than half the respondents to a 1994 survey of health issues in lesbians reported they had suicidal thoughts, and 18% had attempted suicide.\n\nA population-based study completed by the National Alcohol Research Center found that women who identify as lesbian or bisexual are less likely to abstain from alcohol. Lesbians and bisexual women have a higher likelihood of reporting problems with alcohol, as well as not being satisfied with treatment for substance abuse programs. Many lesbian communities are centered in bars, and drinking is an activity that correlates to community participation for lesbians and bisexual women.\n\nSome STIs are communicable between women, including human papillomavirus (HPV), trichomoniasis, syphilis, human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), bacterial vaginosis (BV), and herpes simplex virus (HSV). Transmission of specific sexually transmitted diseases among women who have sex with women depends on the sexual practices women engage in. Any object that comes in contact with cervical secretions, vaginal mucosa, or menstrual blood, including fingers or penetrative objects may transmit sexually transmitted diseases. Oral-genital contact may indicate a higher risk of acquiring HSV, even among women who have had no prior sex with men. Bacterial vaginosis occurs more often in lesbians, but it is unclear if BV is transmitted by sexual contact; it occurs in celibate as well as sexually active women. BV often occurs in both partners in a lesbian relationship; a recent study of women with BV found that 81% had partners with BV. Lesbians are not included in a category of frequency of HIV transmission, although transmission is possible through vaginal and cervical secretions; the highest rate of transmission of HIV to women is among those who have sexual intercourse with men or participate in intravenous drug use.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6637607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6637607", "title": "Xenodochium", "text": "Xenodochium\n\nIn the early Middle Ages, a xenodochium or xenodoch(e)ion (from Ancient Greek ξενοδοχεῖον, \"ksenodokheion\"; place for strangers, inn, guesthouse) was a type of hostel or hospital, usually specifically for foreigners or pilgrims, but the term could refer to charitable institutions in general. Xenodochia were more common than institutions of a more specific nature, such as the \"gerocomium\" (a place for the old), \"nosocomium\" (for the sick) and \"orphanotrophium\" (for orphans). A hospital for victims of plague was called a \"xenodochium pestiferorum\" (guesthouse of the plague-carriers).\n"}
