{"id": "16764556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16764556", "title": "2007–08 world food price crisis", "text": "2007–08 world food price crisis\n\nWorld food prices increased dramatically in 2007 and the first and second quarter of 2008, creating a global crisis and causing political and economic instability and social unrest in both poor and developed nations. Although the media spotlight focused on the riots that ensued in the face of high prices, the ongoing crisis of food insecurity had been years in the making. Systemic causes for the worldwide increases in food prices continue to be the subject of debate. After peaking in the second quarter of 2008, prices fell dramatically during the late-2000s recession but increased during late 2009 and 2010, reaching new heights in 2011 and 2012 (see 2010–12 world food price crisis) at a level slightly higher than the level reached in 2008. Over the next years, prices fell, reaching a low in March 2016 with the deflated FAO food price index close to pre-crisis level of 2006. Since then prices have been increasing, but as of 2017-05 they have not reached crisis levels again.\n\nThe initial causes of the late-2006 price spikes included droughts in grain-producing nations and rising oil prices. Oil price increases also caused general escalations in the costs of fertilizers, food transportation, and industrial agriculture. Root causes may be the increasing use of biofuels in developed countries (see also food vs fuel), and an increasing demand for a more varied diet across the expanding middle-class populations of Asia. The Food and Agriculture Organization also raised concerns about the role of hedge funds speculating on prices leading to major shifts in prices. These factors, coupled with falling world-food stockpiles, all contributed to the worldwide rise in food prices.\n\nBetween 2006 and 2008 average world prices for rice rose by 217%, wheat by 136%, corn by 125% and soybeans by 107%. In late April 2008 rice prices hit 24 cents (US) per US pound, more than doubling the price in just seven months.\n\nAlthough some commentators have argued that this food crisis stems from unprecedented global population growth, others point out that world population growth rates have dropped dramatically since the 1980s, and grain availability has continued to outpace population.\n\nTo prevent price growth, food production should outpace population growth, which was about 1.2% per year. But there was a temporary drop in food production growth: for example, wheat production during 2006 and 2007 was 4% lower than that in 2004 and 2005.\n\nWorld population has grown from 1.6 billion in 1900 to over 7.5 billion today.\n\nThe head of the International Food Policy Research Institute, stated in 2008 that the gradual change in diet among newly prosperous populations is the most important factor underpinning the rise in global food prices. Where food consumption has increased, it has largely been in processed (\"value added\") foods, sold in developing and developed nations. Total grain utilization growth since 2006 (up three percent, over the 2000–2006 per annum average of two percent) has been greatest in non-food usage, especially in feed and biofuels.\n\nOne kilogram of beef requires seven kilograms of feed grain. These reports, therefore, conclude that usage in industrial, feed, and input intensive foods, not population growth among poor consumers of simple grains, has contributed to the price increases. Rising meat consumption due to changes in lifestyle can in turn lead to higher energy consumption due to the higher energy-intensity of meat products, for example, one kilogram of meat uses about 19 times as much energy to produce it as the same amount of apple.\nAlthough the vast majority of the population in Asia remains rural and poor, the growth of the middle class in the region has been dramatic. For comparison, in 1990, the middle class grew by 9.7 percent in India and 8.6 percent in China, but by 2007 the growth rate was nearly 30 percent and 70 percent respectively. The corresponding increase in Asian affluence also brought with it a change in lifestyle and eating habits, particularly a demand for greater variety, leading to increased competition with western nations for already strained agricultural resources. This demand exacerbates dramatic increases in commodity prices such as oil.\n\nAnother issue with rising affluence in India and China was reducing the \"shock absorber\" of poor people who are forced to reduce their resource consumption when food prices rise. This reduced price elasticity and caused a sharp rise in food prices during some shortages. In the media, China is often mentioned as one of the main reasons for the increase in world food prices. However, China has to a large extent been able to meet its own demand for food, and even exports its surpluses in the world market.\n\nStarting in 2007, the prices of fertilizers of all kinds increased dramatically, peaking around the summer of 2008 (see graphs by the International Fertilizer Industry Association). Prices approximately tripled for ammonia, urea, diammonium phosphate, muriate of potash (KCl), and sulfuric acid (used for making phosphate fertilizer), and then fell just as dramatically in the latter part of 2008. Some prices doubled within the six months before April 2008. Part of the cause for these price rises was the rise in the price of oil, since the most fertilizers require petroleum or natural gas to manufacture. Although the main fossil fuel input for fertilizer comes from natural gas to generate hydrogen for the Haber–Bosch process (see: Ammonia production), natural gas has its own supply problems similar to those for oil. Because natural gas can substitute for petroleum in some uses (for example, natural gas liquids and electricity generation), increasing prices for petroleum lead to increasing prices for natural gas, and thus for fertilizer.\n\nCosts for fertilizer raw materials other than oil, such as potash, have been increasing as increased production of staples increases demand. This is causing a boom (with associated volatility) in agriculture stocks.\n\nThe major IFPRI Report launched in February 2011 stated that the causes of the 2008 global food crisis were similar to that of the 1972–74 food crisis, in that the oil price and energy price was the major driver, as well as the shock to cereal demand (from biofuels this time), low interest rates, devaluation of the dollar, declining stocks, and some adverse weather conditions. Unfortunately the IFPRI states that such shocks are likely to recur with several shocks in the future; compounded by a long history of neglecting agricultural investments.\n\nIn the past, nations tended to keep more sizable food stockpiles, but more recently, due to a faster pace of food growth and ease of importation, less emphasis is placed on high stockpiles. For example, in February 2008 wheat stockpiles hit a 60-year low in the United States (see also Rice shortage). Data stocks are often calculated as a residual between Production and Consumption but it becomes difficult to discriminate between a de-stocking policy choices of individual countries and a deficit between production and consumption.\n\nDestabilizing influences, including indiscriminate lending and real estate speculation, led to a crisis in January 2008, and eroded investment in food commodities.\n\nForeign investment drives productivity improvements, and other gains for farmers.\n\nGoldman Sachs' entry into the commodities market via the Goldman Sachs Commodity Index has been implicated by some in the 2007–2008 world food price crisis. In a 2010 article in Harper's magazine, Frederick Kaufman accused Goldman Sachs of profiting while many people went hungry or even starved. He argued that Goldman's large purchases of long-options on wheat futures created a demand shock in the wheat market, which disturbed the normal relationship between supply and demand and price levels. He argues that the result was a 'contango' wheat market on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, which caused prices of wheat to rise much higher than normal, defeating the purpose of the exchanges (price stabilization) in the first place. however, a report by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development – using data from the Commodity Futures Trading Commission – showed tracking funds (of which Goldman Sachs Commodity Index was one) did not cause the bubble. For example, the report points out that even commodities without futures markets also saw price rises during the period. Some commodities \"without\" futures markets saw their prices rise as a consequence of the rising prices of commodities \"with\" futures markets: the World Development Movement states there is strong evidence that the rising price of wheat caused the price of rice to subsequently rise as well.\n\nSome theorists, such as Martin Khor of the Third World Network, point out that many developing nations have gone from being food independent to being net food importing economies since the 1970s and 1980s International Monetary Fund (and later the World Trade Organization's Agreement on Agriculture) free market economics directives to debtor nations. In opening developing countries to developed world food imports subsidised by Western governments, developing nations can become more dependent upon food imports if local agriculture does not improve.\n\nWhile developed countries pressured the developing world to abolish subsidies in the interest of trade liberalization, rich countries largely kept subsidies in place for their own farmers. In recent years United States government subsidies have been added to push production toward biofuel rather than food and vegetables\n\nOne systemic cause for the price rise is held to be the diversion of food crops (maize in particular) for making first-generation biofuels. An estimated 100 million tons of grain per year are being redirected from food to fuel. (Total worldwide grain production for 2007 was just over 2000 million tons.) As farmers devoted larger parts of their crops to fuel production than in previous years, land and resources available for food production were reduced correspondingly.\n\nThis has resulted in less food available for human consumption, especially in developing and least developed countries, where a family's daily allowances for food purchases are extremely limited. The crisis can be seen, in a sense, to dichotomize rich and poor nations, since, for example, filling a tank of an average car with biofuel, amounts to as much maize (Africa's principal food staple) as an African person consumes in an entire year.\n\nBrazil, the world's second largest producer of ethanol after the US, is considered to have the world's first sustainable biofuels economy and its government claims Brazil's sugar cane based ethanol industry has not contributed to the 2008 food crises. A World Bank policy research working paper released in July 2008 concluded that \"...large increases in biofuels production in the United States and Europe are the main reason behind the steep rise in global food prices\", and also stated that \"Brazil's sugar-based ethanol did not push food prices appreciably higher\". An economic assessment published in July 2008 by the OECD disagrees with the World Bank report regarding the negative effects of subsidies and trade restrictions, finding that the effect of biofuels on food prices are much smaller.\n\nA report released by Oxfam in June 2008 criticized biofuel policies of rich countries and concluded that, of all biofuels available in the market, Brazilian sugarcane ethanol is \"far from perfect\" but it is the most favorable biofuel in the world in term of cost and GHG balance. The report discusses some existing problems and potential risks and asks the Brazilian government for caution to avoid jeopardizing its environmental and social sustainability. The report also says that: \"Rich countries spent up to $15 billion last year supporting biofuels while blocking cheaper Brazilian ethanol, which is far less damaging for global food security.\" (See Ethanol fuel in Brazil)\n\nGerman Chancellor Angela Merkel said the rise in food prices is due to poor agricultural policies and changing eating habits in developing nations, not biofuels as some critics claim. On 29 April 2008, US President George W. Bush declared during a press conference that \"85 percent of the world's food prices are caused by weather, increased demand and energy prices\", and recognized that \"15 percent has been caused by ethanol\". On 4 July 2008, \"The Guardian\" reported that a leaked World Bank report estimated the rise in food prices caused by biofuels to be 75%. This report was officially released in July 2008.\n\nSince reaching record high prices in June 2008, corn prices fell 50% by October 2008, declining sharply together with other commodities, including oil. As ethanol production from corn has continued at the same levels, some have argued this trend shows the belief that the increased demand for corn to produce ethanol was mistaken. \"Analysts, including some in the ethanol sector, say ethanol demand adds about 75 cents to $1.00 per bushel to the price of corn, as a rule of thumb. Other analysts say it adds around 20 percent, or just under 80 cents per bushel at current prices. Those estimates hint that $4 per bushel corn might be priced at only $3 without demand for ethanol fuel.\" These industry sources consider that a speculative bubble in the commodity markets holding positions in corn futures was the main driver behind the observed hike in corn prices affecting food supply.\n\nSecond- and third-generation biofuels (such as cellulosic ethanol and algae fuel, respectively) may someday ease the competition with food crops, as can grow on marginal lands unsuited for food crops, but these advanced biofuels require further development of farming practices and refining technology; in contrast, ethanol from maize uses mature technology and the maize crop can be shifted between food and fuel use quickly.\n\nThe World Bank lists the effect of biofuels as an important contributor to higher food prices. The FAO/ECMB has reported that world land usage for agriculture has declined since the 1980s, and subsidies outside the United States and EU have dropped since the year 2004, leaving supply, while sufficient to meet 2004 needs, vulnerable when the United States began converting agricultural commodities to biofuels. According to the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA), global wheat imports and stocks have decreased, domestic consumption has stagnated, and world wheat production has decreased from 2006 to 2008.\n\nIn the United States, government subsidies for ethanol production have prompted many farmers to switch to production for biofuel. Maize is the primary crop used for the production of ethanol, with the United States being the biggest producer of maize ethanol. As a result, 23 percent of United States maize crops were being used for ethanol in 2006–2007 (up from 6 percent in 2005–2006), and the USDA expects the United States to use 81 million tons of maize for ethanol production in the 2007–2008 season, up 37 percent. This not only diverts grains from food, but it diverts agricultural land from food production.\n\nNevertheless, supporters of ethanol claim that using corn for ethanol is not responsible for the worst food riots in the world, many of which have been caused by the price of rice and oil, which are not affected by biofuel use but rather by supply and demand.\n\nHowever, a World Bank policy research working paper released in July 2008 says that biofuels have raised food prices between 70 and 75 percent. The study found that higher oil prices and a weak dollar explain 25–30% of total price rise. The \"month-by-month\" five-year analysis disputes that increases in global grain consumption and droughts were responsible for price increases, reporting that this had had only a marginal effect and instead argues that the EU and US drive for biofuels has had by far the biggest effect on food supply and prices. The paper concludes that increased production of biofuels in the US and EU were supported by subsidies and tariffs on imports, and considers that without these policies, price increases would have been smaller. This research also concluded that Brazil's sugar cane based ethanol has not raised sugar prices significantly, and suggest to remove tariffs on ethanol imports by both the US and EU, to allow more efficient producers such as Brazil and other developing countries to produce ethanol profitably for export to meet the mandates in the EU and the US.\n\nThe Renewable Fuel Association (RFA) published a rebuttal based on the version leaked before the formal release of the World Bank's paper. The RFA critique considers that the analysis is highly subjective and that the author \"estimates the effect of global food prices from the weak dollar and the direct and indirect effect of high petroleum prices and attributes everything else to biofuels.\"\n\nAn economic assessment report also published in July 2008 by the OECD agrees with the World Bank report regarding the negative effects of subsidies and trade restrictions, but found that the effect of biofuels on food prices are much smaller. The OECD study is also critical of the limited reduction of GHG emissions achieved from biofuels produced in Europe and North America, concluding that the current biofuel support policies would reduce greenhouse gas emissions from transport fuel by no more than 0.8 percent by 2015, while Brazilian ethanol from sugar cane reduces greenhouse gas emissions by at least 80 percent compared to fossil fuels. The assessment calls on governments for more open markets in biofuels and feedstocks to improve efficiency and lower costs.\n\nAccording to the \"New York Times\" on 9 April 2008, the United States government pays farmers to idle their cropland under a conservation program. This policy reached a peak of idled in 2007, that is 8% of cropland in United States, representing a total area bigger than the state of New York.\n\nThe global food crisis has renewed calls for removal of distorting agricultural subsidies in developed countries. Support to farmers in OECD countries totals 280 billion USD annually, which compares to official development assistance of just 80 billion USD in 2004, and farm support depresses global food prices, according to OECD estimates. These agricultural subsidies lead to underdevelopment in rural developing countries, including the least developed countries; meanwhile subsidised food increases overconsumption in developed countries. The US Farm Bill brought in by the Bush Administration in 2002 increased agricultural subsidies by 80% and cost the US taxpayer 190 billion USD. In 2003, the EU agreed to extend the Common Agricultural Policy until 2013. Former UNDP Administrator Malloch Brown renewed calls for reform of the farm subsidies such as the CAP.\n\nJapan is forced to import more than 767,000 tons of rice annually from the United States, Thailand, and other countries due to WTO rules, although Japan produces over 100% of domestic rice consumption needs with 11 million tons produced in 2005 while 8.7 million tons were consumed in 2003–2004 period. Japan is not allowed to re-export this rice to other countries without approval. This rice is generally left to rot and then used for animal feed. Under pressure, the United States and Japan are poised to strike a deal to remove such restrictions. It is expected 1.5 million tons of high-grade American rice will enter the market soon.\n\nSeveral distinct weather- and climate-related incidents have caused disruptions in crop production. Perhaps the most influential is the extended drought in Australia, in particular the fertile Murray-Darling Basin, which produces large amounts of wheat and rice. The drought has caused the annual rice harvest to fall by as much as 98% from pre-drought levels.\n\nAustralia is historically the second-largest exporter of wheat after the United States, producing up to 25 million tons in a good year, the vast majority for export. However, the 2006 harvest was 9.8 million. Other events that have negatively affected the price of food include the 2006 heat wave in California's San Joaquin Valley, which killed large numbers of farm animals, and unseasonable 2008 rains in Kerala, India, which destroyed swathes of grain. These incidents are consistent with the effects of climate change.\n\nThe effects of Cyclone Nargis on Burma in May 2008 caused a spike in the price of rice. Burma has historically been a rice exporter, though yields have fallen as government price controls have reduced incentives for farmers. The storm surge inundated rice paddies up to inland in the Irrawaddy Delta, raising concern that the salt could make the fields infertile. The FAO had previously estimated that Burma would export up to 600,000 tons of rice in 2008, but concerns were raised in the cyclone's aftermath that Burma may be forced to import rice for the first time, putting further upward pressure on global rice prices.\n\nStem rust reappeared in 1998 in Uganda (and possibly earlier in Kenya) with the particularly virulent UG99 fungus. Unlike other rusts, which only partially affect crop yields, UG99 can bring 100% crop loss. Up to 80% yield losses were recently recorded in Kenya.\n\nAs of 2005 stem rust was still believed to be \"largely under control worldwide except in Eastern Africa\". But by January 2007 an even more virulent strain had gone across the Red Sea into Yemen. FAO first reported on 5 March 2008 that Ug99 had now spread to major wheat-growing areas in Iran.\n\nThese countries in North Africa and Middle East consume over 150% of their own wheat production; the failure of this staple crop thus adds a major burden on them. The disease is now expected to spread over China and the Far-East. The strong international collaboration network of research and development that spread disease-resistant strains some 40 years ago and started the Green Revolution, known as CGIAR, was since slowly starved of research funds because of its own success and is now too atrophied to swiftly react to the new threat.\n\nSundquist points out that large areas of croplands are lost year after year, due mainly to soil erosion, water depletion and urbanisation. According to him \"60,000 km/year of land becomes so severely degraded that it loses its productive capacity and becomes wasteland\", and even more are affected to a lesser extent, adding to the crop supply problem.\n\nAdditionally, agricultural production is also lost due to water depletion. Northern China in particular has depleted much of its non-renewables aquifers, which now impacts negatively its crop production.\n\nUrbanisation is another, smaller, difficult to estimate cause of annual cropland reduction.\n\nOne possible environmental factor in the food price crisis is rising background levels of ground-level tropospheric ozone in the atmosphere. Plants have been shown to have a high sensitivity to ozone levels, and lower yields of important food crops, such as wheat and soybeans, may have been a result of elevated ozone levels. Ozone levels in the Yangtze Delta were studied for their effect on oilseed rape, a member of the cabbage family that produces one-third of the vegetable oil used in China. Plants grown in chambers that controlled ozone levels exhibited a 10–20 percent reduction in size and weight (biomass) when exposed to elevated ozone levels. Production of seeds and oil was also reduced. The Chinese authors of this study also reported that rice grown in chambers that controlled ozone levels exhibited a 14 to 20 percent reduction in biomass yield when exposed to ozone levels over 25 times higher than was normal for the region.\n\nFrom the beginning of 2007 to early 2008, the prices of some of the most basic international food commodities increased dramatically on international markets. The international market price of wheat doubled from February 2007 to February 2008 hitting a record high of over US$10 a bushel. Rice prices also reached ten-year highs. In some nations, milk and meat prices more than doubled, while soy (which hit a 34-year high price in December 2007) and maize prices have increased dramatically.\n\nTotal food import bills rose by an estimated 25% for developing countries in 2007. Researchers from the Overseas Development Institute have suggested this problem will be worsened by a likely fall in food aid. As food aid is programmed by budget rather than volume, rising food prices mean that the World Food Programme (WFP) needs an extra $500 million just to sustain the current operations.\n\nTo ensure that food remains available for their domestic populations and to combat dramatic price inflation, major rice exporters, such as China, Brazil, India, Indonesia, Vietnam, Cambodia and Egypt, imposed strict export bans on rice. Conversely, several other nations, including Argentina, Ukraine, Russia, and Serbia either imposed high tariffs or blocked the export of wheat and other foodstuffs altogether, driving up prices still further for net food importing nations while trying to isolate their internal markets. North Korea suffered from the food crisis to such extent that a North Korean official was quoted in June '08 with saying \"Life is more than difficult. It seems that everyone is going to die\". This nation however is solely relying on food assistance to cope with the crisis.\nA May 2008 national survey found that food banks and pantries across the US were being forced to cut back on food distribution as 99 percent of respondents reported an increase in the number of people requesting services. Rising food and fuel prices, inadequate food stamp benefits, unemployment, underemployment, and rent or mortgage costs were factors reported as forcing an average of 15–20 percent more people. Compounding this issue, USDA bonus foods have declined by $200 million and local food donations were down nationally about 9 percent over the same period. According to the California Association of Food Banks, which is an umbrella organization of nearly all food banks in the state, food banks are at the \"beginning of a crisis.\"\n\nIf global price movements are transmitted to local markets, farmers in the developing world could benefit from the rising price of food. According to researchers from the Overseas Development Institute, this may depend on farmers' capacity to respond to changing market conditions. Experience suggests that farmers lack the credit and inputs needed to respond in the short term. In the medium or long term, however, they could benefit, as seen in the Asian Green Revolution or in many African countries in the recent past.\n\nAs grain prices increased, China's numerous small-holding milk farmers, as well as producers of feed for cattle, were unable to exist economically. As a result, they turned to putting additives into the feed and milk, including melamine, to boost the measured level of protein. Hundreds of thousands of children became ill, China's milk exports virtually ended, executives and officials were arrested and some executed, and companies went bankrupt.\n\nThe price rises affected parts of Asia and Africa particularly severely with Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Senegal, Mauritania, Côte d'Ivoire, Egypt and Morocco seeing protests and riots in late 2007 and early 2008 over the unavailability of basic food staples. Other countries that have seen food riots or are facing related unrest are: Mexico, Bolivia, Yemen, Uzbekistan, Bangladesh, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, and South Africa.\n\n10,000 workers rioted close to the Bangladeshi capital Dhaka, smashing cars and buses and vandalising factories in anger at high food prices and low wages. Dozens of people, including at least 20 police officials, were injured in the violence. Ironically, the country achieved food self-sufficiency in 2002, but food prices increased drastically due to the reliance of agriculture on oil and fossil fuels.\n\nEconomists estimate 30 million of the country's 150 million people could go hungry.\n\nIn April 2008, the Brazilian government announced a temporary ban on the export of rice. The ban is intended to protect domestic consumers.\n\nOne of the earlier food riots took place in Burkina Faso, on 22 February, when rioting broke out in the country's second and third largest cities over soaring food prices (up to a 65 percent increase), sparing the capital, Ouagadougou, where soldiers were mobilized throughout strategic points. The government promised to lower taxes on food and to release food stocks. Over 100 people were arrested in one of the towns. Related policy actions of the Burkinabe government included:\n\nA ban was also imposed on exportation of cereals.\n\nCameroon, the world's fourth largest cocoa producer, saw large scale rioting in late February 2008 in Douala, the country's commercial capital. Protesters were against inflating food and fuel prices, as well as the attempt by President Paul Biya to extend his 25-year rule. Protesters set up barricades, burned tires, and targeted businesses that they believed belonged to the Biya family, high members of the ruling party, the government, or France. It became the first protest in the nation's history in which minute- by-minute events were covered by social media. By 27 February, a strike was taking place in thirty-one cities, including Yaoundé, Douala, Bamenda, Bafoussam, Buea, Limbe, Tiko, Muea, Mutengene, and Kumba. At least seven people were killed in the worst unrest seen in the country in over fifteen years. This figure was later increased to 24. Youths were mobilized in ways that had not been seen since the days of the villes mortes. Part of the government response to the protests was a reduction in import taxes on foods including rice, flour, and fish. The government reached an agreement with retailers by which prices would be lowered in exchange for the reduced import taxes. As of late April 2008, however, reports suggested that prices had not eased and in some cases had even increased.\n\nOn 24 April 2008, the government of Cameroon announced a two-year emergency program designed to double Cameroon's food production and achieve food self-sufficiency.\n\nOn 31 March, Côte d'Ivoire's capital Abidjan saw police use tear gas and a dozen protesters injured following food riots that gripped the city. The riots followed dramatic hikes in the price of food and fuel, with the price of beef rising from US$1.68 to $2.16 per kilogram, and the price of gasoline rising from $1.44 to $2.04 per liter, in only three days.\n\nIn Egypt, a boy was killed from a gunshot to the head after Egyptian police intervened in violent demonstrations over rising food prices that gripped the industrial city of Mahalla on 8 April 2008. Large swathes of the population have been hit as food prices, and particularly the price of bread, have doubled over the last several months as a result of producers exploiting a shortage that has existed since 2006.\n\nDrought and the food price crisis threatened thousands in Ethiopia.\n\nOn 12 April 2008, the Haitian Senate voted to dismiss Prime Minister Jacques-Édouard Alexis after violent food riots hit the country. The food riots caused the death of 5 people. Prices for food items such as rice, beans, fruit and condensed milk have gone up 50 percent in Haiti since late 2007 while the price of fuel has tripled in only two months. Riots broke out in April due to the high prices, and the government had been attempting to restore order by subsidizing a 15 percent reduction in the price of rice. As of February 2010, post-earthquake Port-au-Prince is almost entirely reliant on foreign food aid, some of which ends up in the black markets.\n\nIndia has banned the export of rice except for Basmati which attracts a premium price.\n\nThe ban has since been removed, and India now exports a variety of rice. \n\nStreet protests over the price of food took place in Indonesia where food staples and gasoline have nearly doubled in price since January 2008.\n\nIn April 2008, the Latin American members of the United Nations' Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) met in Brasília to confront the issues of high food prices, scarcities and violence that affect the region.\n\nThe President of Mexico, Felipe Calderón, with industry representatives and members of the Confederation of Industrial Chambers (Concamin), agreed to freeze prices of more than 150 consumer staples, such as coffee, sardines, tuna, oil, soup or tea, among others, until the end of December 2008. The measure was carried out in an attempt to control inflation, which stood at an annual rate of 4.95%, the highest increase since December 2004.\n\nMexican baking company Grupo Bimbo's CEO, Daniel Servitje, announced in the 19th Plenary Meeting of the Mexico–China Business Committee that Bimbo agreed to freeze their product prices, despite a 20% rise in production costs. Bimbo is one of the most important baking companies worldwide, having recently expanded to China. Bimbo has also acquired five bakeries in the United States and Canada.\n\nIn mid February, rioting that started in the Mozambican rural town of Chokwe and then spread to the capital, Maputo, has resulted in at least four deaths. The riots were reported in the media to have been, at least in part, over food prices and were termed \"food riots.\" A biofuel advocacy publication, however, claimed that these were, in fact, \"fuel riots\", limited to the rise in the cost of diesel, and argued that the \"food riot\" characterization worked to fan \"anti-biofuels sentiment.\"\n\nThe Pakistan Army has been deployed to avoid the seizure of food from fields and warehouses. This hasn't stopped the food prices from increasing. The new government has been blamed for not managing the countries food stockpiles properly.\n\nOnce the world's top rice producer, has produced enough rice to feed itself until now. Rice exports dropped over four decades from nearly 4 million tons to only about 40,000 tons last year, mostly due to neglect by Myanmar's ruling generals of infrastructure, including irrigation and warehousing.\nOn 3 May 2008 Cyclone Nargis stripped Myanmar's rice-growing districts, ruining large areas with salt water. U.N. Food and Agriculture Organization estimates that these areas produce 65 percent of Myanmar's rice. Worries of long-term food shortages and rationing are rife. The military regime says nothing about the rice crisis, but continues to export rice at the same rate.\n\n\"...at least the next two harvests are going to be greatly affected and there'll be virtually no output from those areas during that time. So we're likely to see considerable food and rice shortages for the next couple of years. The damage to the economy is going to be profound.\" said economist and Myanmar expert Sean Turnell, of Australia's Macquarie University. (interviewed in \"The Irriwaddy\", Tuesday, 27 May 2008)\n\nIn Panama, in response to higher rice prices the government began buying rice at the high market price and selling rice to the public at a lower subsidized price at food kiosks.\n\nIn the Philippines, the Arroyo government insisted on 13 April that there would be no food riots in the country and that there could be no comparison with Haiti's situation. Chief Presidential Legal Counsel, Sergio Apostol stated that: \"Haiti is not trying to solve the problem, while we are doing something to address the issue. We don't have a food shortage. So, no comparison...\" Comments by the Justice Secretary, Raul Gonzalez, the following day, that food riots are not far fetched, were quickly rebuked by the rest of the government.\n\nOn 15 April, the Philippines, the world's largest rice importer, urged China, Japan, and other key Asian nations, to convene an emergency meeting, especially taking issue with those countries' rice export bans. \"Free trade should be flowing\", Philippine Agriculture Secretary Arthur Yap stated. In late April 2008, the Philippines government requested that the World Bank exert pressure on rice exporting countries to end export restrictions.\n\nThe Russian government pressured retailers to freeze food prices before key elections for fear of a public backlash against the rising cost of food in October 2007. The freeze ended on 1 May 2008.\n\nOn 31 March 2008, Senegal had riots in response to the rise in the price of food and fuel. Twenty-four people were arrested and detained in a response that one local human rights group claimed included \"torture\" and other \"unspeakable acts\" on the part of the security forces. Further protests took place in Dakar on 26 April 2008.\n\nRiots in Somalia occurred on 5 May 2008 over the price of food, in which five protesters were killed. The protests occurred amid a serious humanitarian emergency due to the Ethiopian war in Somalia.\n\n\"The Christian Science Monitor\", neweurasia, and other media observers are predicting that a nascent hunger crisis will erupt into a full famine as a consequence of the energy shortages. UN experts announced on 10 October that almost one-third of Tajikistan's 6.7 million inhabitants may not have enough to eat for the winter of 2008–09.\n\nFood riots in southern Yemen that began in late March and continued through early April, saw police stations torched, and roadblocks were set up by armed protesters. The army has deployed tanks and other military vehicles. Although the riots involved thousands of demonstrators over several days and over 100 arrests, officials claimed no fatalities; residents, however, claimed that at least one of the fourteen wounded people has died.\n\nThe UN (FAO) released a study in December 2007 projecting a 49 percent increase in African cereal prices, and 53 percent in European prices, through July 2008. In April 2008, the World Bank, in combination with the International Monetary Fund, announced a series of measures aimed at mitigating the crisis, including increased loans to African farmers and emergency monetary aid to badly affected areas such as Haiti. According to FAO director Jacques Diouf, however, the World Food Programme needed an immediate cash injection of at least $1700 million, far more than the tens of million-worth in measures already pledged. On 28 April 2008, the United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon established a Task Force on the Global Food Security Crisis under his chairmanship and composed of the heads of the United Nations specialized agencies, funds and programmes, Bretton Woods institutions and relevant parts of the UN Secretariat to co-ordinate efforts to alleviate the crisis.\n\n2013 research concluded that the spike was the result of an unusual combination of circumstances and prices in the future will be higher than before the spike, depending on oil prices, climate change, and future diets. The impacts of the spike on poor people were concentrated in low-income countries and may have been less severe than once thought, thanks to rising rural wages in some countries. The researchers called on developing countries to ensure good data on the key indicators of distress and to strengthen social protection, and on those involved in international development to continue increasing focus on reducing child malnutrition and stimulating agricultural development.\n\nIFAD is making up to US$200 million available to support poor farmers boost food production in face of the global food crisis.\n\nOn 2 May 2008, US President George W. Bush said he was asking Congress to approve an extra $770 million funding for international food aid. On 16 October 2008, in a speech at a United Nations gathering on World Food Day, former US president Bill Clinton criticized the bipartisan coalition in Congress that blocked efforts to make some aid donations in cash rather than in food. Referring in part to policies that had pressured African governments to reduce subsidies for fertilizer and other agricultural inputs, Clinton also said:We need the World Bank, the IMF, all the big foundations, and all the governments to admit that, for 30 years, we all blew it, including me when I was President. We were wrong to believe that food was like some other product in international trade, and we all have to go back to a more responsible and sustainable form of agriculture.The release of Japan's rice reserves onto the market may bring the rice price down significantly. As of 16 May, anticipation of the move had already lowered prices by 14% in a single week.\n\nOn 30 April 2008 Thailand announced the creation of the Organization of Rice Exporting Countries (OREC) with the potential to develop a price-fixing cartel for rice. This is seen by some as an action to capitalise on the crisis.\n\nIn June 2008 the Food and Agriculture Organization hosted a High-Level Conference on World Food Security, in which $1.2 billion in food aid was committed for the 75 million people in 60 countries hardest hit by rising food prices.\n\nIn June 2008, a sustained commitment from the G8 was called for by some humanitarian organizations.\n\nIn December 2008, the global economic slowdown, decreasing oil prices, and speculation of decreased demand for commodities worldwide brought about sharp decreases in the price of staple crops from their earlier highs. Corn prices on the Chicago Board of Trade dropped from US$7.99 per bushel in June to US$3.74 per bushel in mid-December; wheat and rice prices experienced similar decreases. The UN's Food and Agriculture Organization, however, warned against \"a false sense of security\", noting that the credit crisis could cause farmers to reduce plantings. FAO convened a World Summit on Food Security at its headquarters in Rome in November 2008, noting that food prices remained high in developing countries and that the global food security situation has worsened.\n\nBy early 2011, food prices had risen again to surpass the record highs of 2008. Some commentators saw this as the resumption of the price spike seen in 2007–08. Prices had dropped after good weather helped increase grain yields while demand had dropped due to the recession.\n\n"}
{"id": "26528420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26528420", "title": "ACM/IEEE Supercomputing Conference", "text": "ACM/IEEE Supercomputing Conference\n\nSC (formerly Supercomputing), the International Conference for High Performance Computing, Networking, Storage and Analysis, is the name of the annual conference established in 1988 by the Association for Computing Machinery and the IEEE Computer Society. In 2016, about 11,000 people participated overall. The not-for-profit conference is run by a committee of approximately 600 volunteers who spend roughly three years organizing each conference.\n\nNot to be confused with the International Supercomputing Conference, now known as ISC High Performance, or ICS, the ACM SIGARCH International Conference on Supercomputing.\n\nSC is sponsored by the Association for Computing Machinery and the IEEE Computer Society. From its formation through 2011, ACM sponsorship was managed through ACM's Special Interest Group on Computer Architecture (SIGARCH). Sponsors are listed on each proceedings page in the ACM DL; see for example. Beginning in 2012, ACM began the process of transitioning sponsorship from SIGARCH to the recently formed Special Interest Group on High Performance Computing (SIGHPC). This transition was completed after SC15, and for SC16 ACM sponsorship was vested exclusively in SIGHPC (IEEE sponsorship remained unchanged). The conference is non-profit.\n\nThe conference is governed by a steering committee that includes representatives of the sponsoring societies, the current conference general chair, the general chairs of the preceding two years, the general chairs of the next two conference years, and a number of elected members. All steering committee members are volunteers, with the exception of the two representatives of the sponsoring societies, who are employees of those societies. The committee selects the conference general chair, approves each year's conference budget, and is responsible for setting policy and strategy for the conference.\n\nAlthough each conference committee introduces slight variations on the program each year, the core components of the conference remain largely unchanged from year to year.\n\nThe SC Technical Program is competitive with an acceptance rate around 20% for papers (see History). Traditionally, the program includes invited talks, panels, research papers, tutorials, workshops, posters, and Birds of a Feather (BoF) sessions.\n\nEach year, SC hosts the following conference and sponsoring society awards:\n\n\nIn addition to the technical program, SC hosts a research exhibition each year that includes universities, state-sponsored computing research organizations (such as the Federal labs in the US), and vendors of HPC-related hardware and software from many countries around the world. There were 353 exhibitors at SC16 in Salt Lake City, UT.\n\nSC's program for students has gone through a variety of changes and emphases over the years. Beginning with SC15 the program is called \"Students@SC\", and is oriented toward undergraduate and graduate students in computing related fields, and computing-oriented students in science and engineering. The program includes professional development programs, opportunities to learn from mentors, and engagement with SC's technical sessions.\n\nSCinet is SC's research network. Started in 1991, SCinet features emerging technologies for very high bandwidth, low latency wide area network communications in addition to operational services necessary to provide conference attendees with connectivity to the commodity Internet and to many national research and engineering networks.\n\nSince its establishment in 1988, and until 1995,\nthe full name of the conference was the \"ACM/IEEE Supercomputing Conference\" (sometimes: \"ACM/IEEE Conference on Supercomputing\"). The conference's abbreviated (and more commonly used) formal name was \"Supercomputing 'XY\", where XY denotes the last two digits of the year. In 1996, according to the archived front matter of the conference proceedings,\nthe full name was changed to the ACM/IEEE \"International Conference on\nHigh Performance Computing and Communications\". The latter document\nfurther announced that, as of 1997, the conference will undergo a name\nchange and will be called \"SC97: High Performance Networking and\nComputing\". The document explained that\n\nA 1997 HPCwire article discussed at length the reasoning,\nconsiderations, and concerns that accompanied the decision to change\nthe name of the conference series from \"Supercomputing 'XY\" to \"SC\n'XY\",\nstating that\n\nDespite these concerns, the abbreviated name of the conference, \"SC\",\nis still used today, a reminiscent of the abbreviation of the \nconference's original name—\"Supercomputing Conference\".\n\nThe full name, in contrast, underwent several changes.\nBetween 1997 and 2003,\nthe name \"High Performance Networking and Computing\" was specified in\nthe front matter of the archived conference proceedings in some years\n(1997, 1998, 2000, 2002), whereas in other years it was omitted\naltogether in favor of the abbreviated name (1999, 2001, 2003).\nIn 2004,\nthe stated front matter full name was changed to \"High Performance\nComputing, Networking and Storage Conference\".\nIn 2005,\nthis name was replaced by the original name of the conference—\"supercomputing\"—\nin the front matter. \nFinally, in 2006,\nthe current full name, as used today, emerged: \"The International Conference for High Performance Computing, Networking, Storage and Analysis\".\n\nDespite all of the name variances in the proceedings through the years, the digital library of ACM, the co-sponsoring society, records the name of the conference as \"The ACM/IEEE Conference on Supercomputing\" from 1998 - 2008, when it changes to \"\"The International Conference for High Performance Computing, Networking, Storage and Analysis\". It is these two names that are used in the full citations to the conference proceedings provided in this article.\n\nThe table below provides the location, name of the general chair, and acceptance statistics for each year of SC. \"Note that references for data in these tables apply to data preceding the reference to the left on the same row; for example, for SC17 the single reference substantiates all the information in that row, but for SC05 the source for the convention center and chair is different than the source for the acceptance statistics.\"\n\nThe following table details the keynote speakers during the history of the conference; as of SC17, 20% of the keynote speakers have been female, with a mix of speakers from corporate, academic, and national government organizations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48338276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48338276", "title": "Actor Tour", "text": "Actor Tour\n\nThe Actor Tour is the second tour by American musician and singer/songwriter St. Vincent. The tour centered on her second album, \"Actor\" (2009).The tour began in the Great American Music Hall in 2009 and concluded at Teatro de la Ciudad in 2010.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1755232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1755232", "title": "Albert Einstein: The Practical Bohemian", "text": "Albert Einstein: The Practical Bohemian\n\nAlbert Einstein: The Practical Bohemian is a stage play that is the only show officially endorsed by the Einstein family. A quote from Albert Einstein's first cousin said that the family \"felt as though they were in the presence of their dear cousin Albert.\" The one-man show opened in 1978 written and performed by actor-writer Ed Metzger in Los Angeles, California. \n\nSince that time, he has presented it throughout the world, including the Kennedy Center in Washington, D.C.. The show, co-written by Metzger's wife Laya Gelff, is a portrayal is about the man as well as the scientist, creating a portrait of one of the 20th Century's greatest minds, but who harbored dreams of being a solo violinist. The show highlights the curiosity that drove Einstein to seek answers to the mysteries of the universe. It shows his struggle as a pacifist, threatened by anti-semitism and forced to flee Germany, and eventually disappointed that his scientific discoveries were used in the creation of nuclear weapons.\n\n"}
{"id": "51795177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51795177", "title": "Boris Epshteyn", "text": "Boris Epshteyn\n\nBoris Alexandrovich Epshteyn (; born August 14, 1982) is a Russian-born American Republican political strategist, investment banker, and attorney. He is currently the Chief Political Analyst at Sinclair Broadcast Group. He was a senior advisor to Donald Trump's 2016 campaign for President of the United States, and previously worked on the McCain-Palin campaign. Following Trump's election, he was named director of communications for the Presidential Inaugural Committee, and then assistant communications director for surrogate operations in the administration, until he resigned in March 2017.\n\nEpshteyn was born in 1982 in Moscow, Soviet Union, the son of Anna Shulkina and Aleksandr Epshteyn. His family is Russian Jewish. In 1993, he immigrated with his family to Plainsboro Township, New Jersey.\n\nEpshteyn is a graduate of Georgetown University School of Foreign Service (BSFS, 2004). During his time as an undergraduate at Georgetown, Epshteyn became a brother of the Eta Sigma chapter of the Alpha Epsilon Pi (AEPi) fraternity. He graduated from the Georgetown University Law Center with a law degree.\n\nFollowing his graduation from law school, Epshteyn was part of the finance practice of Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy New York. He worked on securities transactions, private placements, and bank finance.\n\nIn 2008, Epshteyn was a communications aide with the McCain-Palin campaign. While at the campaign, he was part of a rapid response task force which concentrated on issues related to the vice presidential nominee Sarah Palin.\n\nEpshteyn was managing director of business and legal affairs at the boutique investment bank West America Securities Corporation until the firm was expelled from the Financial Industry Regulatory Agency in 2013. He is managing director of business and legal affairs for investment banking firm TGP Securities. In October 2013, Epshteyn moderated a panel at the investment conference \"Invest in Moscow!\" The panel was composed mainly of Moscow city government officials, including Sergey Cheremin, a city minister who heads Moscow's foreign economic and international relations department.\n\nDuring the 2016 U.S. presidential campaign, Epshteyn acted as a senior advisor to the Donald Trump campaign, making frequent television appearances as a Trump media surrogate on Trump's behalf.\n\nIn September 2016, Epshteyn responded to a question from MSNBC's Hallie Jackson by offering a new explanation for why a portrait of Trump – paid for by the Donald J. Trump Foundation – wound up on display at Trump National Doral Miami, a Trump-owned for-profit golf resort in Florida. Epshteyn said, \"There are IRS rules which specifically state that when a foundation has an item, an individual can store those items – on behalf of the foundation – in order to help it with storage costs... And that's absolutely proper.\" Epshteyn's explanation was, in effect, that Trump hadn't used his foundation to buy some art for his resort, which would be self-dealing. Instead, Trump's resort was helping the foundation – which has no employees or office space of its own – to store one of its possessions.\n\nIn September 2016, the media watchdog organization Media Matters for America criticized CNN, Fox News, and PBS for failing to disclose Epshteyn's \"financial ties to the former Soviet Union, which include consulting through Strategy International LLC for 'entities doing business in Eastern Europe' and moderating a Russian-sponsored conference on 'investment opportunities in Moscow.'\"\n\nIn an October 2016 \"New York Times\" article, three political commentators said in separate interviews that Epshteyn \"often acted in a rude, condescending manner toward show staffers, makeup artists and others.\" Joy Reid, an MSNBC show host, said \"Boris is abrasive. That is who he is both on the air and off.\" \n\nEpshteyn co-hosted the Trump Campaign Facebook Live coverage before and after the final presidential debate. He also anchored \"Trump Tower Live\", the Trump Campaign Facebook live nightly program.\n\nEpshteyn became a special assistant in the Trump administration as it took office. He wrote Trump's controversial statement for Holocaust Remembrance Day in January 2017, which omitted any mention of the Jewish people. Following criticism of the omission, press secretary Sean Spicer defended the statement as written by \"an individual who is both Jewish and the descendent of Holocaust survivors.\" At the end of March 2017, it was reported that unnamed sources had said Epshteyn was resigning.\n\nIn mid-April 2017, Sinclair announced it had hired Epshteyn as its senior political analyst. Regarding the appointment, Scott Livingston at Sinclair said in part, \"We understand the frustration with government and traditional institutions.\" Epshteyn said in part, \"I greatly admire Sinclair’s mission to provide thoughtful impactful reporting throughout the country.\" At the time, \"Variety\" also noted Jared Kushner's December 2016 revelation of discussions between the Trump campaign and the company and content provided to the company which, the report said, Sinclair had \"vehemently denied\".\n\nEpshteyn married Lauren Tanick Epshteyn, a sales manager at Google, in 2009. They have one child. \n\nEpshteyn was reported to be a friend of Eric Trump, who also attended Georgetown.\n\nFollowing a bar fight in Scottsdale, Arizona, in 2014, Epshteyn was charged with misdemeanor assault. The charge was dropped after he agreed to undergo anger management counseling and perform community service.<ref name=\"NYT\"\n"}
{"id": "880534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=880534", "title": "CASCAR Super Series", "text": "CASCAR Super Series\n\nThe CASCAR Super Series was Canada's premier stock car touring division. It was sanctioned by CASCAR. The series ended after the 2006 season after NASCAR purchased CASCAR. NASCAR used the series as the basis for the NASCAR Canadian Tire Series, and currently called the Nascar Pinty's Series.\n\n\nhttp://www.CanadianRacingOnline.com has a lot of CASCAR related articles\n"}
{"id": "20479983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20479983", "title": "Captain Prabhakaran", "text": "Captain Prabhakaran\n\nCaptain Prabhakaran is a 1991 Tamil-language Indian action film directed by R. K. Selvamani. It features Vijayakanth in the lead role. It also features Mansoor Ali Khan, Rupini, Livingston and Ramya Krishnan, while R. Sarathkumar appears in a cameo role. It was Vijayakanth's 100th film, after which he earned the Sobriquet \"captain\". The character of the antagonist Veerabhadran, played by Mansoor Ali Khan, is loosely based on the forest brigand Veerappan. The title of the film was inspired from Velupillai Prabhakaran, the leader of the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam. Upon its release, the film became a blockbuster at the box office. The film score and soundtrack were composed by Ilaiyaraaja. The film was dubbed and released in Telugu as \"Captain Prabhakar\".\nCaptain Prabhakaran (Vijayakanth) is an IFS officer (Indian Forest Service) sent to Sathyamangalam to nab Veerabhadran (Mansoor Ali Khan) who tortures the people of that place. Prabhakaran is not only going to nab Veerabhadran, but also avenge the death of his friend Rajaraman IFS (R. Sarathkumar) who was a forest officer killed by Veerabhadran. The police commissioner and the district collector are corrupt and also support Veerabhadran. In the climax, Veerabhadran kidnaps Prabhakaran's wife and son. Prabhakaran arrives at the right time and saves his wife and son. He then nabs Veerabhadran. Poongudi (Ramya Krishnan) was Rajaraman's lover. She dies while giving birth to his child. Veerabhadran is shot dead by the corrupt inspector and collector. Prabhakaran kills both of them. He is then dragged to court for killing the police inspector and the collector. Prabhakaran tells the truth that they were corrupt, and the film ends with Prabhakaran being released from the court.\n\n\nAfter the success of \"Pulan Visaranai\", Rowther decided to make another project with Vijayakanth and Selvamani titled \"Captain Prabhakaran\", the plotline of the film was based on the forest brigand Veerappan. The film also was the 100th project of Vijayakanth. The filming was held at Chalakudy for 60 days. The film had Mansoor Ali Khan in his first major role. During the shoot, a rope to which Vijayakanth was bound snapped and his shoulder got dislocated. With both his hands tied he screamed in pain, but this was mistaken for acting, and as a result, there was a delay in getting medical assistance.\n\nThe soundtrack has only two songs composed by Ilaiyaraaja while the lyrics were written by Gangai Amaran and Piraisoodan. The song \"Aattama Therottama\" is set in the carnatic raga known as Sindhu Bhairavi. It was later remixed by Prasanna Sekhar in \"Singakutty\" (2008).\n"}
{"id": "1106111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1106111", "title": "Concert tour", "text": "Concert tour\n\nA concert tour (or simply tour) is a series of concerts by an artist or group of artists in different cities, countries or locations. Often concert tours are named to differentiate different tours by the same artist and to associate a specific tour with a particular album or product (for example: U2's The Joshua Tree Tour named after the album). Especially in the popular music world, such tours can become large-scale enterprises that last for several months or even years, are seen by hundreds of thousands or millions of people, and bring in millions of dollars (or the equivalent) in ticket revenues. A performer who embarks on a concert tour is called a touring artist.\n\nDifferent segments of longer concert tours are known as \"legs\". The different legs of a tour are denoted in different ways, dependent on the artist and type of tour, but the most common means of separating legs are dates (especially if there is a long break at some point), countries and/or continents, or different opening acts. In the largest concert tours it is becoming more common for different legs to employ separate touring production crews and equipment, local to each geographical region. Concert tours are often administered on the local level by concert promoters or by performing arts presenters. Usually, small concert tours are managed by a road manager whereas large concert tours are managed by a tour manager.\n\nThe major challenge in concert tours is how to move the performance's logistics from one venue to another venue, especially for a transcontinental tour. Tour logistics should be very organized and everything has to happen on time and in the right order as planned. \"Autoweek\" magazine estimated 30 to 50 trucks were required by Taylor Swift's 1989 World Tour to bring all the stage, sound equipment, instruments, props, and clothes. When Beyoncé visited the United Kingdom with her 2016 Formation World Tour, it took seven Boeing 747 air freighters and a fleet of more than 70 trucks to get her stage set and other gear to the venues. The logistics phase of that tour didn't include transportation of the backstage staff, musicians, performers, and the singer herself.\n\nRock-It Cargo is one of the company that provided freight forwarding for some of the biggest names in music, such as Bruce Springsteen, Madonna, and The Police. Before the start of a tour, Rock-It Cargo had to move gear to a central location—either a rehearsal spot or the site of the first engagement. Then it arranged to transport whatever gear the band requires from one venue to the next. The company's vice president, Ed Butler, said \"We use different freight modes—local trucking, cross-country trucking, air freight, and ocean freight. We also provide import, export, customs clearance, carnets (a document that allows a shipper—including a band—to move equipment across international boundaries and clear customs without paying duties)—everything a tour would need.\"\n\n, the highest-grossing concert tour of all time is U2 360 Tour, with gross revenues of $736,137,344. The second highest-grossing concert tour of all time is The Rolling Stones' A Bigger Bang Tour, which earned approximately $558 million between 2005 and 2007. Madonna's Sticky & Sweet Tour, which earned $408 million in 2008 and 2009 was the highest-earning tour by a female artist. According to the 2014 report from \"Billboard\" Boxscore, six acts having made over US$ 1 billion in touring since 1990 were the Rolling Stones, U2, Bruce Springsteen, Madonna, Coldplay and Bon Jovi.\n\nGlobal touring revenue reported to \"Billboard\" Boxscore exceeded $5.5 billion in 2016. Due to the collapse of record sales in the 21st century, concert tours have became a major income for recording artists. Besides the tickets, touring also generates money from the sales of merchandise and meet-and-greet package.\n\nThe mobility of concert tours requires a lot of costs, times, and energy. British singer Adele expressed her unhappiness of concert tours, saying \"Touring is a peculiar thing, it doesn't suit me particularly well. I'm a real homebody and I get so much joy in the small things.\" A concert residency concept is offered as an alternative to performers. As opposed to the concert tour, the concert residency consists of multiple shows in one location.\n\nThe 2015 study by charity Help Musicians UK found that over 60% of musicians suffered from depression or other psychological issues, with touring an issue for 71% of respondents.\n\n"}
{"id": "5131972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5131972", "title": "Decoding the Past", "text": "Decoding the Past\n\nDecoding the Past (2005–2008) is a History Channel paranormal television series that \"decodes\" the past by looking for unusual, and mysterious things written about throughout history that may give clues as to what will happen in the future.\n\n"}
{"id": "574721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=574721", "title": "Eve (Xena: Warrior Princess)", "text": "Eve (Xena: Warrior Princess)\n\nEve/Livia is a fictional character created by Robert Tapert for the popular TV series \"\". She is portrayed by Adrienne Wilkinson as an adult and as a baby by infant actors. She is loosely based on Livia Drusilla who was the wife of the Roman emperor Augustus.\n\nEve is the daughter of Xena and younger sister of , born of a miraculous conception after Xena and Gabrielle encounter a deity called the \"God of Light\". When Xena chooses to save her former enemy, Callisto, from eternal suffering, the redeemed spirit of Callisto allows her to conceive a child, who is then selected to be her reincarnation.\n\nBefore her birth, Xena's unborn daughter is prophesied by the Fates to become the Bringer of Twilight, the human who will bring about the end of the rule of the Olympian gods. Zeus attempts to kill Xena and her child before this happens, but is thwarted by his son Hercules, who kills him with a rib of Cronus. Xena delivers the baby with Gabrielle's help in the shade of a tree, moments after Zeus's demise. Xena names the girl Eve, a name that her deceased son suggested upon seeing him in the underworld. Meanwhile, Athena becomes the leader of the Olympian gods, and they continue their ceaseless persecution of the infant Eve. Driven to desperation, Xena and Gabrielle fake their own deaths, and that of Eve, by staging a fatal crash, then taking a sleeping draught in a manner similar to the ploy in Romeo and Juliet. They intend to awaken shortly afterwards, but the plan goes awry when , believing them to be dead, buries Xena and Gabrielle in an ice cave on Mount Etna as great warriors and leaves Xena's sword and chakram. Eve remains in the custody of Xena's friend Octavius, who proceeds to take her to Rome and sends her to the provinces to be educated.\n\nTwenty-five years later, Xena and Gabrielle awaken to discover that Octavius has become the Roman Emperor Augustus Caesar, and Eve is now a brutal warrior known as \"Livia\", the Champion of Rome. She is the protégée and lover of Ares, but is intending to marry Augustus and thus become the empress. Xena sets about trying to stop her daughter from massacring innocent people, and in the process inadvertently exposes Livia's identity to the gods, who resume their persecution of her as the Bringer of Twilight. She feels conflicted when Eve murders Xena's old friend Joxer.\n\nLivia is reformed when 's spirit shows her various moments of Xena taking care of her when she was a baby, and learns that her mother truly did care for her. The reformed Livia once again takes on the name of Eve, and intends to become the Messenger of Eli, who taught pacifism and independence from the Olympian gods. While Eve is initiated into the sect of Eli, the God of Eli gives Xena the power to kill gods as long as Eve is alive. This development causes the Olympians to redouble their efforts to kill Xena and her daughter, bringing about their own demise when Xena goes up against them with her newly acquired power. Ares and survive, having remained neutral during the ordeal. However, Ares gives up his powers and immortality to save Eve and Gabrielle.\n\nAfter the Twilight of the Gods, Eve travelled with Xena and Gabrielle. As such, she appears in the first four episodes of season six. According to an interview with Adrienne Wilkinson, the episode \"Coming Home\" took place a year after the events in \"Motherhood\".\n\nAfter \"Who's Gurkhan?\" Eve apparently returned to Rome, though no explanation was provided for her absence. In fact, while Xena seemed to know where Eve was, Gabrielle didn't, as seen in \"The God You Know\" where Gabrielle seems surprised to learn Eve is in Rome.\n\nEve challenges the emperor, Caligula, in \"The God You Know\" in regards to his slaughter of the Elijans. She is nearly killed by Caligula, but Xena arrives in time to defeat him and save Eve.\n\nEve is seen briefly in \"You Are There\" being interviewed by a news reporter Nigel.\n\nEve's final appearance in the series was in the episode \"Path of Vengeance\" in which she returns to the land of Varia's tribe of Amazons in order to atone for her attack on them six years prior. Varia, now leading the multiple Amazon tribes that have gathered from around the known world, captures Eve in order to make her stand trial. Marga had apparently banished Eve after \"Coming Home\" with the threat of death if she returned. Varia, having lost her little sister at Livia's hand during the attack on her village, is after Eve's life.\n\nIt is revealed in this episode, that the Amazons she captured as slaves (as stated in \"Coming Home\"), she had tossed overboard with their shackles still on when she was unable to sell them to Gurkhan.\n\nGabrielle challenges Varia for leadership of the Amazons in order to save Eve's life when she is found guilty, but loses. Xena challenges Varia to a fight before she can execute Eve, and in doing so, she shows Varia that she has become like Livia, which leads Varia to stop her actions, and pardon Eve (stating Livia is dead).\n\nAt the end of the episode, Eve parts ways with Xena and Gabrielle, heading to China a to continue to spread the message of Eli. Xena offers to go with her, but Eve states she needs to do it on her own, and departs.\n\nThere is a hint of Eve having children as stated in the episode \"The Xena Scrolls\", Professor Pappas and Melinda Pappas to be descendants of Xena in the 1940s, as she is Xena's only living offspring.\n\nLivia made two appearances in season six. One was as a vision seen by Eve, caused by the king of Hell, Mephistopheles, in order to torment Eve, hoping to get her to spill her blood in order to release him into the world in the episode \" The Haunting of Amphipolis.\" Livia was also seen in flashbacks in \" Path of Vengeance\" when she attacked Varia's tribe.\n\nEve possesses excellent combat prowess; comprehensively trained by from early childhood to fight in his name. (Hand-to-hand combat, all sorts of weapons but mostly swords) She is established as an extremely dangerous individual, and is more than capable of taking a stand against even the most skilled and dangerous of opponents, such as the and her mother.\n\nChakram Skills: In the episode \"Eve\", she was able to stop the Chakram when Xena threw it at her by cutting it into two pieces. In the next episode \"Motherhood\", Eve caught the Chakram.\n\nAcrobatic Skills: Aside from other acrobatic skills almost all well-trained warriors have in the show, Eve (Livia) has her own \"trademark\" moves: in the episode \"Coming Home\" as well as in the episode \"Path of Vengeance\", Eve (Livia) made a flip that only she knew how to do; this was revealed by Varia: '\"I've seen only one warrior do that move...\"' and which actually helped her to recognize the woman as being the former Livia—the Champion of Rome.\n\nCommander: Being the former commander of the Roman Legions, Eve (Livia) holds her previously acquired knowledge of political and historical facts.\n\nHeavenly Abilities: After Eve was initialized as the Messenger of the God of Light, she received a number of abilities that are channelled from Heaven. In the episodes \"The Haunting of Amphipolis\" and \"Heart of Darkness\", Eve was shown casting evil spirits back to Hell and healing a human who was taken by demons.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5719126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5719126", "title": "Fantasporto", "text": "Fantasporto\n\nFantasporto, also known as Fantas, is an international film festival, annually organized since 1981 in Porto, Portugal. Giving screen space to fantasy/science fiction/horror-oriented commercial feature films, auteur films and experimental projects from all over the world, Fantasporto has created enthusiastic audiences, ranging from cinephiles to more popular spectators, with an annual average of 110,000 attendees. It was rated in \"Variety\" as one of the 25 leading festivals of the world.<ref name=\"http://www.fantasporto.com/\"></ref> In its 27th edition in February 2006 the festival reached 104,000 people and 5,000 media references, both domestic and international, with a record of 187 hours of TV time. Present in Porto were about 100 members of the foreign press and about 250 Portuguese journalists and media representatives.\n\nIn spite of being organized by a private entity, the event is mostly state funded, with the Ministry of Culture of Portugal leading and the President of the Republic as head of the Honour Committee, along with several private sponsors.\n\nThe 2019 festival will be held February 22nd- March 2nd 2019.\n\n\nThe Grande Prémio Fantasporto is the highest prize awarded at the Fantasporto Film Festival and is presented to the director of the best feature film of the official competition.\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki>\n\n\nThe Best Actor Award () is an award presented at Fantasporto. It is chosen by the jury from the 'official section' of movies at the festival. It was first awarded in 1982.\n\nThe Best Actress Award () is an award presented at Fantasporto. It is chosen by the jury from the 'official section' of movies at the festival. It was first awarded in 1982.\n\nThe Best Screenplay Award () is an award presented at Fantasporto. It is chosen by the jury from the 'official section' of movies at the festival.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1922382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1922382", "title": "Fence (criminal)", "text": "Fence (criminal)\n\nA fence, also known as a receiver, mover, or moving man, is an individual who knowingly buys stolen goods in order to later resell them for profit. The fence acts as a middleman between thieves and the eventual buyers of stolen goods who may not be aware that the goods are stolen. As a verb, the word describes the behaviour of the thief in the transaction: \"The burglar fenced the stolen radio\". This sense of the term came from thieves' slang, first attested c. 1700, from the notion of such transactions providing a \"defence\" against being caught. The term remains in common use in all major dialects of modern English, all of which spell it with a \"c\" even though the source word in some dialects (particularly American English) is now spelled \"defense.\"\n\nThe fence is able to make a profit with stolen merchandise because he/she is able to secretly pay thieves a very low price for \"hot\" goods that cannot be easily sold on the open markets. The thieves who patronize the fence are willing to accept a low profit margin in order to reduce their risks by instantly \"washing their hands\" of the black market loot and disassociating themselves from the criminal act that procured it. After the sale, the fence recoups their investment by disguising the stolen nature of the goods (via methods such as repackaging and altering/effacing serial numbers) and reselling the goods as near to the white market price as possible without drawing suspicion. This process often relies on a legal business (such as a pawnshop, flea market or street vendor) in order to \"launder\" the stolen goods by intermixing them with legally-purchased items of the same type. Fencing is illegal in all countries, but legally proving a violation of anti-fencing laws can be difficult.\n\nThe fence is able to make a profit with stolen merchandise because he is able to pay thieves a very low price for stolen goods. Thieves agree to this because their alternatives may present a greater risk of the thief being caught. As well, selling stolen goods takes a great deal of time and effort (transaction costs), as the thief would have to try to contact a number of potential buyers and show them the merchandise. Some habitual thieves are so well known to police that if the thief were to attempt to sell any used goods, this would quickly draw the attention of law enforcement.\n\nThe fence then disguises the stolen nature of the goods, if possible, so that he or she can sell them closer to the market price. Depending on the stolen item, the fence may attempt to remove, deface, or replace serial numbers on the stolen item before reselling it. In some cases, fences will transport the stolen items to a different city to sell them, because this lessens the likelihood that the items will be recognized. For some types of stolen goods, fences disassemble the good and sell the individual parts, because the sale of parts is less risky. For example, a stolen car or bicycle may be disassembled so that the parts can be sold individually. Another tactic used by some fences is to retain stolen items for some time before selling them, which lessens the likelihood that the burglary victims or police will be actively looking for the items in auctions and pawnshops.\n\nFencing is often conducted through legal businesses. Some fences maintain a legitimate-seeming \"front\" through which they can sell stolen merchandise. Depending on the type of stolen merchandise a fence deals in, \"front\" businesses might be discount stores, used goods stores, a coin and gem store, auction house, flea market, or auto salvage yards. The degree of illicit activity in each \"front\" business may differ from fence to fence. While one fence's salvage yard may consist mainly of stolen auto parts, another fence's used goods store might consist mainly of legitimately purchased used goods, with the stolen merchandise acting as a minor, but profitable, sideline.\n\nThe prices fences pay thieves typically depend both on norms and on legitimate market rates for the items in question. Vulnerable sellers, such as drug addicts or casual thieves, may receive less than 20% of an item's value. Higher prices, sometimes as high as 50% of an item's value in a legal market, can be commanded by a professional thief, especially one who concentrates on valuable items. At the same time, fences will often take advantage of thieves by deceiving them about the value of an individual item and the relevant market conditions. For example, a fence may falsely tell a petty thief that the market for the type of good which the thief is selling is flooded with this type of merchandise, to justify paying out a lower price.\n\nResearch on fences shows that they view themselves as entrepreneurs, relying on networking with and patronage by prominent criminals to become successful in their word-of-mouth-based \"wheeling and dealing\". They occupy the middle ground between the criminal world (thieves, burglars and shoplifters) and the legitimate world (e.g., everyday people who purchase used goods). Some active fences go farther in their business, maintaining longstanding contacts and even teaching thieves how to practice their craft, whether by identifying specific products or by teaching them tools of the trade.\n\nThere are a number of different types of fences. One way of categorizing fences is by the type of good in which they trade, such as jewels, power tools, or electronics. Another way of categorizing fences is by their level of involvement in buying and selling stolen goods; for some, fencing is an occasional \"sideline\" activity, while it is an economic mainstay for others. At the lowest level, a hustler or drug dealer may occasionally accept stolen goods. At the highest level would be a fence whose main criminal income comes from buying and selling stolen items. At the broadest level, two tiers of fences can be distinguished. The lower level of fences are those who directly buy stolen goods from thieves and burglars. At a higher level are the \"master fences\", who do not deal with street-level thieves, but only with other fences.\n\nThe degree to which the purchasers of the stolen goods know or suspect that the items are stolen varies. If a purchaser buys a high-quality item for a low price, in cash, from a stranger at a bar or from the back of a van, there is a higher likelihood that the items may be stolen. On the other hand, if a purchaser buys the same high-quality item for the standard retail price from a used goods store, and obtains a proper receipt, the purchaser may reasonably believe that the item is not stolen (even if, in fact, it is a stolen item).\n\nThe fence, or receiver, is an old kind of criminal, historically attested in many countries and with deep and complex dynamics within society.\n\nReceiving was a widespread crime in Modern England and an increasingly crucial concern for the English government of that period. It involved many other kinds of activities and crimes, and it saw its peak in the early 18th century with the notorious Jonathan Wild. Receiving is intrinsically connected to theft, as receivers, by definition, buy previously stolen goods in order to make profit out of them later. When organised theft grew increasingly important in London thanks to largely supportive receivers, the establishment started to fight it off with new laws, often aimed at receivers: receiving was acknowledged as the very core of property crime.\n\nReceiving was not considered as a felony (crime) in common law until 1691, when fences became potential targets of charges as accessories to theft. This meant that in order to judge a suspected receiver, it was necessary to condemn the related thief first. Later laws further focused on receivers, especially the 1718 Transportation Act, which, together with other measures, made fences main felons and not simply accessories to other felonies. Nonetheless, it was not easy to prove that a dealer knowingly accepted stolen goods, especially without the related theft event being fully cleared out.\nProceedings stored in the Old Bailey Online archive where the offence category is receiving are 5664. Of these, 1973 have a verdict category of guilty.\n\nThe 1718 Transportation Act also made a felony of returning goods for a fee, revealing that by then, receiving had already been widely taken to the next stage: returning goods to their owner, for a fee, instead of selling them in the second-hand market. Thieves could act as go-betweens themselves, but go-betweens could raise some suspicions, while relying on receivers added a safety layer against effective prosecution. A victim of theft was often willing to pay in order to get his goods back, in order to spare himself further troubles and/or if the items taken had the potential to reveal unflattering details about his personal affairs. In addition to that, for many centuries, prosecution in England was entirely at the expense (of personal money, time and effort) of the prosecutor. Therefore, also considering the difficulty of actually proving receiving in courts, common people, especially shopkeepers, often preferred compounding, feeling that prosecuting was not worth it. This gave a considerable advantage to receivers.\n\nIn order to effectively act as go-betweens for compounding, or brokers, fences needed to personally know thieves or have ways to easily interact and bargain with them for a common benefit about compounding: nobody was in a better position to do so than thief-takers. Thief-takers grew increasingly notorious in England as a reward was introduced by the Crown for each successfully condemned criminal. Some of them, such as Anthony Dunn, publicly referred to as \"pretended Thiefe-taker\" in a 1707 document, used their social power as thief-takers as an advantage for receiving. Thief-takers were usually so involved with thieves and gangs of thieves that they could easily condemn them for the reward, or use this power to intimidate and command thieves to do their biddings: in exchange of clemency or protection from capture or condemnation, they could have thieves to steal under their command. Indeed, thief-takers could act as direct instigators, supporting their thieves with intelligence or offering them shelter at need (when convenient), and then act as receivers with the stolen goods. Through parallel occupations, receivers could feed their own business.\n\nConfirmation of how thief-taking and receiving were tightly connected could be seen in the career of Charles Hitchen, who was known as a thief-taker. He bought off the position of Under City Marshal through his wife's money in order to have one of the best positions amongst the thief-takers of the City. However, a vast part of his income actually came from the receiving activity related to the network of connections with London's underworld. Hitchen controlled this network through his official (that is to say, legal) position as a thief-taker.\n\nThe synergy between receiving, theft and corruption, as well as official activities such as thief-taking or pawnbroking was a huge dynamic bond where each element enhanced the others in a vicious circle.\n\nThe master of this powerful synergy of London underworld was Jonathan Wild, who rapidly replaced his previous master, Charles Hitchen, in 1713, and rapidly gained control of London's crime and the title of \"thief-taker general\". His power was due to his ruthless thief-taking and intimidation activities as well as a complex web of intelligence also built around the diffusion of newspapers. However, overly bold receiving was his undoing, as it grew so large and complex a matter to prompt the English government to promote further laws against receiving and related activities, such as the Transportation Act in 1718, also known as \"Jonathan Wild Act\", and its extension in 1720, which made returning goods for a fee a felony of the same importance and punishment as the crime (theft) related to the goods returned (which meant a capital offence in most cases, with raised potential reward for definitive evidence, from £40 to £140). Eventually, the government decided to directly take action against Wild through lawyers, succeeding in condemning and executing him in 1725.\n\nThere is no registered case of female fences of the same fame of Wild or Hitchen. However, women had active roles in both receiving and theft. Elizabeth Hitchen, Hitchen's wife, gave her inheritance money to her husband in order to buy the Under City Marshal office for his plans. Moreover, women could also be active fences. For example, Elizabeth Fisher managed her own receiving business in her husband's alehouse.\nProceedings stored in the Old Bailey Online archive where the offence category is receiving are 5664. Of these, 1858 have a defendant gender category of female.\n\nReceiving grew increasingly important in Early Modern society, and combined with the increasing interest of society on reading, it became the source for many writers, such as Daniel Defoe, with Moll Flanders and John Gay, with The Beggar's Opera. \nThese works reflect how receiving was conceived and portrayed by authors.\n\n\"Moll Flanders\" is a novel intended to narrate the whole life of its protagonist, referred to as Moll Flanders, but a relevant part of it is about her becoming a master thief. Moll's activity as a thief largely relied on the protection and support of her governess, who acted also as a receiver for the goods stolen by her affiliates. She is the one who buys Moll's stolen goods the first time, as Moll narrates \"I was now at a loss for a market for my goods,[...] At last I resolved to go to my old governess.\" Therefore, the governess character sealed Moll's fate as a thief, and eventually taught her the basics of thievery redirecting Moll to work with other senior thieves. With these events, Defoe shows how crucial as well as subtle receiving was in building the whole of crime activity in London.\n\nThe Governess is officially a pawnbroker, and she uses this legal business to recycle stolen goods into the secondary market. Sometimes, such as in the case of a silver inscribed mug stolen by Moll, she smelts metals, in order to avoid getting caught while re-selling. Along with receiving activity, she actively protects and support many criminals and thieves in order to secure a steady income to her activity.\n\nThe same governess goes on in protecting and offering refuge to her affiliates whenever possible, or recruiting thieves into small groups, always via middlemen, in order to protect their thieves' identities in case some of them were caught and willing to confess.\n\nShe is also a main intelligence source and often a direct instigator to theft such as in a case of fire in a well-off house in the neighbourhood (more vulnerable to theft because of the sudden emergency), and finally becomes a broker for goods stolen by Moll to a drunken gentleman. In that case, the amount gained is allegedly greater than what she would have gained by standard re-selling in the secondary market.\n\nThe Governess embodies female social cunning in London's underworld, from Defoe's point of view. She is a typical receiver of her time, and whereas many male receivers used thief-taking as an official business, she relies on pawnbroking.\n\nFencing is illegal almost everywhere, usually under a similar rationale as in the United States, where receipt of stolen property is a crime in every state, as well as a federal crime if the property crossed a state line. Occasionally federal agents will temporarily set up a false fence sting operation. Fencing is a common source of income for organized crime. In England and Wales, as in many U.S. states, the crime requires three elements: stolen property, the receiver's act of receiving or hiding it, and his knowledge of its stolen status.\n\nPawnbrokers have often been associated with fencing, though in many jurisdictions, government identification must be shown in order to pawn an item and police regularly check pawnshops for stolen goods and repossess any stolen items. While pawnbrokers do not like this characterization of their business, police efforts have indicated that some pawnbrokers are involved in fencing.\n\nE-fencing is the sale of items on the Internet that have been obtained illegally. It is an activity that criminals often mix with sales to pawnbrokers. The auction website eBay, being easy to reach for the average thief, is a popular location for e-fencing; customers reported more than eight thousand crimes from the website in 2008, many of which involved the sale of stolen property. Classified websites like Craigslist, AutoTrader.com, Pennysaver online, etc. are some of the Internet sources used for fencing goods online and circumventing the middleman fencer, in addition to a number of illegal darknet markets.\n\nE-fenced items may be shoplifted or otherwise stolen, alternatively they may be purchased using stolen credit cards or similar banking information. The latter practice is often intertwined with carding, which is the trafficking of thousands or even millions of stolen credit card numbers. The sale of stolen credit cards, which usually takes place on the darknet markets, is generally considered to be a form of e-fencing in its own right, and often plays a role in supplying the data used to purchase physical goods that may be either e-fenced themselves or fenced through more traditional means.\n\nCrime rings steal and/or use stolen financial information to pay for in-demand items from retailers and then sell them online, relying on the Internet's ability to reach buyers around the world and its anonymity; some theft rings even take pre-orders, confident that they can steal and/or fraudulently pay for whatever is currently in demand. In the United States, major retailers such as Wal-Mart and Target have advocated for federal legislation to combat Internet fencing. Proposals for such legislation have often proposed requiring major sales websites (e.g. eBay and Amazon.com) to retain some items' serial numbers and to release information to retailers about major sellers whom the retailers believe to be relying on stolen property. Such proposals have been opposed by the online retailers who would be required to maintain these records and take these actions.\n\nAn eBay spokesman has stated, \"Perhaps the dumbest place to try to fence stolen materials is on eBay,\" and news agencies have reported incidents of the police purchasing stolen property directly from thieves, leading to their capture. By early 2007, e-fencing had become a $37 billion business.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37569084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37569084", "title": "Forced pregnancy", "text": "Forced pregnancy\n\nForced pregnancy is the practice of forcing a woman to become pregnant, often as part of a forced marriage, or as part of a programme of breeding slaves, or as part of a programme of genocide. When a forced pregnancy leads to reproduction, it is a form of reproductive coercion.\n\nFemale prisoners of Unit 731 were forced to become pregnant for use in experiments.\n\nThe practices of bride kidnapping and forced marriage typically (with the exception of purely symbolic \"bride kidnappings\" which are actually consensual elopements) involve the rape of the \"bride\" with the intention of forcing her to become pregnant, putting her in a position where she becomes dependent on the rapist and his family and, because of cultural attitudes toward rape, unable to return to her own family.\n\nDuring the period of slavery in the United States, many slave owners attempted to influence the reproduction of slaves in order to increase the wealth of slaveholders.\n\nSlave breeding included coerced sexual relations between male and female slaves, promoting pregnancies of slaves, sexual relations between master and slave with the aim of producing slave children, and favoring female slaves who produced a relatively large number of children.\n\nThe purpose of slave breeding was to produce new slaves without incurring the cost of purchase, to fill labor shortages caused by the termination of the Atlantic slave trade, and to attempt to improve the health and productivity of slaves. Slave breeding was condoned in the South because slaves were considered to be subhuman chattels, and were not entitled to the same rights accorded to free persons.\n\nRape, sexual slavery, and related actions including forced pregnancy and sexual slavery, are now recognized under the Geneva Convention as crimes against humanity and war crimes; in particular from 1949, Article 27 of the Fourth Geneva Convention, and later also the 1977 Additional Protocols to the 1949 Geneva Conventions, explicitly prohibit wartime rape and enforced prostitution. The Rome Statute Explanatory Memorandum, which defines the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court, recognises rape, sexual slavery, forced prostitution, and forced pregnancy as crimes against humanity if part of a widespread or systematic practice.\n\nThe International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda identified rape as capable of amounting to genocide when used systematically or on a mass scale to destroy a people; later the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia also categorized rape as capable of being a crime against humanity. In 2008 the U.N. Security Council's resolution 1820 identified such acts as capable of being \"war crimes, crimes against humanity or ... genocide\". Despite these measures, rape, whether systematic or otherwise, remains widespread in conflict zones.\n\n"}
{"id": "58006979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58006979", "title": "French entry into World War I", "text": "French entry into World War I\n\nFrance entered World War I on August 3, 1914, when Germany declared war. France played only a small part in the diplomatic crisis of July 1914–its top leaders were out of the country from July 15 to July 29, when most of the critical decisions were taken. Austria and Germany deliberately acted to prevent the French and Russian leadership from communicating during the last week in July. But this made little difference as French policy in strong support of Russia had been locked in. Germany realized that a war with Russia meant a war with France, and so its war plans called for an immediate attack on France – through Belgium – hoping for a quick victory before the slow-moving Russians could become a factor. France was a major military and diplomatic player before and after the July crisis, and every power paid close attention to its role. Historian Joachim Remak says:\n\nAs the French ambassador to Germany (1907-1914) Jules Cambon worked hard to secure a friendly détente. He was frustrated by French leaders such as Raymond Poincaré, who decided Berlin was trying to weaken the Triple Entente of France, Russia and Britain, and was not sincere in seeking peace. The French consensus was that war was inevitable.\n\nThe war arose from conflict between two alliances: the Triple Alliance of Germany, Austria and Italy, and the Triple Entente of France, Russia and Britain. France had had a military alliance with Russia since 1894, designed primarily to neutralize the German threat to both countries. Germany had a military alliance with Austria-Hungary. In June 1914, Archduke Franz Ferdinand, the heir to the Austrian throne, was assassinated. The government of Austria decided to destroy Serbia once and for all, for stirring up trouble among ethnic Slavs. Berlin (Germany) secretly gave Austria a blank check, promising to support it militarily no matter what it decided. Both countries wanted a localized war, Austria versus Serbia. They mistakenly assumed that would no other powers would intervene, and failed to negotiate with Russia, France, and England to make sure the war remained localized. Unexpectedly, Russia decided to intervene to protect Serbia, a small fellow Slavic nation, despite there being no treaty requiring Russia to do so. The Tsar had the support of the President of France, who otherwise was hardly involved. Russia mobilized its army against Austria. Germany declared war on Russia and France, and invaded France through Belgium. Britain had an understanding and military and naval planning agreements with France, but no formal treaty obligations. Britain did have a treaty obligation toward Belgium, and as a result Britain joined France and Russia (the Allies) and declared war on Germany and Austria (the Central Powers). Japan, allied with Britain, joined the Allies. The Ottoman Empire (Turkey) joined the Central Powers. Italy, instead of joining Germany and Austria-Hungary with whom it had treaties, entered the war on the side of the Allies in 1915. The United States tried unsuccessfully to broker peace negotiations, and entered the war on the Allied side in April 1917. After very heavy losses on both sides, the Allies were decisively victorious, and divided the spoils of victory, such as the German and Ottoman colonies. France was a winner, while the German, Russian and Ottoman Empires disintegrated.\n\nBy the late 1880s Bismarck's League of the Three Emperors was in disarray. Germany remained closely allied to Austria-Hungary (since 1879) but there was growing friction between Russia and Austria-Hungary. Bismarck, in the hope of making the Tsar more amenable to his wishes, had forbidden German banks to lend money to Russia. French bankers quickly replaced the Germans in financing Russia, and helped to speed Russian industrialisation. The Russians had borrowed around 500 million francs by 1888. Bismarck signed a Reinsurance Treaty with Russia in 1887, but after Bismarck's fall from power in 1890 Kaiser William II refused Russia's request to renew it. \n\nThe advantage of a Franco-Russian alliance was clear to all Frenchmen: France would not be alone against Germany, for it promised a two-front war. Formal visits were exchanged between the two powers in 1890 and 1891, and the Russian Tsar saluted the French national anthem, La Marseillaise. The Franco-Russian alliance was announced in 1894. This diplomatic coup was followed by a secret agreement with Italy, allowing the Italians a free hand to expand in Tripoli (modern Libya, then still under Turkish rule). In return, Italy promised she would remain non-belligerent against France in any future war. Meanwhile, as Britain became increasingly anxious over the German naval buildup and industrial rivalry, agreement with France became increasingly attractive.\n\nFrance competed with Britain, and to a lesser extent with Italy, for control of Africa. There was constant friction between Britain and France over borders between their respective African colonies (see the Fashoda Incident). The French Foreign Minister Théophile Delcassé was aware that France could not progress if she was in conflict with Germany in Europe and Britain in Africa, and so recalled Captain Marchand's expeditionary force from Fashoda, despite popular protests. This paved the way for Britain joining France in World War I.\n\nEdward VII's visit to Paris in 1903 stilled anti-British feeling in France, and prepared the way for the Entente Cordiale. Initially however, a colonial agreement against the Kaiser's aggressive foreign policy deepened rather than destroyed the bond between the two countries. The Moroccan Crises of 1905 and 1911 encouraged both countries to embark on a series of secret military negotiations in the case of war with Germany. However, British Foreign Minister Edward Grey realized the risk that small conflicts between Paris and Berlin could escalate out of control. Working with little supervision from the British Prime Minister or Cabinet, Grey deliberately played a mediating role, trying to calm both sides and thereby maintain a peaceful balance of power. He refused to make permanent commitments to France. He approved military staff talks with France in 1905, thereby suggesting, but not promising, that if war broke out Britain would favour France over Germany. In 1911, when there was a second Franco-German clash over Morocco, Grey tried to moderate the French while supporting Germany in its demand for compensation. There was little risk that Britain would have conflicts with anyone leading to war. The Royal Navy remained dominant in world affairs, and remained a high spending priority for the British government. The British Army was small, although plans to send an expeditionary force to France had been developed since the Haldane Reforms. From 1907 through 1914, the French and British armies collaborated on highly detailed plans for mobilizing a British Expeditionary Force of 100,000 combat troops to be very quickly moved to France, and sent to the front in less than two weeks. Grey insisted that world peace was in the best interests of Britain and the British Empire. \n\nFrance could strengthen its position in the event of war by forming new alliances or by enlisting more young men. It used both methods. Russia was firmly in the same camp, and Britain was almost ready to join. In 1913 the controversial \"three year law\" extended the term of conscription for French draftees from two to three years. Previously young men were in training at ages 21 and 22 then joined the reserves; now they were in training at ages 20, 21, and 22.\n\nWhen the war began in 1914, France could only win if Britain joined with France and Russia to stop Germany. There was no binding treaty between Britain and France, and no moral commitment on the British part to go to war on France's behalf. The Liberal government of Britain was pacifistic, and also extremely legalistic, so that German violation of Belgium neutrality – treating it like a scrap of paper – helped mobilize party members to support the war effort. The decisive factors were twofold, Britain felt a sense of obligation to defend France, and the Liberal Government realized that unless it did so, it would collapse either into a coalition, or yield control to the more militaristic Conservative Party. Either option would likely ruin the Liberal Party. When the German army invaded Belgium, not only was neutrality violated, but France was threatened with defeat, so the British government went to war. \n\nMounting international tensions and the arms race led to the need to increase conscription from two to three years. Socialists, led by Jean Jaurès, deeply believed that war was a capitalist plot and could never be beneficial to the working man. They worked hard to defeat the conscription proposal, often in cooperation with middle-class pacifists and women's groups, but were outvoted. \n\nThe critical issue for France was its relationship with Germany. Paris had relatively little involvement in the Balkan crisis that launched the war, paying little attention to Serbia, Austria, or the Ottoman Empire. However a series of unpleasant diplomatic confrontations with Germany soured relationships. The defeat in 1870-71 rankled, especially the loss of Alsace and Lorraine. Although the issue of Alsace-Lorraine faded in importance after 1880, the rapid growth in the population and economy of Germany left France increasingly far behind. It was obvious that Germany could field more soldiers, and build more heavy weapons. In the 1890s relationships remained good as Germany supported France during its difficulties with Britain over African colonies. Any lingering harmony collapsed in 1905, when Germany took an aggressively hostile position on French claims to Morocco. There was talk of war, and France strengthened its ties with Britain and Russia. Even critics of French imperialism, such as Georges Clemenceau, had become impatient with Berlin. Raymond Poincaré's speeches as Prime Minister in 1912, and then as President in 1913-14, were similarly firm and drew widespread support across the political spectrum. Only the socialists were holdouts, warning that war was a capitalist ploy and should be avoided by the working class. In July 1914, socialist leader Jean Jaurès obtained a vote against war from the French Socialist Party Congress. 1,690 delegates supported a general strike against the war (so long as the German socialists followed suit), with 1,174 opposed. However Jaurès was assassinated on 31 July, and the socialist parties in both France and Germany – as well as most other countries – strongly supported their national war effort in the first year.\n\nJules Cambon, the French ambassador to Berlin (1907-1914), worked hard to secure a detente but French leaders decided Berlin was trying to weaken the Triple Entente and was not sincere in seeking peace. The French consensus was that war was inevitable.\n\nAs in all the major powers, a handful of men made the critical decisions in the summer of 1914. \nPresident Raymond Poincaré was the most important decision maker, a highly skilled lawyer with a dominant personality and a hatred for Germany. He increasingly took charge of foreign affairs, but often was indecisive. René Viviani became Prime Minister and Foreign Minister in spring 1914. He was a cautious moderate, but was profoundly ignorant of foreign affairs, and was baffled by what was going on. The main decisions were made by the foreign office and increasingly by the president. Jules Cambon, the French ambassador to Berlin (1907-1914), was the one major French leader who worked for détente with Germany. The ambassador to Russia Maurice Paléologue hated Germany and reassured Russia that France would fight alongside her against Germany.\n\nThe central policy goal for Poincaré was maintaining the close alliance with Russia, which he achieved by a week-long visit to St. Petersburg in mid-July 1914. French and German leaders were closely watching the rapid rise in Russian military and economic power and capability. For the Germans, this deepened the worry often expressed by the Kaiser that Germany was being surrounded by enemies whose power was growing. One implication was that time was against them, and a war happening sooner would be more advantageous for Germany than a war happening later. For the French, there was a growing fear that Russia would become significantly more powerful than France, and become more independent of France, possibly even returning to its old military alliance with Germany. The implication was that a war sooner could count on the Russian alliance, but the longer it waited the greater the likelihood of a Russian alliance with Germany that would doom France.\n\nOn 28 June 1914, the world was surprised, but not especially alarmed, by news of the assassination of the Archduke Franz Ferdinand in Sarajevo. The July crisis began on 23 July 1914 with the Austro-Hungarian ultimatum to Serbia, containing brutal terms intended to inspire rejection. The crisis was caused not by the assassination but rather by the decision in Vienna to use it as a pretext for a war with Serbia that many in the Austrian and Hungarian governments had long advocated. A year before, it had been planned that French President Raymond Poincaré would visit St Petersburg in July 1914 to meet Tsar Nicholas II. The Austro-Hungarian Foreign Minister, Count Berchtold, decided it was too dangerous for Austria-Hungary to present the ultimatum while the Franco-Russian summit was in progress, and decided to wait until Poincaré was on board the battleship that would take him home, so that he could not easily coordinate with Russia. \n\nAt the time of the St Petersburg summit, there were rumours, but little hard evidence, that Vienna might use the assassination to start a war with Serbia. War did not appear imminent when President Poincaré and his new Prime Minister René Viviani departed by ship for St Petersburg on 15 July, arrived on 20 July and departed for home on 23 July. The meetings were centrally concerned with the crisis unfolding in central Europe. Although Viviani was also foreign minister, he was unfamiliar with foreign affairs and said little. Poincaré was fully in charge of the French side of the discussions. Throughout the visit, he was aggressively hostile toward Germany, and cared little for Serbia or Austria.\n\nThe French and the Russians agreed that their alliance extended to supporting Serbia against Austria, confirming the already established policy behind the Balkan inception scenario. As Christopher Clark notes, \"Poincaré had come to preach the gospel of firmness and his words had fallen on ready ears. Firmness in this context meant an intransigent opposition to any Austrian measure against Serbia. At no point do the sources suggest that Poincaré or his Russian interlocutors gave any thought whatsoever to what measures Austria-Hungary might legitimately be entitled to take in the aftermath of the assassinations\". \n\nVienna and Berlin both wanted to keep the confrontation localized to the Balkans, so that Austria would be the only major power involved. They neglected to negotiate on this point, and indeed systematically deceived the potential adversaries. Thus the delivery of the Austrian ultimatum to Serbia was deliberately scheduled for a few hours after the departure of the French delegation from Russia on 23 July, so that France and Russia could not coordinate their responses. There was a false assumption that if France were kept in the dark, it would nevertheless have a moderating influence and thus localize the war. Just the opposite took place: without coordination Russia assumed it had France's full support, so Austria was sabotaging its own hopes for localization. In St Petersburg, most Russian leaders sensed that their national strength was gaining on Germany and Austria, so that it would be prudent to wait until they were stronger. However, they decided that Russia would lose prestige, and forfeit its chance to take a strong leadership role in the Balkans. They might be stronger in a future confrontation, but at present they had France as an ally, and the future was unpredictable. So Tsar Nicholas II decided to mobilize on the southwestern flank against Austria to deter Vienna from an invasion of Serbia. Christopher Clark states: \"The Russian general mobilisation [of 30 July] was one of the most momentous decisions of the July crisis. This was the first of the general mobilisations. It came at the moment when the German government had not yet even declared the State of Impending War\". Germany now felt threatened and responded with her own mobilisation and declaration of war on 1 August 1914.\n\nAll these decisive moves and counter moves took place while Poincaré was slowly returning to Paris on board a battleship. Poincaré's attempts while afloat to communicate with Paris were blocked by the Germans, who jammed the radio messages between his ship and Paris. When Vienna's ultimatum was presented to Serbia on 23 July, the French government was in the hands of acting Premier Jean-Baptiste Bienvenu-Martin, the Minister of Justice who was unfamiliar with foreign affairs. His inability to take decisions especially exasperated the Quai d'Orsay (the French Ministry of Foreign Affairs). Senior diplomat Philippe Berthelot complained that France was doing nothing while Europe was threatened with the prospect of war. Realizing that Poincaré was practically incommunicado, the French military command began issuing orders in preparation for its own mobilization in defense against Germany, and ordered French troops to withdraw 10 kilometers from the German border so as not to be provocative. The French war plan called for an immediate invasion of Alsace-Lorraine, and never expected that the main German attack would come immediately and come far to the north, through neutral Belgium.\n\nFrance and Russia agreed that there must not be an ultimatum. On 21 July, the Russian Foreign Minister warned the German ambassador to Russia that \"Russia would not be able to tolerate Austria-Hungary's using threatening language to Serbia or taking military measures\". The leaders in Berlin discounted this threat of war, and failed to pass on the message to Vienna for a week. German foreign minister Gottlieb von Jagow noted \"there is certain to be some blustering in St Petersburg\". German Chancellor Theobald von Bethmann-Hollweg told his assistant that Britain and France did not realize that Germany would go to war if Russia mobilized. He thought London saw a German \"bluff\" and was responding with a \"counterbluff\". Political scientist James Fearon argues from this episode that the Germans believed Russia was expressing greater verbal support for Serbia than it would actually provide, in order to pressure Germany and Austria-Hungary to accept some Russian demands in negotiation. Meanwhile, Berlin was downplaying its actual strong support for Vienna so as to not appear the aggressor, for that would alienate German socialists.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2412945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2412945", "title": "Fête", "text": "Fête\n\nA fête, or fete, is an elaborate festival, party or celebration. In Britain, fêtes are traditional public festivals, held outdoors and organised to raise funds for a charity. They typically include entertainment and the sale of goods and refreshments. \n\nVillage fêtes are common in Britain. These are usually outdoor shows held on village greens or recreation grounds with a variety of activities. They are organised by an ad hoc committee of volunteers from organisations like religious groups or residents' associations. Fêtes can also be seen in former British colonies. In Australia, fêtes are often held yearly by schools and sometimes churches to raise funds.\n\nAttractions seen at village fêtes include tombolas, raffles, coconut shies, bat a rat stalls, white elephant stalls, cakes, and home produce such as jams and pickles. Competitive baking, such as making Victoria sponge cake, is part of the classic British fête. Filmed in bunting-draped marquees in scenic gardens, \"The Great British Bake Off\" television series is inspired by the quintessential English village fête. Entertainment at fêtes may include Morris dancing, tug of war, fancy dress, and pet shows. The fête itself is a variation of a fair.\n\nIn Trinidad and Tobago and other English-speaking Caribbean territories, fêtes are huge parties held during the Carnival season.\n\nHarvard University's Eliot House uses the term to refer to its spring formal. Bloomington, Minnesota's, Independence Day celebration (traditionally held on the 3rd of July) has been known as Summer Fete since 1978.\n\nThe English word \"fête\", pronounced or , is borrowed from the Mediaeval Latin via the French , meaning \"holiday\" or \"party\". The 12th-century Middle English root \"fest-\" is shared with \"feast\", \"festive\", \"festal\" and \"festival\", \"festoon\", the Spanish , Portuguese , etc. and the proper name \"Festus\".\n\n"}
{"id": "9938138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9938138", "title": "GTR Euroseries", "text": "GTR Euroseries\n\nThe GTR Euroseries was a short-lived auto racing series which ran in 1998. It was created as an alternative to the international FIA GT Championship, while combining elements of the former BPR Global GT Series. The GTR Euroseries was created by Patrick Peter and the GTR Organisation, who had also been a founder of the BPR.\n\nFollowing the 1996 BPR Global GT Series season, the FIA chose to promote the championship to a more international status and revamp the series into the FIA GT Championship. This was due to the increased amount of manufacturer support from the series, with makes including Mercedes-Benz, Porsche, Lotus, Panoz, and Chrysler. This increase in manufacturer input escalated the cost of being competitive in the series, driving various privateer teams out of the Championship.\n\nAt the same time, the FIA began to shorten events in the schedule. While most races in 1997 remained at four hours as they had been during BPR, others were shortened to just three hours. This was further revamped in 1998 as all events, besides the Suzuka 1000km, were run for only 500 kilometers, averaging under three hours per race.\n\nBelieving that the FIA GT Championship was moving away from the BPR Global GT Series' ideals for grand tourer racing, the Peter Organisation chose to create a new championship in 1998 as an alternative to FIA GT. This series would return to some of the concepts of BPR, such as all events being four hours in length. The series would also have a ban on direct manufacturer input, leaving the series open to small private teams who could not easily compete in the high-cost FIA GT series.\n\nThe new GTR Euroseries would also bring back some of the class structure that had been used in BPR. Besides allowing the GT1 and GT2 classes from FIA GT, the GT3 and GT4 classes also returned. These classes would be composed of cars from one-make series, such as the Porsche Supercup, Ferrari Challenge, or Venturi Trophy. Because these cars were much closer to their street legal counterparts, they were an even cheaper alternative to the GT1 and GT2 classes.\n\nThe first round of the season in Jarama had twenty competitors appearing, with at least two cars in each class. The first race was easily won by a GT1 class competitor, Thomas Bscher, using a McLaren F1 GTR, a car which still competed in FIA GT Championship. However, the next round at Paul Ricard would not feature the McLaren, and instead the GT1 class was left with only a Porsche 911 GT2 Evo. GT2 class was the most prevalent, with nine competitors, while the GT4 class also had a variety of machines.\n\nBy the third round of the season, the series mostly became a competition with the GT2 and GT4 classes, of which most of the competitors used Porsches. A mere 12 entrants showed at Misano, while only ten arrived at the Nürburgring. The series saw some revival in its final round of the season at Spa-Francorchamps, as 19 cars were entered, but the field still consisted mostly of GT2 and GT4 teams.\n\nDuring the 1998 season, the FIA GT Championship announced their plans to eliminate their GT1 class due to the high cost of the machines which ran it and the dominance of Mercedes-Benz in the Championship. This left only the smaller GT2 class, of which only Chrysler ran a factory squad. Believing the smaller FIA GT Championship would be more open to privateer teams in 1999 and due to a lack of competitors during the 1998 season, the GTR Euroseries was cancelled after five rounds due to a lack of teams entering and no desire to run a separate series in 1999.\n\nAll races were four hours in length. The Misano Gold Cup allowed sports-prototypes to compete alongside the GT cars.\n\n"}
{"id": "41965872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41965872", "title": "George Mason University's historical hoaxes", "text": "George Mason University's historical hoaxes\n\nStudents of George Mason University, as part of Professor T. Mills Kelly's course – \"Lying about the past\", have created two popular hoaxes: the \"Edward Owens hoax,\" and the \"Reddit serial killer hoax.\" It is a goal of the course to create a sweeping internet deception. As Prof. Kelly stated in the course's syllabus:\n\nThe Edward Owens hoax was a historical hoax created by students at George Mason University in 2008 as a class project for \"Lying About the Past\". The students created a website and a fictitious entry on English Wikipedia about Edward Owens, purportedly a Virginia oyster fisherman born in 1853 who became a pirate. The hoax was reported as true in some media outlets.\n\nStudents published a blog and videos about then fictional Owens, created by the fictional student \"Jane Browning\". The blog asserted that Owens fell on hard times during the Long Depression of the 1870s and took up piracy in Chesapeake Bay to survive. The students wrote that he robbed smaller commercial vessels and wealthy pleasure boaters from Maryland using a punt gun to threaten his victims. The class created a fake will, which asserted that Owens and his crew eventually went back to oyster fishing. The students later created a hoax biography of Owens on Wikipedia.\n\nAfter some media outlets and academics reported the hoax as factual, the class divulged the hoax.\n\nThe Reddit serial killer hoax was a second historical hoax perpetrated by \"Lying about the past\" class members. This one quickly failed, unlike the Owens hoax. In 2012, Professor Kelly taught the course for a second time in a similar format. The Reddit hoax, about an alleged serial killer named Joseph Scafe, was launched on the Reddit site on the 28th of April, and was first debunked in just over an hour.\n\nThe participating students created a sockpuppet named Lisa Quinn, and under her name opened a Wordpress.com blog entitled: \"I think my uncle was a serial killer.\" In her blog, Lisa wrote that she found some odd items in a Saratoga steamer trunk that she received upon the death of her grandparents. Lisa posted pictures of the trunk; ladies shoes she presumably found inside the trunk; and newspaper clippings from 1895; one of which was about the murder of Alice Walsh—later identified as having been taken from the April 22, 1895 edition of \"The Evening World\". According to Lisa's post, the trunk belonged to a relative, Joseph Scafe, (also called 'Uncle Joe'), and that it contained—in a false panel—ladies' jewelry and a \"disturbing\" journal. Lisa supposedly wanted to know if—in the opinion of her readers—her uncle was a serial killer.\n\nWith a new sockpuppet, DisturbedThrowaway, the students attempted to start the spread of the hoax with a posting of a question on AskReddit: \"Do you think my uncle Joe was just weird or possibly a serial killer?\" Through Reddit, the hoax was expected to spread. At first, the hoax aroused interest. Many posters requested more photos (which DisturbedThrowaway declined) and alluded to the commercial success the case could lead to. The name of Jack the Ripper was mentioned as well. Yet, within 26 minutes, suspicions were rising. DisturbedThrowaway, the poster of the question, claimed to have found the names of two victims, Alice Walsh and Diamond Flossie, in the documents she retrieved. She asked the redditors for assistance in research; however, a quick Wikipedia search brought forth information connected with the two names, and posters at the site wondered why DisturbedThrowaway hadn't perform such a simple search herself.\n\nJust over an hour after the initial posting, HatesRedditors suggested that the post was viral marketing. He noted that the Wikipedia entries for the victims had been created within two weeks of the posting and the pictures in the articles looked faked. The students tried to keep the deception going for several weeks, but the story was exposed. On May 14, Kelly revealed the serial killer hoax on his blog.\n\nWith the latest hoax exposed, Wikipedia deleted the two entries about Alice Walsh and Diamond Flossie which had been written by the students’ sockpuppets. The professor and students claimed that the subjects were factual, but Wikipedia found them to be of insufficient notability. Wikipedia administrators did raise questions about the course's situational ethics, however, as some claimed that Professor Kelly legitimized Wikipedia vandalism.\n\nProfessor Kelly did not express regret in this matter, \"I don't think there were any real victims here\", he blogged: \n\nYoni Appelbaum wrote in \"The Atlantic\" an article, \"How the Professor Who fooled Wikipedia Got Caught by Reddit,\" in which he compared the serial killer hoax and the last pirate hoax. In his article, he wondered why the 2008 hoax was successful, while this hoax failed in minutes. One answer he suggested was that Wikipedia has a trusting community, while Reddit has a critical and skeptical community.\n\nIn March 2013, Kelly announced that he would no longer be teaching the course, after the university declined to make it part of the regular curriculum of his department, however, as of February 2015 Professor Mills continues to delve into topics dealing with editing and/or manipulating Wikipedia in his digital history class at George Mason University. As of February 2016, all references to the hoaxes and classes have been removed from the university's web pages.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8679070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8679070", "title": "Golden Boy Promotions", "text": "Golden Boy Promotions\n\nGolden Boy Promotions, Inc. is an American boxing and mixed martial arts promotion firm based in Los Angeles, California which was established in 2002 by 10-time world champion (in six divisions) Oscar De La Hoya. \"Golden Boy\" is one of boxing’s most active and high profile promoters, presenting shows worldwide.\n\nIn 2005 Golden Boy Enterprises announced the formation of Golden Boy Partners, a company focused on urban development in Latino communities.\nGolden Boy promoted the May 5, 2007, \"super fight\" between De La Hoya and Floyd Mayweather at the MGM Grand in Las Vegas, Nevada. Mayweather won the bout by a split decision. The fight once held the record for most pay-per-view buys and once held the record as the second highest grossing fight in the history of the sport.\nThey also co-promoted along with Top Rank, The Dream Match: Oscar De La Hoya Vs Manny Pacquiao on December 6, 2008.\n\nIn June 2009, Golden Boy Enterprises became embroiled in a dispute over who would fight for the WBA junior welterweight title. On the one hand, undefeated Dmitry Salita (the WBA's No. 1-ranked 140-pounder) was told by the WBA in writing that he will face the winner of the June 27 fight between titleholder Andreas Kotelnik and Amir Khan. On the other hand, Richard Schaefer of Golden Boy said that \"he\" had it \"in writing\" that that fight would face the winner of the Victor Ortíz-Marcos Maidana fight. The WBA's top executives were unavailable for comment. Salita was extremely upset over the prospect that he could lose what would be his first title shot. \"They're a big company\", he said of Golden Boy. \"They're trying to bend the rules. They're trying to kick everyone to the side and get their way, rules or no rules. When Oscar De La Hoya formed Golden Boy, he said he wanted to change boxing, to bring honor to the sport. This isn't the honorable thing to do. This isn't good for boxing. This isn't justice. This goes against the right to pursue happiness, which is why my family immigrated to this country (from Ukraine) and why I've worked so hard. We'll see what happens.\" Salita ended up fighting Khan, losing by 1st-round TKO.\n\nIn January 2017, Golden Boy signed a contract to bring their boxing promotions to ESPN under a two year deal of a total of 48 fights.\n\nIn October 2018, Canelo Alvarez (50-1-2, 34 KOs), the undisputed king of pay-per-view boxing will usher in a new era in the sport by signing an 11-fight deal with sports streaming site DAZN. The journey begins Saturday, Dec. 15 when Canelo makes his first appearance at the historic Madison Square Garden challenging Rocky Fielding (27-1, 15 KOs) for the WBA Super Middleweight World Championship. This groundbreaking deal with Canelo will be the richest athlete contract in sports history.\n\nIn 2018, De La Hoya added mixed martial arts matches to his roster, as Golden Boy MMA, beginning with a 2018 trilogy bout between long-time rivals Chuck Liddell and Tito Ortiz. The inaugural event took place on November 24, 2018 in California, and saw Ortiz dispatch Liddell by first-round knockout.\n\nWhen the full card was first announced in October 2018, \"The Ultimate Fighter 3: Team Ortiz vs. Team Shamrock\" alum Kendall Grove was scheduled to face Andre Walker. However, this bout failed to materialize.\n\nUFC alum was scheduled to face Jason Manly in a Welterweight bout. However, the bout was cancelled when Gallicchio suffered a staph infection.\n\nKenneth Bergh and Jorge Gonzales were announced to fight in a Light Heavyweight bout. However, the bout failed to materialize. Juliana Miller was initially scheduled to face Jasmine Pouncy. However, Pouncy was replaced by Sidney Trillo.\n\nIn 2008, Golden Boy Promotions and Affliction Clothing started a mixed martial arts (MMA) promotion, aggressively pursuing free agents. The promotion was cancelled 10 days prior to its third \"\" PPV event, featuring Fedor Emelianenko and Josh Barnett, in July 2009, subsequent to Barnett having tested positive for anabolic steroids, in accordance with the California State Athletic Commission, when a qualified replacement fighter could not be secured in time.\n\nGolden Boy Promotions: Liddell vs. Ortiz 3 was a MMA event that took place on November 24, 2018 at the The Forum in Inglewood, California. \n\nBackground\n\nFor the main event, Chuck Liddell's reported payout was $250,000 (plus a percentage of pay-per-view buys) and Tito Ortiz's payout was $200,000 (plus a percentage of pay-per-view buys).\n\nResults\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39656209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39656209", "title": "Hong Kong People's Fringe Festival", "text": "Hong Kong People's Fringe Festival\n\nHong Kong People's Fringe Festival (in Chinese, 香港藝穗民化節) is a month-long open-access multi-arts festival held annually in Hong Kong. Initiated by the arts community in 2012, proposed by Hong Kong People's Fringe Association, the first festival showcased more than 50 art groups, 72 events and 42 alternative venues all over Hong Kong. The 4th Hong Kong People's Fringe Festival 2015 is going to take place from November 21 to December 20, 2015. The festival is having its sabbatical in 2016. \n\nThe founders of the Hong Kong People's Fringe Festival were stage director, Chan Chu Hei, choreographer-musician Julia Mok, composer-guitarist Chan Wai Fat and lighting-designer-cinematographer, Gabriel Fung. After a recent visit to Edinburgh Festival Fringe, the four friends discussed possibilities of organizing a similar festival that would encompass every possible form of art. It was also an effort to build a network amongst the smaller alternative venues. Hong Kong People's Fringe Association was formed. It only took a year from the announcement of the festival in November 2011 to the actual festival period, November 23 to December 15, 2012. Ho Ying Fung, stage director and scenographer, contributed the festival's first logo.\n\nThe first festival spanned from November 23 to December 15, 2012. The three-week festival then stretched one week longer in the second year and took place earlier in the year from November 1 to December 1, 2013. The third festival starts from October 18 to November 15, 2014 and the fourth one is from November 21 to December 20, 2015.\n\n\nThe registered events are roughly organized into categories. Categories vary each year. Initially they were Theatre, Dance and Physical Theatre, Music, Site Specific, Multi-media, Children's Show, Poetry and Literature, Festival-in-Festival, Workshop and Seminar, Film, Visual Art, Miscellaneous. In 2013, the Music+Dance category was introduced. In 2014, Puppetry and Comedy were added. In 2015, Magic became a category.\n\nThe wide variety of venues sets People's Fringe apart from other mainstream festivals in Hong Kong. In 2012, There were 42 alternative venues consisting of rehearsal rooms, studio theatres, live houses, bookstores, tailor shops, cafés, hair salons, galleries, rooftops, beaches and on the street. In 2013, churches, a rural village, a fruit plantation were added to the list.\n\nA participant needs to choose a venue to present the work, liaise with the venue so the show time can be set. The policy of every venue is different but there are some venues that would give discount to participants to People's Fringe participants. There is a list of venues on the festival website but the participant is not limited to it. Then a registration form is to be completed, together with images for the show. There is no selection process. Everyone is welcome. Registration is open until the end of the festival and is for free.\nVenue registration is open for any venue that intends to offer space and services for the festival participants. There is no charge.\nThere is a spectrum of work that volunteers can be involved. From poster-posting to onsite-helping to foreign guests assisting, a young volunteer gets to be involved in festival management.\n\nOne of the focuses of HK People's Fringe Festival is to encourage collaboration and partnership between art and society. In 2014, People's Fringe partnered with FringeBacker to crowd fund for the events. A media partner from 2014, Arttalk is a collective of writers and critics for the theatre. HKELD.com, also a media partner from 2014, is a website introducing theatre events to non-Chinese speakers in Hong Kong. Art-mate, a ticketing partner, offers discount to participants of the festival to use their online ticketing service.\n"}
{"id": "3967652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3967652", "title": "Hop-tu-Naa", "text": "Hop-tu-Naa\n\nHop-tu-Naa is a Celtic festival celebrated in the Isle of Man on 31 October. It is the celebration of the original New Year's Eve (). It is thought to be the oldest unbroken tradition in the Isle of Man.\nHop-tu-Naa is a continuation of the Manx Oie Houiney, which is exactly the same as the Irish Oíche Shamhna and which is pronounced the same. The exact status of Oíche Shamhna and its role in the Celtic calendar has been a matter of debate. Oíche Shamhna eventually mutated in to Halloween in northern England and in Ireland, it was carried to America by Irish immigrants and developed in to the modern Halloween. \n\nThe term ‘Hop-tu-naa’ comes from a Manx Gaelic song traditionally sung during the festival which included the nonsense Hop-tu-naa as part of the rhyme scheme, such nonsense rhymes are common theme in Irish and Scottish Gaelic music. \n\nOn the Isle of Man today, many groups of people continue the tradition of singing Hop-tu-Naa songs \"around the houses\" with turnip lanterns. In addition to this, many Hop-tu-Naa events take place across the Isle of Man each year, most of which today include competitions for turnip and the singing of traditional songs. As well as the many events run within local communities, the National Folk Museum at Cregneash hosts an event to teach the traditional Hop-tu-Naa song and to help people to carve turnips.\n\nAt the modern Hop-tu-Naa, children dress up and go from house to house hoping to be given sweets or money, as elsewhere. The children carry carved \"turnip\" lanterns (which are known as \"moots\" by the Manx) and sing Hop-tu-Naa songs. There are regional varieties of how turnips should be carved for Hop-tu-Naa, with variations focusing on which way up the turnip is and the nature of the decorations. It is believed that turnip-lanterns do not date earlier than the start of the 19th century, as the vegetable had only been introduced at the end of the previous century. In the past children would bring the stumps of turnips with them and batter the doors of those who refused to give them any money, in an ancient form of trick or treat. This practice appears to have died out.\n\nA hop-tu-naa dance was collected by both Mona Douglas and Leighton Stowell. It was believed to have been danced through the streets on Hop-tu-Naa night by couples carrying their turnip-lanterns. It is a simple procession dance for pairs of dancers which involves the Manx reel step and a combination of arches only. This dance is taught in many schools on the Isle of Man during October each year, and it is danced at many of the Hop-tu-Naa events across the island.\n\nSome of the older customs are similar to those now attached to the January New Year. It was a time for prophesying, weather prediction and fortune-telling. Last thing at night, the ashes of a fire were smoothed out on the hearth to receive the imprint of a foot. If, next morning, the track pointed towards the door, someone in the house would die, but if the footprint pointed inward, it indicated a birth.\n\nA cake was made which was called Soddag Valloo or Dumb Cake, because it was made and eaten in silence. Young women and girls all had a hand in baking it on the red embers of the hearth, first helping to mix the ingredients (flour, eggs, eggshells, soot and salt) and kneading the dough. The cake was divided up and eaten in silence and, still without speaking, all who had eaten it went to bed, walking backwards, expecting and hoping to see their future husband in a dream or vision. The future husband was expected to appear in the dream and offer a drink of water.\n\nOther means of divination was to steal a salt herring from a neighbour, roast it over the fire, eat it in silence and retire to bed.; or to hold a mouthful of water in your mouth and a pinch of salt in each hand as you listen to a neighbour's conversation, whereupon the first name mentioned would be that of your future spouse.\n\nTraditional food for Hop-tu-Naa includes \"mrastyr\": potatoes, parsnips and fish mashed up with butter. Any leftovers from this evening meal would be left out with crocks of fresh water for the fairies. Toffee would also be made, with just sugar and water, as a communal activity on the evening of Hop-tu-Naa.\n\nDifferent versions of Hop-tu-naa songs were sung in different areas of the island.\n\n\"Jinnie the Witch\" is a modern Manx English song, which was sung around the Douglas area.\n\nAccording to Hampton Creer, Jinny's real name was Joney Lowney. She lived in Braddan and was tried at Bishop's Court for witchcraft in 1715 and 1716. Her greatest \"crime\" was stopping the Ballaughton Corn Mill. She was sentenced to 14 days' imprisonment, fined £3 and made to stand at the four market crosses dressed in sackcloth.\n\nThe modern song goes as follows :\n\nIn the West of the Island a longer version was sung, which is more closely related to the Manx version.\n\nThe following version dates from the 1930s – a similar version is recorded in \"A Vocabulary of the Anglo-Manx Dialect\" by A. W. Moore, Sophia Morrison and Edmund Goodwin (1924):\n\nThe 1970s Southern version from Castletown includes the mention of the Witches Mill, the Smelt Monument and the Old House of Keys:\n\nNew songs for Hop-tu-Naa continue to be created, the most notable of which was written by Scaanjoon in 2015, having been commissioned by Culture Vannin. This has been taken up by the Manx traditional music youth group, Bree, as a part of their repertoire.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20661646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20661646", "title": "Internet Watch Foundation and Wikipedia", "text": "Internet Watch Foundation and Wikipedia\n\nOn 5 December 2008, the Internet Watch Foundation (IWF), a British watchdog group, blacklisted content on the English Wikipedia related to Scorpions' 1976 studio album \"Virgin Killer\", due to the presence of its controversial cover artwork, depicting a young girl posing nude, with a faux glass shatter obscuring her genitalia. The image was deemed to be \"potentially illegal content\" under English law which forbids the possession or creation of indecent photographs of children. The IWF's blacklist are used in web filtering systems such as Cleanfeed.\n\nThe URL to the image's , which depicts the cover art, was also blacklisted; however thumbnails and the image itself remained accessible. The album cover had been deemed controversial at the time of its release, and was replaced in some markets with an alternate cover image featuring a photo of the band members. The IWF described the image as \"a potentially illegal indecent image of a child under the age of 18\". Wikipedia's policies state that it does not censor content \"that some readers consider objectionable or offensive, even exceedingly so\", although it does remove content that is \"obviously inappropriate\", violates other Wikipedia policies, or is illegal in the United States.\n\nAs well as the direct consequence of censoring the article and image for UK-based readers of the English Wikipedia through the affected ISPs (a censoring that could be circumvented), and that the album cover was being made available unfiltered on other major sites including Amazon.co.uk (from which it was later removed), and available for sale in the UK, the action also had some indirect effects on Wikipedia, namely temporarily preventing all editors using said ISPs in the UK from contributing to any page of the encyclopedia, and preventing anonymous edits from these ISPs while the URL remained on the blacklist. This was described by the IWF as unintended \"collateral damage\". This was due to the proxies used to access Wikipedia, as Wikipedia implements a blocking policy whereby contributors can be blocked if they vandalise the encyclopedia. Therefore, all vandalism coming from one ISP would be directed through one proxy—hence one IP—and all of the ISP's customers using that proxy would be barred from editing.\n\nAfter invoking its appeals procedure and reviewing the situation, the IWF reversed their blacklisting of the page on 9 December 2008, and announced that they would not blacklist other copies of the image hosted outside the UK.\n\nThe album art of the Scorpions' album \"Virgin Killer\", featuring a young girl fully nude with a \"smashed glass\" effect covering her genitalia, was deemed controversial at the time of its release. The cover was replaced in some markets with an alternate cover image featuring a photo of the band members. RCA Records refused to sell the controversial album cover in the United States. The cover was not the only Scorpions' cover which caused controversy however, as the covers for \"Taken by Force\" and \"Lovedrive\" have also caused controversy with their content.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, access to illegal content (such as child pornography) was strictly self-regulated by individual internet service providers. This began when BT Group introduced Cleanfeed, a server-side filtering system which uses data obtained from the Internet Watch Foundation. The IWF is a Quango organisation that operates a website where users can report web pages containing illegal or dubious content to be added to their blacklists. This was implemented in order to prevent users from accessing this material, since it is illegal to possess an indecent image of a child under the age of 18 per the Protection of Children Act. British ISPs were later obligated by the government to implement filters for illegal content by the beginning of 2007.\n\nOn 5 December 2008 the Internet Watch Foundation added the Wikipedia URLs for the \"Virgin Killer\" article and the to its blacklist. After the blacklisting, users of major UK ISPs, including BT, Vodafone, Virgin Media/Tesco.net, Be/O2, EasyNet/UK Online/Sky Broadband, Orange, Demon, and TalkTalk (Opal Telecom), were unable to access the content.\n\nSarah Robertson, director of communications for the IWF, said that the image was rated \"1 on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is the least offensive\". She described the picture as \"erotic posing with no sexual activity\". While the image itself has not been flagged as \"illegal\", IWF determined it to be a \"potentially illegal indecent image of a child under the age of 18\".\n\nThe IWF said they were first notified of the Wikipedia URL on 4 December 2008. This followed the May 2008 reporting of the cover image on Wikipedia by U.S.-based social conservative site \"WorldNetDaily\" to the Federal Bureau of Investigation. A subsequent investigation by the FBI concluded that the artwork did not violate any US laws. \"EContent\" magazine subsequently reported that the discussion page associated with the article declared \"Prior discussion has determined by broad consensus that the \"Virgin Killer\" cover will not be removed\", and asserted that Wikipedia contributors \"favour inclusion in all but the most extreme cases\". However, according to \"The Guardian\" because \"the IWF doesn't talk to people outside of the UK they weren't able to appreciate what was going on\". Internet security expert Richard Clayton explained that \"We see this borderline stuff all the time; it's a no-win\", before adding that the decision seems to have been based on taking the image out of context, particularly \"given that you can go into HMV and buy a copy on the high street\". On 9 December 2008 the IWF reversed its blacklist of the Wikipedia pages on the basis of the \"contextual issues involved in this specific case and, in light of the length of time the image has existed and its wide availability\".\n\nThe blacklisting of \"Virgin Killer\" also caused other inadvertent issues for Wikipedia users in the United Kingdom. Usually most Internet users have a unique IP address visible to websites. However, as a result of ISPs using the IWF blacklist implemented through Cleanfeed technology, traffic to Wikipedia via those affected ISPs was then routed through a small number of proxy servers. This caused problems for users of the site. Since Wikipedia allows users to anonymously edit its encyclopaedia articles, these individuals are identified only through their IP addresses, which are used to selectively block users who vandalise the site or otherwise break its rules. The proxy filtering makes it impossible to uniquely distinguish users, and to prevent vandalism Wikipedia \"instituted a blanket ban on anonymous edits from the six ISPs, which account for 95% of British residential internet users\". This had the immediate effect of requiring nearly all registered users in the UK to request the lifting of on their accounts before they could edit again, and the de facto permanent effect of barring any contribution from people without , who contribute merely under an IP address and not a user name.\n\nThe MediaWiki software that Wikipedia runs on can interpret X-Forwarded-For (XFF) headers, allowing Wikipedia to identify a user's main IP address rather than the proxy IP address, allowing the ability to block proxy users individually by their client's IP rather than the proxy server IP (avoiding the need to block the whole proxy due to the actions of a single user). However, none of the ISPs subscribing to this system pass XFF information to Wikipedia, having the impact of reversing the normal method of identification and blocking on Wikipedia. IP addresses assumed to be assigned to an individual person or organisation were assigned instead to millions of people and thousands of registered editors. Wikipedia servers saw them all as the IP of the proxy rather than each as the IP of their own machine.\n\nDue to erroneous use of Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) and other routing technology to redirect the connections to the filtering proxies, users of some networks were temporarily prevented from accessing or editing any content hosted by Wikimedia, a problem reminiscent of Pakistan's accidental blocking of YouTube for much of the world instead of only their own citizens.\n\nOn 7 December 2008, the Wikimedia Foundation, a non-profit organisation which supports Wikipedia, issued a press release about the blacklisting of their sites by the IWF stating that they had \"no reason to believe the article, or the image contained in the article, has been held to be illegal in any jurisdiction anywhere in the world\", and noting that not just the image but the article itself had been blocked.\n\nOn 9 December 2008, Jimmy Wales, co-founder of Wikipedia, who holds the \"community founder seat\" on the Wikimedia Foundation Board of Trustees, told the UK's Channel 4 News that he had briefly considered legal action. After the block had been removed, Mike Godwin, general counsel for the Wikimedia Foundation, stated \"there is still plenty to be troubled by in the operations of the Internet Watch Foundation and its blacklist\".\n\nOn 9 December 2008, the IWF rescinded the block, issuing the following statement:\n\nThe incident was commented in some countries implementing or considering to implement Internet filtering or censorship plans. In Australia, Electronic Frontiers Australia vice-chairman Colin Jacobs said that \"[the] incident in Britain, in which virtually the entire country was unable to edit Wikipedia because the country's Internet Watch Foundation had blacklisted a single image on the site, illustrated the pitfalls of mandatory ISP filtering\". \"The Sydney Morning Herald\" has commented that \"Ironically, the banning of the image has only made it visible to more people as news sites publicise the issue and the image spreads across sites other than Wikipedia.\" an example of the Streisand effect.\n\nAt the time of the incident Amazon US were also displaying the image on their site and the IWF stated that it \"might yet add Amazon US to its list of 'blocked' sites for hosting the picture\"; however, Amazon subsequently took the decision to remove the image from their site. In an impact study preparing a bill dealing with cybercrime, the Cabinet of France listed the \"Virgin Killer\" block as an example of indiscriminate filtering.\n\nThe Electronic Frontier Foundation criticised the IWF's reasoning:\n\nThe IWF continues to assert that the image is indeed child porn, and asserts that the image would be blocked if it were on a British server.\n\n"}
{"id": "236708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=236708", "title": "Jayson Blair", "text": "Jayson Blair\n\nJayson Thomas Blair (born March 23, 1976) is a former American journalist who worked for \"The New York Times\". He resigned from the newspaper in May 2003 in the wake of the discovery of plagiarism and fabrication in his stories.\n\nBlair published a memoir of this period, entitled \"Burning Down My Master's House\" (2004), recounting his career, a diagnosis of bipolar disorder after his resignation, and his view of race relations at the newspaper. He later established a support group for people with bipolar disorder.\n\nBlair was born in Columbia, Maryland, the son of a federal executive and a schoolteacher. While attending the University of Maryland, College Park, he was a student journalist. For 1996–1997, he was selected as the second African-American editor-in-chief of its student newspaper, \"The Diamondback\". According to a 2004 article by the \"Baltimore Sun\", some of his fellow students opposed his selection.\n\nAfter a summer interning at \"The New York Times\" in 1998, Blair was offered an extended internship there. He declined in order to complete more coursework for graduation. But he returned to the \"Times\" in June 1999, with a year of coursework left to complete. That November, he was classified as an \"intermediate reporter\". He was later promoted to a full reporter and then to editor.\n\nOn April 28, 2003, Blair received a call from \"Times\" national editor James Roberts asking him about similarities between a story he had written two days earlier and one published April 18 by \"San Antonio Express-News\" reporter Macarena Hernandez. The senior editor of the \"Express-News\" had contacted the \"Times\" about the similarities between Blair's article in the \"Times\" and Hernandez's article in his paper.\n\nThe resulting inquiry led to the discovery of fabrication and plagiarism in a number of articles written by Blair. Some fabrications include Blair's claims to have traveled to the city mentioned in the dateline, when in fact he did not.\n\nSuspect articles include the following:\n\nAfter internal investigations, \"The New York Times\" reported on Blair's journalistic misdeeds in an \"unprecedented\" 7,239-word front-page story on May 11, 2003, headlined \"Times Reporter Who Resigned Leaves Long Trail of Deception.\" The story called the affair \"a low point in the 152-year history of the newspaper.\" On the NPR radio show \"Talk of the Nation\", Blair explained that his fabrications started with what he thought was a relatively innocent infraction: using a quote from a press conference which he had missed. He described a gradual process whereby his ethical violations became worse, and contended that his main motivation was a fear of not living up to the expectations that he and others had for his career.\n\nAfter the scandal broke, some 30 former staffers of \"The Diamondback\", who had worked with Blair when he was editor-in-chief at the university newspaper, signed a 2003 letter alleging that Blair had made four serious errors as a reporter and editor while at the University of Maryland. They said these and his work habits brought his integrity into question. The letter-signers alleged that questions raised by some of these staffers at the time were ignored by Maryland Media, Inc. (MMI), the board that owned the paper.\n\nThe investigation, known as the Siegal committee, found heated debate among the staff over affirmative action hiring, as Blair is African American. Jonathan Landman, Blair's editor, told the Siegal committee he felt that Blair's being black played a large part in the younger man's initial promotion in 2001 to full-time staffer. \"I think race was the decisive factor in his promotion,\" he said. \"I thought then and I think now that it was the wrong decision.\"\n\nOthers disagreed. Five days later, \"New York Times\" op-ed columnist Bob Herbert, an African American, asserted in his column that race had nothing to do with the Blair case: \n\n\"Listen up: the race issue in this case is as bogus as some of Jayson Blair's reporting.\" Herbert said, \"[F]olks who delight in attacking anything black, or anything designed to help blacks, have pounced on the Blair story as evidence that there is something inherently wrong with \"The New York Times\"s effort to diversify its newsroom, and beyond that, with the very idea of a commitment to diversity or affirmative action anywhere. And while these agitators won't admit it, the nasty subtext to their attack is that there is something inherently wrong with blacks.\"\n\nTwo senior editors, Executive Editor Howell Raines and Managing Editor Gerald Boyd, resigned after losing newsroom support in the aftermath of the scandal.\n\nAfter resigning from \"The New York Times\", Blair struggled with severe depression and, according to his memoir, entered a hospital for treatment. He was diagnosed with bipolar disorder for the first time. He has acknowledged that he had been self-medicating when he was dealing with substance abuse of alcohol and cocaine in earlier years.\n\nBlair later returned to college to complete his postponed degree. At one time he said he considered going into politics.\n\nThe year after he left the \"Times\", Blair wrote a memoir, \"Burning Down My Master's House\", published by New Millennium Books in 2004. Its initial print run was 250,000 copies; some 1,400 were sold in its first nine days. The Associated Press reported that the potential audience for his book may have gained enough information from the \"New York Times\" coverage of the reporting scandal. Although most reviews were critical, sales of the book increased after Blair was interviewed by King and Fox News Channel host Bill O'Reilly.\n\nIn his book Blair revealed extended substance abuse, which he had ended before he resigned from the newspaper, and a struggle with bipolar disorder, which was diagnosed and first treated after he resigned. He also discussed journalistic practices at the \"Times\", and his view of race relations and disagreements among senior editors at the newspaper.\n\nIn 2006 Blair was running a support group for people with bipolar disorder, for which he has received continuing treatment.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9997241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9997241", "title": "Jounen Kwéyòl", "text": "Jounen Kwéyòl\n\nJounen Kwéyòl (Creole Day) is celebrated in Saint Lucia on the last Sunday of October across the entire island, and has been held annually since 1984. On the Sunday of this week, the various towns chosen to host this festival put out the result of their grand preparations; local dishes and foods such as roast breadfruit, (Coupe) a sweetbread made by mixing spices and sugar into flour and kneading it then baking it, usually served at breakfast. Green Fig and Salt Fish (The National Dish of Saint Lucia), farine balls made with avocado and farine. Split pea dhal fried or baked pastry, plantain, king fish, Manicou (opossum), turtle, lobster, crayfish, callaloo made from fresh water crabs(backs), salt water crabs.Eel stew. Souse (a soup made with pork and often cucumber), fried bake and floats, Accra (a fried dough which contains salt fish), Paime (otherwise known as Conkies) and a famous dish known as Bouillon (fish, chicken or meat stewed with dasheen, yams, plantains, banana and dumplings) Also local drinks such as Cocoa Tea breadfruit punch, Seamoss punch, Spice drink made by mixing local spices and various barks from medicinal plants with rum. \nGolden Apple Juice, Guava Juice,sour orange juice and more. Apart from the food part, the event is collaborated with kweyol music some of which have been past down to and from many generations. The most widely used instrument besides vocals are the Tambos (drums) and are beaten throughout as people speak in the creole language and have a merry time. Most people commemorate this day by wearing the island's National Wear such as the Wob Dwiete and Madras costume(Jip). Persons who do not want to wear the extreme layers of skirts and dresses make clothing out of special plaid material called Madras which is one of the cloths used in the national wear. Among the places which celebrate it every year are Mon Repos and Dennery.\n\n"}
{"id": "5624712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5624712", "title": "Kiss of Judas", "text": "Kiss of Judas\n\nThe kiss of Judas, also known (especially in art) as the Betrayal of Christ, is how Judas identified Jesus to the multitude with swords and clubs who had come from the chief priests and elders of the people to arrest him, according to the Synoptic Gospels. The kiss is given by Judas in the Garden of Gethsemane after the Last Supper and leads directly to the arrest of Jesus by the police force of the Sanhedrin.\n\nWithin the life of Jesus in the New Testament, the events of his identification to hostile forces and subsequent execution are directly foreshadowed both when Jesus predicts his betrayal and Jesus predicts his death.\n\nMore broadly, a \"Judas kiss\" may refer to \"an act appearing to be an act of friendship, which is in fact harmful to the recipient\".\n\nThe gospels of Matthew (26:47–50) and Mark (14:43–45) both use the Greek verb καταφιλέω (\"kataphileó\"), which means to \"kiss, caress; distinct from φιλεῖν (\"philein\"); especially of an amorous kiss\" It is the same verb that Plutarch uses to describe a famous kiss that Alexander the Great gave Bagoas. The compound verb (κατα-) \"has the force of an emphatic, ostentatious salute\". Lutheran theologian Johann Bengel suggests that Judas kissed Him \"repeatedly\": \"he kissed Him more than once in opposition to what he had said in the preceding verse: , \"philēsō\", a single kiss (), and did so as if from kindly feeling\".\n\nAccording to Matthew 26:50, Jesus responded by saying: \"Friend, do what you are here to do\". Elaine Pagels and Karen King have speculated that Jesus and Judas were actually in agreement with each other and that there was no real betrayal. Luke 22:48 quotes Jesus saying \"Judas, are you betraying the Son of Humanity with a kiss?\"\n\nJesus' arrest follows immediately.\n\nIn the Divine Liturgy of Saint John Chrysostom the Greek Orthodox Church uses the troparion \"Of thy Mystical Supper..\", in which the hymnist vows to Jesus that he will \"...not kiss Thee as did Judas...\" («...οὐ φίλημά σοι δώσω,καθάπερ ὁ Ἰούδας...»):\nThe scene is nearly always included, either as the Kiss itself, or the moment after, in the Arrest of Jesus, or the two combined (as above), in the cycles of the Life of Christ or Passion of Jesus in various media.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11325103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11325103", "title": "List of aircraft shootdowns", "text": "List of aircraft shootdowns\n\nThis is a list of aircraft shootdowns, dogfights and other incidents during wars since World War II.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nUSAF F-15C vs. IRAF MiG-29\n\nUSAF F-15Cs vs. IRAF Mirage F1s\nLater on the same night, an F-15C scored a double-kill against two Mirages with AIM-7 Sparrow missile. His wingman scored another kill on a third Mirage F1, for a total of three kills in the dogfight.\n\nUSN F/A-18s vs. IRAF MiG-25s\nOn the first night of the war, two F/A-18s from the carrier USS Saratoga were flying outside of Baghdad when two Iraqi MiG-25PDs interceptors from the 96th Squadron engaged them. In the beyond-visual-range (BVR), one of the Iraqi MiGs, piloted by Lieutenant Colonel Zuhair Dawood, fired an R-40 missile, shooting down one of the F/A-18's as it was travelling Mach 0.92. The pilot, Lieutenant Commander Scott Speicher, was killed. It is widely believed he died upon the impact of the missile.\n\nUSN F/A-18s vs. IRAF MiG-21s\nTwo F/A-18s from VFA-81 shot down two Iraqi MiG-21s, one with an AIM-7 Sparrow missile and one with an AIM-9 Sidewinder missile, in a brief dogfight with their bombs still latched on.\n\nUSAF F-15Es vs IRAF MiG-29s\nOn the opening night of the war two Iraqi MiG-29s attempted to engage a flight of USAF F-15Es. One of the MiGs crashed while flying at low altitude but the other MiG pressed on. One of the F-15Es fired an AIM-9 Sidewinder when the MiG locked him up but missed. Several other F-15Es simultaneously tried to engage the lone MiG-29 but were unable to get the kill. One F-15E was actually flying past the Iraqi jet and maneuvered in for the kill but the pilot hesitated to take the shot because he was unsure of his wingmen's location and because he did not get a good tone with the Sidewinder missile.\n\nUSAF EF-111 vs. IRAF Mirage F-1\nOn the first night of the war a USAF EF-111A Raven \"Spark Vark\", flown by pilot Captain James Denton and Electronic Warfare Officer (EWO) Captain Brent Brandon, was on an electronic warfare mission ahead of a group of jets on a bombing run. Several IRAF Dassault Mirage F1s came in and engaged the flight. One of them went after the unarmed EF-111. Denton executed a tight turn while Brandon launched chaff to avoid missiles fired by the Mirage. An F-15C on the same flight, piloted by Robert Graeter, went after the Mirage to protect the EF-111. The Mirage launched a missile, spotted by Brandon, which the Raven avoided by turning and launching chaff. Denton decided to head for the deck to try to evade his pursuer. As he went down he pulled up to avoid the ground, the Mirage followed him through, but did not pull up in time and crashed. An unarmed EF-111 had thus scored an air-air victory against a Dassault Mirage F1, although Graeter was credited with a kill. The EF-111A crew were awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross.\n\nUSAF F-15Cs vs. IRAF MiG-25s\nTwo IRAF MiG-25s fired missiles at a group of F-15Cs escorting a bombing run in Iraq (which were evaded by the F-15s). The F-15Cs gave chase, but were forced to give up when the MiGs outran them. A total of 10 missiles were fired at the MiGs.\n\nUSAF F-111s vs. IRAF MiG-23\nAn Iraqi MiG-23 fired a R-24T missile at a F-111 on a bombing run and scored a hit, although the bomber made it safely back to base. Another similar incident occurred with the same Iraqi interceptor several minutes later, this F-111 also made it back to base despite the severe damage to the aircraft. This is Iraq's only success of the Persian Gulf War using MiG-23s.\n\nIRAF MiG-29 vs USAF F-111 and B-52G\nAn Iraqi MiG-29 struck an F-111 aircraft with an R60 missile, though the sturdy F-111 stayed airworthy. Several minutes later the same pilot fired a R27 missile at a B-52G on a bombing run, severely damaging it.[4]\n\n19 January 1991\nUSAF F-15Cs vs. IRAF MiG-25s\nIn a brief dogfight, two F-15Cs engaged and shot down two Iraqi MiG-25s attempting to engage them, both using AIM-7 missiles. One was destroyed by Captain Rick Tuleni and the second by Captain Larry Pitts.\n\nUSAF F-15Cs vs. IRAF MiG-29s\nTwo F-15Cs, piloted by Captains Craig Underhill and Cesar Rodriguez gave chase to a pair of MiG-29s detected by AWACS. The Iraqi aircraft, one piloted by Captain Jameel Sayhood, promptly turned and engaged the two American fighters, and one of the most dramatic dogfights of the Persian Gulf War ensued. The two MiGs and F-15s flew straight at each other, each attempting to visually identify the other. Underhill was facing Sayhood's wingman, while Sayhood himself was facing Rodriguez. Underhill fired an AIM-7 at Sayhood's wingman, scoring a head-on hit and killing the opposing pilot instantly. Simultaneously, Sayhood gained a lock on Rodriguez, throwing him onto the defensive. Rodriguez dove to low altitude in order to clutter Sayhood's radar and break the lock-on, and dropped flares to counter his adversary's infra-red search-and-track. However, after seeing his wingman shot down, Sayhood disengaged and fled to the north. Considering the engagement over, Rodriguez and Underhill turned south to rendezvous with a KC-135 tanker in order to refuel, but Sayhood reversed course and set off after them, prompting them to reengage. With the now lone MiG-29 closing head-on with the pair of F-15s, Underhill gained radar lock-on, but did not fire due to a glitch in his IFF interrogator system keeping him from being certain he wasn't about to shoot down a Coalition aircraft. Underhill initially thought he shot down an allied aircraft. Sayhood sliced into the American formation, causing a classic merge. Underhill kept Sayhood locked-on and climbed, while Rodriguez committed to the merge in order to visually identify the opposing aircraft as hostile. As they passed head-on, Rodriguez identified it as an Iraqi, and each pilot turned left to engage the other. Sayhood was relying on his MiG's better turning radius to get into a firing position on Rodriguez' tail but Rodriguez was very close to firing position on him. Both aircraft lost altitude through the sustained hard turning, bringing them perilously close to the ground. Fearing that Rodriguez would obtain infra-red lock-on and shoot him down with an AIM-9, Sayhood attempted to disengage using a split-s. Rodriguez didn't match Sayhood's manoeuver, and observed him eject just prior to his MiG impacting the ground – he'd commenced his escape maneuver too low. It was reported years later by Iraqi sources that the Captain was rescued by some farmers after he broke his leg and evacuated to a local hospital.\n\nRAF Tornado GR.1 vs. IRAF MiG-29\nIt has been claimed by some sources that an RAF Tornado (ZA467) crewed by Squadron Leader Gary Lennox and Squadron Leader Adrian Weeks was shot down on 19 January by an R-60MK (NATO reporting name: AA-8 Aphid) missile fired from an Iraqi MiG-29 piloted by Jameel Sayhood, however this aircraft is officially recorded as having crashed on 22 January on a mission to Ar Rutbah.\n\nUSAF F-15Cs vs. IRAF Mirage F1s\nTwo F-15Cs destroyed two Mirage F1s with AIM-7 missiles.\n\n24 January 1991\nRSAF F-15C vs. IRAF Mirage F1s\nThe Iraqi Air Force attempted to mount a rare offensive bombing operation and loaded two F1s with incendiary bombs. The Royal Saudi Air Force sent up two F-15Cs to intercept the bombers. One of the F-15s piloted by Captain Ayedh Al-Shamrani maneuvered behind the F1s and shot them both down with AIM-9 missiles.\n\n26 January 1991\nUSAF F-15Cs vs. IRAF MiG-23s\nIn what is considered a textbook \"beyond visual range\" or BVR kill, four MiG-23s took off from an Iraqi airbase. One of them turned back with mechanical problems, however the other three pressed on. Four F-15Cs were flying when AWACS reported the MiGs. The four F-15s lined up, were assigned targets and fired AIM-7 missiles at all of them, destroying all three MiGs within seconds of each other. Only three of the F-15C pilots were granted kills, as the fourth missile didn't reach the MiG until after it had already been brought down.\n\n27 January 1991\nUSAF F-15Cs vs. IRAF MiG-23s and Mirage F1\nTwo F-15Cs managed to get kills on three MiG-23s and one Mirage F1, after they caught them trying to flee to Iran. They were brought down with AIM-9 and AIM-7 missiles after a brief dogfight.\n\n29 January 1991\nUSAF F-15C vs. IRAF MiG-23\nAn American F-15C shot down a MiG-23 fleeing to Iran with an AIM-7 missile.\n\nUSAF F-15C vs. IRAF MiG-23\nA USAF F-15C eliminates an Iraqi MiG-23 in a short-lived dogfight with an AIM-7 missile.\n\n2 February 1991\nUSAF F-15C vs. IRAF IL-76\nAn F-15C kills an Iraqi transport, an IL-76, that was parked by strafing it with 20 mm bullets.\n\n6 February 1991\nUSAF F-15C vs. IRAF MiG-21s\nA lone F-15C takes down two Iraqi MiG-21s with AIM-7 missiles after they both engage him. These MiGs were escorting the Su-25s mentioned below.\n\nUSAF F-15C vs. IRAF Su-25s\nA F-15C spots two Iraqi Su-25s and gives chase, locking on, and shooting down both planes with AIM-9 missiles.\n\nUSAF A-10A vs. IRAF Bo-105\nA USAF A-10 ground attack aircraft, shoots down an Iraqi Bo-105 helicopter using its GAU-8 30 mm cannon.\n\n7 February 1991\nUSN F-14 vs. IRAF Mi-8\nA USN F-14 shoots down an IRAF Mi-8 helicopter with an AIM-9 missile. It is the last USN F-14 air-to-air kill.\n\nUSAF F-15Cs vs. IRAF Su-22s and Su-7\nTwo USAF F-15Cs shoot down two IRAF Su-22s and one Su-7 as they attempt to flee Iraq. All with AIM-7 missiles.\n\nUSAF F-15C vs. IRAF Mil-24\nA F-15C shoots down an IRAF Mi-24 with an AIM-7 missile.\n\n11 February 1991\nUSAF F-15Cs vs. IRAF helicopters\nTwo F-15Cs shoot down two unidentified Iraqi helicopters by using AIM-7 missiles for both.\n\n14 February 1991\nUSAF F-15E vs. IRAF Hughes 500\nAn F-15E Strike Eagle fighter/bomber dropped a laser-guided bomb onto a Hughes 500 helicopter in the air. The helicopter was on the ground initially loading up commandos, though it took off. Even with it taking off they left the laser on it and the bomb hit it when it was \"200 or so\" feet in the air. A special forces team on the ground witnessed the event.\n\n15 February 1991\nUSAF A-10A vs. IRAF Mi-8\nAn A-10A ground attack aircraft shoots down an Iraqi Mi-8 helicopter with its GAU-8 30 mm cannon.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nShootdowns in 2003\n\nShootdowns in 2004\n\nShootdowns in 2005\n\nShootdowns in 2006\n\nShootdowns in 2007\n\nShootdowns in 2008\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30697107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30697107", "title": "List of book-burning incidents", "text": "List of book-burning incidents\n\nNotable book burnings have taken place throughout history.\n\nDestruction of Ebla 2240 BC, then in 1600 BC.\n\nDestruction of Mari in 1765 BC.\n\nDestruction of Alalakh circa 1200 BC.\n\nDestruction of Ugarit 1180 BC.\n\nIn 612 BC the Assyrian capital Nineveh was destroyed by a coalition of Babylonians, Scythians and Medes. During the burning of the Royal Palace, a great fire ravaged the Library of Ashurbanipal where the scholar King Ashurbanipal had amassed a great number of texts and tablets from various countries. Modern historians believe the library may have contained a considerable number of texts written on such mediums as leather scrolls, wax boards, and possibly papyri – all of them vulnerable to fire. However, the considerable number of clay cuneiform tablets became partially baked. This destructive event helped preserve the tablets, which lay in the earth and were eventually found by 19th century archaeologists.\n\nAbout 600 BC, Jeremiah of Anathoth wrote that the King of Babylon would destroy the land of Judah. As recounted in Jeremiah 36, Jeremiah's scroll was read before Jehoiakim, King of Judah, in the presence of important officials; King Jehoiakim destroyed the scroll in a fire, and then sought to have Jeremiah arrested.\n\nThe Classical Greek philosopher Protagoras (c. 490 – c. 420 BC) was a proponent of agnosticism, writing in a now lost work entitled \"On the Gods\": \"\"Concerning the gods, I have no means of knowing whether they exist or not or of what sort they may be, because of the obscurity of the subject, and the brevity of human life\".\nAccording to Diogenes Laertius, the above outspoken Agnostic position taken by Protagoras aroused anger, causing the Athenians to expel him from their city, where the authorities ordered all copies of the book to be collected and burned in the marketplace. The same story is also mentioned by Cicero. However, the Classicist John Burnet doubts this account, as both Diogenes Laertius and Cicero wrote hundreds of years later and no such persecution of Protagoras is mentioned by contemporaries who make extensive references to this philosopher. Burnet notes that even if some copies of Protagoras' book were burned, enough of them survived to be known and discussed in the following century.\n\nThe philosopher Plato is said to have greatly disliked fellow-philosopher Democritus and wanted all of Democritus' books burned. Aristoxenus in his \"Historical Notes\" affirms that \"Plato wished to burn all the writings of Democritus that he could collect\". In his own lifetime, Plato was not in a position to destroy all copies of his rival's writings, but Plato's purpose was largely achieved through the choices made by scribes in later Classical times. Plato's own writings were frequently copied, and unlike nearly all of his philosophical contemporaries, Plato's entire work is believed to have survived intact for over 2,400 years. Conversely, none of Democritus' writings have survived, and only fragments are known from his vast body of work. Still, these fragments are enough to let many consider Democritus to be \"The Father of Modern Science\".\n\nThe burning of Persepolis, the ceremonial capital of the Achaemenid Persian Empire, about 330 BC, was one of the stains on the record of\nAlexander the Great, contrasting with the efforts he otherwise made to act humanely towards the defeated Persians. Various accounts\nattribute it to an accident, a drunken revelry by Alexander's soldiers, or a deliberate act of revenge for the burning of the Acropolis of Athens by the Achaemenid army centuries before. There was evidently no deliberate targeting of books and written material, but – though not mentioned in Greek and Latin accounts – such destruction did result from the setting on fire of palaces made mostly of highly combustible cedar wood. The \"Book of Arda Wiraz\", a Zoroastrian work composed in the 3rd or 4th century CE, mentions the destruction of Royal Archives and of \"all the Avesta (Zoroastrian scriptures) and Zend (commentraries)\" which were \"written with gold ink upon prepared cow-skins\". The \"Bundahishn\" – an encyclopædiaic collection of Zoroastrian cosmogony and cosmology – also refers to \"Aleskandar\" (Alexander) having burned the Avesta following his defeat of \"Dara\" (Darius III). For this act of sacrilege, Alexander's name was regularly accompanied in Middle Persian Zoroastrian texts by the appelation \"Gujastak\" (\"the Damned\", or \"the Evil\"). As late as the 10th century CE, the native Iranian writer Biruni, in his \"The Chronology of Ancient Nations\", mentioned regretfully the loss of historiographical sources due to that burning.\n\nThe fall of Persepolis paradoxically contributed to the preservation of the Achaemenid administrative archives that might have been lost due to passage of time and natural and man-made causes. According to archaeological evidence, the partial burning of Persepolis did not affect the Persepolis Fortification Archive tablets, but may have caused the eventual collapse of the upper part of the northern Fortification wall that preserved the tablets until their recovery by the Oriental Institute's archaeologists.\n\nDuring the Warring States Period, China was divided into various states - each of which had its own historians, writing over centuries their version of the history of their state and its relations with neighbors and rivals. Following Qin's conquest of all the others, Emperor Qin Shi Huang - on the advice of his minister Li Si - ordered the burning of all philosophy books and history books from states other than Qin – beginning in 213 BC. This was followed by the live burial of a large number of intellectuals who did not comply with the state dogma.\n\nLi Si is reported to have said: \"I, your servant, propose that all historian's records other than those of Qin's be burned. With the exception of the academics whose duty includes possessing books, if anyone under heaven has copies of the Shi Jing, the Classic of History, or the writings of the hundred schools of philosophy, they shall deliver them [the books] to the governor or the commandant for burning. Anyone who dares to discuss the Shi Jing or the Classic of History shall be publicly executed. Anyone who uses history to criticize the present shall have his family executed. Any official who sees the violations but fails to report them is equally guilty. Anyone who has failed to burn the books after thirty days of this announcement shall be subjected to tattooing and be sent to build the Great Wall. The books that have exemption are those on medicine, divination, agriculture and forestry. Those who have interest in laws shall instead study from officials.\"\n\nThe damage to Chinese culture was compounded during the revolts which ended the short rule of Qin Er Shi, Qin Shi Huang's son. The imperial palace and state archives were burned, destroying many of the remaining written records that had been spared by the father.\n\nSeveral other large book burnings also occurred in Chinese history. It appears they occurred in every dynasty following the Qin, but it is unknown how often.\n\nIn 186 BC, in an effort to suppress the Bacchanalia practices that had been led in part by Minius Cerrinius, a Consul of Rome claimed that the fathers and grandfathers of the Romans had suppressed foreign rites and ceremonies, \"seeking out and burning all books of pretended prophecies\"\n\nIn 168 BC the Seleucid monarch Antiochus IV ordered Jewish 'Books of the Law' found in Jerusalem to be 'rent in pieces' and burned – part of the series of persecutions which precipitated the revolt of the Maccabees.\n\nIn 17 BC, Virgil died and in his will ordered that his masterpiece, the Aeneid, be burned, as it was a draft and not a final version. However, his friends disobeyed him and released the epic poem after editing it themselves.\n\nIn 25 AD Senator Aulus Cremutius Cordus was forced to commit suicide and his \"History\" was burned by the aediles, under the order of the senate. The book's praise of Brutus and Cassius, who had assassinated Julius Caesar, was considered an offence under the \"lex majestatis\". A copy of the book was saved by Cordus' daughter Marcia, and it was published again under Caligula. However, only a few fragments survived to the present.\n\nSuetonius tells us that, at the death of Marcus Lepidus (about 13 BC), Augustus assumed the office of Chief Priest, and burned over two thousand copies of Greek and Latin prophetic verse then current, the work of anonymous or unrespected authors (preserving the Sibylline Books).\n\nFlavius Josephus relates that about the year 50 a Roman soldier seized a Torah scroll and, with abusive and mocking language, burned it in public. This incident almost brought on a general Jewish revolt against Roman rule, such as broke out two decades later. However, the Roman Procurator Cumanus appeased the Jewish populace by beheading the culprit.\n\nAbout the year 55 according to the New Testament book of Acts, early converts to Christianity in Ephesus who had previously practiced sorcery burned their scrolls: \"A number who had practised sorcery brought their scrolls together and burned them publicly. When they calculated the value of the scrolls, the total came to fifty thousand drachmas.\" (Acts 19:19, NIV)\n\nUnder the Emperor Hadrian, the teaching of the Jewish Scriptures was forbidden, as, in the wake of the Bar Kochva Rebellion, the Roman authorities regarded such teaching as seditious and tending towards revolt. Haninah ben Teradion, one of the Jewish Ten Martyrs executed for having defied that ban, is reported to have been burned at the stake together with the forbidden Torah scroll which he had been teaching. According to Jewish tradition, when the flame started to burn himself and the scroll he still managed to say to his pupils: \"I see the scrolls burning but the letters fly up in the air\" – a saying considered to symbolize the superiority of ideas to brute force. While in the original applying to sacred writings only, 20th Century Israeli writers also quoted this saying in the context of secular ideals.\n\nAmong five catastrophes said to have overtaken the Jews on the Seventeenth of Tammuz, the \"Mishnah\" includes \"the burning of the Torah by Apostomus\". Since no further details are given and there are no other references to Apostomus in Jewish or non-Jewish sources, the exact time and circumstances of this traumatic event are debated, historians assigning to it different dates in Jewish history under Seleucid or Roman rule, and it might be identical with one of the events noted above (see Apostomus page).\n\nThe book \"Established beliefs\" of Epicurus was burned in a Paphlagonian marketplace by order of the charlatan Alexander of Abonoteichus, supposed prophet of Glycon, the son of Asclepius ca 160\nThe Diocletianic Persecution started on March 31, 302, with the Roman Emperor Diocletian, in a rescript from Alexandria, ordering that the leading Manichaeans be burnt alive along with their scriptures. This was the first time a Roman Imperial persecution ever called for the destruction of sacred literature.\nOn the following year, on February 23, 303, Diocletian ordered that the newly built Christian church at Nicomedia be razed, its scriptures burned, and its treasures seized. Later persecutions included the burning of both the Christians themselves and of their books. As related in later Christian Hagiography, at that time the governor of Valencia offered the deacon who would become known as Saint Vincent of Saragossa to have his life spared in exchange for his consigning Scripture to the fire. Vincent refused and let himself be executed instead. In religious paintings he is often depicted holding the book whose preservation he preferred to his own life (see illustration in Saint Vincent of Saragossa page.) Conversely, many other Christians, less courageous, did save their lives by giving away their Scriptures to be burned. These came to be known as Traditores (literally, \"those who give away\") from which the modern word \"traitor\" is derived.\n\nThe books of Arius and his followers, after the first Council of Nicaea (325 C.E.), were burned for heresy by the Roman emperors Constantine, Honorius, and Theodosius I, who published a decree commanding that, \"the doctrine of the Trinity should be embraced by those who would be called catholics; that all others should bear the infamous name of heretics\".\n\nIn 364, the Roman Catholic Emperor Jovian ordered the entire Library of Antioch to be burnt. It had been heavily stocked by the aid of his non-Christian predecessor, Emperor Julian.\n\nElaine Pagels is the first to claim that in 367, Athanasius ordered monks in the Coptic Orthodox Church of Alexandria in his role as bishop of Alexandria to destroy all \"unacceptable writings\" in Egypt, the list of writings to be saved constituting the New Testament. While there is no evidence that Athanasius decreed all unacceptable writings to be burned, this unsubstantiated claim by Pagels is frequently cited as fact on the internet.\n\nThe Sibylline Books were a collection of oracular sayings. According to myth, the Cumaean sibyl offered Lucius Tarquinius Superbus the books for a high price, and when he refused, burned three. When he refused to buy the remaining six at the same price, she again burned three, finally forcing him to buy the last three at the original price. The quindecimviri sacris faciundis watched over the surviving books in the Temple of Jupiter Optimus Maximus, but could not prevent their being burned when the temple burned down in 83 BC. They were replaced by a similar collection of oracular sayings from around the Mediterranean in 76 BC, along with the sayings of the Tiburtine sibyl, and then checked by priests for perceived accuracy as compared to the burned originals. These remained until for political reasons they were burned by Flavius Stilicho (died 408).\n\nIn 385, the theologian Priscillian of Ávila became the first Christian to be executed by fellow-Christians as a heretic. Some (though not all) of his writings were condemned as heretical and burned. For many centuries they were considered irreversibly lost, but surviving copies were discovered in the 19th century.\n\n\"Etrusca Disciplina\", the Etruscan books of cult and divination, were collected and burned in the 5th century.\n\nThe books of Nestorius, declared to be heresy, were burned under an edict of Theodosius II(435). The Greek originals of most writings were irrevocably destroyed, surviving mainly in Syriac translations.\n\nPatriarch Eutychius of Constantinople published a treatise, on the General Resurrection, maintaining that the resurrected body \"will be more subtle than air, and no longer palpable\". Pope Gregory the Great opposed the palpability of the risen Christ in . As the dispute could not be settled, the Byzantine emperor, Tiberius II Constantine, undertook to arbitrate. He decided in favor of palpability and ordered Eutychius' book to be burned. Eutychius died soon afterwards, on 5 April 582.\n\nDuring the \"Isshi Incident\" of 645, a transformative event in early Japanese Imperial history, the influential Soga no Iruka was assassinated and enemies of the Soga Clan seized power. Shortly afterwards, Iruka's father Soga no Emishi killed himself by setting fire to his residence. The conflagration destroyed the manuscript copy of the \"Tennōki\", an important historical text which was forever lost, as well as many other Imperial treasures which had been taken for safe-keeping by the Soga. Fune no Fubitoesaka quickly grabbed out of the flames another unique historical text known as \"Kokki\" and is said to have afterwards presented it to Emperor Tenji – though it was at some later time lost in unknown circumstances, and no known extant copies of it remain.\n\nThe library of the Serapeum in Alexandria was trashed, burned and looted, 392, at the decree of Theophilus of Alexandria, who was ordered so by Theodosius I. Around the same time, Hypatia was murdered. One of the largest destructions of books occurred at the Library of Alexandria, traditionally held to be in 640; however, the precise years are unknown as are whether the fires were intentional or accidental.\n\nFollowing the \"Triumph of Orthodoxy\" in 843, when the Byzantine Iconoclasts were decisively defeated and the worship of Icons formally restored, the Byzantine secular and religious authorities destroyed almost all Iconoclast writings – making it difficult for modern researchers to determine what exactly were the Iconoclasts' reasons to oppose the use of Icons in Christian worship.\n\nUthman ibn 'Affan, the third Caliph of Islam after Muhammad, who is credited with overseeing the collection of the verses of the Qur'an, ordered the destruction of any other remaining text containing verses of the Quran after the Quran has been fully collected, circa 650. This was done to ensure that the collected and authenticated Quranic copy that Uthman collected became the primary source for others to follow, thereby ensuring that Uthman's version of the Quran remained authentic. Although the Qur'an had mainly been propagated through oral transmission, it also had already been recorded in at least three codices, most importantly the codex of Abdullah ibn Mas'ud in Kufa, and the codex of Ubayy ibn Ka'b in Syria. Sometime between 650 and 656, a committee appointed by Uthman is believed to have produced a singular version in seven copies, and Uthman is said to have \"sent to every Muslim province one copy of what they had copied, and ordered any other Qur'anic materials, whether written in fragmentary manuscripts or whole copies, be burnt.\"\n\nAfter the conquest of Toledo, Spain (1085) by the king of Castile, whether Iberian Christians should follow the foreign Roman rite or the traditional Mozarabic rite became a subject of dispute. After other ordeals, the dispute was submitted to the trial by fire: One book for each rite was thrown into a fire. The Toledan book was little damaged after the Roman one was consumed. Henry Jenner comments in the Catholic Encyclopedia: \"No one who has seen a Mozarabic manuscript with its extraordinarily solid vellum, will adopt any hypothesis of Divine Interposition here.\"\nThe provincial synod held at Soissons (in France) in 1121 condemned the teachings of the famous theologian Peter Abelard as heresy; he was forced to burn his own book before being shut up inside the convent of St. Medard at Soissons.\n\nThe rebellious monk Arnold of Brescia – Abelard's pupil and colleague – refused to abjure his views after they were condemned at the Synod of Sens in 1141, and went on to lead the Commune of Rome in direct opposition to the Pope, until being executed in 1155.\nThe Church ordered the burning of all his writings, which was carried out so thoroughly than none of them survives and it is unknown even what they were – except for what can be inferred from polemics against him. Nevertheless, though no written word of Arnold's has survived, his teachings on apostolic poverty continued potent after his death, among \"Arnoldists\" and more widely among Waldensians and the Spiritual Franciscans.\n\nThe library of Nalanda, known as Dharma Gunj (Mountain of Truth) or Dharmagañja (Treasury of Truth), was the most renowned repository of Hindu and Buddhist knowledge in the world at the time. Its collection was said to comprise hundreds of thousands of volumes, so extensive that it burned for months when set aflame by Muslim invaders in 1193.\n\nThe Royal Library of the Samanid Dynasty was burned at the turn of the 11th century during the Turkic invasion from the east. Avicenna was said to have tried to save the precious manuscripts from the fire as the flames engulfed the collection.\n\nFollowing the conversion of the Maldives to Islam in 1153 (or by some accounts in 1193), the Buddhist religion – hitherto state religion for more than a thousand years – was suppressed. The copper-plate document known as Dhanbidhū Lōmāfānu gives information about events in the southern Haddhunmathi Atoll, which had been a major center of Buddhism – where monks were beheaded, and statues of Vairocana, the transcendent Buddha, were destroyed. At that time, also the wealth of Buddhist manuscripts written on screwpine leaves by Maldivian monks in their Buddhist monasteries was either burnt or otherwise so thoroughly eliminated that it has disappeared without leaving any trace.\n\nAccording to William Johnston, as part of the Muslim conquest of the Indian subcontinent there was a persecution of the Buddhist religion, considered idolaterous from the Muslim point of view. During the 12th and 13th centuries, Buddhist texts were burnt by the Muslim armies in the Gangetic plains region, which also destroyed hundreds of Buddhist monasteries and shrines and killed monks and nuns. (See Decline of Buddhism in India).\n\nThe famous library of the Alamut Castle, the main stronghold of the order of the Nizari Ismailis, was burned after the invading Mongols captured it. Primary sources on the thoughts of the Ismailis of this period are therefore lacking today.\n\nBetween 120,000 and 2,000,000 were destroyed under Saladin when he converted the Al-Azhar madrassah from Ismaili Shiism to Sunni Islam.\n\nDuring the 13th century, the Catholic Church waged a brutal campaign against the Cathars of Languedoc (smaller numbers also lived elsewhere in Europe), culminating in the Albigensian Crusade. Nearly every Cathar text that could be found was destroyed, in an effort to completely extirpate their heretical beliefs; only a few are known to have survived. Historians researching the Cathar religious principles are forced to largely rely on information provided by the manifestly hostile writings of their sworn opponents.\n\nMaimonides' major philosophical and theological work, \"Guide for the Perplexed\", got highly mixed reactions from fellow-Jews of his and later times – some revering it and viewing it as a triumph, while others deemed many of its ideas heretical, banning it and on some occasions burning copies of it.\nOne such burning took place at Montpellier, Southern France, in 1233.\n\nIn 1242, The French crown burned all Talmud copies in Paris, about 12,000, after the book was \"charged\" and \"found guilty\" in the Disputation of Paris sometimes called \"the Paris debate\" or the \"Trial of the Talmud.\" These burnings of Jewish books were initiated by Pope Gregory IX, who persuaded French King Louis IX to undertake it. This particular book burning was commemorated by the German Rabbi and poet Meir of Rothenburg in the elegy (kinna) called \"Ask, O you who are burned in fire\" (שאלי שרופה באש), which is recited to this day by Ashkenazi Jews on the fast of Tisha B'av.\n\nThe Church's original stance alleged that the Talmud contained blasphemous writings towards Jesus Christ and his mother Mary, attacks against the Church and other offensive pronouncements against non-Jews which lead subsequent popes to organize public burnings of Jewish books. The most well known of them were Innocent IV (1243–1254), Clement IV (1256–1268), John XXII (1316–1334), Paul IV (1555–1559), Pius V (1566–1572) and Clement VIII (1592–1605).\n\nOnce the printing press was invented, the Church found it impossible to destroy entire printed editions of the Talmud and other sacred books. Johann Gutenberg, the German who invented the printing press around 1450, certainly helped stamp out the effectiveness of further book burnings. The tolerant (for its time) policies of Venice made it a center for the printing of Jewish books (as of books in general), yet the Talmud was publicly burned in 1553 and there was a lesser known burning of Jewish books in 1568.\nIn 1263 the Disputation of Barcelona was held before King James I of Aragon between the monk Pablo Christiani (a convert from Judaism) and Rabbi Moses ben Nachman (also known as Nachmanides). At the end of disputation, king awarded Nachmanides a monetary prize and declared that never before had he heard \"an unjust cause so nobly defended.\" Since the Dominicans nevertheless claimed the victory, Nahmanides felt compelled to publish the controversy. The Dominicans asserted that this account was blasphemies against Christianity. Nahmanides admitted that he had stated many things against Christianity, but he had written nothing which he had not used in his disputation in the presence of the King, who had granted him freedom of speech. The justice of his defense was recognized by the King and the commission, but to satisfy the Dominicans Nahmanides was exiled and his pamphlet was condemned to be burned.\n\nThe House of Wisdom was destroyed during the Mongol invasion of Baghdad in 1258, along with all other libraries in Baghdad. It was said that the waters of the Tigris ran black for six months with ink from the enormous quantities of books flung into the river.\n\nThe De heretico comburendo (\"On the Burning of Heretics\"), a law passed by the English Parliament under King Henry IV of England in 1401, was intended to stamp out \"heresy\" and in particular the Lollard movement, followers of John Wycliffe. The law stated that \"...divers false and perverse people of a certain new sect ...make and write books, [and] do wickedly instruct and inform people\". The law's purpose was to \"utterly destroy\" all \"preachings, doctrines, and opinions of this wicked sect\". Therefore, all persons in possession of \"such books or writings of such wicked doctrine and opinions\" were ordered to deliver all such books and writings to the diocesan authorities, within forty days of the law being enacted, so as to let them be burned and destroyed. Those failing to give up their heretical books would face the prospect of being arrested and having their bodies as well as their books burned.\n\nIn 1410 John Wycliffe's books were burnt by the illiterate Prague archbishop Zbyněk Zajíc z Házmburka in the court of his palace in Lesser Town of Prague to hinder the spread of Jan Hus's teaching.\n\nHenry of Villena, a scion of Aragon's old dynasty, was a scholar, surgeon, and translator who was persecuted by the kings of Castile and Aragon as a sorcerer and necromancer. Upon his death in prison, of Castile ordered his confessor Bishop Barrientos to burn Villena's library The poet Juan de Mena skewered the bishop for this destruction in his \"Labyrinth of Fortune\" and others accused him of plundering it for the purpose of later plagiarizing the works himself, but Barrientos portrayed himself as bound by his king's orders and as having done what he could to preserve the library's most important works:\n\nAccording to the Madrid Codex, the fourth tlatoani Itzcoatl (ruling from 1427 (or 1428) to 1440) ordered the burning of all historical codices because it was \"not wise that all the people should know the paintings\". Among other purposes, this allowed the Aztec state to develop a state-sanctioned history and mythos that venerated the Aztec god Huitzilopochtli.\n\nAfter the death of the prominent late Byzantine scholar Gemistus Pletho, there was discovered among his papers a major work called \"Nómon singrafí\" (Νόμων συγγραφή) or \"Nómoi\" (Νόμοι \"Book of Laws\"). He had been compiling it throughout most of his adult life, but never published it. It contained his most esoteric beliefs, including an objection to some of the basic tenets of Christianity and an explicit advocacy of a restoration (in modified form) of the worship of gods of the Classical Greek mythology – obviously heretical as the Orthodox Church understood the term. The manuscript came into the possession of Princess Theodora, wife of Demetrios, despot of Morea. Theodora sent the manuscript to Gennadius II, Patriarch of Constantinople, asking for his advice on what to do with it; he returned it, advising her to destroy it. Morea was under invasion from Sultan Mehmet II, and Theodora escaped with Demetrios to Constantinople where she gave the manuscript back to Gennadius, reluctant to herself destroy the only copy of such a distinguished scholar's work. Gennadius finally burnt it in 1460. However, in a letter to the Exarch Joseph (which still survives) Gennadius details the book, providing chapter headings and brief summaries of the contents. Plethon's own summary of the \"Nómoi\", titled \"Summary of the Doctrines of Zoroaster and Plato\", also survived among manuscripts held by his former student Bessarion – though the full detailed text was lost with Gennadius' burning.\n\nIn the course of the Novgorod Republic being conquered and subjugated by the rising power of Muscovy, the Republic's library and archives were destroyed, simultaneously with many of the republic's citizens being massacred and tortured and its wealth being looted. The library's destruction can be variously dated either to Novgorod's conquest by Ivan III in 1478, or to the 1570 Massacre of Novgorod perpetrated by his grandson Ivan IV.\n\nIn 1497, followers of the Italian priest Girolamo Savonarola collected and publicly burned books and objects which were deemed to be \"immoral\", some – but by no means all – of which might fit modern criteria of pornography or \"lewd pictures\", as well as pagan books, gaming tables, cosmetics, copies of Boccaccio's \"Decameron\", and all the works of Ovid which could be found in Florence.\nIn 1490 a number of Hebrew Bibles and other Jewish books were burned at the behest of the Spanish Inquisition. In 1499 or early 1500 about 5000 Arabic manuscripts, including a school library—all that could be found in the city—were consumed by flames in a public square in Granada, Spain, on the orders of Cardenal Ximénez de Cisneros, Archbishop of Toledo and head of the Spanish Inquisition, excepting only those on medicine, which are conserved in the library of El Escorial.\n\nIn 1509 Spanish forces commanded by Count Pedro Navarro, on the orders of Cardinal Francisco Jiménez de Cisneros, conquered the city of Oran in North Africa. Thereupon, the occupying forces set fire to the books and archives of the town – a direct continuation of Cardenal Cisneros' book destruction in Granda, a few years before (see above).\n\nAt the instruction of Reformer Martin Luther, a public burning of books was held in the public square outside Wittenberg's Elster Gate on December 10, 1520. Together with the Papal Bull of Excommunication \"Exsurge Domine\", issued against Luther himself, were burned works which Luther considered as symbols of Catholic orthodoxy – including the \"Code of Canon Law\", the \"Summa Theologica\" of St. Thomas Aquinas and the \"Summa Angelica\", Angelo Carletti's work on Scotist theology.\n\nOn March 1521 Emperor Charles V published in Flanders a ban prohibiting the \"books, sermons and writings of the said Luther and all his followers and adherents\" and ordering all such materials to be burnt. This was followed by a stream of local bans throughout the Habsburg Netherlands and in neighboring states, particularly the ecclesiastical principalities of Liege, Utrecht, Cologne and Munster. Implementation was intensive in the southern part of the Habsburg Netherlands (present-day Belgium). At Leuven eighty copies of Luther's works were burned in October 1520 (even before publication of the official ban). At Antwerp no less than 400 Lutheran works – 300 of them confiscated from booksellers – were destroyed in the Emperor's presence in July 1521. In the same month 300 Lutheran works were destroyed at Ghent. More public book burnings followed in 1522, at Bruges and twice more at Antwerp. Implementation of the Emperor's ban was less swift in the northern part (present day Netherlands). In 1522 the authorities at Leiden ordered confiscation of all Lutheran works in the town, but apparently did not burn them. The first mass book burning in the North was in 1521 in the ecclesiastical territory of Utrecht. The first mass book burning in Amsterdam took place later, in 1526. Thereafter, public book burning remained part of life in the Habsburg Netherlands for much of the 16th Century, Anabaptist and Calvinist writings later joining the Lutheran ones in the flames. Yet despite this relentless campaign, Protestant writings continued to proliferate. As well as the books being burned, many of the printers and booksellers involved in disseminating them were themselves burned at the stake by the Inquisition.\n\nIn October 1526 William Tyndale's English translation of the \"New Testament\" was burned in London by Cuthbert Tunstall, Bishop of London. Tunstall claimed that Tyndale's version was filled with lies and errors. \nIn 1527, the innovative physician Paracelsus was licensed to practice in Basel, with the privilege of lecturing at the University of Basel. He published harsh criticism of the Basel physicians and apothecaries, creating political turmoil to the point of his life being threatened. He was prone to many outbursts of abusive language, abhorred untested theory, and ridiculed anybody who placed more importance on traditional medical texts than on practice ('The patients are your textbook, the sickbed is your study. If disease put us to the test, all our splendor, title, ring, and name will be as much help as a horse's tail'). In a display of his contempt for conventional medicine, Paracelsus publicly burned editions of the works of Galen and Avicenna - two of the most highly respected traditional medical texts, which established physicians tended to trust without reservations, but which according to Paracelsus contained many serious medical errors.\n\nDuring the Dissolution of the Monasteries in England (1536–1541), many monastic libraries were destroyed. Worcester Abbey had 600 books at the time of the dissolution. Only six of them have survived intact to the present day. At the abbey of the Augustinian Friars at York, a library of 646 volumes was destroyed, leaving only three surviving books. Some books were destroyed for their precious bindings, others were sold off by the cartload, including irreplaceable early English works. It is believed that many of the earliest Anglo-Saxon manuscripts were lost at this time. The favorites of King Henry VIII and his minister Thomas Cromwell, into whose hands the former Monasteries passed, had no interest in or appreciation of the value of the old manuscripts, treating them simply as raw material:\n\nIn 1553, Servetus was burned as a heretic at the order of the city council of Geneva, dominated by Calvin – because a remark in his translation of Ptolemy's \"Geographia\" was considered an intolerable heresy. As he was placed on the stake, \"around [Servetus'] waist were tied a large bundle of manuscript and a thick octavo printed book\", his \"Christianismi Restitutio\". In the same year the Catholic authorities at Vienne also burned Servetus in effigy together with whatever of his writings fell into their hands, in token of the fact that Catholics and Protestants – mutually hostile in this time – were united in regarding Servetus as a heretic and seeking to extirpate his works. At the time it was considered that they succeeded, but three copies were later found to have survived, from which all later editions were printed.\n\n\"The Historie of Italie\" (1549), a scholarly and in itself not particularly controversial book by William Thomas, was in 1554 \"suppressed and publicly burnt\" by order of Queen Mary I of England – after its author was executed on charges of treason. Enough copies survived for new editions to be published in 1561 and 1562, after Elizabeth I came to power.\n\nJuly 12, 1562, Fray Diego de Landa, acting Bishop of Yucatán – then recently conquered by the Spanish – threw into the fires the books of the Maya. The number of destroyed books is greatly disputed. De Landa himself admitted to 27, other sources claim \"99 times as many\" – the later being disputed as an exaggeration motivated by anti-Spanish feeling, the so-called Black Legend. Only three Maya codices and a fragment of a fourth survive. Approximately 5,000 Maya cult images were also burned at the same time. The burning of books and images alike were part of de Landa's effort to eradicate the Maya \"idol worship\", which he considered \"diabolical\". As narrated by de Landa himself, he had gained access to the sacred books, transcribed on deerskin, by previously gaining the natives' trust and showing a considerable interest in their culture and language: \"We found a large number of books in these characters and, as they contained nothing in which were not to be seen as superstition and lies of the devil, we burned them all, which they [the Maya] lamented to an amazing degree, and which caused them much affliction.\" De Landa was later recalled to Spain and accused of having acted illegally in Yucatán, though eventually found not guilty of these charges. Present-day apologists for de Landa assert that, while he had destroyed the Maya books, his own \"Relación de las cosas de Yucatán\" is a major source for the Mayan language and culture. Allen Wells calls his work an \"ethnographic masterpiece\", while William J. Folan, Laraine A. Fletcher and Ellen R. Kintz have written that Landa's account of Maya social organization and towns before conquest is a \"gem.\"\n\nDuring the French Wars of Religion, in 1562 Huguenots sacked the Abbey of Cluny, destroying or dispersing many of the manuscripts in its library – one of the richest and most important in France and Europe. The surviving part of the library would be targeted again during the French Revolution.\n\nIn the 1566 iconoclastic wave known as \"Beeldenstorm\" (or \"Bildersturm\" in German (\"image/statue storm\"), also the \"Great Iconoclasm\" or \"Iconoclastic Fury\"), militant Protestants throughout the Habsburg Netherlands\nattacked the Catholic Churches (at the time, the only Churches allowed), tore down and destroyed icons and holy pictures, visible symbols of Catholicism. Books were not particularly targeted, but in some cases they too were caught up in the wave of destruction. For example, in the outbreaks at Utrecht, when great heaps of art treasures and vestments were piled in the streets and put to the torch, the entire library of the Friars Minor was destroyed as well.\n\nIn 1567, Philip II of Spain issued a royal decree in Spain forbidding Moriscos (Muslims who had been converted to Christianity but remained living in distinct communities) from the use of Arabic on all occasions, formal and informal, speaking and writing. Using Arabic in any sense of the word would be regarded as a crime. They were given three years to learn a \"Christian\" language, after which they would have to get rid of all Arabic written material. It is unknown how many of the Moriscos complied with the decree and destroyed their own Arabic books and how many kept them in defiance of the King's decree; the decree is known to have triggered one of the largest Morisco Revolts\n\nIn 1584 Pasquale Vassallo, a Maltese Dominican friar, wrote a collection of songs, of the kind known as \"canczuni\", in Italian and Maltese. The poems fell into the hands of other Dominican friars who denounced him for writing \"obscene literature\". At the order of the Inquisition in 1585 the poems were burned for this allegedly 'obscene' content.\n\nWith the 16th-century extension of the Portuguese Empire to India and Ceylon, the staunchly Catholic colonizers were hostile to Muslims they found living there. An aspect of this was a Portuguese hostility to and destruction of writings in the Arwi language, a type of Tamil with many Arabic words, written in a variety of the Arabic script and used by local Muslims. Much of Arwi cultural heritage was thus destroyed, though the precise extent of the destruction might never be known.\n\nThe 12-volume work known as the Florentine Codex, result of a decades-long meticulous research conducted by the Fransciscan Bernardino de Sahagún in Mexico, is among the most important sources on Aztec culture and society as they were before the Spanish conquest, and on the Nahuatl language. However, upon Sahagún's return to Europe in 1585, his original manuscripts – including the records of conversations and interviews with indigenous sources in Tlatelolco, Texcoco, and Tenochtitlan, and likely to have included much primary material which did not get into the final codex – were confiscated by the Spanish authorities, disappeared irrevocably, and are assumed to have been destroyed. The Florentine Codex itself was for centuries afterwards only known in heavily censored versions.\n\nIn 1622, during the Thirty Years War, Heidelberg was sacked by the troops of the Catholic League under general Von Tilly. The Bibliotheca Palatina, most important library of the German Renaissance, greatly suffered, many books being torn up by rampaging soldiers or \"dispersed among private hands\". Fortunately, Von Tilly and his employer, Maximilian of Bavaria, intervened to confiscate the remaining manuscripts and present them to Pope Gregory XV – their transfer from Protestant custody to a Catholic one saving them from destruction.\n\nMartin Luther's 1534 German translation of the Bible was burned in Catholic-dominated parts of Germany in 1624, by order of the Pope.\n\nThe 1624 book \"An Examination of the Traditions of the Pharisees\", written by the dissident Jewish intellectual Uriel da Costa, was burned in public by joint action of the Amsterdam Jewish Community and the city's Protestant-dominated City Council. The book, which questioned the fundamental idea of the immortality of the soul, was considered heretical by the Jewish community, which excommunicated him, and was arrested by the Dutch authorities as a public enemy to religion.\n\nThe theologian and scientist Marco Antonio de Dominis came in 1624 into conflict with the Inquisition in Rome and was declared \"a relapsed heretic\". He died in prison, which did not end his trial. On December 21, 1624 his body was burned together with his works.\n\nSixty identified printed books, pamphlets and broadsheets and 3 newsbooks were ordered to be burned during this turbulent period, spanning the English Civil War and Oliver Cromwell's rule.\n\nAs noted by Jonathan Israel, the Dutch Republic was more tolerant than other 17th Century states, allowing a wide range of religious groups to practice more or less freely and openly disseminate their views. However, the dominant Calvinist Church drew the line at Socinian and Anti-Trinitarian doctrines which were deemed to \"undermine the very foundations of Christianity\". In the late 1640s and 1650s, Polish and German holders of such views arrived in the Netherlands as refugees from persecution in Poland and Brandenburg. Dutch authorities made an effort to stop them spreading their theological writings, by arrests and fines as well as book-burning. For example, in 1645, the burgomasters at Rotterdam discovered a stock of a 100 books by Cellius and destroyed them. In 1659 Lancelot van Brederode published anonymously 900 copies of a 563-page book assailing the dominant Calvinist Church and the doctrine of the Trinity. The writer's identity was discovered and he was arrested and heavily fined, and the authorities made an effort to hunt down and destroy all copies of the book – but since it had already been distributed, many of the copies survived. The book \"Bescherming der Waerheyt Godts\" by Foeke Floris, a liberal Anabaptist preacher, was in 1687 banned by authorities in Friesland which deemed it to be Socinian, and all copies were ordered to be burned. In 1669 the Hof (high court) of Holland ordered the Amsterdam municipal authorities to raid booksellers in the city, seize and destroy Socinian books – especially the \"Biblioteca fratrum Polonorum\" (\"Book of the Polish Brethren\"), at the time known to be widely circulating in Amsterdam. The Amsterdam burgomasters felt obliged to go along with this, at least formally – but in fact some of them mitigated the practical effect by warning booksellers of impending raids.\n\nDuring the English Civil War in 1646, Thomas Fairfax ordered the New Model Army to burn the private library of the Earl of Worcester in Raglan Castle.\n\nThe first book burning incident in the Thirteen Colonies occurred in Boston in 1651 when William Pynchon, founder of Springfield, Massachusetts, published \"The Meritorious Price of Our Redemption\", which criticised the Puritans, who were then in power in Massachusetts. The book became the first banned book in North America, and subsequently all known copies were publicly burned. Pynchon left for England prior to a scheduled appearance in court, and never returned.\n\nDuring the Northern Wars in 1655, the well-known Bohemian Protestant theologian and educator John Amos Comenius, then living in exile at the city of Leszno in Poland, declared his support for the Protestant Swedish side. In retaliation, Polish partisans burned his house, his manuscripts, and his school's printing press. Notably, the original manuscript of Comenius' \"Pansophiæ Prodromus\" was destroyed in the fire; fortunately, the text had already been printed and thus survived.\n\nIn 1656 the authorities at Boston imprisoned the Quaker women preachers Ann Austin and Mary Fisher, who had arrived on a ship from Barbados. Among other things they were charged with \"bringing with them and spreading here sundry books, wherein are contained most corrupt, heretical, and blasphemous doctrines contrary to the truth of the gospel here professed amongst us\" as the colonial gazette put it. The books in question, about a hundred, were publicly burned in Boston's Market Square.\n\nAs part of his intensive campaign against the Jansenists, King Louis XIV of France in 1660 ordered the book \"Lettres provinciales\" by Blaise Pascal – which contained a fierce defense of the Jansenist doctrines – to be shredded and burnt. Despite Louis XIV absolute power in France, this decree proved ineffective. \"Lettres provinciales\" continued to be clandestinely printed and disseminated, eventually outliving the Jansenist controversy which gave it birth and becoming recognized as a masterpiece of French prose.\n\nIn 1666, during the Great Fire of London, many booksellers moved their books to the stone crypts of Old St. Paul's Cathedral to escape destruction of their books, but falling masonry broke through into the crypt and let the fire in and all the books were burned.\n\nIn 1683 several books by Thomas Hobbes and other authors were burnt in Oxford University.\n\nFollowing the 1686 capture of the Hungarian capital Buda by the Austrian-led Holy League, the victorious troops rampaged in the city and carried out a large-scale massacre of the resident Muslim population – as well as of the Buda Jews, who were considered allies of the Ottomans. The mosques and minarets of Buda were burned and destroyed, as were three synagogues. Numerous valuable books perished in the fire.\n\nIn 1697, gross negligence caused the burning down of the Tre Kronor in Stockholm, including the National Library and its archives, resulting in irreparable loss of much information about centuries of Swedish history.\n\nDuring the 1720s rabbis in Italy and Germany ordered the burning of the kabbalist writings of the then young Moshe Chaim Luzzatto. The Messianic messages which Luzzatto claimed to have gotten from a being called \"The Maggid\" were considered heretical and potentially highly disruptive of the Jewish communities' daily life, and Luzzatto was ordered to cease disseminating them. Though Luzzatto in later life got considerable renown among Jews and his later books were highly esteemed, most of the early writings were considered irrevocably lost until some of them turned up in 1958 in a manuscript preserved in the Library of Oxford.\n\nIn 1731 Count Leopold Anton von Firmian – Archbishop of Salzburg as well as its temporal ruler – embarked on a savage persecution of the Lutherans living in the rural regions of Salzburg. As well expelling tens of thousands of Protestant Salzburgers, the Archbishop ordered the wholesale seizure and burning of all Protestant books and Bibles.\n\nJohn Warburton was an avid collector of old book and manuscripts, but often careless. At one occasion, he left a pile of drama manuscripts in the kitchen. When he came looking for them a year later, nearly all were gone. His cook, Betsy Baker, had used over fifty manuscripts as scrap paper while cooking—either for lighting fires or for lining the bottoms of pie pans while baking pies.\n\nIn 1733, Venetian playwright Carlo Goldoni burned his tragedy \"Amalasunta\" due to negative reception by his audiences.\n\nIn 1750, the Imperial Book Commission of the Holy Roman Empire at Frankfurt/Main ordered the wholesale burning of the works of Johann Christian Edelmann, a radical disciple of Spinoza who had outraged the Lutheran and Calvinist clergies by his Deism, his championing of sexual freedom and his asserting that Jesus had been a human being and not the Son of God. In addition, Edelmann was also an outspoken opponent of royal absolutism. With Frankfurt's entire magistracy and municipal government in attendance and seventy guards to hold back the crowds, nearly a thousand copies of Edelmann's writings were tossed on to a tower of flaming birch wood. Edelmann himself was granted refuge in Berlin by Friedrich the Great, but on condition that he stop publishing his views.\n\nChina's Qianlong Emperor (1711–1799) embarked on an ambitious program – the Siku Quanshu, largest compilation of books in Chinese history (possibly in human history in general). The enterprise included, however, also the systematic banning and burning of books considered \"unfitting\" to be included – especially those critical, even by subtle hints, of the ruling Qing Dynasty. During this Emperor's nearly sixty years on the throne, the destruction of about 3000 \"evil\" titles (books, poems, and plays) was decreed, the number of individual copies confiscated and destroyed is variously estimated at tens of thousands or even hundreds of thousands. As well as systematically destroying the written works, 53 authors of such works were executed, in some cases by lingering torture or along with their family members (see literary inquisition#Qing, Qianlong Emperor#Burning of books and modification of texts). A famous earlier Chinese encyclopedia, \"Tiangong Kaiwu\" (Chinese: 天工開物) was included among the works banned and destroyed at this time, and was long considered to be lost forever – but some original copies were discovered, preserved intact, in Japan. The Qianlong Emperor's own masterpiece – the \"Siku Quanshu\", produced only in seven hand-written copies – was itself the target of later book burnings: the copies kept in Zhenjiang and Yangzhou were destroyed during the Taiping Rebellion, and in 1860, during the Second Opium War an Anglo-French expedition force burned most of the copy kept at Beijing's Old Summer Palace. The four remaining copies, though suffering some damage during World War II, are still preserved at four Chinese museums and libraries.\n\nThe 1760 tract by Simeon Uriel Freudenberger from Luzern, arguing that Wilhelm Tell was a myth and the acts attributed to him had not happened in reality, was publicly burnt in Altdorf, capital of the Swiss canton of Uri – where, according to the legend, William Tell shot the apple from his son's head.\nVoltaire, the pen name of François-Marie Arouet, was a writer whose works were burnt several times in pre-revolutionary France. In his \"Lettres philosophique\", published in Rouen in 1734, he described British attitudes toward government, literature, and religion, and clearly implied that the British constitutional monarchy was better than the French absolute one – which led to the book being burned.\n\nLater, Voltaire's \"Dictionnaire philosophique\", which was originally called the \"Dictionnaire philosophique portatif\", had its first volume, consisting of 73 articles in 344 pages, burnt upon release in June 1764.\n\nAn \"economic pamphlet\", \"Man With Forty Crowns\", was ordered to be burnt by Parliament, and a bookseller who had sold a copy was pilloried. It is said that one of the magistrates on the case exclaimed, \"Is it only his books we shall burn?\"\n\nIn 1787, an attempt by the Catholic authorities at Mainz to introduce vernacular hymn books encountered strong resistance from conservative Catholics, who refused to abandon the old Latin books and who seized and burned copies of the new German language books.\n\nIn 1790 and 1793 much of Cluny Abbey's library – earlier targeted in 1562 by Huguenots – was burnt during French Revolutionary violence.\n\nWith the Treaty of Leoben and the Treaty of Campo Formio in 1797, the French Republic gained the Ionian Islands, hitherto ruled by the Venetian Republic. France proceeded to annex the islands, organize them as the départements of Mer-Égée, Ithaque and Corcyre, and introduce there the principles and institutions of the French Revolution – initially getting great enthusiasm among the islands' inhabitants. The abolition of aristocratic privileges was accompanied by the public burning of the \"Libro d'Oro\" – formal directory of nobles in the Republic of Venice which included those of the Ionian Islands.\n\nMany French scholars accompanied Napoleon's invasion of Egypt in 1799, where they made many important finds. When forced to surrender to the British in 1801, the scholars initially strongly resisted the claim made by the British to have the collections of the expedition handed over. Étienne Geoffroy Saint-Hilaire ominously threatened that, were that British demand persisted in, history would record \"a second burning of a library in Alexandria\". The threat was, however, not carried out, and the finds were finally handed over and ended up in the British Museum.\n\nIn 1808, Rabbi Nachman of Breslov burned the only copy or copies of one of his own books for an unknown reason. Many Hasidic Jews continue to search for \"The Burned Book,\" as they call it, by looking for clues in his other writings.\n\nThe vast destruction caused by the great Moscow fire of 1812 (during the Napoleonic occupation) included destruction of the entire library of Count Aleksei Musin-Pushkin – statesman, historian and art collector. Among the irreplaceable old books destroyed was the only known manuscript of the Medieval \"Tale of Igor's Campaign\". Fortunately, Musin-Pushkin had already published the text; still, historians mourn the lost original.\n\nIn 1812 the Goa Inquisition was suppressed, after hundreds of years in which it had been enacting various kinds of religious persecution in the Portuguese colony of Goa, India. In the aftermath, most of the Goa Inquisition's records were destroyed – a great loss to historians, making it is impossible to know the exact number of the Inquisition's victims.\n\nOn August 24, 1814, during the Burning of Washington, British and Canadian troops set fire to the Capitol building, thereby destroying some 3,000 volumes in the initial collection of the Library of Congress which was established fourteen years earlier. Most of these books had been ordered from London before the outbreak of the War of 1812. Immediately following the British withdrawal, former President Thomas Jefferson sold to the US Government his entire private library, 6700 volumes, to replace the loss – from which the Library of Congress went on to expand to its enormous present size though a fire in 1851 destroyed around two-thirds of Jefferson's collection. The material destroyed in 1814 is the modern digital storage equivalent of 3.42 gigabytes and could easily be hosted on one single present-day smartphone, tablet, or SD card.\n\nOn October 18, 1817 about 450 students, members of the newly founded German Burschenschaften (\"fraternities\"), came together at Wartburg Castle to celebrate the German victory over Napoleon two years before, condemn conservatism and call for German unity. The Code Napoléon as well as the writings of German conservatives were ceremoniously burned 'in effigy': instead of the costly volumes, scraps of parchment with the titles of the books were placed on the bonfire. Among these was August von Kotzebue's \"History of the German Empires\". Karl Ludwig Sand, one of the students participating in this gathering, would assassinate Kotzebue two years later.\n\nThe poet William Blake died in 1827, and his manuscripts were left with his wife Catherine. After her death in 1831, the manuscripts were inherited by Frederick Tatham, who burned some that he deemed heretical or politically radical. Tatham was an Irvingite, one of the many fundamentalist movements of the 19th century, and opposed to any work that smacked of \"blasphemy\". At the time, Blake was nearly forgotten, and Tatham could act with impunity. When Blake was re-discovered some decades later and recognized as a major English poet, the damage was already done.\n\nIn 1842, officials at the school for the blind in Paris, France, were ordered by its new director, Armand Dufau, to burn books written in the new braille code. After every braille book at the institute that could be found was burned, supporters of the code's inventor, Louis Braille, rebelled against Dufau by continuing to use the code, and braille was eventually restored at the school.\nOn May 8, 1844, the Irish St. Augustine Church, Philadelphia was burned down by anti-Irish Nativist rioters (see Philadelphia Nativist riots). The fire also destroyed the nearby St. Augustine Academy, with many of the rare books in its library – though in this case the arsonists did not specifically target the books, but rather sought to destroy indiscriminately everything belonging to Irish Catholic immigrants.\n\nIn 1860, during the Second Opium War, twenty captive Westerners were tortured and killed by the Chinese government. In retaliation, the British High Commissioner to China, Lord Elgin, ordered the destruction of The Old Summer Palace in Beijing, which was then carried out by French and British troops. The palace complex had been built up by succeeding Chinese dynasties for nearly a thousand years, and many unique works of art were destroyed or looted by the soldiers. Also unique copies of Chinese literary work and compilations, stored there, were burned down as part of the general destruction.\n\nDuring the American Civil War, when Union Major General Benjamin Butler captured New Orleans he ordered the destruction of all copies of the music for the popular Confederate song \"The Bonnie Blue Flag\", as well as imposing a $500 fine on A. E. Blackmar who published this music.\n\nDuring the American Civil War Union campaign known as Sherman's March to the Sea, whole Confederate cities such as Atlanta and Columbia were burned down. Though books were not specifically targeted, the conflagration destroyed various private and public libraries. For example, the wartime diaries of Columbia resident Emma LeConte include the following reference: \"The library building opposite us seemed framed by the gushing flames and smoke, while through the windows gleamed the liquid fire\".\n\nIn 1868 the French police, under Napoleon the Third, seized the extensive papers and Europe-wide correspondence of the Parisian Pacifist and Social Reformer Edmond Potonie. The papers, which might have been of considerable value to historians, have disappeared irrevocably and are assumed to have been destroyed.\n\nFollowing its publication in 1869, the book on the Ancient Cypriots by Greek Cypriot priest and scholar Ieronymos Myriantheus was banned by the Ottoman Empire and 460 copies of it were burned. In a punitive measure towards Myriantheus the Ottomans refused to recognize him as Bishop of Kyrenia.\n\nIn the Siege of Strasbourg during the Franco-Prussian War, Strasbourg was heavily and indiscriminately bombarded by the Prussian Army, aiming to break the inhabitants' morale. On August 24 and 26, 1870, the Museum of Fine Arts was destroyed by fire, as was the Municipal Library housed in the Gothic former Dominican Church, with its unique collection of medieval manuscripts (most famously the Hortus deliciarum, as well as the oldest and most important manuscript of the \"Rolandslied\"), rare Renaissance books, archeological finds and historical artifacts. Many of the destroyed books and artifacts formed part of the German historical and cultural heritage, dating to periods long before Strasbourg became a French city.\n\nOn May 23, 1871, during the suppression of the Paris Commune, 12 men under the orders of a \"Communard\", Dardelle, set various public buildings in Paris on fire. The library and other portions of the Louvre were also set on fire and entirely destroyed. The museum itself was only miraculously saved.\n\nAnthony Comstock founded the New York Society for the Suppression of Vice(NYSSV) in 1873 and over the years burned 15 tons of books, 284,000 pounds of plate, and almost 4 million pictures. The NYSSV was financed by wealthy and influential New York philanthropists. Lobbying the United States Congress also led to the enactment of the Comstock laws.\n\nAfter establishing his rule over Sudan in 1885, Muhammad Ahmad, known as the Mahdi, authorized the burning of lists of pedigrees – which is his view accentuated tribalism at the expense of religious unity – as well as books of Muslim law and theology because of their association with the old order which the Mahdi had overthrown.\n\nFollowing the death of noted American poet Emily Dickinson in 1890, her sister Lavinia Dickinson burned almost all of her correspondences in keeping with Emily's wishes, but as it was unclear whether the forty notebooks and loose sheets all filled with almost 1800 poems were to be included in this, Lavinia saved these and began to publish the poems that year.\n\nIn 1901 the Russian Council of Ministers banned a five-volume work on the socio-economic conditions of Jews in the Russian Empire, the result of a decade-long comprehensive statistical research commissioned by Ivan Bloch. (It was entitled \"Comparison of the material and moral levels in the Western Great-Russian and Polish Regions\"). The research's conclusions – that Jewish economic activity was beneficial to the Empire – refuted antisemitic demagoguery and were disliked by the government, which ordered all copies to be seized and burned. Only a few survived, circulating as great rarities.\n\nIn the tense period following the Bosnian crisis of 1908–09, the Austrian authorities in Trieste cracked down on the Italian Irredentists in the city, who were seeking to end Austrian rule there and annex Trieste to Italy (which would actually happen ten years later, at the end of World War I). A very large quantity of Italian-language books and periodicals whose contents were deemed \"subversive\" were confiscated and consigned to destruction. The authorities had the condemned material meticulously weighted, it was found to measure no less than 4.7 metric tons. Thereupon, on February 13, 1909, the books and periodicals were officially burned at the Servola blast furnaces.\n\nJames Joyce had to go through considerable trouble before seeing his early book of short stories, \"Dubliners\", in print. Various publishers objected to sexually-explicit passages in the stories – in particular in \"Two Gallants\" – which might have led to prosecution under British law as it then stood. In 1909 Joyce thought his trouble was over when Maunsel & Roberts of Dublin consented to publish it and went as far as setting the book and printing sheets – at which stage the publisher suddenly got cold feet and refused to go through with publishing. Joyce offered to pay the printing costs himself if the sheets were turned over to him and he was allowed to complete the job elsewhere and distribute the book, but when Joyce arrived at the printers they refused to surrender the sheets. They burned them the next day. Joyce managed to save one copy, which he obtained \"by ruse\". These page proofs saved from Maunsel were used as copy when five years later Joyce found the publisher ready to publish the book.\n\nOn August 25, 1914, in the early stage of the First World War, the university library of Leuven, Belgium was destroyed by the German army, using petrol and incendiary pastilles, as part of brutal retaliations for the extensive activity of \"francs-tireurs\" against the occupying German forces. Among the 300,000 books destroyed were many irreplaceable books, including Gothic and Renaissance manuscripts. At the time, this destruction aroused shock and dismay around the world.\n\nOne of the notable losses was that of Rongorongo text E, which was one of only two dozen surviving examples of the as yet undeciphered rongorongo script of Easter Island. Rubbings and possibly 3-dimensional replicas were preserved in libraries and collections elsewhere.\n\nIn the aftermath of the Serbia defeat in the Serbian Campaign of World War I, the region of Old Serbia came under the control of Bulgarian occupational authorities. Bulgaria engaged in a campaign of cultural genocide. Serbian priests, professors, teachers and public officials, were deported into prison camps in pre–war Bulgaria or executed, they were later replaced by their Bulgarian counterparts. The use of the Serbian language was banned. Books in Serbian were confiscated from libraries, schools and private collections to be burned publicly. Books deemed to be of particular value were selected by Bulgarian ethnographers and sent back into Bulgaria.\n\nIn 1918 the \"Valley of the Squinting Windows\", by Brinsley MacNamara, was burned in Delvin, Ireland. MacNamara never returned to the area, his father James MacNamara was boycotted and subsequently emigrated, and a court case was even sought. The book criticised the village's inhabitants for being overly concerned with their image towards neighbours, and although it called the town \"Garradrimna,\" geographical details made it clear that Delvin was meant.\n\nIn June 1920 the left-wing German cartoonist George Grosz produced a lithographic collection in three editions entitled \"Gott mit uns\". A satire on German society and the counterrevolution, the collection was swiftly banned. Grosz was charged with insulting the army, which resulted in a court order to have the collection destroyed. The artist also had to pay a 300 German Mark fine.\n\nAt the culmination of the April 1922 fighting in and around the Four Courts in Dublin, as the Republican forces hitherto barricaded in the building were surrendering, the west wing was obliterated in a huge explosion, destroying the Irish Public Record Office located at the rear, with nearly one thousand years of irreplaceable archives being destroyed. Responsibility for the incident has never been established. Blame has been placed on either the national army which was shelling anti-Treaty forces or anti-Treaty forces who were believed to have purposely blown up the records in an act of defiance.\n\nDuring the Irish Civil War in 1923, the IRA targeted various country houses – among them Kilteragh in Foxrock, County Dublin, home of Sir Horace Plunkett, hated by Irish Nationalists for his support of Ireland remaining part of the British Commonwealth. He himself was abroad at the time, but the fire took with it many of the records of the Plunkett family, which had played a significant part in Irish history for several generations, and which Sir Horace had gathered to prepare a work on the subject.\n\nIn 1923 the anarchist Guy Aldred and his partner and co-worker Rose Witcop, a birth control activist, published together a British edition of Margaret Sanger's \"Family Limitation\" – a key pioneering work on the subject. They were denounced by a London magistrate for this \"indiscriminate\" publication. The two lodged an appeal, strongly supported in their legal struggle by Dora Russell – who, with her husband Bertrand Russell and John Maynard Keynes, paid the legal costs. However, it was to no avail. Despite expert testimony from a consultant to Guy's Hospital and evidence at the appeal that the book had only been sold to those aged over twenty-one, the court ordered the entire stock to be destroyed.\n\nThe works of some Jewish authors and other so-called \"degenerate\" books were burnt by the Nazis in the 1930s and 1940s. Richard Euringer, director of the libraries in Essen, identified 18,000 works deemed not to correspond with Nazi ideology, which were publicly burned.\n\nOn May 10, 1933 on the Opernplatz in Berlin, SA and Nazi youth groups burned around 25,000 books from the Institut für Sexualwissenschaft and the Humboldt University, including works by Albert Einstein, Vicki Baum, Bertolt Brecht, Heinrich Heine, Helen Keller, Thomas Mann, Karl Marx, Erich Maria Remarque, Frank Wedekind, Ernest Hemingway and H.G. Wells. Student groups throughout Germany in 34 towns also carried out their own book burnings on that day and in the following weeks. Erich Kästner wrote an ironic account (published only after the fall of Nazism) of having witnessed the burning of his own books on that occasion. Radio broadcasts of the burnings were played in Berlin and elsewhere, and 40,000 turned up to hear Joseph Goebbels make a speech about the acts. See here for a partial list of authors whose books were burned.\n\nIn May 1995, Micha Ullman's underground was inaugurated on Bebelplatz square in Berlin, where the Nazi book burnings began. The memorial consists of a window on the surface of the plaza, under which vacant bookshelves are lit and visible. A bronze plaque bears a quote by Heinrich Heine: \"Where books are burned in the end people will burn.\"\n\nTrustees of Warsaw, Indiana ordered the burning of all the library's works by local author Theodore Dreiser in 1935.\n\nIoannis Metaxas, who held dictatorial power in Greece between 1936 and 1941, conducted an intensive campaign against what he considered \"Anti-Greek literature\" and viewed as \"dangerous to the national interest\". Targeted under this definition and put to the fire were not only the writings of dissident Greek writers, but even works by such authors as Goethe, Shaw, and Freud.\n\nIn his \"Open Letter to Stalin\" Old Bolshevik and former Soviet diplomat Fyodor Raskolnikov alleges that Soviet libraries began circulating long lists of books, pamphlets and pictures to be burnt on sight, following Joseph Stalin's ascension to power. Those lists include the names of authors whose works were deemed as undesirable. Raskolnikov was surprised to find his work on the October Revolution in one of those lists. The lists contained numerous books from the West which were deemed decadent.\n\nIn 1939, shortly after the surrendering of Barcelona, Franco's troops burned the entire library of Pompeu Fabra, the main author of the normative reform of contemporary Catalan language, while shouting \"¡Abajo la inteligencia!\" (Down with intelligentsia!)\n\nIn May 1940, during Nazi Germany's offensive in Europe in World War II, the university library of Leuven, Belgium was destroyed by the German army and 900,000 books burned. This was after 300,000 others had burned when the library was attacked in World War I.\n\nDuring World War II, Japanese military forces destroyed or partly destroyed numerous Chinese libraries, including libraries at the National University of Tsing Hua, Peking (lost 200,000 of 350,000 books), the University Nan-k'ai, T'ien-chin (totally destroyed, 224,000 books lost), Institute of Technology of He-pei, T'ien-chin (completely destroyed), Medical College of He-pei, Pao-ting (completely destroyed), Agricultural College of He-pei, Pao-ting (completely destroyed), University Ta Hsia, Shanghai (completely destroyed), University Kuang Hua, Shanghai (completely destroyed), National University of Hunan (completely destroyed). In addition some or all of the collections of other libraries were removed to Japan, including the University of Nanking, Royal Asiatic Society in Shanghai, University of Shanghai, and Soochow University\n\nIn September 1940 during the Blitz in London, a plane commanded by Nazi Germany dropped a bomb on the British Museum. It is not believed that it was intended to hit the Museum in particular, but 124 volumes were destroyed and 304 other volumes were damaged past repair.\n\nFrom May 10–11, 1941, the Museum's book collections (now the British Library) were bombed again, this time burning more than 150,000 books.\n\nOn night of 29–30 December 1940, the German Air Force conducted one of the most destructive air raids of the Blitz. Approximately 100,000 bombs, many of them incendiary, fell on the city, causing what an American correspondent called the \"Second Great Fire of London\". Though not intentionally targeted, one of the most heavily damaged parts of London was the vicinity of Ave Maria Lane and Paternoster Row, an area known since the 19th century as the center of the London publishing and book trade. The buildings and stock of 20 publishing houses were totally or partially destroyed. Stationers' Hall, neighbouring offices, the book wholesalers Simpkin Marshall, and several bookshops were lost. An estimated five million books were lost in the fires caused by tens of thousands of incendiary bombs - including, on the one hand, old and rare books and on the other the whole or most of the print run of recently published books.\n\nIn 1943 Jean Genet – then an obscure petty criminal – underwent one of the many prison terms in his life. The prison authorities provided to prisoners sheets of rough brown paper, from which they were supposed to make bags. Instead, Genet used the paper to write a largely autobiographical book which would eventually be named \"Notre Dame des Fleurs\" (\"Our Lady of the Flowers\"). As later recounted by Jean-Paul Sartre in his forward to the book, a prison guard discovered that the prisoner Genet had been making this \"unauthorized\" use of the paper, confiscated the manuscript and burned it. Undaunted, Genet wrote it all over again. The second version survived and Genet took it with him when leaving the prison. It was this book which eventually established Genet's literary credentials and enabled him to leave the world of crime and become an internationally known author.\n\nOn December 13, 1943 in Alessandria, Italy, a mob of supporters of the German-imposed Italian Social Republic attacked the synagogue of the city's small Jewish community, on Via Milano. Books and manuscripts were taken out of the synagogue and set on fire at Piazza Rattazzi. The burning of the Jewish books was a prelude to a mass arrest and deportation of the Jews themselves, most of whom perished in Auschwitz.\n\nDuring World War II the French writer and anti-Nazi resistance fighter André Malraux worked on a long novel, \"The Struggle Against the Angel\", the manuscript of which was destroyed by the Gestapo upon his capture in 1944. The name was apparently inspired by the Jacob story in the Bible. A surviving opening part named \"The Walnut Trees of Altenburg\", was published after the war.\n\nMuch of Warsaw, Poland was destroyed during World War II by the Nazis: an approximated 85% of buildings, including 16,000,000 volumes. 10% of the buildings were destroyed in the Invasion of Poland that ignited the war in 1939, 15% in the reorganization of Warsaw and the first Warsaw Ghetto uprising, 25% in the second and far more famous Uprising, and the last 35% due to systematic German actions after the Uprising was defeated. 14 libraries, not including the libraries in the University of Warsaw and the Warsaw Institute of Technology that were also razed, were completely burned to the ground. German \"Verbrennungskommandos\" (Burning detachments) were responsible for much of the targeted attacks on libraries and other centers of knowledge and learning.\n\nIn October 1944, the National Library of Poland's manuscript collection was burned to erase Polish national history.\n\nPart of the Krasiński Library's building was destroyed in September 1939, leading to its collections, which had almost all survived, being moved in 1941. In September 1944, an original collection of 250,000 items was shelled by German artillery, although many books were saved by being thrown out the windows by library staff. In October, what had survived was deliberately burned by the authorities, including 26,000 manuscripts, 2,500 incunables (printed before 1501), 80,000 early printed books, 100,000 drawings and printmakings, 50,000 note and theatre manuscripts, and many maps and atlases.\n\nThe Załuski Library – established in 1747 and thus the oldest public library in Poland and one of the oldest and most important libraries in Europe – was burned down during the Uprising in October 1944. Out of about 400,000 printed items, maps and manuscripts, only some 1800 manuscripts and 30,000 printed materials survived. Unlike earlier Nazi book burnings where specific books were deliberately targeted, the burning of this library was part of the general setting on fire of a large part of the city of Warsaw.\n\nThe extensive library of the Polish Museum, Rapperswil, founded in 1870 in Rapperswil, Switzerland, had been created when Poland was not a country and was thus moved to Warsaw in 1927. In September 1939, the National Polish Museum in Rapperswil along with the Polish School at Batignolles, lost almost their entire collection during the German bombardment of Warsaw.\n\nOn April 6, 1941, during World War II, German bomber planes under orders by Nazi Germany specifically targeted the National Library of Serbia in Belgrade. The entire collection was destroyed, including 1,300 ancient Cyrillic manuscripts and 300,000 books.\n\non August 11, 1944, the Bibliothèque municipale de Douai, France, was burned in an Allied bombing of the city following the Normandy landings. The library had been founded by Louis XV in 1767 and included many rare and valuable books. Also destroyed in the fire were many of the former holdings of the University of Douai and the collections of the Jesuits of the College of Anchin, both of which had been transferred to the Municipal Library during the French Revolution.\n\nThe firebombing of German cities during World War II caused extensive destruction of German libraries, including the Library of the Technical University of Aachen (50,000 volumes), the Berlin Staatsbibliothek (2 million volumes), the Berlin University Library (20,000 volumes), the Bonn University Library (25% of its holdings), the Bremen Staatsbibliothek (150,000 volumes), the Hessische Landesbibliothek in Darmstadt (760,000 volumes), the Library of the Technical University in Darmstadt (two-thirds of its collection), the Stadt- und Landesbibliothek in Dortmund (250,000 of 320,000 volumes), the Sächsische Landesbibliothek in Dresden (300,000 volumes), the Stadtbibliothek in Dresden (200,000 volumes), the Essen Stadtbücherei (130,000 volumes), the Frankfurt Stadt- und Universitätsbibliothek (550,000 volumes, 440,000 doctoral dissertations, 750,000 patents), the Giessen University Library (nine-tenths of its collection), the Greifswald University Library (17,000 volumes), the Hamburg Staats- und Universitätsbibliothek (600,000 volumes), the Hamburg Commerz-Bibliothek (174,000 of 188,000 volumes), the Hannover Stadtbibliothek (125,000 volumes), the Badische Landesbibliothek in Karlsruhe (360,000 volumes), the Library of the Technical University in Karlsruhe (63,000 volumes), the Kassel Landesbibliothek (350,000 of 400,000 volumes), the Murhardsche Bibliothek in Kassel (100,000 volumes), the Kiel University Library (250,000 volumes), the Leipzig Stadtbibliothek (175,000 of 181,000 volumes), the Magdeburg Stadtbibliothek (140,000 of 180,000 volumes), the Marburg University Library (50,000 volumes), the Bayerische Staatsbibliothek in Munich (500,000 volumes), the Munich University Library (350,000 volumes), the Munich Stadtbibliothek (80,000 volumes), the Munich Benedictine Library (120,000 volumes), the Münster University Library (360,000 volumes), the Nürnberg Stadtbibliothek (100,000 volumes), the Württembergische Landesbibliothek in Stuttgart (580,000 volumes), the Library of the Technical University in Stuttgart (50,000 volumes), the Würzburg University Library (200,000 volumes and 230,000 doctoral dissertations). The above is only a shortlist of the most notable losses; in all it is estimated that a third of all German books were destroyed. Among the books destroyed at the Municipal Library of Frankfurt was its Cairo Genizah document collection – an important resource for Jewish History which was spared by the Nazis and destroyed in the Allied bombing. It should also be mentioned that on May 10, 1945, soldiers of the Red Army destroyed parts of the collection of the University of Breslau.\n\nAs the Nazis were retreating from Brussels, they set fire to the Palace of Justice and its library. An eye witness reported, \"In the Place Poelaert the people formed a chain to rescue the valuable books from the burning library.\"\n\nFollowing the liberation of Norway from Nazi occupation in 1945, angry crowds burned the books of Knut Hamsun in public in major Norwegian cities, due to Hamsun's having collaborated with the Nazis.\n\nOn May 13, 1946 the Allied Control Council issued a directive for the confiscation of all media that could supposedly contribute to Nazism or militarism. As a consequence a list was drawn up of over 30,000 titles, ranging from school textbooks to poetry, which were then banned. All copies of books on the list were to be confiscated and destroyed; the possession of a book on the list was made a punishable offence. All the millions of copies of these books were to be confiscated and destroyed. The representative of the Military Directorate admitted that the order was no different in intent or execution from Nazi book burnings. All confiscated literature was reduced to pulp instead of burning. In August 1946 the order was amended so that \"In the interest of research and scholarship, the Zone Commanders (in Berlin the Komendantura) may preserve a limited number of documents prohibited in paragraph 1. These documents will be kept in special accommodation where they may be used by German scholars and other German persons who have received permission to do so from the Allies only under strict supervision by the Allied Control Authority.\n\nFollowing the suppression of the pro-Soviet Kurdish Republic of Mahabad in north Iran in December 1946 and January 1947, members of the victorious Iranian Army burned all Kurdish-language books that they could find, as well as closing down the Kurdish printing press and banning the teaching of Kurdish.\n\nIn 1948, children – overseen by priests, teachers, and parents – publicly burned several hundred comic books in both Spencer, West Virginia, and Binghamton, New York. Once these stories were picked up by the national press wire services, similar events followed in many other cities.\n\nAround 1949, the books that Shen Congwen (pseudonym of Shen Yuehuan) had written in the period 1922–1949 were banned in the Republic of China and both banned and subsequently burned by booksellers in the People's Republic of China.\n\nAs part of Joseph Stalin's efforts to stamp out Jewish culture in the Soviet Union in the late 1940s and early 1950s, the Judaica collection in the library of Birobidzhan, capital of the Jewish Autonomous Oblast on the Chinese border, was burned.\n\nIn 1953 United States Senator Joseph McCarthy recited before his subcommittee and the press a list of supposedly pro-communist authors whose works his aide Roy Cohn found in the State Department libraries in Europe. The Eisenhower State Department bowed to McCarthy and ordered its overseas librarians to remove from their shelves \"material by any controversial persons, Communists, fellow travelers, etc.\" Some libraries burned the newly forbidden books. President Dwight D. Eisenhower initially agreed that the State Department should dispose of books advocating communism: \"I see no reason for the federal government to be supporting something that advocated its own destruction. That seems to be the acme of silliness.\" However, at Dartmouth College in June 1953, Eisenhower urged Americans concerning libraries: \"Don't join the book burners. Don't be afraid to go in your library and read every book...\"\n\nYrjö Leino, a Communist activist, was Finland's Minister of the Interior in the crucial 1945–1948 period. In 1948 he suddenly resigned for reasons which remain unclear and went into retirement. Leino returned to the public eye in 1958 with his memoirs of his time as Minister of the Interior. The manuscript was prepared in secret – even most of the staff of the publishing company Tammi were kept in ignorance – but the project was revealed by Leino because of an indiscretion just before the planned publication. It turned out the Soviet Union was very strongly opposed to publication of the memoirs. The Soviet Union's Chargé d'affaires in Finland Ivan Filippov (Ambassador Viktor Lebedev had suddenly departed from Finland a few weeks earlier on October 21, 1958) demanded that Prime Minister Karl-August Fagerholm's government prevent the release of Leino's memoirs. Fagerholm said that the government could legally do nothing, because the work had not yet been released nor was there censorship in Finland. Filippov advised that if Leino's book was published, the Soviet Union would draw \"serious conclusions\". Later the same day Fagerholm called the publisher, Untamo Utrio, and it was decided that the January launch of the book was to be cancelled. Eventually, the entire print run of the book was destroyed at the Soviet Union's request. Almost all of the books – some 12,500 copies – were burned in August 1962 with the exception of a few volumes which were furtively sent to political activists. Deputy director of Tammi Jarl Hellemann later argued that the fuss about the book was completely disproportionate to its substance, describing the incident as the first instance of Finnish self-censorship motivated by concerns about relations to the Soviet Union (see Finlandization). The book was finally published in 1991, when interest in it had largely dissipated.\n\nNoted psychiatrist Wilhelm Reich was prosecuted in 1954, following an investigation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration in connection with his use of orgone accumulators. Reich refused to defend himself, and a federal judge ordered all of his orgone energy equipment and publications to be seized and destroyed. In June 1956, federal agents burned many of the books at Reich's estate near Rangeley, Maine. Later that year, and in March 1960, an additional 6 tons of Reich's books, journals and papers were burned in a public incinerator in New York. Reich died of heart failure while in federal prison in November 1957.\n\nCommunist books were burned by the revolutionaries during the Hungarian Revolution of 1956. 122 communities reported book burnings.\n\nOn June 7, 1962 the Organisation Armée Secrète (OAS), the movement of French colonists opposing Algerian independence, set fire to the University of Algiers library building, destroying about 500,000 books. The burning of the library was considered either part of a desperate last-ditch effort to prevent Algerian independence – which was to be finally clinched a month later in the Algerian independence referendum – or as a savage scorched earth tactic intended to deny cultural resources to the future independent Algeria. The burning of the university library sent shock waves, especially across the Arab world. The effect on other countries in the region can be seen through commemorative stamps. Egypt, Iraq, Jordan (and Algeria itself, after independence) introduced stamps depicting either the burning of a book, or of the library itself. The university library was subsequently rebuilt and presently has some 800,000 books.\n\nFollowing the 1964 Brazilian coup d'état, General Justino Alves Bastos, commander of the Third Army, ordered, in Rio Grande do Sul, the burning of all \"subversive books\". Among the books he branded as subversive was Stendhal's \"The Red and the Black\".\n\nIt is the Chinese tradition to record family members in a book, including every male born in the family, who they are married to, etc. Traditionally, only males' names are recorded in the books. During the Cultural Revolution (1966–1976), many such books were forcibly destroyed or burned to ashes, because they were considered by the Chinese Communist Party as among the Four Old Things to be eschewed.\nAlso many copies of classical works of Chinese literature were destroyed, though – unlike the genealogy books – these usually existed in many copies, some of which survived. Many copies of the Buddhist, Taoist and Confucian books were destroyed, thought to be promoting the \"old\" thinking.\n\nIn 1965, the British publishing house Penguin Books was torn by an intense power struggle, with chief editor Tony Godwin and the board of directors attempting to remove the company founder Allen Lane. One of the acts taken by Lane in an effort to retain his position was to steal and burn the entire print run of the English edition of \"Massacre\" by the French cartoonist Siné, whose content was reportedly \"deeply offensive\".\n\nJohn Lennon, member of the popular music group The Beatles, sparked outrage from religious conservatives in the Southern 'Bible Belt' states when his quote 'The Beatles are more popular than Jesus' was taken out of context from an interview he had done in England five months previous to the Beatles' 1966 US Tour (their final tour as a group). Disc Jockeys, evangelists, and the Ku Klux Klan implored the local public to bring their Beatles records, books, magazines, posters and memorabilia to Beatles bonfire burning events.\n\nAfter the victory of Augusto Pinochet's forces in the Chilean coup of 1973, bookburnings of Marxist and other works ensued. Journalist Carlos Rama reported in February 1974 that up to that point, destroyed works included: the handwritten Chilean Declaration of Independence by Bernardo O'Higgins, thousands of books of Editora Nacional Quimantú including the \"Complete Works\" of Che Guevara, thousands of books in the party headquarters of the Chilean Socialist Party and MAPU, personal copies of works by Marx, Lenin, and anti-fascist thinkers, and thousands of copies of newspapers and magazines favorable to Salvador Allende including \"Chile Today\".\n\nFollowing The Fall of Saigon, Viet Cong gained nominal authority in South Vietnam and conducted several book burnings along with eliminating any cultural forms of South Vietnam. This act of destruction was made since the Vietnamese Communists condemned those values were corruptible ones shaped by \"puppet government\" (derogatory words to indicate Republic of Vietnam) and American Imperialism.\n\nIn May 1981 a mob composed of Sinhalese civilians and plainclothes police officers went on a rampage in minority Tamil-dominated northern Jaffna, Sri Lanka, and burned down the Jaffna Public Library. At least 95,000 volumes were destroyed, including a very rare collection of ancient palm leaf volumes.\n\nThe 1988 publication of the novel \"The Satanic Verses\", by Salman Rushdie, was followed by angry demonstrations and riots around the world by followers of political Islam who considered it blasphemous. In the United Kingdom, book burnings were staged in the cities of Bolton and Bradford. In addition, five UK bookstores selling the novel were the target of bombings, and two bookstores in Berkeley, California were firebombed. The author was condemned to death by various Islamist clerics and lives in hiding.\n\nIt is estimated that over 2.8 millions of books have been burned in Croatia during 1990's by Croatian nationalists. The books in question were mostly by Serbian or Yugoslavian authors and those printed in Cyrillic alphabet. Other books that ended up in flames were books on communism and socialism published during socialist era in Yugoslavia, as well as books about Jasenovac concentration camp.\n\nOn August 25, 1992, the National and University Library of Bosnia and Herzegovina in Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina was firebombed and destroyed by Serbian nationalists. Almost all the contents of the library were destroyed, including more than 1.5 million books that included 4,000 rare books, 700 manuscripts, and 100 years of Bosnian newspapers and journals.\n\nGeorgian troops entered Abkhazia on August 14, 1992, sparking a 14-month war. At the end of October, the Abkhazian Research Institute of History, Language and Literature named after Dmitry Gulia, which housed an important library and archive, was torched by Georgian troops; also targeted was the capital's public library. It seems to have been a deliberate attempt by the Georgian paramilitary soldiers to wipe out the region's historical record.\n\nIn 1987, the Nasir-i Khusraw Foundation was established in Kabul, Afghanistan due to the collaborative efforts of several civil society and academic institutions, leading scholars and members of the Ismaili community. This site included video and book publishing facilities, a museum, and a library. The library was a marvel in its extensive collection of fifty-five thousand books, available to all students and researchers, in the languages of Arabic, English, and Pashto. In addition, its Persian collection was unparalleled – including an extremely rare 12th-century manuscript of Firdawsi's epic masterpiece \"The Book of Kings (Shāhnāma)\". The Ismaili collection of the library housed works from Hasan-i Sabbah and Nasir-i Khusraw, and the seals of the first Aga Khan. With the withdrawal of the Soviet forces from Afghanistan in the late 1980s and the strengthening of the Taliban forces, the library collection was relocated to the valley of Kayan. However, on August 12, 1998, the Taliban fighters ransacked the press, the museum, the video facilities and the library, destroying some books in the fire and throwing others in a nearby river. Not a single book was spared, including a thousand-year-old Quran.\n\nSome days after publishing a novel entitled \"The Gods Laugh on Mondays\" by Iranian novelist Reza Khoshnazar, men came at night saying they are Islamic building inspectors and torched the publisher book shop in August 22, 1995.\n\nThe Serbian army used the National Library of Kosovo as a command and control center during the Kosovo War. The materials inside the National Library had been stolen, reading room furniture smashed, and the card catalogue had been dumped in the basement. The library workers were kept out for a week while the KFOR peacekeeping troops checked the building for any hidden explosives.\n\nAccording to national and international organizations about 100,000 books in Albanian language have been sent to the paper mill in Lipjan for pulping. Among those books were collections of national heritage, which explained the nation's origins and history.\nIn 2001, UC Berkeley students burned copies of Daniel J. Flynn's book on Mumia Abu-Jamal after verbally shouting him down during his scheduled speech.\n\nIn January 2001, the Egyptian Ministry of Culture ordered the burning of some 6,000 books of homoerotic poetry by the well-known 8th Century Persian-Arab poet Abu Nuwas, even though his writings are considered classics of Arab literature.\nFollowing the 2003 invasion of Iraq, Iraq's national library and the Islamic library in central Baghdad were burned and destroyed by \"looters\". The national library housed rare volumes and documents from as far back as the 16th century, including entire royal court records and files from the period when Iraq was part of the Ottoman Empire. The destroyed Islamic library of Baghdad included one of the oldest surviving copies of the Qur'an.\n\nThere have been several incidents of Harry Potter books being burned, including those directed by churches at Alamogordo, New Mexico and Charleston, South Carolina in 2006. More recently books have been burnt in response to J.K. Rowling's comments on Donald Trump. See Religious debates over the Harry Potter series.\n\nOn May 27, 2007, Tom Wayne and W.E. Leathem, the proprietors of Prospero's Books, a used book store in Kansas City, Missouri, publicly burned a portion of their inventory to protest what they perceived as society's increasing indifference to the printed word. The protest was interrupted by the Kansas City Fire Department on the grounds that Wayne and Leathem had failed to obtain the required permits.\nIn May 2008, a \"fairly large\" number of New Testaments were burned in Or Yehuda, Israel. Conflicting accounts have the deputy mayor of Or Yehuda, Uzi Aharon (of Haredi party Shas), claiming to have organized the burnings or to have stopped them. He admitted involvement in collecting New Testaments and \"Messianic propaganda\" that had been distributed in the city. The burning apparently violated Israeli laws about destroying religious items.\n\nThe Amazing Grace Baptist Church of Canton, North Carolina, headed by Pastor Marc Grizzard, intended to hold a book burning on Halloween 2009. The church, being a King James Version exclusive church, held all other translations of the Bible to be heretical, and also considered both the writings of Christian writers and preachers such as Billy Graham and T.D. Jakes and most musical genres to be heretical expressions. However, a confluence of rain, oppositional protesters and a state environmental protection law against open burning resulted in the church having to retreat into the edifice to ceremoniously tear apart and dump the media into a trash can (as recorded on video which was submitted to People For the American Way's Right Wing Watch blog); nevertheless, the church claimed that the book \"burning\" was a success.\n\nIn 2009 the US military burned Bibles in Pashto and Dari that were part of an unauthorized program to proselytize Christianity in Afghanistan.\n\nTerry Jones of the Dove World Outreach Center in Gainesville, Florida announced in July 2010 that he threatened to burn 200 copies of the Quran on September 11, 2010, then did not do so. However, after promising not to, he proceeded to burn a Qur'an in the sanctuary of the church March 20, 2011\n\nOn September 11, 2010:\n\nOn September 20, 2010 the Pentagon bought and burned 9,500 copies of \"Operation Dark Heart\", nearly all the first run copies for supposedly containing classified information.\n\nDuring the Libyan Civil War, copies of Muammar Gaddafi's Green Book were burned by anti-Gaddafi demonstrators.\n\nOn December 19, 2011, protesters against the military government in Egypt, burnt the library in the Institut d'Égypte in Cairo. Images of men on TV were shown dancing around the fire. They burnt thousands of rare books, journals and writings. The cost of the material is estimated at tens of millions of dollars – much that was lost was considered priceless.\n\nSometime during the weekend of April 15–17, 2011, books and other items designated for a new public library in the Fundamentalist Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints polygamous community Colorado City, Arizona were removed from the facility where they had been stored and burned nearby. A lawyer for some FLDS members has stated that the burning was the result of a cleanup of the property and that no political or religious statement was intended, however the burned items were under lock and key and were not the property of those who burned them.\n\nOn February 22, 2012, 4 copies of the Qur'an were burned at Bagram Airfield due to being among 1,652 books slated for destruction. The remaining books, which officials claimed were being used for communication among extremists, were saved and put into storage.\n\nIslamist rebels in Timbuktu (in the breakaway region of Azawad in Mali) reportedly burned two libraries containing thousands of the Timbuktu Manuscripts on January 27–28, 2013. Dating back as far as 1202 and written in such languages as Arabic, Songhai, Tamasheq, Bambara, Hebrew, and Turkish, the writings were almost wholly undigitised. Notable works included copies of the \"Tarikh al-Sudan\" and Heinrich Barth's letters of recommendation. The rebels are described as being affiliated with al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb (AQIM).\n\nIn May 2013, two San Jose State University professors, department chair Alison Bridger, PhD and associate professor Craig Clements, PhD, were photographed holding a match to a book they disagreed with, \"The Mad, Mad, Mad World of Climatism\", by Steve Goreham. The university initially posted it on their website, but then took it down.\n\nDuring the 2014 unrest in Bosnia and Herzegovina, large amounts of historical documents were destroyed when sections of the Archives of Bosnia and Herzegovina, housed in the presidential building, were set on fire. Among the lost archival material were documents and gifts from the Ottoman period, original documents from the 1878–1918 Austro-Hungarian rule in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as documentations of the interwar period, the 1941–1945 rule of the Independent State of Croatia, papers from the following years, and about 15000 files from the 1996–2003 Human Rights Chamber for Bosnia and Herzegovina.\nIn the repositories that were burnt, about 60 percent of the material was lost, according to estimates by Šaban Zahirović, the head of the Archives.\n\nSeven Bosnian rioters suspected of having started the fire; two (Salem Hatibović and Nihad Trnka) were arrested. On April 4, 2014, Hatibović and Trnka were released (although still under suspicion of terrorism), on conditions that they do not leave their places of residence and abstain from having any contact with each other. Both were also mandated to report to the police once every week.\n\n\"\" by American Indologist Wendy Doniger was originally highly successful in India. According to the \"Hindustan Times\", \"The Hindus\" was a No. 1 bestseller in its non-fiction category in the week of October 15, 2009. However, the author's proclaimed aim of setting \"an alternative to the narrative of Hindu history\" aroused controversy and the anger of more conservative Hindu groups. In February 2014, litigation was started against the book on the grounds of its being \"deliberate and malicious acts intended to outrage the feelings of a religious community.\" As a result, the publisher – Penguin Books' Indian subsidiary, \"Penguin India\" – was obliged to withdraw the book from circulation and destroy all remaining copies within six months. The court order was not completely carried out; some bookshops in India are known to be still selling it, wrapped in brown envelopes.\n\nNumerous libraries and other cultural properties have been destroyed by the Islamic State, including the Mosul Public library.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54274232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54274232", "title": "List of sporting events held in Thailand", "text": "List of sporting events held in Thailand\n\nThis is a list of sporting events held in Thailand.\n\n"}
{"id": "10716695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10716695", "title": "List of wars in Ireland", "text": "List of wars in Ireland\n\nThis is a list of wars and other armed conflicts that have taken place in Ireland.\n\n"}
{"id": "20513354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20513354", "title": "Lotoko", "text": "Lotoko\n\nLotoko, also known by the slang term \"pétrole\", is a home-distilled alcoholic drink or \"moonshine\" in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. \n\nLotoko is usually made from maize, but sometimes from cassava or plantain. Heads of corn are cut up and boiled into a mash which is then fermented and distilled using improvised stills made from cut down oil drums. Because of the woody core of the cobs of corn, the alcohol produced contains high levels of methanol which is toxic. Although it is officially banned, because of its high alcohol content (over 50%), its production is widespread in the Democratic Republic of Congo. Lotoko made from cassava or plantains doesn't carry the same methanol risk. \n\nLotoko production, being a cottage industry, is very low-tech. It provides its mainly female producers with a degree of financial independence. \n\nLocal NGOs have expressed concern as to its health effects in the communities of Kinshasa, where it costs 200 to 300 FC, compared to 600 FC for commercially brewed beers.\n\nLotoko is a Lingala word and is known country-wide.\n"}
{"id": "48787944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48787944", "title": "Missing and murdered Indigenous women", "text": "Missing and murdered Indigenous women\n\nMissing and murdered Indigenous women (MMIW) is an issue affecting Indigenous people in Canada and the United States, including the First Nations, Inuit, Métis and Native American communities. It has been described as a Canadian national crisis. Canadian indigenous women are disproportionately affected by all forms of violence, and are significantly over-represented among female Canadian homicide victims. They are also far more likely than other women to go missing.\n\nThe exact number of Indigenous women and girls who have gone missing or have been murdered in Canada since the 1970s is uncertain, with estimates ranging from approximately 1,000 to nearly 4,000. In response to activists, the Canadian government funded data collection on missing and murdered women, ending in 2010; the Native Women's Association of Canada has documented 582 cases since the 1960s, with 39% occurring after 2000. But advocacy groups say that many more women have been missing, with the highest number of cases in British Columbia. Some notable cases have included 19 women killed in the Highway of Tears murders, and up to 49 women, many of whom were indigenous, murdered by Robert Pickton.\n\nResponding to repeated calls of Indigenous groups, other activists, and non-governmental organizations, the Government of Canada under Prime Minister Justin Trudeau established the National Inquiry into Missing and Murdered Indigenous Women and Girls in September 2016.\n\nAs a group that has been \"socially, economically, and politically marginalized\", Indigenous women have been frequent targets for hatred and violence. Underlying factors such as poverty and homelessness contribute to their victimization, as do historical factors such as racism, sexism, and the legacy of colonialism. The trauma caused by abuses under Canada's residential school system also likely plays a role. Indigenous women are between 3 and 3.5 times more likely to be victims of violent crime than other women, and the violence they face is often more severe.\n\nCanada does not maintain a database for missing people, which makes it difficult to determine the rate at which Indigenous women are murdered or go missing, or to compare their data to those of other populations. In addition, various groups have collected data from different periods of time and different criteria. Available data suggests, however, that the number of missing and murdered Indigenous women is disproportionately high compared to their percentage of the total population.\n\nAlthough Indigenous women and girls make up only 4% of the female population in Canada, they represented 16% of all female homicides in Canada between 1980 and 2012. A 2011 Statistics Canada report estimated that Indigenous women are seven times more likely than other women to be victims of a homicide. According to a 2007 study by the province of Saskatchewan – the only province to have systematically reviewed its missing persons files for cases involving Indigenous women – Indigenous women were found to have made up 6% of the province's population, and 60% of the province's missing women cases.\n\nThe total number of missing and murdered Indigenous women is unclear. A 2014 report by the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, ordered by the Stephen Harper administration, stated 1,181 Indigenous women were killed or went missing across the country between 1980 and 2012. With government funding, the Native Women's Association of Canada (NWAC) had documented 582 cases of missing and murdered Aboriginal women from the 1960s to 2010, but they believe there are many more. Of the cases analyzed by the RCMP, 67% were murder victims, 20% were missing persons, 4% were suspicious deaths, and 9% were unknown.\n\nIn 2016 Patricia Hajdu, the Canadian minister for the status of women, suggested that the total number of missing and murdered Indigenous women could be closer to 4,000. She was basing her statement on information supplied by NWAC and originally collected by the Walk 4 Justice initiative. She said that historically there had been underreporting by law enforcement of cases of murdered or missing Indigenous women.\n\n\"Gladys Radek, co-founder of Walk 4 Justice, said her group collected the names while speaking to people during a trek across Canada in 2008. They stopped collecting information in 2011.\" Further, \"When CBC News contacted one of the activists who supplied NWAC with the information, she said \"roughly 60 to 70 per cent\" of the 4,000 or so people on her list were Indigenous.\"\n\nCBC in 2016 investigated accounts of unsolved cases of missing and murdered Indigenous women, creating an interactive database that now numbers more than 300 persons. CBC investigated 34 cases in which families disagreed with authorities' determination that no foul play was involved; it found \"suspicious circumstances, unexplained bruises and other factors that suggest further investigation is warranted\".\n\nIn late 2013, the Commissioner of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) initiated a study of reported cases of missing and murdered Indigenous women across all police jurisdictions in Canada. The 2014 report found that there were 1,181 incidents of female homicides and unresolved missing Indigenous females. Of these 1,181 incidents, there were 225 unsolved cases between 1980 and 2012; 80% of all female homicides (Indigenous and non-Indigenous) are solved. RCMP statistics were updated in 2015, showing murder rates and the percentage solved (80%) to be essentially unchanged. The RCMP does not collect figures from the 300 non-RCMP police agencies in Canada.\n\nThe term \"Highway of Tears\" refers to the 700-kilometer stretch of Highway 16 from Prince George to Prince Rupert, British Columbia, which since 1969 has been the site of the murder and disappearance of a number of mainly Indigenous women. Government organizations and Indigenous organizations have different estimates of the number of victims along the highway, with police identifying 18 murders and disappearances, 13 of them teenagers, and other organizations placing the number as closer to 40. A reason for this numerical discrepancy is that for a disappearance or murder to be included in the RCMP’s E-Pana project statistics, the RCMP requires for the crime to have happened within a mile of Highway 16, 97, or 5; their count rejects all cases that take place elsewhere along the route. \n\nMany people hitchhike along this stretch of highway because they do not own cars and there is a lack of public transit. The Highway of Tears murders has led to initiatives by the British Columbia government to dissuade women from hitchhiking, such as billboards along the highway warning women of the potential risks. Numerous documentaries have focused on the victims associated with this highway. The Canadian media often refer to the highway in coverage of missing and murdered Indigenous women, girls, and Two-Spirit people in Canada.\n\nThe RCMP in British Columbia launched Project E-Pana in 2005, in response to the Highway of Tears crisis. It initiated an investigation of 9 murdered women, launching a task force in 2006. In 2007 it added an additional 9 cases, which include cases of both murdered and missing women along Highways 16, 97 and 5. The task force consists of more than 50 investigators, and cases include those from the years 1969 to 2006.\n\nAfter the 2015 Canadian federal election, the Liberal Government upheld their campaign promise and announced the initiation of a national inquiry on December 8, 2015. The Canadian government had pre-inquiry meetings with a variety of people including families, front-line workers, representatives of the provinces and Indigenous organizations from December 2015 through February 2016, in order to determine how to structure the inquiry. The mandate of the inquiry and the projected length of time of the inquiry were published August 3, 2016. The estimated cost is $53.8 million. In addition, the government announced $16.17 million over four years to create family information liaison units in each province and territory.\n\nThe inquiry was established as independent from the Government of Canada, and five commissioners were appointed to oversee the independent inquiry process: Marion Buller (chief commissioner), Michèle Audette, Qajaq Robinson, Marilyn Poitras, and Brian Eyolfson. An interim report was expected from the Inquiry in November 2017. The initial conclusion date for the inquiry was set as December 31, 2018; however, in May 2017 the Chief Commissioner of the inquiry said the inquiry might seek an extension from the federal government.\n\nAfter the first public hearing in April 2017, complaints by observers started to arise about the inquiry's terms of reference, its composition and administration, and a perceived lack of transparency. Evidence was taken from 50 witnesses during the first hearings at Whitehorse, Yukon Territory, over three days in May 2017.\n\nIn July 2017 the Assembly of First Nations asked the Federal Government to reset the inquiry, revisit its mandate, and extend its timeline to allow more data gathering. Throughout 2017 a number of key staffers left the inquiry. Executive director Michèle Moreau announced in June that she would leave her position at the end of July 2017. In July 2017 Marilyn Poitras resigned as a commissioner. She said in her resignation letter to the Prime Minister,\n\nIt is clear to me that I am unable to perform my duties as a commissioner with the process designed in its current structure ... I believe this opportunity to engage community on the place and treatment of Indigenous women is extremely important and necessary. It is time for Canada to face this relationship and repair it.\n\nOn August 8, 2017, Waneek Horn-Miller, the inquiry's director of community relations, stepped down, and on October 8, 2017, CBC News reported that the Inquiry's lead lawyer and research director had also resigned.\n\nIn October 2018 the Inquiry announced the last of its public hearing dates, following which the commissioners will write a final report and submit recommendations to the Canadian government by April 30, 2019.\n\nActivism and proposed legislation has drawn the issue of MMIW to the attention of some lawmakers. Currently, the federal laws surrounding violent crimes create difficulties in dealing with non-Native perpetrators on native lands.\n\nAccording to the Supreme Court ruling in \"Oliphant v. Suquamish Indian Tribe\" (1978) tribal courts do not hold any jurisdictional powers over non-American Indians and Alaska Natives, and therefore cannot prosecute or punish them for their crimes. Additionally, the Indian Civil Rights Act (1968) limits the maximum punishment for any crime to a $5000 fine and up to one year in prison. All violent felonies committed on tribal lands are prosecuted by the federal government. This continues to raise problems as law enforcement departments must compete over jurisdictional powers based on the nature of the crime, lowering the overall effectiveness of law enforcement, and providing enough immunity to non-citizens of the tribes (usually members of the dominant culture) for these crimes to become commonplace.\n\nOn May 5th the US has declared a national day of awareness in order to raise concern for the crisis, and refocus attention on issues affecting Indigenous women with the hopes of improving relations between the federal and tribal governments. \n\nEffective May 7, 2018, this bill orders an inquiry into how to increase rates of reporting for missing Native American women.\n\nIndigenous activists have been organizing protests and vigils relating to missing and murdered Indigenous women, girls, and two-spirit individuals for decades. The Native Women's Association of Canada was one of many organizations that created a database of missing and murdered Indigenous women. The community-based activist groups Families of Sisters in Spirit and No More Silence have also been gathering the names of missing and murdered Indigenous women since 2005. In 2015 the Truth and Reconciliation Commission of Canada's Calls to Action also called for the federal government to establish a public inquiry into the issues of MMIW. Prime Minister Justin Trudeau announced the inquiry in December 2015.\n\nThe first Women's Memorial March was on February 14, 1991, in Downtown Eastside, Vancouver, which had numerous missing or murdered Indigenous women. The march was in response to the murder of a Coast Salish woman. The annual marches were intended to commemorate Indigenous women who have been murdered or have gone missing to build support for a national inquiry and program of response. In 2016 the government announced it would undertake such an inquiry. During the Vancouver march, the committee and public stop at the sites where the women were last seen, or murdered, holding a moment of silence as a sign of respect. The committee has drawn attention to the issue locally, nationally and internationally. The committee is made up of family members, front-line workers, close friends, and loved ones who have suffered the losses of Indigenous women during recent decades.\n\nThis event has expanded and as of 2017, was held annually on Valentine's Day in more than 22 communities across North America. The march aims to break down barriers and raise awareness about racial stereotypes and stigmas that contribute to the high rate of missing and murdered Indigenous women in Canada.\n\nIn 2002 the Native Women's Association of Canada (NWAC), Amnesty International Canada, KAIROS, Elizabeth Fry Society, and the Anglican Church of Canada formed the National Coalition for our Stolen Sisters, an initiative designed to raise awareness about the MMIW crisis in Canada. In 2005 Indigenous women founded Sisters in Spirit, a research, education and policy program run by Indigenous women, with a focus on raising awareness about violence against Indigenous women, girls, and two-spirit persons. Sisters in Spirit collected the details of almost 600 cases of Missing and Murdered Indigenous Women in Canada, including some historical cases that were not accepted by police, and cases where police closed the book on a woman's death despite lingering questions from family members. This was the first database of its kind in Canada in terms of its detail and scope, however the federal government stopped funding the program in 2010. Critics of the cut say it was meant to silence the Native Women's Association of Canada, the group behind the database. However, Sisters in Spirit vigils continue to be held across Canada every year on the 4th of October.\n\nBridget Tolley founded the Sisters in Spirit vigils in 2005 to honour of the lives of Missing and Murdered Indigenous Women, Girls and two-spirit persons. This annual event is organized in partnership with the NWAC. In 2006, 11 vigils were held across the country and in 2014, there were 216 vigils. The annual Fort St. John, British Columbia vigil has been taking place since 2008, honouring missing and murdered Indigenous women and girls in northeast British Columbia. Sisters in Spirit continue to hold an annual, national vigil on Parliament Hill in Ottawa, Ontario, Canada.\n\nIn 2011 Bridget Tolley cofounded Families of Sisters in Spirit (FSIS) in response to the funding cuts to Sisters in Spirit. FSIS is a grassroots group led by Indigenous women dedicated to seeking justice for missing Indigenous women, girls, and two-spirit persons through public awareness and advocacy. FSIS differs from Sisters in Spirit insofar as FSIS is fully autonomous, all-volunteer, and accepts no government funding. Tolley is Algonquin from the Kitigan Zibi Anishinabeg First Nation. Her activism began after her mother, Gladys Tolley, was struck and killed by a Sûreté du Québec police cruiser while walking across a two-lane highway on the Kitigan Zibi-Anishinabeg First Nation on October 5, 2001. A police investigation into her death revealed no wrongdoing and deemed the case an accident. However, Tolley claims police failed to inform her family that her mother's case was closed, and that Montreal police were brought in even though the local Kitigan Zibi police department had jurisdiction over the scene and should have been called to secure it. Bridget Tolley has since campaigned for justice for her mother, demanding her case be reopened and subject to an independent investigation by the Province of Quebec. She remains a committed activist for social justice regarding police violence, education, housing, and child welfare.\n\nThe REDress Project is based in Canada and is a public art commemoration of the Aboriginal women known to be missing or murdered. The installation consists of red dresses, which are placed to hang or flat in public spaces. Canadian Jaime Black (Métis) began the project in 2000. She told CTV News that \"a friend of hers, who is also an aboriginal, explained that red was the only colour spirits could see. 'So (red) is really a calling back of the spirits of these women and allowing them a chance to be among us and have their voices heard through their family members and community. The REDress Project has been displayed at the campuses of the universities of Winnipeg, Saskatchewan, Kamloops, Alberta, Toronto, and Queen's University as well as the Manitoba Legislature, and the Canadian Museum of Human Rights.\n\n\"Walking with Our Sisters\" is a community-based art installation, commemorating murdered or missing women and children from Indigenous communities. The project is community-led, from the creation of the piece to the facilitation of the exhibit at different sites. The hope is to raise awareness on this issue and create a space for dialogue-based community discussions on this issue. It is a solely volunteer initiative.\n\nThe art project is a collection of vamps from moccasins. A vamp is the extra layer of leather for the top lip of the moccasin. The installation has more than 1763 pairs of adult vamps and 108 pairs for children. Each pair is authentic and custom made for each individual woman reported missing. The vamps represent the unfinished lives of the missing or murdered women.\n\nThe project began in 2012, with a call to action issued on Facebook. People were asked to design and create moccasin tops. By July 2013, the project leaders had received 1,600 vamps, more than tripling their initial goal of 600. Men, women, and children of all races responded to the call and became active in the project.\n\nThis installation consists of vamps placed on the floor of a public space. It travels to select galleries and art exhibition halls. Patrons are asked to take off their shoes and walk alongside the vamps in the gallery, to ensure that the people they represent are not forgotten and to show solidarity with the missing or murdered women. Booked until 2019, the installation is scheduled for 25 locations across North America.\n\nBegun by the Native Women's Association of Canada (NWAC) in 2012, the Faceless Dolls Project consists of making dolls to represent missing and murdered women, and those affected by violence. The dolls are designed as \"a process of reconstructing identity\" for women who lose individuality in becoming victims of crime. The first dolls were made to commemorate the 582 MMIW documented by the Association. They are intended as an artistic reminder of the lives and identities of the affected women and girls. NWAC has brought this art project to universities and communities across Canada, where participants join in making dolls as a form of activism and raising awareness of the issue of MMIW.\n\nSince late 2015 Kristen Villebrun, a local activist in Hamilton, Ontario, and about ten other Indigenous women have been constructing inuksuit on the Chedoke Radial Trail. This trail connects to the Chedoke Creek, a watercourse in Hamilton. An inuksuk is a man-made stone structure commonly used for navigation or trail markers. \"Inuksuk\" translates to \"in the likeness of a human\".\n\nThe women began the project in October 2015 when they noticed that shadows cast by previously constructed inuksuit on the trail were lifelike and reminiscent of women. These activists saw an opportunity to use these structures as a way of drawing attention to the issue of the missing women. They have constructed 1,181 inuksuit, working for six hours a day, four days a week. The project has attracted many questions, with hundreds of people stopping to inquire about the inuksuit. The women welcomed the questions, and they announced their intention to continue to build the female inuksuit until the government undertook an official inquiry into missing Indigenous women. In December 2015 Prime Minister Justin Trudeau announced he would initiate such an inquiry.\n\nIn February 2016, Lucy Annanack (Nunavik) and a team of women built and placed another 1,200 inuksuit in Montreal, Quebec.\n\nIn October 2016 journalist Connie Walker and the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation launched a podcast titled \"Who Killed Alberta Williams?\" The eight-part podcast examines the missing and murdered Indigenous women crisis in Canada though the lens of a specific case, the murder of Alberta Williams in 1989 along the Highway of Tears in British Columbia. The series was nominated for a Webby Award.\n\n\"Big Green Sky\" is a social justice play commissioned and produced by Windsor Feminist Theatre, which debuted in May 2016 in Windsor Ontario. It was prompted by the outrage over the acquittal of Bradley Barton in the trial of Cindy Gladue's murder. This play is a direct result of reaching out to Muriel Stanley Venne, Chair of the Aboriginal Commission on Human Rights and Justice, and President of the Institute for the Advancement of Aboriginal Women. Venne's report was submitted to United Nations rapporteur James Anaya. Venne created her report because she wanted to 'influence decision makers who have become very complacent and unconcerned about the lives of Indigenous women in our country.\"\n\nThe playwright has created his heroine to be a Nigerian woman who moves to Northern Canada to see the Northern Lights and immerses herself in aboriginal culture. In this sense, members of the audience who are non-aboriginal are invited to take part in the journey of this \"outsider\" as she learns and uncovers the mysteries of murdered and missing aboriginal women. The title Big Green Sky comes from the display of the aurora borealis or Northern Lights. Aboriginal interpretations include that the Northern Lights represent the spirits of the departed who are communicating with their loved ones. The play will be gifted by WFT to any organization or individual wishing to bring awareness to this issue, and distributed without royalty fees, providing that all revenues/fundraising efforts be donated to local First Nations, Inuit or Métis women's initiatives.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11201449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11201449", "title": "National League of POW/MIA Families", "text": "National League of POW/MIA Families\n\nThe National League of Families of American Prisoners and Missing in Southeast Asia is an American 501(c)(3) non-profit organization that is concerned with the Vietnam War POW/MIA issue. According to the group's web site, its sole purpose is \"to obtain the release of all prisoners, the fullest possible accounting for the missing and repatriation of all recoverable remains of those who died serving our nation during the Vietnam War in Southeast Asia.\" The League's most prominent symbol is its famous POW/MIA flag.\n\nThe League's origins date to groups created by Sybil Stockdale and a group of POW/MIA wives in Coronado, California, as well as POW/MIA wives in the Hampton, Virginia, area led by Evelyn Grubb and Mary Crowe, in 1967. Sybil Stockdale's husband, Navy Commander James Stockdale, was shot down in 1965 and she was determined to make the American people aware of the mistreatment of U.S. POWs. Grubb and Crowe were frustrated with the lack of information from federal officials. It was these groups that finally convinced the U.S. government to change their official stance on the POW/MIA issue in 1969. Eventually, the League was incorporated in Washington, D.C., on May 28, 1970.\n\nAnother notable member of the league during the war was Joe McCain, brother of imprisoned U.S. Navy pilot and future U.S. Senator and presidential candidate John McCain.\n\nThe league gained increased international attention in 1972 when \"Life Magazine\" ran a feature article on the organization. The article started with a full page photograph of Major Wilmer Newlin Grubb of the United States Air Force, the husband of National League of Families President Evelyn Grubb, from after he had been shot down in 1966 and taken prisoner by the North Vietnamese Army. Evelyn Grubb by then was also serving as the League's representative to the White House, the United Nations and the Paris Peace Talks, pressing for better accountability, treatment and the speedy return of American MIA and POW soldiers, pilots, airmen, and sailors in the Vietnam War, as well as better policies related to their families. Grubb did not find out until after the war was over that her husband had died shortly after being shot down.\n\nThen League President and POW wife Evelyn Grubb oversaw the development of the now-famous National League of Families' POW/MIA flag in the early 1970s. The flag's original design by military wife Haydn Anthony, was passed on to an ad agency and slightly modified by employee Newt Heisley, to represent America's missing men. The original design showed a POW crouched in a cage rather than the head of a POW now shown. Evelyn Grubb was then also a driving force in gaining the flags adoption by the military, the U.S. Postal Service and other federal service agencies. Eventually the flag became widely popular and adoption of its use began to spread on its own, as the flag became a national symbol of Vietnam war remembrance. The flag, with the now widely recognized \"You Are Not Forgotten, POW/MIA\" logo is still flown in front of all U.S. post offices, all major U.S. military installations, and most fire stations, police stations, many state level agencies and also most veterans organizations chapters across the United States today, and is almost always present at most local and national veterans events in the United States. The flag is consequently still visible to millions of Americans on a daily basis.\n\nIn the 1980s a different group, the National Alliance Of Families For the Return of America's Missing Servicemen, was formed as a split-off by National League of Families members over a disagreement with then League President Ann Mills Griffith over tactics the organization should employ in pursuing its goals, and disagreements about the status of missing servicemen by the 1980s. Compared to the league, the National Alliance takes a more activist, radical stance, especially with regards towards the Vietnam War POW/MIA issue and belief in the existence of \"live prisoners\" in Southeast Asia.\n\nThe League's national office, based in Arlington, Virginia, is still run by one full-time employee and various volunteers. To date, more than sixteen hundred U.S. servicemen are still listed as Missing in Action in the Vietnam War and efforts continue by certain departments of the U.S. government and the National League of Families to ascertain the fate of these missing service members. Debate continues as to whether or not the efforts by the U.S. government, the Vietnamese government in Hanoi and other governments historically involved in the war have been, or continue to be, sufficient regarding the effort to find these missing soldiers, pilots, airmen and sailors. The National League of Families continues to work at keeping the pressure on both Washington and Hanoi to bring complete resolution to this issue on behalf of each family with a loved one still missing in Vietnam.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "240718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=240718", "title": "Obstruction of justice", "text": "Obstruction of justice\n\nObstruction of justice, in United States jurisdictions, is a crime of obstructing prosecutors or other (usually government) officials. Common law jurisdictions other than the United States tend to use the wider offense of perverting the course of justice. \n\nObstruction also applies to overt coercion of court or government officials via the means of threats or actual physical harm, and also applying to deliberate sedition against a court official to undermine the appearance of legitimate authority.\n\nGenerally, obstruction charges are laid when it is discovered that a person questioned in an investigation, other than a suspect, has lied to the investigating officers. However, in most common law jurisdictions, the right to remain silent can be used to allow any person questioned by police merely to deny answering questions posed by an investigator without giving any reason for doing so. (In such a case, the investigators may subpoena the witness to give testimony under oath in court, though the witness may then exercise their rights, for example in the Fifth Amendment, if they believe their answer may serve to incriminate themselves.) If the person willfully and knowingly tried to protect a suspect (such as by providing a false alibi) or to hide from investigation of their own activities (such as to hide their involvement in another crime), this may leave them liable to prosecution. Obstruction charges can also be laid if a person alters, destroys, or conceals physical evidence. Obstruction charges may also be laid in unique situations such as refusal to aid a police officer, escape through voluntary action of an officer and refusing to assist prison officers in arresting escaped convicts.\n\nObstruction can include crimes committed by judges, prosecutors, attorneys general, and elected officials in general. It is misfeasance, malfeasance or nonfeasance in the conduct of the office. Most commonly it is prosecuted as a crime for perjury by a non governmental official primarily because of prosecutorial discretion.\n\n\n\"Anticipatory obstruction of justice\" has recently appeared on the horizon in cases such as \"US v. Wolff\". However, the operative section, 1519, passed in 2002, has thus far languished in quasi-obscurity. Titled “Destruction, Alteration or Falsification of Records in Federal Investigations and Bankruptcy,” the provision was passed under Section 802 of the Sarbanes–Oxley Act of 2002.\n\nThe text of the statute is relatively straightforward:\n\nWhoever knowingly alters, destroys, mutilates, conceals, covers up, falsified, or makes a false entry in any record, document, or tangible object with the intent to impede, obstruct, or influence the investigation or proper administration of any matter within the jurisdiction of any department or agency of the United States or any case filed under Title 11, or in relation to or contemplation of any such matter or case, shall be fined under this title, imprisoned not more than 20 years, or both.\n\nAside from Section 1519’s 20-year maximum prison sentence (no small benefit to the government in big-dollar fraud loss cases such as Wolff), its primary appeal is that it uniquely removes certain key proof burdens from prosecutors’ collective shoulders.\n\nProsecutors charging violations of Section 1519 must still establish either of the following:\n\nNot on the list, however, is the requirement that prosecutors demonstrate to the finder of fact which specific “matter or case” the accused attempted to obstruct. That is a significant benefit to the government.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "244239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=244239", "title": "Oregon Country Fair", "text": "Oregon Country Fair\n\nThe Oregon Country Fair (OCF) is a nonprofit organization, and an annual three-day art and music fair held outside the city limits of Veneta, Oregon, United States. Located in the Willamette Valley, the site is about west of Eugene along the Long Tom River near the unincorporated community of Elmira. Annual attendance is approximately 45,000, and the fair has around 960 craft and food booths each year. The event is known as an outgrowth of the counter-culture movement, and for using environmentally-friendly practices during the fair.\n\nThe Oregon Country Fair begins on the Friday of the second weekend in July every year (i.e. as early as July 7 and as late as July 13). The fair is a non-profit organization and as such has a board of directors. Additionally, the management structure of the Oregon Country Fair is typically composed of a General Manager, an Operations Manager, and a team of volunteer Back Up Managers, otherwise known as BUMS, who serve as representation for the fair's paid management staff for the duration of the event. Currently the fair does not have an official General Manager. In the interim, management responsibilities fall to the Operations Manager and the Site Manager who work as a co-management team. \n\nThe first fair was held in Eugene, over the weekend of November 1–2, 1969. It was promoted with the tagline, \"come in costume\".\nThe fair began as a craft fair to raise funds for an alternative school, the Children's Community School.\nThe event moved to its current location in Veneta, about 13 miles west of Eugene, for the fall fair in October, 1970, after having had a May Fair the same year on Crow Road, about halfway between Eugene and Veneta.\n\nIn August 1972 and August 1982, OCF hosted concerts headlined by the Grateful Dead. Known as \"Field Trips\", that first concert was held as a benefit for the Springfield Creamery, which is owned by members of Ken Kesey's family.\n\nUntil 1977, the fair was known as the \"Oregon Renaissance Faire\".\n\nDuring open hours (11 am to 7 pm) there are 22 stages featuring a wide variety of musical, comedic, theatrical, juggling, daredevil, and vaudeville performances.\n\nThe stages are: Main Stage, Daredevil Palace, Shady Grove Stage, Kesey Stage, Caravan Stage, W.C. Fields Stage, Spirit Tower, Rabbit Hole, Front Porch, Blue Moon Stage, Stage Left, Chez Ray's Next Stage, Monkey Palace, Might Tiny Puppet Stage, Hoarse Chorale, Morningwood Odditorium, Community Village, and Youth Stage. The Ritz, which has showering facilities and two saunas, also includes a stage.\n\nMusical acts incorporate many styles, including: folk, rock, jazz, blues, bluegrass, Latin, reggae, slam poetry and spoken word. There are also numerous musicians engaged in busking along the pathways as well as parades, and walking performers throughout the entire fair site, including a marching band, giant puppets, and stilt walkers.\n\nThere is also a drum circle at the Drum Tower which is open to all willing participants who bring their musical instruments.\n\nTickets and passes are required to attend the Oregon Country Fair. All tickets sold to the public are sold in advance at TicketsWest outlets and other retail centers throughout the Northwest. All tickets must be purchased off-site; no tickets are sold at the fair site and there is no on-site will-call. Discount tickets are available for people who qualify for disability or senior discounts. There is no fee for children who are under the age of ten, and come with a paying adult. Public transportation, in the form of bus shuttle, is added in order to park and ride between Eugene and the OCF grounds non-stop throughout the days of the fair.\n\nThe fair is a family event with face painting, puppet shows, and music for children. Toplessness is permitted while full nudity is not allowed during public hours in public areas. No alcohol is allowed and smoking is limited to designated areas. The fair has its own water and communications systems, recycling service, emergency medical team, traffic control, and security team. Since 1997 there has been a strong effort to make it a drug-free event.\n\nThe fair is a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization. It is governed by an elected ten-member Board of Directors (with 2 elected alternates). There are seven staff positions within the organization. Staff positions traditionally include a General Manager, an Operations Manager, an Assistant Manager, A Site and Facilities Manager, a Residential Caretaker, a Groundskeeper, and an Administrative Assistant. Currently the fair does not have a General Manager. Until a full-time General Manager is hired by the Board of Directors, the Site and Facilities Manager and Operations Manager share management responsibilities and authority within the organization. \nAlter-abled access is available at the Oregon Country Fair, including wheelchairs (there is a battery re-charging station for electric wheelchairs), helpers, sign language interpreters, folding chairs, rest areas, maps, and other information. To obtain these services, or more information about them, event participants can go to the following locations on the event site: the \"Alter-Abled Access Advocates(4A)Center\" (located near Admissions as well as at the Bus Stop), \"Community Village\", \"Solutions\", and all \"Information booths\".\n\nFrom June 1 through August 31 there are no dogs (except service dogs) allowed on the event site.\n\nPublications\n\nThe Oregon Country Fair publishes a newsletter, the Fair Family News, eleven times a year. As well as an event paper, the Peach Pit, once a year for the three-day event.\n\nThe Oregon Country Fair has a large volunteer network. This volunteer network is the base for all operational needs of the event. While some working volunteers receive food vouchers which can be used to buy meals from vendors during the event, many volunteers do not. Volunteer crews are separated into \"Pre-fair Crews\" and \"During Fair Crews.\" Pre-fair crews work from the site's opening in early June until the event officially opens to the public the second weekend in July. Pre-fair crews are responsible for setting up the site's physical infrastructure and preparing the site both for the festival and for the increase in people on the land with the aim of reducing impact and preserving natural flora and fauna. Preservation and restoration efforts are led by the Site and Facilities Manager year round, and are largely carried out by the Residential Caretaker with the help of a special crew known as Site Crew who report directly to the Caretaker and Site and Facilities Manager. \n\nAll volunteers agree to the Oregon Country Fair Guidelines and Code of Conduct. The Code of Conduct of The Oregon Country Fair is:\n\nThe Willamette Valley has been continuously occupied by humans, to some extent, for at least the last 9,000-10,000 years (this timeline is based on the archaeological evidence gathered from 34 archaeological sites in the Upper Willamette Valley).\nThe Oregon Country Fair property has archaeological sites protected by state law on it. It is thought to have previously been a gathering place for the Kalapuya tribe of Native Americans. All ground disturbing activities on the fair property must be approved by the archaeology and construction crews.\n\nThe Kalapuya lived in permanent winter homes and migrated throughout the Willamette Valley of Oregon during the summers. Subsistence was based on fishing, hunting, and gathering wild plant foods.\n\nBased on the translation of Kalapuya texts, strong historical aspects of the Kalapuya culture include: the dream, the dream spirit-power, death, wealth, prestige, sexual division of labor (men hunt, women gather), sex, acculturation, and language. The dream spirit-power was observed to be the strongest. The dream power was constantly referred to in matters of courage and bravery, of sickness and resisting disease, gambling, hunting, wealth, casting spells, power over natural phenomena and becoming a shaman.\n\nMuch of the fair site is a wetland and the Long Tom River floods much of the fair property each winter.\n\nSome of the Oregon Country Fair's areas are organized to be information and workshop resources.\nThe \"Kids Loop\" is a children's play area, \"Yes You Canopy\" is a pavilion dedicated to the teaching of juggling, \"Energy Park\" is an area with displays and demonstrations on alternative energy, alternative transportation, organic agriculture and recycling, and \"Community Village\" has booths from non-profit organizations dedicated to education, information access, plants and gardening, including a display by the Oregon State University/Lane County Extension Master Gardeners, and other forms of progressive social change.\n\n\"Archaeology Park\" (\"Ark Park\") is the home of the fair's archaeology crew, and includes replica cedar houses like those used by Pacific Northwest Native American tribes, displays of artifacts and photos of archaeological digs from the fair site, and hands-on demonstrations of flintknapping, firemaking, basket weaving and other Native American skills.\n\nThe OCF organization maintains close ties with the Eugene-area community and supports many other nonprofit organizations through its philanthropic programs.\n\nFairgoers, fair working volunteers, and the OCF organization alike contribute to non-profit groups through \"The Jill Heiman Vision Fund\". This fund grants funds to tax-exempt organizations in Lane County. Donations are provided to projects and programs related to improving the environment and fostering sustainability.\n\nThe OCF Board has created \"The Bill Wooten Endowment Fund\" to assist arts, environmental, and social justice projects. The Board of Directors also offers donations to various groups and activities that share its values of living artfully and authentically on the earth.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2640053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2640053", "title": "Otto Titzling", "text": "Otto Titzling\n\nOtto Titzling is a fictional character who is apocryphally described as the inventor of the brassiere in the 1971 book \"Bust-Up: The Uplifting Tale of Otto Titzling\", published by Macdonald in London, and by Prentice-Hall in the USA.\n\nThe name, a pun on \"a two-tit sling,\" was invented by humorist Wallace Reyburn in the 1970s. Since then, the name has appeared in the game \"Trivial Pursuit\" (the makers of the game fell for the hoax, and listed \"Otto Titzling\" as the \"correct answer\" to the question of who invented the brassiere), the 1988 movie \"Beaches\" (featuring a song named \"Otto Titsling\" sung by Bette Midler), the comic strip Luann by Greg Evans, and has appeared in practice questions sent out to prospective teams by the BBC 2 show \"University Challenge\".\n\nPeter Cook references Otto Titsling as the inventor of the brassiere, during a Pete and Dud skit with Dudley Moore, in their West End stage show, Behind the Fridge. The show was first broadcast on BBC2 in 1974, and is the final public performance of Cook and Moore, as a double act. \n\nA similar situation exists with Thomas Crapper, who was a real plumber but did not invent the flushing lavatory. Reyburn popularised this myth in \"Flushed With Pride: The Story of Thomas Crapper\".\n\n"}
{"id": "19749974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19749974", "title": "Panorama (Gibraltar)", "text": "Panorama (Gibraltar)\n\nPanorama is a daily newspaper published in Gibraltar. It was founded in December 1975 by journalist Joe Garcia who has edited it since then. It was first published as a weekly newspaper and became a daily in 2002. It was the first Gibraltar newspaper to establish an online edition, in 1997. \nFrom its inception, the paper has been a strong defender of the Freedom of the Press, and believes in publishing the views of all sectors of Gibraltar society.\nIts editor Joe Garcia was the first Gibraltar journalist to receive an award in The Queen's Honours List for his services to journalism in Gibraltar and overseas.\nHe has written extensively about Gibraltar in publications abroad, such as the London Financial Times (for 25 years) and Spain's leading daily El Pais (for 10 years).\n\n"}
{"id": "13780863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13780863", "title": "Quyllurit'i", "text": "Quyllurit'i\n\nQuyllurit'i (Quechua \"quyllu rit'i,\" \"quyllu\" bright white, \"rit'i\" snow, \"bright white snow,\") is a religious festival held annually at the Sinakara Valley in the southern highlands Cusco Region of Peru. Local indigenous people of the Andes know this festival as a native celebration of the stars. In particular they celebrate the reappearance of the Pleiades constellation, known in Quechua as \"Qullqa,\" or \"storehouse,\" and associated with the upcoming harvest and New Year. The Pleiades disappears from view in April and reappears in June. The new year is marked by indigenous people of the Southern Hemisphere on the Winter Solstice in June, and it is also a Catholic festival. The people have celebrated this period of time for hundreds if not thousands of years. The pilgrimage and associated festival was inscribed in 2011 on the UNESCO Intangible Cultural Heritage Lists.\n\nAccording to the Catholic Church, the festival is in honor of the Lord of Quyllurit'i (, ) and it originated in the late 18th century. The young native herder Mariano Mayta befriended a mestizo boy named Manuel on the mountain Qullqipunku. Thanks to Manuel, Mariano's herd prospered, so his father sent him to Cusco to buy a new shirt for Manuel. Mariano could not find anything similar, because that kind of cloth was sold only to the archbishop. Learning of this, the bishop of Cusco sent a party to investigate. When they tried to capture Manuel, he was transformed into a bush with an image of Christ crucified hanging from it. Thinking the archbishop's party had harmed his friend, Mariano died on the spot. He was buried under a rock, which became a place of pilgrimage known as the Lord of \"Quyllurit'i,\" or \"Lord of Star (Brilliant) Snow.\" An image of Christ was painted on this boulder. \n\nThe Quyllurit'i festival attracts thousands of indigenous peasants from the surrounding regions, made up of \"Paucartambo\" groups (Quechua speakers) from the agricultural regions to the northwest of the shrine, and \"Quispicanchis\" (Aymara speakers) from the pastoral (herders) regions to the southeast. Both moieties make an annual pilgrimage to the feast, bringing large troupes of dancers and musicians. There are four groups of participants with particular roles: \"ch'unchu,\" \"qulla,\" \"ukuku,\" and \"machula.\" Attendees increasingly have included middle-class Peruvians and foreign tourists. \n\nThe festival takes place in late May or early June, to coincide with the full moon. It falls one week before the Christian feast of Corpus Christi. Events include several processions of holy icons and dances in and around the shrine of the Lord of Quyllurit'i. The culminating event for the indigenous non-Christian population takes place after the reappearance of \"Qullqa\" in the night sky; it is the rising of the sun after the full moon. Tens of thousands of people kneel to greet the first rays of light as the sun rises above the horizon. The main event for the Church is carried out by \"ukukus,\" who climb glaciers over Qullqipunku and bring back crosses and blocks of ice to place along the road to the shrine. These are believed to be medicinal with healing qualities.\n\nThere are several accounts of the origins of the Quyllurit'i festival. What follows are two versions: one relates the pre-Columbian origins, and the other the Catholic Church's version as compiled by the priest of the town of Ccatca between 1928 and 1946.\n\nThe Inca followed both solar and lunar cycles throughout the year. The cycle of the moon was of primary importance for the timing of both agricultural activities and associated festivals. There are many celebration of seasonal events related to animal husbandry, sowing seeds, and harvesting of crops. Important festivals such as Quyllurit'i, perhaps the most important festival given its significance and meaning, are still celebrated on the full moon.\n\nThe Quyllurit'i festival takes place at the end of a period of a few months when the Pleiades constellation, or Seven Sisters, a 7-star cluster in the Taurus constellation, disappears and reappears in the skies of the Southern Hemisphere. Its time of disappearance was marked in Inca culture by a festival for \"Pariacaca,\" the god of water and torrential rains. It occurs near the date of \"qarwa mita\" (\"qarwa\" meaning when the corn leaves are yellow).\n\nThe return of the constellation about 40 days later, called \"unquy mita\" in Quechua, was long associated in the Southern Hemisphere with the time of the coming harvest and therefore a time of abundance for the people. Incan astronomers had named the Pleiades constellation as \"Qullqa,\" or \"storehouse,\" in their native language of Quechua.\n\nMetaphorically, the constellation's disappearance from the night sky and reemergence approximately two months afterward is a signal that the human planes of existence have times of disorder and chaos, but also return to order. \n\nIn the city of Cuzco in the late 17th century, the celebration of Corpus Cristi reached a height under Bishop Manuel de Mollinedo y Angulo (1673–99), with processions through the city including Inca nobles in ceremonial regalia. The bishop also commissioned portraits of the nobles in their ceremonial clothes. Scholars such as Carolyn Dean have studies this evidence for its suggestions about related church rituals. \n\nDean believes that such early churchmen thought that such Catholic rituals could displace indigenous ones. She examines the feast of Corpus Cristi and its relationship to the indigenous harvest festival at winter solstice, celebrated in early June in the Southern Hemisphere. According to the church, events of the late 18th century that included a sighting of Christ on the mountain Qullqipunku became part of myth, and the pilgrimage festival of the Lord of Quyllurit'i is still celebrated in the 21st century. \n\nIt is told that an Indian boy named Mariano Mayta used to watch over his father's herd of alpaca on the slopes of the mountain. He wandered into the snowfields of the glacier, where he encountered a mestizo boy named Manuel. They became good friends, and Manuel provided Mariano with food. When the boy did not return home for meals, Mariano's father went looking for his son. He was surprised to find his herd had increased. As a reward, he sent Mariano to Cusco to get new clothes. Mariano asked to buy some also for Manuel, who wore the same outfit everyday. His father agreed, so Mariano asked Manuel for a sample in order to buy the same kind of cloth in Cusco.\n\nMariano was told that this refined cloth was restricted for use only by the bishop of the city. Mariano went to see the prelate, who was surprised by the request. He ordered an inquiry of Manuel, directed by the priest of Oncogate (\"Quispicanchi\"), a village close to the mountain. On June 12, 1783, the commission ascended Qullqipunku with Mariano; they found Manuel dressed in white and shining with a bright light. Blinded, they retreated, returning with a larger party. On their second try they reached the boy. But when they touched him, he was transformed into a tayanka bush (\"Baccharis odorata\") with the crucified Christ hanging from it. Thinking the party had harmed his friend, Mariano fell dead on the spot. He was buried under the rock where Manuel had last appeared.\n\nThe tayanka tree was sent to Spain, as requested by king Charles III. As it was never returned, the Indian population of Ocongate protested. The local priest ordered a replica, which became known as Lord of Tayankani (). The burial site of Mariano attracted a great number of Indian devotees, who lit candles before the rock. Religious authorities ordered the painting of an image of Christ crucified on the rock. This image became known as Lord of Quyllurit'i (). In Quechua, \"quyllur\" means star and \"Rit'i\" means snow; thus, the term means Lord of Star Snow.\n\nThe Quyllurit'i festival attracts more than 10,000 pilgrims annually, most of them indigenous peoples from rural communities in nearby regions. They are from two moieties: Quechua-speaking \"Paucartambo,\" people from agricultural communities located to the northwest of the shrine in the provinces of Cusco, Calca, Paucartambo and Urubamba; and Aymara-speaking \"Quispicanchis,\" which encompasses those living to the southeast in the provinces of Acomayo, Canas, Canchis and Quispicanchi, This geographic division also reflects social and economic distinctions, as the Quechuas of Paucartambo cultivate agricultural crops, whereas Quispicanchis is populated by the Aymara, whose lives are based on animal husbandry, especially herds of alpaca and llama. \n\nPeasants from both moieties undertake an annual pilgrimage to the Quyllurit'i festival, with representatives of each community carrying a small image of Christ to the sanctuary. Together, these delegations include a large troupe of dancers and musicians dressed in four main styles:\n\nQuyllur Rit'i also attracts visitors from outside the Paucartambo and Quispicanchis moieties. Since the 1970s, an increasing number of middle-class mainstream Peruvians undertake the pilgrimage, some of them at a different date than more traditional pilgrims. There has also been a rapid growth in the number of North American and European tourists drawn to the indigenous festival, prompting fears that it is becoming too commercialized. The pilgrimage and associated festival were inscribed in 2011 on the UNESCO Intangible Cultural Heritage Lists.\n\nThe festival is attended by thousands of indigenous people, some of whom come from as far away as Bolivia. The Christian celebration is organized by the Brotherhood of the Lord of Quyllurit'i (), a lay organization that also keeps order during the festival. Preparations start on the feast of the Ascension, when the Lord of Quyllurit'i is carried in procession from its chapel at Mawallani 8 kilometers to its sanctuary at Sinaqara. \n\nOn the first Wednesday after Pentecost, a second procession carries a statue of Our Lady of Fatima from the Sinaqqara sanctuary to an uphill grotto to prepare for the festival. Most pilgrims arrive by Trinity Sunday, when the Blessed Sacrament is taken in procession through and around the sanctuary. \n\nThe following day, the Lord of Qoyllur Rit'i is taken in procession to the grotto of the Virgin and back. Pilgrims refer to this as the greeting between the Lord and Mary, referring to the double traditional Inca feasts of \"Pariacaca\" and \"Oncoy mita.\" (See section above.) On the night of this second day, dance troupes take turns to perform in the shrine. \n\nAt dawn on the third day, \"ukukus\" grouped by moieties climb the glaciers on Qullqipunku to retrieve crosses set on top. Some ukukus traditionally spent the night on the glacier to combat spirits. They also cut and bring back blocks of the ice, which is believed to have sacred medicinal qualities. The ukukus are considered to be the only ones capable of dealing with \"condenados,\" the cursed souls said to inhabit the snowfields. According to oral traditions, \"ukukus\" from different moieties used to engage in ritual battles on the glaciers, but this practice was banned by the Catholic Church. After a mass celebrated later this day, most pilgrims leave the sanctuary. One group carries the Lord of Quyllurit'i in procession to Tayankani before taking it back to Mawallani.\n\nThe festival precedes the official feast of Corpus Cristi, held the Thursday following Trinity Sunday, but it is closely associated with it.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26260041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26260041", "title": "Rey de Reyes (2008)", "text": "Rey de Reyes (2008)\n\nThe Rey de Reyes 2008 (Spanish for \"King of Kings\") was the 12th annual Rey de Reyes professional wrestling tournament and show, produced by the Mexican wrestling promotion Asistencia Asesoría y Administración (AAA). The event took place on March 18, 2007 in the Plaza de Toros Lorenzo Garza arena in Monterrey, Nuevo León, Mexico. The main focus of the 2008 Rey de Reyes show was the twelfth annual Rey de Reyes tournament and a match between the top \"technico\" Cibernético and the top \"rudo\" El Mesias for the AAA Mega Championship which El Mesias held going into the event. The undercard included four qualifying matches for the Rey de Reyes leading to the traditional four man elimination match that led to the crowning of that year's Rey de Reyes. The undercard also saw the continuing feud between Konnan’s \"La Legión Extranjera\" (Foreign Legion) and their altercations with wrestlers defending AAA. For this event La Legión Extranjera brought in two American wrestlers, Sabu and Scott Steiner, to strengthen their side. The other undercard storyline was that of \"Los Psycho Circus\" (a trio of Rudo wrestlers dressed up as clowns) competing with The Black Family.\n\nStarting in 1997 and every year since then the Mexican \"Lucha Libre\", or professional wrestling, company Asistencia Asesoría y Administración (AAA, or Triple A; Spanish for \"Assistance, Consulting, and Administration\") has held a Rey de Reyes (Spanish for \"King of Kings') show in the spring. The 1997 version was held in February, while all subsequent Rey de Reyes shows were held in March. As part of their annual Rey de Reyes event AAA holds the eponymious Rey de Reyes tournament to determine that specific year's \"Rey\". Most years the show hosts both the qualifying round and the final match, but on occasion the qualifying matches have been held prior to the event as part of AAA's weekly television shows. The traditional format consists of four preliminary rounds, each a Four-man elimination match with each of the four winners face off in the tournament finals, again under elimination rules. There have been years where AAA has employed a different format to determine a winner. The winner of the Rey de Reyes tournament is given a large ornamental sword to symbolize their victory, but is normally not guaranteed any other rewards for winning the tournament, although some years becoming the Rey de Reyes has earned the winner a match for the AAA Mega Championship. From 1999 through 2009 AAA also held an annual \"Reina de Reinas\" (\"Queen of Queens\") tournament, but later turned that into an actual championship that could be defended at any point during the year, abandoning the annual tournament concept. The 2008 show was the 12th Rey de Reyes show in the series.\n\nThe Rey de Reyes show featured ten professional wrestling matches with different wrestlers involved in pre-existing, scripted feuds, plots, and storylines. Wrestlers were portrayed as either heels (referred to as \"rudos\" in Mexico, those that portray the \"bad guys\") or faces (\"técnicos\" in Mexico, the \"good guy\" characters) as they followed a series of tension-building events, which culminated in a wrestling match or series of matches.\n\nDuring the event Eddie Guerrero was inducted into the AAA Hall of Fame, honoring Guerrero for the contributions he had made to AAA during the early part of his career.\n"}
{"id": "36416114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36416114", "title": "Riot Fest", "text": "Riot Fest\n\nRiot Fest (also known as Riot Fest & Carnival) is a multi-day music festival.\nRiot Fest specializes in rock, punk, alternative rock, and hip hop. Riot Fest is known for booking reunions, guest performances, and full album performances. First started as a multi-venue festival in Chicago in 2005, Riot Fest has since expanded to Denver and Toronto.\n\nThe majority of bands that play Riot Fest fall somewhere on the punk spectrum with punk rock, new wave and hardcore punk being the most heavily represented genres. Emo, alternative rock, pop punk, ska and metalcore have also had a strong presence at Riot Fest. The occasionally novelty hip hop, psychobilly, thrash metal, post-hardcore and indie pop bands have also appeared at Riot Fest.\n\nLocal Chicago bands that have played Riot Fest include Naked Raygun, The Lawrence Arms, Rise Against, Alkaline Trio, Fall Out Boy, Screeching Weasel, Flatfoot 56, The Tossers and Slapstick .\n\nRiot Fest was established in Chicago in 2005, by Sean McKeough, who also co-produced Chicago's Motoblot annual motorcycle rally. Riot Fest spent seven years as a multi-venue festival, using the Metro, Subterranean, Double Door, Cobra Lounge and the Congress Theater to present bands over a three-day weekend, such as Social Distortion, Danzig, Cock Sparrer, Weezer, Alkaline Trio, The Mighty Mighty Bosstones, Bad Brains, The Dead Milkmen, Fun., The Lawrence Arms, Bad Religion, The Murder City Devils, Butthole Surfers, The Suicide Machines, and more.\n\nPunk, rock, indie rock, alternative, psychobilly, metal, skate punk and ska are represented at Riot Fest along with reunion sets from Naked Raygun, Screeching Weasel, WAX, Blue Meanies, Articles of Faith, Plow United, The Jesus and Mary Chain, Chiodos, Misfits, Jawbreaker and The Replacements.\n\nIn 2012, Riot Fest moved from various venues around the city to an outdoors venue at Chicago’s Humboldt Park and was marketed as Riot Fest & Carnival, with rides, games, wrestling, and food vendors. 2012 also saw the festival expand through North America with events staged in Brooklyn (September 8), Toronto (September 9), and Dallas (September 22). The festival consisted of two days of music at Humboldt park on Saturday, September 15 and Sunday, September 16 and a Friday night kickoff at the Congress Theater. The lineup for Riot Fest in 2012 included:\n\nFriday, September 14:\nThe Offspring, Neon Trees, Pegboy, Dead Sara\n\nSaturday, September 15:\nRise Against, Descendents, Dropkick Murphys, Coheed and Cambria, Slapstick, The Gaslight Anthem, Minus the Bear, Andrew W.K., Hot Water Music, August Burns Red, Gwar, Frank Turner, The Adicts, Cursive, Nobunny, Of Mice & Men, Deals Gone Bad, A Wilhelm Scream, Teenage Bottlerocket, Larry and His Flask, Off With Their Heads, The Story So Far, Fireworks, Droids Attack, Environmental Encroachment\n\nSunday, September 16\nIggy And The Stooges, Gogol Bordello, Alkaline Trio, A Day to Remember, Elvis Costello & The Imposters, The Jesus and Mary Chain, NOFX, Awolnation, Built To Spill, Chiodos, The Promise Ring, Less Than Jake, Fishbone, The Reverend Horton Heat, Imagine Dragons, The Henry Clay People, Blackbox, Screaming Females, White Mystery, Sister Crayon, Japanther, The Infected, Battle Royal Winner, Environmental Encroachment\n\nRiot Fest & Carnival returned to Humboldt Park in Chicago in 2013 and included satellite festivals in Toronto (August 24–25) and Denver (September 21–22). The 2013 festival was noted for being the first performance by reunited punk legends The Replacements and notably the first performance by the band in Chicago since their very public breakup onstage at the Taste of Chicago in 1991. The 2013 Chicago lineup included:\n\nFriday, September 13:\nFall Out Boy, Sublime with Rome, Danzig with Doyle, Joan Jett & the Blackhearts, Bad Religion, Atmosphere, Yellowcard, Screeching Weasel, Andrew W.K., Gwar, Hatebreed, Smoking Popes, Dessa, Saul Williams, The Flatliners, Masked Intruder, Flatfoot 56, Environmental Encroachment\n\nSaturday, September 14:\nBlink-182, Violent Femmes, Rancid, Blondie, Public Enemy, FLAG, Guided by Voices, Taking Back Sunday, Dinosaur Jr., X, DeVotchKa, Pennywise, Best Coast, The Lawrence Arms, Glassjaw, The Devil Wears Prada, The Selecter, T.S.O.L., Stars, The Dear Hunter, Surfer Blood, The Interrupters, Empires, New Beat Fund, Radkey, Mephiskapheles, Kitten, Environmental Encroachment\n\nSunday, September 15:\nThe Replacements, Pixies, AFI, Brand New, All Time Low, Pierce the Veil, Rocket from the Crypt, The Dismemberment Plan, The Broadways, Against Me!, Bob Mould, The Lillingtons, Suicidal Tendencies, Quicksand, Bad Books, Mission of Burma, Saves the Day, Bayside, Peter Hook and The Light, Reggie and the Full Effect, The Wonder Years, Maps & Atlases, Chuck Ragan, Memphis May Fire, Peelander-Z, Touché Amoré, Off with Their Heads, Deal's Gone Bad, Twin Peaks, White Mystery, Direct Hit!, Pet Symmetry, Hostage Calm, Environmental Encroachment\n\nIn September 2014 Riot Festival & Carnival returned to Humboldt Park for the last time. Roberto Maldonado, who had been a supporter of Riot Fest in the past, stated he would not have the fest back for 2015. This was due to damages to the park after heavy raining during the festival. The repairs cost $150,000. Riot Fest 2014 included the inaugural \"Riot Fest Speaks\" panel, moderated by Henry Rollins and featuring Pussy Riot members Nadya Tolokonnikova and Masha Alyokhina, Bad Religion vocalist and UCLA professor Greg Graffin, Rise Against vocalist Tim McIlrath, writer/activist Marcelle Karp, and Riot Fest founder Michael Petryshyn. In addition, 2014 saw the return of Riot Fest in Denver and Toronto. The 2014 Chicago lineup included\n\nFriday, September 12: Jane's Addiction (performing \"Nothing's Shocking\"), Rise Against, Slayer (performing \"Reign in Blood\"), The Offspring (performing \"Smash\"), NOFX (performing \"Punk in Drublic\"), Gogol Bordello, Of Mice & Men, Mastodon, The Murder City Devils, Failure, Circa Survive, Clutch, GWAR, Stiff Little Fingers, Black Joe Lewis & the Honeybears, We Came as Romans, Senses Fail (performing \"Let It Enfold You\"), All, Title Fight, Emarosa, Pity Sex, From Indian Lakes, The Hotelier, Radkey, Pianos Become the Teeth, Red City Radio, Baby Baby, Wounds, Plague Vendor, Somos, ¡Vamos!\n\nSaturday, September 13: The National, The Flaming Lips, Wu-Tang Clan, Samhain (performing \"Initium\"), Descendents (performing \"Milo Goes to College\"), Metric, Taking Back Sunday, Die Antwoord, City and Colour, Paul Weller, The Used, The Afghan Whigs, Cock Sparrer, Dashboard Confessional, Television, Saosin, Say Anything, The Mighty Mighty Bosstones, Tokyo Police Club, The Dandy Warhols, The Get Up Kids (performing \"Something to Write Home About\"), Me First and the Gimme Gimmes, Streetlight Manifesto, Buzzcocks, Face to Face, Wavves, The Orwells, Rx Bandits, Samiam, 7 Seconds, Anti-Flag, FrnkIero And The Cellabration, Citizen, The World Is a Beautiful Place & I Am No Longer Afraid to Die, Lemuria, The Pizza Underground, Nostalghia, Skaters, The Unlikely Candidates, Jessica Hernandez & the Deltas, The Bots, Broncho, The American Scene, Restorations, The Picturebooks, Rose's Pawn Shop, The Crombies, Ex Friends, Daniel Wade, Buffalo Rodeo\n\nSunday, September 14: The Cure, Weezer (performing \"The Blue Album\"), Social Distortion, Primus, Tegan and Sara, Cheap Trick (performing \"Heaven Tonight\"), Patti Smith, Bring Me the Horizon, Dropkick Murphys, Naked Raygun (performing \"Throb Throb\"), Superchunk, Billy Bragg, The Hold Steady, Blue Meanies, Lucero, New Found Glory, Mudhoney, Hot Snakes, Motion City Soundtrack, Andrew W.K. (performing \"I Get Wet\"), The Bouncing Souls, Kurt Vile & the Violators, Mineral, La Dispute, Only Crime, The Menzingers, The Front Bottoms, Silverstein, The Whigs, In The Valley Below, Modern Baseball, I Am the Avalanche, Laura Stevenson, Cerebral Ballzy, Pup, Dads, ShowYouSuck, Lucki Eck$, My Gold Mask, Tiny Moving Parts, Team Spirit, Survay Says!, Chumped, Archie Powell & the Exports, Netherfriends, Mutts, The Grizzled Mighty\n\nConflicts over the condition of grass and negative effects on the Boricua community, including gentrification of Humboldt Park and lack of financial benefits to the residents of the area led to the festival being moved to Douglas Park. After settling on the new location, Saint Anthony Hospital filed a lawsuit against Riot fest on September 4, arguing that the festival would be detrimental to their patients' health because of the \"extreme noise” and the heavy traffic that would surround the hospital. The two sides reached an agreement which included \"restoring parking on 19th Street in front of Saint Anthony Hospital, building pedestrian barricades on the west side of California Avenue and sound monitoring within the hospital to protect patients.\"\n\nThe 2015 Chicago lineup included:\nFriday, September 11: No Doubt, Faith No More, Motörhead, Ice Cube with DJ Yella and MC Ren, Alkaline Trio, Coheed and Cambria, Flogging Molly, Slightly Stoopid, Thrice, Dirty Heads, Anthrax, Eagles of Death Metal, Against Me!, Bayside, Mest, Atreyu, Lee \"Scratch\" Perry, The Expendables, Living Colour, Fishbone, Death, Mariachi El Bronx, CIV, Every Time I Die, Real Friends, 88 Fingers Louie, Mustard Plug, Into It. Over It., Post Malone With FKi, Chef'Special, Barb Wire Dolls, The Coathangers, Prayers, Speedy Ortiz, White Mystery, Ground Up, Skinny Lister, Alex Wiley, Heems, Psalm One, Dreamers, Faulkner\n\nSaturday, September 12: System of a Down, Iggy Pop, Rancid (performing \"...And Out Come the Wolves\"), Billy Idol, Taking Back Sunday, Drive Like Jehu, Merle Haggard, Alexisonfire, The Academy Is... (performing \"Almost Here\"), The Lawrence Arms, Echo & the Bunnymen, Bootsy Collins' Rubber Band, The Damned, Pennywise, The Devil Wears Prada, Mayday Parade, Babes in Toyland, Desaparecidos, The Joy Formidable, The Dead Milkmen, FIDLAR, Millencolin, American Nightmare, Swervedriver, Gwar, Lifetime, Joyce Manor, The Movielife, Steve Ignorant and Paranoid Visions, The Dear Hunter, The Ataris (performing \"Blue Skies, Broken Hearts...Next 12 Exits\"), Modern Life Is War (performing \"Witness\"), Fit for Rivals, Flatfoot 56, Teenage Bottlerocket, Chon, Counterpunch, Direct Hit!, Dirty Fences, Sleep On It, The Brokedowns, Meat Wave, Elway, Indian Handcrafts, Pears, Clowns\n\nSaturday also saw the return of the \"Riot Fest Speaks\" panel series, once again moderated by Henry Rollins. The panel featured Damien Echols and Jason Baldwin of the West Memphis Three, discussing their history and the contribution of music activism to their release from prison. They were joined for the panel by Thurston Moore and former Crass vocalist Steve Ignorant.\n\nSunday, September 13: Modest Mouse, The Prodigy, Snoop Dogg, Damian \"Jr. Gong\" Marley, Tenacious D, Rodrigo Y Gabriela, L7, Stephen \"Ragga\" Marley, Kongos, Cypress Hill, Yelawolf, The Airborne Toxic Event, Manchester Orchestra, De La Soul, Andrew McMahon in the Wilderness, New Politics, Jimmy Cliff, Andrew W.K., Less Than Jake, The Thurston Moore Band, Morgan Heritage, Doomtree, Hum, Tarrus Riley, The Dwarves, Tommy Stinson, Kevin Devine, Jo Mersa, Alvvays, The White Buffalo, Black-Am-I, Skip Marley, Knuckle Puck, Jazz Cartier, Have Mercy, Superheaven, Foxing, Beach Slang, Cayetana, Blis, Northern Faces, Souvenirs, Skating Polly, Signals Midwest, Modern Chemistry, Tashsa the Amazon, Foxtrott, Twin River, Indian School\n\nSunday also featured an additional \"Riot Fest Speaks\" panel, entitled \"Basement Screams\", on Chicago's independent and punk scenes. The panel was moderated by Metro Chicago owner/founder Joe Shanahan and included Rise Against bassist Joe Principe, Naked Raygun lead vocalist Jeff Pezzati, The Lawrence Arms bassist/vocalist Brendan Kelly, Bloodshot Records founder Nan Warshaw, The Bollweevils vocalist Daryl Wilson, and Oz owner Dem Hopkins. Sunday also included a performance by \"punk poet\" John Cooper Clarke and a surprise side stage performance from Taking Back Sunday\n\nOn May 12, 2016 it was announced that after 33 years, the Misfits lineup of Glenn Danzig, Jerry Only and Doyle Wolfgang von Frankenstein would reunite and headline the Riot Fest in Chicago and Denver in September 2016.\n\nThe Chicago lineup includes:\n\nFriday, September 16: The Flaming Lips, Ween, Julian Marley (performing Bob Marley and the Wailers' \"Exodus\"), The Specials, Jimmy Eat World, NOFX, Refused, Pierce the Veil, All Time Low, Glassjaw, Pepper, Meat Puppets, Dan Deacon, Gwar, The Anniversary, Set Your Goals, Neck Deep, Highly Suspect, Fu Manchu, Girls Against Boys, The Dillinger Escape Plan, Tigers Jaw, Basement, Touché Amoré, Diarrhea Planet, Big D and the Kids Table, Citizen, Turnover, Violent Soho, Off with Their Heads, Holy White Hounds, Laura Stevenson, Somos, 3Teeth, The Wans, Jule Vera, Worriers, Eskimeaux, The Far East, Bad Cop/Bad Cop, Stellar West\n\nSaturday, September 17: Morrissey, Death Cab for Cutie, Social Distortion (performing \"White Light, White Heat, White Trash\"), Nas, Brand New, Fitz and The Tantrums, Descendents, Motion City Soundtrack, The Hives, Bob Mould, The Hold Steady (performing \"Boys and Girls in America\"), Method Man & Redman, GZA, Smoking Popes, The Vandals, Fucked Up, I the Mighty, The Toasters, Hippo Campus, Balance and Composure, People Under the Stairs, White Lung, Jessica Hernandez & the Deltas, Dee-1, Brick + Mortar, Night Riots, Plague Vendor, Microwave, Death Spells, Deal's Gone Bad, Black Foxxes, The Walters, Nots, Donna Missal, Tasha the Amazon, Blackbox, High Waisted, Summer Cannibals, Partner, Kitten Forever, Sleepy Kitty, School of Rock\n\nSunday, September 18: Misfits, Rob Zombie (performing White Zombie's \"\"), Sleater-Kinney, Deftones, Bad Religion, Underoath, Thursday, Jake Bugg, Death Grips, The Julie Ruin, Joey Badass, Chevy Metal, Me First and the Gimme Gimmes, Tiger Army, The Wonder Years, Dee Snider, Andrew W.K., Leftöver Crack, Billy Talent, The Falcon, Juliette and the Licks, frnkiero andthe patience, The Bronx, Pouya, Swingin' Utters, Denzel Curry, Bleached, Creeper, Tancred, Marina City, Syd Arthur, The Dirty Nil, The So So Glos, Big Ups, All Dogs, War on Women, Hard Girls, A Will Away, Can't Swim, With Our Arms to the Sun, The Gallow Walkers, School of Rock\n\nOn March 17, 2017, Riot Fest announced that the festival would not return to Denver, citing the death of co-founder Sean Mckeough the previous November as making it impossible to focus on more than one event in 2017. Despite this, the festival has expressed interest in eventually returning to Denver.\n\nThe Chicago lineup included:\n\nFriday: Nine Inch Nails, New Order, A Day to Remember, Dirty Heads, Vic Mensa, Ministry, Death from Above, Action Bronson, X, Mayday Parade (performing \"A Lesson in Romantics\"), The Cribs, Liars, Buzzcocks, The Story So Far, State Champs, Four Year Strong, INVSN, Chon, The Hotelier, Saul Williams, Nothing More, Radar State, Tobacco, Seaway, Like Pacific, Sleep On It, Grayscale, Skating Polly, Warm Brew, and Hdbeendope\n\nSaturday: Queens of the Stone Age, Wu-Tang Clan (performing \"Enter the Wu-Tang (36 Chambers)\"), Mike D (DJ Set), At the Drive-In, Danzig (performing \"\"), Gogol Bordello, Taking Back Sunday, New Found Glory, FIDLAR, Bad Brains, Peaches, The Lawrence Arms (performing \"Oh! Calcutta!\"), Bayside (performing \"The Walking Wounded\"), Dead Cross, Streetlight Manifesto, GBH, Shabazz Palaces, Fishbone (performing \"Truth and Soul\"), Knuckle Puck, Black Pistol Fire, Slaves, Versus, RVIVR, The Smith Street Band, Potty Mouth, The Regrettes, Cold Beat, Turnspit, and Gin Rummy\n\nSunday: Jawbreaker, Paramore, Prophets of Rage, M.I.A., TV on the Radio, Dinosaur Jr. (performing \"You're Living All Over Me\"), Pennywise, Built to Spill (performing \"Keep It Like a Secret\"), The Mighty Mighty Bosstones (performing \"Let's Face It\"), The Orwells, Best Coast, Cap'n Jazz, Minus the Bear, Say Anything, The Menzingers, , GWAR, Hot Water Music, Real Friends, Andrew W.K., Beach Slang, that dog. (performing \"Retreat from the Sun\"), Mad Caddies, The Flatliners, Dessa, The Voluptuous Horror of Karen Black, Engine 88, Downtown Boys, Culture Abuse, Gazebos, Kitten Forever, and Upset\n\nRiot Fest was again held in Douglas Park in Chicago, September 14-16. \n\nThe 2018 lineup included:\nRun The Jewels, Weezer, Taking Back Sunday, Beck, Elvis Costello & the Imposters, Incubus, Young the Giant, Interpol, Blondie, Alkaline Trio, Father John Misty, Jerry Lee Lewis, Dropkick Murphys, Bleachers, Atmosphere, Flogging Molly, Cypress Hill, Bad Religion, Underoath, Matt and Kim, The Jesus Lizard, Sum 41, The Voidz, The Front Bottoms, Twin Peaks, K.Flay, Suicidal Tendencies, Bullet for My Valentine, Clutch, The Wonder Years, Digable Planets, Liz Phair, Cat Power, Gary Numan, Killing Joke, Hot Snakes, Wolfmother, SWMRS, Johnny Marr, Superchunk, JD McPherson, Reignwolf, Lagwagon, Pussy Riot, Fear, Andrew W.K., GWAR, The Aquabats, Hobo Johnson & the LoveMakers, Face to Face, The Exploited, The Bouncing Souls, Dillinger Four, Conflict, Piebald, Adolescents, The Avengers, Cobra Skulls, HEALTH, Calpurnia, Kevin Devine, The Frights, The Districts, Arkells, The Audition, Spitalfield, Flor, Speedy Ortiz, Bully, Lower Class Brats, Total Chaos, The Fever 333, Direct Hit!, Mom Jeans., Mannequin Pussy, Pronoun, Beach Goons, The Bombpops, Badflower, Save Face, Super Whatevr, Beach Bunny, and No Small Children.\n\nTwo instances of Riot Fest have been canceled over the course of the festival's run.\n\nThe first came in 2009 in the form of Riot Fest West, originally set to happen in November 2009 and postponed in September. The fest initially vowed to make up the dates in Spring 2010 but the replacement fest did not materialize.\n\nThe second cancellation came three years later in 2012 when Riot Fest East in Philadelphia was again postponed, this time one week before the show's planned July 19 start date. Though a reschedule was initially promised a follow up never emerged.\n\nThough not an outright cancellation, Riot Fest Brooklyn in 2012 was shut down early due to weather concerns.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10165885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10165885", "title": "Source Columba", "text": "Source Columba\n\nAccording to a 2007 newspaper report, Source Columba (Latin \"columba\", \"pigeon\") was the code name for the Confidential Pigeon Service, an unconventional British intelligence gathering operation in World War II.\n\nIt involved air-dropping homing pigeons behind enemy lines in German-occupied France and the Netherlands as a means for locals to convey information, such as troop movements, to British intelligence. From 1940 onwards, hundreds of pigeon cases were parachuted into Europe, each case including – apart from the pigeon – sheets of very thin paper, a special pencil and a tube for storing the message, as well as French and Dutch instructions on how to fill in a report. A recent copy of a London newspaper was also included as proof of good faith.\n\nIn 1944, prior to the imminent Allied invasion, German counterintelligence sought to counteract (or co-opt) \"Source Columba\" by dropping pigeons of their own. These pigeon cases, accompanied by a packet of English cigarettes, were purporting to be British also and carried instructions to communicate the names of the local patriots to the Allies. The Résistance, for its part, let it be known that the best way to deal with these false birds would be to smoke the cigarettes and eat the pigeons.\n\nDespite such interference, the operation was reported to have been remarkably successful, yielding useful intelligence in over fifty percent of the received messages. 31 \"Source Columba\" pigeons eventually received the Dickin Medal, the highest British military decoration for animals. The operation became public only after National Archives files relating to it were released in 2007. However the method and a few actual cases were described in some detail in Dr R.V. Jones' autobiographical book \"Most Secret War\" in 1978.\n\n"}
{"id": "20786428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20786428", "title": "South American Business Forum", "text": "South American Business Forum\n\nThe South American Business Forum, also known as 'SABF', is an annual conference that takes place at the Instituto Tecnológico de Buenos Aires in Buenos Aires, Argentina. The forum aims, through dialogue and the interaction between current leaders and future leaders, to make a contribution to the sustainable development of South America and the world.\n\nThe South American Business Forum was founded in 2005, and has been organized annually since then by students of the Instituto Tecnológico de Buenos Aires. The event gathers 100 university students from all around the world and 40 prominent international leaders from the academical, financial, political and social spheres.\n\nThe South American Business Forum purpose is to bring together the most talented students in the region with top business leaders under the same topic: corporate ethics and sustainable development. Dialogue and debate between leaders of today and leaders of tomorrow will permit an invaluable exchange of perspectives of the World.\n\nThe Forum's ideal is to promote the values which leaders must pursuit in order to contribute to the World's sustainable development. The SABF team strongly believes that this event will be a unique opportunity to make a direct contribution to South America.\n\nIn the SABF's past seven editions, more than a thousand students from over 62 different nationalities have participated. Students from universities such as Harvard University, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, London School of Economics and Universidad Autónoma de Madrid, among others have participated of the forum. Doug Casey (American-born economist and best-selling financial author), Viktor Klima (Former Chancellor of Austria), Nabeel Goheer, (Global Coordinator - Youth Entrepreneurship Development, International Labour Organization), Félix Luna (Argentinian Writer and Historian), Alexander Laszlo (systems scientist) and Guy Sorman (President, Sorman Editions) are amongst the prominent leaders who have taken part of the event.\n\n14th Edition\n\"The Power Paradox\" August 3-5, 2018\n\n13th Edition\n\"Chasing a Shared Purpose\" August 3-5, 2017\n\n12th Edition\n\"A Conversation Across Borders\" August 5-7, 2016\n\n11th Edition\n\"The Challenge of Inclusion\" August 6-8, 2015\n\n10th Edition\n\"The Age of Collaboration\" August 7–9, 2014\n\n9th Edition\n\"Rethinking the Rules of the Game\" August 8–10, 2013\n\n8th Edition\n“Global Objectives, Collaborative Actions” August 3–05, 2012\n\n7th Edition\n“Facing Exponential Times” August 5–07, 2011\n\n6th Edition\n“Boosting Our Actions In the new Decade“ August 6–08, 2010\n\n5th Edition\n“New Paradigms, New Challenges” August 7–09, 2009\n\n4th Edition\n“Empowering Agents of Changes” August 8–10, 2008\n\n3rd Edition\n“Positioning Strategies for Sustainable Development” August 3–05, 2007\n\n2nd Edition\n“Politics and Social Responsibility in a Globalized World” August 4–06, 2006\n\n1st Edition\n“The Challenges of New Leaders: Values, Technology and Innovation“ August 12–14, 2005\n\n"}
{"id": "23448359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23448359", "title": "St. Francis Raid", "text": "St. Francis Raid\n\nThe St. Francis Raid was an attack in the French and Indian War by Robert Rogers on St. Francis, near the southern shore of the Saint Lawrence River in what was then the French province of Canada, on October 4, 1759. Rogers and about 140 men entered the village, which was reportedly occupied primarily by women, children, and the elderly, early that morning, slaughtered many of the inhabitants where they lay, shot down many who attempted to flee, and then burned the village. Rogers reported killing as many as 300 people, while French reports placed the number closer to thirty, mainly women and children. One of Rogers' men was killed, and seven were wounded.\n\nRogers and his men endured significant hardships to reach the village from the British base at Fort Crown Point in present-day New York, and even more hardship afterwards. Chased by the French and vengeful Indians, and short on rations, Rogers and his men returned to Crown Point via the Connecticut River valley. Missteps in caching food stores for the expedition's use led to starvation, and some of Rogers' men were reportedly driven to cannibalism in order to survive. About one third of the raid's participants did not return.\n\nBritish colonial reports of the raid were unapologetic, as St. Francis had long been a place from which the natives raided colonial settlements as far south as Massachusetts, and Rogers reported a large number of English scalps decorating the main village buildings.\n\nThe 1759 summer campaign season in the French and Indian War was a resounding success for the forces of Great Britain. Fort Ticonderoga was captured in July, as was Fort Niagara, and Quebec was under siege. General Jeffery Amherst, the victor at Ticonderoga, had little news of the situation before Quebec, and he required accurate intelligence before deciding whether a move of his army along Lake Champlain was warranted. To that end he sent one party of rangers out on August 7 to reach General James Wolfe near Quebec by traveling up the Kennebec River, a long and roundabout route that took the party nearly one month to complete. Although this party successfully traveled the route in both directions, the time taken meant that their news was effectively useless to Amherst due to the lateness of the season.\nAmherst sent a second party, consisting of two officers from the 17th Regiment and a handful of Stockbridge Indians, on a route from the northern end of Lake Champlain toward Quebec via the primarily Abenaki village of St. Francis. In addition to dispatches for Wolfe, this party, led by Captain Quinton Kennedy, had, as a sort of cover for their movements, instructions to make offers of friendship to the Abenakis in exchange for their non-participation in the hostilities between the British and French. They carried a belt of wampum as part of this offer.\n\nThe village of St. Francis, which was regarded by many as an Abenaki village, was in fact inhabited by a diverse community. In addition to the Abenakis who arrived after Father Rale's War, members of other tribes that had been driven from New England in earlier conflicts lived there, as did white settlers that had either by choice or by capture adopted native ways. The village consisted of what were then typical European-style homes centered around a church. It had a reputation among British colonists to the south as the launching point for raids into communities as far south as Massachusetts. Robert Rogers was a teenager in New Hampshire at the time of one such raid in 1746.\n\nKennedy and his party left Fort Crown Point on August 8. Word reached Amherst on August 19 that they had successfully reached Missisquoi Bay at the northern end of the lake in spite of French ships patrolling the area. French General François-Charles de Bourlamaque, in command of the French defenses at Île-aux-Noix, was alerted to the presence of Kennedy's party and intended movements by the arrival of British deserters on August 22. Bourlamaque immediately sent out patrols and alerted the St. Francis Abenakis to do the same. On August 24 Kennedy's party was surrounded and captured by the Abenakis; despite attempts at bribery and negotiation, they were turned over to General Louis-Joseph de Montcalm in Quebec. Amherst learned of this on September 10 when a letter from Montcalm reached him indicating that the two British officers were his prisoners. Montcalm noted that the men were not in uniform, a tacit implication that Montcalm could have treated them as spies and hanged them, rather than treating them as prisoners of war.\nAccounts circulated within the British camps that the two officers had been mistreated by the Abenaki, including the possibility of ritual torture. This heightened anger and resentment among the British, and Amherst, apparently upset over the Abenaki behavior, decided to send Robert Rogers on a mission of revenge. Rogers assembled a company of 220 men, drawn in part from his ranger companies but also including men he selected from the regular army. A significant number of his men were Stockbridge Indians bent on freeing their compatriots, and others were Mohegans from his ranger corps.\n\nAmherst's orders to Rogers on September 13 included the following: \"Remember the barbarities that have been committed by the enemy's Indian scoundrels on every occasion, where they had an opportunity of showing their infamous cruelties on the King's subjects, which they have done without mercy. Take your revenge, but don't forget ... it is my orders that no women or children are killed or hurt.\"\n\nThe expedition left Crown Point on the night of September 13. Its departure was not a well-kept secret, although Rogers and Amherst were the only ones to know its actual destination, and Amherst took steps to publish false instructions about Rogers' movements. The party, occupying 17 whaleboats, rowed north. Due to heightened French patrolling in the wake of Kennedy's mission, they made slow progress. The early days brought some notable disappointments, as more than 40 men turned back due to a variety of accidents and illnesses. Rogers reached the head of Missisquoi Bay early on September 23, where the boats and supplies for the return trip were concealed and left with two Indians as guards.\n\nUnfortunately for Rogers, his landing had not gone unnoticed. Although he had successful eluded the naval patrols, the British victory at Quebec on September 13 had resulted in the movement of French troops toward Lake Champlain, and there were increased French patrols in the area. General Bourlamaque had recently personally scouted Missisquoi Bay and declared it a good place from which the British could launch an attack. While French scouting expeditions the previous days had not turned up anything noteworthy, one party sent out the very day Rogers landed found a British oar floating in the bay. The next day, a larger party of scouts, coincidentally led by Oliver de la Durantaye, who had battled Rogers in 1758, discovered the boats. Some were destroyed and others were taken by the French for their use. Bourlamaque learned on September 25 that a sizable British force was in the area, and immediately raised the alarm to Montreal and sent out detachments in force to scour the countryside. He also concluded that the force might be targeting St. Francis in retaliation for Kennedy's capture, and stationed several hundred men near the site where the boats were hidden to set up an ambush in the event of Rogers' return.\n\nRogers at first chose a course that headed primarily east, in order to avoid both the French defenses at Île-aux-Noix and the more northerly route that Kennedy had followed. This took the party through extremely swampy terrain. Two days into the trek the two Indian guards brought the news that the boats had been taken by the French. This change of circumstance led Rogers to hold a council to discuss their options. As they were behind enemy lines and far from any support, all their options were relatively poor. Rogers reported that they decided to continue with the mission, and then to \"attempt a retreat (the only way we could think of) by way of No. 4\". As part of this daring plan, Rogers sent Lieutenant Andrew McMullen and a half dozen men overland to Crown Point with instructions to deliver a cache of food to the confluence of the Connecticut and Ammonoosuc rivers, a point about north of Number Four.\n\nMcMullen and his men made the overland trek to Crown Point (more than over difficult terrain) in nine days, arriving on October 3. Amherst immediately sent a ranger, Lieutenant Samuel Stevens, to Number Four with specific orders to deliver supplies to the agreed rendezvous point and to wait there until either Rogers and his men appeared or Stevens felt there was no probability of their appearance.\n\nRogers and his men spent the next week slogging through swampy terrain, covering a distance Rogers estimated at during which they were rarely dry. The conditions were so difficult that the French pursuit gave up, never discovering who they were looking for. On October 3 they finally reached dry land along the banks of the St. Francis River. The village of St. Francis lay downstream and across the river, and was closer than Rogers realized. When his men began chopping down trees to construct rafts for use in crossing the river, the sounds of the axes were heard in the village, but disregarded. Rogers and his men eventually moved several miles upstream to locate a suitable ford. In spite of this, he reported that the crossing \"was attended with no small difficulty\", with swiftly flowing water deep.\n\nMany of the Abenaki men had been called out by Governor Vaudreuil to assist in tracking down the mysterious British force, which had seemingly vanished. On October 3 Vaudreuil wrote to Bourlamaque that he had called on the Abenakis and some local militia to set up an ambush on the Yamaska River, the route Kennedy had used on his expedition.\n\nBy the time Rogers and his company saw the smoke from the fires of St. Francis late on October 3, his force had been reduced to 142 men, and their rations had been completely exhausted. That night, Rogers donned Indian dress and sneaked into the village. There he observed that the natives were dancing, apparently a war dance in preparation for a major scouting expedition. One news report claimed that Rogers learned that this expedition was to look for the unknown British force that might be in the area.\n\nRogers was not the only one of his party to enter the village. According to Abenaki oral tradition, a strange native identifying himself as a Mahican (as the Stockbridge Indians were also known) entered the village and circulated warnings that it was about to be attacked. A significant number of its inhabitants withdrew from the village in response to this warning, as many of the menfolk had answered Vaudreuil's call.\n\nAt 3:00 am on October 4 Rogers marched his men near the village and then divided them into companies for the attack. The best shooters were placed to fire on anyone trying to escape the village. At about 5 am the attack began. In complete surprise they fell on the village inhabitants, many sleeping in their houses after the long night of dancing. There was little to no organized defense as Rogers and his men broke down doors and shot, tomahawked, or bayoneted people where they lay. Amherst's order to avoid killing women and children was lost in the frenzy. Any resistance was quickly dealt with, and many who tried to escape were shot by the sentries posted outside the village. Some inhabitants managed to reach their canoes and attempted to escape across the river; they were chased down and the canoes were sunk with their occupants, which included children.\n\nAfter sunrise, Rogers ordered the village burned down. As the houses burned it became clear that some of the inhabitants had attempted to escape the carnage by hiding in the attic spaces, which then became death traps. The church was burned, but not before it was ransacked for its more valuable trappings, and at least one priest refused quarter and perished in the flames. The only structures not destroyed were the storehouses, which contained corn that Rogers and his men would require as sustenance during their retreat.\n\nOnly a few of the village's inhabitants at the time the raid began survived the experience. Robert Kirkwood, a Scotsman who had been mistreated by Shawnee earlier in the war, wrote that \"This was I believe the bloodiest scene in all America, our revenge being complete.\"\n\nRogers interrogated some of the captives, and learned that large companies of French and Indians were within easy marching distance, including a force of about 400 that were expected to arrive the next day. After a brief council, Rogers and his men agreed that the only reasonable means of retreat was to Number Four, a straight-line distance of about through uncharted wilderness. Rogers and his men gathered up their loot and as much of the stored corn as they could carry, and set off to the south.\n\nNews of the raid reached Trois-Rivières around noon on the day of the raid, and traveled quickly throughout the province. The attack on loyal allies of the French had to be answered, in spite of the larger threats posed by the armies of Amherst and Wolfe. Bourlamaque, in a somewhat naive move, sent a further 300 men to join the 400 already awaiting the British return to their boats on Missisquoi Bay, unaware that Rogers knew his boats were lost and had planned a different route of retreat. Vaudreuil also sent additional native reinforcement to assist in scouting the area around the bay.\n\nIn Trois-Rivières a small force of experienced fighters under Captain Jean-Daniel Dumas mustered to chase after Rogers. Going first to Yamaska to pick up some the force that had gathered there, they finally reached St. Francis on October 5, more than a day behind Rogers. A few men came out of the woods to join the party there as the carnage was surveyed and plans formulated to give chase.\n\nThe British force, burdened by supplies and prisoners, made fairly good progress, covering the from St. Francis to Lake Memphremagog in about eight days. At this point rations began to run out again, and Rogers made a critical decision. Somewhere near present-day Sherbrooke, Rogers broke the party up into companies of ten to twenty men, so that they might forage and hunt more effectively. While each party might be able to more readily supply itself for food, they also made easier targets for the pursuit.\n\nSeveral of the small companies were tracked down by determined pursuers. According to one French account, some forty of Rogers' men were killed and ten were brought as prisoners back to St. Francis, although historian Frank McLynn says that the expedition had 3 officers and 46 other ranks killed or captured. At St. Francis, some of the prisoners \"fell a victim to the fury of the Indian women, notwithstanding the efforts the Canadians could make to save them\", suggesting that they were not subjected to ritual torture or killing. Two of Rogers' men survived after being spirited away by a sympathetic \"English Indian\" to the relative safety of Trois-Rivières.\n\nThe journals of the later stages of the expedition provide only a fragmented picture of what occurred to those of Rogers' force that eluded the pursuit, as men subjected to exhaustion, exposure, and starvation are unlikely to make good reporters. The journal kept by Rogers was relatively terse concerning the trek to the Connecticut River, with \"many days tedious march over steep rocky mountains or thro' wet dirty swamps, with the terrible attendants of fatigue and hunger\". They reported eating bark, roots, mushrooms, and gnawed fragments of flesh off beaver skins. One widely reported account of cannibalism was recounted to historian Thomas Mante by Lieutenant George Campbell, in which his party of men came upon scalped remains trapped in logs on a small river, \"devouring part of them raw\" because they were too impatient to wait for a fire. Robert Kirkwood, in a relatively unadorned account, tells how Rogers killed one of their prisoners, an Indian woman, butchered the remains, and divided them among his men.\n\nAfter nine days of difficult travel, the group led by Rogers reached the appointed rendezvous on October 20. He found there a burning fire and no provisions. Lieutenant Stevens, whom Amherst had sent to Number Four to deliver the provisions to the rendezvous, had camped below the rendezvous point, and men from his party went to the rendezvous daily and fired their muskets to see if anyone was nearby. After several days of this, Stevens gave up, eventually returning to Crown Point on October 30. Amherst noted in his own journal that Stevens should probably have remained longer than he did.\n\nRogers took the disappointment in stride. Leaving most of his emaciated company behind with promises to return with supplies in ten days, he and three men descended the Connecticut River on rafts, reaching Number Four on October 31, where he was reportedly barely able to walk. Supplies were immediately dispatched upriver, which Rogers reported as reaching his starving men \"the tenth [day] after I left them\".\n\nOn November 2, French scouts on the shores of Missisquoi Bay heard English voices. Investigating in force, they discovered five English survivors of the St. Francis raid, whom they took prisoner. These men reported that at least one more small company was in the area; three more men were found, whose throats were slit when they were found to be carrying human flesh.\n\nNovember 2 was also the day the General Amherst learned that Rogers had executed the raid. The account, delivered by a French officer under a truce flag, included mention that women and children had been slain, an observation Amherst discounted. Rogers' second in command arrived at Crown Point on November 7 with Rogers' report. That same afternoon an Indian from the expedition appeared at Crown Point with word that a party of Rogers' men was on the far side of the lake. The party consisted of six rangers, three prisoners, and a white woman freed from captivity, as well as a large amount of gathered loot.\n\nAmherst replied to Rogers' report with approval: \"... every step you inform me you had taken has been very well Judged and Deserves my full approbation.\"\n\nNews of the raid was first treated with skepticism in the British colonies, but when confirmation came from Rogers himself, he and his men were treated as heroes. The \"New Hampshire Gazette\" devoted considerable space to coverage of the exploits of one of the province's famous fighters. The scope of the feat served to raise Rogers' popularity, even while he still worried about the fate of all of his men.\n\nMany of the village's residents who were not present at the time of the raid continued to serve with the French forces in the war, settling in other native communities along the Saint Lawrence. The village itself was eventually rebuilt.\n\n"}
{"id": "42894510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42894510", "title": "Stoning of Farzana Parveen", "text": "Stoning of Farzana Parveen\n\nFarzana Parveen Iqbal was stoned to death on 27 May 2014 outside a court in Lahore, Pakistan. Her father, two brothers and former fiancé were among the nearly twenty attackers. Farzana, who was pregnant by her husband Muhammad Iqbal, was killed following the tradition of honour killing.\n\nBy his own admission, Muhammad Iqbal strangled his first wife in 2008 out of love for Farzana Parveen, and so that he would be free to marry her. Police said he had been released after that murder when a \"compromise\" was reached with his first wife's family. Iqbal and Farzana had an engagement that had lasted years. When she became pregnant by him, they decided to marry. According to Iqbal, Farzana's father, Muhammad Parveen, withdrew support for the marriage after Iqbal refused his demands for more money, beyond the originally agreed bride-price.\n\nOn 27 May 2014, Farzana Iqbal, 30, was attacked by about a dozen male family members in front of a Pakistani High Court. The attackers were led by her father, Muhammad Parveen, but included her two brothers and other family members. They began by punching and kicking, then it escalated to using clubs and bricks, then hurling stones. She was killed for eloping and marrying Muhammad Iqbal, 45, whom she loved and by whom she was pregnant. Farzana Iqbal was pronounced dead at a local hospital.\n\nMost of the attackers initially escaped except for Farzana's father, Muhammad Parveen, who was arrested. Police investigator Mujahid quoted the father as saying: \"I killed my daughter as she had insulted all of our family by marrying a man without our consent, and I have no regret over it.\" As of 5 June 2014, 12 people have been arrested in connection with Iqbal's death, including her father.\n"}
{"id": "55760396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55760396", "title": "The 3rd V Chart Awards", "text": "The 3rd V Chart Awards\n\nThe 3rd V Chart Awards (第三届音悦V榜年度盛典) is a music awards hosted by YinYueTai on April 11, 2015 at Cadillac Arena, Beijing. The emcee for the award were Li Chen, Zhang Yu'an and Zhang Xinyue. The awards was broadcast on Shenzhen Television.\n\n1. The \"data-based category\" award nominees are artists who released an official MV in between January 1, 2015 to December 31, 2015 and the artist must be ranked in the chart throughout the whole year.\n\n2. \"The Most Popular Artists\" series of shortlisted nominees are the top 30 artists in the TOP100 list in all five regions.\n\n3. \"Artist Award\" series nominees are artists who released music-related work(s) in between January 2015 to December 31, 2015. In addition to the results of the MV chart, the awards will be based on a combination of criteria: the standard of the released album, participation in offline activities, performances, film and television, hosting and the results that accompanies.\n\n4. \"Composition Category\" award nominees are artists who released an official MV from January 1, 2015 to December 31, 2015 and the artist must have the most #1 wins in the chart throughout the whole year. \"MV Awards\" are based on MV production standards, word of mouth, shooting, conception, production and list of achievements to determine the winning entries.\n\n5. \"Album of The Year\" is determined according to the annual album sales data ranking on the Yin Yue Shopping Mall 2015. Shortlisted nominees are the top 10 albums on the data ranking.\n\nYinYueTai\n\nStarTV YinYueTai\n\nYinYueTai Mobile App, YinYueTai PC App, YinYueTai Official Website, Baidu\n\nBillboard, Gaon Charts\n\nHunan Broadcasting System, Dragon TV, Sohu TV, KpopStars, Baidu, Miaopai by MeituPic and more.\n\nOn March 4, 2015, The 3rd V Chart Awards was officially launched. On March 5, nominees for the \"Favourite Artist of the Year\" were announced. On the 9th, the first phase of the \"Favourite Artist of the Year\" series of polls began and voting ended on the 20th. A complete list of the winners was published on the official website on the subsequent day (March 12) of the award ceremony (March 11).\n\nHomepage \n"}
{"id": "16085499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16085499", "title": "The Hatpin", "text": "The Hatpin\n\nThe Hatpin is a musical by James Millar (book and lyrics) and Peter Rutherford (composer). It was inspired by the true story of Amber Murray who in 1892 gave up her son to the Makin family in Sydney, Australia. Written and developed in 2006–2007, \"The Hatpin\" opened at the York Theatre, Seymour Centre in Sydney on 27 February 2008. The musical has received subsequent productions in Australia, the United Kingdom and the United States.\n\n\"The Hatpin\" is the true story of a single mother, Amber Murray, who advertised her baby in a newspaper trading column in the hope of saving his life. Baby farmers take the child in return for regular support payments, but in fact murder the child. Eventually the evil couple are arrested and tried for the murder of several infants - leading to one of the most moving criminal trials in Australian history. Using the moral support she gains from her friendship with the free spirited Harriet Piper, Amber fights the injustices of circumstance and tragedy to find hope and strength.\n\nThe original Australian production of \"The Hatpin\" opened at the York Theatre, Seymour Centre in Sydney on 27 February 2008, produced by Neil Gooding Productions and White Box Theatre. It starred Melle Stewart, Peter Cousens, Michelle Doake, Gemma-Ashley Kaplan, Caroline O'Connor and Barry Crocker.\n\n\"The Hatpin\" made its US premiere on 15 September 2008 at the American Theatre of Actors in the Chernuchin Theatre as a participant of the New York Musical Theatre Festival. Caroline O'Connor followed \"The Hatpin\" overseas to reprise her role of Harriet Piper, as did Gemma-Ashley Kaplan, who returned to play Clara Makin.\n\nIn 2011 \"The Hatpin\" made its Melbourne premiere with Magnormos at Theatre Works, St. Kilda, with a season from 16 to 28 May. Directed by Shaun Kingma with musical direction by Sophie Thomas, the production's cast included Samantha Morley as Harriet Piper, Philip Gould as Charles Makin, Sophie Collins as Agatha Makin, Emma Jones as Clara Makin, and Gemma-Ashley Kaplan who this time played the role of Amber Murray.\n\nThe musical received a London fringe production from 30 October to 24 November 2012 at the Blue Elephant Theatre, in a Heather Doole, Blue Elephant & Greenwich Theatre co-production in association with Lazarus Theatre.\n\nThe West Australian premiere of \"The Hatpin\" took place at South Perth's Old Mill Theatre in July, 2014\n\n\nACT I:\nACT II: \n\nAn original cast album was released in 2008 by Neil Gooding Productions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46398610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46398610", "title": "Timeline of the Sinai insurgency", "text": "Timeline of the Sinai insurgency\n\nThe following is a chronological timeline of fatal incidents during the ongoing Sinai insurgency, which was invigorated by a period of relative instability and political turmoil in Egypt, beginning with the 2011 uprising against former autocrat Hosni Mubarak. Insurgent attacks, however, intensified significantly following the July 2013 coup that ousted Muslim Brotherhood-backed president Mohamed Morsi and subsequent crackdown on his supporters.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\"According to an official army spokesman statement, a total of 173 militants were killed in February 2015.\"\n\n\n\n\"According to an official army spokesman statement, a total number of 141 militants were killed in May 2015.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3775878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3775878", "title": "Tremont Theatre, Boston", "text": "Tremont Theatre, Boston\n\nThe Tremont Theatre (1827–1843) on 88 Tremont Street was a playhouse in Boston. A group of wealthy Boston residents financed the building's construction. Architect Isaiah Rogers designed the original Theatre structure in 1827 in the Greek Revival style. The playhouse opened on 24 September 1827.\n\nIn the early part of the 19th Century, Boston was still a small town, not yet the bustling metropolis it is today. The town already had one playhouse, the Federal Street Theatre, and the city's small population made supporting a second theatre difficult. The owners tried to bring in patrons by booking big-name performers. These included Junius Brutus Booth, Charlotte Cushman, George Washington Dixon, Fanny Elssler, Edwin Forrest, John Gilbert, Charles and Fanny Kemble, and Thomas D. Rice. Nevertheless, the Tremont never turned a profit during its 16-year life.\n\nAround 1829 Tom Comer served as musical director.\n\nOn 28 December 1843, the Free Church Baptists bought the theatre and renamed it the Tremont Temple. Although the building was largely used for religious events after this, it still served as the venue for public events on occasion.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "629179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=629179", "title": "Vietnam Syndrome", "text": "Vietnam Syndrome\n\nVietnam Syndrome, in U.S. politics, is a term used to refer to public aversion to American overseas military involvements, following the domestic controversy over the Vietnam War, which ended in 1975. Since the early 1980s, the combination of a public opinion apparently biased against war, a relative reluctance to deploy ground troops and conscription, and \"Vietnam paralysis\" are all the perceived results of the syndrome.\n\nThere is a general consensus by global historians and even most military analysts that from a purely strategic point of view, the U.S. military was losing the war on the battlefield \"despite\" its superior firepower and superior technology, due largely to political decisions that hampered the efforts of military command. Military historians and those who participated in the war note that indeed, the full spread of United States military technology, numbers, and expertise was present during the war, all the way to its very end, but the requirement of individual bombing raids being approved by the Commander in Chief personally, hindered the ability of commanders in country to execute an effective war strategy. While the Viet Cong and the regular North Vietnamese Army employed an agility in ways the United States forces and South Vietnamese forces did not, the lopsided losses experienced by the North indicated the effectiveness of the American execution of the war when political factors were not influencing actions on the battlefield. The victory of the communist forces in Vietnam can be at least partially attributed to non-military factors such as anti-war sentiments in the United States and political interference involving micromanagement of responsibilities typically delegated to military command (millions of Vietnamese were killed, versus many thousands, but not millions, of United States or South Vietnamese troops). The north Vietnamese were well versed in guerrilla warfare, sabotage, atypical and asymmetric battlefield moves, infiltration, etc., but their unsustainable casualty count would not have survived a protracted engagement in the absence of major American political interference and Communist funded anti-war propaganda in the United States which eroded popular support for the conflict.\n\nThere are those who explicitly equate the Vietnam Syndrome with a similar narrative prior to and the formation of Nazi Germany, in which the idea was spread that Germany had not actually lost World War I but had instead been \"stabbed in the back by\" forces from within that secretly wanted Germany to lose that war and to be weakened. That narrative, while central to Nazi Germany's bid for legitimacy - though refuted by unbiased scholars, persists with respect to the Vietnam conflict due largely to the severe imbalance of casualties that the North Vietnamese suffered (a roughly eight to one ratio).\n\nIn the domestic debate over why the US was unable to defeat North Vietnamese forces during the war, conservative thinkers, many in the US military, argued that the US had sufficient resources but the war effort had been undermined at home. In an article in \"Commentary\", \"Making the World Safe for Communism,\" journalist Norman Podhoretz stated:\n\nDo we lack power?… Certainly not if power is measured in brute terms of economic, technological, and military capacity. By those standards, we are still the most powerful country in the world…. The issue boils down in the end, then, to the question of will.\n\nThereafter, the term \"Vietnam syndrome\" proliferated in the press and policy circles as a way of talking about why the United States, one of the world's superpowers, had not succeeded in repelling the North's invasion of South Vietnam. Many conservatives agreed with Podhoretz:\n\n…a fickle and spineless public, an unpatriotic anti-war movement and undisciplined soldiers had ashamed the nation by their unwillingness or inability to do what was necessary to destroy North Vietnam. The world was a dangerous place, they warned, and any retreat or compromise was an invitation to Communists and other wicked people out to destroy American supremacy and, by extension, the American way of life.\n\nIn time, the term \"Vietnam syndrome\" also came into use as a shorthand for the idea that Americans were worried they would never win a war again and that the nation was in utter decline.\n\nThe administration of U.S. President Ronald Reagan hoped that the perceived success of the United States invasion of Grenada would help dispel the Vietnam Syndrome so that the American public could be successfully galvanized to support new US military actions, with President Reagan after the invasion declaring: \"Our days of weakness are over. Our military forces are back on their feet and standing tall.\"\n\nThe quick victory in the First Gulf War was widely believed to be the end of the Vietnam Syndrome. U.S. President George H. W. Bush triumphantly declared after the First Gulf War that \"The ghosts of Vietnam have been laid to rest beneath the sands of the Arabian desert.\"\n\nIn the later 1970s and the 1980s, Ronald Reagan talked about the aspects of the Vietnam Syndrome but argued that it could be overcome if Americans adopted a more confident and optimistic posture in the world, with him as leader. In the speech to the Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW), which used the term \"Vietnam syndrome,\" Reagan alleged that the time was right for such a change of attitude and action since the Soviet Union was outspending the US in the global arms race such that the latter's global power was decreasing. He accused the Carter administration of being \"totally oblivious\" to the Soviet threat.\n\nAsserting a need for a more aggressive, activist foreign policy, Reagan also suggested that Americans could have defeated the Viet Cong and the North Vietnamese Army by alleging that the American public had turned against the war from the influence of North Vietnamese propaganda and implying that officials had let down the soldiers and been \"afraid to let them win\" the war.\n\nReagan equated the \"Vietnam syndrome\" not only with a reluctance on the part of the American public to support US military interventions but also with feelings of guilt about the devastation brought about because of the Vietnam War and with feelings of doubt over the morality of America's intentions and actions during the war. Reagan, however, argued that America had fought for \"a noble cause\" and blamed the war in Vietnam exclusively on North Vietnam's aggression:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2140375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140375", "title": "Zanj Rebellion", "text": "Zanj Rebellion\n\nThe Zanj Rebellion ( ) was a major uprising against the Abbasid Caliphate, which took place from 869 until 883. Begun near the city of Basra in present-day southern Iraq and led by one 'Ali ibn Muhammad, the insurrection is traditionally believed to have involved some enslaved Bantu-speaking people (Zanj) who had originally been captured from the coast of East Africa and transported to the Middle East. It grew to involve many slaves and free men from several regions of the Caliphate, and claimed tens of thousands of lives before it was finally defeated.\n\nSeveral Muslim historians, such as al-Tabari and al-Mas'udi, consider the Zanj revolt to be one of the \"most vicious and brutal uprisings\" of the many disturbances that plagued the Abbasid central government. Modern scholars have characterized the conflict as being \"one of the bloodiest and most destructive rebellions which the history of Western Asia records,\" while at the same time praising its coverage as being among the \"most fully and extensively described campaign[s] in the whole of early Islamic historical writing.\" The precise composition of the rebels remains a subject of debate, both as regards their identity and as to the proportion of slaves and free among them – available historical sources being open to various interpretations.\n\nThe Zanj were Bantu-speaking slaves who had been imported from Africa and who were primarily utilized for agricultural labor as part of the plantation economy of southern Iraq. The demand for servile labor during this period was fueled by wealthy residents of the port city of Basra, who had acquired extensive marshlands in the surrounding region. These lands had been abandoned as a result of peasant migration and repeated flooding over time, but they could be converted back into cultivatable status through intensive labor.\n\nLocal magnates were able to gain ownership of this land on the condition that they would make it arable. As a result, they acquired large numbers of Zanj and other slaves, who were placed into work camps and tasked with clearing away the nitrous topsoil as part of the reclamation process. Other Zanj were used to work in the salt flats of lower Iraq, especially in the area around Basra.\n\nBoth the working and living conditions of the Zanj were considered to be extremely miserable. The menial labor they were engaged in was difficult and the slaves appear to have been poorly treated by their masters. Two previous attempts to rebel against these circumstances are known to have occurred in 689–90 and in 694. Both of these revolts had quickly failed and thereafter little is known about their history prior to 869.\n\nBeginning in 861, the Abbasid Caliphate was weakened by a period of severe disorder known as the Anarchy at Samarra, during which the central government in Abbasid Samarra was paralyzed by a struggle between the caliphs and the military establishment for control of the state. Throughout the 860s the various factions in the capital were distracted by this conflict, which resulted in the deaths of several caliphs, army commanders and bureaucrats, the outbreak of multiple troop riots, a damaging civil war in 865–866, and the virtual bankruptcy of the government.\n\nThe anarchy in Samarra allowed a number of provinces to fall into the hands of rebels, while provincial governors were free to act in an independent manner in the territories assigned to them. The effective loss of provinces, in turn, resulted in a decrease in taxation revenues received by the central government, further exacerbating the crisis in the capital and crippling the government's ability to effectively respond to challenges against its authority. This continuing instability greatly facilitated the initial success of the Zanj revolt, as the government proved incapable of committing sufficient troops and resources to subdue the rebels.\n\nThe leader of the revolt was a 'Ali ibn Muhammad, an individual of uncertain background. Little is known about his family or early life due to a scarcity of information and conflicting accounts. According to one version, his paternal grandfather was descended from the 'Abd al-Qays and his paternal grandmother was a Sindhi slave woman, while his mother, a free woman, was a member of the Banu Asad ibn Khuzaymah. Some later commentators have presumed him to have been of Persian rather than Arab background, but other historians consider this to be unlikely. 'Ali himself claimed to have been descended from Ali ibn Abi Talib, the son-in-law of the Islamic prophet Muhammad and fourth caliph of the Rashidun Caliphate, but this was largely rejected by Muslim historians of the era as false.\n\nRegardless of his origins, 'Ali appears to have spent at least a part of his youth living in the area of Rayy, and at an unspecified date he moved to the 'Abbasid capital of Samarra, where he mixed with some of the influential slaves of Caliph al-Muntasir (861-62). In 863, he made his way from Samarra to Bahrain (modern eastern Arabia), where he pretended to be Shi'i and started to rouse the people into rebellion against the caliphate. Support for his cause quickly grew. A large number of Bahranis submitted to his authority and the \"kharaj\" (land taxes) were collected in his name. Despite this, his rebellion eventually failed due to opposition from the local inhabitants, whereupon 'Ali abandoned the region and relocated to the city of Basra in southern Iraq in 868.\n\nIn Basra 'Ali sought to take advantage of disturbances caused by the city's rival groups, the Bilaliyyah and Sa'diyyah, and attempted to secure the support of one of the factions. Eventually he proclaimed a new revolt, but no one in the city rallied to his side and he was forced to flee to the marshlands of southern Iraq. There he was arrested by the provincial authorities and sent to Wasit. He was quickly able to secure his freedom and went to Baghdad, where he remained for the next year. During his time in Baghdad he claimed to be a Zaydi by being related to the grandson of Zayd ibn Ali and won over additional followers for his movement.\n\nWhen 'Ali heard news about another scuffle between Basra's factions in 869, he returned to the region and \"began to seek out black slaves working in the Basra marshes and to inquire into their working conditions and nutritional standards.\" He began a campaign to liberate and recruit Zanj and other slaves, promising them freedom and wealth in exchange for their support. A large number of people quickly joined his cause, and 'Ali soon came to be known by the title \"Sāhib az-Zanj\", meaning \"Chief of the Zanj\". However, 'Ali's movement attracted not only Zanj but many other socially downtrodden peoples. These included \"semi-liberated slaves, clients of prestigious families, a number of small craftsmen and humble workers, some peasantry and some Bedouin peoples who lived around Basrah.\"\n\nWhile he was gaining followers for his rebellion, 'Ali adopted slogans of the egalitarian doctrine of the Kharijites, who \"preached that the most qualified man should reign, even if he was an Abyssinian slave.\" He inscribed his banner and coins with Kharijite expressions and started off his Friday sermons with the slogan \"God is great, God is great, there is no God but God, and God is great; there is no arbitration except by God,\" which was \"the war cry used by the Kharijites when they defected from the ranks of Ali ibn Abi Talib during the battle of Siffin.\" At the same time, however, 'Ali did not completely abandon the pretense of being an Alid and maintained the claim that he was a Zaydi.\n\nThe revolt, which began in September 869, was concentrated in the districts of Iraq and al-Ahwaz (modern Khuzestan Province) in the central regions of the Abbasid Caliphate. Over the course of the next fourteen years, the Zanj were able to combat the superior arms of the Abbasid government by waging guerrilla warfare against their opponents. They became adept at raiding towns, villages and enemy camps (often at night), seizing weapons, horses, food and captives and freeing fellow slaves, and burning the rest to cinders to delay retaliation. As the rebellion grew in strength, they also constructed fortresses, built up a navy for traversing the canals and rivers of the region, collected taxes in territories under their control, and minted their own coins.\n\nIn its initial stages, the rebellion was limited to the region around the city of Basra and the Blind Tigris. Early efforts by the Abbasid government to crush the revolt proved ineffectual, and several towns and villages were occupied or sacked, including al-Ubulla in 870 and Suq al-Ahwaz in 871. Basra fell in September 871 following an extended blockade, resulting in the city being burned and its inhabitants massacred. A retaliatory campaign undertaken by the caliphal regent Abu Ahmad ibn al-Mutawakkil (known by his honorific of al-Muwaffaq) against the rebels in 872 ended in failure, and the Zanj remained on the offensive over the next several years.\n\nThe continuing inability of the Abbasid army to suppress the revolt, caused in part by its preoccupation with fighting against the Saffarid Ya'qub ibn al-Layth's advance into al-Ahwaz and Iraq, eventually encouraged the Zanj to expand their activities to the north. A campaign by the rebels to occupy the marshlands between Basra and Wasit in 876 proved successful, and soon they made their way into the district of Kaskar. By 879, the rebellion reached its furthest extent. Wasit and Ramhurmuz were sacked and the rebels advanced northwest along the Tigris, coming to within fifty miles of Baghdad.\n\nThe Abbasid government regained the initiative in the war in late 879, when al-Muwaffaq sent his son Abu al-'Abbas (the future caliph al-Mu'tadid) with a major force against the rebels. Al-Muwaffaq himself joined the offensive in the following year, and over the next several months the government forces succeeded in clearing the rebels out of the districts of Iraq and al-Ahwaz and driving them back toward their \"capital\" of al-Mukhtarah, to the south of Basra.\n\nAl-Mukhtarah was placed under siege in February 881, and over the next two and half years a policy by al-Muwaffaq of offering generous terms to anyone that voluntarily submitted convinced many of the rebels to abandon the struggle. The fall of al-Mukhtarah in August 883, combined with the death or capture of 'Ali ibn Muhammad and most of the rebel commanders, brought the revolt to an end, and the remaining rebels either surrendered to the government or were killed.\n\nThe number of people killed in the conflict is difficult to estimate; contemporary writers gave widely variable figures, and these are considered by modern historians to be gross exaggerations. Al-Mas'udi reported a \"moderate\" estimate of 500,000 casualties – though he added a clarification that this was \"empty conjecture - rigorous calculation [of the amount slain] is impossible\" – and separately noted that 300,000 were killed at the battle of Basra. Al-Suli gave a figure of 1,500,000 dead, which was subsequently quoted by multiple sources, while Ibn al-Taqtaqi provided a high-end number of 2,500,000. Al-Tabari's \"History\" contains no comprehensive figures, but the author frequently noted the number of soldiers killed or injured in individual battles, with amounts ranging from hundreds to thousands.\nThe rebellion greatly disrupted economic activity and caused extensive damage to the districts it took place in. Sources of the revolt describe burnt cities and towns, the seizure of food and other resources by advancing armies, the abandonment of lands and the cessation of agricultural activity, disruptions in the regional trade, and the damaging of bridges and canals in the name of military exigency. Shortages of basic necessities, such as food and water, at times became severe, and instances of cannibalism are reported to have occurred.\n\nBoth the rebels and their opponents engaged in looting, destroying supplies that were likely to fall into enemy hands, and massacring or executing captives. The long term effects of the revolt, on the other hand, are more difficult to ascertain and opinions by modern historians vary; some like Bernard Lewis believe that the rebellion resulted in no significant changes, while others such as Theodor Nöldeke argue that the regions devastated by the conflict never fully recovered afterward.\n\nThe significant arms and resources that the Abbasid government was required to throw against the Zanj meant that it was forced to divert its attention from other fronts for the duration of the conflict, resulting in the effective loss of several provinces. Ahmad ibn Tulun, the Tulunid governor of Egypt, was able to take advantage of the Abbasids' preoccupation with the Zanj and forge a \"de facto\" independent state which would survive for more than three decades, while the Saffarids Ya'qub ibn al-Layth and Amr ibn al-Layth seized several of the eastern provinces and faced no serious opposition from the central government until Ya'qub's attempt to march on Iraq itself in 876. The revolt may have also affected the government's ability to defend against the Byzantines, who scored several successes on the Anatolian frontier during this period, and possibly even indirectly contributed to the rise of the Qarmatians of Bahrain a few years later.\n\nGhada Hashem Talhami, a scholar of the Zanj rebellion, argues that modern views of the revolt are distorted by mistakenly equating the Zanj with East Africans. The assumption that ‘Abbasid writers exclusively used the term \"Zanj\" to mean specifically the East African coast, and that therefore the people they called Zanj originated from a specific part of that region, is unsupported by contemporary sources due to their silence on the existence of an East African slave trade in this period, as well as by their occasional use of the term to mean \"blacks\" or \"Africa\" in general.\n\nTalhami cites from various historians and works to make her point that the rebellion was more of a religious/social uprising made by the lowly classed and suppressed citizens of the Basra area, which included a wide variety of people, including slaves of indeterminate origin. She points out that the sources specifically state that the people referred to as \"Zanj\" were not the only participants of the revolt, but were joined by Bahranis, Bedouins and others from the Basra region; moreover, they give no explicit indication that the Zanj even constituted a majority of the rebels.\n\nHistorian M. A. Shaban has argued that rebellion was not a slave revolt, but a revolt of blacks (\"zanj\"). In his opinion, although a few runaway slaves did join the revolt, the majority of the participants were Arabs and free East Africans, and if the revolt had been led by slaves, they would have lacked the necessary resources to combat the Abbasid government for as long as they did.\n\nMuch of the current knowledge of the Zanj Rebellion comes from the historian al-Tabari's work \"History of the Prophets and Kings\". It has been the subject of research by such famous Orientalists as Theodor Nöldeke (\"Sketches from Eastern History\") and Louis Massignon (\"The Passion of al-Hallaj\"). Alexandre Popović has authored a more recent monograph on the subject.\n\n\n\n"}
