{"id": "34145542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34145542", "title": "2018 in spaceflight", "text": "2018 in spaceflight\n\nThis article lists achieved and expected spaceflight events in 2018.\n\nIn planetary exploration, the NASA InSight seismology probe launched in May 2018 and landed on Mars in November. The Parker Solar Probe launched to explore the Sun in August 2018, and reached its first perihelion in November, traveling faster than any prior spacecraft. On 20 October the ESA and JAXA launched BepiColombo to Mercury, on a 10-year mission featuring several flybys and eventually deploying two orbiters in 2025 for local study. The asteroid sampling mission Hayabusa2 reached its target Ryugu in June, and the similar OSIRIS-REx probe will reach Bennu in December.\n\nChina will launch its Chang'e 4 lander/rover in December to attempt the first ever soft landing on the far side of the Moon; a communications relay was sent to the second Earth-Moon Lagrange point in May. The Google Lunar X Prize expired on 31 March without a winner for its $20 million grand prize, because none of its five finalist teams were able to launch a commercial lunar lander mission before the deadline.\n\nAfter a failed launch in 2017, the Electron rocket reached orbit with its second flight in January; manufactured by Rocket Lab, it is the first orbital rocket equipped with electric pump-fed engines. On 3 February, the Japanese SS-520-5 rocket (a modified sounding rocket) successfully delivered a 3U CubeSat to orbit, thus becoming the lightest and smallest orbital launch vehicle ever. On 6 February, SpaceX performed the much-delayed test flight of Falcon Heavy, carrying a car and a mannequin to a heliocentric orbit beyond Mars. Falcon Heavy is the most powerful rocket currently operational.\n\nThe global activity of the launch industry grew significantly in 2018. 75 launches were conducted in the first nine months, compared with 63 in the same time in 2017, a 19% increase. In August, China surpassed its previous record of 22 launches in 2016, and is on track to perform 38 to 40 launches over the full year. On 29 November, the 98th launch of the year occurred, a level of activity last seen in 1992, and 21 launches remained scheduled until year end.\n\n \n\n \n\nFor the purposes of this section, the yearly tally of orbital launches by country assigns each flight to the country of origin of the rocket, not to the launch services provider or the spaceport. For example, Soyuz launches by Arianespace in Kourou are counted under Russia because Soyuz-2 is a Russian rocket.\n"}
{"id": "29407412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29407412", "title": "Acefest", "text": "Acefest\n\nACEFEST (American Cinematic Experience Film Festival - formerly known as the ACE Film Festival) is a film festival first held in 2007 in New York City. The festival focuses purely on showcasing domestic films \"in an effort to strengthen and promote pride in American independent cinema\".\n\nThe festival screens premieres of American video art, animation, short films, student films, documentaries and feature films. Band performances, interactive media showcases, games, contests and giveaways are also held.\n\nThe 2009 ACEFEST took place July 10–11, 2009, at Tribeca Cinemas in Manhattan's Financial District. While the event was a scaled down iteration of the typically three- to four-day event, it was the fest's most successful to date.\n\n\n\nThe 2008 ACE Film Festival took place from September 4 to the 7th 2008, at New World Stages, 343 West 49th Street, down the street from world-famous Times Square. ACEFest's longtime supporter, New York Foundation for the Arts, held the honor of being the official presenter of that year's event. NYFA, a non-for-profit organization, has supported emerging filmmakers since 1976 and offers a wide variety of programs, including Fiscal Sponsorship, Artists' Fellowships, and NYFA Source.\n\nThe final programming included 40 films of all genres and lengths, including video art, animation, music videos, documentaries, and narrative-based shorts and feature-length films. Of all of those, 4 were World Premieres, 10 were East Coast Premieres, and 12 were New York City Premieres.\n\n\n\nThe inaugural ACE Film Festival took place from August 24 to 26 at the Broad Street Ballroom, 41 Broad Street, right in the center of Manhattan's Financial District and in close proximity to the New York Stock Exchange. One of the upper floors on the venue was transformed into \"Club Ace\", a networking lounge where a variety of activities took place.The independent director Caveh Zahedi, was a guest speaker.\n\nA portion of the festival's ticket proceeds were donated to the New York Foundation for the Arts in an effort to support its efforts in \"spreading the gift of creativity.\" The festival was also part of the River to River Festival, the \"largest annual cultural and arts event in New York City's history.\"\n\nAmong the films screened was Robert Liano's and Tom Coppola's \"A Broad Way\", a documentary film shot over the period of one hour by more than 400 filmmakers, dispersed along 258 blocks of New York City's famous Broadway.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "309452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=309452", "title": "Adverse selection", "text": "Adverse selection\n\nAdverse selection is a term commonly used in economics, insurance, and risk management that describes a situation where market participation is affected by asymmetric information. When buyers and sellers have different information, it is known as a state of asymmetric information. Traders with better private information about the quality of a product will selectively participate in trades which benefit them the most, at the expense of the other trader. A textbook example is Akerlof's market for lemons.\n\nThe party without the information is worried about an unfair (\"rigged\") trade, which occurs when the party who has all the information uses it to their advantage. The fear of rigged trade can prompt the worried party to withdraw from the interaction, diminishing the volume of trade in the market. This can cause a knock-on effect and the unraveling of the market. An additional implication of this potential for market collapse is that it can work as an entry deterrence that leads to high margins without additional entry.\n\nBuyers sometimes have better information about how much benefit they can extract from a service. For example, an all-you-can-eat buffet restaurant that sets one price for all customers risks being adversely selected against by high appetite and hence, the least profitable customers. The restaurant has no way of knowing whether a given customer has a high or low appetite. The customer is the only one who knows if they have a high or low appetite. In this case the high appetite customers are more likely to use the information they have and to go to the restaurant.\n\nIn this case, the seller suffering from adverse selection can protect himself by screening customers or by identifying credible signals of appetite. Some examples of this phenomenon occur in signaling games and screening games.\n\nAn example where the buyer is adversely selected against is in financial markets. A company is more likely to offer stock when managers privately know that the current stock price exceeds the fundamental value of the firm. Uninformed investors rationally demand a premium to participate in the equity offer. While this example functions as a good hypothetical example of the buyer being adversely selected against, in reality the market can know that the managers are selling stocks (perhaps in required company reports). The market price of stocks will then reflect the information that managers are selling stocks.\n\nAdverse selection is related to the concept of moral hazard. Where adverse selection describes a situation where the \"type\" of product is hidden from one party in a transaction, moral hazard describes a situation where there is a hidden \"action\" that results from the transaction. For example, the concept of moral hazard suggests that customers who have insurance may be more likely to behave recklessly than those who do not have insurance.\n\nThe term \"adverse selection\" was originally used in insurance. It describes a situation where an individual's demand for insurance is positively correlated with the individual's risk of loss.\n\nThis can be illustrated by the link between smoking status and mortality. Non-smokers typically live longer than smokers. If a life insurance company does not vary prices according to smoking status, its life insurance will be more valuable for smokers than for non-smokers. Smokers will have greater incentives to buy insurance from that company and will purchase insurance in larger amounts than non-smokers. As smokers are at higher risk of early death due to their smoking status, and more smokers than non smokers will purchase life insurance, the average mortality rate increases. This increase means the insurer will spend more on policy payments, leading to losses.\n\nIn response, the company may increase premiums. However, higher prices cause rational non-smoking customers to cancel their insurance. The higher prices combined with their lower risk of mortality make life insurance uneconomic for non-smokers. This can exacerbate the adverse selection problem. As more smokers take out life insurance policies and increase the insurer's mortality rate, its prices will continue to rise, which in turn will mean fewer non-smokers will purchase insurance. Eventually, the higher prices will push out all non-smokers and the insurer will also be unwilling to sell to smokers. No more interactions will take place, and the life insurance market will collapse.\n\nTo counter the effects of adverse selection, insurers may offer premiums that are proportional to a customer's risk. The insurer screens customers to distinguish high-risk individuals from low-risk individuals. For instance, medical insurance companies ask a range of questions and may request medical or other reports on individuals who apply to buy insurance. The premium can be varied accordingly and any unreasonably high-risk individuals are rejected. This risk selection process is one part of underwriting. In many countries, insurance law incorporates an \"utmost good faith\" or \"uberrima fides\" doctrine, which requires potential customers to answer any questions asked by the insurer fully and honestly. Dishonesty may be met with refusals to pay claims.\n\nEmpirical evidence of adverse selection is mixed. Several studies investigating correlations between risk and insurance purchase have failed to show the predicted positive correlation for life insurance, auto insurance, and health insurance. On the other hand, \"positive\" test results for adverse selection have been reported in health insurance, long-term care insurance, and annuity markets.\n\nWeak evidence of adverse selection in certain markets suggests that the underwriting process is effective at screening high-risk individuals. Another possible reason is the negative correlation between risk aversion (such as the willingness to purchase insurance) and risk level (estimated beforehand based on hindsight observation of the occurrence rate for other observed claims) in the population. If risk aversion is higher among lower-risk customers, adverse selection can be reduced or even reversed, leading to \"advantageous\" selection. This occurs when a person is both less likely to engage in risk-increasing behavior are more likely to engage in risk-decreasing behavior, such as taking affirmative steps to reduce risk.\n\nFor example, there is evidence that smokers are more willing to do risky jobs than non-smokers. This greater willingness to accept risk may reduce insurance policy purchases by smokers.\n\nFrom a public policy viewpoint, some adverse selection can also be advantageous. Adverse selection may lead to a higher fraction of total losses for the whole population being covered by insurance than if there were no adverse selection.\n\nWhen raising capital, some types of securities are more prone to adverse selection than others. An equity offering for a company that reliably generates earnings at a good price will be bought up before an unknown company's offering, leaving the market filled with less desirable offerings that were unwanted by other investors. Assuming that managers have inside information about the firm, outsiders are most prone to adverse selection in equity offers. This is because managers may offer stock when they know the offer price exceeds their private assessments of the company's value. Outside investors therefore require a high rate of return on equity to compensate them for the risk of buying a \"lemon\".\n\nAdverse selection costs are lower for debt offerings. When debt is offered, outside investors infer that managers believe the current stock price is undervalued. Managers would otherwise be keen on offering equity.\n\nThus the required returns on debt and equity are related to perceived adverse selection costs, implying that debt should be cheaper than equity as a source of external capital, forming a \"pecking order\" .\n\nThis example assumes that the market does not knows managers are selling stock. The market could possess this information, perhaps finding it in company reports. In this case, the market will capitalize on the information found in company reports. If the market has access to the company's information, there is no longer a state of adverse selection.\n\nIn modern contract theory, the term \"adverse selection\" is simply used to categorize principal-agent models in which an agent has private information already \"before\" a contract is written. For example, a worker may know his effort costs (or a buyer may know his willingness-to-pay) \"before\" an employer (or a seller) makes a contract offer. In contrast, the term \"moral hazard\" is used for principal-agent models, where there is symmetric information at the time of contracting. The agent may become privately informed \"after\" the contract is written. According to Hart and Holmström (1987), moral hazard models are further subdivided into hidden action and hidden information models, depending on whether the agent becomes privately informed due to an unobservable action that he himself chooses or due to a random move by nature. Hence, the difference between an adverse selection model and a hidden information (sometimes called hidden knowledge) model is simply the timing. In the former case, the agent is informed at the outset. In the latter case, he becomes privately informed after the contract has been signed.\n\nAdverse selection models can be further categorized in models with private values and models with interdependent or common values. In models with private values, the agent's type has a direct influence on his own preferences. For example, he has knowledge over his effort costs or his willingness-to-pay. Alternatively, models with interdependent or common values occur when the agent's type has a direct influence on the principal's preferences. For instance, the agent may be a seller who privately knows the quality of a car.\n\nSeminal contributions to private value models have been made by Roger Myerson and Eric Maskin, while interdependent or common value models have first been studied by George Akerlof. Adverse selection models with private values can also be further categorized by distinguishing between models with one-sided private information and two-sided private information. The most prominent result in the latter case is the Myerson-Satterthwaite theorem. More recently, contract-theoretic adverse selection models have been tested both in laboratory experiments and in the field.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7839778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7839778", "title": "Aero GP", "text": "Aero GP\n\nThree primary disciplines in series decide the annual \"World Champion Flying Ace\":\n\nAir Racing: All racing at the same time, between six and eight aircraft reach speeds of 500 km/h at just 10 metres above the racecourse.\n\nAir Combat: A real air-to-air “dogfight”. Pilots take to the skies in an attempt to outmanoeuvre, hunt down and shoot each other out of the sky, in the style of military air combat.\n\nBarnstorming: A third element which can consist of any of the following - depending on the venue: aerobatics, stunt flying or precision target dropping - pilots drop bombs from their aircraft at low altitude, aiming at various targets.\n\nThe first Aero GP was held in 2005 although the concept dates to 2000. The inaugural event, held in Slovenia, was televised in over 100 countries. Since then Aero GP's have been held in Malta, Romania (twice), The United Kingdom, and Abu Dhabi in the UAE.\n\nAero GP pilots have backgrounds in flying a range of military and aerobatic aircraft. They come from a variety of countries and backgrounds. Fighter pilots, aerobatics champions, and civil aviation pilots are all known to compete. They are put through tremendous amounts of G-Force when performing in their aircraft.\n\n Andy Bickmore \n\nThe series consisted of two Aero GP's. June saw the Aero GP team return to Constanta in Romania and this was followed by a second round in Blackpool, UK.\n\nThe 2009 series sees Aero GP visit the Middle East for the first time. Aero GP will be headlining the Al Ain air show in the United Arab Emirates between January 29–31. There are multiple other venues being discussed for 2009 and these will be announced in the new year.\n\nDuring the Malta show on 10 September 2006, two planes, an Extra EA-200 and a Yakovlev Yak-55, collided just outside Marsamxett Harbour off Valletta. The Swedish pilot of the Yak-55, aerobatics champion Gabor Varga, died instantly. However, the Irish Extra 200 pilot, Eddie Goggins, suffered only minor injuries and was soon released after the crash.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24596105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24596105", "title": "Barack the Barbarian", "text": "Barack the Barbarian\n\nBarack the Barbarian is a comic book series published by Devil's Due Publishing beginning in June 2009. It was written by Larry Hama, with art by Christopher Schons.\n\n\"Barack the Barbarian\" originally appeared in a four-issue mini-series. The story features the 44th President of the United States, Barack Obama as a Conan the Barbarian-style figure. It also features other politicians like Sarah Palin, George W. Bush, and Dick Cheney in fictional roles.\n\nThe series was followed by a one-shot, \"The Fall of Red Sarah\".\n\nIn November 2008, one of Obama's advisers gave an interview to journalist Jon Swaine of The Daily Telegraph titled, \"Barack Obama: The 50 facts you might not know\". In the interview, it emerged that Obama collects \"Conan the Barbarian\".\n\nThe idea for the series originated with Devil's Due publisher Josh Blaylock who explained that \"We didn't want to be completely slapsticky. It is definitely partly a gimmick, but we wanted to do something clever with [the Obama comics trend].\" He contacted Larry Hama with his idea for a series called \"Obama the Barbarian\", and Hama described how the idea developed during the course of the phonecall:\n\nThe writer has said it is more than just a political satire: \"I just think of it as sword and sorcery, only the characters look really familiar.\"\n\nThe comic books are being collected into a trade paperback:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6143926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6143926", "title": "Burning of Jaffna Public Library", "text": "Burning of Jaffna Public Library\n\nThe burning of the Jaffna Public Library (, \"Yāḻ potu nūlakam erippu\") was an important event in the Sri Lankan civil war. An organized mob of Sinhalese origin went on a rampage on the night of June 1, 1981, burning the library. It was one of the most violent examples of ethnic biblioclasm of the 20th century. At the time of its destruction, the library was one of the biggest in Asia, containing over 97,000 books and manuscripts.\n\nThe library was built in many stages starting from 1933, from a modest beginning as a private collection. Soon, with the help of primarily local citizens, it became a full-fledged library. The library also became a repository of archival material written in palm leaf manuscripts, original copies of regionally important historic documents in the contested political history of Sri Lanka and newspapers that were published hundreds of years ago in the Jaffna peninsula. It thus became a place of historic and symbolic importance to all Sri Lankans.\n\nEventually the first major wing of the library was opened in 1959 by then Jaffna mayor Alfred Duraiappah. The architect of the Indo-Saracenic style building was S. Narasimhan from Madras, India. Prominent Indian librarian S.R. Ranganathan served as an advisor to ensure that the library was built to international standards. The library became the pride of the local people as even researchers from India and other countries began to use it for their research purposes.\n\nOn Sunday May 31, 1981, the Tamil United Liberation Front (TULF), a regionally popular democratic party, held a rally in which three majority Sinhalese policeman were shot and two killed.\n\nThat night police and paramilitaries began a pogrom that lasted for three days. The head office of TULF party was destroyed. The Jaffna MP V. Yogeswaran's residence was also destroyed.\n\nFour people were pulled from their homes and killed at random. Many business establishments and a local Hindu temple were also deliberately destroyed.\n\nOn the night of June 1, according to many eyewitnesses, police and government-sponsored paramilitias set fire to the Jaffna public library and destroyed it completely. Over 97,000 volumes of books along with numerous culturally important and irreplaceable manuscripts were destroyed. Among the destroyed items were scrolls of historical value and the works and manuscripts of philosopher, artist and author Ananda Coomaraswamy and prominent intellectual Prof. Dr. Isaac Thambiah. The destroyed articles included memoirs and works of writers and dramatists who made a significant contribution toward the sustenance of the Tamil culture, and those of locally reputed physicians and politicians.\n\nThe office of the \"Eelanaadu,\" a local newspaper, was also destroyed. Statues of Tamil cultural and religious figures were destroyed or defaced.\n\nNancy Murray wrote in a journal article in 1984 that several high-ranking security officers and two cabinet ministers were present in the town of Jaffna, when uniformed security men and plainclothes mob carried out organized acts of destruction. After 20 years the government-owned \"Daily News\" newspaper, in an editorial in 2001, termed the 1981 event an act by \"goon squads let loose by the then government\".\n\nTwo cabinet ministers, who saw the destruction of government and private properties from the verandah of the Jaffna Rest House (a government owned hotel), claimed that the incident was \n\nThe national newspapers did not report the incident. In subsequent parliamentary debates some majority Sinhalese members told minority Tamil politicians that if Tamils were unhappy in Sri Lanka, they should leave for their 'homeland' in India. A direct quote from a United National Party member is \n\n- Mr. W.J.M. Lokubandara, M.P. in Sri Lanka's Parliament, July 1981.\n\nOf all the destruction in Jaffna city, it was the destruction of the Jaffna Public Library that was the incident which appeared to cause the most distress to the people of Jaffna. Twenty years later, the mayor of Jaffna Nadarajah Raviraj still grieved at the recollection of the flames he saw as a University student.\n\nFor Tamils the devastated library became a symbol of \"physical and imaginative violence\". The attack was seen as an assault on their aspirations, the value of learning and traditions of academic achievement. The attack also became the rallying point for Tamil rebels to promote the idea to the Tamil populace that their race was targeted for annihilation.\n\nIn 1991 the then president of Sri Lanka Ranasinghe Premadasa publicly proclaimed that\n\nHe was accusing his political opponents within his UNP party, Lalith Athulathmudali and Gamini Dissanayake, who had just brought an impeachment motion against him, as directly involved in the burning of the library in 1981.\n\nIn 2006 the President of Sri Lanka Mahinda Rajapakse was quoted as saying,\n\nHe was also further quoted as saying in reference to a prominent local Tamil poet, reminding the audience that\n\nHe concluded in that speech that as a cumulative effect of all these atrocities, the peaceful voice of the Tamils is now drowned in the echo of the gun; referring to the rebel LTTE's terrorism.\n\nIn 2016, Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe as the leader of the United National Party apologized for the burning of the Library which happened during an UNP government. He was interrupted by the shouting of Joint Opposition MPs for which he claimed\n\nAccording to Orville H. Schell, Chairman of the Americas Watch Committee, and Head of Amnesty International's 1982 fact-finding mission to Sri Lanka, the UNP government at that time did not institute an independent investigation to establish responsibility for these killings in May and June 1981 and take measures against those responsible. although no one has been indicted for the crimes yet.\n\nIn 1982, one year after the initial destruction, the community sponsored Jaffna Public Library Week and collected thousands of books. Repairs on parts of the building were in progress when the Black July pogrom-induced civil conflict began in 1983. By 1984, the library was fully renovated; however, the library was damaged by bullets and bombs. The military forces were stationed in the Dutch fort and the rebels positioned themselves inside the library creating a no man's land as the fighting intensified. In 1985, after an attack on a nearby police station by Tamil rebels, soldiers entered the partially restored building and set off bombs that shredded thousands of books yet again. The library was abandoned with its shell and bullet-pocked walls, blackened with the smoke of burnt books.\n\nAs an effort to win back the confidence of the Tamil people and also to mollify international opinion, in 1998 under president Chandrika Kumaratunga, the government began the process to rebuild it with contributions from all Sri Lankans and foreign governments.\nApproximately US $1 million was spent and over 25,000 books were collected. By 2001 the replacement building was complete but the 2003 reopening of the rebuilt library was opposed by the rebel LTTE. This led all twenty-one members of the Jaffna municipal council, led by Mayor Sellan Kandian, to tender their resignation as a protest against the pressure exerted on them to postpone the reopening.\nEventually the library was opened to the public.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41322043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41322043", "title": "Commemoration of the American Civil War", "text": "Commemoration of the American Civil War\n\nThe commemoration of the American Civil War is based on the memories of the Civil War that Americans have shaped according to their political, social and cultural circumstances and needs, starting with the Gettysburg Address and the dedication of the Gettysburg cemetery in 1863. Confederates, both veterans and women, were especially active in forging the myth of the Lost Cause of the Confederacy.\n\nMost of the war dead are buried at Arlington National Cemetery and other national cemeteries near the battle zones. Memorial Day (or \"Decoration Day\") originated shortly after the American Civil War to commemorate the Union and Confederate soldiers who died in the Civil War. The Confederates set up a different day at first but then merged it into the national holiday. By the 20th century, Memorial Day had been extended to honor all Americans who have died while in the military service.\n\nThe \"Lost Cause\" is the literary and intellectual movement that sought to reconcile the traditional white society of the South to the defeat of their new nation. Gallagher and Nolan say:\n\nThe death of General Ulysses S. Grant in 1885 was the occasion for commemoration. A funeral train carried the body to New York City, where a quarter of a million people viewed in the two days prior to the funeral. His pallbearers included Union Generals William Tecumseh Sherman and Philip Sheridan, Confederate Generals Simon Bolivar Buckner and Joseph E. Johnston, Admiral David Dixon Porter, and John A. Logan, the head of the GAR. His body was laid to rest in the General Grant National Memorial (\"Grant's Tomb\"), the largest mausoleum in North America. Attendance at the New York funeral topped 1.5 million. Ceremonies were held in other major cities around the country.\n\nThe Gettysburg battlefield, dedicated by President Lincoln who presented his iconic Gettysburg Address there in November 1863, contains hundreds of memorials to the regiments that fought there. Army veterans created the Gettysburg Battlefield Memorial Association in 1864, making it one of the earliest historic preservation organizations in the U.S. The battlefield is under the control of the national park Service and is a major tourist destination.\n\nThe Lincoln Memorial in Washington was dedicated in 1922. It has become one of the most visited war memorials. It has been the site of many famous celebrations of freedom, most notably and Martin Luther King's 1963 \"I Have a Dream\" speech.\n\nThe shadow of ongoing conflict during the Civil Rights Movement affected implementation of the 100-year commemorative activities. Neither Congress nor President Dwight D. Eisenhower were interested in a risking debate over single, unified, national theme for the commemoration, so the official interpretive work was carried out by the various state commissions.\n\nAt the national Commission, key members urged different priorities. Emory University Professor Bell I. Wiley recommended a major effort to document and preserving information from historic letters, newspapers and public documents. Ulysses S. Grant III, the first chairman, wanted to emphasize large-scale events that appealed to the public, such as \"sham battles\" or reenactments. Businessman Karl Betts, the first executive director of the Commission, looked for ways it could spur economic development. They all agreed on a Cold War consensus to the effect that all good Americans were ideologically united, with the result that potentially divisive civil rights issues were not emphasized. The National Park Service was in overall charge; it wanted Congress to appropriate more money to re-landscape and interpret major battlefields along traditional lines. The Post Office issued a series of noncontroversial commemorative stamps to mark the centennial.\n\nThe state commissions took a sectional perspective, using different key words and phrases to reflect their viewpoints, and sponsored and encouraged different public memorials and activities. Segregation was still in effect but it was under heavy attack by the Civil Rights Movement. The Southern states presented their official view that the infrastructure of Jim Crow and segregation was an organic reflection of a distinctive Southern \"way of life.\" Many white Southerners responded with enthusiasm to invitations to celebrate their heritage, which they saw as one of courage on the battlefield and continuity afterwards. For the first time, many Americans, especially white Southerners, volunteered or were recruited into historical reenactment groups that performed pageants and re-creations of Civil War battles, field maneuvers, and encampments.\n\n2011 marked the 150th anniversary of the beginning of the American Civil War. Many in the American South attempted to incorporate both black history and white perspectives. A Harris Poll given in March 2011 suggested that Americans were still uniquely divided over the results and appropriate memorials to acknowledge the occasion. While traditionally American films of the Civil War feature \"brother versus brother\" themes, film treatments of the war are evolving to include African American characters. Benard Simelton, president of the Alabama NAACP, said celebrating the Civil War is like celebrating the \"Holocaust\". In reference to slavery, Simelton said that black \"rights were taken away\" and that blacks \"were treated as less than human beings.\"\n\nAcknowledging the need for an internet presence, the National Park Service launched a website about the 150th anniversary and Civil War history featuring a list of NPS events, as well as creating several digital humanities projects. These projects included databases of soldiers, cemeteries, and Medals of Honor awarded; an interactive time line of Civil War events, and a Twitter account featuring the daily accounts of a fictional Civil War newspaper reporter. The NPS and local governments hoped that the sesquicentennial would increase visitation to Civil War battlefield site, and generate revenue. Spotsylvania County made about $68,000 off of the special events for the Battle of Chancellorsville, which it considered insufficient, considering the effort.\n\nIn honor of the 150th anniversary, the exhibits at the Chancellorsville Visitors Center got a $1.6 million upgrade. The original Visitors Center was originally completed to coincide with both the 100th anniversary of the Civil War and the 50th anniversary of the birth of the National Park Service. The new exhibit will reflect current research and scholarship. The National Park Service intends to create a contemplative space focusing on the sacrifices of those that fought in the war.\n\nSeveral park superintendents have been awarded the Appleman-Jude-Lewis Award for their efforts in commemorating the 150th anniversary of the American Civil War. Eight park service employees received the award, recognizing their work in \"preserving the nation's cultural resources\"\n\nThe National Park Service's social media team was commended by a local newspaper for their photojournalism coverage of the Battle of Chancellorsville.\n\nIn spite of the ongoing popularity of the war, there is no national commission to commemorate this sesquicentennial. The Civil War Sesquicentennial Commission Act, from the 107th, 108th, 109th 110th, 111th, 112th Congress all died in committee after being sent for review from other sub/committees. What all these acts have in common for the Civil War Sesquicentennial was to establish a commission to commemorate the sesquicentennial of the American Civil War, and a grant program. This Grant program would have appropriated $3,500,000.00 to the National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH) for grants for activities relating to the Sesquicentennial Civil War, but NEH is not directly sponsoring any Sesquicentennial projects. State humanities councils may sponsor their own sesquicentennial activities, partly using unrestricted funds that are given to each state by NEH.\n\nNational Park Service Budget Justification does not include any direct federal funding for the Civil War Sesquicentennial from FY 2008 through FY 2014.\nFY 2014 budget of $2.6 Billion,\nFY 2013 budget of $2.6 Billion,\nFY 2012 budget of $2.9 billion,\nFY 2011 budget of $2.7 billion,\nFY 2010 budget of $2.7 billion,\nFY 2008 budget of $2.364 billion,\nFY 2007 budget of $2.156 billion,\nFY 2006 budget of $2.249 billion.\n\nThe Civil War Battlefield Preservation Program (established 1999) utilizes government matching grants and private funds to permanently protect Civil War battlefields that are not within national park boundaries. When the Interior Appropriations bill for FY 2010 is passed later this week it will include $9 million for the federal Civil War Battlefield Preservation Program (CWBPP). This money, the largest single-year allocation the program has ever received, will come from the federal Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF). Grants totaling $10 million a year are authorized through 2013 (as per the 2009 A BPP authorization (16 U.S.C 46 9k–1)).\n\nThe Arkansas Civil War Sesquicentennial Commission has established a matching fund grant program for up to $2,000.00 for local commemoration of the Civil War in Arkansas.\n\nThe Connecticut Civil War Commemoration Commission does not have a grant program, but does have a list of organizational Partners.\n\nThe Civil War Sesquicentennial Planning Committee & Delaware Heritage Commission show no direct grants or funding for the Civil War Sesquicentennial.\n\nGeorgia's Civil War Sesquicentennial website was created by the Tourism Division of the Georgia Department of Economic Development as part of the state's efforts to commemorate the 150th anniversary of the Civil War. This website does not talk about any grant program, but does have a partner website.\n\nThe Illinois Civil War 150th Anniversary lists grant making partners but does not show a specific funding or grant program directly for the Civil War Sesquicentennial.\n\nThe Iowa Civil War Sesquicentennial Committee website does not show any funding or grant program directly for the Civil War Sesquicentennial.\n\nThe Kentucky Civil War Sesquicentennial Commission is creating Civil War heritage tourism development opportunities, educating students, training teachers, developing initiatives for new scholarship and encouraging events and activities across the commonwealth, but does not show any funding or grant program directly for the Civil War Sesquicentennial.\n\nThe Maine Civil War Sesquicentennial site is hard to navigate and no signs of any funding or grant program directly for the Civil War Sesquicentennial.\n\nCivil War Sesquicentennial Resources site gives no signs of any funding or grant program directly for the Civil War Sesquicentennial.\n\nMichigan Civil War Sesquicentennial Committee does not show any funding or grant program directly for the Civil War Sesquicentennial.\n\nThe Mississippi Sesquicentennial of the American Civil War Commission site does not show any funding or grant program directly for the Civil War Sesquicentennial.\n\nThe Missouri Civil War Sesquicentennial Commission purpose is to increase awareness and understanding of Missouri's role in the Civil War but does not show any funding or grant program directly for the Civil War Sesquicentennial.\n\nNew Jersey Civil War Sesquicentennial Committee does not show any funding or grant program directly for the Civil War Sesquicentennial.\n\nNew York State Civil War Sesquicentennial Committee does not show any funding or grant program directly for the Civil War Sesquicentennial.\n\nThe North Carolina Civil War Sesquicentennial Committee does not show any funding or grant program directly for the Civil War Sesquicentennial.\n\nCivil War 150 Advisory Committee does not show any funding or grant program directly for the Civil War Sesquicentennial.\n\nPennsylvania Civil War 150 (PACW 150) is the official statewide program commemorating the 150th anniversary of the Civil War, 2011–2015, which does not show any funding or grant program directly for the Civil War Sesquicentennial.\n\nThe South Carolina Civil War Sesquicentennial Advisory Board does not show any funding or grant program directly for the Civil War Sesquicentennial.\n\nThe Tennessee Civil War Sesquicentennial Commission was created to lead the state's efforts in commemorating the 150th anniversary of the Civil War does not show any funding or grant program directly for the Civil War Sesquicentennial.\n\nThe Virginia Sesquicentennial of the American Civil War Commission has a tax-deductible donation to support the Civil War's 150 year. The Virginia Sesquicentennial of the American Civil War Commission (the Commission) and the Virginia Tourism Corporation (VTC) have created a special American Civil War Sesquicentennial Tourism Marketing Program that has a grant program for a 1 to 1 match up to $5,000.00 in promoting the observance of the 150th anniversary of the American Civil War.\n\nWest Virginia Sesquicentennial of the American Civil War Commission's mission is to promote awareness, but does not show any funding or grant program directly for the Civil War Sesquicentennial.\n\nThe Wisconsin Civil War Sesquicentennial Commission site does not show any funding or grant program directly for the Civil War Sesquicentennial.\n\nUlysses S. Grant National Historic Site. According to Historian Pam Sanfilippo \"Historical societies, museums, and the NPS are all facing cuts in funding regardless of whether they are government or privately run.'\n\nReenactments are a scripted form of educational or entertainment activity in which participants follow a prearranged plan to reconstruct aspects of an event or period which can include living histories, museum exhibits, plays, television, film, travelogues and historiographies.\n\nThe first major re-enactment took place at the 1913 Gettysburg reunion.\n\nA century later at the Battle of Gettysburg 150th anniversary commemoration from June 28, 2013 to July 7, 2013 came the largest historical reenactment in the United States. There were approximately 12,000 re-enactors from around the world, over 200,000 spectators, 400 Gettysburg Anniversary Committee workers and nearly 500 reporters that attended the sesquicentennial. This 10-day event in a town of 7,800 people is thought to have brought in over $100 million in economic revenue.\n\nReenactments for the American Civil War Sesquicentennial are not that much different from reenactments that have taken place in previous years. Most state that they are doing something extra for the 150th anniversary by adding more special events, more re-enactors, or extending the days they are open. However, despite the fanfare of the 150th anniversary, many of the Sesquicentennial Reenactments are very similar in size and organization to the reenactments held in previous years. The American Civil War reenactments incorporate more than just tactical movements of the specific battle being portrayed. The reenactments taking place are part of a larger living history that is put forth to transport the general public back to the Civil War era. Re-enactors of all backgrounds take part in portraying battles, life in camp, and life as a woman at reenactment events. Most reenactments incorporate an opening ceremony, a ladies tea, Union and Confederate Camps to explore, period appropriate sutlers (vendors), field hospitals, bands, military and Cavalry drills, and the actual battle reenactment. Because the war spanned five years the 150th anniversary reenactments are spread out not only across the country but across time as well, taking place from 2011 through 2015.\n\nBecause \"current NPS policy does not allow for battle reenactments (simulated combat with opposing lines and casualties) on NPS property,\" many reenactments take place on private lands such as Boy Scout campgrounds and privately run parks rather than Historic Battlegrounds. However the National Park Service does make an exception regarding Gettysburg; most other sites for the Sesquicentennial are strictly living history sites. These living history sites still include re-enactors, just not full battle demonstrations.\n\nFunding for the sesquicentennial reenactments comes from mainly private sources. Most are local communities starting organizations such as the Gettysburg Anniversary Committee (GAC) formed in 1995 specifically to \"promote and host the annual reenactment of the Battle of Gettysburg.\" Other, smaller reenactments are funded by corporate donations and local charities. For the Sesquicentennial these smaller events are hoping to raise more sponsors for the added traffic organizers are expecting.\n\nThe major clash between the NPS and local reenactment groups is the NPS policy prohibiting re-enactors from portraying opposing lines of battle as well as simulating casualties and deaths. The park service believes that the best way to honor those who died is to remember them in dedication ceremonies, not recreating their deaths. It cites safety as another main reason for leaving out reenactments, stating the black gunpowder used is volatile and can be dangerous to re-enactors as well as spectators. The NPS believes that the story of the American Civil War can be told accurately without the use of dangerous reenactments. Instead, the National Park Service leans heavily on re-enactors for living history events. The NPS is also conscious of the resources wasted in putting on full-scale reenactments.\n\nRe-enactors, who are generally amateur history enthusiasts, understand the safety concerns regarding black powder at their events and feel they do a good job at keeping the public safe by using specific spectator areas. The fundamental issue for the re-enactors, especially for the 150th anniversary, is their belief that the best way to honor the fallen is by educating the public in the horrors that these men faced. In their view, the best way to do that is through battle reenactments and their attention to detail is a sign of respect for those who died.\n\nThe involvement of Black troops during the war is undisputed, however their re-enactors have been missing from events such as battle reenactments, parades, and ceremonies since the first anniversary of the war. However, in the decades leading up to the sesquicentennial there has been an increasing amount of portrayal of what were called during the Civil War, \"Colored Troops\" in reenactments, representing soldiers for both the North and the South. This surge of interest in the Civil War by the African-American community is partially attributed to the 1989 movie \"Glory\".\n\nAs the number of African American re-enactors grows the number of educational events including them grow as well. For the 150th anniversary many events have been included to incorporate this new group of re-enactors, making the history more complete. Many black regiments participated in 2011 kicking off the sesquicentennial. Their reasons for participation are just as varied and personal as their white counterparts.\n\nThe African American Civil War Memorial Freedom Foundation's charter organization is the Sons and Daughters of United States Colored Troops (USCT). In the Sesquicentennial period of April 2011 through May 2015, this site lists reenactments that are occurring that may include members of the USCT re-enactors. Of these planned re-enactments are the May 22–25, 2014 Fight or Freedom at Eastern Virginia sites of Fort Pocahontas at Wilson's Wharf along the James River where in of May 24, 1864, 2500 Confederate troops attacked a contingent of 1400 USCT who more than ably held their own. The Confederates were repulsed once additional Union forces arrived with the Southern troops taking a 5:1 ratio casualty loss.\n23rd Regiment United States Colored Troops(USCT) are \"the first colored soldiers to fight in combat against the Confederate army of Northern Virginia on May 15, 1864 during the battle of Spotsylvania Courthouse.\" Descendants and all interested parties of the history of this fighting group are invited to an organizational meeting of commemoration in January 2012. Finding a positive response, a nucleus of would be re-enactors begins meeting at John J. Wright Civil War Museum in Spotsylvania, Virginia. Monthly gatherings for history lectures on the USCT and the Civil War are often preludes to organizational plans for the formal Presentations of the Colors at historic gatherings, at Cemetery memorials and as a part of Living History Days wearing the full regalia of a 23rd Regiment USCT soldier, circa 1864. These meetings and photos of the public displays are catalogued on the 23rd Regiment Facebook page. Actual re-enactments are on May 19 and 20, 2012 for The Battle of Spotsylvania Courthouse; on October 13, 2012 with an encampment at the Appomattox Court House National Historical Park, Virginia; on Memorial Day weekend in 2013 joining 3rd U.S. Regulars and the 13th Virginia Infantry as NPS honor guards at the Fredericksburg National Cemetery, Fredericksburg, Virginia.\n\nThe idea of women re-enactors on the battlefield can be a touchy subject as not all women want to play the role of a nurse or local civilian; roles that are needed mainly for living history events. Women who want to play a combat roles (which was indeed played by a few women in disguise in the 1860s), find themselves up against history and the men who lead local Civil War Reenactment Regiments. The men who exclude women from their organizations cite historical accuracy as the main reason why women are excluded from their reenactments. However, Nina Brands argues that they are being more hypocritical than they realize. She says that re-enactors are much heavier than historic soldiers, but women are about the right size. Since 2011, the reenactment community is slowly beginning to open its ranks for female recruits in the sesquicentennial.\n\nDual reenactments happened at both Antietam (2012) and Gettysburg (2013) to commemorate the 150th anniversary of the Civil War. Dual reenactments tend to create divisions among the hobby's progressive, mainstream and farb re-enactors. They also create confusion about the events' dates, times and registration periods. While neither reenactment committee is fighting the other, dual reenactments tend to distract from the entire celebration at hand and creates animosity within re-enacting regiments. Spectators offered less argumentative problems but insisted that Gettysburg's tourism bureau endorse a specific reenactment. One reenactment is attempting to display historical accuracy, while the other is putting on a show for the spectators. Both are presented by two completely different entities looking to establish themselves as both educational and entertaining. Most re-enactment regiments vote as a group on which reenactment they feel best fits the unit; this is based on the type reenactment, the authenticity, registration and ticket price and the destination of the profits.\n\nAcademic and independent institutions commemorate the Sesquicentennial of the American Civil War (ACW) in their own manner. Some host memorial gatherings on the grounds of former slave communities; others hold community action street festivals incorporating education, musical presentations and social action job fairs and health clinics while still others arrange lecture series blending issues of the ACW with contemporary racial concerns.\n\nNoted documentarian Ken Burns has been working on a project to commemorate the Gettysburg Address given by Abraham Lincoln four months after the battle at Gettysburg. Titled \"The Address,\" this documentary is set to be released in April 2014. Burns has an online website, \"Learn the Address\" that shows videos of noted individuals and ordinary folk alike reciting the Gettysburg Address. The site includes celebrities such as President Obama, former presidents George W. Bush and Bill Clinton, along with Steven Spielberg and Stephen Colbert. On November 9, 2013 President Obama's rendition of Lincoln's address was posted on this site. Obama came under attack from talk radio hosts who noted that his rendition left out the \"under God\" part (which exists in some but not all versions) White House spokesman Jay Carney explained that Obama had merely read the Nicolay copy of the address that Burns provided.\n\nTwenty-five States have formally established Sesquicentennial of the American Civil War committees, commissions or departments within each State that are then linked to the National Park Service website. Those States are: Arkansas, Connecticut, Delaware, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Maine, Maryland, Michigan, Mississippi, Missouri, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Ohio, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Tennessee, Utah, Virginia, West Virginia, and Wisconsin. Regardless of configuration, they may involve both public and private funding partnerships. States with legislatively designated commissions are: Arkansas, Maine, Mississippi, Oklahoma, and Virginia. States whose commemoratives are directed by state heritage agencies or historical societies are: Delaware, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Michigan, New Jersey, Ohio and Pennsylvania. The States that are relying on their own boards of tourism or economic development to present the Sesquicentennial story are: Georgia, Maryland, Missouri, North Carolina, Tennessee and West Virginia. New York, South Carolina and Utah are drawing from many entities to manage their commemoratives. Central Connecticut State University handles their State's presentations while in Wisconsin the Department of Veterans Affairs manages theirs. The States of Kansas and West Virginia are using the Sesquicentennials of their own States as a co-celebration with the national Civil War commemoratives.\n\nThe Shiloh Museum of Ozark History as well as the State's Department of Arkansas Heritage brings together a varied group of communicators, professors, historians and even young Arkansas students, selected for their own prize winning essays on the Sesquicentennial. The four- to five-minute audio presentations cover topics as expected of the \"Confederate Women of Arkansas\" and \"Arkansas Battlefield Archeology.\" The podcasts are also varied with \"Unionism in Arkansas,\" \"Medicine in Trans-Mississippi\" and \"Bats and the Civil War.\"\nOne particularly egregious event is recounted in the podcast \"Racial Atrocities during the Camden Expedition,\" the April 1864 engagement that commences as a forage for corn around Camden, Arkansas and ends in brutality against USCT. While the 1st Kansas Expeditionary force is setting about their re-supplying, they encounter the 29th Texas Cavalry, who they previously defeat at the engagement at Honey Springs. Now, it is 5000 Confederate troops defeating the almost 1200 Federal troops, among them the 1st Kansas Colored Infantry, in what becomes a part of the larger Battle of Poison Springs, Arkansas legacy. Of the 310 Federal troops killed near Camden, 116 are members of the 1st Kansas Colored Infantry. Nine wounded USCT troops are later sought by roaming members of the 29th Texas Cavalry and shot to death while undergoing treatment at battlefield aid stations, presumably in retaliation for battlefield actions \"by Negroes against our Confederate troops.\" Podcast reader Mark K. Christ, a member of the Arkansas Preservation Board, comments: \"This War became one of extermination.\"\n\nThe State of Georgia's National Park Service (NPS) linked site offers a resource for examining and understanding the African American experience in the United States. The NPS selects \"From the Civil War to Civil Rights\" as the Sesquicentennial theme. The intent is to be more inclusive in nature than what has gone before in the Centennial period, when Jim Crow policies are still a factor in many Southern regions of the United States.\nTo discuss issues of \"African Americans in the Civil War\" this NPS section is further broken into segments of Ethnography, African Reflections on the American Landscape and one focus group research, done under the auspices of Georgia researchers. Entitled \"African American Attitudes toward the Civil War: The War of Jubilee: Tell Our Stories and We Will Come,\" is a partnership of Kennesaw Mountain National Battlefield Park (KEMO) and the Kennesaw State University Center for the Study of the Civil War. Conducted in 2010, with the three goals of understanding the perspectives of the local African American community, inquiring how African Americans would like their history interpreted and finally, facilitating the incorporation of these desired interpretations into KEMO's presentations. Fifty-seven African American Participants with a history of involvement in heritage and/or preservation groups and also member participants with the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) interact and discuss with the Facilitators. Questions are posed to get a sense of the Participants' attitudes about the Civil War and also about the displays presently offered at KEMO. The Participant's responses indicate that inclusive representation of the range of African American history remains doubtful. There persists the sense among Black citizens that the Southern White population is resistant to any change in the \"Lost Cause\" narrative and instead prefers and only supports the marginalization of African Americans by being represented as enslaved persons.\nThe men and women of the Participant group suggest changes in data collection from African American families and communities, preferring more personalized histories be found and represented when telling their history. Facilitators list the inclusion of the USCT history as well as the stories of the diversity of the African American lives and communities both before and after the Civil War is included in an updated KEMO interpretation. The Facilitators are also recommending that the histories of the local, Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCU) and religious communities that grew from the post-War, mid-19th century are represented and that the educational community will engage in these efforts.\n\nHartwick College in Oneonto, New York hosts a \"Sesquicentennial Celebration\" concurrent with the academic year from 2011 through 2012. This independent, 1500 undergraduate school with Lutheran roots arranges twenty nine lectures on topics of the Underground Railroad explained for a young audience with storytelling and puppeteers to the Historical Methods students culling college archives for institutional links to the Civil War. The intent of this symposium, among other things, is presumed to be inclusive of the African American experience, the institutional history of Hartwick College and the regional ties to the War.\n\nIn December 2010, the Secession Ball is held on the 20th of that month in Charleston, South Carolina drew protests from the local National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP). The event is hosted by the Sons of Confederate Veterans at the Gaillard Municipal Auditorium. Re-enactors representing the Chairman that called for Secession in 1860 display the original \"Ordinance of Secession\" amidst attendees in antebellum period clothing. Lonnie Anderson of the Charleston NAACP states that the gathering is \"nothing more than a celebration of slavery.\" Commenting on behalf of the Charleston Parks and Recreation Department, set to schedule and manage Sesquicentennial events within that county, Tom O'Rourke admits that \"controversy and hard feelings\" are expected during this commemorative period. Beyond the confrontations, there is anticipation that this will also open the lines of communication between all parties and the hopes that the Commemorative period will represent all South Carolinians' perspectives of the Civil War.\n\nAs one of the activities for the State of Texas in this Sesquicentennial era, the city of Galveston has raised funds to erect a marker commemorating Juneteenth. This is significant as on June 19, 1865, Federal troops finally arrived in Galveston, Texas to declare that the Emancipation Proclamation has been signed two and one half years prior and that General Robert Lee has surrendered at Appomattox Courthouse in Virginia on April 9 of that year. The War is over. A contraction of June 19 becomes Juneteenth, the designation of a day of joyous celebration that slavery is over and is annually commemorated. The Galveston Historical Society is also making available a seventy-two page pamphlet of African Americans in Texas: A Lasting Legacy Timeline that may be Downloaded at this site. This pamphlet includes a multitude of historical sites related to African American history in the State of Texas including churches, school, museums and residential and community districts. Photographs and brief synopsis of the locales are provided.\n\nThe Commonwealth of Virginia, as a contribution to the 150th Anniversary of the American Civil War, conducts an annual Signature Conference Series commencing in 2009 and presented through 2015. The day-long meetings included panelists of note on topics that correlate to the circumstances leading up to, during and post-Civil War period. 2009 is \"America on the Eve of the Civil War;\" 2010: \"Race, Slavery and the Civil War;\" 2011: \"Military Strategy;\" 2012: \"Leadership and Generalship in the Civil War;\" 2013: \"The Civil War at Home;\" 2014: \"The American Civil War in a Global Context;\" 2015: \"The Causes Won and Lost.\" The events may be by registered attendance at an academic center in Virginia or are available on DVD for purchase. Individual speaker presentations are approximately fifteen minutes in length.\nThe 2010 Conference topic of \"Race, Slavery and the Civil War: The Tough Stuff of American History and Memory is held in September of that year at Norfolk State University, Norfolk, Virginia and chaired by historian James O. Horton, PhD. A sampling of that day's panel are: David Pitcaithley, PhD on \"Causes of the Civil War and Public History,\" and Ira Berlin, PhD speaks on \"The African American Soldier.\" Edna Medford, PhD of Howard University discusses that in the quest for Black rights there must be a dismantling of the contemporary social and legal systems within that Southern culture that is maintaining slavery.\n\nContemporary artists have found an opportunity to showcase their works in museums that are putting on exhibits for the Sesquicentennial. Artists like, Dale Gallon, Mort Kuntsler, and Don Troiani have commissioned pieces specifically for this anniversary as a way to capitalize on the revitalized popularity of the Civil War.\nWell-renowned historical artist Dale Gallon has created 10 new oil paintings for the 150th Anniversary that are currently on display as reproduced murals at the Seminary Ridge Museum in Gettysburg. According to Gallon's website, \"The museum will feature 20,000 square feet of interactive exhibit galleries and educational programming…\" The 10 new pieces created by Gallon focus on 3 key themes that emphasize life during the Civil War; the first day of combat at the Battle of Gettysburg, hospitalization and treated the wounded, and the moral, spiritual, and civic debates that arose around the Civil War. In a release from the museum the executive director, Barbara Franco, states that the Gallon exhibit, \"… will help visitors make a connection to the events on Seminary Ridge and help them understand the voices of duty and devotion focused on [in the exhibit].\" The exhibit opened on July 1, 2013 on the 150th anniversary of the Battle of Gettysburg and is now a permanent feature of the museum.\nMort Kuntsler recently finished an exhibit at the South Carolina State Museum entitled, For Us the Living, that ran until April 7, 2013. The show included, 30 paintings and sketches, which were \"a highlight of more than 350 Civil War scenes Kuntsler has painted over the past 25 years.\" After this show, Kuntsler only plans to paint 8 more Civil War themed pieces before retiring from this genre. This collection will be called, A Tribute to the Legend, and will feature, \"historical locations, personalities, and events that are special to Kunstler.\" For the 150th anniversary of the Civil War, Kuntsler partnered with America Remembers to produce the Mort Kuntsler Civil War Sesquicentennial Tribute Rifle. The tribute rifle, a Henry rifle, which was a reliable gun during the war, is attributed with Kuntsler artwork in 24-karat gold.\nDon Troiani has created a number of commissioned works for the 150th anniversary of the Civil War. Most notably, one oil piece that depicts a pivotal moment of African-American involvement on the battlefront, when Sgt. Maj. Thomas R. Hawkins, First Sgt. Alexander Kelly, and Lt. Nathan Edgerton rush forward and recover the Union colors. The painting was revealed in June 2013 at the Union League of Philadelphia.\n\nThe Gettysburg Cyclorama is one of the most important preservation projects brought on by the 150th Anniversary. This huge art piece is 377 ft. long, 42 ft. high, and weighs 12.5 tons. The cyclorama was originally painted with oil on canvas by Paul Philippoteaux to commemorate the Battle of Gettysburg, and it was opened to the public at Chicago in 1883 with critical and popular acclaim. The enormity of the cyclorama surrounded audiences and transported them the height of the battle. After the popularity of cyclorama dwindled around the start of the 20th century with the popularity of motion pictures, it was taken down and stored in abysmal conditions until it was purchased, mended, and hung in 1913. The cyclorama was purchased by the National Park Service in the late 1940s and underwent its first major restoration in 1962, just before the Civil War Centennial. According to the National Park Service's website, the restoration required, \"… hours of hand labor to repair water damaged portions of the painting and two large sections faded by years of direct sunlight.\" For the 150th Anniversary of the Civil War, the cyclorama underwent a five-year restoration project that started in 2003 at a cost of $15 million. For the restoration, \"conservators separated the painting's 27 panels and cleaned each one inch by inch with cotton swabs, stabilized brittle areas and removed bad touchups and damaging glue.\" The painting, for the first time in decades, has been hung correctly so that it bows inward and gives audiences the feeling of 3-dimensionality.\n\nWhen the cyclorama was restored in 1962 a new visitor's center was commissioned to house the piece. Created by well renowned architect, Richard Neutra. Neurta's design was a part of the National Park's Services' Mission 66, which sought to update \"deteriorated and dangerous conditions in the national parks.\" The visitor center he created was situated right on the battlefield. Through Mission 66, parks underwent modernization, and Neutra's design for the Gettysburg Visitor Center reflected that. \"Critics claimed the new building represented the idealism that was a part of the modern movent of the 1960's.\" By 1999, however, the building had become decrepit and the NPS planned its demolition to restore the sight lines of the battleground its original 1863 aesthetic. This stirred a controversy amongst spectators, including Neutra's son, Dion Neutra, who believed the building itself was worthy of preservation and a part of the National Park Service's own history. Neutra's building closed in 2005 and the Cyclorama painting was moved to its new museum and visitor center in 2007, and two years later, in 2009, during the midst of the 150th anniversary of the Civil War, Neutra's building was bulldozed. The new visitor center opened in 2008 and was designed by Cooper, Robertson & Partners to resemble a 19th-century farm.\n\nMany states involved with the sesquicentennial incorporated music festivals as a tribute. The Wisconsin band, dressed in both blue and gray uniforms, sounded trumpets to popular military tunes to commemorate the Battle of Chancellorsville. This band modeled itself, among those of other states, after the original bands to each respective area. Commemorators expressed how bands shaped the Civil War by soothing the men who had seen so much death.\nFrankfort, Kentucky contributed a celebration of the music of the Civil War era in a Cornets and Cannons Festival. This performance includes period instruments and will include some of the best and most experienced brass bands today re-creating the music of the Civil War era. Performers from around the country contributed to the overall performance from September 1 through September 4, 2011.\n\nThe Friends of Michigan History put on their third annual The Turning Point of the War, 1863 concert as a tribute to the Sesquicentennial. Both the male soldiers and the ladies of the band wear authentic Civil War outfits while 5th Michigan Regiment Band performed pre-1865 compositions on authentic brass instruments. Members of the band discussed their distress how too often historical events such as the sesquicentennial are completely lost in history.\nIn addition to state bands, the sesquicentennial of the Civil war inspired popular band Civil War. Civil War posted a new music video for the track \"Gettysburg\" as a tribute to the anniversary on their latest album \"The Killer Angels.\" The band commented on the released video as a contribution in respect for the one who lost their loves long ago on the battlefield of Gettysburg.\n\nBarter Theatre in Abingdon, Virginia premiered Rappahannock County and the theatre musical Civil War Voices, based on period diaries and letters of the period. In addition, the Shenandoah Valley Wayside Theatre and The Whipping Man, originally produced by Manhattan Theatre Club added to theater contributions around the country. However, controversy over how un-popularized other productions in states who chose to not commemorate the sesquicentennial, such as Chicago, has led supporters of commemoration to speak out to their local government about funding.\nIn addition to theater performances, Decatur, Alabama, The Princess Theatre Center for the Performing Arts commemorated with a lecture of stories of the era, book signing, and a concert \"Songs and Stories of the Civil War\".\nThe 1891 Fredonia Opera House in New York gave nod to the anniversary with a one-man, multimedia production A Better Band Than Mine. This production, originally created in 2002, is based on the actual letters of Civil War Musician, J. Herbert George, 10th Vermont Infantry. Creator Thomas Loughlin created this play due to his love of history of the Civil War and combining his fascination of digital technology.\n\nNumerous document digitization projects, such as the Civil War 150 Legacy Project: Document Digitization and Access, have been produced through legislature created commissions, like the Virginia Sesquicentennial of the American Civil War Commission. The document digitization projects involve the digitization, or computer imaging, of privately owned Civil War documents, such as soldier diaries or letters. Through the digitization of these documents, easier access and search of relevant Civil War information is readily available to the public online. These commissions aim to give scholars and the public information about the social, religious and political beliefs of Civil War Era soldiers.\n\nVarious sesquicentennial apps for mobile devices have appeared, many of these applications free for use. Many of the apps contain various educational and informational features such as GPS battleground locators and guides as well as interactive photographs and maps. \"Tennessee Civil War 150,\" is an app created by the state of Tennessee, which contains various educational features. These features include people, places, artifacts, events and a \"nearby\" feature, which uses GPS tracking to locate Civil War battlegrounds near your current location. Features such as its \"artifacts\" option on the homepage allows users to view photographs of various weapons and clothing items from the Civil War. Upon selecting a photo, a brief description of the item is displayed, educating users of its Civil War use as well as ownership history of the item.\n\nDigital media has played an important role in Civil War Sesquicentennial tourism. Various states' and battlefield use websites to promote the Civil War sites' activities that have sprouted as part of the sesquicentennial, efficiently and effectively. Organizations such as The Civil War Preservation Trust offer online features that create an itinerary of battlefields and their corresponding events. Through creating itineraries, guests are able to maximize their experience. In line with Civil War Sesquicentennial events, hotels near these events have incorporated the sesquicentennial into their tourism efforts, offering various \"Civil War Packages,\" which include hotel stays, Civil War lectures, art, and battlefield options as well as discounts for purchasing these online packages. The state of Virginia has invested in online sesquicentennial tourism promotions, offering an online trip planner, and promoting less conventional Civil War attractions, such as trail tours, which offer a different story than traditional Civil War events like traditional battle reenactments. The Virginia State tourism website also offers its webpage in various languages, creating a larger audience for its tourism attempts.\n\nMany states, particularly Southern states, created special educational repositories for teaching the American Civil War during the Sesquicentennial. Many states utilize various Digital Humanities projects, particularly the National Endowment for the Humanities EDSITEment project The EDSITEment website provides ready-made lesson plans with guiding questions and significant primary sources to expand the curriculum. The inclusion of sourcework into online repositories can be used for gaining an understanding of the American Civil War. Other repositories used are listed below.\n\nMany digital educational resources for teachers have developed out of the sesquicentennial, including virtual reality games such as \"ValleySim.\" This digital resource has been adopted by a number of schools, which allows users to virtually experience life of both Northern and Southern soldiers during the Civil War. Many states offer various educational resources for students and teachers on their Civil War Sesquicentennial websites, such as Pennsylvania on their page \"Pennsylvania Civil War 150.\" Through their \"Resources for Teachers\" link, various resources are available, including interactive timelines and maps.\nVarious institutions of higher education have also participated in sesquicentennial events. Longwood University has created a series of podcasts entitled That a Nation Might Live to commemorate issues, people and events of the Civil War. The University has integrated this project into undergraduate programs, creating active engagement between students and the Civil War through its written research by undergraduate students.\n\nThere is a guide for middle school aged students that has resources geared specifically for them. The LibGuide is part of a project to encourage middle school and high school students to utilize archival collections for their projects, and to assist in making learning history more enjoyable.\n\nThe Civil War Trust is dedicated to the preservation of American Civil War battlefields. For the sesquicentennial they have compiled a battle narrative.\n\nThe Gilder Lehrman Institute for American History is a non-profit digital history project for the nation's public school systems. They provide lesson plans but their focus is digitization of valuable primary sources for free viewing.\n\nThe Library of Congress published a website for general viewing to transmit an American narrative. They offer small synopses of various important events before and during the war effort.\n\nThe Library of Congress has a memory site. It provides a large database of primary sourcework for public school analysis. Everything is free access and open to anyone wishing to utilize their resources.\n\nThe National Archives has created a mobile repository of Civil War information and artifacts that circulates to host museums.\n\nCommemoration for the Sesquicentennial of the American Civil War can be viewed through various social media sites like Instagram and Twitter through hashtags such as #CivilWar150, #CW150 and #CivilWar. The Sesquicentennial is the first anniversary of the American Civil War that has seen the use of social media technologies. This technology offers a unique insight of the public's perspective on the sesquicentennial by allowing each person the opportunity to voice his or her opinion in a free forum.\n\nTypical users on these sites are photojournalists, bloggers and tourists visiting a wide selection of sesquicentennial events across multiple states. The photojournalists on average are above the age of 35 and tend to have a more serious opinion of the events. While many of the tourists appear to below the age of 25 and have a more lighthearted humorous view of the Civil War.\n\nThe NPS asked President Obama to make some remarks at Gettysburg on the anniversary of Lincoln's speech. However, Obama declined and assigned the United States Secretary of the Interior, Sally Jewell, the task of appearing at Gettysburg on his behalf. In addition, \"Gettysburg NMP Law Enforcement Ranger Morgan Brooks\" read a prepared statement written by Obama for the event; this letter also appears on the White House website.\n\nThe sesquicentennial of the Gettysburg Address also saw a regional paper called \"The Patriot-News\" retract a negative editorial it published on November 24, 1863 regarding \"the silly remarks of the President.\" This belated retraction was much discussed in the media, and even became fodder for a \"Saturday Night Live\" skit featuring the character \"Jebidiah Atkinson,\" played by Taran Killam. News publication \"The Week\" mocked the retraction and remarked that it \"[wa]sn't the most consequential apology, nor the most belated.\" The article proceeded to list other belated apologies, including a June 18, 2009 U.S. Senate resolution passed to apologize for the institution of slavery and segregation.\n\nHollywood's take on the war has been especially influential in shaping public memory, as seen in such film \"classics\" as \"Birth of a Nation\" (1915), \"Gone with the Wind\" (1939), and \"Lincoln (2012)\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32637293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32637293", "title": "Currency War of 2009–11", "text": "Currency War of 2009–11\n\nThe Currency War of 2009–2011 was an episode of competitive devaluation which became prominent in the financial press in September 2010. Competitive devaluation involves states competing with each other to achieve a relatively low valuation for their own currency, so as to assist their domestic industry. With the financial crises of 2008 the export sectors of many emerging economies have experienced declining orders, and from 2009 several states began or increased their levels of intervention to push down their currencies.\n\nBoth private sector analysts and politicians including Tim Geithner have suggested the phrase \"currency war\" overstates the extent of hostility, but the term has been widely used by the media since Brazil's finance ministers Guido Mantega September 2010 announcement that a \"currency war\" had broken out.\n\nOther commentators including world statesmen such as Manmohan Singh and Guido Mantega suggested a \"currency war\" was indeed underway and that the leading participants are China and the US, though since 2009 many other states have been taking measures to either devalue or at least check the appreciation of their currencies. The US does not acknowledge that it is practicing competitive devaluation and its official policy is to let the dollar float freely. While the US has taken no direct action to devalue its currency, there is close to universal consensus among analysts that its quantitative easing programmes exert downwards pressure on the dollar.\n\nAccording to many analysts the currency war had largely fizzled out by mid-2011, though others including Mantega disagreed. As of March 2012, outbreaks of rhetoric were still occurring, with additional measures being adopted by countries like Brazil to control the appreciation of their currency. Yet by June, there were signs that currency misalignment had been levelling out in China and across the world, with even Mantega relaxing some of Brazils anti-appreciation controls. Alarms were raised concerning a possible second 21st currency war in January 2013, this time with the most apparent tension being between Japan and the Euro-zone.\n\nFollowing the financial crisis of 2008 widespread concern arose among advanced economies concerning the size of their deficits; they increasingly joined emerging economies in viewing export-led growth as their ideal strategy. In March 2009, even before international cooperation reached its peak with the 2009 G-20 London Summit Economist Ted Truman became one of the first to warn of the dangers of competitive devaluation breaking out. He also coined the phrase \"competitive non-appreciation\".\n\nOn 27 September 2010, Brazilian Finance Minister Guido Mantega said that the world is \"in the midst of an international currency war.\"\nNumerous financial journalists agreed with Mantega's view, referring to recent interventions by various countries seeking to devalue their exchange rate including China, Japan, Colombia, Israel and Switzerland.\n\nOther analysts asserted that fears of a currency war were exaggerated.\nIn September, senior policy makers such as International Monetary Fund (IMF) Managing Director Dominique Strauss-Kahn and US Treasury Secretary Tim Geithner were reported as saying the chances of a genuine currency war breaking out were low; however by early October, Strauss-Kahn was warning that the risk of a currency war was real. He also suggested the IMF could help resolve the trade imbalances which could be the underlying casus belli for conflicts over currency valuations. Mr Strauss-Kahn said that using currencies as weapons \"is not a solution [and] it can even lead to a very bad situation. There’s no domestic solution to a global problem.\"\n\nDaniel Tenengauzer, the head of emerging-market currency and rates strategy at Merrill Lynch, suggested talk of a currency war can be seen as \"political posturing\", noting that emerging economies had been intervening on a wider scale back in 2009. George Soros expressed concern saying \"I share the growing concern about the misalignment of currencies. Brazil’s finance minister speaks of a latent currency war, and he is not far off the mark. It is in the currency markets where different economic policies and different economic and political systems interact and clash.\"\n\nConsiderable attention had been focused on China. For much of 2009 and 2010, China has been under pressure from the US to allow the yuan to appreciate. Between June and October 2010, China allowed a 2% appreciation of the yuan, but there are concerns from Western observers that China only relaxes her intervention when under heavy pressure. The fixed peg was not abandoned until just before the June G20 meeting, after which the yuan appreciated by about 1%, only to slowly devalue again until further US pressure in September when the yuan again began relatively steep appreciation, with the imminent September US Congressional hearings to discuss measures to force a revaluation.\nLeading financial journalist Martin Wolf has suggested there may be advantages in western economies taking a more confrontational approach against China, which in recent years has been by far the biggest practitioner of competitive devaluation. Though he suggests that rather than using protectionist measures that may spark a trade war, a better tactic would be to use targeted capital controls against China to prevent them buying foreign assets in order to further devalue the yuan, as previously suggested by Centre for European Policy Studies director Daniel Gros.\n\nIn the middle of October 2010, finance ministers congregated in Washington, D.C. for the 2010 annual IMF and World Bank meeting, which was expected to be dominated by talk of currency war. Just prior to the IMF meeting, the Institute of International Finance had called for leading countries to agree on a currency pact to aid the rebalancing of the world economy and to avert the threat of competitive devaluation.\nThe meeting was held amid warnings that weaker exchange rates risk hurting the global economy, which was already vulnerable due to the Global financial crisis. There was concern about tit-for-tat protectionism at a time when the rate of increase in global growth was already slowing.\n\nCanadian Finance Minister Jim Flaherty said \"This is a crucial time that we need to address the commitment of our leaders to free trade, that we avoid protectionist measures.\" His US counterpart Timothy Geithner added that \"global rebalancing is not progressing as well as needed to avoid threats to the global economic recovery.\"\nVarious international finance ministers said the IMF should help abating the possibility of a currency war by encouraging initiatives to expand national economies without hurting that of other countries. The IMF, in turn, urged most developed countries to boost exports, and for some emerging markets to enhance domestic consumption and to let their currencies appreciate. Dominique Strauss-Kahn said the IMF would highlight the linkages between economies as part of a \"systemic stability initiative\". Its steering committee added that it should work on capital flows, exchange rate movements and the accumulation of capital reserves.\nStrauss-Kahn also said \"There is clearly the idea beginning to circulate that currencies can be used as a policy weapon...Translated into action, such an idea would represent a very serious risk to the global recovery...Any such approach would have a negative and very damaging longer-run impact.\"\nAustralia's Federal Treasurer, Wayne Swan played down rumours of a currency war saying global financial ministers were working in a coordinated way to deal with \"exchange rate reform\". However, the opposition's finance minister, Andrew Robb, warned that with some countries deliberately devaluing their currencies other countries may retaliate thus causing a \"trade war\", and he urged Swann to alert \"all of these other major countries to the very damaging implications of a currency war\".\n\nDuring the IMF meeting there was disagreement based on conflicting views about how to sustain a recovery from the global recession. Countries led by the United States preferred flexible exchange rates, while others, led by China, resisted calls to appreciate their currency. The IMF meeting in Washington DC was inconclusive, as China rejected calls to allow rapid appreciation of its currency.\nCurrency war was scheduled to be discussed at November's G20 summit in Seoul.\n\nIn an article published after the IMF meeting the \"Financial Times\" reported there was little sign of fruitful co-operation, with China blaming America for causing problems to emerging markets with excessive quantitative easing, while America repeated its calls for further appreciation of the yuan. According to Cornell University's Eswar Prasad: \"China's aggressive pushback against criticism of its currency policy by shifting the line of attack towards loose monetary policies and rising public debt in advanced economies reflects its growing assertiveness and strong resistance to international pressure.\"\n\nThe \"Financial Times\" reported the \"battle lines were drawn\" as China accused the US of destabilising emerging economies with a \"ultra-loose monetary policy\", and the US wanted the IMF to intensify focus on both the exchange rates and the reserve accumulation of China.\n\"Reuters\" suggested a currency war is already underway, with both China and the United States \"winning the race\" to devalue their currencies while pushing up the value of the Euro, the Yen and the currencies of many emerging economies. However, it added that with increasing rhetoric everyone will lose out.\n\nMartin Wolf has opined that the US will inevitably win a currency war and is concerned the adverse consequences will fall unequally on other countries, suggesting its far better if a collaborative solution can be agreed on at the November G20.\nA contrasting view was published on 19 October, with a paper from Chinese economist Yiping Huang arguing that the US did not win the last \"currency war\" with Japan, and has even less of a chance against China; but should focus instead on broader \"structural adjustments\" at the November 2010 G-20 Seoul summit.\n\nAlso writing for the \"Financial Times\", Alan Beattie was less optimistic than Mr Wolf about the chances of a collaborative solution, as he considers China and America have too divergent views on currency to be able to co-operate. Speaking very shortly before the G20 summit was due to begin, Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper also expressed doubts that leaders would be able to agree on a solution.\n\nDiscussion over currency war and imbalances dominated the G20 summit. Attending leaders such as Britain's David Cameron made statements suggesting good progress had been made. Yet according to most commentators no substantial agreement was reached, with the US largely unable to persuade other nations to endorse the measures it considers necessary to rebalance the global economy. IMF managing director Dominique Strauss-Kahn said this particular summit was \"more of a G20 debate than a G20 conclusion\".\n\nThe communiqué issued after the meeting did include a commitment to support enhanced monitoring so growing imbalances can be better identified, and to work on a possible future agreement for \"indicative guidelines\".\n\nA report released after the summit by the IMF warned that without additional progress there is a risk of global imbalances approximately doubling to reach pre-crises levels by 2014.\nThe lack of any resolution by the G20 led to concerns from other countries not directly involved such as Australia; if the \"currency war\" continues they may be exposed to harmful upwards pressure on their exchange rates.\n\nBy December 2010, currency war was less of a hot topic and wasn't even on the agenda for the bilateral trade talks held between China and the US, but the issues still remain unresolved, with many emerging economies considering increased use of capital controls to cope with potentially de-stabilising capital inflows.\n\nJanuary 2011 saw new interventions to prevent currency appreciation and volatility from Brazil, South Korea and even from Chile – a country with a reputation for avoiding government intervention in favour of free market policies. Brazil's finance minister Guido Mantega who had raised the alarm about a currency war back in September, warned that matters were beginning to escalate into a trade war. He expressed concerns about the economic policies of both China and the US.\nBy February, the US had stepped up diplomatic efforts to persuade emerging economies such as Brazil and India that China's intervention was the root cause of the currency war. However the US once again refrained from labelling China a currency manipulator. A Treasury report said that allowing for their high inflation, China was on track for an annual appreciation of 10% since they relaxed their currency peg back in June 2010. However treasury officials also suggested that this rate of appreciation is still insufficient either for the interests of the US, the wider global economy or even China itself.\n\nBy late February Bloomberg reported that talk of currency war had subsided, with several emerging economies choosing to allow currency appreciation as a way to combat inflation.\nFebruary saw the US dollar fall to its lowest level since 1973, based on comparison against a weighted basket composed of the currencies of its major trading partners and analysts began to converge on the view that the Feds QE2 program would begin to wind up by the middle of the year.\nAnalyses from both private and central banks agreed with the Fed's assessment that reducing global imbalances was in everyones interests, saying also that various long term trends would make the reduction likely to happen.\nThe IMFs February 2011 economic outlook report was generally positive about the global economy, but noted that so far little actual progress had been made in reducing imbalances.\n\nMarch saw analysts from BNP Paribas report that the currency war had ended – governments of emerging economies were increasingly deciding to accept currency appreciation so as to mitigate rising food prices, one of the causes behind civil discontent driving the Arab Spring.\nIn April, the \"Financial Times\" joined Bloomberg in reporting that the currency war was beginging to fizzle out, again suggesting a key reason was the trend for emerging economies to allow currency appreciation as a means to offset inflation.\nAlthough Brazil is one of the emerging countries that has recently abandoned intervening against appreciation, her finance minister Guido Mantega disagreed with suggestions that the 'currency war' is over, saying it is still on-going. In an April interview with the \"Wall Street Journal\", Mantega spoke out against the loose monetary policies of advanced nations which have been aggravating inflation in emerging economies.\n\nUnlike other emerging economies, China has so far chose to continue holding its currency down against the dollar, fighting inflation instead with interest rate rises. The rate rises cause even greater pressure from the markets for a currency appreciation, and to prevent this, at least in the months leading up to early 2011, China had to buy dollar assets at a faster rate than ever.\nIn May, Alan Beatie for the \"Financial Times\" suggested that the Currency War was not over, it had merely entered a lull, with the underlying tensions still unresolved.\nIn July 2011, Guido Mantega told the \"Financial Times\" that the struggle between China and the US was still ongoing, suggesting that several emerging economies including Brazil were still experiencing undesirable upwards pressure on their exchange rates.\nAs investor confidence in the global economic outlook fell in early August, Bloomberg suggested the currency war had entered a new phase. This followed renewed talk of a possible third round of quantitative easing by the US (QE3) and interventions over the first three days of August by Switzerland and Japan to push down the value of their currencies.\n\nIn September 2011 Gideon Rachman warned that continued excessive intervention by nations trying to hold down the value of their currencies could aggravate the risk of protectionism.\nGuillermo Felices, who heads up forex research for Barclays Capital, suggested the currency war may intensify if the US, EU and UK begin an additional round of monetary easing.\n\nAlso in September, as part of her opening speech for the 66th United Nations Debate, and also in an article for the \"Financial Times\", Brazilian president Dilma Rousseff called for the currency war to be ended by increased use of floating currencies and greater cooperation and solidarity among major economies, with exchange rate policies set for the good of all rather than having individual nations striving to gain an advantage for themselves.\n\nThe US, and to a lesser extent the UK, share a position where they have independent currencies in addition to twin deficits – both large current account deficits and large fiscal deficits. Though austerity programmes can address their fiscal deficits, the effect of these can only be to move debt from the public to private sector, unless the countries begin earning more than they spend – in other words their overall debt can only be paid off by going into current account surplus. Lowering their exchange rates, especially against the yuan, is considered by government officials and by most economists as an important part of their approach to transition towards current account surpluses. The UK and US have not directly intervened to devalue their currencies, however their QE programmes have exerted downwards exchange rate pressure. In October 2010 analysts were expecting the UK and US to employ additional QE.\nAfter Japan's intervention in the week of 5 October, there was speculation that the US Federal Reserve would also intervene to inject more money into the economy via another round of QE (QE2), hence for a short time after the dollar depreciated slightly.\n\n\"The Daily Telegraph\" reported that while countries which have trade surpluses with the United States were trying to devalue or prevent appreciation of their currencies— including China, Japan, Korea, Thailand, and Switzerland —the US was starting to retaliate with measures such as the Reform for Fair Trade Act. It then said:\nThe atomic bomb, of course, is quantitative easing by the Federal Reserve. America has in effect issued an ultimatum to China and G20: either you stop this predatory behaviour and agree to some formula for global rebalancing, or we will deploy QE2 `a l’outrance’ to flood your economies with excess liquidity. We will cause you to overheat and drive up your wage costs. We will impose a de facto currency revaluation by more brutal and disruptive means, and there is little you can do to stop it. Pick your poison.\n\nThe \"Telegraph\" went on to say, however, that while a second round of quantitative easing may be required at a later date, there would soon be a \"dangerous moment\" that could backfire against the US with a weak dollar. It cited a \"rush into oil and resources\" and a consequent risk that a \"commodity shock\" could occur before a new stimulus. Thus, \"US risks gambling away the 'exorbitant privilege' it has enjoyed for two-thirds of a century as currency hegemon.\"\n\nBy mid October 2010, the dollar had dropped 7% since a 27 August speech by Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke in which he said there was a possibility of further easing monetary policy. On 18 October, US Treasury Secretary Tim Geithner stated \"It is very important for people to understand that the United States of America and no country around the world can devalue its way to prosperity and competitiveness.\" Following this statement the value of the dollar rose as speculators calculated that at least in the short term it would be less likely for the US to intentionally devalue its currency.\n\nIn late October the US unveiled a suggestion to address the broader issues relating to trade imbalances by introducing indicative guidelines that for most countries would target a maximum current account surplus of 4% of GDP. While the plan attracted immediate opposition, the general notion of limiting excessive surpluses achieved cautious support at the October meeting of G20 finance ministers, including from China.\nBy early November opposition from Germany and China had strengthened, leading the US to apparently back down from the plan, though speaking three days before the November G20 summit President Obama suggested the US would be pushing hard for an aggressive reduction of global imbalances.\n\nAustralia, Canada and New Zealand all appear to have refrained from intervening against their currencies or from imposing new capital controls and have each seen substantial appreciation of their currencies in 2010. However both Australia and Canada have strong economies and are rich in natural resources. According to Moody's, negative effects from New Zealand's appreciation is offset by the fact that her currency has depreciated with respect to Australia, her biggest customer.\n\nThe Eurozone is a special case where some members, principally Germany, enjoy a large current account surplus and so could accept or even benefit from currency appreciation. Other countries though such as Greece, Spain, Portugal and Ireland have twin deficits and so to a large extent would benefit from a depreciation. While the European Central Bank (ECB) did practice some QE in 2009, this was to a much lower extent than the US or UK, and they did not deploy a second round. The value of the Euro has been effectively left to float, and in fact early in 2010 central authorities intervened to defend the Euro’s value against the market. Following the generally positive results from bank stress testing that were released in summer, market participants stopped speculating against the Euro, and the currency has tended to rise as a result of other countries practicing competitive devaluation. A major driver for the rise in the Euro in the latter half of 2010 was China's purchase of Euro-denominated bonds. While China's intervention was in some ways helpful for the Eurozone, it also generated concern with several European officials speaking out against the action. These officials included: ECB governor Jean-Claude Trichet and Eurogroup president Jean-Claude Juncker.\n\nJapan also has a large current account surplus, and in 2009 and 2010 the country allowed the Yen to appreciate. However, in September 2010 Japan twice intervened to effect a devaluation. Japan has a number of challenges that limit its ability to allow ongoing currency appreciation, including an aging population, high government debt (though not net debt as it has high private savings) and vulnerability to deflation. The September devaluation did not draw widespread international condemnation. Within a couple of weeks upwards pressure on the Yen from the markets had almost entirely undone the effect of the intervention. However shortly after the March 2011 earthquake, other G7 nations joined Japan in a rare act of solidarity, selling billions of Yen to help Japan devalue its currency against pressure from speculators who were betting on a further appreciation, as insurance firms recalled funds from abroad.\n\nSpeaking in October 2010, Russian Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin said it was too early too make \"a decision regarding currency exchange rates. Such measures aren’t yet sufficiently formulated.\" He also stated other BRIC countries support Russia in opposing any US push to limit the ability of governments to control their currencies.\n\nIndia has largely taken a neutral position on the currency war, advocating a balanced solution with give and take by both China and the US, though along with Brazil she has been one of the few emerging economies to occasionally criticise China's holding down of the Yuan.\nPrime Minister Manmohan Singh suggested the currency war can be viewed as part of a power struggle between the US and China and that India will have to play a role to ensure a balanced outcome.\n\nChina has a large current account surplus and huge foreign reserves along with the potential to transition towards domestic demand-led growth, allowing it to appreciate the yuan and reduce the current account surplus while still maintaining high GDP growth and decreasing unemployment.\nHowever, its economy has long been geared towards export-led growth, and hence a substantial appreciation could cause a sharp rise in unemployment, as China's premier warned in early October 2010. Economic commentators such as Martin Wolf have speculated that China is wary of complying with pressure to allow a substantial currency appreciation as she considers the long period of stagnation Japan experienced after the \"Plaza accord\" as in part resulting from Japan allowing a substantial appreciation of her currency against the dollar.\n\nChinese premier Wen Jiabao has stated that reforms to re-balance the Chinese economy away from its current dependency on exports are well underway and that the yuan is being allowed to gradually appreciate. He warned that if China is forced to revalue its currency too fast that it would lead to social unrest in China, bankruptcy for export dependent companies and \"disaster for the world\".\nIn October, China posted a record surge in its foreign exchange reserves, which was seen as a \"target around the neck of China’s exchange rate regime\" in the effort to get the country to allow its currency to appreciate.\nIn reaction, Geithner suggested China’s attempts at limiting gains were the reason for capital controls and currency-market interventions in other emerging economies. \"What’s happening is, as China holds its currency down, their currencies are moving up and they’re having to work very hard to make sure they’re not at an unfair disadvantage with China.\" \"Bloomberg\" pointed out at that countries such as Brazil, South Korea and Thailand sold their respective currencies in the weeks preceding the report to curb gains and support export. South Korea, Taiwan, Brazil, Colombia and Russia were also tightening rules to limit capital flows and avoid swings in their currencies.\n\nHowever, the Obama administration decided to postpone the decision to label China a \"currency manipulator\" until after the G20 summit in South Korea and the United States elections, 2010.\nChina issued its own \"warning\" against being made a \"scapegoat\" for the US's failings.\nChina accused the US of waging the currency war and that it has \"exercised financial policies characterised as 'economic egoism.'\"\nIn April 2011, the \"Financial Times\" reported that Chinese officials have signalled 2016 as a date when they expect to stop intervening against their currency by buying dollar assets.\n\nBrazil is a large economy which has generally allowed their currency to float freely, with the exception of some low level interventions to counter large capital inflows resulting from major stock sales. As a result, since early 2009 her currency has risen substantially against the dollar, with Goldman Sachs saying the real is the most over valued currency in the world. In October 2010, Brazil began increasing her capital controls, doubling a tax on foreign purchases of fixed-income assets to 4 percent so as to curb the real's appreciation to a two-year. On 18 October, Brazil sought to curb the real's gains by raising taxed capital inflow on fixed-income assets by 2% to 6% and taxed inflows for margin deposits on futures to 6% from 0.38%.\n\nChile said it would implement capital controls to curb gains in the Chilean peso, which had strengthened the most in the region in the middle of 2010, citing Chile's mixed in the 1990s. Finance Minister Felipe Larrain suggested that less public spending is \"one of the best ways\" to prevent appreciation and that \"short-term capital I don’t want, so they disguise it as long-term capital and they are really playing with the interest rate differential.\"\n\nColombia and Costa Rica also initiated programmes to buy dollars to check their currency gains.\n\nIn Oct 2010, Thai Finance Minister Korn Chatikavanij said his country faces a \"challenge\" as the appreciation of the baht was making Thai exports less competitive, and thus he needed to try to reduce volatility in the currency but \"a country like ours can[not] forcibly change the fundamental direction of our currency.\" Over the first nine months of 2010 the baht had risen in value by 11 percent, the second largest appreciation of Asia's 11 most heavily traded currencies. There were also concerns that exports may slow: sales to foreigners make up almost two-thirds of Thai's economic activity. Prime Minister Abhisit Vejjajiva also said Thailand may step up efforts to prevent currency appreciation from hurting its exporters.\n\nAfrica was hit harder by the global financial crises than other emerging regions. African countries may not however be as adversely affected by a currency war, as one of the regions problems is the collapse of foreign investment following the crisis, so increased international investment resulting from QE2 may actually help Africa rather than excessively drive up its currencies as is feared for other emerging regions.\nHowever South African Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan has warned that \"currency wars\" could lead to \"trade wars\" if allowed to continue.\n\nThe threat of a currency war would adversely affect the Caricom community because the various currencies are either tied to or float against the US dollar. Export and tourism earnings are closely linked to the US or Europe, thus there is a strong dependency on the said regions unlike Latin America which has diversified its markets in the previous decade.\n\nEarly figures for February 2012 suggested that China had experienced a monthly trade deficit of $31.5bn, her largest for almost 15 years. By March this had prompted several Chinese officials to suggest the time was approaching for them to halt the appreciation of the Renimbi, with several independent analysts agreeing this would be reasonable. However China still has a substantial bi-lateral trade surplus with the US, and Financial Times journalists have suggested that if China returned to a fixed peg against the dollar this could re-ignite the Currency War, especially if the move coincided with the US presidential election campaign. Also in March 2012, Brazil's president Rousseff said her country was still experiencing undesirable upwards pressure on her currency, with her Finance Minister Guido Mantega saying Brazil will no longer \"play the fool\" and allow others to get away with competitive devaluation, announcing new measures aimed at limiting further appreciation for the Real.\n\nIn June 2012, the \"Financial Times\" reported that while international trade remained a source of contention, concerns over currency war had receded, along with signs that major currencies such as the Renminbi were now much less undervalued than they had been a year previously. Brazil currency had fallen substantially from its peak value against the dollar, allowing Mantega to begin rolling back anti-appreciation measures.\nIn July, the IMF downgraded its assessment of the degree to which the Renminbi is undervalued from \"substantially\" to \"moderately\". However, Chinese officials were not pleased, suggesting that their exchange rate is no longer undervalued at all. Whereas in the US, presidential candidate Mitt Romney retains his pledge to brand China as a currency manipulator from his first day of office.\n\nIn October, Alan Beatie and Alice Ross for the \"Financial Times\" noted that the global trade imbalances which had driven the currency war have been sharply reduced. However, they suggest that without further reforms, the imbalances may soon widen again. They also note that Mantega once more raised the alarm about competitive devaluation, following the United States's launch of QE3 in September.\n\nIn mid January 2013, Japan's central bank signaled the intention to launch an open ended bond buying programme which would likely devalue the yen. This resulted in numerous senior central bankers and finance ministers warning of a possible fresh round of currency war. First to raise the alarm was Alexei Ulyukayev, the first deputy chairman at Russia's central bank. He was later joined by many others including Bahk Jae-wan, the finance minister for South Korea, and by Jens Weidmann, president of the Bundesbank. Weidmann held the view that interventions during the 2009-11 period were not intense enough to count as competitive devaluation, but that a genuine currency war is now a real possibility. Japan's economy minister Akira Amari has said that the Bank of Japan's bond buying programme is intended to combat deflation, and not to weaken the yen. Most commentators have asserted that if a new round of competitive devaluation occurs it would be harmful for the global economy. However some analysts have stated that Japan's planned actions could be in the long term interests of the rest of the world; just as he did for the 2010-11 incident, economist Barry Eichengreen has suggested that even if many other countries start intervening against their currencies it could boost growth worldwide, as the effects would be similar to semi-coordinated global monetary expansion. Other analysts have expressed skepticism about the risk of a war breaking out, with Marc Chandler, chief currency strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman, advising that: \"A real currency war remains a remote possibility.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "827027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=827027", "title": "Elvis taxon", "text": "Elvis taxon\n\nIn paleontology, an Elvis taxon (plural \"Elvis taxa\") is a taxon that has been misidentified as having re-emerged in the fossil record after a period of presumed extinction, but is not actually a descendant of the original taxon, instead having developed a similar morphology by convergent evolution. This implies that the extinction of the original taxon is real, and one taxon containing specimens from before and after the extinction would be polyphyletic.\n\nThe term Elvis taxon was coined by D. H. Erwin and M. L. Droser in a 1993 paper to distinguish descendant from non-descendant taxa:\n\nRather than continue the biblical tradition favored by Jablonski (for Lazarus taxa), we prefer a more topical approach and suggest that such taxa should be known as Elvis taxa, in recognition of the many Elvis impersonators who have appeared since the death of The King.\n\nBy contrast, a Lazarus taxon is one that really is a descendant of the original taxon, and highlights transitional fossil records, which might be found later.\n\nA zombie taxon has been considered a Lazarus taxon because it has been collected from younger strata, but it later turns out to be a fossil that was freed from the original seam and was refossilized in a sediment of a younger age. An example is a trilobite that gets eroded out of its Cambrian-aged limestone matrix and reworked into Miocene-aged siltstone.\n\n\"Rhaetina gregaria\", one of the most common Late Triassic brachiopod species, has been regarded as a survivor that ranges across the Triassic-Jurassic boundary into the Early Jurassic. The external morphology of specimens from before and after the Triassic–Jurassic extinction event were initially thought to be identical. Study of the internal features of the early Jurassic material showed that it was actually quite distinct from the Triassic specimens, and should be assigned to the genus \"Lobothyris\" as \"L. subgregaria\".\n\n"}
{"id": "10629659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10629659", "title": "Eurovision Young Musicians 1988", "text": "Eurovision Young Musicians 1988\n\nThe Eurovision Young Musicians 1988 was the fourth edition of the Eurovision Young Musicians, held at Concertgebouw in Amsterdam, Netherlands on 31 May 1988. Organised by the European Broadcasting Union (EBU) and host broadcaster Nederlandse Omroep Stichting (NOS), musicians from six countries participated in the televised final. A total of sixteen countries took part in the competition. All participants had to be younger than 19 and performed a classical piece of their choice accompanied by the Radio Filharmonisch Orkest conducted by Sergiu Comissiona. Cyprus and Spain made their début, and Israel withdrew from the 1988 contest.\n\nThe non-qualified countries were Belgium, Cyprus, Denmark, France, Ireland, Netherlands, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and Yugoslavia. For the second year in a row, the host country did not qualify for the final. The semifinal took place between 26–27 May, a few days before the televised final. Julian Rachlin of Austria won the contest, with Norway and Italy placing second and third respectively.\n\nThe Concertgebouw (also known as the \"Royal Concertgebouw\") a concert hall in Amsterdam, Netherlands, was the host venue for the 1988 edition of the Eurovision Young Musicians.\n\nThe Dutch term \"concertgebouw\" literally translates into English as \"concert building\". On 11 April 2013, on occasion of the building's 125th anniversary, Queen Beatrix bestowed the Royal Title \"Koninklijk\" upon the building, as she did previously on to the Royal Concertgebouw Orchestra. Because of its highly regarded acoustics, the Concertgebouw is considered one of the finest concert halls in the world, along with places such as Boston's Symphony Hall and the Musikverein in Vienna.\n\nMartine Bijl was the host of the 1988 contest. Each participating country were able to send male or female artists who were no older than 19 years of age, to represent them by playing a classical piece of their choice accompanied by the Radio Filharmonisch Orkest conducted under Sergiu Comissiona\n\nA total of sixteen countries took part in the preliminary round of the 1988 contest, of which six qualified to the televised grand final. The following countries failed to qualify.\nAwards were given to the top three countries. The table below highlights these using \"gold, silver, and bronze\". The placing results of the remaining participants is unknown and never made public by the European Broadcasting Union.\n\nThe jury members consisted of the following:\n\nEBU members from the following countries broadcast the final round.\n\n"}
{"id": "52288758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52288758", "title": "Fake news website", "text": "Fake news website\n\nFake news websites (also referred to as hoax news websites) are Internet websites that deliberately publish fake news—hoaxes, propaganda, and disinformation purporting to be real news—often using social media to drive web traffic and amplify their effect. Unlike news satire, fake news websites deliberately seek to be perceived as legitimate and taken at face value, often for financial or political gain. Such sites have promoted political falsehoods in Germany, Indonesia and the Philippines, Sweden, Myanmar, and the United States. Many sites originate in, or are promoted by, Russia, Macedonia, Romania, and some individuals in the United States.\n\nOne pan-European newspaper, \"The Local\", described the proliferation of fake news as a form of psychological warfare. Some media analysts have seen it as a threat to democracy. In 2016, the European Parliament's Committee on Foreign Affairs passed a resolution warning that the Russian government was using \"pseudo-news agencies\" and Internet trolls as disinformation propaganda to weaken confidence in democratic values.\nIn 2015, the Swedish Security Service, Sweden's national security agency, issued a report concluding Russia was using fake news to inflame \"splits in society\" through the proliferation of propaganda. Sweden's Ministry of Defence tasked its Civil Contingencies Agency with combating fake news from Russia. Fraudulent news affected politics in Indonesia and the Philippines, where there was simultaneously widespread usage of social media and limited resources to check the veracity of political claims. German Chancellor Angela Merkel warned of the societal impact of \"fake sites, bots, trolls\".\n\nFraudulent articles spread through social media during the 2016 U.S. presidential election, and several officials within the U.S. Intelligence Community said that Russia was engaged in spreading fake news. Computer security company FireEye concluded that Russia used social media to spread fake news stories as part of a cyberwarfare campaign. Google and Facebook banned fake sites from using online advertising. Facebook launched a partnership with fact-checking websites to flag fraudulent news and hoaxes; debunking organizations that joined the initiative included: Snopes.com, FactCheck.org, and PolitiFact. U.S. President Barack Obama said a disregard for facts created a \"dust cloud of nonsense\". Chief of the Secret Intelligence Service (MI6) Alex Younger called fake news propaganda online dangerous for democratic nations.\n\nSome fake news websites use website spoofing, structured to make visitors believe they are visiting trusted sources like ABC News or MSNBC. \"The New York Times\" defined \"fake news\" on the internet as fictitious articles deliberately fabricated to deceive readers, generally with the goal of profiting through clickbait. PolitiFact described fake news as fabricated content designed to fool readers and subsequently made viral through the Internet to crowds that increase its dissemination. Others have taken as constitutive the \"systemic features inherent in the design of the sources and channels through which fake news proliferates\", for example by playing to the audience's cognitive biases, heuristics, and partisan affiliation.\n\nFake news maintained a presence on the internet and in tabloid journalism in the years prior to the 2016 U.S. presidential election. Before the election campaign involving Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump, fake news had not impacted the election process and subsequent events to such a high degree. Subsequent to the 2016 election, the issue of fake news turned into a political weapon, with supporters of left-wing politics saying that supporters of right-wing politics spread false news, while the latter claimed that they were being \"censored\". Due to these back-and-forth complaints, the definition of fake news as used for such polemics has become more vague.\n\nUnethical journalistic practices existed in printed media for hundreds of years before the advent of the Internet. Yellow journalism, reporting from a standard which is devoid of morals and professional ethics, was pervasive during the time period in history known as the Gilded Age, and unethical journalists would engage in fraud by fabricating stories, interviews, and made-up names for scholars. During the 1890s, the spread of this unethical news sparked violence and conflicts. Both Joseph Pulitzer and William Randolph Hearst fomented yellow journalism in order to increase profits, which helped lead to misunderstandings which became partially responsible for the outset of the Spanish–American War in 1898. A radio broadcast from Gleiwitz by German soldier Karl Homack, pretending to be a Polish invader who had captured the station, was taken at face value by other stations, in Germany and abroad, fueling Adolf Hitler's declaration of war on Poland the next day.\nAccording to \"USA Today\", newspapers which have a history of commonly publishing fake news have included \"Globe\", \"Weekly World News\", and \"The National Enquirer\".\n\nProminent among fraudulent news sites include false propaganda created by individuals in the countries of Russia, Macedonia, Romania, and the United States.\n\nMuch of the fake news during the 2016 U.S. presidential election season was traced to adolescents in Macedonia, specifically Veles. It is a town of 50,000 in the middle of the country, with high unemployment, where the average wage is $4,800. The income from fake news was characterized by \"NBC News\" as a gold rush. Adults supported this income, saying they were happy the youths were working. The mayor of Veles, Slavcho Chadiev, said he was not bothered by their actions, as they were not against Macedonian law and their finances were taxable. Chadiev said he was happy if deception from Veles influenced the results of the 2016 U.S. election in favor of Trump.\n\n\"BuzzFeed News\" and \"The Guardian\" separately investigated and found teenagers in Veles created over 100 sites spreading fake news stories supportive of Donald Trump. The teenagers experimented with left slanted fake stories about Bernie Sanders, but found that pro-Trump fictions were more popular. Prior to the 2016 election the teenagers gained revenues from fake medical advice sites. One youth named Alex stated, in an August 2016 interview with \"The Guardian\", that this fraud would remain profitable regardless of who won the election. Alex explained he plagiarized material for articles by copying and pasting from other websites. This could net them thousands of dollars daily, but they averaged only a few thousand per month.\n\nThe Associated Press (AP) interviewed an 18-year-old in Veles about his tactics. A Google Analytics analysis of his traffic showed more than 650,000 views in one week. He plagiarized pro-Trump stories from a right-wing site called \"The Political Insider\". He said he did not care about politics, and published fake news to gain money and experience. The AP used DomainTools to confirm the teenager was behind fake sites, and determined there were about 200 websites tracked to Veles focused on U.S. news, many of which mostly contained plagiarized legitimate news to create an appearance of credibility.\n\n\"NBC News\" also interviewed an 18-year-old there. Dmitri (a pseudonym) was one of the most profitable fake news operators in town, and said about 300 people in Veles wrote for fake sites. Dmitri said he gained over $60,000 during the six months prior through doing this, more than both his parents' earnings. Dmitri said his main dupes were supporters of Trump. He said after the 2016 U.S. election he continued to earn significant amounts.\n\nThe 2020 U.S. election is their next project.\n\n\"Ending the Fed\", a popular purveyor of fraudulent reports, was run by a 24-year-old named Ovidiu Drobota out of Oradea, Romania, who boasted to \"Inc. magazine\" about being more popular than mainstream media. Established in March 2016, \"Ending the Fed\" was responsible for a false story in August 2016 that incorrectly stated Fox News had fired journalist Megyn Kelly—the story was briefly prominent on Facebook on its \"Trending News\" section. \"Ending the Fed\" held four out of the 10 most popular fake articles on Facebook related to the 2016 U.S. election in the prior three months before the election itself. The Facebook page for the website, called \"End the Feed\", had 350,000 \"likes\" in November 2016. After being contacted by \"Inc. magazine\", Drobota stated he was proud of the impact he had on the 2016 U.S. election in favor of his preferred candidate Donald Trump. According to Alexa Internet, \"Ending the Fed\" garnered approximately 3.4 million views over a 30-day-period in November 2016. Drobota stated the majority of incoming traffic is from Facebook. He said his normal line of work before starting \"Ending the Fed\" included web development and search engine optimization.\n\nBeginning in fall 2014, \"The New Yorker\" writer Adrian Chen performed a six-month investigation into Russian propaganda online by a group called the Internet Research Agency. Yevgeny Prigozhin (Evgeny Prigozhin), a close associate of Vladimir Putin, was behind the operation which hired hundreds of individuals to work in Saint Petersburg. The group was regarded as a \"troll farm\", a term used to refer to propaganda efforts controlling many accounts online with the aim of artificially providing a semblance of a grassroots organization. Chen reported that Internet trolling was used by the Russian government as a tactic largely after observing the social media organization of the 2011 protests against Putin.\n\nIn 2015, the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe released an analysis critical of disinformation campaigns by Russia masked as news. This was intended to interfere with Ukraine relations with Europe after the removal of former Ukraine president Viktor Yanukovych. According to \"Deutsche Welle\", similar tactics were used in the 2016 U.S. elections. The European Union created a taskforce to deal with Russian disinformation. The taskforce, East StratCom Team, had 11 people including Russian speakers. In November 2016, the EU voted to increase the group's funding. In November 2016, the European Parliament Committee on Foreign Affairs passed a resolution warning of the use by Russia of tools including: \"pseudo-news agencies ... social media and internet trolls\" as disinformation to weaken democratic values. The resolution requested EU analysts investigate, explaining member nations needed to be wary of disinformation. The resolution condemned Russian sources for publicizing \"absolutely fake\" news reports. The tally on 23 November 2016 passed by a margin of 304 votes to 179.\n\nThe United States Department of State planned to use a unit called the Counter-Disinformation Team, formed with the intention of combating disinformation from the Russian government, and that it was disbanded in September 2015 after department heads missed the scope of propaganda before the 2016 U.S. election. The U.S. State Department put eight months into developing the unit before scrapping it. It would have been a reboot of the Active Measures Working Group set up by Reagan Administration. The Counter-Disinformation Team was set up under the Bureau of International Information Programs. Work began in 2014, with the intention to combat propaganda from Russian sources such as the RT network (formerly known as Russia Today). U.S. Intelligence officials explained to former National Security Agency analyst and counterintelligence officer John R. Schindler that the Obama Administration decided to cancel the unit as they were afraid of antagonizing Russia. U.S. Undersecretary of State for Public Diplomacy Richard Stengel was point person for the unit before it was canceled. Stengel previously wrote about disinformation by RT.\n\nAdrian Chen observed a pattern in December 2015 where pro-Russian accounts became supportive of 2016 U.S. presidential candidate Donald Trump. Andrew Weisburd and Foreign Policy Research Institute fellow and senior fellow at the Center for Cyber and Homeland Security at George Washington University, Clint Watts, wrote for \"The Daily Beast\" in August 2016 that Russian propaganda fabricated articles were popularized by social media. Weisburd and Watts documented how disinformation spread from Russia Today and Sputnik News, \"the two biggest Russian state-controlled media organizations publishing in English\", to pro-Russian accounts on Twitter. Citing research by Chen, Weisburd and Watts compared Russian tactics during the 2016 U.S. election to Soviet Union Cold War strategies. They referenced the 1992 United States Information Agency report to Congress, which warned about Russian propaganda called active measures. They concluded social media made active measures easier. Institute of International Relations Prague senior fellow and scholar on Russian intelligence, Mark Galeotti, agreed the Kremlin operations were a form of active measures. The most strident Internet promoters of Trump were not U.S. citizens but paid Russian propagandists. \"The Guardian\" estimated their number to be in the \"low thousands\" in November 2016.\n\nWeisburd and Watts collaborated with colleague J. M. Berger and published a follow-up to their \"Daily Beast\" article in online magazine \"War on the Rocks\", titled: \"Trolling for Trump: How Russia is Trying to Destroy Our Democracy\". They researched 7,000 pro-Trump accounts over a two-and-a-half year period. Their research detailed trolling techniques to denigrate critics of Russian activities in Syria, and proliferate lies about Clinton's health. Watts said the propaganda targeted the alt-right, the right wing, and fascist groups. After each presidential debate, thousands of Twitter bots used hashtag #Trumpwon to change perceptions.\n\nIn November 2016 the Foreign Policy Research Institute stated Russian propaganda exacerbated criticism of Clinton and support for Trump. The strategy involved social media, paid Internet trolls, botnets, and websites in order to denigrate Clinton.\n\nComputer security company FireEye concluded Russia used social media as a weapon to influence the U.S. election. FireEye Chairman David DeWalt said the 2016 operation was a new development in cyberwarfare by Russia. FireEye CEO Kevin Mandia stated Russian cyberwarfare changed after fall 2014, from covert to overt tactics with decreased operational security. Bellingcat analyst Aric Toler explained fact-checking only drew further attention to the fake news problem.\n\nU.S. Intelligence agencies debated why Putin chose summer 2016 to escalate active measures. Prior to the election, U.S. national security officials said they were anxious about Russia tampering with U.S. news. Director of National Intelligence James R. Clapper said after the 2011–13 Russian protests, Putin lost self-confidence, and responded with the propaganda operation. Former CIA officer Patrick Skinner said the goal was to spread uncertainty. House Intelligence Committee Ranking Member Adam Schiff commented on Putin's aims, and said U.S. intelligence were concerned with Russian propaganda. Speaking about disinformation that appeared in Hungary, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, and Poland, Schiff said there was an increase of the same behavior in the U.S.\n\nU.S. intelligence officials stated in November 2016 they believed Russia engaged in spreading fake news, and the FBI released a statement saying they were investigating. Two U.S. intelligence officials each told \"BuzzFeed News\" they \"believe Russia helped disseminate fake and propagandized news as part of a broader effort to influence and undermine the presidential election\". The U.S. intelligence sources stated this involved \"dissemination of completely fake news stories\". They told \"BuzzFeed\" the FBI investigation specifically focused on why \"Russia had engaged in spreading false or misleading information\".\n\nFake news has influenced political discourse in multiple countries, including Germany, Indonesia and the Philippines, Sweden, China, Myanmar, and the United States.\n\nPoliticians in Austria dealt with the impact of fake news and its spread on social media after the 2016 presidential campaign in the country. In December 2016, a court in Austria issued an injunction on Facebook Europe, mandating it block negative postings related to Eva Glawischnig-Piesczek, Austrian Green Party Chairwoman. According to \"The Washington Post\" the postings to Facebook about her \"appeared to have been spread via a fake profile\" and directed derogatory epithets towards the Austrian politician. The derogatory postings were likely created by the identical fake profile that had previously been utilized to attack Alexander van der Bellen, who won the election for President of Austria.\n\nBrazil faced increasing influence from fake news after the 2014 re-election of President Dilma Rousseff and Rousseff's subsequent impeachment in August 2016. In the week surrounding one of the impeachment votes, 3 out of the 5 most-shared articles on Facebook in Brazil were fake. In 2015, reporter Tai Nalon resigned from her position at Brazilian newspaper \"Folha de S.Paulo\" in order to start the first fact-checking website in Brazil, called Aos Fatos (To The Facts). Nalon told \"The Guardian\" there was a great deal of fake news, and hesitated to compare the problem to that experienced in the U.S.\n\nFake news online was brought to the attention of Canadian politicians in November 2016, as they debated helping assist local newspapers. Member of Parliament for Vancouver Centre Hedy Fry specifically discussed fake news as an example of ways in which publishers on the Internet are less accountable than print media. Discussion in parliament contrasted increase of fake news online with downsizing of Canadian newspapers and the impact for democracy in Canada. Representatives from Facebook Canada attended the meeting and told members of Parliament they felt it was their duty to assist individuals gather data online.\n\nFake news during the 2016 U.S. election spread to China. Articles popularized within the United States were translated into Chinese and spread within China. The government of China used the growing problem of fake news as a rationale for increasing Internet censorship in China in November 2016. China then published an editorial in its Communist Party newspaper \"The Global Times\" called: \"Western Media's Crusade Against Facebook\", and criticized \"unpredictable\" political problems posed by freedoms enjoyed by users of Twitter, Google, and Facebook. China government leaders meeting in Wuzhen at the third World Internet Conference in November 2016 said fake news in the U.S. election justified adding more curbs to free and open use of the Internet. China Deputy Minister Ren Xianliang, official at the Cyberspace Administration of China, said increasing online participation led to \"harmful information\" and fraud. Kam Chow Wong, a former Hong Kong law enforcement official and criminal justice professor at Xavier University, praised attempts in the U.S. to patrol social media. \"The Wall Street Journal\" noted China's themes of Internet censorship became more relevant at the World Internet Conference due to the outgrowth of fake news.\n\nOfficials from 11 countries held a meeting in Helsinki in November 2016, in order to plan the formation of a center to combat disinformation cyber-warfare including spread of fake news on social media. The center is planned to be located in Helsinki and include efforts from 10 countries with participation from Sweden, Germany, Finland, and the U.S. Prime Minister of Finland Juha Sipilä planned to deal with the center in spring 2017 with a motion before the Parliament of Finland. Jori Arvonen, Deputy Secretary of State for EU Affairs, said cyberwarfare became an increased problem in 2016, and included hybrid cyber-warfare intrusions into Finland from Russia and Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant. Arvonen cited examples including fake news online, disinformation, and the little green men troops during the Ukrainian crisis.\n\nFrance saw an uptick in amounts of disinformation and propaganda, primarily in the midst of election cycles. \"Le Monde\" fact-checking division \"Les décodeurs\" was headed by Samuel Laurent, who told \"The Guardian\" in December 2016 the upcoming French presidential election campaign in spring 2017 would face problems from fake news. The country faced controversy regarding fake websites providing false information about abortion. The government's lower parliamentary body moved forward with intentions to ban such fake sites. Laurence Rossignol, women's minister for France, informed parliament though the fake sites look neutral, in actuality their intentions were specifically targeted to give women fake information. During the 10-year period preceding 2016, France was witness to an increase in popularity of far-right alternative news sources called the \"fachosphere\" (\"facho\" referring to fascist); known as the . According to sociologist Antoine Bevort, citing data from Alexa Internet rankings, the most consulted political websites in France included \"Égalité et Réconciliation\", \"\", and \"Les Moutons Enragés\". These sites increased skepticism towards mainstream media from both left and right perspectives.\n\nGerman Chancellor Angela Merkel lamented the problem of fraudulent news reports in a November 2016 speech, days after announcing her campaign for a fourth term as leader of her country. In a speech to the German parliament, Merkel was critical of such fake sites, saying they harmed political discussion. Merkel called attention to the need of government to deal with Internet trolls, bots, and fake news websites. She warned that such fraudulent news websites were a force increasing the power of populist extremism. Merkel called fraudulent news a growing phenomenon that might need to be regulated in the future. Germany's foreign intelligence agency Federal Intelligence Service Chief, , warned of the potential for cyberattacks by Russia in the 2017 German election. He said the cyberattacks would take the form of the intentional spread of disinformation. Kahl said the goal is to increase chaos in political debates. Germany's domestic intelligence agency Federal Office for the Protection of the Constitution Chief, Hans-Georg Maassen, said sabotage by Russian intelligence was a present threat to German information security.\n\nIndia had over 50 million accounts on the smartphone instant messenger Whatsapp in 2016. On November 8, 2016, India established a 2,000-rupee currency bill on the same day as the Indian 500 and 1,000 rupee note demonetisation. Fake news went viral over Whatsapp that the note came equipped with spying technology which tracked bills 120 meters below the earth. Finance Minister Arun Jaitley refuted the falsities, but not before they had spread to the country's mainstream news outlets. Prabhakar Kumar of the Indian media research agency CMS, told \"The Guardian\" India was harder hit by fake news because the country lacked media policy for verification. Law enforcement officers in India arrested individuals with charges of creating fictitious articles, predominantly if there was likelihood the articles inflamed societal conflict. \"BBC Monitoring\" cited \"Pakistan Today\" which noted an apt example of post-truth politics, a statement by politician and broadcaster Aamir Liaquat about the Kargil War between India and Pakistan. Liaquat defended the Pakistan Armed Forces actions in a doublethink statement akin to: \"we didn't invade Kargil and we taught the Indians a lesson when we invaded Kargil\". \"BBC Monitoring\" used this example to observe fake news reporting was prominent in the Middle East.\n\nFraudulent news has been particularly problematic in Indonesia and the Philippines, where social media has an outsized political influence. According to media analysts, developing countries with new access to social media and democracy felt the fake news problem to a larger extent. In some developing countries, Facebook gives away smartphone data free of charge for Facebook and media sources, but at the same time does not provide the user with Internet access to fact-checking websites.\n\nBetween October 1 and November 30, 2016, ahead of the Italian constitutional referendum, five out of ten referendum-related stories with most social media participation were hoaxes or inaccurate. Of the three stories with the most social media attention, two were fake. Prime Minister of Italy Matteo Renzi met with U.S. President Obama and leaders of Europe at a meeting in Berlin, Germany in November 2016, and spoke about the fake news problem. Renzi hosted discussions on Facebook Live in an effort to rebut falsities online. The influence became so heavy that a senior adviser to Renzi began a defamation complaint on an anonymous Twitter user who had used the screenname \"Beatrice di Maio\".\n\nThe Five Star Movement (M5S), an Italian political party founded by Beppe Grillo, managed fake news sites amplifying support for Russian news, propaganda, and inflamed conspiracy theories. The party's site \"TzeTze\" had 1.2 million Facebook fans and shared fake news and pieces supportive of Putin cited to Russia-owned sources including \"Sputnik News\". \"TzeTze\" plagiarized the Russian sources, and copied article titles and content from \"Sputnik\". TzeTze, another site critical of Renzi called \"La Cosa\", and a blog by Grillo—were managed by the company Casaleggio Associati which was started by Five Star Movement co-founder Gianroberto Casaleggio. Casaleggio's son Davide Casaleggio owns and manages \"TzeTze\" and \"La Cosa\", and medical advice website \"La Fucina\" which markets anti-vaccine conspiracy theories and medical cure-all methods. Grillo's blog, Five Star Movement fake sites use the same IP addresses, Google Analytics and Google Adsense.\n\nCyberwarfare against Renzi increased, and Italian newspaper \"La Stampa\" brought attention to false stories by \"Russia Today\" which wrongly asserted a pro-Renzi rally in Rome was actually an anti-Renzi rally. In October 2016, the Five Star Movement disseminated a video from Kremlin-aligned \"Russia Today\" which falsely reported displaying thousands of individuals protesting the 4 December 2016 scheduled referendum in Italy—when in fact the video that went on to 1.5 million views showed supporters of the referendum. President of the Italian Chamber of Deputies, Laura Boldrini, stated: \"Fake news is a critical issue and we can’t ignore it. We have to act now.\" Boldrini met on 30 November 2016 with vice president of public policy in Europe for Facebook Richard Allan to voice concerns about fake news. She said Facebook needed to admit they were a media company.\n\nAmid the 2018 local elections in Moldova a doctored video with mistranslated subtitles purported to show that the a pro-Europe party candidate for mayor of Chisinau (pop. 685,900), the capital of Moldova had proposed to lease the city of Chisinau to the UAE for 50 years. The video was watched more than 300,000 times on Facebook and almost 250,000 times on the Russian social network site OK.ru, which is popular among Moldova's Russian-speaking population. \n\nIn 2015, fake stories using unrelated photographs and fraudulent captions were shared online in support of the Rohingya. Fake news negatively affected individuals in Myanmar, leading to a rise in violence against Muslims in the country. Online participation surged from one percent to 20 percent of Myanmar's total populace from 2014–2016. Fake stories from Facebook were reprinted in paper periodicals called \"Facebook\" and \"The Internet\". False reporting related to practitioners of Islam in the country was directly correlated with increased attacks on people of the religion in Myanmar. Fake news fictitiously stated believers in Islam acted out in violence at Buddhist locations. \"BuzzFeed News\" documented a direct relationship between the fake news and violence against Muslim people. It noted countries that were relatively newer to Internet exposure were more vulnerable to the problems of fake news and fraud.\n\nKhawaja Muhammad Asif, the Minister of Defence of Pakistan, threatened to nuke Israel on Twitter after a false story claiming that Avigdor Lieberman, the Israeli Ministry of Defense, said \"If Pakistan send ground troops into Syria on any pretext, we will destroy this country with a nuclear attack.\"\n\nPolish historian noted fake news websites had infiltrated Poland through anti-establishment and right-wing sources that copied content from \"Russia Today\". Targalski observed there existed about 20 specific fake news websites in Poland which spread Russian disinformation in the form of fake news. One example cited was fake news that Ukraine announced the Polish city of Przemyśl as occupied Polish land.\n\nThe Swedish Security Service issued a report in 2015 identifying propaganda from Russia infiltrating Sweden with the objective to amplify pro-Russian propaganda and inflame societal conflicts. The Swedish Civil Contingencies Agency (MSB), part of the Ministry of Defence of Sweden, identified fake news reports targeting Sweden in 2016 which originated from Russia. Swedish Civil Contingencies Agency official Mikael Tofvesson stated a pattern emerged where views critical of Sweden were constantly repeated. The MSB identified \"Russia Today\" and \"Sputnik News\" as significant fake news purveyors. As a result of growth in this propaganda in Sweden, the MSB planned to hire six additional security officials to fight back against the campaign of fraudulent information.\n\nIn a report in December 2015 by \"The China Post\", a fake video shared online showed people a light show purportedly made at the Shihmen Reservoir. The Northern Region Water Resources Office confirmed there was no light show at the reservoir and the event had been fabricated. The fraud led to an increase in tourist visits to the actual attraction.\n\n\"Deutsche Welle\" interviewed the founder of Stopfake.org in 2014 about the website's efforts to debunk fake news in Ukraine, including media portrayal of the Ukrainian crisis. Co-founder Margot Gontar began the site in March 2014, and it was aided by volunteers. In 2014, \"Deutsche Welle\" awarded the fact-checker website with the People's Choice Award for Russian in its ceremony The BOBs, recognizing excellence in advocacy on the Internet. Gontar highlighted an example debunked by the website, where a fictitious \"Doctor Rozovskii\" supposedly told \"The Guardian\" pro-Ukraine individuals refused to allow him to tend to injured in fighting with Russian supporters in 2014. Stopfake.org exposed the event was fabricated—there actually was no individual named \"Doctor Rozovskii\", and found the Facebook photo distributed with the incident was of a different individual from Russia with a separate identity. Former Ukraine president Viktor Yanukovych's ouster from power created instability, and in 2015 the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe concluded Russian disinformation campaigns used fake news to disrupt relations between Europe and Ukraine. Russian-financed news spread disinformation after the conflict in Ukraine motivated the European Union to found the European External Action Service specialist task force to counter the propaganda.\n\nLabour MP Michael Dugher was assigned by Deputy Leader of the Labour Party Tom Watson in November 2016 to investigate the impact of fake news spread through social media. Watson said they would work with Twitter and Facebook to root out clear-cut circumstances of \"downright lies\". Watson wrote an article for \"The Independent\" where he suggested methods to respond to fake news, including Internet-based societies which fact-check in a manner modeled after Wikipedia. Minister for Culture, Matthew Hancock, stated the British government would investigate the impact of fake news and its pervasiveness on social media websites. Watson stated he welcomed the investigation into fake news by the government. On 8 December 2016, Chief of the Secret Intelligence Service (MI6) Alex Younger delivered a speech to journalists at the MI6 headquarters where he called fake news and propaganda damaging to democracy. Younger said the mission of MI6 was to combat propaganda and fake news in order to deliver to his government a strategic advantage in the information warfare arena, and assist other nations including Europe. He called such methods of fake news propaganda online as a \"fundamental threat to our sovereignty\". Younger said all nations that hold democratic values should feel the same worry over fake news.\n\nIn November 2016, \"Private Eye\" official website appeared on a controversial list of over 150 \"fake news\" websites compiled by Melissa Zimdars, a US lecturer, despite the website only containing the \"Eye\" investigative journalism and not its satirical content. Zimdars later removed the website from her list, after the \"Eye\" had contacted her for clarification.\n\nFraudulent stories during the 2016 U.S. presidential election popularized on Facebook included a viral post that Pope Francis had endorsed Donald Trump, and another that actor Denzel Washington \"backs Trump in the most epic way possible\". Donald Trump's son and campaign surrogate Eric Trump, top national security adviser Michael T. Flynn, and then-campaign managers Kellyanne Conway and Corey Lewandowski shared fake news stories during the campaign. Alternet reported that Trump himself had been the source of some of the related misinformation over the years.\n\nAfter the 2016 election, Republican politicians and conservative media began to appropriate the term by using it to describe any news they see as hostile to their agenda, according to \"The New York Times\", which cited Breitbart News, Rush Limbaugh and supporters of Donald Trump as dismissing true mainstream news reports, and any news they do not like as \"fake news\".\n\nThe Russian state-operated newswire RIA Novosti, known as Sputnik International, reported fake news and fabricated statements by White House Press Secretary Josh Earnest. RIA Novosti falsely reported on 7 December 2016 that Earnest stated sanctions for Russia were on the table related to Syria. RIA Novosti falsely quoted Earnest as saying: \"There are a number of things that are to be considered, including some of the financial sanctions that the United States can administer in coordination with our allies. I would definitely not rule that out.\" However, the word \"sanctions\" was never used by the Press Secretary. Russia was discussed in eight instances during the press conference, but never about sanctions. The press conference focused solely on Russian air raids in Syria towards rebels fighting President of Syria Bashar al-Assad in Aleppo.\n\nMembers of the U.S. Senate Intelligence Committee traveled to Ukraine and Poland in March 2016 and heard about Russian operations to influence internal Ukrainian matters. Senator Angus King recalled they were informed about Russia \"planting fake news stories\" during elections. On 30 November 2016 seven members of the Senate Intelligence Committee asked President Obama to publicize information on Russia's role in spreading disinformation in the U.S. election. On 30 November 2016, legislators approved a measure within the National Defense Authorization Act to finance the U.S. State Department to act against foreign propaganda. The initiative was developed through a bipartisan bill, the Countering Foreign Propaganda and Disinformation Act, written by U.S. Senators Republican Rob Portman and Democrat Chris Murphy. Republican U.S. Senators stated they planned to hold hearings and investigate Russian influence on the 2016 U.S. elections. By doing so they went against the preference of incoming Republican President-elect Donald Trump, who downplayed any potential Russian meddling in the election. Senate Armed Services Committee Chairman John McCain, Senate Intelligence Committee Chairman Richard Burr, U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Bob Corker, and Senator Lindsey Graham all planned investigations in the 115th U.S. Congress session.\n\nU.S. President Barack Obama commented on fake news online in a speech the day before Election Day in 2016, saying social media spread lies and created a \"dust cloud of nonsense\". Obama commented again on the problem after the election: \"if we can't discriminate between serious arguments and propaganda, then we have problems.\" On December 9, 2016, President Obama ordered U.S. Intelligence Community to conduct a complete review of the Russian propaganda operation. In his year-end press conference on December 16, 2016, President Obama criticized a hyper-partisan atmosphere for enabling the proliferation of fake news.\n\nIn November 2016, fake news sites and Internet forums falsely implicated the restaurant Comet Ping Pong and Democratic Party figures as part of a fictitious child trafficking ring, which was dubbed \"Pizzagate\". The rumor was widely debunked by sources such as the Metropolitan Police Department of the District of Columbia, fact-checking website Snopes.com, \"The New York Times\", and Fox News. The restaurant's owners were harassed and threatened, and increased their security. On 4 December 2016, an individual from Salisbury, North Carolina, walked into the restaurant to \"self-investigate\" this conspiracy theory. He brought a semi-automatic rifle, and fired shots before being arrested; no one was injured. The suspect told police that he planned to \"self-investigate\" the conspiracy theory, and was charged with assault with a dangerous weapon, carrying a pistol without a license, unlawful discharge of a firearm, and carrying a rifle or shotgun outside the home or business. After the incident, future National Security Advisor Michael T. Flynn and his son Michael G. Flynn were criticized by many reporters for spreading the rumors. Two days after the shooting, Trump fired Michael G. Flynn from his transition team in connection with Flynn's Twitter posting of fake news. Days after the attack, Hillary Clinton spoke out on the dangers of fake news in a tribute speech to retiring Senator Harry Reid at the U.S. Capitol, and called the problem an epidemic.\n\nFact-checking websites FactCheck.org, PolitiFact.com and Snopes.com authored guides on how to respond to fraudulent news. FactCheck.org advised readers to check the source, author, date, and headline of publications. They recommended their colleagues Snopes.com, \"The Washington Post\" Fact Checker, and PolitiFact.com. FactCheck.org admonished consumers to be wary of confirmation bias. PolitiFact.com used a \"Fake news\" tag so readers could view all stories Polifact had debunked. Snopes.com warned readers social media was used as a harmful tool by fraudsters. \"The Washington Post\"s \"The Fact Checker\" manager Glenn Kessler wrote that all fact-checking sites saw increased visitors during the 2016 election cycle. Unique visitors to The Fact Checker increased five-fold from the 2012 election. Will Moy, director of London-based fact-checker Full Fact, said debunking must take place over a sustained period to be effective. Full Fact worked with Google to help automate fact-checking.\n\nFactCheck.org former director Brooks Jackson said media companies devoted increased focus to the importance of debunking fraud during the 2016 election. FactCheck.org partnered with CNN's Jake Tapper in 2016 to examine the veracity candidate statements. Angie Drobnic Holan, editor of PolitiFact.com, cautioned media companies chiefs must be supportive of debunking, as it often provokes hate mail and extreme responses from zealots. In December 2016, PolitiFact announced fake news was its selection for \"Lie of the Year\". PolitiFact explained its choice for the year: \"In 2016, the prevalence of political fact abuse – promulgated by the words of two polarizing presidential candidates and their passionate supporters – gave rise to a spreading of fake news with unprecedented impunity.\" PolitiFact called fake news a significant symbol of a culture accepting of post-truth politics.\n\nIn the aftermath of the 2016 U.S. election, Google and Facebook, faced scrutiny regarding the impact of fake news. The top result on Google for election results was to a fake site. \"70 News\" had fraudulently written an incorrect headline and article that Trump won the popular vote against Clinton. Google later stated that prominence of the fake site in search results was a mistake. By 14 November, the \"70 News\" result was the second link shown when searching for results of the election. When asked shortly after the election whether fake news influenced election results, Google CEO Sundar Pichai responded: \"Sure\" and went on to emphasize the importance of stopping the spread of fraudulent sites. On 14 November 2016, Google responded to the problem of fraudulent sites by banning such companies from profiting on advertising from traffic through its program AdSense. Google previously had a policy for denying ads for dieting ripoffs and counterfeit merchandise. Google stated upon the announcement they would work to ban advertisements from sources that lie about their purpose, content, or publisher. The ban is not expected to apply to news satire sites like \"The Onion\", although some satirical sites may be inadvertently blocked under the new system. \n\nOn April 25, 2017 Ben Gomes wrote a blog post announcing changes to the search algorithms that would stop the \"spread of blatantly misleading, low quality, offensive or downright false information.\" On July 27, 2017, the World Socialist Web Site published data that showed a significant drop after the April 25 announcement in Google referrals to left-wing and anti-war websites, including the ACLU, Alternet, and Counterpunch.. The World Socialist Web Site insists that the \"fake news\" charge is a cover to remove anti-establishment websites from public access, and believes the algorithm changes are infringing on the democratic right to free speech.\n\nOne day after Google took action, Facebook decided to block fake sites from advertising there. Facebook said they would ban ads from sites with deceptive content, including fake news, and review publishers for compliance. These steps by both Google and Facebook intended to deny ad revenue to fraudulent news sites; neither company took actions to prevent dissemination of false stories in search engine results pages or web feeds. Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg called the notion that fraudulent news impacted the 2016 election a \"crazy idea\" and denied that his platform influenced the election. He stated that 99% of Facebook's content was neither fake news nor a hoax. Zuckerberg said that Facebook is not a media company. Zuckerberg advised users to check the fact-checking website Snopes.com whenever they encounter fake news on Facebook.\n\nTop staff members at Facebook did not feel simply blocking ad revenue from fraudulent sites was a strong enough response, and they made an executive decision and created a secret group to deal with the issue themselves. In response to Zuckerberg's first statement that fraudulent news did not impact the 2016 election, the secret Facebook group disputed this notion, saying fake news was rampant on their website during the election cycle. The secret task force included dozens of Facebook employees.\n\nFacebook faced criticism after its decision to revoke advertising revenues from fraudulent news providers, and not take further action. After negative media coverage including assertions that fraudulent news gave the 2016 U.S. presidential election to Trump, Zuckerberg posted a second time about it on 18 November 2016. The post was a reversal of his earlier comments on the matter where he had discounted the impact of fraudulent news. Zuckerberg said there it was difficult to filter out fraudulent news because he desired open communication. Measures considered and not implemented by Facebook included adding an ability for users to tag questionable material, automated checking tools, and third-party confirmation. The 18 November post did not announce any concrete actions the company would definitively take, or when such measures would be put into usage.\n\nNational Public Radio observed the changes being considered by Facebook to identify fraud constituted progress for the company into a new media entity. On 19 November 2016, BuzzFeed advised Facebook users they could report posts from fraudulent sites. Users could choose the report option: \"I think it shouldn't be on Facebook\", followed by: \"It's a false news story.\" In November 2016, Facebook began assessing use of warning labels on fake news. The rollout was at first only available to a few users in a testing phase. A sample warning read: \"This website is not a reliable news source. Reason: Classification Pending\". \"TechCrunch\" analyzed the new feature during the testing phase and surmised it may have a tendency towards false positives.\n\nFake news proliferation on Facebook had a negative financial impact for the company. Brian Wieser of Pivotal Research predicted that revenues could decrease by two percentage points due to the concern over fake news and loss of advertising dollars. Shortly after Mark Zuckerberg's second statement on fake news proliferation on his website, Facebook decided to engage in assisting the government of China with a version of its software in the country to allow increased censorship by the government. \"Barron's\" contributor William Pesek was highly critical of this move, writing by porting its fake news conundrum to China, Facebook would become a tool in that Communist Party's General Secretary Xi Jinping's efforts to increase censorship.\n\nSociety of Professional Journalists president Lynn Walsh said in November 2016 that they would reach out to Facebook to assist weeding out fake news. Walsh said Facebook should evolve and admit it functioned as a media company. On 17 November 2016, the Poynter International Fact-Checking Network (IFCN) published an open letter on the Poynter Institute website to Mark Zuckerberg, imploring him to utilize fact-checkers to identify fraud on Facebook. Signatories to the 2016 letter to Zuckerberg featured a global representation of fact-checking groups, including: Africa Check, FactCheck.org, PolitiFact.com, and \"The Washington Post\" Fact Checker. In his second post on the matter on 18 November 2016, Zuckerberg responded to the fraudulent news problem by suggesting usage of fact-checkers. He specifically identified fact-checking website Snopes.com, and pointed out that Facebook monitors links to such debunkers in reply comments to determine which original posts were fraudulent.\n\nOn 15 December 2016, Facebook announced more specifics in its efforts to combat fake news and hoaxes on its site. The company said it would form a partnership with fact-checking groups that had joined the Poynter International Fact-Checking Network fact-checkers' code of principles, to help debunk fraud on the site. It was the first instance Facebook had ever given third-party entities highlighted featuring in its News Feed, a significant motivator of web traffic online. The fact-checking organizations partnered with Facebook in order to confirm whether or not links posted from one individual to another on the site were factual or fraudulent. Facebook did not finance the fact-checkers, and acknowledged they could see increased traffic to their sites from the partnership.\n\nFact-checking organizations that joined Facebook's initiative included: ABC News, \"The Washington Post\", Snopes.com, FactCheck.org, PolitiFact, and the Associated Press. Fraudulent articles will receive a warning tag: \"disputed by 3rd party fact-checkers\". The company planned to start with obvious cases of hoaxes shared specifically for fraudulent purposes to gain money for the purveyor of fake news. Users may still share such tagged articles, and they will show up farther down in the news feed with an accompanying warning. Facebook will employ staff researchers to determine whether website spoofing has occurred, for example \"washingtonpost.co\" instead of the real washingtonpost.com. In a post on 15 December, Mark Zuckerberg acknowledged the changing nature of Facebook: \"I think of Facebook as a technology company, but I recognize we have a greater responsibility than just building technology that information flows through. While we don't write the news stories you read and share, we also recognize we're more than just a distributor of news. We're a new kind of platform for public discourse -- and that means we have a new kind of responsibility to enable people to have the most meaningful conversations, and to build a space where people can be informed.\"\n\n\"New York\" magazine contributor Brian Feldman responded to an article by media communications professor Melissa Zimdars, and used her list to create a Google Chrome extension that would warn users about fraudulent news sites. He invited others to use his code and improve upon it. Upworthy co-founder and \"The Filter Bubble\" author Eli Pariser launched an open-source model initiative on 17 November 2016 to address false news. Pariser began a Google Document to collaborate with others online on how to lessen the phenomenon of fraudulent news. Pariser called his initiative: \"Design Solutions for Fake News\". Pariser's document included recommendations for a ratings organization analogous to the Better Business Bureau, and a database on media producers in a format like Wikipedia. Writing for \"Fortune\", Matthew Ingram agreed with the idea that Wikipedia could serve as a helpful model to improve Facebook's analysis of potentially fake news. Ingram concluded Facebook could benefit from a social network form of fact-checking similar to Wikipedia's methods while incorporating debunking websites such as PolitiFact.com.\n\nPope Francis, the leader of the Roman Catholic Church, spoke out against fake news in an interview with the Belgian Catholic weekly \"\" on 7 December 2016. The Pope had prior experience being the subject of a fake news website fiction—during the 2016 U.S. election cycle, he was falsely said to support Donald Trump for president. Pope Francis said the singular worst thing the news media could do was spreading disinformation and that amplifying fake news instead of educating society was a sin. He compared salacious reporting of scandals, whether true or not, to coprophilia and the consumption of it to coprophagy. The Pope said that he did not intend to offend with his strong words, but emphasized that \"a lot of damage can be done\" when the truth is disregarded and slander is spread.\n\nJamie Condliffe wrote that banning ad revenue from fraudulent sites was not aggressive enough action by Facebook to deal with the problem, and did not prevent fake news from appearing in Facebook news feeds. Dartmouth College political scientist Brendan Nyhan criticized Facebook for not doing more to combat fake news amplification. Indiana University computer science professor Filippo Menczer commented on measures by Google and Facebook to deny fraudulent sites revenue, saying it was a good step to reduce motivation for fraudsters. Menczer's research team engaged in developing an online tool titled: Hoaxy — to see the pervasiveness of unconfirmed assertions as well as related debunking on the Internet.\n\nZeynep Tufekci wrote critically about Facebook's stance on fraudulent news sites, stating that fraudulent websites in Macedonia profited handsomely off false stories about the 2016 U.S. election. Tufecki wrote that Facebook's algorithms, and structure exacerbated the impact of echo chambers and increased fake news blight. Merrimack College assistant professor of media studies Melissa Zimdars wrote an article \"False, Misleading, Clickbait-y and Satirical 'News' Sources\" in which she advised how to determine if a fraudulent source was a fake news site. Zimdars identified strange domain names, lack of attribution, poor layout, use of all caps, and URLs ending in \"lo\" or \"com.co\" as red flags. Zimdars recommended checking the \"About Us\" page, and considering whether reputable news outlets have reported the same story.\n\nStanford University professors Sam Wineburg and Sarah McGrew authored a 2016 study analyzing students' ability to discern fraudulent news from factual. The study took place over a year-long period of time, and involved a sample size of over 7,800 responses from university, secondary and middle school students in 12 states within the United States. They were surprised at the consistency with which students thought fraudulent news reports were factual. The study found 82% of students in middle school were unable to differentiate between an advertisement denoted as sponsored content from an actual news article. The authors concluded the solution was to educate online media consumers to themselves behave like fact-checkers — and actively question the veracity of all sources.\n\nScientist Emily Willingham has proposed applying the scientific method to fake news analysis. She had previously written on the topic of differentiating science from pseudoscience, and proposed applying that logic to fake news. She calls the recommended steps Observe, Question, Hypothesize, Analyze data, Draw conclusion, and Act on results. Willingham suggested a hypothesis of \"This is real news\", and then forming a strong set of questions to attempt to disprove the hypothesis. These tests included: check the URL, date of the article, evaluate reader bias and writer bias, double-check the evidence, and verify the sources cited. University of Connecticut philosophy professor Michael P. Lynch said that a troubling number of individuals make determinations relying upon the most recent piece of information they've consumed. He said the greater issue however was that fake news could make people less likely to believe news that really is true. Lynch summed up the thought process of such individuals, as \"...ignore the facts because nobody knows what’s really true anyway.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35937252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35937252", "title": "Giants of Rock", "text": "Giants of Rock\n\nGiants of Rock was an annual hard rock and heavy metal festival in Hämeenlinna, Finland. It was held from 1987 to 1992 at Ahvenisto Race Circuit. The 1992 festival caused financial losses for organizers due to cancellations of some headlining acts. The last festival was arranged in 1994 as \"Power of Rock\".\n\nIn 1988 Motörhead recorded their performance. It was later released as the band's second live album Nö Sleep at All.\n\n15 August 1987\n2 July 1988\n1 July 1989\n28 July 1990\n6 July 1991\nPower of Rock, 2 July 1994\n\n"}
{"id": "14467150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14467150", "title": "HeliRussia", "text": "HeliRussia\n\nHeliRussia is Russia's first International exhibition of Helicopter Industry held in Moscow, Russia at Crocus Expo exhibition center. The first show, HeliRussia 2008, was held on May 15–17 2008.\n\nThe world achievements in helicopter industry were demonstrated in all aspects, from design to manufacture and operation, on 10 thousand square meter area of the exhibition pavilions and open platforms. Prominent Russian companies like the Mil Moscow Helicopter Plant, Kamov, Kazan Helicopter Plant, Rostvertol, RET Krondshtadt, as well as representative offices of Eurocopter, Bell Helicopter Textron and other companies participated in HeliRussia 2008.\n\nHeliRussia is an important event in Russian business. The ongoing economic boom in Russia and the growth in paying capacity of the Russian organizations and individuals provide for the steady growth in demand for helicopter-related services.\n\nThe exhibition was held by the Russian Helicopter Industry Association with the support of the RF Federal Industrial Agency, the United Industrial Corporation Oboronprom and OJSC Helicopters of Russia.\n\n"}
{"id": "38380347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38380347", "title": "Holy Week in Mexico", "text": "Holy Week in Mexico\n\nHoly Week in Mexico is an important religious observance as well as important vacation period. It is preceded by several observances such as Lent and Carnival, as well as an observance of a day dedicated to the Virgin of the Sorrows, as well as a mass marking the abandonment of Jesus by the disciples. Holy Week proper begins on Palm Sunday, with the palms used on this day often woven into intricate designs. In many places processions, masses and other observances can happen all week, but are most common on , Good Friday, Holy Saturday and Easter Sunday, with just about every community marking the crucifixion of Jesus in some way on Good Friday. Holy Saturday is marked by the Burning of Judas, especially in the center and south of the country, with Easter Sunday usually marked by a mass as well as the ringing of church bells. Mexico’s Holy Week traditions are mostly based on those from Spain, brought over with the Spanish conquest of the Aztec Empire, but observances have developed variations in different parts of the country due to the evangelization process in the colonial period and indigenous influences. Several locations have notable observances related to Holy Week including Iztapalapa in Mexico City, Taxco, San Miguel de Allende and San Luis Potosí.\n\nHoly Week is one of the most widely celebrated and important religious observances in Mexico. Almost all towns and cities in the country have some kind of public observance during a two-week period that starts from Palm Sunday at least to Easter Sunday and can extend into the week after. Mexican television features movies, documentaries and other shows focused on the religious event and other topics related to the Catholic faith, especially in Latin America. The U.S. traditions surrounding Easter have made very little inroads in Mexico, with icons such as the Easter Bunny and events such as Easter egg hunts limited to supermarkets and areas right along the border with the United States. Like most Mexican Catholic traditions, those related to Holy Week and Easter are based on the Spanish Catholic calendar. Holy Week is preceded by Lent and Ash Wednesday, which itself is preceded by Carnival . However, a number of traditions and customs have developed over the centuries. As most Holy Week related events occur outside and in large gatherings, “antojitos” (roughly translated as Mexican street food or snacks) is the most associated with the holiday. Prior to Easter Sunday, Lenten dietary rules are still in effect for the observant, so popular street foods include pambazos with cheese, fried fish, fried plantains, hot cakes/pancakes with various toppings. Candies are a popular street food at this time, especially traditional and regional ones made from coconut, tamarind and various fruits. Holy Week was also the traditional start of the ice cream and flavored ice season, which was originally made in Mexico City with ice and snow brought down from the Popocatepetl volcano. Ice cream fairs are still held at this time. Today’s frozen treats include ice cream in tubs, as well as popsicles made from both fruit and cream, as well as snow cones called “raspados.” Another popular refreshment is called “aguas frescas” or sugared drinks made from fruit or other natural flavorings such as tamarind or hibiscus flowers. The reason for the popularity of both frozen desserts and flavored drinks is that spring to early summer is generally the warmest part of the year in many parts of Mexico.\n\nJust before Holy Week proper, there are two events celebrated in various parts of the country. The first is the feast of the Virgin of Sorrows (Virgen de los Dolores). This occurs the Friday before Good Friday and focuses on the pain and sacrifice of Mary knowing that Jesus had to die to save mankind. This image of the Virgin is usually dressed in purple and altars are set up to her on this day. On the Wednesday before Easter, a mass called the “vespers of darkness” (los matines de la tinieblas) recalls the disciples’ abandonment of Jesus. The altar of the church will have a candelabra with fifteen candles, with one candle extinguished after the singing of a Psalm until only the center candle, representing Jesus, remains lit.\n\nHoly Week begins on Palm Sunday, and many communities have special masses dedicated to the blessing of palm fronds. These fronds are often woven into crosses and other designs, sometimes quite intricate and brought by parishioners to have holy water sprinkled on them. Some fronds are later burned and the ashes saved for marking foreheads on the following Ash Wednesday. Maundy Thursday is the beginning of the celebration of Easter proper. Cathedrals in the country have special masses celebrated by bishops, with “chrism” a sacred oil used in the sacraments, is consecrated. Many churches also hold reenactments of the Last Supper, but Masses usually omit the exchanges of greeting of peace as a reminder of Judas’ betrayal of Jesus. From this day through Holy Saturday, church bells are traditionally not rung.\n\nReenactments of the day of crucifixion take place in almost all communities in Mexico on Good Friday and for a number these traditions extends to a passion play enacted most or all of Holy Week. The focus of these reenactments focus on the carrying of the cross by Jesus and his crucifixion as told by the Stations of the Cross. In major productions, hundreds of people participate including the entrance of Jesus into Jerusalem, the Last Supper, the Betrayal, the Judgment, the procession with the cross, the Crucifixion up to the Resurrection .\n\nHoly Saturday is dedicated to vigil as the waiting time between Jesus’ death and resurrection. Statues of the Virgin Mary are dressed in black as a symbol of mourning. Frequently there is a solemn evening mass during which participants hold lighted candles. This is then followed by an event called the Burning of Judas mostly practiced in central and southern Mexico. Originally, it was the burning in effigy of the disciple that betrayed Jesus, a custom introduced to Mexico as part of the evangelization process. During the Mexican Inquisition, effigies were also burnt to mock and protest the burning of people at the stake. These effigies were banned but the idea of protest was transferred to the Judas figures. The Burning of Judas continues in other places but it has been banned in Mexico City because of safety and pollution concerns. The figures are still made in the city but many are now collector’s items.\n\nEaster Sunday is celebrated with mass which is usually crowded. Church bells will again ring and the plazas around the churches after Mass will be crowded with churchgoers as well as street vendors selling food, toys, balloons and more.\n\nIn many areas, processions, masses and other activities extend for another week. Mexico’s Holy Week traditions are based on Spanish ones brought over during the Conquest, along with those created during the evangelization process with some indigenous influence. This has resulted in variations in the celebrations in various regions and towns. A number of these variations have become well known, such as those in Taxco, San Luis Potosí, San Miguel de Allende, Ajijic, and Iztapalapa in Mexico City. Other communities with notable celebrations include Pátzcuaro, Tzintzuntzan, Querétaro, Huajicori, Mesa de Nayar, Creel, Cusarare (Chihuahua), San Ignacio Arareco (Chihuahua), Jerez, Atlixco, Temascalcingo, San Juan Chamula and Zinacantán.\n\nThe most famous passion play in Mexico is held in Iztapalapa in the east of Mexico City. This production involves over 4000 local residents (all of which are born in Iztapalapa) which perform scenes related to the last week of Jesus’s life from Palm Sunday to Good Friday. The production has been done each year since 1843 and today the spectacle attracts over 2 million spectators, mostly Mexican. The play is not a strictly Biblical production as there are a number of characters such as a spy, a dog, a “wandering Jew” and others that are unique to this event. When Christ is captured, Aztec drums and flutes are played. Pontius Pilate sentences Jesus on the town of Iztapalapa’s main square then whipped. He then carries a cross from this square to the Cerro de la Estrella on a route over mile long through eight of the borough’s oldest neighborhoods. The most important event is the procession with the cross and the crucifixion scene portrayed on Cerro de la Estrella. Many others called “Nazarenes” follow, carrying their own crosses and wearing real crowns of thorns like Jesus. The play ends with Judas hanging himself after the crucifixion.\n\nAnother important and unique commemoration of Holy Week occurs in Taxco in the state of Guerrero. It begins on Palm Sunday, with a large wooden statue of Christ traveling on a donkey from the town of Tehuilotepec about four miles to the center of Taxco. The image is preceded in its entrance to Taxco by children on bicycles and residents portraying the Twelve Apostles as well as drummer. Processions continue all week, led by very young children dressed as angels, immediately followed by older girls dressed in white with white veils, walking barefoot and swinging incense burners containing copal. In these processions, Biblical figures related to the Passion of Christ are represented by wooden statues from the town and surrounding villages, carried on litters, accompanied by musical instruments playing melodies with pre Hispanic influence. The most notable aspect of these processions are the penitents who inflict pain and suffering on themselves during the processions. While these displays have moderated or disappeared in other parts of Mexico, they remain severe in Taxco. Penitents form into three brotherhoods called the Animas or Bent Ones, the Encruzados (the Crossed) and the Flagelantes (Flagellants). All wear black robes, a horsehair belt and a hood to hide their identity. The Animas walk in procession bent at the waist, never straightening, carrying relics, crosses or candles. This is the only brotherhood that admits women, who are distinguished by lighter chains attached to their ankles. The Encruzados carry a bundle of thorned blackberry canes of up to 100 pounds tied onto their shirtless back and arms with a candle in each hand. The Flagelantes are also bare backed and carry a large wooden cross, in their arms, in their hands are a rosary and a whip with metal points. At appointed places, the penitent hands off the cross, kneels and whips his back. One Maundy Thursday, a scene recreating the Garden of Gethsemane is set up at the Santa Prisca church and on Friday, the statue of Jesus praying is “captured” and “jailed.” On Friday it is “crucified” inside the church with the penitent brotherhoods looking on. A candlelight vigil is on Holy Saturday ending late in the night with the announcement that Christ has risen. Easter Sunday is quiet.\n\nSan Miguel de Allende is noted for its observances of Holy Week, and for two weeks there is at least one procession per day. The focus for much of the pageantry is the “El Señor de la Columna” Christ image, which is brought from the sanctuary of Atotonilco and paraded among the various churches of the area from the Sunday before Palm Sunday to the Wednesday after Easter when it returns to Atotonilco. On Good Friday, this image is carried to the parish church of San Miguel, accompanied by residents dressed as the disciples and Roman soldiers. At noon, images of the Holy Family, the disciples, Mary Magdalene and John the Baptist are also in procession and a passion play is performed. At dark, the images reappear in procession but dressed in black and accompanied by measured drumbeats. During this time, concheros dancers sporadically appear, especially in the main square of San Miguel. The Burning of Judas occurs on Easter Sunday, not Holy Saturday.\n\nA number of cities and towns hold Processions of Silence, where people march on the street holding candles in silence. The custom comes from the Spanish city of Seville . The most important of these processions is held in the city of San Luis Potosí on Good Friday. It begins at 8pm at the Plaza del Carmen, with actors dressed as Roman troops playing drums and bugle. This guard then knocks on the door of the Carmen Church. The beginning of the procession leaves the church, carrying crosses and paschal candles. They are joined by more as they move onto the streets, dressed in white robes with cone shaped hoods with symbols denoting what religious group they belong to. In addition to the robed participants, there are also those dressed as charros, and Adelitas (women of the Mexican Revolution) as well as some in indigenous dress. The focal point of the procession is a large figure of the Virgin of Solitude, the Virgin Mary left alone after the death of Jesus. It and its platform weigh more than a ton and are carried on the shoulders of forty men. The procession continues around the town, punctuated by ritual speeches until midnight, when the last of the robed figures returns to the Carmen Church.\n\nIn Tzintzuntzan for most of Holy Week, there are men on horseback, in red hoods and lavender robes that patrol the area to make sure that stores or craftsmen are doing business as usual. A central activity are processions with penitents led by seven large crosses which have been in the care of seven family for generations. These crosses are then at the front of the parish church on Good Friday as a passion play is performed. Local legend says that as recently as the 1970s, in a nearby village, penitents still had themselves nailed to crosses.\n\nA major pilgrimage site for Holy Week is Chalma, the second most visited pilgrimage site in Mexico after the Basilica of Our Lady of Guadalupe. The focus of the pilgrimage is an image of a black crucified Christ and the rites here are a mix of Christian and pre Hispanic influences, such as bathers dipping into a fresh water spring for purification. Dance is a central part of the rites, and an Aztec tradition states that newcomers are obliged to dance for at least one tune.\n\nOther important events for Holy Week include a procession behind a black faced Christ figure in Patzcuaro, the veneration of a purple-robed paper mache image of Christ at the San Francisco Church in the historic center of Mexico City and that of the Tarahumara in Chihuahua, who paint themselves white for ritual.\n\nIn addition to its importance religiously, it has also become a very important vacation period. Many companies shut down in order to provide time off especially between Palm Sunday to Easter Sunday, with some having the following week off as well. Schoolchildren up to high school generally get two weeks off but university students get only one week. The only class of workers working in full that week are those in the tourism industry. While the original reason for the time off was for religious observance, many skip this aspect at least for part of the time to go on vacation.\n\nHotels, restaurants and more are crowded, especially at major resorts and other tourist destinations. Airline and other transport prices tend to be higher with terminals crowded at the very beginning and end of the vacation period. Highways will also be heavily used. In 2010 over nine million Mexicans traveled somewhere for the holiday with an economic impact of over ten billion pesos. In 2011 the Mexico City eastern bus terminal, TAPO, served 180,000 people per day during Holy Week, about double its normal volume. However, major metropolitan areas such as Mexico City, Monterrey and Guadalajara tend to be quieter than normal during this week, as many workers in these cities leave for vacation and/or to visit family in the provinces.\n\nThe most important vacation spots at this time are beach areas such as Acapulco, Cancún, Puerto Vallarta, Veracruz, Mazatlan, Los Cabos and Huatulco. These vacations are generally taken together as families. Beach towns and other resorts fill with vacationers as well as street vendors and wandering musicians taking advantage of the business opportunity. Occupancy rates climb to over 85% and 100% occupancy is not uncommon, leading to rooms rented in private homes. Those who cannot find accommodations often sleep in their vehicles or even on the beach. Other vacation destination include colonial cities in the center such as Morelia, Guanajuato, Querétaro, San Miguel de Allende, Taxco, San Luis Potosí and Zacatecas receive significant numbers of visitors as well.\n\nMany also cross the border into the United States during this week, especially those who live in the north and/or who have family there to visit. It is also popular to go shopping in the country at this time, making it an important time for some US retailers, especially those near the Mexican border.\n"}
{"id": "49960377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49960377", "title": "How to Clone a Mammoth", "text": "How to Clone a Mammoth\n\nHow to Clone a Mammoth: The Science of De-Extinction is a 2015 non-fiction book by biologist Beth Shapiro and published by Princeton University Press. The book describes the current state of de-extinction technology and what the processes involved require in order to accomplish the potential resurrection of extinct species.\n\nThe book is laid out as a step-by-step guide on how to clone an animal, with each chapter detailing a different topic that needs to be explored and answered before de-extinction of a species will be complete. This also involves a particular focus on resurrection of the mammoth.\n\nSeveral chapters deal with the genetic material itself and how to obtain it, along with the difficulties of recovering viable DNA samples from mummified or fossilized remains. Due to the actions of nucleases after cell death, most DNA of extinct species is fragmented into small pieces that have to be reconstructed at least partially if it is to be cloned. This fragmentation means that recovery of a full extinct genome is largely impossible. Thus, only partial genes can be utilized and the most viable method is to use a close evolutionary relative of the extinct species and insert the genes that differ into an embryo of the living species. For mammoth de-extinction, any trait consideration would involve the Asian elephant, the closest still-living relative. Using genes from extrapolated mammoth DNA, the Asian elephant could be made to survive across a wider range, including cold environments, protecting it against possible extinction. This gene transfer to benefit living species is one of the primary sources of research done with de-extinction technology in addition to the desire to revive lost species.\n\nThree following chapters discuss current technology available for moving genes and creating modified elephant genomes, including CRISPR (Clustered Regularly Interspersed Short Palindromic Repeats) and TALENS (Transcription Activator-like Effector Nucleases). The final chapters discuss the environmental benefits and potential drawbacks of mammoths or other extinct species being reintroduced. For mammoths specifically, their heavy weight and specific methods of foraging help grasslands grow in colder climates, potentially turning Siberian permafrost into a tundra-like region with numerous plant species.\n\nShaoni Bhattacharya in \"New Scientist\" noted that while the book \"can be a little academic\", Shapiro manages to explain \"complex molecular biology clearly\" and that it \"really comes alive, though, when she describes her own expeditions\". Writing for \"National Geographic\", Brian Switek describes Shapiro's writing style as \"sharp, witty, and impeccably-argued\" and that she writes \"finely-honed prose\" that \"cuts through the hype that has clouded the debate\" on whether it is possible to clone extinct animals and also whether such efforts should instead be directed toward assisting species that are currently in danger of extinction. Caspar Henderson for \"The Spectator\" called the book's writing \"lively, skeptical and nuanced\" and stated that Shapiro covered topics with \"great clarity\". In an article for \"Science\", A. Rus Hoelzel characterized the writing as \"rich in anecdote and scientifically precise\".\n\nAlec Rodriguez praised the book's writing in a \"Yale Scientific\" article, approving of the conciseness and yet approachable technical detail that is included in the book while still remaining smooth in its flow between subjects. Rodriguez concluded that the book also \"leaves the reader optimistic\" in regards to future scientific advancements and the usage of Pleistocene Park. \"Times Higher Education\"'s Tiffany Taylor considered the work a \"thought-provoking book [that] offers excitement and wonder\" and that, through Shapiro's writing and direct discussion, the book manages to \"paint a scientifically accurate yet magical world where Pleistocene giants might roam the Arctic tundra once again, and where we have the chance to undo some past mistakes\". A review in \"Publishers Weekly\" applauded the book's attempt to state plainly the science involved and determined that readers will \"emerge with the ability to think more deeply about the facts of de-extinction and cloning at a time when hyperbolic and emotionally manipulative claims about such scientific breakthroughs are all too common\". Kent H. Redford in the journal \"Oryx\" recommended that others read the book, adding that it \"will make everyone think, will make some mad, others inspired, and hopefully will educate all conservationists to the extraordinary potential opportunities, good and bad, that de-extinction presents\". In \"The Quarterly Review of Biology\", Derek D. Turner called the writing \"careful, accessible, and thoughtful\", while also pointing out that the book as a whole \"conveys a sense of excitement about the science, but without the uncritical techno-optimism that one sees in many popular articles\". Philip J. Seddon in an article for the journal \"Trends in Ecology and Evolution\" described the book as an \"important contribution to the ongoing debate\" by how it changed the focus on what de-extinction is about to \"ecological resurrection, and not species resurrection\".\n\n"}
{"id": "3333946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3333946", "title": "Hurricane Diana (1984)", "text": "Hurricane Diana (1984)\n\nHurricane Diana was the fourth tropical storm, the first hurricane, the first major hurricane, and the strongest storm of the 1984 Atlantic hurricane season. Diana was the first major hurricane to hit the U.S. East Coast in nearly 20 years. Watches and warnings were issued for the storm along the East coast between eastern Florida and Virginia. It caused moderate damage in North Carolina while it looped offshore and after it made landfall as a Category 2 hurricane. Forming on September 8, Diana moved northward and wandered across North Carolina for a couple of days during mid-September, dropping heavy rainfall. Once it left the state and accelerated east-northeast, Diana quickly evolved into an extratropical cyclone. Damages to the United States totaled $65.5 million (1984 USD). Three indirect fatalities were caused by the cyclone.\n\nThe origins of Hurricane Diana can be traced back to a stalled out area of low pressure just north of the Bahamas along the tail end of a cold front on September 6. Shower and thunderstorm activity began to increase the next day but was generally disorganized. Around 1200 UTC on September 8, a ship in the vicinity of the low reported a sustained wind speed of 40 mph (65 km/h). A few hours later, based on satellite observations, the low was designated Tropical Storm Diana. With weak steering currents, Diana gradually intensified as it slowly moved towards the west over the next day, coming within 50 miles (85 km) of Cape Canaveral, Florida, before taking a sharp turn towards the north-northwest. As Diana neared Saint Augustine, Florida, it turned towards the northeast and intensified into a hurricane.\n\nUnder weak steering currents while detached to the front, Diana drifted westward, and came within 50 miles (85 km) of the Florida coast. Rather than continuing westward, where it would have hit near Cape Canaveral, Diana turned to the northwest where it paralleled the coastline. The storm, continually strengthening over the Gulf Stream, turned to the northeast and became a hurricane on September 10. On September 11 and September 12, Diana rapidly intensified to a peak of 130 mph (215 km/h) winds while remaining offshore.\n\nAn approaching frontal system caused Diana to execute a cyclonic loop, where cool, dry air caused it to weaken. The hurricane hit Wilmington, North Carolina as a weakening hurricane with maximum sustained winds of 100 mph (150 km/h) on September 13, and quickly weakened to a tropical storm over land. The high pressure system that built in after Diana looped weakened, allowing the storm to move to the north and east. After crossing the Outer Banks, Diana accelerated to the northeast, and after restrengthening to a storm, became extratropical near Nova Scotia on September 16.\n\nSoon after advisories were initiated, gale warnings were issued between Cape Canaveral, Florida and Virginia Beach, Virginia during the afternoon of September 8. During the morning of September 9, gale warnings were lowered south of St. Augustine, Florida. As Diana strengthened into a hurricane, hurricane watches and gale warnings were raised between St. Augustine and Oregon Inlet, North Carolina. By the morning of September 10, gale warnings were upgraded to hurricane warnings between Brunswick, Georgia and Oregon Inlet. All warnings and watches south of Brunswick were dropped at that time. By the morning of September 11, hurricane warnings were lowered south of Savannah, Georgia. That afternoon, all warnings were lowered south of Cape Romain, South Carolina.\n\nOn the morning of September 12, all warnings were lowered south of Myrtle Beach, South Carolina. Early in the morning of September 13, gale warnings were raised between Cape Romain and Myrtle Beach. Later that morning, hurricane warnings were lowered between Wilmington, North Carolina and Oregon Inlet, and all warnings were dropped between Cape Lookout and Virginia Beach. Gale warnings were then in effect between Wilmington and Cape Lookout. Once inland, all warnings were lowered on the afternoon of September 13. As the tropical storm moved offshore, gale warnings went into effect between the mornings of September 14 and September 15 between Cape Lookout and Chincoteague, Virginia.\n\nAlong the North Carolina coastline, state troopers were deployed to assist residents in evacuating and preparing for the hurricane. South Carolina governor Mike Daniel declared a state of emergency and placed the national guard on standby. Schools throughout the Carolinas and Georgia were closed. Most beaches were closed due to strong rip currents and beach erosion. Residents on barrier islands were urged to evacuate as waves in excess of were expected to inundate them. Approximately 94 families were relocated from their mobile homes near Beaufort, North Carolina by state officials. A 24-hour emergency operations center was also established. The Coast Guard moved all available boats in the area to a position where they could be deployed immediately if needed.\n\nAlong the Georgia coastline, The Golden Isles of Georgia were evacuated due to large swells produced by Diana. Two nursing homes in Tybee Island were evacuated and a voluntary evacuation was issued for all residents in the town. Several shelters were also opened at schools in a few counties; however, relatively few families sought refuge in them. Local schools and beaches were also closed for the duration of the storm's passage.\n\nWith Category 4 winds of , Diana threatened to become the most intense hurricane to strike North Carolina since Hurricane Hazel in 1954. However, it looped and weakened just offshore and made landfall as a Category 2 hurricane. Because of this, Diana only caused $65.5 million in damage (1984 USD) due to heavy flooding from up to of rain, tree damage, and downed power lines. Most of the damage was experienced between Wilmington, North Carolina and Myrtle Beach, South Carolina. The Carolina Power and Light Brunswick Nuclear Power Plant recorded winds of over 75 mph, making Hurricane Diana the first hurricane to bring hurricane force winds to a nuclear power plant. Some yard damage was seen, but the plant was mostly unaffected.\n\nThree indirect deaths were reported from Diana. One person died from a heart attack while making hurricane preparations, and the other two were from automobile accidents. Following the storm, President Ronald Reagan declared five North Carolina counties as a federal disaster area, allowing the affected regions to receive government funds and assistance. Funds were also allocated for the repairing of roads and sewers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48260114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48260114", "title": "Ilumina Festival", "text": "Ilumina Festival\n\nThe Ilumina Festival is an annual chamber music festival held in Brazil.\n\nThe festival combines the objective of producing high-end classical music with a deep-rooted social mission. Professional soloists from multiple nationalities converge in a secluded venue in rural Brazil, where they commune and collaborate with a selected group of outstanding young local talents at the start of their professional careers.\n\nThrough a series of rehearsals, workshops, and masterclasses, all musicians prepare, together, for a set of concerts, open to the public and free of charge, aimed at bringing chamber music to audiences that would have otherwise limited access to it. Both soloists and fellows feed off each other’s input, and the experience provides a sizeable professional boost for alumni’s careers.\n\nThe festival operates on a non-profit basis and relies on donors, sponsors and supporters for financial viability.\n\nFounded by American violist and artistic director Jennifer Stumm, the festival held its first edition in the city of São Bento do Sapucaí, in January 2015.\n\nInvited soloists for the first edition included Cristian\nBudu, Joseph Conyers, Giovanni Gnocchi, Esther Hoppe and Alexandra Soumm.\n\nConcerts were held in São Bento do Sapucaí and Campos do Jordão and\nincluded works by Thomas Adès, Anton Arensky, Marcos Balter, Heinrich Ignaz Franz Biber, Johannes Brahms, Osvaldo Golijov, Gioachino Rossini, Franz Schubert, Bright Sheng, Dmitri Shostakovich, Ralph Vaughan Williams and Heitor Villa-Lobos.\n\nAlumni from the first edition went on to new professional\njobs in classical music, and to be accepted into some of the world’s leading\nconservatories and music programs.\n\nThe second edition of the festival was held in the State of São Paulo from January 02 to 10, 2016.\n\nAll told, 7 international soloists and 20 fellows attended.\n\n3 concerts were held: The first at the Serrinha farm, home of the festival in 2016, to an audience consisting of local community members and farm workers. The next one at the central church of Piracaia, the farm's neighboring town, again to a local audience lacking any regular classical music opportunities. \n\nThe final performance was an all-day chamber music residency at MASP, consisting of the festival’s closing concert as well as pop-up concerts throughout the museum and public areas, including the Avenida Paulista, São Paulo’s main thoroughfare.\n\nAll concerts were free of charge and fully attended, with tickets for the final concert being claimed within an hour of being made available. The festival received ample coverage through broadcast and printed media, as well as online, including by Cultura, São Paulo's Public Broadcasting Service, Rede Globo and Estado de S. Paulo.\n\nPartnerships were formed with Cultura Artistica and the Minerva Kunststiftung, and fundraisers were held in São Paulo and London to keep operations financially viable. The festival was delivered within budget.\n\nAlumni from the second edition were also subsequently admitted into some of the world's leading conservatories, including the Mozarteum Salzburg.\n\nThe third edition of the festival is scheduled to be held in from January 02 to 15, 2017, in the state of São Paulo.\n\nThe recruitment process for local young musicians is underway, and applications are being received online.\n\nMusicians who have partaken in and been involved in the festival include:\n\nJennifer Stumm (USA) – Viola and Artistic Director\n\nCristian Budu (Brazil) – Piano\n\nJoseph Conyers (USA) – Double Bass\n\nGiovanni Gnocchi (Italy) – Cello\n\nJulia Gartemann (Germany) – Viola\n\nEsther Hoppe (Switzerland) – Violin\n\nTai Murray (USA) – Violin\n\n"}
{"id": "424150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=424150", "title": "Iranian Embassy siege", "text": "Iranian Embassy siege\n\nThe Iranian Embassy siege took place from 30 April to 5 May 1980, after a group of six armed men stormed the Iranian embassy in South Kensington, London. The gunmen, members of Arabs of KSA group campaigning for Arab national sovereignty in the southern Iranian region of Khuzestan Province, took 26 people hostage, mostly embassy staff, but also several visitors, as well as a police officer who had been guarding the embassy. They demanded the release of Arab prisoners from prisons in Khuzestan and their own safe passage out of the United Kingdom.\n\nMargaret Thatcher's government quickly resolved that safe passage would not be granted, and a siege ensued. Over the following days, police negotiators secured the release of five hostages in exchange for minor concessions, such as the broadcasting of the hostage-takers' demands on British television.\n\nBy the sixth day of the siege the gunmen had become increasingly frustrated at the lack of progress in meeting their demands. That evening, they killed one of the hostages and threw his body out of the embassy. As a result, the government ordered the Special Air Service (SAS), a special forces regiment of the British Army, to conduct an assault, known as Operation Nimrod, to rescue the remaining hostages. Shortly afterwards, SAS soldiers abseiled from the roof of the building and forced entry through the windows. During the 17-minute raid, they rescued all but one of the remaining hostages, and killed five of the six hostage-takers. The soldiers later faced accusations of unnecessarily killing two of the five, but an inquest into the deaths eventually cleared the SAS of any wrongdoing. The sole remaining gunman was prosecuted and served 27 years in British prisons.\n\nThe hostage-takers and their cause were largely forgotten after the Iran–Iraq War broke out later that year and the hostage crisis in Tehran continued until January 1981. Nonetheless, the operation brought the SAS to the public eye for the first time and bolstered the reputation of Thatcher. The SAS was quickly overwhelmed by the number of applications it received from people inspired by the operation and experienced greater demand for its expertise from foreign governments. The building, having suffered major damage from a fire that broke out during the assault, was not reopened as the Iranian embassy until 1993.\n\nThe hostage-takers were members of the Democratic Revolutionary Front for the Liberation of Arabistan (DRFLA), Iranian Arabs protesting for the establishment of an autonomous Arab state in the southern region of the Iranian province of Khūzestān which is home to an Arabic-speaking minority. The oil-rich area had become the source of much of Iran's wealth, having been developed by multi-national companies during the reign of the Shah.\n\nAccording to Oan Ali Mohammed, suppression of the Arab sovereignty movement was the spark that led to his desire to attack the Iranian Embassy in London. The plan was inspired by the Iran hostage crisis in which supporters of the revolution held the staff of the American embassy in Tehran hostage.\n\nUsing Iraqi passports, Oan and three other members of the DRFLA arrived in London on 31 March 1980 and rented a flat in Earls Court. They claimed they had met by chance on the flight. The men typically returned to the flat drunk, late at night, and sometimes accompanied by prostitutes. Within a week, the housekeeper asked them to leave. They soon found another flat, where they told their new landlord they were moving because they had been joined by other men and required larger accommodation. Over the following days, the group swelled, with up to a dozen men in the flat on one occasion.\n\nOan was 27 and from Khūzestān; he had studied at the University of Tehran, where he became politically active. He had been imprisoned by SAVAK, the Shah's secret police, and bore scars which he said were from torture in SAVAK custody. The other members of his group were Shakir Abdullah Radhil, known as \"Faisal\", Oan's second-in-command who also claimed to have been tortured by SAVAK; Shakir Sultan Said, or \"Hassan\"; Themir Moammed Hussein, or Abbas; Fowzi Badavi Nejad, or \"Ali\"; and Makki Hanoun Ali, the youngest of the group, who went by the name of \"Makki\".\n\nOn 30 April the men informed their landlord that they were going to Bristol for a week and then returning to Iraq, stated that they would no longer require the flat, and arranged for their belongings to be sent to Iraq. They left the building at 09:30 (BST) on 30 April. Their initial destination is unknown, but en route to the Iranian Embassy they collected firearms (including pistols and submachine guns), ammunition and hand grenades. The weapons, predominantly Soviet-made, are believed to have been smuggled into the United Kingdom in a diplomatic bag belonging to Iraq. Shortly before 11:30, and almost two hours after vacating the nearby flat in Lexham Gardens in South Kensington, the six men arrived outside the embassy.\n\nThe Special Air Service (SAS) is a regiment of the British Army and part of the United Kingdom's special forces. The regiment was formed by Colonel David Stirling in Africa in 1941, at the height of the Second World War. Its original role was to penetrate enemy lines and strike at airfields and supply lines deep in enemy territory, first in North Africa and later around the Mediterranean and in occupied Europe. Stirling established the principle of using small teams, usually of just four men, to carry out raids, having realised that a four-man team could sometimes prove much more effective than a unit of hundreds of soldiers.\n\nWestern governments were prompted to form specialist anti-terrorist units following the \"Munich massacre\". During the 1972 Olympic Games, a firefight between a group of hostage-takers and West German police left a police officer and all the hostages dead. The British government, worried that the country was unprepared for a similar crisis in the United Kingdom, ordered the formation of the Counter Revolutionary Warfare (CRW) Wing of the SAS, which became the UK's primary anti-terrorist and anti-hijacking unit.\n\nThe SAS had taken part in counter-insurgency operations abroad since 1945, and had trained the bodyguards of influential people whose deaths would be contrary to British interests. Thus, it was believed to be better prepared for the role than any unit in the police or elsewhere in the armed forces. The CRW Wing's first operational experience was the storming of Lufthansa Flight 181 in 1977, when a small detachment of soldiers were sent to assist GSG 9, the elite West German police unit set up after the events of 1972.\n\nAt approximately 11:30 on Wednesday 30 April the six heavily armed members of DRFLA stormed the Iranian Embassy building on Princes Gate, South Kensington. The gunmen quickly overpowered Police Constable Trevor Lock of the Metropolitan Police's Diplomatic Protection Group (DPG). Lock was carrying a concealed Smith & Wesson .38-calibre revolver, but was unable to draw it before he was overpowered, although he did manage to press the \"panic button\" on his radio. Lock was later frisked, but the gunman conducting the search did not find the constable's weapon. He remained in possession of the revolver, and to keep it concealed refused to remove his coat, which he told the gunmen was to \"preserve his image\" as a police officer. The officer also refused offers of food throughout the siege for fear that the weapon would be seen if he had to use the toilet and a gunman decided to escort him.\n\nAlthough the majority of the people in the embassy were captured, three managed to escape; two by climbing out of a ground-floor window and the third by climbing across a first-floor (second-floor in American dialect) parapet to the Ethiopian Embassy next door. A fourth person, Gholam-Ali Afrouz, the chargé d'affaires and thus most senior Iranian official present, briefly escaped by jumping out of a first-floor window, but was injured in the process and quickly captured. Afrouz and the 25 other hostages were all taken to a room on the second floor. The majority of the hostages were embassy staff, predominantly Iranian nationals, but several British employees were also captured. The other hostages were all visitors, with the exception of Lock, the British police officer guarding the embassy. Afrouz had been appointed to the position less than a year before, his predecessor having been dismissed after the revolution. Abbas Fallahi, who had been a butler before the revolution, was appointed the doorman by Afrouz. One of the British members of staff was Ron Morris, from Battersea, who had worked for the embassy in various positions since 1947.\n\nDuring the course of the siege, police and journalists established the identities of several other hostages. Mustapha Karkouti was a journalist covering the crisis at the US Embassy in Tehran and was at the embassy for an interview with Abdul Fazi Ezzati, the cultural attaché. Muhammad Hashir Faruqi was another journalist, at the embassy to interview Afrouz for an article on the Iranian Revolution. Simeon \"Sim\" Harris and Chris Cramer, both employees of the BBC, were at the embassy attempting to obtain visas to visit Iran, hoping to cover the aftermath of the 1979 revolution, after several unsuccessful attempts. They found themselves sitting next to Moutaba Mehrnavard, who was there to consult Ahmad Dadgar, the embassy's medical adviser, and Ali Asghar Tabatabai, who was collecting a map for use in a presentation he had been asked to give at the end of a course he had been attending.\n\nPolice arrived at the embassy almost immediately after the first reports of gunfire, and, within ten minutes, seven DPG officers were on the scene. The officers moved to surround the embassy, but retreated when a gunman appeared at a window and threatened to open fire. Deputy Assistant Commissioner John Dellow arrived nearly 30 minutes later and took command of the operation. Dellow established a temporary headquarters in his car before moving it to the Royal School of Needlework further down Princes Gate and then to 24 Princes Gate, a nursery school. From his various command posts, Dellow coordinated the police response, including the deployment of D11, the Metropolitan Police's marksmen, and officers with specialist surveillance equipment. Police negotiators made contact with Oan via a field telephone passed through one of the embassy windows, and were assisted by a negotiator and a psychiatrist. At 15:15 Oan issued the DRFLA's first demand, the release of 91 Arabs held in prisons in Khūzestān, and threatened to blow up the embassy and the hostages if this were not done by noon on 1 May.\n\nLarge numbers of journalists were on the scene quickly and were moved into a holding area to the west of the front of the embassy, while dozens of Iranian protesters also arrived near the embassy and remained there throughout the siege. Shortly after the beginning of the crisis, the British government's emergency committee COBRA, was assembled. COBRA is made up of ministers, civil servants and expert advisers, including representatives from the police and the armed forces. The meeting was chaired by William Whitelaw, the Home Secretary, as Margaret Thatcher, the Prime Minister, was unavailable. The Iranian government accused the British and American governments of sponsoring the attack as revenge for the ongoing siege of the US Embassy in Tehran. Given the lack of co-operation from Iran, Thatcher, kept apprised of the situation by Whitelaw, determined that British law would be applied to the embassy, despite the Vienna Convention, under which the embassy is considered Iranian soil.\n\nAt 16:30, the gunmen released their first hostage, Frieda Mozaffarian. She had been unwell since the siege began, and Oan had asked for a doctor to be sent into the embassy to treat her, but the police refused. The other hostages deceived Oan into believing that Mozaffarian was pregnant, and Oan eventually released Mozaffarian after her condition deteriorated.\n\nThe COBRA meetings continued through the night and into Thursday. Meanwhile, two teams were dispatched from the headquarters of the Special Air Service (SAS) near Hereford, and arrived at a holding area in Regent's Park Barracks. The teams, from B Squadron, complemented by specialists from other squadrons, were equipped with CS gas, stun grenades, and explosives and armed with Browning Hi-Power pistols and Heckler & Koch MP5 submachine guns. Lieutenant Colonel Michael Rose, commander of 22 SAS had travelled ahead of the detachment and introduced himself to Dellow, the commander of the police operation. At approximately 03:30 on 1 May, one of the SAS teams moved into the building next door to the embassy, normally occupied by the Royal College of General Practitioners, where they were briefed on Rose's \"immediate action\" plan, to be implemented should the SAS be required to storm the building before a more sophisticated plan could be formed.\n\nEarly in the morning of 1 May, the gunmen ordered one of the hostages to telephone the BBC's news desk. During the call, Oan took the receiver and spoke directly to the BBC journalist. He identified the group to which the gunmen belonged and stated that the non-Iranian hostages would not be harmed, but refused to allow the journalist to speak to any other hostages. At some point during the day, the police disabled the embassy's telephone lines, leaving the hostage-takers just the field telephone for outside communication. As the hostages woke up, Chris Cramer, a sound organiser for the BBC, appeared to become seriously ill. He and three other non-Arab hostages had decided one of them must get out, and to do this, he had convincingly exaggerated the symptoms of an existing illness. His colleague, Sim Harris, was taken to the field telephone to negotiate for a doctor. The police negotiator refused the request, instead telling Harris to persuade Oan to release Cramer. The ensuing negotiations between Harris, Oan, and the police took up most of the morning, and Cramer was eventually released at 11:15. He was rushed to hospital in an ambulance, accompanied by police officers sent to gather information from him.\n\nAs the deadline of noon approached, set the previous day for the release of the Arab prisoners, the police became convinced that the gunmen did not have the capability to carry out their threat of blowing up the embassy, and persuaded Oan to agree to a new deadline of 14:00. The police allowed the deadline to pass, to no immediate response from the gunmen. During the afternoon, Oan altered his demands, requesting that the British media broadcast a statement of the group's grievances and for ambassadors of three Arab countries to negotiate the group's safe passage out of the UK once the statement had been broadcast.\n\nAt approximately 20:00, Oan became agitated by noises coming from the Ethiopian Embassy next door. The noise came from technicians who were drilling holes in the wall to implant listening devices, but PC Trevor Lock, when asked to identify the sound, attributed it to mice. COBRA decided to create ambient noise to cover the sound created by the technicians and instructed British Gas to commence drilling in an adjacent road, supposedly to repair a gas main. The drilling was aborted after it agitated the gunmen, and instead British Airports Authority, owner of London Heathrow Airport, was told to instruct approaching aircraft to fly over the embassy at low altitude.\n\nAt 09:30 on 2 May, Oan appeared at the first-floor window of the embassy to demand access to the telex system, which the police had disabled along with the telephone lines, and threatened to kill Abdul Fazi Ezzati, the cultural attaché. The police refused and Oan pushed Ezzati, who he had been holding at gunpoint at the window, across the room, before demanding to speak to somebody from the BBC who knew Sim Harris. The police, relieved to have a demand to which they could easily agree, produced Tony Crabb, managing director of BBC Television News and Harris's boss. Oan shouted his demands; for safe passage out of the UK, to be negotiated by three ambassadors from Arab countries, to Crabb from the first-floor window, and instructed that they should be broadcast along with a statement of the hostage-takers' aims by the BBC. The Foreign and Commonwealth Office informally approached the embassies of Algeria, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Syria and Qatar to ask if their ambassadors would be willing to talk to the hostage-takers. The Jordanian ambassador immediately refused and the other five said they would consult their governments. The BBC broadcast the statement that evening, but in a form unsatisfactory to Oan, who considered it to be truncated and incorrect.\n\nMeanwhile, the police located the embassy caretaker and took him to their forward headquarters to brief the SAS and senior police officers. He informed them that the embassy's front door was reinforced by a steel security door, and that the windows on the ground floor and first floor were fitted with armoured glass, the result of recommendations made after the SAS had been asked to review security arrangements for the embassy several years earlier. Plans for entering the embassy by battering the front door and ground-floor windows were quickly scrapped and work began on other ideas.\n\nOan, angered by the BBC's incorrect reporting of his demands the previous evening, contacted the police negotiators shortly after 06:00 and accused the authorities of deceiving him. He demanded to speak with an Arab ambassador, but the negotiator on duty claimed that talks were still being arranged by the Foreign Office. Recognising the delaying tactic, Oan told the negotiator that the British hostages would be the last to be released because of the British authorities' deceit. He added that a hostage would be killed unless Tony Crabb was brought back to the embassy. Crabb did not arrive at the embassy until 15:30, nearly ten hours after Oan demanded his presence, to the frustration of both Oan and Sim Harris. Oan then relayed another statement to Crabb via Mustapha Karkouti, a journalist also being held hostage in the embassy. The police guaranteed that the statement would be broadcast on the BBC's next news bulletin, in exchange for the release of two hostages. The hostages decided amongst themselves that the two to be released would be Hiyech Kanji and Ali-Guil Ghanzafar; the former as she was pregnant and the latter for no other reason than his loud snoring, which kept the other hostages awake at night and irritated the terrorists.\n\nLater in the evening, at approximately 23:00, an SAS team reconnoitred the roof of the embassy. They discovered a skylight, and succeeded in unlocking it for potential use as an access point, should they later be required to storm the building. They also attached ropes to the chimneys to allow soldiers to abseil down the building and gain access through the windows if necessary.\n\nDuring the day, the Foreign Office held further talks with diplomats from Arabian countries in the hope of persuading them to go to the embassy and talk to the hostage-takers. The talks, hosted by Douglas Hurd, ended in stalemate. The diplomats insisted they must be able to offer safe passage out of the UK for the gunmen, believing this to be the only way to guarantee a peaceful outcome, but the British government was adamant that safe passage would not be considered under any circumstances. Karkhouti, through whom Oan had issued his revised demands the previous day, became increasingly ill throughout the day and by the evening was feverish, which led to suggestions that the police had spiked the food that had been sent into the embassy. John Dellow, the commander of the police operation, had apparently considered the idea and even consulted a doctor about its viability, but eventually dismissed it as \"impracticable\".\n\nThe SAS officers involved in the operation, including Brigadier Peter de la Billière, Director Special Forces, Lieutenant Colonel Mike Rose, Commander of 22 SAS, and Major Hector Gullan, commander of the team that would undertake any raid, spent the day refining their plans for an assault.\n\nOan woke Lock at dawn, convinced that an intruder was in the embassy. Lock was sent to investigate, but no intruder was found. Later in the morning, Oan called Lock to examine a bulge in the wall separating the Iranian embassy from the Ethiopian embassy next door. The bulge had, in fact, been caused by the removal of bricks to allow an assault team to break through the wall and to implant listening devices, resulting in a weakening of the wall. Although Lock assured him that he did not believe the police were about to storm the building, Oan remained convinced that they were \"up to something\" and moved the male hostages from the room in which they had spent the last four days to another down the hall. Tensions rose throughout the morning and, at 13:00, Oan told the police that he would kill a hostage unless he was able to speak to an Arab ambassador within 45 minutes. At 13:40, Lock informed the negotiator that the gunmen had taken Abbas Lavasani, the embassy's chief press officer, downstairs and were preparing to execute him. Lavasani, a devout believer in the Iranian Revolution, had repeatedly provoked his captors during the siege. According to Lock, Lavasani stated that \"if they were going to kill a hostage, [Lavasani] wanted it to be him.\" At exactly 13:45, 45 minutes after Oan's demand to speak to an ambassador, three shots were heard from inside the embassy.\n\nHome Secretary Willie Whitelaw, who had been chairing COBRA during the siege, was rushed back to Whitehall from a function he had been attending in Slough, roughly away, arriving 19 minutes after the shots had been reported. He was briefed on the SAS plan by de la Billière, who told him to expect that up to 40 percent of the hostages would be killed in an assault. After deliberations, Whitelaw instructed the SAS to prepare to assault the building at short notice, an order that was received by Mike Rose at 15:50. By 17:00, the SAS were in a position to assault the embassy at ten minutes' notice. The police negotiators recruited the imam from a local mosque at 18:20, fearing that a \"crisis point\" had been reached, and asked him to talk to the gunmen. Three further shots were fired during the course of the imam's conversation with Oan. Oan announced that a hostage had been killed, and the rest would die in 30 minutes unless his demands were met. A few minutes later, Lavasani's body was dumped out of the front door. Upon a preliminary examination, conducted at the scene, a forensic pathologist estimated that Lavasani had been dead for at least an hour, meaning he could not have been killed by the three most recent shots, and leading the police to believe that two hostages had been killed. In fact, only Lavasani had been shot.\n\nAfter Lavasani's body had been recovered, Sir David McNee, Commissioner of the Metropolitan Police, contacted the Home Secretary to request approval to hand control of the operation over to the British Army, under the provisions of Military Aid to the Civil Power. Whitelaw relayed the request to Thatcher, and the prime minister agreed immediately. Thus John Dellow, the ranking police officer at the embassy, signed over control of the operation to Lieutenant Colonel Mike Rose at 19:07, authorising Rose to order an assault at his discretion. Meanwhile, the police negotiators began stalling Oan. They offered concessions in order to distract him and prevent him killing further hostages, buying time for the SAS to make its final preparations for the now-inevitable assault.\n\nThe two SAS teams on-scene, Red Team and Blue Team, were ordered to begin their simultaneous assaults, under the codename Operation Nimrod, at 19:23. One group of four men from Red Team abseiled from the roof down the rear of the building, while another four-man team lowered a stun grenade through the skylight. The detonation of the stun grenade was supposed to coincide with the abseiling teams detonating explosives to gain entry to the building through the second-floor windows. Their descent had not gone according to plan and the staff sergeant leading the abseilers became entangled in his rope. While trying to assist him, one of the other soldiers had accidentally smashed a window with his foot. The noise of the breaking window alerted Oan, who was on the first floor communicating with the police negotiators, and he went to investigate. The soldiers were unable to use explosives for fear of injuring their stranded staff sergeant, but managed to smash their way into the embassy.\n\nAfter the first three soldiers entered, a fire started and travelled up the curtains and out of the second-floor window, severely burning the staff sergeant. A second wave of abseilers cut him free, and he fell to the balcony below before entering the embassy behind the rest of his team. Slightly behind Red Team, Blue Team detonated explosives on a first-floor window, forcing Sim Harris, who had just run into the room, to take cover. Much of the operation at the front of the embassy took place in full view of the assembled journalists and was broadcast on live television, thus Harris's escape across the parapet of a first-floor balcony was famously captured on video.\n\nAs the soldiers emerged onto the first-floor landing, Lock tackled Oan to prevent him attacking the SAS men. Oan, still armed, was subsequently shot dead by one of the soldiers. Meanwhile, further teams entered the embassy through the back door and cleared the ground floor and cellar. The SAS then began evacuating hostages, manhandling them down the stairs towards the back door of the embassy. Two of the terrorists were hiding amongst the hostages; one of them produced a hand grenade when he was identified. An SAS soldier, who was unable to shoot for fear of hitting a hostage or another soldier, pushed the grenade-wielding terrorist to the bottom of the stairs, where two other soldiers shot him dead.\n\nThe raid lasted seventeen minutes and involved 30–35 soldiers. The terrorists killed one hostage and seriously wounded two others during the raid while the SAS killed all but one of the terrorists. The rescued hostages and the remaining terrorist, who was still concealed amongst them, were taken into the embassy's back garden and restrained on the ground while they were identified. The last terrorist was identified by Sim Harris and led away by the SAS.\n\nAfter the end of the siege, PC Trevor Lock was widely considered a hero. He was awarded the George Medal, the United Kingdom's second-highest civil honour, for his conduct during the siege and for tackling Oan during the SAS raid, the only time during the siege that he drew his concealed side arm. In addition, he was honoured with the Freedom of the City of London and in a motion in the House of Commons. Police historian Michael J. Waldren, referring to the television series \"Dixon of Dock Green\", suggested that Lock's restraint in the use of his revolver was \"a defining example of the power of the Dixon image\", and Maurice Punch noted the contrast between Lock's actions and the highly aggressive tactics of the SAS.\n\nSergeant Tommy Palmer was awarded the Queen's Gallantry Medal for his part in the assault, in which he shot dead a terrorist who was apparently about to throw a grenade amongst the hostages. After the operation concluded, the staff sergeant who was caught in his abseil rope was treated at St Stephen's Hospital in Fulham. He suffered serious burns to his legs, but went on to make a full recovery.\n\nThe Iranian government welcomed the end of the siege, and declared that the two hostages killed were martyrs for the Iranian Revolution. They also thanked the British government for \"the persevering action of your police force during the unjust hostage-taking event at the Embassy\".\n\nAfter the assault concluded, the police conducted an investigation into the siege and the deaths of the two hostages and five terrorists, including the actions of the SAS. The soldiers' weapons were taken away for examination and, the following day, the soldiers themselves were interviewed at length by the police at the regiment's base in Hereford. There was controversy over the deaths of two terrorists in the telex room, where the male hostages were held. Hostages later said in interviews that they had persuaded their captors to surrender and television footage appeared to show them throwing weapons out of the window and holding a white flag. The two SAS soldiers who killed the men both stated at the inquest into the terrorists' deaths that they believed the men had been reaching for weapons before they were shot. The inquest jury reached the verdict that the soldiers' actions were justifiable homicide (later known as \"lawful killing\").\n\nFowzi Nejad was the only gunman to survive the SAS assault. After being identified, he was dragged away by an SAS trooper, who allegedly intended to take him back into the building and shoot him. The soldier reportedly changed his mind when it was pointed out to him that the raid was being broadcast on live television. It later emerged that the footage from the back of the embassy was coming from a wireless camera placed in the window of a flat overlooking the embassy. The camera had been installed by ITN technicians, who had posed as guests of a local resident in order to get past the police cordon, which had been in place since the beginning of the siege. Nejad was arrested, and was eventually tried, convicted, and sentenced to life imprisonment for his role in the siege. He became eligible for parole in 2005.\n\nAs a foreign national, he would normally have been immediately deported to his home country but Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights, incorporated into British law by the Human Rights Act 1998, has been held by the European Court of Human Rights to prohibit deportation in cases where the person concerned would be likely to be tortured or executed in his home country. Nejad was eventually paroled in 2008 and granted leave to remain in the UK, but was not given political asylum. The Home Office released a statement, saying \"We do not give refugee status to convicted terrorists. Our aim is to deport people as quickly as possible but the law requires us to first obtain assurances that the person being returned will not face certain death\". After 27 years in prison, Nejad was deemed no longer to be a threat to society, but Trevor Lock wrote to the Home Office to oppose his release. Because it is accepted by the British government that he would be executed or tortured, he cannot be deported to Iran under the Human Rights Act 1998. He now lives in Peckham, south London, having assumed another identity.\n\nThe SAS raid, codenamed \"Operation Nimrod\", was broadcast live at peak time on a bank holiday Monday evening and was viewed by millions of people, mostly in the UK, making it a defining moment in British history. Both the BBC and ITV interrupted their scheduled programming to show the end of the siege, which proved to be a major career break for several journalists. Kate Adie, the BBC's duty reporter at the embassy when the SAS assault began, went on to report from war zones across the world and eventually to become chief news correspondent for BBC News, while David Goldsmith and his team, responsible for the hidden camera at the back of the embassy, were awarded a BAFTA for their coverage. The success of the operation, combined with the high-profile it was given by the media, invoked a sense of national pride compared to Victory in Europe Day, the end of the Second World War in Europe. The operation was declared \"an almost unqualified success\". Margaret Thatcher recalled that she was congratulated wherever she went over the following days, and received messages of support and congratulation from other world leaders. However, the incident strained already-tense relations between the UK and Iran following the Iranian Revolution. The Iranian government declared that the siege of the embassy was planned by the British and American governments, and that the hostages who had been killed were martyrs for the Revolution.\n\nOperation Nimrod brought the SAS, a regiment that was largely unknown at the time owing to the covert nature of its operations, into the public eye. The regiment was not pleased with its new high profile, having enjoyed its previous obscurity. Nonetheless, the operation vindicated the SAS, which had been threatened with disbandment and whose use of resources had previously been considered a waste. The regiment was quickly overwhelmed by new applicants. Membership of 22 SAS is open only to individuals currently serving in the Armed Forces (allowing applications from any individual in any service), but the unit also has two regiments from the volunteer Territorial Army (TA): 21 SAS and 23 SAS. Both the TA regiments received hundreds more applications than in previous years, prompting de la Billière to remark that the applicants seemed \"convinced that a balaclava helmet and a Heckler & Koch sub-machine gun would be handed to them over the counter, so that they could go off and conduct embassy-style sieges of their own\". All three units were forced to introduce additional fitness tests at the start of the application process. The SAS also experienced an increased demand for their expertise in training the forces of friendly countries and those whose collapse was considered not to be in Britain's interest.\n\nThe British government's response to the crisis, and the successful use of force to end it, strengthened the Conservative government of the day and boosted Thatcher's personal credibility. McNee believed that the conclusion of the siege exemplified the British government's policy of refusing to give in to terrorist demands, \"nowhere was the effectiveness of this response to terrorism more effectively demonstrated\".\n\nThe embassy building was severely damaged by fire. It was more than a decade before the British and Iranian governments came to an agreement whereby the United Kingdom would repair the damage to the embassy in London and Iran would pay for repairs to the British embassy in Tehran, which had been damaged during the 1979 Iranian Revolution. Iranian diplomats began working from 16 Princes Gate again in December 1993.\n\nThe DRFLA was undermined by its links with the Iraqi government after it emerged that Iraq had sponsored the training and equipping of the hostage-takers. The Iran–Iraq War started five months after the end of the siege and continued for eight years. The campaign for autonomy of Khūzestān was largely forgotten in the wake of the hostilities, as was the DRFLA.\n\n\n\nBibliography\nCitations\n"}
{"id": "24650438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24650438", "title": "Italian economic miracle", "text": "Italian economic miracle\n\nThe Italian economic miracle or the Italian economic boom (, or \"boom economico\") is the term used by historians, economists and the mass media to designate the prolonged period of strong economic growth in Italy after the Second World War from the 1950s to the late 1960s, and in particular the years from 1950 to 1963. This phase of Italian history represented not only a cornerstone in the economic and social development of the country—which was transformed from a poor, mainly rural, nation into a global industrial power—but also a period of momentous change in Italian society and culture. As summed up by one historian, by the end of the 1970s, \"social security coverage had been made comprehensive and relatively generous. The material standard of living had vastly improved for the great majority of the population.\"\n\nAfter the end of World War II, Italy was in ruins and occupied by foreign armies, a condition that worsened the chronic development gap towards the more advanced European economies. However, the new geopolitical logic of the Cold War made possible that the former enemy Italy, a hinge-country between Western Europe and the Mediterranean, and now a new, fragile democracy threatened by the proximity of the Iron Curtain and the presence of a strong Communist party, was considered by the USA as an important ally for the Free World, and therefore a recipient of the generous aid provided by the Marshall Plan, receiving $1.5 billion from 1948 to 1952. The end of the Plan, that could have stopped the recovery, coincided with the crucial point of the Korea War (1950–1953), whose demand for metal and other manufactured products was a further stimulus to the growth of every kind of industry in Italy. In addition, the creation in 1957 of the European Common Market, of which Italy was among the founder members, provided more investments and eased exports.\n\nThe above-mentioned highly favorable historical backgrounds, combined with the presence of a large and cheap stock of labour force, laid the foundations of a spectacular economic growth. The boom lasted almost uninterrupted until the \"Hot Autumn's\" massive strikes and social unrest of 1969–1970, that combined with the later 1973 oil crisis, gradually cooled the economy, which has never returned to its heady post-war growth rates. The Italian economy experienced an average rate of growth of GDP of 5.8% per year between 1951 and 1963, and 5.0% per year between 1964 and 1973. Italian rates of growth were second only, but very close, to the German rates, in Europe, and among the OEEC countries only Japan had been doing better. In 1963, US President John F. Kennedy personally praised Italy's extraordinary economic growth at an official dinner with Italian President Antonio Segni in Rome, stating that \"the growth of [...] nation's economy, industry, and living standards in the postwar years has truly been phenomenal. A nation once literally in ruins, beset by heavy unemployment and inflation, has expanded its output and assets, stabilized its costs and currency, and created new jobs and new industries at a rate unmatched in the Western world\".\n\nThe impact of the economic miracle on Italian society was huge. Fast economic expansion induced massive inflows of migrants from rural Southern Italy to the industrial cities of the North. Emigration was especially directed to the factories of the so-called \"industrial triangle\", the region placed between the major manufacturing centres of Milan and Turin and the seaport of Genoa. Between 1955 and 1971, around 9 million people are estimated to have been involved in inter-regional migrations in Italy, uprooting entire communities and creating large metropolitan areas.\n\nThe needs of a modernizing economy and society created a great demand for new transport and energy infrastructures. Thousands of miles of railways and highways were completed in record times to connect the main urban areas, while dams and power plants were built all over Italy, often without regard for geological and environmental conditions. A concomitant boom of the real estate market, increasingly under pressure by strong demographic growth and internal migrations, led to the explosion of urban areas. Vast neighborhoods of low-income apartments and social housing were built in the outskirts of many cities, leading over the years to severe problems of congestion, urban decay and street violence. The natural environment was constantly under strain by unregulated industrial expansion, leading to widespread air and water pollution and ecological disasters like the Vajont Dam disaster and the Seveso chemical accident, until a green consciousness developed starting from the 1980s.\n\nAt the same time, the doubling of Italian GDP between 1950 and 1962 had a massive impact on society and culture. Italian society, largely rural and excluded from the benefits of modern economy during the first half of the century, was suddenly flooded with a huge variety of cheap consumer goods, such as automobiles, televisions and washing machines. From 1951 to 1971, average per capita income in real terms trebled, a trend accompanied by significant improvements in consumption patterns and living conditions. In 1955, for instance, only 3% of households owned refrigerators and 1% washing machines, while by 1975 the respective figures were 94% and 76%. In addition, 66% of all homes had come to possess cars. In 1954 the national public broadcasting RAI began a regular television service.\n\nThe pervasive influence of the mass media and consumerism on society in Italy has often been fiercely criticized by intellectuals like Pier Paolo Pasolini and Luciano Bianciardi, who denounced it as a sneaky form of homologation and cultural decay. Popular movies like \"The Easy Life\" (1962) and \"I Mostri\" (1963) by Dino Risi, \"Il Boom\" (1963) by Vittorio De Sica and \"We All Loved Each Other So Much\" (1974) by Ettore Scola all stigmatized selfishness and immorality that characterized the miracle's roaring years.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27369784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27369784", "title": "Jingnan Campaign", "text": "Jingnan Campaign\n\nJingnan Campaign, or Jingnan Rebellion, was a civil war in the early years of the Ming Dynasty of China between the Jianwen Emperor and his uncle Zhu Di, the Prince of Yan. It started in 1399 and lasted for three years. The campaign ended after the forces of the Prince of Yan captured the imperial capital Nanjing. The fall of Nanjing was followed by the demise of Jianwen Emperor, and Zhu Di was crowned the Yongle Emperor.\n\nAfter establishing the Ming Dynasty, Zhu Yuanzhang began to consolidate the authority of the royal court. He assigned territories to the members of the royal family and stationed them across the empire. These members of the royal family did not have the administrative power over their territory, but they were entitled to a personal army that ranged from 3,000 to 19,000 men. Royal members that were stationed in the northern frontier were entitled to even larger forces. For instance, the Prince of Ning was said to have had an army of over 80,000 men.\n\nThe original crown prince Zhu Biao died at 36 in 1392, and his son Zhu Yunwen was made the crown prince. Zhu Yunwen was the nephew of the territorial princes, and he felt threatened by their military power. In May 1398, Zhu Yunwen ascended to the throne and became the Jianwen Emperor after the death of Zhu Yuanzhang. The princes were ordered to stay in their respective territories as the new emperor began planning for the reduction of their military power with his close associates Qi Tai and Huang Zicheng.\n\nImmediately after his ascension to the throne, Zhu Yunwen, now the Jianwen Emperor, began the plan to reduce the power of each territorial prince. It was proposed that the power of Zhu Di, the Prince of Yan, should be reduced first since he had the largest territory, but the proposal was declined.\n\nIn July 1398, Prince of Zhou was arrested in Kaifeng on treason charges. He was stripped of royal status and exiled to Yunnan.\nIn April 1399, the princes of Qi, Xiang and Dai were stripped of their royal status. The princes of Qi and Dai were placed under house arrest in Nanjing and Datong, respectively, while the Xiang prince committed suicide. Two months later, the Prince of Min also lost his royal status and was exiled to Fujian. As the rift between regional princes and the imperial court grew, the Prince of Yan, who commanded the most powerful military, effectively assumed the leadership role.\n\nIn December 1398, to prevent the potential attack from Prince of Yan, Jianwen Emperor appointed several imperial staff to Beiping (present day Beijing) where Zhu Di was stationed. In response, Zhu Di pretended to be ill while preparing for the anticipated war. However, the conspiracy was reported to the imperial staff in Beiping by one of the staff in Yan court. As a result, the arrest for Prince of Yan was ordered by the imperial court. Zhang Xin, one of the imperial staff, decided to leak the imperial order to Prince of Yan. To prepare for the imminent arrest, Zhu Di ordered his general Zhang Yu to gather 800 men to patrol the Yan residence in Beiping.\n\nIn July, the imperial staff surrounded the Yan residence, and Zhu Di responded by executing the imperial staff and stormed the gates of Beiping. By nightfall, Zhu Di was in control of the city and officially rebelled against the imperial court. For the next several days, the Yan forces captured Tongzhou, Jizhou, Dunhua and Miyun. By the end of July, Juyong Pass, Huailai and Yongping all fell to the Yan forces and the entire Beiping area was effectively under Yan control.\n\nAs the Yan forces captured Huailai, Prince of Gu fled to Nanjing from his territory in Xuanfu, which was situated near the Yan forces. In August, the imperial order demanded that the Prince of Liao and Ning return to Nanjing. The Prince of Liao accepted the order while the Prince of Ning rejected it. Prince of Dai intended to support the Yan forces, but was forced to remain under house arrest in Datong.\n\nIn July 1399, the news of the rebellion had arrived in Nanjing. Jianwen Emperor ordered the removal of royal status from Prince of Yan and began to assemble an attack on Yan forces. A headquarters for the expedition was set up in Zhending, Hebei province.\n\nSince many of the generals in the Ming court have either died or been purged by Zhu Yuanzhang, the lack of experienced military commanders was a major concern. With no other options, the 65-year-old Geng Bingwen was appointed as the commander and led 130,000 government forces north on an expedition against the Yan forces. On 13 August, the government forces arrived in Zhending. To prepare for the offensive, the forces were divided and stationed in Hejian, Zhengzhou and Xiongxian separately. On 15 August, the Yan forces assaulted Xiongxian and Zhengzhou by surprise and captured both of the cities while annexing its forces.\n\nOne of the generals in Geng Bingwen’s camp surrendered to Zhu Di and informed him of the positions of Geng Bingwen forces. Zhu Di instructed the general to return the message that the Yan forces were approaching soon, to convince Geng Bingwen to gather his forces together to prepare for the general attack.\n\nOn 24 August, the Yan forces arrived in Wujixian. Based on the information gathered from the locals and the surrendered troops, they began to prepare to raid the government forces.\n\nThe Yan forces launched a surprise raid on Geng Bingwen the next day, and a full-scale battle ensued. Zhu Di personally led a strike force against the flank of government forces, and Geng Bingwen suffered a crushing defeat as a result. Over 3000 men surrendered to the Yan forces, and the remainder of the government forces fled back to Zhending. General Gu Cheng surrendered to Zhu Di. For the next several days, the Yan forces attempted to capture Zhending but were unable to succeed. On 29 August, the Yan forces withdrew back to Beiping. Gu Cheng were sent back to Beiping to assist Zhu Gaochi with the defense of the city.\n\nAs the news of Geng Bingwen's defeat reached back to Nanjing, the Jianwen Emperor was starting to grow concerned about the war. Li Jinglong was proposed by Huang Zicheng as the new commander, and the proposal was accepted despite of opposition from Qi Tai. On 30 August, Li Jinglong led a total of 500,000 men and advanced to Hejian. As the news reached the Yan camp, Zhu Di was certain of a Yan victory by outlining the weakness of Li Jinglong.\n\nOn 1 September, government forces from Liaodong began to lay siege to the city of Yongping. Zhu Di led the Yan forces to reinforce the city on 19 September and defeated the Liaodong forces by 25 September. Following the victory, Zhu Di decided to raid the city of Daning controlled by Prince of Ning in order to annex his army. The Yan forces reached Daning on 6 October, and Zhu Di went inside the city. He was able to coerce the Prince of Ning and the troops in Daning to submit to him, and the strength of the Yan forces increased significantly.\n\nUpon learning that Zhu Di is away in Daning, the government forces led by Li Jinglong crossed Lugou Bridge and began to attack Beiping. However, Zhu Gaochi was able to hold off the attacks. On one occasion, the government forces almost broke into the city, but the attack was held back by a suspicious Li Jinglong.\nThe temperature in Beiping is subzero during the month of October, and the Yan defenders poured water on the city walls at nightfall. As the walls were covered in ice the next day, the government forces were prevented from scaling the walls.\nThe government forces were composed of soldiers from the south, and they were unable to sustain their attack in the cold weather.\n\nOn 19 October, the Yan forces gathered in Huizhou and began its march back to Beiping. By 5 November, the Yan forces were in the outskirts of Beiping and defeated the scout forces of Li Jinglong. The main army of each side engaged in Zhengcunba for a major battle in the same day, and forces of Li Jinglong suffered a crushing defeat.\nAt nightfall, Li Jinglong retreated from Zhengcunba hastily, and the remaining attack force in Beiping were subsequently surrounded and defeated by the Yan forces.\n\nThe Battle of Zhengcunba was concluded by the retreat of Li Jinglong back to Dezhou. The government forces lost more than 100,000 men in this battle.\nOn 9 November, Zhu Di returned to Beiping and wrote to the imperial court about his intention to remove Qi Tai and Huang Zicheng from their post. Jianwen Emperor declined to respond. In December, Wu Gao was dismissed from his post in Liaodong by the imperial court, and Zhu Di decided to attack Datong. The Yan forces reached Guangchang on 24 December, and the garrison surrendered. On 1 January 1400, the Yan forces reached Weizhou and was met with no resistance yet again. On 2 February, the Yan forces reached Datong and began its siege on the city. The strategic importance of Datong was significant to the imperial court, and Li Jinglong was forced to reinforce the city in a hurried manner. However, Zhu Di returned to Beiping before the government forces could arrive, and the government forces suffered a considerable number of non-combat casualties.\nWith his troops exhausted, Jinglong wrote to Zhu Di and requested for armistice.\nDuring the attack in Datong, several forces from Mongolia surrendered to the Yan forces. In February, the garrison at Baoding also surrendered.\n\nIn April 1400, Li Jinglong mobilized 600,000 men and began advancing northwards toward the Baigou River. On 24 April, the Yan forces engaged with the government forces in a decisive battle.\nThe government forces ambushed Zhu Di, and the Yan forces suffered a series of defeats initially. Landmines were placed in the retreat path of the Yan forces by the government forces, which inflicted heavy losses to the Yan Army on their way back to the camp.\nA new battle ensued the following day, and the government forces were successful in attacking the rear of the Yan forces. Zhu Di led a personal charge against the main force of Li Jinglong, and the battle turned into a stalemate as Zhu Gaochi arrived with reinforcements.\nAt this point, the wind started to blow and snapped the flag of Li Jinglong in half, which led to chaos in the government camp. Zhu Di seized the opportunity and launched a general assault and defeated the government forces. More than 100,000 government troops surrendered to the Yan forces, and Li Jinglong retreated back to Dezhou once again.\n\nOn 27 April, the Yan forces began marching toward Dezhou to lay the city to siege. The Yan forces captured Dezhou on 9 May, and Li Jinglong was forced to flee to Jinan. The Yan forces followed up immediately and encircled the city of Jinan on 15 May, and Li Jinglong fled back to Nanjing. Despite losing the entire army and being condemned by the imperial court, Li Jinglong was spared of execution.\n\nAs the city of Jinan was under siege by the Yan forces, the defenders led by Tie Xuan and Sheng Yong refused to surrender. On 17 May, the Yan forces diverted the river to flood the city. Tie Xuan pretended to surrender and lured Zhu Di to the city gate. As Zhu Di approached the city gate, he was ambushed by the government forces and fled back to the camp. The siege continued for the next three months. The strategic important of Jinan was crucial, and Zhu Di was determined to capture the city. After suffering several setbacks during the siege, Zhu Di turned to the use of cannons. In response, the defenders resorted to placing several plaques written with the name of Zhu Yuanzhang, father of Zhu Di, on top of the city walls. Zhu Di was forced to stop the bombardment.\n\nIn June, Jianwen Emperor dispatched an envoy to negotiate for peace, but it was rejected by Zhu Di. The government reinforcements arrived in Hejian around July, and disrupted the supply line of the Yan forces. With the supply line threatened, Zhu Di was forced to withdraw back to Beiping on 16 August. The garrison in Jinan followed up and recaptured the city of Dezhou. Both Tie Xuan and Sheng Yong were promoted to replace the commanding post previously led by Li Jinglong. The government forces advanced back north and settled in Dingzhou and Cangzhou.\n\nIn October 1400, Zhu Di was informed that the government forces were marching northwards, and decided to launch a preemptive strike on Cangzhou. Departing from Tongzhou on 25 October, the Yan forces reached Cangzhou by 27 October and captured the city in two days. The Yan forces crossed the river and arrived in Dezhou on 4 November. Zhu Di attempted to summon Sheng Yong to surrender, but was refused. Sheng Yong was defeated while leading an attack on the rear of the Yan Army. In November, the Yan forces have arrived in Linqing, and Zhu Di decided to disrupt the government supply line to force Sheng Yong to abandon Jinan. To counter the decision, Sheng Yong planned for a decisive battle in Dongchang, and armed his troops with gunpowder weapons and poisonous crossbows.\n\nOn 25 December, the Yan forces arrived in Dongchang. Sheng Yong successfully lured Zhu Di into his encirclement, in which the Yan general Zhang Yu was killed in action while trying to break Zhu Di out. While Zhu Di was able to flee from the battlefield, the Yan forces suffered another defeat the next day and were forced to withdraw.\nOn 16 January 1401, the Yan forces returned to Beiping. The Battle of Dongchang was the largest defeat suffered by Zhu Di since the onset of the campaign, and he was particularly saddened by the death of Zhang Yu. During the battle, Zhu Di was almost killed on numerous occasions. However, the government forces were instructed by Jianwen Emperor to refrain from killing Zhu Di, which the Prince of Yan took advantage of.\n\nThe news of victory following the Battle of Dongchang was well received by Jianwen Emperor. In January 1401, Qi Tai and Huang Zicheng were restored of their posts, and the emperor went on to worship the imperial ancestral temple in Nanjing. The military morale of Sheng Yong forces received a significant boost, and the Yan forces stayed clear of Shandong in subsequent attacks.\n\nThe defeat at Dongchang was a humiliating loss for Zhu Di, but his close advisor Yao Guangxiao supported to continue military operations. The Yan forces mobilised again on 16 February 1401 and marched southwards.\n\nIn anticipation of a Yan strike, Sheng Yong stationed himself in Dezhou with 200,000 troops, while placing the remainder of the forces in Zhending. Zhu Di decided to strike Sheng Yong first. On 20 March, the Yan forces encountered the forces of Sheng Yong in Jia River near Wuyi. On 22 March, the Yan forces crossed the Jia River. Seeing that the camp of Sheng Yong was heavily guarded, Zhu Di decided to personally scout the opponent to search for weak spots. Since Jianwen Emperor forbade the killing of Zhu Di, the government forces refrained from shooting at Zhu Di as he scouted around with minimal harassment.\n\nAfter the scouting operation, Zhu Di led the Yan forces and attacked the left wing of Sheng Yong. The ensuing battle lasted until the nightfall, in which both sides suffered an equal number of casualties. Both sides engaged again the next day. After several hours of intense fighting, the wind suddenly started to blow from the northeast to southwest toward the government positions. The government forces were unable to battle against the wind as the Yan forces ran over their positions. Sheng Yong was forced to retreat to Dezhou. Government reinforcements from Zhending also retreated after hearing the news of Sheng Yong's defeat.\n\nThe Battle of Jia River re-established the military edge for Prince of Yan. On 4 March, Qi Tai and Huang Zicheng were held accountable for the loss and were dismissed from their post. The emperor instructed them to recruit troops from other areas.\n\nAfter the defeat of Sheng Yong in Jia River, the Yan forces advanced to Zhending. Zhu Di managed to lure the government forces out of the city and engaged them in Gaocheng on 9 March. Facing the gunpowder weapons and crossbows utilised by the government forces, the Yan Army suffered heavy losses. The battle ensued the next day, and a severe wind started to blow. The government forces were unable to hold on to its position and were crushed by the Yan forces.\n\nFrom Baigou River to Jia River and Gaocheng, the Yan forces were aided by the wind in all of these occasions. Zhu Di was convinced that the Yan forces were destined for victory.\n\nIn the immediate aftermath of Battle of Jia River-Gaocheng, the Yan forces took the advantage and marched southwards with no resistance. Zhu Di demanded for peace talks, and Jianwen Emperor consulted with advisor Fang Xiaonu for opinions. Fang Xiaonu suggested to pretend to negotiate while ordering the forces in Liaodong to strike Beiping. The strategy did not work as planned, and in May Sheng Yong sent out an army to attack the supply line of the Yan Army. Zhu Di claimed that Sheng Yong refused to stop military actions with ill intentions, and managed to convince Jianwen Emperor to imprison Sheng Yong.\n\nAs both sides ceased to negotiate, Zhu Di decided to raid the supply line of the government forces to starve the defenders in Dezhou. On 15 June, the Yan forces successfully destroyed the main food storage of the government forces in Pei, and Dezhou was on the brink of collapse. In July, the Yan forces captured Pengde and Linxian. On 10 July, government forces from Zhending launched a raid on Beiping. Zhu Di divided the army to reinforce Beiping and defeated the government forces by 18 September. In hope to reverse the tides of the battle, imperial advisor Fang Xiaonu attempted to intensify the existing distrust between the first and second son of Zhu Di, Zhu Gaochi and Zhu Gaoxu, but the strategy failed once again.\n\nOn 15 July, government forces led by Fang Zhao from Datong began to approach Baoding, threatening Beiping, and Zhu Di was forced to withdraw. The Yan forces had a decisive victory in Baoding on 2 October, and Fang Zhao retreated back to Datong. On 24 October, the Yan forces returned to Beiping. The government forces from Liaodong attempted to raid the city again, but the attack was repelled.\n\nThe Jingnan Campaign has been ongoing for more than two years up until this point. Despite of numerous victories, the Yan forces were unable to hold on to territories due to lack of manpower.\n\nBy the winter of 1401, Zhu Di decided to alter the general offensive strategy. The Yan forces were to skip the strongholds of the government forces, and advance straight south toward the Yangtze River.\n\nOn 2 December, the Yan forces mobilised and began advancing southward. In the month of January, the Yan forces stormed across Shandong and captured Dong'e, Dongping, Wenshang and Pei. On 30 January 1402, the Yan forces reached Xuzhou, the major transportation hub.\n\nIn response to the mobilisation of the Yan forces, Jianwen Emperor ordered Mei Ying to defend Huai'an, and ordered Xu Huizu to reinforce Shandong. On 21 February, the government forces in Xuzhou refused to engage with the Yan forces to focus on defending the city after suffering a defeat.\n\nZhu Di decided to skip Xuzhou and continued to advance southward. The Yan forces went past Suzhou, defended by Pin An, and reached Bengbu by 9 March. Ping An pursued the Yan forces but was ambushed by Zhu Di at Fei River on 14 March, which forced the Pin An to retreat back to Suzhou.\n\nOn 23 March, Zhu Di dispatched an army to disrupt the supply line of Xuzhou. The Yan forces arrived at the Sui River on 14 April, and settled across the river facing the government camp. A battle broke out on 22 April in which the government forces led by Xu Yaozu were victorious. As the government forces had victories one after another, the military morale of the Yan forces started to plummet. Soldiers of the Yan forces were mostly from the north, and they were unaccustomed to the heat as summertime approaches. The generals of Zhu Di proposed a withdrawal to regroup, in which Zhu Di rejected.\n\nDuring this time, the imperial court received rumours that the Yan forces have retreated back north. Jianwen Emperor recalled Xu Yaozu back to Nanjing, which reduced the government strength in north of the Yangtze River. On 25 April, the government forces moved the camp to Lingbi and began to set up fortifications. A series of battle ensued, and the government forces gradually ran out of food supply as the Yan forces successfully blocked the supply line. With the imminent shortage of food supply, the government forces planned to break out of Yan encirclement and regroup in the Huai River. The break out signal was decided as three shots of cannon fire. On the next day, the Yan forces happened to attack Lingbi fortification with the same signal. The government forces completely collapsed in a state of confusion as the Yan forces stormed to take over and ended the battle.\n\nThe main strength the government forces were crushed decisively in the Battle of Lingbi, and the Yan forces were now unmatched in the north of Yangtze River.\n\nAfter the Battle of Lingbi, the Yan forces advanced straight toward the southeast and captured Sizhou on 7 May. Sheng Yong attempted to set up a defense line in the Huai River to prevent the Yan forces from crossing. As the attack was halted in Huai’an, Zhu Di divided the army and launched a converging attack on Sheng Yong. Sheng Yong was defeated, and the Yan forces captured Xuyi.\n\nOn 11 May, the Yan forces marched toward Yangzhou, and the city surrendered on one week later. The nearby city of Gaoyou also surrendered soon after.\n\nThe fall of Yangzhou was a devastating blow for the government forces, as the imperial capital Nanjing is now exposed to a direct attack. After discussing with Fang Xiaoru, the Jianwen Emperor decided to negotiate again with Zhu Di to delay the attack while calling for help from other provinces. The nearby provinces of Suzhou, Ningbo and Huizhou all dispatched an army to protect the imperial capital.\n\nOn 22 May, Zhu Di rejected the negotiation for armistice. On 1 June, the Yan forces were about to cross the Yangtze River, but was met with firm resistance from Sheng Yong. After suffering a few setbacks, Zhu Di was considering to accept the peace offer and withdraw back to the north. Zhu Gaoxu arrived with reinforcement in a decisive moment and crushed the forces of Sheng Yong. During the preparation for river crossing, the Yan forces obtained several warships from the government navy. The Yan forces crossed the Yangtze River from Guazhou on 3 June, and Sheng Yong was once again defeated. On 6 June, Zhenjiang fell to the Yan forces.\n\nBy 8 June, the Yan forces advanced to 30 km east of Nanjing. The imperial court was in a state of panic, and Jianwen Emperor frantically dispatched several envoys in hopes to negotiate for armistice. Zhu Di rejected the notion and the Yan forces marched toward the imperial capital.\n\nNanjing was effectively isolated by 12 June. All messengers dispatched to other provinces were intercepted by the Yan forces, and no reinforcement was in sight for the imperial capital. On 13 July 1402, the Yan forces arrived in Nanjing. The city defenders decided to open up the city gate and surrender without resistance. With the fall of Nanjing to the Prince of Yan Army, the Jingnan Campaign has drawn to an end.\n\nAs the Yan forces marched into Nanjing, Jianwen Emperor set the imperial palace on fire in despair. While the body of Empress Ma was located afterwards, the body of Jianwen Emperor had vanished and was never found. The emperor was alleged to have escaped through the tunnels and went into hiding.\n\nZhu Di decided to go on and hold an imperial funeral for the emperor to imply his death to the general public. On 17 June, Zhu Di was crowned at the imperial palace and became the Yongle Emperor. All of the Jianwen policies were reversed to the original policies set during the reign of Hongwu Emperor.\n\nOn 25 June, Qi Tai, Huang Zicheng and Fang Xiaoru were all executed, and their families exterminated. Various other imperial advisors to the Jianwen Emperor were either executed or committed suicide, and their families were exiled by the new government. Majority of these families were pardoned and allowed to return to their homeland during the reign of Hongxi Emperor.\n\nDuring the early reign of the Yongle Emperor, the territorial princes were restored of their positions. However, they were relocated away from the frontiers, and gradually stripped of their military power. With the subsequent policies enforced by the Yongle Emperor, the emperor was successful in consolidating the power of the central government. In 1426, the Xuande Emperor managed to force all of the territorial princes to renounce their remaining personal army after suppressing the rebellion of Zhu Gaoxu.\n\nThe Yongle Emperor began the preparation for relocating the imperial capital to Beiping in 1403, a process that lasted throughout his entire reign. The construction of the future Forbidden City along with the restructuring of the Grand Canal were constantly ongoing. In 1420, the reconstruction of Beiping City was completed, and the Ming Dynasty officially relocated the imperial capital to Beiping and renamed the city to \"Beijing\". With the exception of Republic of China between 1928 and 1949, Beijing remains to be the fixed capital of China ever since.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3356765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3356765", "title": "Kennedy Royal Commission", "text": "Kennedy Royal Commission\n\nThe Royal commission into whether there has been corrupt or criminal conduct by any Western Australian Police Officer, commonly known as the Kennedy Royal Commission, was a Royal Commission established in 2002 by the state government of Western Australia to determine whether any officer of the Western Australia Police had engaged in corrupt or criminal conduct. The commission issued an interim report on 20 December 2002 and a final report on 30 January 2004.\nThe commissioner was Hon. G. A. Kennedy QC. Establishment of the commission arose from widespread public concern over the behaviour and integrity of the Western Australia Police. The terms of reference required inquiry into factual matters and the effectiveness of police procedures.\n\nThe final report of the commission concluded that:\n\"... the full range of corrupt or criminal conduct from stealing to assaults, perjury, drug dealing and the improper disclosure of confidential information have been examined. [the Western Australian Police force] has been ineffective in monitoring those events and modifying its procedures to deal with that conduct and to prevent its repetition.\" ... \"The fact that there remain in WAPS a number of officers who participated in this conduct, and who not only refused to admit it, but also uniformly denied it with vehemence, is a matter of concern.\"\nA principal recommendation was that a Crime and Corruption Commission be established as an oversight body in a system where \"the Commissioner of Police should retain the primary responsibility for managing the discipline of the Police Service\".\n\n"}
{"id": "5672680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5672680", "title": "Laws regarding rape", "text": "Laws regarding rape\n\nRape is a type of sexual assault initiated by one or more persons against another person without that person's consent. The act may be carried out by physical force, or where the person is under threat or manipulation, or with a person who is incapable of valid consent. It is the name of a statutory crime in jurisdictions such as England and Wales, Northern Ireland, Scotland, California, and New York, and is a legal term of art used in the definition of the offence of sexual violation in New Zealand.\n\nDefinitions of \"rape\" vary, and though rape is usually dependent upon whether or not consent was present during the act, the term \"consent\" varies as well. Minors, for example, are often considered too young to consent to sexual relations with older persons (see statutory rape and age of consent). Consent is also considered invalid if obtained under duress, or from a person who does not have the ability to understand the nature of the act, due to factors such as young age, mental disability, or substance intoxication.\n\nMany jurisdictions, such as Canada, and the several US and Australian states, have abandoned the term 'rape' in favor of other terms such as 'sexual assault', 'sexual intercourse without consent', 'criminal sexual conduct', etc.\n\nDepending on the jurisdiction, rape may be characterized as a sexual offence or an offence against the person.\nRape may also be characterized as a form of aggravated assault or battery, or both, indecent assault or sexual assault or battery, or both.\n\nTo sustain a conviction, rape might require proof that the defendant had sexual penetration with another person. Depending on the jurisdiction, the actus reus of rape may consist of \"having carnal knowledge of\" a woman, or \"having sexual intercourse with\" a woman (including a girl) specifically, or either a woman or a man (including a girl or a boy) generally, or engaging in sexual intercourse with a person (which term includes an intersex person who might arguably be neither a woman nor a man) or having \"sexual connection\" with a person affected by penile penetration of that person's genitalia, or penile penetration of the vagina, anus or mouth (these terms construed as including surgically constructed organs) of a person.\n\nIn \"Prosecutor v. Anto Furundžija\", the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia included fellatio in the definition of rape, because [para 183]: \"The Trial Chamber holds that the forced penetration of the mouth by the male sexual organ constitutes a most humiliating and degrading attack upon human dignity. The essence of the whole corpus of international humanitarian law as well as human rights law lies in the protection of the human dignity of every person, whatever his or her gender\".\n\nCountries around the world differ in how they deal with the mens rea element in the law regarding rape, (i.e. the belief of the accused that the victim is not consenting or might not be consenting), and in how they place the onus of proof with regard to belief of consent.\n\nFor example, under the Sexual Offences Act 2003, the belief must be \"reasonable\" and \"Whether a belief is reasonable is to be determined having regard to all the circumstances, including any steps A has taken to ascertain whether B consents\".\n\nIn some jurisdictions the mens rea is quite complex, such as in New South Wales, where the law reads:\n\nSection 61HA Consent in relation to sexual assault offences\n\n(3) Knowledge about consent\n\nA person who has sexual intercourse with another person without the consent of the other person \"knows that the other person does not consent\" to the sexual intercourse if:\n\nFor the purpose of making any such finding, the trier of fact must have regard to all the circumstances of the case:\n\nThe Explanatory Report of the Istanbul Convention, states at para 189: \"The interpretation of the word “intentionally” is left to domestic law, but the requirement for intentional conduct relates to all the elements of the offence\". [in regard to Article 36 of the Convention – Sexual violence, including rape].\n\nRape has been defined so as to require proof that the sexual act in question was done without the victim's consent, or so as to require proof that it was done either without their consent or, alternatively, against their will.\n\nThere is not always a requirement that the victim did not consent. In the England and Wales, section 5 of the Sexual Offences Act 2003 creates the offence of \"rape of a child under 13\" and contains no reference to consent. After describing the sexual act the offence prohibits, the explanatory notes to the Act say \"whether or not the child consented to this act is irrelevant\".\n\nIn M.C. v. Bulgaria, the European Court of Human Rights ruled that the victim does not necessarily have to resist physically for the crime of rape to be committed [para 166]:\n\nSome circumstances, such as where the victim is kidnapped or in detention, or under conditions of war or genocide, may be viewed as so coercive, that they presume non-consent altogether; for example in \"ICTY, The Prosecutor v. Kunarac, Kovac and Vukovic\", it was ruled, in regard to the rape during the Bosnian War, where women were kept in detention centers, under extremely harsh conditions, and were selected for sex by soldiers and policemen, that [para 132]: \"Such detentions amount to circumstances that were so coercive as to negate any possibility of consent\".\n\nThe issue arises in law as who can legally consent, for example with regard to persons who suffer from mental or physical disability. Although laws differ by jurisdiction, emerging international standards suggest that a person's mental or physical disability, should not, \"in and of itself\", render the sexual interaction illegal, but rather \"the exploitation or abuse\" of such disability by the perpetrator should do so: in the European Union, the \"Directive 2011/93/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 December 2011\" reads (with regard to the determination of legal consent of a child who is above the age of consent): \"(10) Disability, by itself, does not automatically constitute an impossibility to consent to sexual relations. However, the abuse of the existence of such a disability in order to engage in sexual activities with a child should be criminalised\".\n\nFrom the second part of the 20th century onwards, the crime of rape has undergone major changes in definition in many countries, especially in Western countries. It has evolved from its narrow traditional definition of forced penetration of a vagina by a penis, outside of marriage, to a broader definition, which includes forced sex in marriage (marital rape), and may also include other sexual acts (such as anal or oral sexual penetration); the latter were traditionally dealt with under sodomy laws. This redefinition of rape had the effect of defining male rape. There have also been changes in the legal definition of consent/coercion.\n\nTwo different changes have been made in recent decades in many jurisdictions in regard to the criminal offense of rape as it relates to marital status:\n\n\nThroughout much of the history, rape in marriage was not a crime. Most cultures subscribed to the idea of the existence of 'conjugal rights' to sexual intercourse with one's spouse, and, until well into the 20th century, most legal systems generally accepted, overtly or tacitly, that such 'rights' could be taken by force, against the will of the wife. Traditional understanding and views of marriage, rape, sexuality, gender roles and self determination have started to be challenged in most Western countries during the 1960s and 1970s, which has led to the subsequent criminalization of marital rape during the following decades. With a few notable exceptions, it was during the past 30 years when most laws against marital rape have been enacted. Several countries in Eastern Europe and Scandinavia made spousal rape illegal before 1970, but other countries in Western Europe and the English-speaking Western World outlawed it much later, mostly in the 1980s and 1990s.\n\nMarital rape is included in the 1993 Declaration on the Elimination of Violence Against Women as a form of violence against women, which reads:\n\nIt is also included in the Council of Europe Recommendation Rec(2002)5 of the Committee of Ministers to member states on the protection of women against violence, which reads:\n\nIn addition, the World Health Organization, defines sexual violence as: \"any sexual act, attempt to obtain a sexual act, unwanted sexual comments or advances, or acts to traffic, or otherwise directed, against a person’s sexuality using coercion, \"by any person regardless of their relationship to the victim\", in any setting, including but not limited to home and work\".\n\nThe countries which choose to ratify the Council of Europe Convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence, the first legally binding instrument in Europe in the field of violence against women, are bound by its provisions to ensure that non-consensual sexual acts committed against a spouse or partner are illegal. The convention came into force in August 2014.\n\nA marry-your-rapist law or rape-marriage law states that a rapist will not be prosecuted if they marry their victim. Although the terms for this phenomenon were only coined in the 2010s, the practice has been supported by the rape laws in many legal systems throughout history. In the late 20th and early 21st century, the remaining laws of this type were increasingly challenged and repealed in a series of countries.\n\nOriginally, in Ancient Rome, 'rape' was a crime-defining primarily the act of a male abducting a female without the consent of the man under whose authority she was (typically father or husband); sexual intercourse was not necessary. Furthermore, in many legal systems (such as 17th century France) the consent of the woman to sexual intercourse was not a defense - the act was still a crime if done without the consent of her father. While the laws on rape differed by historical period and culture, some elements were common to most jurisdictions until the second part of the 20th century (when rape laws underwent major changes): 'rape' was a crime that could be committed only between parties who were not married to each other, and only by a male against a female.\n\nRape was an offense under the common law of England. That offense became an offense under the law of other countries, including Australia and the United States, as a result of colonization or conquest, or the following cession (see British Empire). It is discussed at Rape in English law#History.\n\nUnder this law, rape traditionally describes the act of a male forcing a female to have sexual intercourse (sexual penetration of the vagina by the penis) with him. Common law rape required the utmost physical resistance by the victim, as well as substantial force by the defendant. The common law crime of rape was collectively adopted by the American colonies in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries. Until the late twentieth century, spousal rape was not considered a true rape case because both spouses were deemed to have consented to a lifelong sexual relationship through the wedding vows. However, with changes to the marital rape exemption, as well as with the significant development of women's rights, the belief of a marital right to force sexual intercourse has become less widely held.\n\nRape was also an offense at common law in Scotland. This offense was not derived from the English offense as Scotland retained its own system of criminal law under the terms of the Acts of Union 1707.\n\nIn recent years, there have been various guidelines and recommendations from international human rights organizations in regard to rape and sexual violence. One view that is advanced is that the offense of 'rape' should be replaced with a broader offense of 'sexual assault'. For instance, the \"Handbook for Legislation on Violence against Women\" from the UN Department of Economic and Social Affairs\nDivision for the Advancement of Women gives these suggestions about legislation on sexual violence:\n\nThe Council of Europe Convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence, also known as the Istanbul Convention, which creates legally binding obligations for countries which choose to ratify it, reads:\n\nPunishment for rape in most countries today is imprisonment. Castration is sometimes a punishment for rape and, controversially, some U.S. jurisdictions allow shorter sentences for sex criminals who agree to voluntary chemical castration.\n\nIn the past, rape was often punished with death, and it is punishable by death in at least 10 countries today: China, Afghanistan, United Arab Emirates, Egypt, Bangladesh, Iran, Saudi Arabia, Pakistan, and North Korea. In some of these instances, special circumstances apply. For example, rape is only punishable by death in India if the victim dies or is put in a persistent vegetative state, and/or if the rapist is a repeat offender, and in Iran, a death sentence for rape can be substituted with compensation, with or without imprisonment and flogging, if the victim so chooses.\n\nIn 1977, in \"Coker v. Georgia\" the Supreme Court of the United States held that the death penalty for the crime of rape of an adult woman was cruel and unusual punishment, and thus banned it as a violation of the Eighth Amendment to the United States Constitution, and in 2008 in \"Kennedy v. Louisiana\" it ruled the same in regard to rape of a child.\n\nPrison sentences for rape are not uniform. A study made by the U.S. Department of Justice of prison releases in 1992, involving about 80 percent of the prison population, found that the average sentence for convicted rapists was 9.8 years, while the actual time served was 5.4 years. This follows the typical pattern of violent crimes in the US, where those convicted typically serve no more than half of their sentence.\n\nBetween 2002 and 2003, more than one in ten convicted rapists in Victoria, Australia, served a wholly suspended sentence, and the average total effective sentence for rape was seven years. In the Republic of Ireland, the average sentence given for rape is 5 – 7 years.\n\nWhile the practice is condemned as barbaric by many present-day societies, some societies punish the victims of rape as well as the perpetrators. According to such cultures, being raped dishonors the victim and, in many cases, the victim's family. In some countries (e.g. Libya, Afghanistan) rape victims are sometimes killed to restore honor to the family's name.\n\nIn the Shakespeare drama \"Titus Andronicus\", the title character kills his raped, maimed daughter in what he believes to be a mercy killing.\n\nCertain cultures have historically promoted a system of honor, dishonor, and shame, which was applied with particular strictness to females. A victim of rape would be considered to have lost her honorable reputation and place in society, a loss of honor which entailed shame on the woman's family group as well. In early ancient Rome, ancient China, and other cultures, a pressure has existed which has led women to commit suicide after becoming victims of rape. The iconic Roman instance is that of Lucretia. Likewise, the suicide of female rape victims for reasons of shame is also historically documented in Chinese and Japanese culture.\n\nIn countries which outlaw fornication or adultery, rape victims may become subject to these laws (if they cannot prove the rape case and/or if it is revealed they were not virgins at the time of the assault - in the case of unmarried victims).\n\nChapter 14 (Sexual Offenses) of the 2004 Penal Code of Bhutan outlaws rape and other sexual offenses.\nUnder the criminal code, there are several categories of rape, which are punished differently, depending on factors such as the age of the victim, the relationship between the victim and the perpetrator, the number of participants (gang rape), whether the victim was pregnant, whether the injury occurred. Marital Rape is also recognized as an offense under the 2004 laws, being classified as a petty misdemeanour. The most serious form of rape is Gang rape of a child under twelve years of age, classified as a felony of the first degree.\n\nThe most serious sexual offense is gang rape of a child under 12.\n\nMarital rape is illegal:\n\nThe word \"rape\" is not used in the Canadian Criminal Code. Instead, the law criminalizes \"sexual assault\".\nSexual assault is defined as sexual contact with another person without that other person's consent. Consent is defined in section 273.1(1) as \"the voluntary agreement of the complainant to engage in the sexual activity in question\". For more details, see Sexual assault#Canada.\n\nAny act of sexual penetration, whatever its nature, committed against another person by violence, constraint, threat or surprise, is rape. Rape is punished by a maximum of fifteen years' criminal imprisonment.\n\nRape is punished by a maximum of twenty years' criminal imprisonment in certain aggravating factors (including victim under age of 15).\n\nRape is punished by a maximum of thirty years' criminal imprisonment where it caused the death of the victim.\n\nRape is punished by a maximum of imprisonment for life when it is preceded, accompanied or followed by torture or acts of barbarity.\n\nIn Republic of Ireland law, there are two separate offences of rape:\nThe offences have the same penalty, of life imprisonment, and the same provisions regarding conduct of trials, except that rape under section 4 is an alternative verdict in a rape trial, but not conversely.\n\nThe common-law offence was codified by the Offences against the Person Act 1861 and the Criminal Law (Rape) Act 1981. A statutory definition was introduced by section 2(1) of the 1981 act; as amended it states:\n\nThe act also restricted reference to the alleged victim's past sexual history, and provided anonymity for both parties. Originally, the act referred to \"\"unlawful\" sexual intercourse\"; the word \"unlawful\", intended to preserve the exemption for marital rape, was deleted by the 1990 act.\n\nSection 4 of the 1990 act defines \"rape under section 4\" as follows:\n\nBy section 2 of the 1990 act, \"sexual assault\" is defined in terms of \"indecent assault\", which is not otherwise defined. The 1988 Law Reform Commission (LRC) report on \"rape and allied offences\", on which the 1990 act was based, recommended expanding the common-law definition rather than creating a new offence, and the inclusion of penetration of the anus in the scope of section 4(b). The 1990 act mandated that trials for both rape offences be at the Central Criminal Court, removed the rule that males under 14 were considered incapable of sexual offences, and relaxed the obligation to warn the jury about an alleged victim's uncorroborated testimony. It also specifies that failure to offer resistance is not evidence of consent.\n\nPenal Code, Art. 336 par. 1 creates the offence of rape. It reads:\n\n1. Whoever with physical violence or with threat of grave and direct danger forces another to intercourse or to tolerance or action of an indecent act, is punished with incarceration.\n\nIn Greece, marital rape was made illegal in 2006.\n\nThe 2009 \"Law against Sexual Violence, Exploitation, and Trafficking in Persons\" defines rape as follows:\n\nIn Iran, the sentence for a rape case is a death penalty by hanging in public squares or prisons.\n\nThe definition of the criminal offense of rape in Israel is as follows:\n\nRape\n345.(a)\n\nIf a person had intercourse with a woman\n\n(1)without her freely given consent;\n\n(2)with the woman's consent, which was obtained by deceit in respect of the identity of the person or the nature of the act;\n\n(3)when the woman is a minor below age 14, even with her consent;\n\n(4)by exploiting the woman's state of unconsciousness or other condition that prevents her from giving her free consent;\n\n(5)by exploiting the fact that she is mentally\nill or deficient, if –because of her illness or mental deficiency–her consent to\nintercourse did not constitute free consent;\n\nthen he committed rape and is liable to sixteen years\nimprisonment.\n\nRape is part of the statutory offence of sexual violation. Sexual violation is created by section 128 of the Crimes Act 1961.\n\nSexual violation is defined as follows:\n\nThe mere fact that a person \"allows\" sexual connection to be performed on them, does not automatically mean that they are legally \"consenting\". If that person allows sexual connection due to coercion (e.g., under force, threats or fear of force; when he/she is asleep or very intoxicated; if he/she is affected by an intellectual, mental, or physical condition or impairment of a certain nature and degree; when he/she is mistaken about the partner's identity), then he/she is not legally consenting.\n\n128A Allowing sexual activity does not amount to consent in some circumstances\n\n(1) A person does not consent to sexual activity just because he or she does not protest or offer physical resistance to the activity.\n\n(2) A person does not consent to sexual activity if he or she allows the activity because of—\n\n(3) A person does not consent to sexual activity if the activity occurs while he or she is asleep or unconscious.\n\n(4) A person does not consent to sexual activity if the activity occurs while he or she is so affected by alcohol or some other drug that he or she cannot consent or refuse to consent to the activity.\n\n(5) A person does not consent to sexual activity if the activity occurs while he or she is affected by an intellectual, mental, or physical condition or impairment of such a nature and degree that he or she cannot consent or refuse to consent to the activity.\n\n(6) One person does not consent to sexual activity with another person if he or she allows the sexual activity because he or she is mistaken about who the other person is.\n\n(7) A person does not consent to an act of sexual activity if he or she allows the act because he or she is mistaken about its nature and quality.\n\n(8) This section does not limit the circumstances in which a person does not consent to sexual activity.\n\n(9) For the purposes of this section,—\n\n\"Attempted sexual violation and assault with intent to commit sexual violation\" are also punished (Article 129).\n\nArticle 129A is entitled \"Sexual conduct with consent induced by certain threats\" and makes it illegal for a person to have sexual connection with another person or to do an indecent act on another person when the accused knows that the other person has been induced to consent to the connection/act by threat. However, a person is guilty of this crime \"if (and only if) he or she knows that the other person has been induced to consent\" to the sexual connection/indecent act \"by an express or implied threat\". Subsection (5), (a), (b), (c) of this article defines \"threat\" for the purpose of this article.\n\nArticle 135 outlaws \"Indecent assault\". Article 138 outlaws \"Sexual exploitation of a person with a significant impairment\".\n\nIn Norway, rape is defined under the Norwegian Penal Code § 192 as either:\n\nWhen any of these circumstances occur, a person guilty of rape is punishable by up to 10 years imprisonment. However, if a person is guilty of rape through gross negligence he or she is liable to imprisonment for a period not exceeding five years.\n\nIf the activity in question was sexual intercourse or the offender has rendered a person unconscious or unable to resist the sexual activity, the penalty imposed shall be no less than three years imprisonment.\n\nFurther, the same section defines \"aggravated rape\" as a rape committed\n\nThe section recognizes sexually transmitted diseases (defined in the \"Infection Protection Act\") as grievous bodily harm.\n\nArticle 266-A of the Revised Penal Code (Title Eight of Act No. 3815) provides that:\n\nRape: When And How Committed. – Rape is committed:\n\nChapter 3 of this Code, which relates to rape, was inserted by the Anti-Rape Law of 1997. By section 2 of that Act, the crime of rape is classified as a crime against persons under that Code.\n\nAccording to the Article 131 of the Criminal Code of Russia, rape is defined as heterosexual vaginal intercourse using violence or threat of violence or if the victim is in a helpless state. The other forms of a violent sexual intercourse (male-male, female-male, female-female and non-vaginal male-female) are called \"coercive sexual actions\" and are punishable by the Article 132. These two crimes, however, are punishable identically. Besides, such crimes as sexual relations with a person under the age of consent (16 years as of 2013, article 134) and depraved actions (Article 135), if committed against a person under 12 years since 2012 are considered rape or coercive sexual actions (depending on sex of the offender and the victim and the type of intercourse) and punished according to the articles 131 or 132, because such victim is deemed to be in a helpless state due to his/her age. However, the Article 134 punishes sexual activity between same-sex pairings harsher than sexual activity between opposite-sex pairings when one of the persons is under 16 years old.\n\nRape or coercive sexual actions without any aggravating circumstances are punishable with 3 to 6 years of imprisonment. If the crime:\n\nthen it is punishable with 4 to 10 years of imprisonment with possible subsequent restraint of liberty for up to 2 years (i.e. the criminal may not change or leave residence without permission and must register himself at local penal inspectorate 1 to 4 times a month; court may also impose additional restrictions such as the criminal may not leave home in certain hours, visit certain locations, change work without permission).\n\nIf the crime\n\n\nthen it is punishable with 8 to 15 years of imprisonment with the subsequent mandatory restraint of liberty for up to 2 years and a possible ban on certain occupations or employment positions for up to 20 years.\n\nIf the crime\n\n\nthen it is punishable with 12 to 20 years of imprisonment with the subsequent mandatory restraint of liberty for up to 2 years and a possible ban on certain occupations or employment positions for up to 20 years.\n\nIn South Africa, rape is defined by the Criminal Law (Sexual Offences and Related Matters) Amendment Act, 2007 (Act No. 32 of 2007). This act has repealed the common law offence of rape and replaced it with a new expanded statutory offence of rape, applicable to all forms of sexual penetration without consent, irrespective of gender. Rape is defined in section 3 of the act as follows:\n\nand \"sexual penetration\" is defined as:\n\nThe law also clarifies that marital rape is illegal; section 56 of the Act provides that:\nRape is defined as follows:\n\nMarital rape was made illegal in 1992, and since 2004 marital rape is prosecutable ex-officio (meaning it can be prosecuted even if the wife doesn't complain).\n\nRape of a male is considered a heavy sexual assault/thread and is prosecuted under Art. 189 of the Swiss Penalty Code.\n\nRape under the law of Trinidad and Tobago is an indictable offence, created by section 4 of the Sexual Offenses Act:\n\nSection 4. Rape\n\n(1) Subject to subsection (2), a person (“the accused”) commits the offence of rape when he has sexual intercourse with another person (“the complainant”)—\n\nMarital rape is also illegal; subsection (5) states: \"(5) This section also applies to a husband in relation to the commission of the offence of rape on his wife.\"\n\nRape is a statutory offence and was made illegal in 2005. It is created by section 1 of the Sexual Offences Act 2005.\n\nDefinition of rape\n\nRape is defined as follows:\n\nRape is a statutory offence. It is created by article 5 of the Sexual Offences (Northern Ireland) Order 2008 (S.I. 1769/2008 (N.I. 2)).\nThe common law offence of rape was abolished by article 5(6) of that Order.\n\nRape is defined as follows:\nAny reference to rape in a statutory provision must be construed in accordance with article 5(1) of the said Order.\n\nThis is a statutory offence created by article 12 of the said Order.\n\n\nNo person is liable in tort under the law of Northern Ireland on the ground only of having deprived another of the services of his female servant by raping her.\n\nRape is a statutory offence. It is created by section 1 of the Sexual Offences (Scotland) Act 2009.\n\nRape is defined as follows:\n\nThis offence is created by section 18 of the Sexual Offences (Scotland) Act 2009.\n\nPrior to Sexual Offences (Scotland) Act 2009, rape in Scots Law differed from the definition of rape in other legal systems. In Scotland, rape was defined as \"a crime at common law which consisted of the carnal knowledge of a female by a male person without her consent\". Under Scots law, rape could only be carried out by a male who penetrated a female's vagina. If a man's anus was penetrated by another man's penis, this was called sodomy and was tried under indecent assault, a form of aggravated assault. Likewise, if a male penetrated a female's anus by his penis without her consent, he would also be charged with indecent assault.\n\nIn Scotland, rape can only be prosecuted in the High Court of Justiciary and if convicted, the maximum penalty available to the court is life imprisonment. Evidence of distress can be used as corroborating evidence. Evidence of distress would be recognised by the first person or friend that the victim sees after the event. This should not be confused with hearsay evidence, which is not normally allowed to be led.\n\nOne of the key elements to prosecute a male for rape is to prove that the male had sexual intercourse without the female's consent. For sexual intercourse not to be rape, the \"active\" consent of the female is needed. This means it is not enough for a woman to be 'passive', she must actively consent and was established by Lord Advocate's Reference (No. 1 of 2001). Therefore, a male could still be convicted of rape, even though the female did not say anything or show any resistance. This is a change in the law, as previously men who had sexual intercourse with sleeping women (as in the case of Charles Sweenie) or women who were unconscious due to voluntarily taking drugs or alcohol (see HMA v Logan) were charged with the lesser crime of indecent assault, rather than rape, as they had not used force to achieve penetration. Lord Advocate's Reference (No 1 of 2001), by requiring \"active consent\", had opened up the law to decide whether a voluntarily drunk or intoxicated woman can consent to sexual intercourse. This was clarified under the new laws of 2009 which state that sexual intercourse is non-consensual, and therefore considered rape if it occurs :(...) where the conduct occurs at a time when B is incapable because of the effect of alcohol or any other substance of consenting to it.\n\nPenetration is sufficient for a sexual intercourse to be deemed rape: there needs not to be any excretion of semen and the female's hymen does not have to be ruptured.\n\nIn Scotland, rape continued to be a gender-specific crime until the Sexual Offences (Scotland) Act 2009. This Act came into force on 1 December 2010. The Act expanded the definition of rape to include male rape.\n\nThere is no national rape law in the United States, due to the United States v. Morrison ruling that parts of the Violence Against Women Act of 1994 were unconstitutional. Each state has its own laws concerning sexual aggression. Nor is there any national standard in the US for defining and reporting male-male or female-perpetrated rapes. State laws vary considerably, and in most states, the term \"rape\" is no longer used, and the offense has been replaced by crimes such as \"sexual assault\", \"criminal sexual conduct\", \"sexual abuse\", \"sexual battery\" etc. The US laws on sexual violence are complex, with states having numerous sex offenses, dealing with different situations. The laws on sex crimes have been changed and modernized significantly during the last decades and they continue to change.\n\nUniform Code of Military Justice [USC Title 10, Subtitle A, Chapter 47X, Section 920, Article 120] defines rape as:\n\nMarital rape is banned; the law states: \"Marriage is not a defense for any conduct in issue in any prosecution under this section.\"\n\nAccording to the USA Today reporter Kevin Johnson, \"no other major category of crime – not murder, assault or robbery – has generated a more serious challenge to the credibility of national crime statistics\" as has the crime of rape. He says: \"There are good reasons to be cautious in drawing conclusions from reports on rape. The two most accepted studies available – the FBI's annual Uniform Crime Report and the Justice Department's annual National Crime Victimization Survey – each have widely acknowledged weaknesses.\" The FBI's report fails to report rapes with male victims, both adults and children, fails to report non-forcible rapes of either gender \"by either gender\", and reflects only the number of rapes reported to police. The Justice Department's survey solicits information from people 12 and older, excluding the youngest victims of rape (and incest). However, by using a random national telephone survey of households, the National Crime Victimization Survey could pick up rapes unreported to the police. In addition, since both official reports collect rape data from states with widely divergent standards and definitions on what constitutes rape, uniform reporting is impossible.\n\nA recent attempt to improve the tracking of rape, the National Violence Against Women survey was first published in 1998 by the National Institute of Justice and the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Its authors have acknowledged that they used different methodologies with \"relatively high\" margins of error. The 2000 report notes that \"because annual rape victimization estimates (\"nationwide\") are based on responses from \"only 24 women and 8 men\" (emphasis added) who reported being raped, they should be viewed with caution.\" The report goes on to note that it fails to report rapes perpetrated against children and adolescents, was well as those who were homeless, or living in institutions, group facilities, or in households without telephones.\n\nThe 2006 report of the National Violence Against Women survey was based on the much larger sample size of 8,000 men and 8,000 women. It estimated that \"17.7 million women and 2.8 million men in the United States were forcibly raped at some time in their lives, with 302,091 women and 92,748 men forcibly raped in the year preceding the survey.\" The report defines \"rape\" to include completed and attempted rapes. However, the vast majority of rapes were completed: \"Among all respondents, 14.8 percent of the women and 2.1 percent of the men said they were victims of a completed rape at some time in their life, whereas 2.8 percent of the women and 0.9 percent of the men said they were victims of an attempted rape only.\"\n\nIn addition, many states define sexual crimes other than male-on-female penetration as sexual assault rather than rape. There are no national standards for defining and reporting male-on-male, female-on-female or female-on-male offenses, so such crimes are generally not included in rape statistics unless these statistics are compiled using information from states which count them as rape.\n\nRape crisis statistics can be found from the FBI and the Bureau of Justice as well as the CDC and RAINN (which uses the other resources as its source).\n"}
{"id": "8053520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8053520", "title": "List of Bohol festivals", "text": "List of Bohol festivals\n\n\nThis annual festival of the province commemorates the \"sandugo\" or blood compact between Datu Sikatuna and Miguel López de Legazpi.\nThe feast of Saint Joseph, patron saint of Tagbilaran City, starts the month-long fiestas in Bohol.\nThe culture and traditions of the people of San Isidro are displayed. The festival is a great means for the promotion of tourism, of ecological and agricultural pursuits, the enhancement of folk beliefs and of the natural environment. The festival comprises a street-dancing and a showdown. Showcases of organic farm products from the different barangays of the town are also displayed.\nThis is a music and dance festival.\nThe \"Hudyaka sa Panglao\" takes place on August 28 every year in the grounds of its parish church. The ten barangays of the municipality compete fiercely with each other to see which is the best of the best. Its own dance festival brings back ex-Panglao residents from all over the world, and instead of making a day of it, the music and dance lovers of Panglao try and make a whole week of it…and more. Actually, they take nine days and the whole town has a festive atmosphere with parties all over the place.\nThe Tanda Festival is an annual festival held in May at the town of Tubigon, Bohol in honor of its patron saint, Sr. San Isidro Labrador. Tanda is a unique local Tubigon name which means \"short visit\". Tanda Festival highlights three major events namely; Bulong-Imang Streetdancing and Showdown, Anyag sa Tubigon Beauty Pageant, and Agro-Technological Fair.\n\nBulong-Imang, derived from the rhythmic sound pattern of the drums and gong used in dancing, is a dance of praise and thanksgiving to Sr. San Isidro Labrador.It is held in Holy Cross Academy open field. The Anyag sa Tubigon, features the beauty and wit of Tubigon’s pride ladies in a beauty pageant. And lastly, the Agro-Technological Fair is a display and exhibit of the bountiful harvest of the mountains, farmlands, and the shores of Tubigon set against the backdrop of trading and commerce. \nThe Tanda festival highlights Tubigon’s legacy: from the town’s natural and historical treasures to its culture and history being celebrated in the unique Tubiganon way. The festival highlights the following:Bulong-Imang Streetdancing Competition, Anyag sa Tubigon, Agro-Technological Fair, Bangkarera, Sambunot sa Awit and, Lambay Jam.\nWhat distinguishes Catigbian from other towns is its annual festival, the Katigbawan. A week-long festival comprising various activities like carabao-racing, hog-catching, agrofair, motorcross and a search for Miss Katigbawan. This affair happens only in June.\nA Holy Week procession.\nThe Pandayan Festival is held at Barangay Lonoy, Jagna to celebrate the canonical erection or the parochial anniversary of St. Joseph the Worker Parish. All eight upland barangays of Jagna which is under the parochial jurisdiction of the Parish participates in the activities. Activities include a nine-day novena in honor of the patron saint, a procession of the image of St. Joseph the Worker, Carpentry and Handicrafts Fair, an inter - barangay basketball tournament and last but not least, the street dancing competition.\nThe festival is in honor of St. Francis Xavier.\nStarted almost 20 years ago as a way of veneration of and thanksgiving to the Holy Child, this festival is a prelude to the May 25 fiesta of the barangay. The main feature of Kasadyaan is a street dancing competition participated in by its five traditional household clusters, namely, Inang-angan, Kabaybayunan, Tulay, Wawog and Tubig-Loon. In recent years, the participants have been grouped by “purok”. After the street dancing, the participants perform a tableau, which is also part of the competition. A “sinulog” to the Santo Niño culminates the celebration.\nThis annual festival of lights honors the \"Birhen sa Kasilak\" (Our Lady of Light), patroness of Loon. It also expresses the enduring qualities of the town. The Visayan words \"sidlak\" (rise) and \"silak\" (shine) best describe the character of Loonanons as they conquer life's adversities and make the best out of their inherent talents and capabilities. The various sectors of the community mount sociocultural activities during the ten-day celebration which was started in 2000. Highlighting the festival is a fluvial procession followed by street dancing and dance of lights competitions. Other contests, all requiring the use of light, are also mounted. SidlaKasilak was inspired by past religious processions in Loon when the faithful would light candles in colorful hand-held lanterns or “parow”, the local version of the “parol”. In fact, during the first few years of the festival, the dancers brought traditional lanterns wrapped in Japanese paper. Candles, however, are no match to the wind made even stronger with every sway of the hands that held the lanterns. The Japanese paper, too, could not withstand too much heat nor could it resist the rain. Thus candles were later replaced with permanent yet adjustable lights like flashlights, magic sticks, light-emitting diodes and others. Glazed paper, plastic wrap and cloth have been used instead of Japanese paper. The distinctive nature of SidlaKasilak is manifested in its being the only evening street dancing event in Bohol. In addition, it does not require lavish costumes and props that onlookers do not appreciate in the dark. In fact, participating schools are required to use only their respective student uniforms. Community-based delegations choose their own attire. The contest criteria revolve solely on the lights and have remained the same for many years, to wit: lights design, color harmony and brightness (20%); choreography or movement and formation of lights (40%); and dynamics or manipulation and synchronization of the lights with the music (40%).\nSinugboan Festival is celebrated every May 27 in the municipality of Garcia Hernandez. \"Sinugboan\" is a term closely related to the Cebuano word \"sugbo\" meaning to wallow. The use of the vernacular past tense \"sinugbo\" denotes an event of historical import. The festival highlights the town's annual commemoration of her foundation day. Activities include agro-industrial fair, recognition program for achievers, various games and street dancing competition where the storyline focuses on the creation and establishment of Garcia-Hernandez.\nThe Sinu-og Estokada Festival is celebrated at the town of Jagna in honor of their patron saint, Saint Michael the Archangel where two groups, one coming from barangay Mayana and the other from Cabungaan, perform a native war dance during the vesper procession and also during the morning fluvial procession on the feast day itself which falls on September 29. This distinct cultural tradition has been observed for more than a century and shows the rich cultural heritage of the town. The native war dance is performed with the accompaniment of a drum depicting the battle between the early Jagnaanon Christians and the invading Muslims from Mindanao. The male dancers representing the Jagnaanons recite verses while mimicking the fight with bolos during the dance.\n\nThe Sinu-og Estokada is a modification of the above sinu-og celebration. Here, the native war dance is portrayed as a fight between good and evil where the basic sequence of movements are modified conforming to a rhythm in marching and regular procedure. This festival is joined by the young adolescents of the town.\n\nIt is believed that Saint Michael the Archangel rescued the people from the hands of the invaders at that time and this belief has been handed down to the present generation of Jagnaanons. Thus, Saint Michael the Archangel is much loved and revered by all Jagnaanons and the feast day is celebrated with much fanfare.\n\nThis is a festival of food and Christmas songs.\nFestival in celebration of the ubi tuber, a vegetable (\"Dioscorea alata\"). \n\n"}
{"id": "40889343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40889343", "title": "March (comics)", "text": "March (comics)\n\nThe March trilogy is an autobiographical black and white graphic novel trilogy about the Civil Rights Movement, told through the perspective of civil rights leader and U.S. Congressman John Lewis. The series is written by Lewis and Andrew Aydin, and illustrated and lettered by Nate Powell. The first volume, March: Book One, was published in August 2013, by Top Shelf Productions. and the second volume, March: Book Two, was published in January 2015, with both volumes receiving positive reviews. March: Book Three was published in August 2016 along with a slipcase edition of the \"March\" trilogy.\n\nWhen John Lewis was 15 years old and living in rural Alabama, 50 miles south of Montgomery, he first heard of Rosa Parks, Martin Luther King, Jr., and the Montgomery Bus Boycott through James Lawson, who was working for the Fellowship of Reconciliation (F.O.R.). Lawson introduced Lewis to \"Martin Luther King and the Montgomery Story\", a 10-cent comic book published by F.O.R. that had a profound impact on Lewis. The comic book demonstrated in clear fashion to Lewis the power of the philosophy and the discipline of nonviolence. Lawson became a mentor to Lewis, and Lewis began attending meetings every Tuesday night with approximately 20 other students from Fisk University, Tennessee State University, Vanderbilt University, and American Baptist College to discuss nonviolent protest, with \"The Montgomery Story\" serving as one of their guides. \"The Montgomery Story\" would also influence other civil rights activists, including the Greensboro Four.\n\nLewis became a U.S. congressman for Georgia's 5th congressional district in 1987. While working on his 2008 reelection campaign, Lewis told his telecommunications and technology policy aide, Andrew Aydin, about \"The Montgomery Story\" and its influence.\n\nAydin, who had been reading comics since his grandmother bought him a copy of \"Uncanny X-Men\" #317 off a Piggly Wiggly spinner rack when he was eight years old, found a digital copy of the book on the Internet and spent years tracking down an original print copy on EBay. Aydin explains \"The Montgomery Story\"s influence on \"March\" thus:\n\nAydin repeatedly suggested that Lewis himself write a comic book. (Lewis had previously written a traditional autobiography, \"Walking With the Wind: A Memoir of the Movement\", co-authored with journalist Michael D'Orso and published in 1998. A national bestseller, that book won the Robert F. Kennedy Book Award, was selected as a \"New York Times\" Notable Book of the Year, was included on \"Newsweek\" magazine's list of \"50 Books For Our Times,\" and was named Nonfiction Book of the Year by the American Library Association.) Eventually Lewis decided to commit to Aydin's project, on the condition that Aydin write it with him. Aydin, who was in the middle of writing his master's thesis on \"The Montgomery Story\" and how it helped inspire protest movements around the world, agreed to the project, which he calls a life-changing moment. Much of Aydin's work on the project was listening to Lewis dictate his life story, anecdotes of which Aydin had often heard Lewis relate to children, parents and others visiting his office, and transcribing it.\n\nIn the early 2010s, illustrator Nate Powell learned that Top Shelf would be publishing \"March\", which Lewis and Aydin had finished writing. A few weeks later, Powell was contacted by Top Shelf co-founder Chris Staros, who suggested he try out for the assignment. Although he already had other projects lined up, Powell sent some demo pages to Lewis and Aydin, and over the course of their subsequent correspondence, they realized that Powell would be well-suited for the job. Although Powell had illustrated stories that were \"true to life\", such as the 2012 graphic \"Silence of our Friends\", this would be the first time he would depict real-life historical figures, 300 of which Powell estimates are rendered in total in the trilogy. The scene in which Lewis meets Martin Luther King, Jr. for the first time was the first page Powell drew for \"March\", and although he found approaching that page difficult, he stated it made subsequent depictions of real-life people easier. Powell's approach was to develop a visual shorthand for each real person he had to draw, in the form of a \"master drawing\" to act as a reference template for that person's features, one that emphasized the person's skull structure, in lieu of referring constantly to photo reference in the course of the project, so that the characters would not look \"too stale or photo-derived\". He employed lifestyle and illustration books from the 1950s and 1960s, as well as Google searches, to depict fashion and automobiles of given time periods accurately.\n\nThe creative team eventually realized that the story required 500 – 600 pages, and that it should be broken up into volumes. This allowed Powell to give certain sequences the length he needed to render them at a pace he felt they required, in particular scenes of anxiety or tension. The scene in which Lewis wakes up and prepares to attend the Obama inauguration, for example, was expanded from two pages to five. Other examples were the scenes in which the child John Lewis hid under his house to avoid doing his farm chores or attend school, and the scene in which Lewis took a trip to Alabama through the segregated South with his uncle, which was expanded from two pages to six.\n\nThe first book in the trilogy, \"March: Book One\", was released in August 2013. The second book, \"March: Book Two\", was released January 20, 2015. The third book, \"March: Book Three\" was released August 2, 2016. All of these books are available in paperback as well as e-book formats.\n\nOn March 7, 1965, John Lewis, a young man, stands on the Edmund Pettus Bridge in Selma, Alabama with fellow civil rights activists during the Selma to Montgomery marches on \"Bloody Sunday\". They are confronted by Alabama state troopers, who order the protestors to turn around. When the protestors refuse, the troopers attack them, beating them and dousing them with tear gas.\n\nThe scene cuts to the book's framing sequence, set on January 20, 2009, with Lewis, now a U.S. congressman for Georgia's 5th congressional district, waking up and preparing for the first inauguration of Barack Obama. He is greeted at his office by a woman from Atlanta and her two young sons, who want to learn about their history.\n\nLewis begins telling the family his life story, beginning as a young boy taking care of his parents' chickens on the 110 acres of cotton, corn and peanut fields in Pike County, Alabama that his father bought for $300 cash in 1940. Though Lewis was fond of his chickens and took pride in their care, he really wanted to be a preacher when he grew up, having been inspired by the Bible that an uncle of his gave him for Christmas when he was four years old. By the time he was five, he could read it by himself, having been particularly captivated by the passage in John \"Behold the lamb of God, which taketh away the sins of the world.\" As Lewis grew older, he began spending more time doing schoolwork, studying and learning more about what was happening in the world around him, which would later lead to his involvement in the Civil Rights Movement.\n\nAlthough his parents had raised him to stay out of trouble, other members of his family encourage his interests in civil rights, such as his maternal uncle Otis Carter, a teacher and school principal who had long noted something special in Lewis. Carter took Lewis on Lewis' first trip north in June 1951, driving through the segregated South to Buffalo, New York, whose busy and unsegregated urban life was an \"otherworldly experience\" for young Lewis. Though happy when he returned home, home never felt the same to him. When he started school again months later, he began riding the bus to school, whose segregated nature was another reminder of how different the lives of Lewis and his siblings were from those of white children. Though Lewis enjoyed school, it was sometimes a luxury his family could not afford during planting and harvesting season, when they kept him at home to work on the farm. Lewis responded by sneaking off to school, despite scoldings by his father. In May 1954, near the end of Lewis' freshman year in high school, when the U.S. Supreme Court's decision in the \"Brown v. Board of Education of Topeka\" case ruled public school segregation unconstitutional, Lewis thought it would improve his schooling, but his parents continued to advise him to not cause trouble. He also noticed that the injustices against blacks were not mentioned by local church ministers and that his minister drove a very nice automobile. One Sunday morning in early 1955, Lewis was listening to the radio station WRMA Montgomery, when he heard a sermon by Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Profoundly inspired by King's social gospel and other aspects of the Civil Rights Movement, Lewis, five days before his sixteenth birthday, preached his first public sermon. This event was publicized in the \"Montgomery Advertiser\", marking the first time Lewis saw his name in print. Lewis subsequently attended American Baptist Theological Seminary in Nashville while washing dishes to make money. Wanting to do more for the movement, he repeatedly applied as a transfer student to Troy University, where no black student was allowed, only to be rejected. Lewis wrote to civil rights leaders Ralph Abernathy and Fred Gray, who arranged a meeting between Lewis and King. King explained that to attend Troy, they would have to sue the state of Alabama and the Board of Education and that because Lewis was not old enough to file a suit, he would have to get his parents' permission. Fearful for both their lives and those of their loved ones, Lewis' parents refused.\n\nBy March 1958, Lewis was attending First Baptist Church in Nashville, and participated in workshops on nonviolence organized by Vanderbilt University Divinity School student James Lawson, who represented the Fellowship of Reconciliation (F.O.R.), a pacifist group committed to nonviolence. F.O.R. published a comic book, \"Martin Luther King and the Montgomery Story\", that explained how to implement passive resistance as a tool for desegregation. As the group prepared to conduct a sit-in at a department store lunch counter, the Greensboro Four, inspired by \"The Montgomery Story\", conducted one of their own in Greensboro, North Carolina on February 1, 1960. On February 7, the Nashville group conducted theirs, occupying a lunch counter at a local Woolworth store, refusing to cease amid verbal abuse by whites and the closing of the counter by the establishment. The group repeated this at other stores and remained steadfast even when whites began inflicting physical violence upon them. The group was eventually arrested on February 27, 1960, the first of many for Lewis, but the lunch counters continued to fill with activists, as did the jails. Declining the jail's reduction of their bail from $100 to $5 each, the police eventually released Lewis' group later that night.\n\nThe activists were later convicted of disturbing the peace, and when they refused to pay the fines levied against them, they were given prison sentences, outraging the country and inspiring more sit-ins. Nashville Mayor Ben West ordered their release on March 3 and formed a biracial committee to study segregation in the city, asking the group to temporarily halt the sit-ins while the committee worked, to which Lewis' group agreed. When Vanderbilt University threatened to fire Lawson, dozens of faculty and staff threatened to resign in protest, making national headlines. On March 25, the group, numbering over 100, marched to nine downtown stores. Within local churches, the black community organized a boycott of all downtown stores, and the group resumed the sit-ins, rejecting the committee's suggestion for a \"partial integration\", which they viewed as indistinguishable from partial segregation. On April 19, dynamite was thrown at the house of Alexander Looby, an acquaintance and lawyer of the activists, and in response, thousands of protestors gathered at Tennessee State University to march on City Hall. Confronted by activist Diane Nash, Mayor West stated that he would do all he could to enforce the law without prejudice, and appealed to citizens to end discrimination, but could not force store owners to serve those they did not wish to. The next evening, Dr. King arrived to speak, and on May 10, six downtown stores served food to black customers for the first time in the city's history.\n\nBook Two begins in 1961, when the Freedom Riders began riding interstate buses inside the Deep South. Racials tensions contributed to the Birmingham Church Bombing in September 1963. The bombing marked a turning point in the Civil Rights Movement and contributed to support for passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.\n\nBook Three follows at the end of 1963, when the Civil Rights Movement had the full attention of the country, and as a chairman of the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee (SNCC), Lewis is helps to guide the movement. SNCC continues to force the nation to confront its injustice and racism but the danger grows with more Jim Crow laws with the threats of violence and death. Lewis and an army of activists launch a series of campaigns, including the Freedom Vote and Mississippi Freedom Summer. The movement to give voting rights to all people that resulted in various Selma to Montgomery marches came to a historic showdown with Bloody Sunday in Selma, Alabama.\n\n\"March: Book One\" holds an average 9.4 out of 10 rating at the review aggregator website Comic Book Roundup, based on five reviews.\n\nJim Johnson of Comic Book Resources gave the book four and a half out of five stars, calling it \"an excellent and fascinating historical account\" of Lewis' life and \"an absolutely wonderful story about one man who played a very important role in one of this country's most important social revolutions, and continues to play an important part to this very day\". Johnson further commented, \"Powell's washed-out greytones combine with Congressman Lewis and Aydin's captivating words and story to give the entire account the feel of a compelling, period documentary.\"\n\nNoah Sharma of Weekly Comic Book Review gave \"March Book One\" a grade of A−, calling it \"an artful and important graphic novel\". Sharma praised Lewis as a talented storyteller, called the dialogue \"sharp and cleverly delivered\" and remarked that Powell \"fills his panels with depth and vibrancy\". Sharma concluded, \"The narrative tools employed by \"March\" are simple ones, but they form together to create something moving and complex. Aydin and Powell know when to let their art support the congressman and when to let his experience speak for itself.\"\n\n\"March: Book One\" received an \"Author Honor\" from the American Library Association's 2014 Coretta Scott King Book Awards. \"Book One\" also became the first graphic novel to win a Robert F. Kennedy Book Award, receiving a \"Special Recognition\" bust in 2014.\n\n\"March: Book One\" was selected by first-year reading programs in 2014 at Michigan State University, Georgia State University, and Marquette University.\n\n\"March Book Two\" was ranked #2 on \"The Village Voice\"s 2014 list \"The 10 Most Subversive Comics at New York Comic Con\".\n\n\"March: Book Two\" was awarded the Eisner Award for Best Reality-Based Work in 2016.\n\n\"March: Book Three\" debuted at #1 on the \"New York Times\" bestseller list for graphic books and brought the whole trilogy into the top three spots, which they held for six continuous weeks.\n\nOn November 16, 2016, \"March: Book Three\" won the National Book Award for Young People's Literature. It was the first graphic novel to ever receive a National Book Award. \"March: Book Three\" was awarded the Eisner Award for Best Reality-Based Work in 2017.\n\nOn January 23, 2017, \"March: Book Three\" won the Coretta Scott King (Author) Book Award, the Michael L. Printz Award for excellence in literature written for young adults, the Robert F. Sibert Informational Book Award, and the YALSA Award for Excellence in Nonfiction for Young Adults.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16060215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16060215", "title": "Message to Man", "text": "Message to Man\n\nMessage to Man (, \"Poslaniye k Chelovyeku\") is an international competitive documentary, short and animated film festival held annually in Saint Petersburg, Russia.\n\n\"Message to Man\" originated in the USSR in 1988 as a biennale documentary film festival. Since 1993 it has been held annually. Since 1994 it has included short and animated films. To date, there have been 22 festivals.\n\n\"Message to Man\" is accredited by FIAPF.\n\nThe festival currently takes place in September. The 23rd edition will take place from September 21–28, 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "10895972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10895972", "title": "Mr. T (comics)", "text": "Mr. T (comics)\n\nAmerican actor Mr. T has headlined in a number of comic books both under his own stage name and in conjunction with his role on the TV Series \"The A-Team\".\n\n\"Mr. T and the T-Force\" was released in 1993 by NOW Comics. It was written Pete Stone with art by Neal Adams and then various creative teams following their run.\n\nThe series apparently lasted 14 consecutive issues, not including a 1994 annual and various editions of #1, before closing when NOW Comics went out of business. This figure may be incorrect however, with the eleventh issue possibly being the final issue produced.\n\nMany, if not all, issues of \"Mr. T and the T-Force\" included Mr. T trading cards.\n\nAnother comic version, \"Mr. T\", appeared in 2005 from short-lived British comic publisher APComics. It was pitched to the publisher by writer Chris Bunting who was joined with pencils by Neil Edwards, inks by Randy Emberlin and with colours by Don Mackinnon. Mr. T was also listed as a Creative Supervisor on the series and did a round of interviews as publicity for the series launch.\n\nThe series got a lot of press interest, announcing itself to be one of the biggest licensing deals in British comic's history. Ultimately, it had a very short life, most probably due to the closure of APComics. It featured as a six-page preview of APComics upcoming comics and then two issues were released. Apparently the second issue, released several months after the first, was released out of license by APComics and many copies were ordered to be immediately withdrawn.\n\nRichard Emms, owner of APComics, 'left' for Markosia and with him went a number of titles. However, \"Mr. T \"was not one of those and there were a variety of complaints including of non-payment emerging from creatives working on \"Mr. T\". That appears to have been settled by APComics. In 2006 new cover art from Jim Steranko appeared as a US publisher had temporary permission to use the license for the third and final issue in the comic book series. In February 2008 publisher Mohawk Media released an all-new \"Mr. T\" graphic novel. Entitled \"Mr. T: Limited Advance Edition Graphic Novel\" it was limited to 4,000 copies. The regular worldwide edition of the \"Mr. T\" graphic novel was released in December 2008. Later that same month, Mohawk Media announced a line of merchandise and gift products based on the \"Mr. T\" graphic novel.\n\nMr. T appeared, as B. A. Baracus, in The \"A-Team\" comic adaptation that appeared in \"Look-In\" for throughout the 1980s. An \"A-Team\" strip also ran in \"TV Comic\" sold in UK. Length of run unknown.\n\nFrom to , Marvel Comics released an \"A-Team\" title which ran for 3 issues. Due to the huge popularity of both comics and The \"A-Team\" show at that time, information which lists this as a 3-issue 'mini-series' is probably accurate. The Marvel Comics series was sold individually then released in \"packs\": one pack contained the first 2 issues, the next all 3 issues. Each pack was a sealed transparent bag featuring Marvel's logo and a picture of Spider-Man. Marvel released the series in a trade paperback called \"The A-Team Storybook.\" ().\n\nThe Marvel US comics were also reprinted by Marvel UK in a variety of formats including hardback annual book and \"The A-Team Summer Special 1985\" and The \"A-Team Summer Special #2\" (1986). The final Marvel UK hardback \"A-Team\" annual was released in 1991, several years after the cancellation of The \"A-Team\" TV series, showing its continued popularity in the UK despite this.\n\nIn 2010, IDW Publishing issued several comic books tying in with the \"A-Team\" film, however neither of these feature Mr. T, but rather actor Quinton Jackson, who took over the role of B. A. Baracus for the film.\n\n\nMr. T also appeared through postmodern reference in: \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10358088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10358088", "title": "Najdah ibn 'Amir", "text": "Najdah ibn 'Amir\n\nNajdah ibn 'Amir al-Hanafi () (died 692) established a breakaway Kharijite state in central and eastern Arabia during the Umayyad era before he was killed by one of his own followers in 692.\n\n"}
{"id": "52055950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52055950", "title": "Nepal Magazine", "text": "Nepal Magazine\n\nThe Nepal Magazine is a weekly national magazine published by Kantipur Media Group in Kathmandu, which also publishes \"Kantipur\" and \"The Kathmandu Post\". The magazine focuses on national socio-political matters of Nepal, with satirical pieces on current affairs and trends of the country, along with lighter stories of lifestyle and arts. \"Nepal\" has the country's largest circulation for a weekly news-magazine, according to the official data released by Press Council Nepal in 2016. Prashant Aryal is the Editor-in-Chief.\n\n\"Nepal Magazine\" was established in 2000 as a fortnightly magazine. It has been covering political issues along with photo story, movie review, celebrity gossips and literature.Its two notable annual publication are \"Plus 2 College Ranking\" and \"Person of the year\". \"Nepal\" is generally regarded as leading and influential nepali magazines, along with Himal Khabarpatrika.\n\nThe magazine has been under five editors so far, Vijay Kumar Pandey, Tirtha Koirala, Kishor Nepal, currently Prashant Aryal and currently Sudheer Sharma (3 tenure)(Editor-in- chief).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6455551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6455551", "title": "Northeast blackout of 2003", "text": "Northeast blackout of 2003\n\nThe Northeast blackout of 2003 was a widespread power outage throughout parts of the Northeastern and Midwestern United States and the Canadian province of Ontario on August 14, 2003, just after 4:10 p.m. EDT.\n\nSome power was restored by 11 p.m. Most did not get their power back until two days later. In other areas, it took nearly a week or two for power to be restored. At the time, it was the world's second most widespread blackout in history, after the 1999 Southern Brazil blackout. The outage, which was much more widespread than the Northeast Blackout of 1965, affected an estimated 10 million people in Ontario and 45 million people in eight U.S. states.\n\nThe blackout's primary cause was a software bug in the alarm system at the control room of FirstEnergy Corporation, an Akron, Ohio–based company, causing operators to remain unaware of the need to re-distribute load after overloaded transmission lines drooped into foliage. What should have been a manageable local blackout cascaded into collapse of the entire electric grid.\n\nAccording to the New York Independent System Operator (NYISO) – the ISO responsible for managing the New York state power grid – a 3,500 megawatt power surge (towards Ontario) affected the transmission grid at 4:10:39 p.m. EDT.\n\nFor the next 30 minutes, to 4:40 p.m. EDT, outages were reported in parts of Ohio, New York, Michigan, and New Jersey: Cleveland, Akron, Toledo, New York City, Westchester, Orange and Rockland counties, Baltimore, Rochester, Syracuse, Binghamton, Albany, Detroit, and parts of New Jersey, including the city of Newark.\n\nThis was followed by outages in other areas initially unaffected, including all of New York City, portions of southern New York state, New Jersey, Vermont, Connecticut, and Toronto, as well as most of the province of Ontario. \nEventually, a large, somewhat triangular area bounded by Lansing, Michigan, Sault Ste. Marie, Ontario, the shore of James Bay, Ottawa, New York, and Toledo was left without power.\n\nAccording to the official analysis of the blackout prepared by the US and Canadian governments, more than 508 generating units at 265 power plants shut down during the outage. In the minutes before the event, the NYISO-managed power system was carrying 28,700 MW of load. At the height of the outage, the load had dropped to 5,716 MW, a loss of 80%.\n\nEssential services remained in operation in some of these areas. In others, backup generation systems failed. Telephone networks generally remained operational, but the increased demand triggered by the blackout left many circuits overloaded. Water systems in several cities lost pressure, forcing boil-water advisories to be put into effect. Cellular service was interrupted as mobile networks were overloaded with the increase in volume of calls. Major cellular providers continued to operate on standby generator power. Television and radio stations remained on the air, with the help of backup generators, although some stations were knocked off the air for periods ranging from several hours to the length of the entire blackout.\n\nIt was a hot day (over ) in much of the affected region, and the heat played a role in the initial event that triggered the wider power outage. The high ambient temperature increased energy demand, as people across the region turned on fans and air conditioning. This caused the power lines to sag as higher currents heated the lines.\n\nIn areas where power remained off after nightfall, the Milky Way and orbiting artificial satellites became visible to the naked eye in metropolitan areas where they cannot ordinarily be seen due to the effects of particulate air and light pollution.\n\nMost of the Amtrak Northeast Corridor service was interrupted, as it uses electric locomotives; electrified commuter railways also shut down. Via Rail in Canada was able to continue most of its service. The power outage's effects on international air transport and financial markets were widespread. The reliability of the electrical grid was called into question.\n\nWithin the area affected, about 200,000 people continued to have power – in the Niagara Peninsula of Ontario; the easternmost corner of Ontario (centered on Cornwall); the Buffalo, NY area, excluding southern Erie county, along the shore of Lake Huron via a feeder line to Owen Sound from Bruce Nuclear Generating Station. Three of the four Bruce B units were able to throttle back their output without a complete shutdown, then reconnect to the grid within five hours; the portion of New York state including parts of Albany and north and west of Albany; a small pocket of mid-east Michigan; the Upper Peninsula of Michigan; and small pockets in New Jersey. The unaffected area was protected by transmission circuit devices at the Sir Adam Beck Hydroelectric Generating Stations in Niagara Falls, (coincidentally, the starting point of the Northeast blackout of 1965) at a switching station of the hydroelectric power station in Cornwall, as well as central New York state. Philadelphia and the surrounding mid-Atlantic areas were also completely unaffected because PJM disconnected them. The Saint Clair power plant in East China Township, Michigan, remained online for about 36 hours, and residents were informed that the plant would have to shut down in order to facilitate the reboot of the whole system.\n\nThe load on any power network must be immediately matched by its supply and its ability to transmit that power. Any overload of a power line or generator can cause costly damage, so the affected device is disconnected from the network if an overload is detected.\n\nThe electrical resistance of a power line causes it to produce more heat as the current it carries increases. If this heat is not sufficiently dissipated, the metal conductor in the line will expand and lengthen, so that it sags between supporting structures. If the line sags too low, a flash over to nearby objects (such as trees) may occur, causing a transient increase in current. Automatic protective relays detect the excessively high current and quickly disconnect the line, with the load previously carried by the line transferred to other lines. If the other lines do not have enough spare capacity to accommodate the extra current, their overload protection will react as well, causing a cascading failure.\n\nSystem operators are responsible for ensuring that power supply and loads remain balanced, and for keeping the system within safe operational limits such that no single fault can cause the system to fail. After a failure affecting their system, operators must obtain more power from generators or other regions or \"shed load\" (meaning to intentionally cut power or reduce voltage to a given area) until they can be sure that the worst remaining possible failure anywhere in the system will not cause a system collapse. In an emergency, they are expected to immediately shed load as required to bring the system into balance.\n\nTo assist the operators there are computer systems, with backups, which issue alarms when there are faults in the transmission or generation system. Power flow modeling tools let them analyze the current state of their network, predict whether any parts of it may be overloaded, and predict the worst possible failure remaining, so that they can change the distribution of generation or reconfigure the transmission system to prevent a failure should this situation occur. If the computer systems and their backups fail, the operators are required to monitor the grid manually, instead of relying on computer alerts. If they cannot interpret the current state of the power grid in such an event, they follow a contingency plan, contacting other plant and grid operators by telephone if necessary. If there is a failure, they are also required to notify adjacent areas which may be affected, so those can predict the possible effects on their own systems.\n\nA joint federal task force was formed by the governments of Canada and the U.S. to oversee the investigation and report directly to Ottawa and Washington. The task force was led by then-Canadian Natural Resource Minister Herb Dhaliwal and U.S. Energy Secretary Spencer Abraham.\n\nIn addition to determining the initial cause of the cascading failure, the investigation of the incident also included an examination of the failure of safeguards designed to prevent a repetition of the Northeast blackout of 1965. The North American Electric Reliability Corporation, a joint Canada-U.S. council, is responsible for dealing with these issues.\n\nOn November 19, 2003, Abraham said his department would not seek to punish FirstEnergy Corp for its role in the blackout because current U.S. law does not require electric reliability standards. Abraham stated, \"The absence of enforceable reliability standards creates a situation in which there are limits in terms of federal level punishment.\"\n\nIn February 2004, the U.S.-Canada Power System Outage Task Force released their final report, placing the causes of the blackout into four groups:\n\n\nThe report states that a generating plant in Eastlake, Ohio, a suburb of Cleveland, went offline amid high electrical demand, putting a strain on high-voltage power lines (located in a distant rural setting) which later went out of service when they came in contact with \"overgrown trees\". This trip caused load to transfer to other transmission lines, which were not able to bear the load, tripping their breakers. Once these multiple trips occurred, multiple generators suddenly lost parts of their loads, so they accelerated out of phase with the grid at different rates, and tripped out to prevent damage. The cascading effect that resulted ultimately forced the shutdown of more than 100 power plants.\n\nA software bug known as a race condition existed in General Electric Energy's Unix-based XA/21 energy management system. Once triggered, the bug stalled FirstEnergy's control room alarm system for over an hour. System operators were unaware of the malfunction. The failure deprived them of both audio and visual alerts for important changes in system state.\n\nUnprocessed events queued up after the alarm system failure and the primary server failed within 30 minutes. Then all applications (including the stalled alarm system) were automatically transferred to the backup server, which itself failed at 14:54. The server failures slowed the screen refresh rate of the operators' computer consoles from 1–3 seconds to 59 seconds per screen. The lack of alarms led operators to dismiss a call from American Electric Power about the tripping and reclosure of a 345 kV shared line in northeast Ohio. But by 15:42, after the control room itself lost power, control room operators informed technical support (who were already troubleshooting the issue) of the alarm system problem.\n\nThe following is the blackout's sequence of events on August 14, 2003 (times in EDT):\n\n\nWith the power fluctuations on the grid, power plants automatically went into \"safe mode\" to prevent damage in the case of an overload. This put much of the nuclear power offline until those plants could be slowly taken out of \"safe mode\". In the meantime, all available hydro-electric plants (as well as many coal- and oil-fired plants) were brought online, bringing some electrical power to the areas immediately surrounding the plants by the morning of August 15. Homes and businesses both in the affected area and in nearby areas were requested to limit power usage until the grid was back to full power.\n\nSome areas lost water pressure because pumps lacked power. This loss of pressure caused potential contamination of the water supply. Four million customers of the Detroit water system in eight counties were under a boil-water advisory until August 18, four days after the initial outage. One county, Macomb, ordered all 2,300 restaurants closed until they were decontaminated after the advisory was lifted. Twenty people living on the St. Clair River claim to have been sickened after bathing in the river during the blackout. The accidental release of 140 kg (310 lb) of vinyl chloride from a Sarnia, Ontario chemical plant was not revealed until five days later. Cleveland also lost water pressure and instituted a boil water advisory. Cleveland and New York had sewage spills into waterways, requiring beach closures. Newark, New Jersey, and northern cities had major sewage spills into the Passaic and Hackensack rivers, which flow directly to the Atlantic Ocean. Kingston lost power to sewage pumps, causing raw waste to be dumped into the Cataraqui River at the base of the Rideau Canal.\n\nAmtrak's Northeast Corridor railroad service was stopped north of Philadelphia, and all trains running into and out of New York City were shut down, initially including the Long Island Rail Road and the Metro-North Railroad; both were able to establish a bare-bones \"all-diesel\" service by the next morning. Canada's Via Rail, which serves Toronto and Montreal, had a few service delays before returning to normal the next morning.\n\nPassenger screenings at affected airports ceased. Regional airports were shut down for this reason. In New York, flights were cancelled even after power had been restored to the airports because of difficulties accessing \"electronic-ticket\" information. Air Canada flights remained grounded on the morning of August 15 due to reliable power not having been restored to its Mississauga control center. It expected to resume operations by midday. This problem affected all Air Canada service and canceled the most heavily traveled flights to Halifax and Vancouver. At Chicago's Midway International Airport, Southwest Airlines employees spent 48 hours dealing with the disorder caused by the blackout's sudden incidence.\n\nMany gas stations were unable to pump fuel due to lack of electricity. In North Bay, Ontario, for instance, a long line of transport trucks was held up, unable to go further west to Manitoba without refueling. In some cities, traffic problems were compounded by motorists who simply drove until their cars ran out of gas on the highway. Gas stations operating in pockets of Burlington, Ontario, that had power were reported to be charging prices up to $3.78 per US gallon (99.9 cents/Litre) when the going rate prior to the blackout was lower than $2.65/gallon (70¢/L). Customers still lined up for hours to pay prices many people considered price gouging. Station operators claimed that they had a limited supply of gasoline and did not know when their tanks would be refilled, prompting the drastic price increases.\n\nMany oil refineries on the East Coast of the United States shut down as a result of the blackout, and were slow to resume gasoline production. As a result, gasoline prices were expected to rise approximately 10 cents/gallon (3¢/L) in the United States. In Canada, gasoline rationing was also considered by the authorities.\n\nCellular communication devices were disrupted. This was mainly due to the loss of backup power at the cellular sites where generators ran out of fuel. Where cell sites remained up, some cell phones still went out of service as their batteries ran out of charge without a power source to recharge from. Wired telephone lines continued to work, although some systems were overwhelmed by the volume of traffic, and millions of home users had only cordless telephones depending on house current. Most New York and many Ontario radio stations were momentarily knocked off the air before returning with backup power.\n\nCable television systems were disabled, and in areas that had power restored (and had power to their television sets), cable subscribers could not receive information until power was restored to the cable provider. Those who relied on the Internet were similarly disconnected from their news source for the duration of the blackout, with the exception of dial-up access from laptop computers, which were widely reported to work until the batteries ran out of charge. Information was available by over-the-air TV and radio reception for those who were equipped to receive TV and/or audio in that way.\n\nThe blackout affected communications well outside the immediate area of power outage. The New Jersey-based internet operations of Advance Publications were among those knocked out by the blackout. As a result, the internet editions of Advance newspapers as far removed from the blackout area as \"The Birmingham News\", the New Orleans \"Times-Picayune\", and \"The Oregonian\" were offline for days.\n\nAmateur radio operators passed emergency communications during the blackout.\n\nLarge numbers of factories were closed in the affected area, and others outside the area were forced to close or slow work because of supply problems and the need to conserve energy while the grid was being stabilized. At one point a 7-hour wait developed for trucks crossing the Ambassador Bridge between Detroit and Windsor due to the lack of electronic border check systems. Freeway congestion in affected areas affected the \"just in time\" (JIT) supply system. Some industries (including the auto industry) did not return to full production until August 22.\n\nAlmost the entire state of New York lost power. Exceptions included Freeport and Rockville Centre on Long Island, which relied on localized power plants; the Capital District, where power dipped briefly (a few areas, such as portions of Latham, New York, didn't lose power at all); the southernmost areas of the Southern Tier of Upstate New York, mostly near Waverly, which relied on power from Pennsylvania; the city of Plattsburgh; Starrett City, Brooklyn, which has auxiliary power; most of the city of Buffalo; and pockets of Amherst in the Buffalo area, running off university power. There were also some small pockets of power in the suburbs of Rochester, as a few smaller power companies operating in those areas were able to keep running. The North Shore Towers complex was unaffected by the blackout due to their on-site self-generating power plant. Power was also available at the Kodak Park facility and its surrounding neighborhood in the city. Power was lost at the Oak Hill Country Club in nearby Pittsford, where the 2003 PGA Championship was being played, which caused minor interruptions to the tournament. Also, that evening's Major League Baseball game between the New York Mets and the San Francisco Giants at Shea Stadium was postponed. In New York, all prisons were blacked out and switched to generator power. The two Indian Point nuclear reactors on the Hudson River near Peekskill, the two reactors at Nine Mile Point nuclear plant, the single reactor at Ginna nuclear plant near Rochester, and the FitzPatrick reactor near Oswego all shut down. With three other nuclear plants shut down in Ohio, Michigan, and New Jersey, a total of nine reactors were affected. The governor of New York, George Pataki, declared a state of emergency.\n\nVerizon's emergency generators failed several times, leaving the emergency services number 9-1-1 out of service for several periods of about a quarter-hour each. New York City's 311 information hotline received over 175,000 calls from concerned residents during the weekend. Amateur radio operators attached to New York City ARES provided a backup communications link to emergency shelters and hospitals. Amateur radio repeaters were supplied with emergency power via generators and batteries and remained functional.\n\nMajor U.S. networks (CBS, NBC, ABC and Fox) and some cable television channels (HBO, MTV and Nickelodeon), centered in New York City, were unable to broadcast normally, so backup stations and flagship transmitters in Dallas were used for prime-time TV. ABC ran their news broadcasts from Washington, D.C. instead.\n\nManhattan, including Wall Street and the headquarters of the United Nations, was completely shut down, as were all area airports (with the exception of Newburgh's Stewart International Airport, which had once been a military airbase and had its own generators), and all New York-area rail transportation including the subway, the PATH lines between Manhattan and New Jersey, New Jersey Transit's Northeast Corridor and North Jersey Coast lines between New York Penn Station and Newark Penn Station, the Morris & Essex Lines between New York Penn Station and Newark Broad Street, the Metro-North Railroad, and the Long Island Rail Road. Hundreds of people were trapped in elevators; by late evening the New York City Fire Department had reportedly confirmed that all stalled elevators in approximately 800 Manhattan high-rise office and apartment buildings had been cleared. More than 600 subway and commuter rail cars were trapped between stations; New York's Metropolitan Transportation Authority and the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey (which operates the PATH lines) reported that all passengers were evacuated without serious injury. PATH was first to resume subway service on Sixth Avenue (albeit on 15-minute headways) by 6 p.m. that evening.\n\nWithout traffic lights, gridlock was reported as people in Lower and Midtown Manhattan fled their offices on foot; for hours into the evening the streets, highways, bridges and tunnels were jammed with traffic and pedestrians leaving Manhattan, though many civilians helped direct traffic. The bus journey from Manhattan to Washington, D.C. (which normally takes four hours) took more than eight hours, with reports that it took four hours just to get out of Manhattan. Mayor Michael Bloomberg advised residents to open their windows, drink plenty of liquids to avoid heat stroke in the heat, and not to forget their pets. Temperatures were with high humidity, as New York had just experienced a record-breaking rain spell that had started at the end of July. With cell phone operation mostly stalled by circuit overloads, New Yorkers were lining up 10 deep or more at pay phones as ordinary telephone service remained largely unaffected. Many people found themselves with no phone service at home.\n\nWhile some commuters were able to find alternate sleeping arrangements, many were left stranded in New York and slept in parks and on the steps of public buildings. While practically all businesses and retail establishments closed down, many bars and pubs reported a brisk business as many New Yorkers took the opportunity to spend the evening \"enjoying\" the blackout. Tourists' hotel rooms were blacked out except the hallways and most of the restaurants in lobbies gave out free food to guests. Since most perishable items were going to spoil anyway, many restaurants and citizens simply prepared what they could and served it to anyone who wanted it, leading to vast block parties in many New York City neighborhoods. Any ice cream in frozen storage also had to be quickly served to any and all passers by. The Indigo Girls were scheduled to perform that evening at Central Park SummerStage, and the band took the stage as planned to play one of the only shows in the affected area, using generators that had been filled with fuel that morning. Their performance was not a full-length concert, as they needed to end early to allow all attendees to exit Central Park before dark. The venue also had bathrooms, and vendors cooking food on propane grills.\n\nForty thousand police officers and the entire fire department were called in to maintain order. At least two fatalities were linked to the use of flames to provide light, and many nonfatal fires also resulted from the use of candles. New York City's Office of Emergency Management activated its Emergency Operations Center, from which more than 70 agencies coordinated response efforts, which included delivery of portable light towers to unlit intersections, generators and diesel fuel to hospitals, and a portable steam generator necessary to power air conditioning units at the American Stock Exchange.\n\nAffected areas included most of Hudson, Morris, Essex, Union, Passaic, and Bergen counties, including the major cities of Paterson and Newark, although some sections of Newark and East Orange still had power; also, small sections of certain towns in Essex, Hudson, and Union counties had power. Power was returned first to the urban areas because of concerns of safety and unrest. Counties as far south as Cumberland were affected, where power was restored within an hour. Some towns in Bergen County only momentarily lost power, and had wild oscillations in power line voltage, ranging from about 90V to 135V every few minutes for an hour.\n\nThe day following the blackout, August 15, the New Jersey Turnpike stopped collecting tolls until 9:00 a.m.\n\nThe Baltimore-Washington area was not affected other than transportation scheduling.\n\nParts of New London, Hartford, New Haven, Litchfield, and Fairfield counties, from Greenwich to Danbury and Bridgeport, were affected, although most of the state had power all evening, aside from a few momentary interruptions that caused computers to reboot. Metro-North trains stopped and remained on the tracks for hours, until they could be towed to the nearest station. Generally, most of the state east of Interstate 91, and some places west of I-91, had power during the duration of the blackout, with some of New Haven's eastern suburbs being seen as the easternmost extreme of the effects of the blackout.\n\nA local controversy ensued in the days after the blackout, when the federal government ordered power companies to energize the HVDC Cross Sound Cable between New Haven and Long Island. This cable had been installed, but not activated due to environment and fishery concerns. The Attorney General of Connecticut (and future U.S. Senator), Richard Blumenthal, and the Governor of New York, George Pataki, traded insults over the cable. Connecticut politicians expressed their outrage that the cable was being turned on, since it did not help anyone in Connecticut, as the cable would transport power from Connecticut to Long Island.\n\nA small area of western Massachusetts was affected. In Worcester the event was of sufficient magnitude to reboot some computers, while in Springfield the effect of the event was enough to cause the automatic startup of commercial and industrial backup generation facilities. Some areas were subjected to lower-than-normal voltage (as low as 100 volts AC) and brownouts for periods of up to 24 hours. The Boston area was spared from the blackout.\n\nAbout 2.3 million households and businesses were affected, including almost all of Metro Detroit, as well as Lansing, Ann Arbor, and surrounding communities in southeast Michigan. The blackout affected three Michigan utilities: Detroit Edison (whose entire system went down), Lansing Board of Water & Light, and a small portion of Consumers Energy's system in the southeastern corner of the state. Word quickly spread to the surrounding areas without power and many flocked to surrounding areas that still had power, resulting in crowded stores, packed restaurants, booked hotels, and long queues for the gas stations in these towns. Locales closest to the affected areas in the northern Detroit suburbs that did not lose power included the areas of Oxford and Holly, communities along M-24 and M-15, and into the Lapeer and Flint/Tri-Cities area. The city limits of Brighton and Howell were unaffected as well, as they received electricity from Consumers Energy via the Genoa-Latson 138KV line which interconnects Detroit Edison and Consumers Energy. Television and radio stations were temporarily knocked off the air and water supplies were disrupted in Detroit due to the failure of electric pumps. Because of the loss of water pressure all water was required to be boiled before use until August 18. Several schools which had planned to begin the school year August 18 were closed until clean water was available.\n\nA Marathon Oil refinery in Melvindale, near Detroit, suffered a small explosion from gas buildup, necessitating an evacuation within around the plant and the closure of Interstate 75. Officials feared the release of toxic gases. Heavy rains on August 17 coupled with the lack of sewage pumps closed other expressways and prompted urban flood warnings. Untreated sewage flowed into local rivers in Lansing and Metropolitan Detroit as contingency solutions at some sewage treatment plants failed. In the midst of a summer heat wave, Michiganders were deprived of air conditioning. Several people, mostly elderly individuals, had to be treated for symptoms of heat stroke. In the Detroit area, local television stations' news helicopters were told by each station's management to \"stay above the cars' headlights\" at night, and to not venture into Downtown Detroit (due to the hazard of flying into an unlit skyscraper). During the days immediately after the blackout, many stations were back on the air, with limited resources. (In one case, WXYZ-TV's news anchor was wearing a T-shirt and shorts, as opposed to his normal news suit, and apologized to viewers for the \"rather warm conditions\" in the station, as they only had one air conditioner and a couple of fans working.) The Downriver communities had to contend with basements flooded with sewage-laden water on the weekend immediately after the blackout, with water and sewage pumps off from a lack of power, much to the general annoyance of residents in the areas. News crews of the areas broadcast notices during their coverages of the blackouts to the Downriver residents, explaining why the pumps had shorted out, as well as to limit water usage. (\"Most places have water pressure, some have low pressure...some have none, and some even have \"negative pressure\". That means in the next few hours, people in the downriver communities should expect flooded basements from, so move all your valuables high up and out of the basements,\" as WDIV-TV warned.) West Michigan, including the communities of Grand Rapids, Muskegon, and Holland were mostly unaffected, although a large portion was within \"seconds\" of joining the blackout according to local U.S. Representative Fred Upton. Although right across the border from Sault Ste. Marie, Ontario, Sault Ste. Marie, Michigan was unaffected by the outage, as the two cities are not electrically connected.\n\nOver 540,000 homes and businesses were without power. In Cleveland, water service stopped because the city is supplied by electric pumps and backup electricity was available only on a very limited basis and water had to be boiled for several days afterwards. Portions of the cities of Akron, Mansfield, Massillon, Marion, and Ashland were without power. Cleveland declared a curfew on all persons under the age of 18. At Cedar Point amusement park in Sandusky, park employees had to help guests walk down the steps of the Magnum XL-200 roller coaster, which had stopped on the lift hill due to the blackout. Several other guests had to be helped off rides as a result of the blackout. In Toledo, the Mud Hens baseball team postponed the game scheduled for that night. Some parts of the city were unaffected by the blackout, notably the suburb of Sylvania. Other surrounding cities like Bowling Green only experienced a brief outage.\n\nThe area affected by the blackout included all Southern Ontario, except Pelham, Niagara Falls and Fort Erie, from Windsor to Ottawa and all the way to the Quebec border, except for the Cornwall area. Also affected was Northern Ontario, as far north as Attawapiskat and Moosonee on James Bay and west to Marathon on the Lake Superior shoreline. Communities affected in northern Ontario included Timmins, Cochrane, Sudbury, Kirkland Lake, North Bay, Wawa, and Sault Ste. Marie. Most of Northwestern Ontario (including Thunder Bay) was not affected.\n\nTraffic lights, which had no backup power, were all knocked out. All intersections were to be considered an all-way stop. Coupled with the beginning of the evening rush hour, this caused traffic problems. In many major and minor intersections in both large cities, such as Ottawa and Toronto, ordinary citizens began directing traffic until police or others relieved them. Since there were not enough police officers to direct traffic at every intersection during the afternoon rush hour, passing police officers distributed fluorescent jackets to people who were directing traffic. Drivers and pedestrians generally followed the instructions from them even though they were not police officers.\n\nIn Ottawa, the federal government was shut down. The Parliamentary Precinct, and Parliament Hill were evacuated.\n\nIn Toronto, the Toronto subway and RT and the Toronto streetcar system, were shut down. Many passengers had to be evacuated from subway trains by walking through the tunnels. Major Toronto hospitals reported that they had switched to generators and did not experience problems. The 9-1-1 system was operational. The streetcars remained suspended on August 18 and 19, resuming after assurances they would be exempt from any potential rotating blackouts. Toronto officials asked residents to curtail unnecessary use of water, as pumps were not working and there was only a 24-hour supply. Entertainment events were canceled for several days. English band Radiohead rescheduled a planned August 16 concert in Toronto until the following October 15 due to the power outage. The opening of the Canadian National Exhibition, scheduled for August 15, was postponed to August 19. The roof of the Skydome in Toronto remained open in an effort to conserve power until August 21, when a thunderstorm struck.\n\nLarge disruptions of truck traffic in northeastern Ontario were reported due to the unavailability of fuel, including the backlog near North Bay. The tunnel and bridge between Windsor and Detroit were also closed, with the bridge's pillars illuminated by emergency floodlights, as to not pose a shipping and airplane hazard.\n\nAbout 140 miners were marooned underground in the Falconbridge mine in Sudbury when the power went out. Mine officials said they were safe and could be evacuated if necessary, but were not, due to the risks of doing so with no power. They were safely evacuated by the morning. In Sarnia, a refinery scrubber lost power and released above-normal levels of pollution; residents were advised to close their windows.\n\nOn the evening of August 14, Ontario premier Ernie Eves declared a state of emergency, instructing nonessential personnel not to go to work tomorrow and that rolling blackouts could occur for weeks. Residents were asked not to use televisions, washing machines, or air conditioners if possible, and warned that some restored power might go off again. Although the full state of emergency was lifted the next day, residents were warned that the normal amount of power would not be available for days, and were still asked to reduce power consumption. \n\nFor two days of this recovery period, diversion of water from the Niagara River for hydroelectric generation was increased to the maximum level, normally used only at night and in winter in order to maintain the scenic appearance of Niagara Falls. The resultant drop in the river level below the falls meant that the Maid of the Mist tour boats could not dock safely, and their operation had to be suspended.\n\nThe Petro-Canada refinery in Oakville had to perform an emergency shutdown due to the lack of power. The plant's flare system produced large flames during the shutdown, leading to erroneous reports in the media that there had been a fire in the plant. The Petro Canada lubricants plant in Mississauga experienced a fire one week later while restarting normal operations.\n\nIn New York, about 3,000 fire calls were reported, many from people using candles. Emergency services responded to 80,000 calls for help, more than double the average.\n\nFrom 4 p.m. of August 14 to midnight of August 15, there were 60 all-hands or greater alarm fires, caused mostly by candles. The FDNY answered over 7,500 calls which resulted in the transmission of over 4,000 alarms.\n\nThe blackout contributed to almost 100 deaths.\n\nThe blackout prompted the federal government of the United States to include reliability provisions in the Energy Policy Act of 2005. The standards of the North American Electric Reliability Corporation became mandatory for U.S. electricity providers.\n\nIn the United States, the Bush administration had emphasized the need for changes to the U.S. national energy policy, critical infrastructure protection, and homeland security. During the blackout, most systems that would detect unauthorized border crossings, port landings, or detect unauthorized access to many vulnerable sites failed. There was considerable fear that future blackouts would be exploited for terrorism. In addition, the failure highlighted the ease with which the power grid could be taken down.\n\nThe Ontario government fell in a provincial election held in October 2003; power had long been a major issue. The government may have been hurt by the success of Quebec and Manitoba, which were not affected whereas Ontario was shut down. The extra publicity given to Ontario's need to import electricity from the United States, mostly due to a decision of the government not to expand the province's power generating capabilities, may also have adversely affected the Conservative government. Premier Ernie Eves's handling of the crisis was also criticized; he was not heard from until long after Mayor Bloomberg and Governor Pataki had spoken out. Due to the regular announcements he gave in the days following the blackout, Eves enjoyed a moderate increase in the polls that his party took as a sign of an opportunity to call an election they could win, but they lost instead.\n\nBy evening of August 14, power had been restored to:\n\n\nCon Edison retracted its claim that New York City would have power by 1 a.m. That night some areas of Manhattan regained power at approximately 5 a.m. (August 15), the New York City borough of Staten Island regained power around 3 a.m. on August 15, and Niagara Mohawk predicted that the Niagara Falls area would have to wait until 8 a.m. In the New York City borough of Brooklyn power was not fully restored until around sunset on August 15.\n\nBy early evening of August 15, two airports, Cleveland Hopkins International Airport and Toronto Pearson International Airport, were back in service.\n\nHalf of the affected part of Ontario had power by the morning of August 15, though even in areas where it had come back online, some services were still disrupted or running at lower levels. The last areas to regain power were usually suffering from trouble at local electrical substations that was not directly related to the blackout itself.\n\nBy August 16, power was fully restored in New York and Toronto. Toronto's subway and streetcars remained out of service until August 18 to prevent the possibility of equipment being stuck in awkward locations if the power was interrupted again. Power had been mostly restored in Ottawa, though authorities warned of possible additional disruptions and advised conservation as power continued to be restored to other areas. Ontarians were asked to reduce their electricity use by 50% until all generating stations could be brought back on line. Four remained out of service on the 19th. Illuminated billboards were largely dormant for the week following the blackout, and many stores had only a portion of their lights on.\n\nPreparations against the possible disruptions threatened by the Year 2000 problem have been credited for the installation of new electrical equipment and systems which allowed for a relatively rapid restoration of power in some areas.\n\nIn the United States and Canada, the regional blackout dominated news broadcasts and news headlines beginning August 15. U.S. and Canadian television networks pre-empted normal programming in favor of full-time, advertising-free coverage of the unfolding story. Once terrorism had been conclusively ruled out as a cause, many stations switched back to normal programming following an 8:30 p.m. EDT address by President George W. Bush. National news stations, such as the CBC and CNN, continued to cover the story by inviting politicians and electrical experts to discuss the situation and suggest ways to prevent blackouts. Internationally, coverage of the story focused on the development of the situation in the New York City metropolitan area.\n\nDuring the first two hours of the event, various officials offered speculative explanations as to its root cause:\n\nIn Ontario, some cities took part in power conservation challenges or events to remind citizens of the blackout, the most well-known event being the Voluntary Blackout Day hosted by the Ontario Power Authority. During these events, citizens were encouraged to maximize their energy conservation activities. Smaller cities such as London, Guelph, Woodstock and Waterloo took part in the challenges annually. The final Voluntary Blackout Day was held on August 14, 2010.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8707043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8707043", "title": "Nushawn Williams", "text": "Nushawn Williams\n\nNushawn Williams (born November 1, 1976), also known as Shyteek Johnson, is an American convicted sex offender who admitted in 1997 to having unprotected sex with numerous girls and women after having been told that he was HIV positive. New York state and local public health officials stated that Williams had sex with up to 47 women in Chautauqua County and at least 28 more in New York City. Williams, who has boasted openly in the media about his sexual promiscuity, said in a news interview that his actual number of sexual partners was up to 300.\n\nWilliams, a native of Brooklyn, led a life of crime since his childhood. The son of a drug-addicted mother, Williams dealt drugs and robbed from the elderly. Prior to his HIV-related conviction, he had three previous convictions for various street crimes. He used several aliases, including the name Shyteek Johnson, under which he was jailed for a drug offense before he faced the HIV transmission charges. \n\nNumerous reports indicate that Williams was a crack dealer who bragged of his gang-related activities and had a history of violence against women, including many of the women he infected. Williams' braggadocio and violence belied the ease with which he attracted women of all races and socioeconomic classes, though most of his victims were those with socioeconomic or emotional problems. News reports make numerous mentions of his charming interpersonal style with women. Women quoted in news stories often pointed to Williams' ability to make them feel special and loved, even while exercising violent control over their actions. In the case of his youngest victim, who was 13, Williams reportedly pursued a relationship for several months.\n\nWilliams stated that he believed health officials had lied to him when they informed him of his HIV status. He was the primary cause of an HIV micro-epidemic in Chautauqua County. He infected at least 14 women in Chautauqua County with HIV, including numerous teenagers. In 1999, he pleaded guilty to two counts of statutory rape (two of his victims were underage) and one count of reckless endangerment in the first degree for having unprotected sex with a woman who did not know his HIV status. He received a four-to-12-year sentence. Two of Williams' children in Chautauqua County were born with HIV, raising the number of known cases linked to Williams to 16. An additional 10 of Williams's sexual partners in New York City have been found to be HIV-positive, though it is unclear if Williams is the source of these infections.\n\nHis case received widespread media attention and ignited a debate over whether knowingly spreading HIV could be viewed as a crime as well as debates over the promiscuous sexuality of U.S. culture and the role of sex education in American high schools. Many stated that the maximum sentence Williams could receive was unduly light, leading then-New York City mayor Rudy Giuliani to call for Williams to be tried for \"attempted murder, or worse.\"\n\nThe case also raised questions as to whether the state should continue to respect the anonymity of those who test positive for HIV. Prior to the Williams case, health officials believed that publicizing the names of HIV-positive individuals would result in a reduction in HIV testing and subject HIV-positive individuals, particularly members of the gay community, to increased social stigma. As a result of the Williams case, New York passed a law that mandated doctors and laboratories to report the names of individuals who test positive for HIV. Reporting of partners to physicians is voluntary, but doctors are mandated to report that the names of any known partners to the NYS Department of Health. Partners may be notified without the permission of the patient, but must be informed that their partners will be notified.\n\nIn April 2010, New York attorney general Andrew Cuomo moved to block Williams' release from prison after 12 years and place him under civil confinement under a statute aimed at predatory sex offenders. A judge ordered him remanded to custody pending an outcome of a civil proceeding.\n\nBy 2010, he had adopted the name Shyteek Johnson again.\n\n"}
{"id": "2375425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2375425", "title": "Pacific Western Airlines Flight 501", "text": "Pacific Western Airlines Flight 501\n\nPacific Western Airlines Flight 501 was a regularly scheduled flight from Calgary to Edmonton, Alberta, Canada. The aircraft caught fire during takeoff on March 22, 1984. All 119 passengers and crew members survived, but five people suffered serious injuries while 22 others suffered minor injuries.\n\nThe Boeing 737, registered C-GQPW, taxied from the gate at Calgary International Airport at 7:35 AM and proceeded to take off on runway 34, carrying five crew members and 114 passengers. At 7:42 AM, a loud popping sound was heard 20 seconds into the takeoff run. The aircraft began to vibrate and veer to the left, and a fire broke out in the rear of the aircraft. The pilot, Stan Fleming, managed to abort the take-off.\n\nAn emergency evacuation was ordered as the fire spread throughout the aircraft. Five people were seriously injured and 22 suffered minor injuries, but no one was killed. The aircraft was destroyed by the fire.\n\nThe Canadian Aviation Safety Board (CASB) determined that an uncontained failure of the left engine thirteenth stage compressor disc had occurred. Debris from the engine punctured a fuel cell, resulting in the fire. The disc failure was the result of fatigue cracking. The fire was attributed to a faulty compressor disc that blew apart, rupturing the fuel tanks. This incident was similar to the cause of the British Airtours Flight 28M disaster that claimed 55 lives in 1985.\n\n"}
{"id": "1412059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1412059", "title": "Plough Monday", "text": "Plough Monday\n\nPlough Monday is the traditional start of the English agricultural year. While local practices may vary, Plough Monday is generally the first Monday after Twelfth Day (Epiphany), 6 January. References to Plough Monday date back to the late 15th century. The day before Plough Monday is sometimes referred to as Plough Sunday.\n\nThe day traditionally saw the resumption of work after the Christmas period in some areas, particularly in northern England and East England. The customs observed on Plough Monday varied by region, but a common feature to a lesser or greater extent was for a plough to be hauled from house to house in a procession, collecting money. They were often accompanied by musicians, an old woman or a boy dressed as an old woman, called the \"Bessy,\" and a man in the role of the \"fool.\" 'Plough Pudding' is a boiled suet pudding, containing meat and onions. It is from Norfolk and is eaten on Plough Monday.\n\nWilliam Hone made use of \"Observations on the Popular Antiquities of Great Britain: Including the Whole of Mr. Bourne's Antiquitates Vulgares\" (1777) by the antiquary John Brand. Brand's work (with additions by Henry Ellis) mentions a northern English Plough Monday custom also observed in the beginning of Lent. Evidently the Plough dance depicted by Phiz in his illustrations for Harrison Ainsworth's 1858 novel \"Mervyn Clitheroe\", and Ainsworth's description, is based on this or a similar account:\nIn the Isles of Scilly, locals would cross-dress and then visit their neighbours to joke about local occurrences. There would be guise dancing (folk-etymologically rendered as \"goose dancing\" by either the authors or those whom they observed) and considerable drinking and revelry. \n\nPlough Monday customs declined in the 19th century but were revived in some towns in the 20th. They are now mainly associated with Molly dancing and a good example can be seen each year at Maldon in Essex.\n\nIn certain regions of Belgium, the Monday after the Epiphany is called \"Verloren Maandag\" (literally \"lost Monday\", indicating a day with no work and hence no pay) with typical food associated.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6767087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6767087", "title": "Pregnancy and Infant Loss Remembrance Day", "text": "Pregnancy and Infant Loss Remembrance Day\n\nPregnancy and Infant Loss Remembrance Day is a day of remembrance for pregnancy loss and infant death, which includes, however is not limited to, miscarriage, stillbirth, SIDS, and the death of a newborn.\n\nPregnancy and Infant Loss Remembrance Day is observed on October 15 of each year, in: Canada, United States, United Kingdom, Australia, Australian States of Western Australia, New South Wales, New Zealand, Italy, Ireland, Denmark, France, Norway, Kenya, Latin America, Central America, South America, Russia, Germany, South Africa, Japan, China and Kyrgyzstan; more countries join in observation each year, officially or otherwise. The day is observed with remembrance ceremonies and candle-lighting vigils, concluding with the Lights of Love International Wave of Light, a worldwide lighting of candles and campaign illuminations, that circumnavigate the globe beginning at 7:00 p.m., in each respective timezone.\nThe official Awareness Colors of the cause are light pink and baby blue and are synonymous with the campaigns awareness ribbon.\n\n4.1 million deaths of infants less than one year old were reported in 2017. An estimated 2.6 million stillbirths happen and between 17 and 22 percent of pregnancies result in miscarriage annually. Pregnancy and Infant loss Remembrance Day serves to promote greater Awareness, Remembrance and Support of the estimated 1 in 4 individuals and families whose lives are irrevocably altered by the death of their children, during pregnancy, at birth and in infancy. The effects of these losses are variable for each individual and family unit who experiences baby loss bereavement; common effects include, however are not limited to: depression, anxiety, changes in relationships, development of unhealthy coping mechanisms, and Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD). These effects, amongst others, are often underestimated and overlooked by health care professionals, friends, and even family members, especially when concerning pregnancy loss related bereavement and subsequent grief. The Founder and International Ambassador of the PAiL Awareness Campaign & Initiatives, Terra-Lynn Coggan, among others, believe that formalized observation of Pregnancy and Infant Loss Awareness Month, and Pregnancy and Infant Loss Remembrance Day will increase public awareness and promote greater research and understanding to aide in the creation and establishment of programs, resources and services; that support and provide assistance to survivors of baby loss and their families, and enable them to overcome their trauma and integrate their bereavement into their life in a healthy, helpful, healing manner.\n\nOn October 25, 1988, American President Ronald Reagan proclaimed the month of October 1988, Pregnancy and Infant Loss Awareness Month.\n\nOctober 15 Pregnancy and Infant Loss Remembrance Day Campaign began in 2002 as an American movement started by Robyn Bear, Lisa Brown, and Tammy Novak. Together, they petitioned the federal government, as well as the governors of each of the 50 states, in conjunction with the first observation of Pregnancy and Infant Loss Remembrance Day in October 15, 2002, 20 states signed proclamations recognizing the date as such. As a result of the American campaign effort, Concurrent Resolution 222, Supporting the goals and ideals of National Pregnancy and Infant Loss Remembrance Day was passed in the House of Representatives on September 28, 2006.\n\nAs of 2016, all 50 American states have yearly proclamations, with Arkansas, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Missouri, New York, Rhode Island, and South Dakota adopting permanent proclamations.\n\nPAiL Awareness Campaign, Founder & International Ambassador, Terra-Lynn Coggan, founder of Pregnancy and Infant Loss Remembrance Day Canada, initiated her Pregnancy and Infant Loss Awareness & Remembrance Campaign in September 2003, following the stillbirth of her nephew Riley Joseph who she was to adopt and began lobbying the provincial government for formalized observation of Pregnancy and Infant Loss Awareness and Remembrance. In September of 2004, Ms. Coggan, subsequent to solicitation by American Pregnancy and Infant Remembrance Day Campaign director, joined the American movement and acquired the role as the Canadian Director for October 15 Pregnancy and Infant Loss Remembrance Day. Succeeding New Brunswick's official recognition of October 15, Pregnancy and Infant Loss Remembrance Day, October 12, 2005, Coggan, citing irreconcilable difference, resigned as the Canadian Director for the American Pregnancy and Infant Loss Remembrance Day Campaign and independently launched the PAiL Awareness Campaign & Initiatives.\n\nFollowing New Brunswick’s Declaration in observation of Pregnancy and Infant Loss Remembrance Day others have followed Mrs Coggan's lead and introduced similar legislation at the municipal, state, provincial and national level of government in acknowledgement and recognition of October 15.\n\nInternational Pregnancy and Infant Loss Remembrance Day is not officially legislated or observed. However, despite the lack of formality, individuals, families and organizations from across the world and around the globe, come together each year on October 15 in observation of the day and in promotion of greater public awareness, in remembrance of the babies who die too soon and support for bereaved baby loss families. Through the legislative campaigns and initiatives of individuals and organizations worldwide, more countries are joining the effort to officially observe October 15, Pregnancy and Infant Loss Remembrance Day.\n\nFounded in 2003 and officially established in 2004, Lights of Love International Wave of Light is a Bear Care Campaign initiative and the official Wave of Light of Pregnancy and Infant Loss Awareness Month and Pregnancy and Infant Loss Remembrance Day, respectively.\nThe International Wave of Light invites baby loss families, friends, loved ones and supporting organizations from around the world to join in honor and remembrance of loved and longed for babies on October 15 at 7:00 pm in all time zones.\n\nLighting begins at the International Date Line, in the first time zone, remaining lit a period of one hour, with the next time zone lighting respectively, moving through each time zone as the Wave of Light circumnavigates the globe. The result is a continuous chain of light encompassing and spanning across the world and around the globe for a 24-hour period, illuminating the night in love and light in honor and remembrance of our children.\n\nCandles, buildings, landmarks, monuments and venues are lit individually as well as in groups; with individuals participating in the lighting of candles at in homes and in the community. Wherever in the world you are, you will be joining families, friends, loved ones and supporters from across the world and around the globe for the International Wave of Light™ in memory of all children who pass away in pregnancy, at birth and in infancy.\n\nThere are also Remembrance Walks organized around the world. These events have music, speakers and activities, centering around babies who have been lost, during pregnancy or shortly after.\n\n\"PAiL Canada\" is the official legislative campaign lobbying for formal observation of \"October, Pregnancy and Infant Loss Awareness Month\" and \"October 15, Pregnancy and Infant Loss Remembrance Day\" across Canada. In October of 2005 following former New Brunswick Minister of Health and Wellness, Hon. Elvy Robichaud's declaration, formally recognizing October 15, Pregnancy and Infant Loss Remembrance Day across the province, founder and international ambassador, Terra-Lynn Coggan, who initiated and commenced the \"Canadian Campaigns\" in 2003, subsequent to her family’s loss; motivated by the stillbirth of her nephew Riley Joseph, who she was to adopt, began her lobby of the Canadian Federal Government for formalized National observation of both, Pregnancy and Infant Loss Awareness Month and Pregnancy and Infant Loss Remembrance Day, respectively.\n\nNew Brunswick, Canada is the first province or state and country in the world to officially observe \"October 15 Pregnancy and Infant Loss Remembrance Day\", with declaration in both official languages, English and French, in acknowledgement and observation thereof, issued by the New Brunswick Department of Health and Wellness, October 12, 2005.\n\nThrough the lobby effort of Terra-Lynn Coggan, a Saint John resident with the assistance of former Saint John-Champlain MLA Roly MacIntyre, New Brunswick Minister of Health and Wellness, Hon. Elvy Robichaud declared October 15, \"Pregnancy and Infant Loss Remembrance Day\" across the province, October 12, 2005, citing \"Miscarriage and infant death are a source of grief, often silent, for mothers, fathers, siblings and grandparents.\"\n\nHe called on provincial residents to help promote \"support, education and awareness for grieving parents who have lost children during pregnancy or shortly after birth.\n\nBill 226 officially declared October 15 as Pregnancy and Infant Loss Awareness Day in Manitoba in 2008.\n\nBill 38 in Nova Scotia in 2017 observers October 15, Pregnancy and Infant Loss Awareness Day\n\nBill 141 An Act to require research to be undertaken and programs to be developed for pregnancy loss and infant death and to proclaim October 15 as Pregnancy and Infant Loss Awareness Day across Ontario received Royal Assent 2015\n\nAs a result of the American campaign effort, Concurrent Resolution 222, supporting the goals and ideals of National Pregnancy and Infant Loss Remembrance Day, was passed in the House of Representatives on September 28, 2006. House Concurrent Resolution 222 proclaims October 15 of each year to be Pregnancy and Infant Loss Remembrance Day in the United States.\n\nIn May 2008, Nicole Ballinger of the State of New South Wales(NSW) contacted her State and Federal MPs asking for help in creating an official Pregnancy and Infant Loss Remembrance Day in Australia. She wanted it nationally declared but started at the state level in hopes that if it was passed on the state level, it would be easier to get it passed at the federal level. Joanna Gash and Shelley Hancock, MPs at the Federal and State level, respectively, helped Ballinger lobby at both levels. \n\nIn NSW, Hancock and NSW Health Minister Jillian Skinner announced that Pregnancy and Infant Loss Remembrance Day had been officially declared.\n\nBallinger and Gash are still working to get Pregnancy and Infant Loss Remembrance Day declared nationwide.\n\nThe campaign for recognition of Pregnancy and Infant Loss Remembrance Day in Western Australia began in 2012 by John and Kate De'Laney. However it was a letter that Mrs De'Laney penned, in September 2013, to Premier Colin Barnett which brought Pregnancy and Infant Loss Remembrance Day to his attention.\n\nOn October 15, 2014, the Western Australian State Government passed a bipartisan agreement to officially recognize Pregnancy and Infant Loss Remembrance Day. In the motion put before the Legislative Council Premier Colin Barnett said \"Through this remembrance day we hope to create a greater awareness in the community about the immeasurable impact that pregnancy and early infancy loss has on so many women, their partners and families within our community. We hope that through the recognition of their loss and the subsequent pain endured, this remembrance day can play a small part in enabling families to find a way forward in their grieving, and in time heal the deep wound of loss. Most importantly, this remembrance day acknowledges that these babies were lovingly anticipated and remain forever in their parents’ hearts.\"\n\nThe first celebration of Pregnancy and Infant Loss Remembrance Day in Italy took place in 2007 by initiative of CiaoLapo Onlus charity for perinatal loss support. Since then, several local celebrations, as well as national meetings, are held every year on October 15 in many Italian towns. Through the lobbying efforts of CiaoLapo Onlus, on November 26, 2013 a press conference for the presentation of a bill for the official recognition of the day by the Italian state took place in Rome at the Chamber of Deputies, which was attended by politicians Aldo Di Biagio (Senate) and Matteo Biffoni (House) together with Claudia Ravaldi and Alfredo Vannacci of CiaoLapo, promoters of this initiative.\n"}
{"id": "25851439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25851439", "title": "Public holidays in Dominica", "text": "Public holidays in Dominica\n\nThis is a list of public holidays in Dominica.\n"}
{"id": "7906426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7906426", "title": "Quadrille Ball", "text": "Quadrille Ball\n\nQuadrille Ball is an annual society ball that has taken place in New York City each year since 1961, usually in January or February. It is a non-profit event that benefits the Germanistic Society, which in turn awards scholarships for German graduate students. The event is normally held at the Plaza Hotel in Manhattan. In 2006, due to the Plaza being closed for renovations, the ball was held at the Pierre Hotel instead.\n\nThe main performance at the ball is the Quadrille dance, hence the name of the ball. The Quadrille dance is performed each year by a new batch of debutantes (female and male, generally ages 21–30) who are paired up as couples. Most years there are 20 couples, but this number can vary slightly from year to year, although the total number of couples in the performance must be divisible by the number four, since the root word \"quad\" refers to the number four, and couples are arranged in squares of four couples each, as in American square dancing. Each couple is announced as they are first presented and make their way onto the ballroom floor. There is also a Caller who keeps announcing what steps are to be done next, throughout the dance. The tempo of the Quadrille dance is slow and stately, which lends an elegant and aristocratic air to the performance. The steps date back to the 17th century, when they were done by nobility in the royal courts of Europe. Since the Quadrille Ball always presents the same exact dance steps each year, the debutantes from previous years (called alumni) simply pass down the steps to the new debutantes, so therefore the ball does not need a choreographer to create new steps each year. After the Quadrille dance presentation, any alumni present are invited up for an honorary alumni waltz (improvisational), and then there is social dancing the rest of the night to a live orchestra that plays ballroom dance music (waltz, tango, foxtrot, swing, Latin, etc.).\n\nDebutantes are only supposed to perform once, and then they become alumni and have the option of applying to join the Junior Committee, which helps to train the next year's debutantes. Weekly rehearsals, which are organized by the Junior Committee, take place during the three months leading up to the ball (November, December, and January). After-parties are arranged following each rehearsal, in order to encourage camaraderie and social interaction among participants, and often are held at the private residences of alumni. New debutantes are usually referred by alumni, but the ball also considers applications from people who have no prior connection to the ball.\n\nOne interesting thing about this ball is that even though it is a German organized ball, the Caller announces the steps entirely in French. This can be explained by the fact that French used to be the universal language of European courts centuries ago when the Quadrille dance was invented, and therefore the steps are codified in the French language.\n\nDuring the 57th Quadrille Ball, on January 28th, 2017, Charlie O'Loughlin participated as a dancer and danced with Debbie Chiang He was featured in the New York Times at the event.\n\n"}
{"id": "2738057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2738057", "title": "Racket (crime)", "text": "Racket (crime)\n\nA racket is an organized criminal act, usually in which the criminal act is a form of business or a way to earn illegal money regularly or briefly but repeatedly. A racket is often a repeated or continuous criminal operation. \nOriginally and often still specifically, a racket was a criminal act in which the perpetrator or perpetrators offer a service that is fraudulently offered to solve a nonexistent problem, a service that will not be put into effect, or a service that would not exist without the racket. Conducting a racket is racketeering. Particularly, the potential problem may be caused by the same party that offers to solve it, but that fact may be concealed, with the specific intent to engender continual patronage for this party.\n\nThe most common example of a racket is the \"protection racket\", which promises to protect the target business or person from dangerous individuals in the neighborhood and then either collects the money or causes damage to the business until the owner pays. The racket exists as both the problem and its solution, and it is used as a method of extortion.\n\nHowever, the term \"racket\" has expanded in definition and may be used less strictly to refer to any illegal organized crime operation, including those that do not necessarily involve fraudulent practices. For example, \"racket\" may be used to refer to the \"numbers racket\" or the \"drug racket\", neither of which generally or explicitly involve fraud or deception with regard to the intended clientele. \n\nRacketeering is most often associated with organized crime, and the term was coined by the Employers' Association of Chicago in June 1927 in a statement about the influence of organized crime in the Teamsters union.\n\nExamples of crimes that may be alleged to be part of a pattern of racketeering activity include\n\n\nOn October 15, 1970, the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (18 U.S.C. §§ 1961–1968), commonly referred to as the \"RICO Act\", became United States law. The RICO Act allowed law enforcement to charge a person or group of people with racketeering, defined as committing multiple violations of certain varieties within a ten-year period. The purpose of the RICO Act was stated as \"the elimination of the infiltration of organized crime and racketeering into legitimate organizations operating in interstate commerce\". S.Rep. No. 617, 91st Cong., 1st Sess. 76 (1968). However, the statute is sufficiently broad to encompass illegal activities relating to any enterprise affecting interstate or foreign commerce.\n\nSection 1961(10) of Title 18 provides that the Attorney General of the United States may designate any department or agency to conduct investigations authorized by the RICO statute and such department or agency may use the investigative provisions of the statute or the investigative power of such department or agency otherwise conferred by law. Absent a specific designation by the Attorney General, jurisdiction to conduct investigations for violations of 18 U.S.C. § 1962 lies with the agency having jurisdiction over the violations constituting the pattern of racketeering activity listed in 18 U.S.C. § 1961.\n\nIn the US, civil racketeering laws are also used in federal and state courts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38601243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38601243", "title": "Refrigerator death", "text": "Refrigerator death\n\nA refrigerator death is death by suffocation in a refrigerator or similar appliance such as a freezer. Because, by design, such appliances are air-tight when closed, a person trapped inside will have a limited supply of oxygen. Early refrigerators could only be opened from the outside making accidental trappings, a possibility particularly of children playing with discarded appliances; several such deaths have been recorded. Modern designs close with a magnetic mechanism that can be opened from the inside, reducing the danger of accidental trappings.\n\nChildren would occasionally play in abandoned appliances, such as refrigerators and washing machines, and become trapped. Deaths were not uncommon for children in the United States before the passage of the Refrigerator Safety Act in 1956. The first reactions to the deaths were to ask people not to abandon refrigerators and to detach the doors of unused refrigerators. At least one state, Oklahoma, enacted legislation making the abandonment of a refrigerator with a latch in a location where a child might find it a felony. At least as early as 1954, alternative methods of securing air-tight closures had been suggested, such as in patent 2767011, filed by Francis P. Buckley \"et al.\" in 1954 and issued in 1956. In the mid- to late 1950s troops of people would sometimes search out abandoned refrigerators, detaching the doors and smashing the locks. However, these efforts were not entirely effective, and children were still dying inside refrigerators that had not been found and dismantled. \n\nThe continued occurrence of refrigerator deaths led to a law that required a change in the way refrigerator doors stay shut. The Refrigerator Safety Act is codified at 15 U.S.C. 1211-1214 as Public Law 84-930, 70 Stat. 953, on August 2, 1956. The act applied to all refrigerators manufactured in the United States after October 31, 1958, and is largely responsible for the adoption of the magnetic mechanism that is used today instead of a latch. Individual American states also have similar laws, such as California and Washington.\n\nThe number of deaths due to suffocation in refrigerators declined a significant amount in the years after the law.\n\nAround the world, manufacture of latch refrigerators has been replaced by that of ones with magnet-closing doors.\n\nAs recently as 2013, deaths in a latched refrigerator occurred, in South Africa.\n\nIn an early draft of \"Back to the Future\", the time machine was a refrigerator. This idea was eventually scrapped, partly because the writers wanted the time machine to be mobile, and because Robert Zemeckis was afraid that kids would imitate the film and get trapped in refrigerators.\n"}
{"id": "58993702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58993702", "title": "Rio Heroes", "text": "Rio Heroes\n\nRio Heroes is a Brazilian drama television series produced by Mixer Films, NBCUniversal, and Fox Networks Group. The series premiered on Fox Premium on February 24, 2018. \n\nStarring Murilo Rosa in the lead role, \"Rio Heroes\" follows the story of Jorge Pereira, a jiu-jitsu athlete who did not conform to the increasing limitations imposed by wrestling federations that prevented the execution of certain blows and forced the use of gloves. \n\nThe series is based on a wrestling championship that actually existed between the years 2007 and 2009 and which became known for its extremely crude and violent nature.\n\nThe series is based on the real story of the Brazilian wrestler Jorge Pereira, who decided to create a Vale tudo championship.\n\n"}
{"id": "20081203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20081203", "title": "Rome Quadriennale", "text": "Rome Quadriennale\n\nThe Rome Quadriennale (Italian: \"Quadriennale di Roma\", also called in English the \"Rome Quadrennial\") is a foundation for the promotion of contemporary Italian art.\n\nIts name derives from the four-yearly exhibitions it is required to host by its constitution. It is based in Rome in the monumental complex of Villa Carpegna.\n\nAll the Rome Quadriennale main exhibitions held at its historical site, the Palazzo delle Esposizioni of Rome, except where indicated.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2303936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2303936", "title": "Rutland House", "text": "Rutland House\n\nRutland House was the name of at least two London houses occupied by the Earls and Dukes of Rutland.\nRutland House on Aldersgate Street was leased by playwright Sir William Davenant, who converted a room of it into a private theatre in the 1650s. Rutland House in Knightsbridge was a six-acre site until its demolition in the 1830s.\n\nRutland House on Aldersgate Street, near Charterhouse Square in the City of London, close to Smithfield Market, was leased by the playwright and impresario Sir William Davenant (1606–1668).\n\nIn 1656, freshly released from imprisonment, Davenant turned a room of the house into what was, at first, a private theatre performing his own plays. Soon the performances were advertised and semi-open to the public at a cost of 5 shillings a head, a figure that ensured that only persons of quality would be able to attend. The reason for Rutland House being used rather than a conventional theatre was to overcome the laws of censorship which operated in all public places following the closures of all public theatres by the Puritan government of Oliver Cromwell.\n\nThe house seems to have been not totally suitable for theatrical use; however, a low narrow hall, or salon, at the rear of the house was adapted for the performances. Rather than sitting in comfort, the audience had to sit on improvised benches, and so confined was the space available that the benches had to be arranged at an angle to the small stage to accommodate the large audiences who came. The small stage, described by Davenant as a \"Cup-board stage\", was adorned with gold and purple curtains. Above the stage in what was contemporarily described as a \"louver hole\" was concealed a small orchestra.\n\nDavenant had seen Italian opera sung in Paris; this inspired him to conceive a cunning plan: as the Puritan government had no objection to music, only drama, he obtained permission to stage a performance of his opera \"The Siege of Rhodes\", to be sung in \"recitative music\". Thus, the first English opera was performed at Rutland House in May 1656 , simultaneously overcoming the prohibition of drama. The Rutland House production also included England's first professional actress, Mrs. Coleman and was later transferred to the Cockpit Theatre in Drury Lane.\n\nDavenant established at least two other \"private performance houses\" in Lincoln's Inn Fields and Drury Lane. After Davenant opened more conventional theatres, he continued to use Rutland House to preview new productions, to gauge audience reaction.\n\nAnother Rutland House occupied a six-acre site in Knightsbridge, then just outside London, from the mid 18th century until it was demolished in 1836. Rutland Gate, a street-cum-square of well-proportioned houses was erected on its site. It was built for John Manners, 3rd Duke of Rutland.\n\n"}
{"id": "56116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56116", "title": "Salting the earth", "text": "Salting the earth\n\nSalting the earth, or sowing with salt, is the ritual of spreading salt on conquered cities to symbolize a curse on their re-inhabitation. It originated as a symbolic practice in the ancient Near East and became a well-established folkloric motif in the Middle Ages.\n\nThe custom of purifying or consecrating a destroyed city with salt and cursing anyone who dared to rebuild it was widespread in the ancient Near East, but historical accounts are unclear as to what the sowing of salt meant in that process.\n\nVarious Hittite and Assyrian texts speak of ceremonially strewing salt, minerals, or plants (weeds, \"cress\", or \"kudimmu\", which are associated with salt and desolation) over destroyed cities, including Hattusa, Taidu, Arinna, Hunusa, Irridu, and Susa. The \"Book of Judges\" (9:45) says that Abimelech, the judge of the Israelites, sowed his own capital, Shechem, with salt, c. 1050 BC, after quelling a revolt against him. This may have been part of a ḥērem ritual (see Salt in the Bible).\n\nStarting in the 19th century, various texts claim that the Roman general Scipio Aemilianus Africanus plowed over and sowed the city of Carthage with salt after defeating it in the Third Punic War (146 BC), sacking it, and enslaving the survivors. Though ancient sources do mention symbolically drawing a plow over various cities, and salting them, none mention Carthage in particular. The Carthage story is a later invention, probably modeled on the story of Shechem.\n\nWhen Pope Boniface VIII destroyed Palestrina in 1299, he ordered that it be plowed \"following the old example of Carthage in Africa\", and also salted. \"I have run the plough over it, like the ancient Carthage of Africa, and I have had salt sown upon it...\" The text is not clear as to whether he thought Carthage was salted. Later accounts of other saltings in the destructions of medieval Italian cities are now rejected as unhistorical: Padua by Attila (452), perhaps in a parallel between Attila and the ancient Assyrians; Milan by Frederick Barbarossa (1162); and Semifonte by the Florentines (1202).\n\nThe English epic poem \"Siege of Jerusalem\" (c. 1370) recounts that Titus commanded the sowing of salt on the Temple, but this episode is not found in Josephus.\n\nIn Spain and the Spanish Empire, salt was poured onto the land owned by a convicted traitor (often one who was executed and their head placed on a \"picota\", or pike, afterwards) after their house was demolished.\n\nThis was done in Portugal as well. The last known event of this sort was the destruction of the Duke of Aveiro's palace in Lisbon in 1759, due to his participation in the Távora affair (a conspiracy against King Joseph I of Portugal). His palace was demolished and his land was salted. A stone memorial now perpetuates the memory of the shame of the Duke, where it is written:\nIn this place were put to the ground and salted the houses of José Mascarenhas, stripped of the honours of Duque de Aveiro and others... Put to Justice as one of the leaders of the most barbarous and execrable upheaval that... was committed against the most royal and sacred person of the Lord Joseph I. In this infamous land nothing may be built for all time.\n\nIn the Portuguese colony of Brazil, the leader of the Inconfidência Mineira, Tiradentes, was sentenced to death and his house was \"razed and salted, so that never again be built up on the floor, ... and even the floor will rise up a standard by which the memory is preserved (preserving) the infamy of this heinous offender...\" He suffered further indignities, being hanged and quartered, his body parts carried to various parts of the country where his fellow revolutionaries had met, and his children deprived of their property and honor.\n\nAn ancient legend says that Odysseus feigned madness by yoking a horse and an ox to his plow and sowing salt.\n\n"}
{"id": "31026718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31026718", "title": "Scotland Loves Animation", "text": "Scotland Loves Animation\n\nScotland Loves Animation is an arts and education charity, that holds an annual film festival focussed on Japanese animation called \"Scotland Loves Anime\" in Edinburgh and Glasgow.\n\nScotland Loves Animation is a registered Scottish charity for the promotion of animation - screening premieres, classics and hosting talks, education days and more.\n\nEstablished in 2010, Scotland Loves Animation promotes animation worldwide with a core selection of events running in October each year. Based across three of Scotland’s cultural hubs: Glasgow, Edinburgh, and Dundee, Scotland Loves Animation offers premiere screenings, exhibitions, workshops and international guests.\n\nThe focus of 2010 was on Japanese animation, with a double-screening of \"Evangelion 1.0\" and \"Evangelion 2.0\" (the UK premiere was in Glasgow the previous year 2009), as well as a full festival called Scotland Loves Anime in October 2010.\n\nScotland Loves Animation offers a platform for recent graduates, and will run an educational programme geared towards inspiring, improving, and celebrating graduates’ works. This year’s guests included Jonathan Clements, Oscar Wright and Nik Taylor. This is achieved through an Education Day that run as part of the festival whereby top industry professionals are invited to meet student in a full day of talks, panel discussions, and workshops.\n\nIn October 2010, Scotland Loves Animation created several events celebrating Japanese animation under the umbrella name of \"Scotland Loves Anime\" and ran them in the Glasgow Film Theatre in Glasgow and the Edinburgh Filmhouse in Edinburgh. The festival will be run again in October 2011. During the rest of the year they collaborate with other events, including the Glasgow Film Festival and the Glasgow Youth Film Festival, to program animated content.\n\nIn 2011, Scotland Loves Animation announced another project called \"We Love Anime\" that will tour Anime content across the UK and Ireland. It is scheduled to begin on March 26, 2011 and end in July 2011. Locations include: Edinburgh, Birmingham, Leeds, Newcastle, Dumfries, Dublin, Bexley and London.\n\nFilms in its line-up for 2011 include: \"The Disappearance of Haruhi Suzumiya\", \"Summer Wars\", \"Redline\", \"King of Thorn\" and \"\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2972476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2972476", "title": "Starkers!", "text": "Starkers!\n\nStarkers! is a monthly naked club night in London since 2003. It says it is the first and only regular night of its kind in England not segregated by gender and open to adults of all ages and sexual orientation. The dress code stipulates both men and women undress except for footwear, required for safety. The undress code extends to most staff.\n\nThe concept of \"Starkers!\" emerged from the underground fetish and swinger scenes of East London in late 2003 when a nude barman at such an establishment launched the event after suggestions from co-workers and club patrons. An early event was featured in an edition of H&E naturist magazine in 2004. Later in 2004 the event moved to a pub near Columbia Road in Bethnal Green where it rapidly gained a following among of the gay community. After police prevented the club continuing at its current home \"Starkers!\" relocated to a nightclub in Vauxhall. In summer 2006 the event moved to a close to London Bridge where it entertained up to 400 naked clubbers every month. In 2007 the event was again forced to close, after a Scottish newspaper story.\n\n\"Starkers!\" moved to a lap dancing venue in Shoreditch in late 2007 where it remained for several months. In summer 2008 the club relocated to Vauxhall where it remained until late 2010. Since 2012 the club has been in Dalston.\n\n\"Starkers!\" was second \"Club of the Year\" in the 2006 Erotic Awards.\n"}
{"id": "44930098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44930098", "title": "Subsonic Music Festival", "text": "Subsonic Music Festival\n\nSubsonic Music Festival is an annual electronic music festival held since December 2008 in a camping setting in Monkerai, Australia. It was established by Scott Commens (Sydney-based DJ as MSG) and Marco Mazzucco (Sydney-based DJ as Marcotix).\n\n\"TimeOut Sydney\"s Erin Moy said genres in 2012 included \"beats. From thumping four to the floor and tummy-rumbling bass,\" including dub, techno and hip hop. Pulse Radio in Australia gave the 2012 event a positive review. Among the artists that have performed are DJ Kentaro James Holden, Factory Floor, and Mike Huckaby.\n\nIn 2014 it took place at Riverwood Downs Mountain Valley Resort. \"Resident Advisor\" editors described that year's festival: \"Subsonic has gradually embraced house, techno and other forms of dance music alongside its original staples: psytrance and dub.\" \"Resident Advisor\" also listed Subsonic on its Top 10 November / December 2014 Festivals, from around the world.\n\n"}
{"id": "41398409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41398409", "title": "Teatro Alfieri, Florence", "text": "Teatro Alfieri, Florence\n\nThe Teatro Alfieri was a major theatre and opera house in 18th and 19th century Florence, located at Via dell'Ulivo #6 corner Via Pietrapiana in the Florence, region of Tuscany, Italy. \n\nIt was constructed originally in 1740 by members of the \"Accademia dei Risoluti\". At that time it was known as the \"Teatro di Santa Maria\" (the name of a nearby street) or the \"Teatro Risoluti\". The theatre underwent extensive reconstruction and enlargement in 1828, supervised by the architect Vittorio Bellini (1798 - 1860). It re-opened as the Teatro Alfieri, named in honour of the playwright Vittorio Alfieri.\n\nIn its heyday, the theatre interior decorations were elaborate, was used for both prose drama and operas. In the late 19th century and early 20th centuries, it also became known as a performance venue for plays written in the Florentine dialect. The theatre was demolished in 1928 when the Fascist government of Florence re-developed the Santa Croce district.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20493498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20493498", "title": "The Main Event (video)", "text": "The Main Event (video)\n\nThe Main Event is a 1999 video of The Main Event Tour by singers Olivia Newton-John, John Farnham and Anthony Warlow.\n\n"}
{"id": "5235103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5235103", "title": "The Transports", "text": "The Transports\n\nThe Transports is a folk ballad opera written by Peter Bellamy released by Free Reed Records in 1977. It is often cited as Bellamy's greatest achievement. It featured many artists from the 1970s English folk revival, including The Watersons, Martin Carthy, Nic Jones, A. L. Lloyd, June Tabor, Martin Winsor, Cyril Tawney and Dave Swarbrick. The orchestral arrangements were by Dolly Collins. \n\nIt was named as his Folk Record Of The Year by the folk music critic of The Guardian, Michael Grosvenor Myer.\n\nThe first performance was at Norwich Castle on 23 February 1978. \n\nIn addition to the two recorded performances, subsequent concert performances were at Kempton Park Racecourse (10 June 1978), Norwich Folk Festival (15 & 16 June 1978) and Rotterdam Folk Festival (July 5 1980 - both with original Norwich Castle cast), Chester Folk Club and the Herga Folk Club in Loughborough (1980), Bracknell Festival (12 July 1981), York University (1983), Queen Elizabeth Hall, London (South Bank Summer Folk Festival 1983), Norwich Folk Club (1984), Norwich School (1985), National Folk Festival, Perth, Australia, (1985), Portsmouth Festival (1987) and Whitby Festival (1992).\n\nA dramatic production, incorporating straight acting as well as the songs, was staged by The Great Hall Players in Norwich from 17-22 October 1988. Another staging by Crude Apache Theatre Company was performed on 27 February 2013, at Dragon Hall, King Street, Norwich. The latter was attended by members of the Norwich Folk Club original cast, The Great Hall Players cast and friends and family of Pete Bellamy.\n\nA new production, with musical arrangements by Paul Sartin, creative direction by Tim Dalling, and cast including Nancy Kerr, Greg Russell and the members of Faustus and The Young 'Uns was created in 2017 and released as an album. The company toured the UK during January to critical acclaim \n\n\n\nThe story is based on an account of two convicts of the First Fleet, Henry Cabell and Susannah Holmes as given by Norfolk historian Eric Fowler. According to Fowler's research, which begins in 1783, young Henry Cabell receives a sentence of transportation for fourteen years for the burglary of a country house. Another youngster, Susannah Holmes, receives a sentence of transportation for an unrelated theft. They are imprisoned for three years (because Britain has recognised the United States and can no longer send convicts there) before being sent to New South Wales. While imprisoned they fall in love and produce a son. Refused permission to marry, Susannah (along with all the women) is to be sent alone in the First Fleet to Australia. When Susannah's son is refused passage at quayside a guard (John Simpson) takes pity on her and travels with the infant to London to appeal to the home secretary, Lord Sydney. Sydney, affected by the incident, orders that Cabell and Holmes should be reunited, married on English soil, and transported together with their son (although they were not married until their arrival in Australia). Cabell eventually becomes a constable in the new colony and enjoys commercial success.\n\n\"The Transports - Silver Edition\" was released by Free Reed on the occasion of its 25th anniversary, with the original recordings and also re-recordings of many tracks by modern-day folk artists, FRDCD-2122.\n\nNotes\n\nSources\n\n"}
{"id": "862051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=862051", "title": "Treachery (law)", "text": "Treachery (law)\n\nTreachery is an offence in several countries. Both of the Australian and British offences were derived from or inspired by the related offence of treason. The name treachery was chosen because it is a synonym for treason.\n\nTreachery is a statutory offence in Australia. The offence is created by section 24AA of the Crimes Act 1914.\n\nThe Treachery Act 1940 created the offense to prosecute and execute enemy spies. Suspended in 1946, the statutory offence bearing that name in the United Kingdom was repealed in 1973.\n"}
{"id": "24109045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24109045", "title": "Uprising of Ivaylo", "text": "Uprising of Ivaylo\n\nThe Uprising of Ivaylo () was a rebellion of the Bulgarian peasantry against the incompetent rule of Emperor Constantine Tikh and the Bulgarian nobility. The revolt was fuelled mainly by the failure of the central authorities to confront the Mongol menace in north-eastern Bulgaria. The Mongols had looted and ravaged the Bulgarian population for decades, especially in the region of Dobrudzha. The weakness of the state institutions was a result of the accelerating process of feudalisation of the Bulgarian Empire.\n\nThe peasants' leader Ivaylo, said to had been a swineherd by the contemporary Byzantine chroniclers, proved to be a successful general and charismatic leader. In the first months of the rebellion, he defeated the Mongols and the Tsar's armies, personally slaying Constantine Tikh in battle. Later, he made a triumphant entry in the capital Tarnovo, married Maria, the emperor's widow, and forced the nobility to recognize him as Emperor of Bulgaria.\n\nThe Byzantine Emperor Michael VIII Palaiologos tried to exploit this situation to his favour and intervened in Bulgaria. He sent Ivan Asen III, son of the former Emperor Mitso Asen, to claim the Bulgarian throne at the head of a large Byzantine army. Simultaneously, Michael VIII incited the Mongols to attack from the north, forcing Ivaylo to fight on two fronts. Ivaylo was defeated by the Mongols and besieged in important fortress of Drastar. In his absence the nobility in Tarnovo opened the gates to Ivan Asen III. However, Ivaylo managed to break the siege and Ivan Asen III fled back to the Byzantine Empire. Michael VIII sent two large armies in an attempt to turn the fortunes of the war, but they were both defeated by the Bulgarian rebels in the Balkan mountains.\n\nIn the meantime, the nobility in the capital had proclaimed as emperor one of their own, the magnate George Terter I. Surrounded by enemies and with diminishing support due to the constant warfare, Ivaylo fled to the court of the Mongol warlord Nogai Khan to seek aid, but was eventually murdered. The legacy of the rebellion endured both in Bulgaria and in Byzantium. Years after the demise of the peasant emperor, two \"Pseudo-Ivaylos\" appeared in the Byzantine Empire and enjoyed wide support by the populace.\n\nFollowing the demise of Ivan Asen II (r. 1218–1241), the large Bulgarian Empire began to decline as a result of a succession of infant emperors and internal struggles among the nobility. To the north the country faced a Mongol invasion in 1242 and constant raiding thereafter. Although Ivan Asen II defeated the Mongols shortly before his death, the regency of Kaliman I Asen (r. 1241–1246) agreed to pay an annual tribute to the Mongols to avoid devastation. The Mongol invasion led to the collapse of the loosely held Cuman confederation in the western part of the Eurasian Steppe and the foundation of the Mongol Golden Horde. This had long–term political and strategic consequences for Bulgaria — the Cumans were Bulgarian allies and often supplied the Bulgarian army with auxiliary cavalry while the Golden Horde proved to be a hostile entity. To the south, Bulgaria lost large portions of Thrace and Macedonia to the Nicaean Empire, which had escaped the initial Mongol attacks. The lands to the north-west, including Belgrade, Braničevo and Severin Banat, were conquered by the Kingdom of Hungary.\n\nIn 1256 Bulgaria descended into a civil war between Mitso Asen (r. 1256–1257), a relative of Ivan Asen II, who established himself in south-eastern Bulgaria, and the bolyar of Skopje Constantine Tikh (r. 1257–1277), who was proclaimed emperor by the nobility in Tarnovo. Simultaneously, the Hungarian noble of Rus' princely origin Rostislav Mikhailovich established himself in Vidin as another claimant of the title Emperor of Bulgaria and was recognized as such by the Kingdom of Hungary. By 1261 Constantine Tikh had emerged as victor, but his 20–year-long reign did not bring stability to Bulgaria: Vidin remained separated from the central authorities in Tarnovo, the Mongols regularly campaigned in north-eastern Bulgaria, looting the countryside and paralysing the economy. That same year Michael VIII Palaiologos (r. 1259–1282) seized Constantinople and restored the Byzantine Empire as a major adversary of Bulgaria to the south. In the 1260s Constantine Tikh broke his leg in a hunting incident and was paralysed from the waist down. This disability weakened his control over the government and he fell under the influence of his second wife Irene Doukaina Laskarina, who was constantly involved in intrigues with her relatives in the Byzantine court. Later, he left the state affairs to his third wife, Maria Palaiologina Kantakouzene — a scandalous intriguer whose actions to secure the succession of her son alienated the nobility.\n\nThe internal political development and feudalisation of Bulgaria in the 13th century resulted in a rising number of serfs, as well as an increase in the power of the landed nobility. This, in turn, led to aspirations for more self-rule among the most influential nobles. Many of them established semi-independent fiefdoms that nominally recognized the emperor in Tarnovo and greatly reduced the capacity of the central authorities to deal with external threats. In the second half of the 13th century, the peasantry was losing personal privileges to the benefit of the secular and religious feudal lords, which in turn reduced the peasants' income and opportunities, worsening their lives. In parallel, the inability of Constantine Tikh to terminate the constant Mongol incursions in the north-east of the country shattered the pillars of the state institutions in Dobrudzha and contributed to the outbreak of the uprising and its swift success. The Mongol raids were carried out by the semi-independent chief Nogai Khan, who was more powerful than the legitimate ruler of the Golden Horde, Mengu-Timur (r. 1266–1280), and ruled over the steppes of modern Moldova and Ukraine.\n\nIn this situation one Ivaylo, a native of north-eastern Bulgaria, most likely the area near Provadia, began to incite the population to revolt. He was called by the contemporary Byzantine chroniclers by the name \"Bardokva\" (lettuce) or \"Lakhanas\" (vegetable) and his real name is known only from a note, attached to the Svarlig gospel. The Byzantine historian George Pachymeres stated that he was a swineherd who took care of pigs for money. However, the historian John Fine notes that pigs were a major livestock product at the time and the possessor of a large herd could have been part of the elite of the local community. Ivaylo claimed that he had visions from God to lead the people and that he was in contact with heaven and the saints. In fact, his mysticism was deliberately used to swiftly gain support and followers among the religious villagers. He came to be seen by many Bulgarians as a God-given saviour.\n\nThe rebellion broke out in the spring or summer of 1277 in north-eastern Bulgaria where the Mongol devastation was strongest. In the summer of 1277 Ivaylo confronted and defeated a plundering Mongol unit. Another victory followed soon and by autumn all Mongols were driven out of Bulgarian territory. Having achieved what had eluded the Bulgarian arms for decades, his popularity and reputation rose quickly. Among his followers were an increasing number of nobles who were discontent with the intrigues of Empress Maria. Ivaylo was hailed as Emperor by the people and many regions came under his control.\n\nIn the end of 1277 Constantine Tikh finally took measures to confront the rebels. He gathered a small army and advanced slowly as he had to travel in a chariot because of his injury. Ivaylo attacked and defeated this force, killing many of the emperor's close associates, while the rest of the army joined the rebels. Ivaylo personally slew Constantine Tikh, claiming that the emperor did nothing to keep his honour in the battle. After his triumph, Ivaylo began to seize the country's fortified cities, which surrendered and recognized him as emperor one by one. By the spring of 1278 only the capital Tarnovo remained under the control of Empress Maria.\n\nMeanwhile, the Byzantine Emperor Michael VIII Palaiologos left Constantinople for Adrianople, situated close to the Byzantine–Bulgarian border, in order to monitor the events and to exploit the situation in Bulgaria in his favour. The demise of Constantine Tikh came as a shock for the Byzantines. Initially, Michael VIII considered marrying his daughter to Ivaylo, but eventually decided that it would be more favourable to install a protégé of his own. His candidate was Ivan, son of former Emperor Mitso Asen, who had sought asylum in Byzantium and possessed estates in Asia Minor. Ivan promptly married Michael VIII's daughter Irene, pledged allegiance to Michael VIII and was proclaimed Emperor of Bulgaria as Ivan Asen III. The Byzantines sent gifts to the Bulgarian nobles to incite them to support Ivan Asen III and envoys were dispatched to Tarnovo to arrange for his recognition and the surrender of Empress Maria. In the meantime, Ivan Asen III marched north at the head of a Byzantine army while Ivaylo was besieging Tarnovo.\n\nFaced with two adversaries, Maria initially tried to negotiate with Michael VIII the succession of her son Michael Asen but the Byzantine emperor insisted on an unconditional surrender. Much to the surprise of the Byzantines, Maria then entered in negotiations with Ivaylo and offered him her hand and the Bulgarian crown on the condition that he would guarantee the rights of Michael Asen as his sole successor. Contemporary chronicler George Pachymeres accuses Maria of \"ignoring the moral duty to her late husband\" but in fact her decision was driven by her hatred towards her uncle Michael VIII, whom she considered a heretic, as well as by her desire to hang on to power. At first, Ivaylo was reluctant to accept the proposal claiming that Maria was offering what he was about to take by force but eventually conceded \"because of the peace and to avoid bloodshed in a civil war\". However, Ivaylo made it clear that he was the one giving clemency, not the one receiving it.\n\nIn the spring of 1278 Ivaylo entered Tarnovo in triumph, married Maria and was proclaimed Emperor of Bulgaria. However, since he was inexperienced in state affairs, Ivaylo failed to consolidate his authority over the nobility in the capital, who were concerned for their own influence, and often quarrelled with Maria. He still had to deal with overwhelming challenges — the Byzantines dispatched many troops under the command of Michael Glabas in support of Ivan Asen III and incited the Mongols to attack from the north to open war on two fronts. Yet Ivaylo vigorously prepared his forces to counter the adversaries and managed to gain support among many nobles.\n\nIvaylo left Tarnovo in the summer of 1278, marched northwards and defeated the Mongols, pushing them across the Danube river. The situation to the south was more dangerous. The Byzantines launched an attack on a wide front along the Balkan Mountains from the Shipka Pass to the Black Sea. They failed to cross the mountains as the defenders held on until the Mongols were defeated and reinforcement could be sent. Despite the huge efforts and numerical superiority the Byzantines made few gains at very high cost. For instance, the fortress of Ktenia was seized after many assaults, the castles of Kran and Maglizh fell with heavy casualties for the invaders. The Bulgarian commander Stan fell valiantly during the defence of Boruy and many other of Ivaylo's associates distinguished themselves in the war — Momchil, Kuman, Damyan, Kancho. All battles led personally by Ivaylo were successful — he fought at Studena and Pirgitsa — and by the autumn of 1278 the Bulgarians gained the upper hand forcing the Byzantines to abandon the campaign. The Byzantine morale was very low because Ivaylo gave no quarter. George Pachymeres wrote that \"to fall in the hands of Lakhanas [Ivaylo] was equivalent to death\".\n\nWith the situation to the south under control, Ivaylo had to confront a second Mongol attack to the north. This time the Bulgarians faced the elite forces of Nogai Khan. The Mongols prevailed and Ivaylo was besieged in the important city of Drastar on the southern bank of Danube, where he withstood a three-month siege. While bulk of the rebel army was engaged to the north, Michael VIII started negotiations with the nobility of Tarnovo and convinced the local dignitaries to recognize the claim of Ivan Asen III. In the beginning of 1279, a Byzantine army under Michael Glabas disembarked near Varna and set off to the capital, supported by a Mongol unit commanded by Kasim beg. The elite of Tarnovo spread rumours that Ivaylo had perished fighting the Mongols and opened the gates to the Byzantines and their protégé. Ivan Asen III was proclaimed emperor and Maria, who at the time bore Ivaylo's child, was exiled to Constantinople. To consolidate the support of the nobility, the new monarch married his sister Kira Maria to George Terter, one of Bulgaria's most powerful and influential feudal lords, whose estates were centred at Cherven. Kasim beg, who had been awarded the high court title \"protostrator\", felt that the rise of George Terter was at his expense, deserted Ivan Asen III and joined the cause of Ivaylo.\n\nIn the meantime fighting between the rebels and the Byzantines continued. Although the Bulgarian forces were cut in two following the Byzantine landing at Varna, heavy clashes erupted in the eastern Balkan mountains with new vigour, especially around the Kotel Pass and the Varbitsa Pass. The Bulgarian positions there were surrounded both from the north and the south. The Byzantines had to besiege and take the fortresses one by one which cost time and casualties. Many strongholds remained unconquered and permanently engaged large Byzantine forces.\n\nIn the spring of 1279, Ivaylo managed to break through the Mongol blockade at Drastar and besieged Tarnovo. This advance took Ivan Asen III and his supporters by surprise. Michael VIII took measures to protect his protégé and in the summer of 1279 sent a 10,000-strong army under the command of the \"protovestiarios\" Murin. Ivaylo did not linger in Tarnovo and engaged the invading host on 17 June 1279 in the Kotel Pass. Despite being outnumbered, in the ensuing battle near the fortress of Devina the Bulgarians achieved a complete victory. Part of the Byzantines perished in the battle along with their commander, the rest were captured and killed by orders of Ivaylo. A month later, the Byzantines sent another army of 5,000 troops led by the \"protovestiarios\" Aprin. Ivaylo engaged them in the eastern Balkan Mountains on 15 August 1279 and after a long combat defeated the Byzantines, personally killing Aprin in the process. Ivaylo was said to had \"fought with fury, achieving many feats\" in both battles.\n\nWith the Byzantines defeated, the authority of Ivan Asen III was shaken. He and his wife Irene secretly fled Tarnovo taking the Byzantine imperial insignia, kept in the treasury since the Bulgarian victory in the battle of Tryavna in 1190. Michael VIII was infuriated with the cowardliness of the couple and refused to grant them an audience for days. In Tarnovo, the nobility refused to open the gates to Ivaylo and instead elected for emperor George Terter, which had devastating effect on the rebels. Despite the military successes, neither was the Mongol threat dealt with, nor was Ivaylo capable to secure the support of the Bulgarian nobility and unify the country against the overwhelming forces of the Mongols and the Byzantines. As a result, Ivaylo's followers, disillusioned with the endless wars without prospects for peace, began to abandon his cause. With diminished support, in 1280 Ivaylo crossed the Danube with a few loyal associates, including Kasim beg, to seek aid from Nogai Khan.\n\nInitially, Ivaylo was received well by Nogai Khan. When news of his whereabouts reached Constantinople, Michael VIII sent Ivan Asen III with rich gifts to the Mongol court to ask assistance. Nogai Khan expressed interest in the issue and for several months kept promising help to both pretenders. Eventually the Byzantine influence prevailed because the Mongol leader was married to the illegitimate daughter of Michael VIII, Euphrosyne Palaiologina. During a feast, in which Ivaylo and Ivan Asen III seated on both sides of Nogai Khan, he pointed at Ivaylo with the words \"He is an enemy of my father, the Emperor [Michael VIII], and does not deserve to live\" and ordered his execution. Ivaylo, along with Kasim beg, were duly murdered on the spot. Ivan Asen III was fortunate to avoid similar fate due to the advocacy of Euphrosyne and eventually returned to his estates in Asia Minor, where he died in 1303.\n\nIvaylo's legacy enjoyed huge popularity beyond the borders of Bulgaria years after his death. At least two \"Pseudo-Ivaylos\" appeared in the Byzantine Empire. In 1284 a Bulgarian who claimed to had been Ivaylo, arrived in Constantinople and offered his services to Emperor Andronikos II Palaiologos to fight against the Turks. Andronikos II asked the ex-empress Maria to verify if the man was her husband and she exposed him as an imposter. Pseudo-Ivaylo was detained but the populace demanded his release since the Turks \"feared the barbarian [Ivaylo]\". The Byzantine emperor calculated that there was nothing to lose and allowed him to march against the Turks. \"Ivaylo\" gathered a huge army of peasants, much to the concern of the Byzantine nobility who feared a revolt or coup. The emperor then summoned Pseudo-Ivaylo under some pretext and had him imprisoned. A few years later another Bulgarian (whose real name was Ivan) appeared in the Byzantine Empire claiming he was Ivaylo. He was given an army to combat the Turks but after a few victories he was captured and killed.\n\nIn Bulgaria, the two decades following the end of the rebellion marked the lowest point of decline of the Second Empire. The reigns of George Terter I (r. 1280–1292) and his successor Smilets (r. 1292–1298) were characterised with constant Mongol interference in the state's domestic affairs and progressive disintegration of Imperial authority in favour of the feudal magnates. Bulgaria had lost almost all lands to the south of the Balkan mountains to the Byzantines and was in no position to regain these regions. The fortunes of the country changed for the better under George Terter I's son, Theordore Svetoslav (r. 1300–1321), when Bulgaria acquired Bessarabia from the Mongols and reconquered Northern Thrace from the Byzantines, bringing stability and prosperity.\n\nThe rebellion failed because the rebels had to fight against overwhelming odds — not only the Byzantines and the Mongols, but also much of the Bulgarian nobility. Although ultimately unsuccessful, the uprising of Ivaylo had achieved a recognition of its leader as emperor, an aim in which all other popular revolts in medieval Europe failed. In Socialist Bulgaria the rebellion was portrayed as a social movement against the iniquity of the feudal system and the foreign invaders. In modern Bulgaria Ivaylo is still revered as a fighter for freedom and social justice. However, there is no evidence that Ivaylo and his followers ever intended to conduct social reforms. The fact that the rebellion was supported by some nobles and that Ivaylo married the hated Empress Maria also indicates that the main factor was the incompetent rule of Emperor Constantine Tikh. The Bulgarian historians praise the heroism of the rebels and evaluate the uprising as a bright patriotic achievement of the Bulgarian people because Ivaylo was able to gather wide support from all social classes of Bulgaria to defend the then-troubled country against the external enemies. Ivaylo is remembered as a heroic ruler and a tragic figure who represented the ideal of the \"Good Tsar\".\n\nThe rebellion of Ivaylo is among the most popular and recognizable Bulgarian historical events with numerous pieces of art dedicated to it. The 1959 opera \"Ivaylo\" by the composer Marin Goleminov, based on the overture of the same name by Dobri Hristov, was inspired by the \"revolutionary pathos and tragedy of the epoch\". Dedicated to the uprising are also the 1964 colour feature film \"Ivaylo\" by the director Nikola Valchev, based on the novel \"The Smouldering Ember\" by Evgeni Konstantinov, and the 1921 drama \"The Throne\" by the prominent Bulgarian poet and writer Ivan Vazov. The town of Ivaylovgrad in modern southern Bulgaria and the village of Ivaylo near the city of Pazardzhik are named after the rebel leader. There are statues in several cities dedicated to him, as well as a monument commemorating the victory over the Byzantines in the battle of Devina, situated at 5 km to the south-east of the town of Kotel. That memorial, named \"The Stone Guard\", was listed in the top ten emblematic monuments on the history of Bulgaria.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2419084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2419084", "title": "War bride", "text": "War bride\n\nWar bride is a term used in reference to women who married military personnel from other countries in times of war or during military occupations, especially–but not exclusively–during World War I and World War II.\n\nAmong the largest and best documented examples of this were the marriages between American servicemen and German women which took place after World War II. By 1949, over 20,000 German war brides had emigrated to the United States.\nFurthermore, it is estimated that there are \"... 15,000 Australian women who married American servicemen based in Australia during World War II and moved to the US to be with their husbands\". Allied servicemen also married many women in other countries where they were stationed at the end of the war, including France, Italy, Luxembourg, the Philippines, Japan and China. This also occurred in Korea and Vietnam with the later wars in those countries involving U.S. troops and other anti-communist soldiers. As many as 70,000 GI war brides left the United Kingdom, 150,000 to 200,000 hailed from continental Europe, 15,500 from Australia and 1,500 from New Zealand, between the years 1942 and 1952.\n\nDue to the Philippine Insurrection, a few U.S. servicemen would take Filipinas as their wives, with documentation as early as 1902 of one immigrating with their servicemember husband to the UK. These Filipinas were already U.S. nationals, when immigrating to the United States, making their legal status significantly different from previous Asian immigrants to the US.\n\nDuring and immediately after World War II, more than 60,000 U.S. servicemen married women overseas and they were promised that their wives and children would receive free passage to the U.S. The U.S. Army's \"Operation War Bride\", which eventually transported an estimated 70,000 women and children, began in Britain in early 1946. The press dubbed it \"Operation Diaper Run\". The first batch of war brides (452 British women and their 173 children and one Bridegroom) left Southampton harbor on SS Argentina on January 26, 1946 and arrived in the U.S. on February 4, 1946. Over the years, an estimated 300,000 foreign war brides moved to the United States following the passage of the War Brides Act of 1945 and its subsequent amendments, of which 51,747 were Filipinos and an estimated 50,000 were Japanese.\n\nRobyn Arrowsmith, a historian who spent nine years researching Australia's war brides, said between 12,000 and 15,000 Australian women had married visiting U.S. servicemen and moved to the U.S. with their husbands. Significantly, an estimated 30,000 to 40,000 Newfoundland women married American servicemen during the time of Ernest Harmon Air Force Base's existence (1941-1966), in which tens of thousands of U.S. servicemen arrived to defend the island and North America from Nazi Germany during World War II and the Soviet Union during the Cold War. Many of these war brides settled in the U.S., so much so that in 1966 the Newfoundland government created a tourism campaign specifically tailored to provide opportunities for them and their families to reunite.\n\nSome war brides came from Australia to Britain aboard HMS Victorious.\n\nIn 1945 and 1946 several Bride trains were run in Australia to transport war brides and their children travelling to or from ships.\n\nAbout 650 Japanese war brides migrated to Australia after the ban on Japanese migration, imposed at the outbreak of the Pacific War, was lifted in 1952 when the San Francisco Peace Treaty came into force. They had married Australian soldiers involved in the occupation of Japan.\n\n47,783 British war brides arrived in Canada accompanied by some 21,950 children. Since 1939, most Canadian soldiers were stationed in Britain. As such, about 90% of all war brides arriving in Canada were British. 3,000 war brides came from the Netherlands, Belgium, Newfoundland, France, Italy, Ireland and Scotland. The first marriage between a Canadian serviceman and a British bride was registered at Farnborough Church in the Aldershot area in December 1939, just 43 days after the first Canadian soldiers arrived. Many of these war brides emigrated to Canada, beginning in 1944 and peaking in 1946. A special Canadian agency, the Canadian Wives' Bureau was set up by the Canadian Department of Defence to arrange transport and assist war brides in the transition to Canadian life. The majority of Canadian war brides landed at Pier 21 in Halifax, Nova Scotia, most commonly on the following troop and hospital ships: \"Queen Mary\", \"Lady Nelson\", \"Letitia\", \"Mauretania\", and \"Île de France\".\n\nThe Canadian Museum of Immigration at Pier 21 has exhibits and collections dedicated to war brides. There is a National Historic Site marker located at Pier 21, as well.\n\nDuring the campaign of 1943-1945, there were more than 10,000 marriages between Italian women and American soldiers.\n\nFrom relationship between Italian women and African-American soldiers, have born the \"mulattini\": many of these children were abandoned in orphanages, because at the time the interracial marriage in the United States was not possible in many states.\n\nSeveral thousand Japanese who were sent as colonizers to Manchukuo and Inner Mongolia were left behind in China. The majority of Japanese left behind in China were women, and these Japanese women mostly married Chinese men and became known as \"stranded war wives\" (zanryu fujin). Because they had children fathered by Chinese men, the Japanese women were not allowed to bring their Chinese families back with them to Japan so most of them stayed. Japanese law only allowed children fathered by Japanese fathers to become Japanese citizens. However, recently Japan lifted the restrictions on the women and citizenship for children born to foreign men and they have been migrating back to Japan with their Chinese husbands and children.\n\n6,423 Korean women married U.S. military personnel as war brides during and immediately after the Korean War.\n\n8,040 Vietnamese women came to the United States as war brides between 1964 and 1975.\n\nWar brides from wars subsequent to Vietnam became less common due to differences in religion and culture, shorter durations of wars, and direct orders. As of 2006, about 1,500 visa requests had been made by U.S. military personnel for Iraqi spouses and fiancées. There have been several well-publicized cases of American soldiers marrying Iraqi women.\n\n\n\n"}
