{"id": "10422651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10422651", "title": "1952 Constitution of Romania", "text": "1952 Constitution of Romania\n\nThe 1952 Constitution of Romania, also called the \"constitution of building socialism\", expressed the consolidation of Communist power, featuring greater ideological content than its 1948 predecessor. A draft was written by a commission elected by the Great National Assembly on March 27, 1952, and published on July 18. By a 324-0 vote, it was adopted by the Great National Assembly on September 24, when it came into force, and published three days later.\n\nThe document contained an introductory chapter and ten further chapters containing 105 articles. Romania was proclaimed a \"state of working people from the cities and villages\" that \"was born as a result of the historic victory of the Soviet Union against German fascism and the liberation of Romania by the glorious Red Army, a liberation that empowered the working people, above all the working class led by the Communist Party, to demolish the fascist dictatorship, to destroy the power of the exploiting classes and to build a state of popular democracy, which fully coincides with the interests and hopes of Romania's popular masses\". The document provides for the state's independence and sovereignty to be \"defended\" by the \"friendship and alliance with the great Soviet Union\". The state's domestic politics were oriented toward \"liquidating the exploitation of man by man and the construction of socialism\" by strengthening and increasing the socialist sector of the economy and by realising \"in consequence a policy of limiting and eliminating capitalist elements\". Among the Romanian state's functions were to repress \"the classes removed from power\" and to defend against external aggression. Through explicit provisions, the state was to have a dominant role not only in the economy, but also in areas such as education and culture. Regarding political institutions, there was no change from the preceding constitution, the Great National Assembly continuing as the supreme organ of state power, while local governing bodies were now known as \"popular assemblies\" (\"\"). The Romanian Workers' Party was proclaimed \"the leading force both of those who work, as well as of the state organs and institutions\", at the same time gathering around itself \"all organisations of those who work\". Once again, citizens' fundamental rights and freedoms were proclaimed, but in practice, these were not respected.\n\nModified 11 times in the ensuing years, the 1952 Constitution was abrogated on August 21, 1965, when the 1965 Constitution of Romania came into force.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52130837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52130837", "title": "Access to Justice Initiatives", "text": "Access to Justice Initiatives\n\nAccess to Justice Initiatives (AJI) are a cluster of projects carried out by the Sarhad Rural Support Programme (SRSP) in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Pakistan, which aim at enhancing legal awareness and empowering citizens at the grass-roots level by enabling them to lobby for their rights and seek remedies for their legal problems.\n\nAccess to Justice Initiatives comprises the following projects:\n\nA common feature of the projects is that they all aim at strengthening the capacity of the disadvantaged communities to protect their rights and to participate and hold public institutions accountable. In traditional hierarchical societies, civil society organisations face challenges in promoting access to services for marginalized and vulnerable groups.\n\nThe projects seek to addresses issues of weak links among justice mechanisms and a lack of reliable legal support. Some of the projects focus on the informal justice institutions so that alternative dispute resolution methods can be used to settle disputes at community level, while helping to create a forum for dialogue between the formal and informal mechanisms. Members of the communities are trained as paralegals to bridge the gap between the most vulnerable members of society and the state institutions. In remote and backward areas of Pakistan the public at large is reluctant in trusting the police or lawyers but shows greater inclination in trusting notables of their own communities, who often resolve disputes via the Jirga system. The paralegals and mediators are briefed about human rights, legal system and the limits of their authority in solving complicated disputes. This ensures that rights of the participants are not forfeited. The Dispute Resolution Councils (DRC’s) set up in this respect are required to work in collaboration the local police to ensure transparency and efficiency. A significant number of women have been trained as mediators and paralegal to make the programme more receptive to women.\n\nLegal aid is provided to individuals whose troubles cannot be resolved through negotiation, conciliation, mediation or other informal method's. Very often, case which merit legal aid involve issues of child marriage, forced marriage, matrimonial cruelty, child custody, deprivation of inheritance, discrimination etc.\n"}
{"id": "39356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39356", "title": "Anne Boleyn", "text": "Anne Boleyn\n\nAnne Boleyn (; 1501 – 19 May 1536) was Queen of England from 1533 to 1536 as the second wife of King Henry VIII. Henry's marriage to her, and her subsequent execution by beheading, made her a key figure in the political and religious upheaval that was the start of the English Reformation. Anne was the daughter of Thomas Boleyn, 1st Earl of Wiltshire, and his wife, Lady Elizabeth Howard, and was educated in the Netherlands and France, largely as a maid of honour to Queen Claude of France. Anne returned to England in early 1522, to marry her Irish cousin James Butler, 9th Earl of Ormond; the marriage plans were broken off, and instead she secured a post at court as maid of honour to Henry VIII's wife, Catherine of Aragon.\n\nEarly in 1523 Anne was secretly betrothed to Henry Percy, son of the 5th Earl of Northumberland, but the betrothal was broken off when Percy's father refused to support their engagement. Cardinal Wolsey refused the match in January 1524 and Anne was sent back home to Hever Castle. In February or March 1526, Henry VIII began his pursuit of Anne. She resisted his attempts to seduce her, refusing to become his mistress, which her sister Mary had been. It soon became the one absorbing object of Henry's desires to annul his marriage to Catherine of Aragon so he would be free to marry Anne. When it became clear that Pope Clement VII would not annul the marriage, the breaking of the Catholic Church's power in England began. In 1532, Henry granted Anne the Marquessate of Pembroke.\n\nHenry and Anne formally married on 25 January 1533, after a secret wedding on 14 November 1532. On 23 May 1533, newly appointed Archbishop of Canterbury Thomas Cranmer declared Henry and Catherine's marriage null and void; five days later, he declared Henry and Anne's marriage valid. Shortly afterwards, the Pope decreed sentences of excommunication against Henry and Cranmer. As a result of this marriage and these excommunications, the first break between the Church of England and Rome took place and the Church of England was brought under the King's control. Anne was crowned Queen of England on 1 June 1533. On 7 September, she gave birth to the future Queen Elizabeth I. Henry was disappointed to have a daughter rather than a son but hoped a son would follow and professed to love Elizabeth. Anne subsequently had three miscarriages, and by March 1536, Henry was courting Jane Seymour. In order to marry Jane Seymour, Henry had to find reasons to end the marriage to Anne.\n\nHenry VIII had Anne investigated for high treason in April 1536. On 2 May she was arrested and sent to the Tower of London, where she was tried before a jury of peers – which included Henry Percy, her former betrothed, and her own uncle, Thomas Howard – and found guilty on 15 May. She was beheaded four days later. Modern historians view the charges against her, which included adultery, incest and plotting to kill the king, as unconvincing. Some say that Anne was accused of witchcraft but the indictments make no mention of this charge. After the coronation of her daughter, Elizabeth, Anne was venerated as a martyr and heroine of the English Reformation, particularly through the works of John Foxe. Over the centuries, she has inspired, or been mentioned, in many artistic and cultural works and thereby retained her hold on the popular imagination. She has been called \"the most influential and important queen consort England has ever had\", as she provided the occasion for Henry VIII to annul his marriage to Catherine of Aragon and declare the English church's independence from Rome.\n\nAnne was the daughter of Thomas Boleyn, later Earl of Wiltshire and Earl of Ormond, and his wife, Lady Elizabeth Howard, daughter of Thomas Howard, 2nd Duke of Norfolk. Thomas Boleyn was a well respected diplomat with a gift for languages; he was also a favourite of Henry VII of England, who sent him on many diplomatic missions abroad. Anne and her siblings grew up at Hever Castle in Kent. However, the siblings were born in Norfolk at the Boleyn home at Blickling. A lack of parish records from the period has made it impossible to establish Anne's date of birth. Contemporary evidence is contradictory, with several dates having been put forward by various historians. An Italian, writing in 1600, suggested that she had been born in 1499, while Sir Thomas More's son-in-law, William Roper, indicated a much later date of 1512. Her birth was most likely sometime between 1501 and 1507. As with Anne herself, it is uncertain when her two siblings were born, but it seems clear that her sister Mary was older than Anne. Mary's children clearly believed their mother had been the elder sister. Most historians now agree that Mary was born in 1499. Mary's grandson claimed the Ormonde title in 1596 on the basis she was the elder daughter, which Elizabeth I accepted. Their brother George was born around 1504.\n\nThe academic debate about Anne's birth date focuses on two key dates: 1501 and 1507. Eric Ives, a British historian and legal expert, advocates the 1501 date, while Retha Warnicke, an American scholar who has also written a biography of Anne, prefers 1507. The key piece of surviving written evidence is a letter Anne wrote sometime in 1514. She wrote it in French to her father, who was still living in England while Anne was completing her education at Mechelen, in the Burgundian Netherlands, now Belgium. Ives argues that the style of the letter and its mature handwriting prove that Anne must have been about thirteen at the time of its composition, while Warnicke argues that the numerous misspellings and grammar errors show that the letter was written by a child. In Ives' view, this would also be around the minimum age that a girl could be a maid of honour, as Anne was to the regent, Margaret of Austria. This is supported by claims of a chronicler from the late 16th century, who wrote that Anne was twenty when she returned from France.\nThese findings are contested by Warnicke in several books and articles, and the evidence does not conclusively support either date.\n\nThere are two independent contemporary sources for the 1507 date. Author Gareth Russell wrote a summary of the evidence and relates that Jane Dormer, Duchess of Feria, wrote her memoirs shortly before her death in 1612. The former lady-in-waiting and confidante to Queen Mary I wrote of Anne Boleyn: \"She was convicted and condemned and was not yet twenty-nine years of age.\" William Camden wrote a history of the reign of Queen Elizabeth I and was granted access to the private papers of Lord Burghley and to the state archives. In that history, in the chapter dealing with Elizabeth's early life, he records in the margin that Anne was born in MDVII (1507).\n\nAnne's great great great-grandparents included a Lord Mayor of London, a duke, an earl, two aristocratic ladies, and a knight. One of\nthem, Geoffrey Boleyn, had been a mercer and wool merchant before becoming Lord Mayor. The Boleyn family originally came from Blickling in Norfolk, north of Norwich. At the time of Anne's birth, the Boleyn family was considered one of the most respected in the English aristocracy. Among her relatives, she numbered the Howards, one of the preeminent families in the land; and one of her ancestors included King Edward I of England. According to Eric Ives, she was certainly of more noble birth than Jane Seymour, Catherine Howard, and Catherine Parr, Henry VIII's three other English wives. The spelling of the Boleyn name was variable, as common at the time. Sometimes it was written as \"Bullen\", hence the bull heads which formed part of her family arms. At the court of Margaret of Austria in the Netherlands, Anne is listed as \"Boullan\". From there she signed the letter to her father as \"Anna de Boullan\". She is also referred to as \"Anna Bolina\"; this Latinised form is used in most portraits of her.\n\nAnne's early education was typical for women of her class. In 1513, Anne was invited to join the schoolroom of Margaret of Austria and her four wards. Her academic education was limited to arithmetic, her family genealogy, grammar, history, reading, spelling, and writing. She developed domestic skills such as dancing, embroidery, good manners, household management, music, needlework, and singing. Anne learned to play games, such as cards, chess, and dice. She was also taught archery, falconry, horseback riding, and hunting.\n\nAnne's father continued his diplomatic career under Henry VIII. In Europe, Thomas Boleyn's charm won many admirers, including Margaret of Austria, daughter of Maximilian I, Holy Roman Emperor. During this period, Margaret ruled the Netherlands on her nephew Charles's behalf and was so impressed with Boleyn that she offered his daughter Anne a place in her household. Ordinarily, a girl had to be twelve years old to have such an honour, but Anne may have been younger, as the Archduchess affectionately referred to her as \"la petite Boulin \". Anne made a good impression in the Netherlands with her manners and studiousness, Margaret reported that she was well spoken and pleasant for her young age, and told Sir Thomas Boleyn that his daughter was \"so presentable and so pleasant, considering her youthful age, that I am more beholden to you for sending her to me, than you to me\" (E.W. Ives, op.cit.). Anne stayed with Margaret from spring 1513 until her father arranged for her to attend Henry VIII's sister Mary, who was about to marry Louis XII of France in October 1514.\n\nIn France, Anne was a maid of honour to Queen Mary, and then to Mary's 15-year-old stepdaughter Queen Claude, with whom she stayed nearly seven years. In the Queen's household, she completed her study of French and developed interests in art, fashion, illuminated manuscripts, literature, music, poetry, and religious philosophy. She also acquired knowledge of French culture, dance, etiquette, literature, music, and poetry and came to gain experience in flirtation and the game of courtly love. Though all knowledge about Anne's experiences in the French court are conjecture, even Eric Ives, in his latest edition of the biography, conjectures that she was likely to have made the acquaintance of King Francis I's sister, Marguerite de Navarre, a patron of humanists and reformers. Marguerite de Navarre was also an author in her own right, and her works include elements of Christian mysticism and reform that verged on heresy, though she was protected by her status as the French king's beloved sister. She or her circle may have encouraged Anne's interest in reform, as well as in poetry and literature. Anne's education in France proved itself in later years, inspiring many new trends among the ladies and courtiers of England, and it may have been instrumental in pressing their King toward the culture-shattering contretemps with the Papacy itself. Eric Ives's latest version of his biography hypothesises that Anne may have had evangelistic conviction and a strong spiritual inner life. William Forrest, author of a contemporary poem about Catherine of Aragon, complimented Anne's \"passing excellent\" skill as a dancer. \"Here\", he wrote, \"was [a] fresh young damsel, that could trip and go.\"\n\nAnne had been of average height and she had a slender build with long straight and thick black or dark brown hair, dark brown eyes, a considerably strong nose, a definite wide mouth with slim lips, and an olive complexion. She was considered to be brilliant, charming, driven, elegant, forthright, and graceful with a keen wit and a lively, opinionated, and passionate personality. Anne was depicted to be \"sweet and cheerful\" in her youth and she enjoyed cards and dice games, drinking wine, eating French cuisine, flirting, gambling, gossiping, and hearing a good joke. She was fond of archery, falconry, hunting, and the occasional game of bowls. Yet Anne also had a sharp tongue and a terrible temper.\n\nAnne exerted a powerful charm on those who met her, though opinions differed on her attractiveness. The Venetian diarist Marino Sanuto, who saw Anne when Henry VIII met Francis I at Calais in October 1532, described her as \"not one of the handsomest women in the world; she is of middling stature, swarthy complexion, long neck, wide mouth, bosom not much raised... eyes, which are black and beautiful\". Simon Grynée wrote to Martin Bucer in September 1531 that Anne was \"young, good-looking, of a rather dark complexion\". Lancelot de Carle called her \"beautiful with an elegant figure\", and a Venetian in Paris in 1528 also reported that she was said to be beautiful. The most influential description of Anne, but also the least reliable, was written by the Catholic propagandist and polemicist Nicholas Sanders in 1586, half a century after Anne's death: \"Anne Boleyn was rather tall of stature, with black hair, and an oval face of a sallow complexion, as if troubled with jaundice. It is said she had a projecting tooth under the upper lip, and on her right hand six fingers. There was a large wen under her chin, and therefore to hide its ugliness she wore a high dress covering her throat... She was handsome to look at, with a pretty mouth\". Sanders held Anne responsible for Henry VIII's rejection of the Catholic Church, and writing fifty years after her death, was keen to demonise her. Sanders's description contributed to what biographer Eric Ives calls the \"monster legend\" of Anne Boleyn. Though his details were fictitious, they have formed the basis for references to Anne's appearance even in some modern textbooks.\n\nAnne's experience in France made her a devout Christian in the new tradition of Renaissance humanism. Anne knew little Latin and, trained at a French court, she was influenced by an \"evangelical variety of French humanism\" which led her to champion the vernacular Bible. While she would later hold the reformist position that the papacy was a corrupting influence on Christianity, her conservative tendencies could be seen in her devotion to the Virgin Mary. Anne's European education ended in 1521, when her father summoned her back to England. She sailed from Calais in January 1522.\n\nAnne was recalled to marry her Irish cousin, James Butler, a young man who was several years older than she and who was living at the English court, in an attempt to settle a dispute over the title and estates of the Earldom of Ormond. The 7th Earl of Ormond died in 1515, leaving his daughters, Margaret Boleyn and Anne St Leger, as co-heiresses. In Ireland, the great-great-grandson of the 3rd earl, Sir Piers Butler, contested the will and claimed the Earldom himself. He was already in possession of Kilkenny Castle – the ancestral seat of the earls. Sir Thomas Boleyn, being the son of the eldest daughter, felt the title belonged to him and protested to his brother-in-law, the Duke of Norfolk, who spoke to Henry about the matter. Henry, fearful the dispute could be the spark to ignite civil war in Ireland, sought to resolve the matter by arranging an alliance between Piers's son, James, and Anne Boleyn. She would bring her Ormond inheritance as dowry and thus end the dispute. The plan ended in failure, perhaps because Sir Thomas hoped for a grander marriage for his daughter or because he himself coveted the titles. Whatever the reason, the marriage negotiations came to a complete halt. James Butler later married Lady Joan Fitzgerald, daughter and heiress of James FitzGerald, 10th Earl of Desmond and Amy O'Brien.\n\nMary Boleyn, Anne Boleyn's older sister, had earlier been recalled from France in late 1519, ostensibly for her affairs with the French king and his courtiers. She married William Carey, a minor noble, in February 1520, at Greenwich, with Henry VIII in attendance; soon after, Mary Boleyn became the English King's mistress. Historians dispute Henry VIII's paternity of one or both of Mary Boleyn's children born during this marriage. \"Henry VIII: The King and His Court\", by Alison Weir, questions the paternity of Henry Carey; Dr. G.W. Bernard (\"The King's Reformation\") and Joanna Denny (\"Anne Boleyn: A New Life of England's Tragic Queen\") argue that Henry VIII was their father. Henry did not acknowledge either child, as he did his son Henry Fitzroy, his illegitimate son by Elizabeth Blount, Lady Talboys.\n\nAnne made her début at the \"Château Vert\" (Green Castle) pageant in honour of the imperial ambassadors on 4 March 1522, playing \"Perseverance.\" There she took part in an elaborate dance accompanying Henry's younger sister Mary, several other ladies of the court, and her sister. All wore gowns of white satin embroidered with gold thread. She quickly established herself as one of the most stylish and accomplished women at the court, and soon a number of young men were competing for her.\n\nThe American historian Retha M. Warnicke writes that Anne was \"the perfect woman courtier... her carriage was graceful and her French clothes were pleasing and stylish; she danced with ease, had a pleasant singing voice, played the lute and several other musical instruments well, and spoke French fluently... A remarkable, intelligent, quick-witted young noblewoman... that first drew people into conversation with her and then amused and entertained them. In short, her energy and vitality made her the center of attention in any social gathering.\" Henry VIII's biographer J. J. Scarisbrick adds that Anne \"revelled in\" the attention she received from her admirers.\n\nDuring this time, Anne was courted by Henry Percy, son of the Earl of Northumberland, and entered into a secret betrothal with the young man. Thomas Wolsey's gentleman usher, George Cavendish, maintained the two had not been lovers. If Cavendish is to be believed, their relationship was celibate. The romance was broken off when Percy's father refused to support their engagement. Cardinal Wolsey refused the match for several conjectured reasons. According to Cavendish, Anne was sent from court to her family's countryside estates, but it is not known for how long. Upon her return to court, she again entered the service of Catherine of Aragon. Percy was married to Lady Mary Talbot, to whom he had been betrothed since adolescence.\n\nPrior to her marriage to Henry VIII, Anne had befriended Sir Thomas Wyatt, who was one of the greatest poets of the Tudor reign. In 1520, Wyatt married Elizabeth Cobham, who by many accounts, was not a wife of his choosing. Thus, in 1525, Wyatt charged his wife with adultery and separated from her; coincidentally, historians believe that it was also the year where his interest in Anne intensified. In 1532, Wyatt accompanied the royal couple to Calais in France.\n\nIn 1526, Henry VIII became enamoured with Anne and began his pursuit. Anne was a skillful player at the game of courtly love, which was often played in the antechambers. This may have been how she caught the eye of Henry, who was also an experienced player. Some say that Anne resisted the King's attempts to seduce her, refusing to become his mistress, often leaving court for the seclusion of Hever Castle. But within a year, he proposed marriage to her, and she accepted. Both assumed an annulment could be obtained within a matter of months. There is no evidence to suggest that they engaged in a sexual relationship until very shortly before their marriage; Henry's love letters to Anne suggest that their love affair remained unconsummated for much of their seven-year courtship.\n\nIt is probable that the idea of annulment (not divorce as commonly assumed) had suggested itself to Henry much earlier than this and was motivated by his desire for an heir to secure the Tudor claim to the crown. Before Henry's father Henry VII ascended the throne, England was beset by civil warfare over rival claims to the crown and Henry wanted to avoid a similar uncertainty over the succession. He and Catherine had no living sons: all Catherine's children except Mary died in infancy. Catherine of Aragon had first come to England to be bride to Henry's brother Arthur who died soon after their marriage. Since Spain and England still wanted an alliance, a dispensation was granted by Pope Julius II on the grounds that Catherine was still a virgin.\nThe marriage of Catherine and Henry took place in 1509, but eventually he became dubious about its validity, due to Catherine's inability to provide an heir being seen as a sign of God's displeasure. His feelings for Anne, and her refusals to become his mistress, probably contributed to Henry's decision that no Pope had a right to overrule the Bible. This meant that he had been living in sin with Catherine of Aragon all these years, though Catherine hotly contested this and refused to concede that her marriage to Arthur had been consummated. It also meant that his daughter Mary was a bastard, and that the new Pope (Clement VII) would have to admit the previous Pope's mistake and annul the marriage. Henry's quest for an annulment became euphemistically known as the \"King's Great Matter\".\n\nAnne saw an opportunity in Henry's infatuation and the convenient moral quandary. She determined that she would yield to his embraces only as his acknowledged queen. She began to take her place at his side in policy and in state, but not yet in his bed.\n\nScholars and historians hold various opinions as to how deep Anne's commitment to the Reformation was, how much she was perhaps only personally ambitious, and how much she had to do with Henry's defiance of papal power. There is anecdotal evidence, related to biographer George Wyatt by her former lady-in-waiting Anne Gainsford, that Anne brought to Henry's attention a heretical pamphlet, perhaps Tyndale's \"The Obedience of a Christian Man\" or one by Simon Fish called \"Supplication for Beggars,\" which cried out to monarchs to rein in the evil excesses of the Catholic Church. She was sympathetic to those seeking further reformation of the Church, and actively protected scholars working on English translations of the scriptures. According to Maria Dowling, \"Anne tried to educate her waiting-women in scriptural piety” and is believed to have reproved her cousin, Mary Shelton, for “having 'idle poesies' written in her prayer book.” If Cavendish is to be believed, Anne's outrage at Wolsey may have personalised whatever philosophical defiance she brought with her from France. Further, the most recent edition of Ives's biography admits that Anne may very well have had a personal spiritual awakening in her youth which spurred her on, not just as catalyst but expediter for Henry's Reformation, though the process took a number of years.\n\nIn 1528, sweating sickness broke out with great severity. In London, the mortality rate was great and the court was dispersed. Henry left London, frequently changing his residence; Anne Boleyn retreated to the Boleyn residence at Hever Castle, but contracted the illness; her brother-in-law, William Carey, died. Henry sent his own physician to Hever Castle to care for Anne, and shortly afterwards, she recovered. It soon became the one absorbing object of Henry's desires to secure an annulment from Catherine. Henry had set his hopes upon a direct appeal to the Holy See, acting independently of Cardinal Wolsey, to whom he at first communicated nothing of his plans related to Anne. In 1527 William Knight, the King's secretary, was sent to Pope Clement VII to sue for the annulment of his marriage to Catherine, on the grounds that the dispensing bull of Pope Julius II permitting him to marry his brother's widow, Catherine, had been obtained under false pretences. Henry also petitioned, in the event of his becoming free, a dispensation to contract a new marriage with any woman even in the first degree of affinity, whether the affinity was contracted by lawful or unlawful connection. This clearly referred to Anne.\n\nAs the Pope was, at that time, prisoner of Charles V, the Holy Roman Emperor, as a result of the Sack of Rome in May 1527, Knight had some difficulty obtaining access. In the end he had to return with a conditional dispensation, which Wolsey insisted was technically insufficient. Henry now had no choice but to put his great matter into Wolsey's hands, who did all he could to secure a decision in Henry's favour, even going so far as to convene an ecclesiastical court in England, with a special emissary, Lorenzo Campeggio from the Pope himself to decide the matter. But the Pope never had empowered his deputy to make any decision. The Pope was still a veritable hostage of Charles V, and Charles V was loyal to his aunt, Catherine. The Pope forbade Henry to contract a new marriage until a decision was reached in Rome, not in England. Convinced that Wolsey's loyalties lay with the Pope, not England, Anne, as well as Wolsey's many enemies, ensured his dismissal from public office in 1529. George Cavendish, Wolsey's chamberlain, records that the servants who waited on the king and Anne at dinner in 1529 in Grafton heard her say that the dishonour that Wolsey had brought upon the realm would have cost any other Englishman his head. Henry replied, \"Why then I perceive...you are not the Cardinal's friend.\" Henry finally agreed to Wolsey's arrest on grounds of \"praemunire\". Had it not been for his death from illness in 1530, he might have been executed for treason. A year later in 1531 (fully two years before Henry's marriage to Anne), Queen Catherine was banished from court and her rooms were given to Anne.\n\nPublic support remained with Queen Catherine. One evening in the autumn of 1531, Anne was dining at a manor house on the river Thames and was almost seized by a crowd of angry women. Anne just managed to escape by boat.\n\nWhen Archbishop of Canterbury William Warham died in 1532, the Boleyn family chaplain, Thomas Cranmer, was appointed, with papal approval.\n\nIn 1532, Thomas Cromwell brought before Parliament a number of acts including the Supplication against the Ordinaries and Submission of the Clergy, which recognised royal supremacy over the church, thus finalising the break with Rome. Following these acts, Thomas More resigned as Chancellor, leaving Cromwell as Henry's chief minister.\n\nEven before her marriage, Anne Boleyn was able to grant petitions, receive diplomats and give patronage, and had enormous influence over her future husband to plead the cause of foreign diplomats. The ambassador from Milan wrote in 1531 that it was essential to have her approval if one wanted to influence the English government, a view corroborated by an earlier French ambassador in 1529.\n\nDuring this period, Anne Boleyn played an important role in England's international position by solidifying an alliance with France. She established an excellent rapport with the French ambassador, Gilles de la Pommeraie. Anne and Henry attended a meeting with the French king at Calais in winter 1532, in which Henry hoped to enlist the support of Francis I of France for his intended marriage. On 1 September 1532, Henry granted her \"suo jure\" the Marquessate of Pembroke, an appropriate peerage for a future queen; as such she became a rich and important woman: the three dukes and two marquesses who existed in 1532 were the King's brother-in-law, the King's illegitimate son, and other descendants of royalty; she ranked above all other peeresses. The Pembroke lands and the title of Earl of Pembroke had been held by Henry's great-uncle, and Henry performed the investiture himself.\n\nAnne's family also profited from the relationship. Her father, already Viscount Rochford, was created Earl of Wiltshire. Henry also came to an arrangement with Anne's Irish cousin and created him Earl of Ormond. At the magnificent banquet to celebrate her father's elevation, Anne took precedence over the Duchesses of Suffolk and Norfolk, seated in the place of honour beside the King which was usually occupied by the Queen. Thanks to Anne's intervention, her widowed sister Mary received an annual pension of £100, and Mary's son, Henry Carey, was educated at a prestigious Cistercian monastery.\n\nThe conference at Calais was something of a political triumph, but even though the French government gave implicit support for Henry's remarriage and Francis I himself held private conference with Anne, the French King maintained alliances with the Pope which he could not explicitly defy.\n\nSoon after returning to Dover, Henry and Anne married in a secret ceremony on November 14, 1532. She soon became pregnant and, to legalise the first wedding considered to be unlawful at the time, there was a second wedding service, also private in accordance with The Royal Book, which took place in London on 25 January 1533. Events now began to move at a quick pace. On 23 May 1533, Cranmer (who had been hastened, with the Pope's assent, into the position of Archbishop of Canterbury recently vacated by the death of Warham) sat in judgment at a special court convened at Dunstable Priory to rule on the validity of the King's marriage to Catherine of Aragon. He thereupon declared the marriage of Henry and Catherine null and void. Five days later, on 28 May 1533, Cranmer declared the marriage of Henry and Anne to be good and valid.\n\nCatherine was formally stripped of her title as queen and Anne was consequently crowned queen consort on 1 June 1533 in a magnificent ceremony at Westminster Abbey with a banquet afterwards. She was the last queen consort of England to be crowned separately from her husband. Unlike any other queen consort, Anne was crowned with St Edward's Crown, which had previously been used to crown only a monarch. Historian Alice Hunt suggests that this was done because Anne's pregnancy was visible by then and she was carrying the heir who was presumed to be male. On the previous day, Anne had taken part in an elaborate procession through the streets of London seated in a litter of \"white cloth of gold\" that rested on two palfreys clothed to the ground in white damask, while the barons of the Cinque Ports held a canopy of cloth of gold over her head. In accordance with tradition she wore white, and on her head a gold coronet beneath which her long dark hair hung down freely. The public's response to her appearance was lukewarm.\n\nMeanwhile, the House of Commons had forbidden all appeals to Rome and exacted the penalties of \"praemunire\" against all who introduced papal bulls into England. It was only then that Pope Clement at last took the step of announcing a provisional sentence of excommunication against the King and Cranmer. He condemned the marriage to Anne, and in March 1534, he declared the marriage to Catherine legal and again ordered Henry to return to her. Henry now required his subjects to swear the oath attached to the First Succession Act, which effectively rejected papal authority in legal matters and recognised Anne Boleyn as queen. Those who refused, such as Sir Thomas More, who had resigned as Lord Chancellor, and John Fisher, Bishop of Rochester, were then placed in the Tower of London. In late 1534 parliament declared Henry \"the only supreme head on earth of the Church of England\". The Church in England was now under Henry's control, not Rome's. On 14 May 1534, in one of the realm's first official acts protecting Protestant Reformers, Anne wrote a letter to Thomas Cromwell seeking his aid in ensuring that English merchant Richard Herman be reinstated a member of the merchant adventurers in Antwerp and no longer persecuted simply because he had helped in \"setting forth of the New testament in English.\" Before and after her coronation, Anne protected and promoted evangelicals and those wishing to study the scriptures of William Tyndale. She had a decisive role in influencing the Protestant reformer Matthew Parker to attend court as her chaplain, and prior to her death entrusted her daughter to Parker's care.\n\nAfter her coronation, Anne settled into a quiet routine at the King's favourite residence, Greenwich Palace, to prepare for the birth of her baby. The child was born slightly prematurely on 7 September 1533. Between three and four in the afternoon, Anne gave birth to a girl, who was christened Elizabeth, probably in honour of either or both Anne's mother Elizabeth Howard and Henry's mother, Elizabeth of York. But the birth of a girl was a heavy blow to her parents, since they had confidently expected a boy. All but one of the royal physicians and astrologers had predicted a son for them and the French king had already been asked to stand as his godfather. Now the prepared letters announcing the birth of a \"prince\" had an \"s\" hastily added to them to read \"princes[s]\" and the traditional jousting tournament for the birth of an heir was cancelled.\n\nNevertheless, the infant princess was given a splendid christening, but Anne feared that Catherine's daughter, Mary, now stripped of her title of princess and labelled a bastard, posed a threat to Elizabeth's position. Henry soothed his wife's fears by separating Mary from her many servants and sending her to Hatfield House, where Princess Elizabeth would be living with her own sizeable staff of servants, and where the country air was thought better for the baby's health. Anne frequently visited her daughter at Hatfield and other residences.\n\nThe new queen had a larger staff of servants than Catherine. There were more than 250 servants to tend to her personal needs, everyone from priests to stable-boys, and more than 60 maids-of-honour who served her and accompanied her to social events. She also employed several priests who acted as her confessors, chaplains, and religious advisers. One of these was Matthew Parker, who would become one of the chief architects of Anglican thought during the reign of Anne's daughter, Elizabeth I.\n\nThe king and his new queen enjoyed a reasonably happy accord with periods of calm and affection. Anne Boleyn's sharp intelligence, political acumen and forward manners, although desirable in a mistress, were, at the time, unacceptable in a wife. She was once reported to have spoken to her uncle in words that \"shouldn't be used to a dog\". After a stillbirth or miscarriage as early as Christmas 1534, Henry was discussing with Cranmer and Cromwell the possibility of divorcing her without having to return to Catherine. Nothing came of the issue as the royal couple reconciled and spent summer 1535 on progress. By October, she was again pregnant.\n\nAnne Boleyn presided over a magnificent court. She spent lavish amounts of money on gowns, jewels, head-dresses, ostrich-feather fans, riding equipment, furniture and upholstery, maintaining the ostentatious display required by her status. Numerous palaces were renovated to suit her and Henry's extravagant tastes. Her motto was \"The most happy\", and she had chosen a white falcon as her personal device.\n\nAnne was blamed for the tyranny of her husband's government and was referred to by some of her subjects as \"The king's whore\" or a \"naughty paike [prostitute]\". Public opinion turned further against her following her failure to produce a son. It sank even lower after the executions of her enemies Sir Thomas More and Bishop John Fisher.\n\nOn 8 January 1536, news of Catherine of Aragon's death reached the King and Anne, who were overjoyed. The following day, Henry and Anne wore yellow, the symbol of joy and celebration in England, from head to toe, and celebrated Catherine's death with festivities. In Spain, the home country of Catherine of Aragon, yellow was the colour of mourning, in addition to black. For this reason, the wearing of yellow by Henry and Anne may have been a symbol of mourning. With Mary's mother dead, Anne attempted to make peace with her. Mary rebuffed Anne's overtures, perhaps because of rumours circulating that Catherine had been poisoned by Anne or Henry. These began after the discovery during her embalming that Catherine's heart was blackened. Modern medical experts are in agreement that this was not the result of poisoning, but of cancer of the heart, an extremely rare condition which was not understood at the time.\n\nThe Queen, pregnant again, was aware of the dangers if she failed to give birth to a son. With Catherine dead, Henry would be free to marry without any taint of illegality. At this time Henry began paying court to Jane Seymour. He gave her a locket with a miniature portrait of himself inside and Jane, in the presence of Anne, began opening and shutting it. Anne responded by ripping off the locket with such force her fingers bled.\n\nLater that month, the King was unhorsed in a tournament and knocked unconscious for two hours, a worrying incident that Anne believed led to her miscarriage five days later. Another possible cause of the miscarriage was an incident in which, upon entering a room, Anne saw Jane Seymour sitting on Henry's lap and flew into a rage. Whatever the cause, on the day that Catherine of Aragon was buried at Peterborough Abbey, Anne miscarried a baby which, according to the imperial ambassador Eustace Chapuys, she had borne for about three and a half months, and which \"seemed to be a male child\". Chapuys commented \"She has miscarried of her saviour.\" In Chapuys' opinion, this loss was the beginning of the end of the royal marriage.\n\nGiven Henry's desperate desire for a son, the sequence of Anne's pregnancies has attracted much interest. Author Mike Ashley speculated that Anne had two stillborn children after Elizabeth's birth and before the male child she miscarried in 1536. Most sources attest only to the birth of Elizabeth in September 1533, a possible miscarriage in the summer of 1534, and the miscarriage of a male child, of almost four months gestation, in January 1536. As Anne recovered from her miscarriage, Henry declared that he had been seduced into the marriage by means of \"sortilege\"—a French term indicating either \"deception\" or \"spells\". His new mistress, Jane Seymour, was quickly moved into royal quarters. This was followed by Anne's brother George being refused a prestigious court honour, the Order of the Garter, given instead to Sir Nicholas Carew.\n\nAnne's biographer Eric Ives (and most other historians) believe that her fall and execution were primarily engineered by her former ally Thomas Cromwell. The conversations between Chapuys and Cromwell thereafter indicate Cromwell as the instigator of the plot to remove Anne; evidence of this is seen in the \"Spanish Chronicle\" and through letters written from Chapuys to Charles V. Anne argued with Cromwell over the redistribution of Church revenues and over foreign policy. She advocated that revenues be distributed to charitable and educational institutions; and she favoured a French alliance. Cromwell insisted on filling the King's depleted coffers, while taking a cut for himself, and preferred an imperial alliance. For these reasons, Ives suggests, \"Anne Boleyn had become a major threat to Thomas Cromwell.\" Cromwell's biographer John Schofield, on the other hand, contends that no power struggle existed between Anne and Cromwell and that \"not a trace can be found of a Cromwellian conspiracy against Anne... Cromwell became involved in the royal marital drama only when Henry ordered him onto the case.\" Cromwell did not manufacture the accusations of adultery, though he and other officials used them to bolster Henry's case against Anne. Historian Retha Warnicke questions whether Cromwell could have or wished to manipulate the king in such a matter. Such a bold attempt by Cromwell, given the limited evidence, could have risked his office, even his life. Henry himself issued the crucial instructions: his officials, including Cromwell, carried them out. The result, historians agree, was by more modern standards a legal travesty. However modern lawyers have concluded that the rules of the time were not bent in order to assure Anne Boleyn's conviction; there was no need to tamper with rules that guaranteed the desired result since law at the time, like armies, was an engine of state, not a mechanism for justice.\n\nTowards the end of April a Flemish musician in Anne's service named Mark Smeaton was arrested. He initially denied being the Queen's lover but later confessed, perhaps tortured or promised freedom. Another courtier, Henry Norris, was arrested on May Day, but being an aristocrat, could not be tortured. Prior to his arrest, Norris was treated kindly by the King, who offered him his own horse to use on the May Day festivities. It seems likely that during the festivities, the King was notified of Smeaton's confession and it was shortly thereafter the alleged conspirators were arrested upon his orders. Norris denied his guilt and swore that Queen Anne was innocent; one of the most damaging pieces of evidence against Norris was an overheard conversation with Anne at the end of April, where she accused him of coming often to her chambers not to pay court to her lady-in-waiting Madge Shelton but to herself. Sir Francis Weston was arrested two days later on the same charge, as was William Brereton, a groom of the King's Privy Chamber. Sir Thomas Wyatt, a poet and friend of the Boleyns who was allegedly infatuated with her before her marriage to the king, was also imprisoned for the same charge but later released, most likely due to his or his family's friendship with Cromwell. Sir Richard Page was also accused of having a sexual relationship with the Queen, but he was acquitted of all charges after further investigation could not implicate him with Anne. The final accused was Queen Anne's own brother, George Boleyn, arrested on charges of incest and treason. He was accused of two incidents of incest: November 1535 at Whitehall and the following month at Eltham.\n\nOn 2 May 1536, Anne was arrested and taken to the Tower of London by barge. It is likely that Anne may have entered through the Court Gate in the Byward Tower rather than the Traitors' Gate, according to historian and author of \"The Life and Death of Anne Boleyn\", Eric Ives. In the Tower, she collapsed, demanding to know the location of her father and \"swete broder\", as well as the charges against her.\n\nIn what is reputed to be her last letter to Henry, dated 6 May, she wrote:\n\nFour of the accused men were tried in Westminster on 12 May 1536. Weston, Brereton, and Norris publicly maintained their innocence and only the tortured Smeaton supported the Crown by pleading guilty. Three days later, Anne and George Boleyn were tried separately in the Tower of London, before a jury of 27 peers. She was accused of adultery, incest, and high treason. By the Treason Act of Edward III, adultery on the part of a queen was a form of treason (because of the implications for the succession to the throne) for which the penalty was hanging, drawing and quartering for a man and burning alive for a woman, but the accusations, and especially that of incestuous adultery, were also designed to impugn her moral character. The other form of treason alleged against her was that of plotting the king's death, with her \"lovers\", so that she might later marry Henry Norris. Henry Percy, 6th Earl of Northumberland, sat on the jury that unanimously found Anne guilty. When the verdict was announced, he collapsed and had to be carried from the courtroom. He died childless eight months later and was succeeded by his nephew. According to a 1980 legal review by Schauer and Schauer, \"there is little if any evidence, apart from Smeaton's possible torture, that the rules of the time were in any way bent in order to assure Anne Boleyn's conviction\".\n\nOn 14 May, Cranmer declared Anne's marriage to Henry null and void.\n\nAlthough the evidence against them was unconvincing, the accused were found guilty and condemned to death. George Boleyn and the other accused men were executed on 17 May 1536. William Kingston, the Constable of the Tower, reported Anne seemed very happy and ready to be done with life. Henry commuted Anne's sentence from burning to beheading, and rather than have a queen beheaded with the common axe, he brought an expert swordsman from Saint-Omer in France, to perform the execution. On the morning of 19 May, Kingston wrote:\n\nHer impending death may have caused her great sorrow for some time during her imprisonment. The poem \"Oh Death Rock Me Asleep\" is generally believed to have been authored by Anne and reveals that she may have hoped death would end her suffering.\n\nShortly before dawn, she called Kingston to hear mass with her, and swore in his presence, on the eternal salvation of her soul, upon the Holy Sacraments, that she had never been unfaithful to the king. She ritually repeated this oath both immediately before and after receiving the sacrament of the Eucharist.\n\nOn the morning of Friday, 19 May, Anne Boleyn was executed within the Tower precincts, not upon the site of the execution memorial, but rather, according to historian Eric Ives, on a scaffold erected on the north side of the White Tower, in front of what is now the Waterloo Barracks. She wore a red petticoat under a loose, dark grey gown of damask trimmed in fur and a mantle of ermine. Accompanied by two female attendants, Anne made her final walk from the Queen's House to the scaffold and she showed a \"devilish spirit\" and looked \"as gay as if she was not going to die\". Anne climbed the scaffold and made a short speech to the crowd:\n\nThis version of her speech is found in Foxe's \"Actes and Monuments\" and an almost identical version in Ives (2005). In a 1,318-line poem, written in French, two weeks after Anne's death, Lancelot de Carle provides a moving account of her last words and their effect on the crowd:She gracefully addressed the people from the scaffold with a voice somewhat overcome by weakness, but which gathered strength as she went on. She begged her hearers to forgive her if she had not used them all with becoming gentleness, and asked for their prayers. It was needless, she said, to relate why she was there, but she prayed the Judge of all the world to have compassion on those who had condemned her, and she begged them to pray for the King, in whom she had always found great kindness, fear of God, and love of his subjects. The spectators could not refrain from tears.Lancelot de Carle, a secretary to the French Ambassador, Antoine de Castelnau, was in London in May 1536, and was an eyewitness to her trial and execution. The poem, \"Épistre Contenant le Procès Criminel Faict à l'Encontre de la Royne Anne Boullant d'Angleterre\", \"(A Letter Containing the Criminal Charges Laid Against Queen Anne Boleyn of England),\" provides a detailed account of Anne's early life and the circumstances relating to her arrest, trial and execution. All the accounts are similar. It is thought that Anne avoided criticising Henry to save Elizabeth and her family from further consequences, but even under such extreme pressure Anne did not confess guilt, and indeed subtly implied her innocence, in her appeal to those who might \"meddle of my cause\".\n\nThe ermine mantle was removed and Anne lifted off her headdress, tucking her hair under a coif. After a brief farewell to her weeping ladies and a request for prayers, she kneeled down and one of her ladies tied a blindfold over her eyes. She knelt upright, in the French style of executions. Her final prayer consisted of her repeating continually, \"Jesu receive my soul; O Lord God have pity on my soul.\"\n\nThe execution consisted of a single stroke. It was witnessed by Thomas Cromwell; Charles Brandon, 1st Duke of Suffolk; the King's illegitimate son, Henry Fitzroy; the Lord Mayor of London, as well as aldermen, sheriffs, and representatives of the various craft guilds. Most of the King's Council were also present. Cranmer, who was at Lambeth Palace, was reported to have broken down in tears after telling Alexander Ales: \"She who has been the Queen of England on earth will today become a Queen in heaven.\" When the charges were first brought against Anne, Cranmer had expressed his astonishment to Henry and his belief that \"she should not be culpable.\" Still, Cranmer felt vulnerable because of his closeness to the queen, and so on the night before the execution, he declared Henry's marriage to Anne to have been void, like Catherine's before her. He made no serious attempt to save Anne's life, although some sources record that he had prepared her for death by hearing her last private confession of sins, in which she had stated her innocence before God. On the day of her death, a Scottish friend found Cranmer weeping uncontrollably in his London gardens, saying that he was sure that Anne had now gone to Heaven.\n\nShe was then buried in an unmarked grave in the Chapel of St Peter ad Vincula. Her skeleton was identified during renovations of the chapel in 1876, in the reign of Queen Victoria, and Anne's grave is now identified on the marble floor.\n\nNicholas Sander, a Catholic recusant born c. 1530, was committed to deposing Elizabeth I and re-establishing Catholicism in England. In his \"De Origine ac Progressu schismatis Anglicani\" (\"The Rise and Growth of the Anglican Schism\"), published in 1585, he was the first to write that Anne had six fingers on her right hand. Since physical deformities were generally interpreted as a sign of evil, it is unlikely that Anne Boleyn would have gained Henry's romantic attention had she had any. Upon exhumation in 1876, no abnormalities were discovered. Her frame was described as delicate, approximately 5'3\", with finely formed, tapering fingers.\n\nAnne Boleyn was described by contemporaries as intelligent and gifted in musical arts and scholarly pursuits. She was also strong-willed and proud, and often quarrelled with Henry. Biographer Eric Ives evaluates the apparent contradictions in Anne's persona:\n\nNo contemporary portraits of Anne Boleyn survive. A bust of her was cast on a commemorative medallion in 1534, believed to have been struck to celebrate her second pregnancy.\n\nFollowing the coronation of her daughter as queen, Anne was venerated as a martyr and heroine of the English Reformation, particularly through the works of John Foxe, who argued that Anne had saved England from the evils of Roman Catholicism and that God had provided proof of her innocence and virtue by making sure her daughter Elizabeth I ascended the throne. An example of Anne's direct influence in the reformed church is what Alexander Ales described to Queen Elizabeth as the \"evangelical bishops whom your holy mother appointed from among those scholars who favoured the purer doctrine\". Over the centuries, Anne has inspired or been mentioned in numerous artistic and cultural works. As a result, she has remained in the popular memory and has been called \"the most influential and important queen consort England has ever had.\"\n\nBecause of Anne's early exposure to court life, she had powerful influences around her for most of her life. These early influences were mostly aristocratic women, who were engaged with art, history, and religion. Eric Ives described the women around Anne as \"aristocratic women seeking spiritual fulfillment\". They included Queen Claude, of whose court Anne was a member, and Marguerite of Angoulême, who was a well known figure during the Renaissance and held strong religious views that she portrayed in the arts through poetry. These women along with Anne's immediate family members, such as her father Thomas Boleyn, may have had large influences on Anne's personal faith.\n\nAnother clue into Anne's personal faith could be found in Anne's book of hours, in which she wrote, \"le temps viendra\" [\"the time will come\"]. Alongside this inscription she drew an astrolabe, which at the time was a symbol of the Renaissance. The inscription implies that Anne was a Renaissance woman, exposed to new ideas and thoughts relating to her faith since it was written in her book of hours.\n\nAnne Boleyn's last words before her beheading was a prayer for her salvation, her king, and her country. She said, \"Good Christian people! I am come hither to die, for according to the law, and by the law, I am judged to death; and therefore I will speak nothing against it. I come hither to accuse no man, nor to any thing of that whereof I am accused and condemned to die; but I pray God save the king, and send him long to reign over you, for a gentler, or a more merciful prince was there never; and to me he was ever a good, a gentle, and a sovereign lord..\" John Foxe, martyrologist, included Anne in his book, \"Foxes book of Martyrs\", advocating Anne to be a goodly woman who had sincere faith and trust in her God. Foxe also believed a sign of her good faith was God's blessing unto Anne's offspring, Elizabeth I, and allowing her daughter to prosper as queen.\nMany legends and fantastic stories about Anne Boleyn have survived over the centuries. One is that she was secretly buried in Salle Church in Norfolk under a black slab near the tombs of her ancestors. Her body was said to have rested in an Essex church on its journey to Norfolk. Another is that her heart, at her request, was buried in Erwarton (Arwarton) Church, Suffolk by her uncle Sir Philip Parker.\n\nIn 18th-century Sicily, the peasants of the village of Nicolosi believed that Anne Boleyn, for having made Henry VIII a heretic, was condemned to burn for eternity inside Mount Etna. This legend was often told for the benefit of foreign travellers.\n\nA number of people have claimed to have seen Anne's ghost at Hever Castle, Blickling Hall, Salle Church, the Tower of London, and Marwell Hall. The most famous account of her reputed sighting has been described by paranormal researcher Hans Holzer. In 1864, Major General J.D. Dundas of the 60th Rifles regiment was quartered in the Tower of London. As he was looking out the window of his quarters, he noticed a guard below in the courtyard, in front of the lodgings where Anne had been imprisoned, behaving strangely. He appeared to challenge something, which to the General \"looked like a whitish, female figure sliding towards the soldier\". The guard charged through the form with his bayonet, then fainted. Only the General's testimony and corroboration at the court-martial saved the guard from a lengthy prison sentence for having fainted while on duty. In 1960, Canon W. S. Pakenham-Walsh, vicar of Sulgrave, Northamptonshire, reported having conversations with Anne.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52085335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52085335", "title": "Ballot selfie", "text": "Ballot selfie\n\nA ballot selfie is a type of selfie that is intended to depict the photographer's completed ballot in an election, as a way of showing how the photographer cast his or her vote. Despite their increasing use in democratic countries during the 2010s, they have been found to violate laws enacted in the late 19th and early 20th centuries to curtail vote buying, particularly in the United States. No voter has been prosecuted for taking a ballot selfie, however, and one U.S. federal appeals court has found that such laws are a violation of the U.S. Constitution's First Amendment guarantees of freedom of speech.\n\nAs Internet-connected mobile devices that include digital cameras have become more widespread, as has social media, there has been a marked increase in the number of digital self-portraits. Voters sometimes take a selfie that includes their ballot to encourage others to vote and to demonstrate their civic involvement. The selfie is often taken in or near a voting booth and the ballot paper is often marked. Sometimes absentee ballots are posted. Others do not take pictures of themselves in the voting booth, but photograph their ballots or the voting machines, either before or after filling them out.\n\nSeveral concerns have arisen over ballot selfies, including compromising ballot secrecy, voter fraud, and voter intimidation. These have led to laws being passed prohibiting or restricting ballot selfies in some places. However, enforcement is quite low in most places, even where strict laws exist, due to the high number of people involved in the act, the resources needed to conduct strict enforcement, and the low negative effect of the action. Typically, law enforcement does not scour social media for violations that occur en masse. Authorities only take violations seriously if they are associated with voter fraud or intimidation or a vote-buying scheme.\n\nLaws regarding ballot selfies vary by country and jurisdiction, often with laws varying by jurisdiction even within a country.\n\nBrazil's election laws ensure the secrecy of the vote; therefore, taking any photos of the voting machine (or, for that matter, using any electronic device while voting) is a crime subject to prison and a fine of up to R$15 thousand.\n\nElections Canada has encouraged voters to take selfies outside polling stations but cautioned against photos of marked ballots, as the Canada Elections Act makes it illegal to \"show [a] ballot, when marked\".\n\nIn federal elections for the Bundestag, taking a ballot selfie in the voting booth was prohibited in 2017\nto preserve ballot secrecy and make vote buying and voter intimidation more difficult. If the voting commission notices a voter taking a ballot selfie, the ballot paper is not accepted. The voter will then be given a new ballot paper on request after destroying the old one.\n\nBallot selfies are called \"stemfies\" in Dutch, literally \"votefies\". A platform for the protection of the rights of civilians sued the Dutch government in 2014 when minister of the interior and kingdom relations Ronald Plasterk said \"I won't encourage anyone to take a ballot selfie, but it is allowed\". The judge ruled that there is no law regarding ballot selfies and that it would not be up to the judge to say if it was wise of the minister to make statements the way he did.\n\nIn the United States, there is no federal law regarding ballot selfies, leaving the matter to the individual states. Some U.S. states prohibit ballot selfies, imposing fines or jail terms for violations, while other states have no prohibition.\n\nThe American Civil Liberties Union and others have questioned the constitutionality of prohibiting ballot selfies, arguing that they violate the First Amendment's free speech guarantee. Others, such as election-law expert Richard L. Hasen, consider such statutes to be \"narrowly tailored ... to prevent vote buying\" and thus constitutional, and argue that \"without the ballot-selfie ban, we could see the reemergence of the buying and selling of votes — and even potential coercion from employers, union bosses and others.\" Supporters of ballot selfies, by contrast, argue that the taking and sharing of such photos is positive for democracy; for example, law professor Paul Bender has suggested that selfies might increase voter turnout.\n\nIn Tennessee, entertainer Justin Timberlake came under fire for a ballot selfie he took, though the state did not take legal action.\n\nIndiana's ban was enjoined on October 19, 2015 by a preliminary injunction by the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Indiana. \n\nNew Hampshire's ban on ballot selfies was ruled facially unconstitutional by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the First Circuit in September 2016 in the case \"Rideout v. Gardner\". The case was brought by the ACLU, with the support of the Reporters Committee for Freedom of the Press and Snapchat, which were among the groups filing amicus briefs in support of the challenge. The court held that the statute's stated justification, to prevent vote-buying or voter coercion, was not sufficient to sustain the restriction on speech, because \"digital photography, the Internet, and social media are not unknown quantities -- they have been ubiquitous for several election cycles, without being shown to have the effect of furthering vote buying or voter intimidation.\" The court thus determined that New Hampshire's law \"is facially unconstitutional even applying only intermediate scrutiny\" due to the \"substantial mismatch between New Hampshire's objectives and the ballot-selfie prohibition.\" The state sought review by the Supreme Court, but in April 2017 the Court refused to hear the case, leaving the First Circuit's decision intact. \n\nMichigan's ban was enjoined by a preliminary injunction in late October 2016 by the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Michigan, but that injunction was stayed in early November 2016 by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, which in a 2-1 decision allowed the ban to remain in place. \n\nNew York's ban on photographing and displaying marked ballots, first enacted in 1890, was upheld in a September 2017 decision in the case \"Silberberg v. Board of Elections\" by the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York. Applying strict scrutiny, the court held that the state had a compelling interest in preventing vote buying and voter coercion and that the law was narrowly tailored to meet this interest.\n\nMost state laws making it a crime to photograph marked ballots were enacted as reform efforts in the early 20th century, as part of a broader campaign that saw the introduction of the secret ballot and the enactment of \"other laws intended to prevent voter corruption and intimidation.\" Many such laws remain in force even though \"the outright buying of votes has receded as a significant issue.\"\n\nJurisdictions that currently prohibit ballot selfies are: Alabama, Alaska, Colorado, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Kansas, Massachusetts, Michigan, Mississippi, Nevada, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, North Carolina, South Carolina, South Dakota, and Wisconsin. Illinois's laws are the strictest of all. While most states with anti-ballot selfie laws make the offense a misdemeanor punishable by a fine, in Illinois, taking a ballot selfie is a felony punishable by 1–3 years in prison.\n\nJurisdictions that currently allow ballot selfies or do not enforce laws against them are: Connecticut, Hawaii, Idaho, Indiana, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maine, Minnesota, Montana, Nebraska, New Hampshire, North Dakota, Oregon, Rhode Island, Utah, Vermont, Virginia, Washington, Wyoming, and the District of Columbia. \n\nJurisdictions where the law is currently unclear are: Arizona, Arkansas, California, Delaware, Iowa, Maryland, Missouri, Ohio, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Texas, and West Virginia.\n\nSouth Africa's Independent Electoral Commission takes a hardline approach toward marked ballot selfies.\n"}
{"id": "27658876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27658876", "title": "Batavian Republic constitutional referendum, 1798", "text": "Batavian Republic constitutional referendum, 1798\n\nA constitutional referendum was held in the Batavian Republic in 1798. After a previous referendum in 1797 resulted in a coup d'état, a new constitution was written. On 23 April 1798, a referendum was held about the new constitution. Only opponents of the federalists were allowed to vote.\n\nAfter the referendum, a new coup d'état was done by the Unitarians, and the constitution became effective in July 1798. The French, who had a big influence in the Batavian Republic, were not satisfied with the 1798 constitution, so a new constitution was written, for which a referendum in 1801 was organized.\n"}
{"id": "36773733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36773733", "title": "Bergregal", "text": "Bergregal\n\nThe Bergregal () was the historic right of ownership of untapped mineral resources in parts of German-speaking Europe; ownership of the \"Bergregal\" meant entitlement to the rights and royalties from mining. Historically, it was one of those privileges that constituted the original sovereign rights of the king.\n\nIn addition to the \"Bergregal\", another important sovereign privilege was the \"Münzregal\" or \"minting rights\", which was a consequence of the \"Bergregal\" since coins were minted near the mines from which their metal was obtained.\nIn the early days of the Roman Empire, the landowner had the right to extract minerals. The reason behind this was that mineral resources were seen as \"fruit of the soil\" which were deemed to belong the landowner. The first regalia, or royal privileges, emerged in the first millennium, but there was still no \"Bergregal\" governing mining rights as part of the laws regulating property. Emperors and kings, the nobility or clerics who ruled over a territory, established this right for themselves, based on their ownership of land and the mineral resources found therein. This was easy for the king or territorial princes because, as a rule, they were the actual landowners. But it was often political and economic circumstances rather than law and statute that were instrumental in the establishment of the \"Bergregal\".\nThe Emperor, Barbarossa, had the \"Bergregal\" recorded in writing for the first time in Germany as part of the Roncaglian Constitution in 1158. This effectively removed the right to extract minerals from the landowner who, from then on, had to purchase such rights from the king. As a result of the Roncaglian Constitution, mining rights passed over time into the hands of the territorial lords. This led to arbitrary presumptions of rights by these territorial princes. Because of \"Kleinstaaterei\" – the plethora of minor states – and the special position of ecclesiastical principalities in the Holy Roman Empire, enforcement of the \"Bergregal\" by the emperor was virtually impossible. and so, in many cases, it was given to the princes. For example, Frederick I vested this privilege in Otto the Rich, the Margrave of Meissen. Likewise, the Bishop of Chur was given the \"Bergregal\" in 1349 and the King of Bohemia already received these rights even before the Golden Bull was issued.\n\nIn 1356, the Golden Bull finally enshrined in writing that these rights were ultimately held, not by the emperor, but by the seven electoral princes (the archbishops of Cologne, Mainz and Trier, the King of Bohemia, the Count Palatine of the Rhine, the Duke of Saxony, Margrave of Brandenburg) as his territorial lords. Existing grants of rights to lower-ranking lords were unaffected. In general, the electoral princes were keen to retain the \"Bergregal\" for themselves.\n\nThe Treaty of Westphalia in 1648, saw the rights of the \"Bergregal\" pass from the electoral princes to the lesser nobility. To enforce their mining rights, the territorial lords had mining regulations enacted, the so-called \"Bergordnung\", which regulated in detail the mining activities, the duties or tithes (the \"Zehnt\"), the structure of the mining authorities and the privileges of the miners themselves.\nIn the 19th century the \"Bergregal\" in the German states was gradually superseded by mining acts or \"Berggesetze\". In Prussia, the \"Bergregal\" was ended by the General Mining Act for the Prussian States (\"Allgemeine Berggesetz für die Preußischen Staaten\") or ABG of 24 June 1865. Landowners' rights were removed and mining regulations were clearly defined in the \"Berggesetz\". This process began with the Napoleonic conquests, when French law was temporarily enacted in many parts of Germany, and was largely completed with the adoption of the General Mining Act of the Kingdom of Saxony (\"Allgemeinen Berggesetzes für das Königreich Sachsen\") on 16 June 1868.\n\nAs a result of the \"Bergregal\", there was a legal separation of property ownership and mining rights. Local landowners were only left with exploration and mining rights for a few unimportant minerals. The territorial prince, on the other hand, had three options by which he could exercise his rights under the \"Bergregal\":\n\n\nThe first opportunity for mining to be operated for the benefit of the state came in those countries in which mining was regulated by free declaration (\"Freierklärung\"). But here, the ruler had to have explicitly renounced his rights to the exploitation of natural resources. In practice, no German state – indeed no European state – had a monopoly over mining rights.\n\nThe way mining rights were granted went back to the days of feudalism. However, mining privileges was not just granted to certain individuals, but also to entire estates or towns. In particular, towns involved in the mining industry for a long time were given special privileges and rights. One of these was the granting of the \"freedom to mine\" (\"Bergfreiheit\"), with its associated privileges, to the miners and burghers of the towns. These privileges were intended to support the mining industry and growth of the towns. However, this freedom was not part of the \"Bergregal\"; it was based, in the German states at least, on the old mining constitutions. In these constitutions, the \"Bergregal\" was exercised through the declaration of such freedom. It was also quite common for all three options described above to be used simultaneously in the same state.\n\nSpecifically which minerals were governed by the \"Bergregal\" varied from state to state, but generally there were two categories: the \"upper\" or \"higher\" \"Bergregal\" and the \"lower\" \"Bergregal\". The upper \"Bergregal\", which covered the mining of precious metals (gold and silver), but could include salt and precious stones remained, almost without exception, in the hands of the state rulers. Precious stones and salt were not part of the upper \"Bergregal\" in all countries, however. The lower \"Bergregal\" covered the mining of base metals, like iron, tin, copper, cobalt, lead and bismuth, as well as the minerals arsenic, sulphur, saltpetre and antimony. In many cases these rights were awarded to a third party or granted to landowners under the mining regulations (\"Bergordnung\").\n\nThe mining of bituminous coal, brown coal and peat did not initially come under the \"Bergregal\"; instead ownership remained with the landowners because these resources were classed as fossil fuels. But the territorial lords very quickly realised that coal mining was potentially very lucrative and, as a result, the \"Bergregal\" was soon extended to cover coal too. Peat cutting continued to fall outside the \"Bergregal\", as did the quarrying of gravel, clay, marl and limestone. These minerals were the property of the landowners. In the Prussian states, semi-precious stones and precious stones were not part of the \"Bergregal\" if they were lying loose in a field or were brought to light in the course of economic activity such as ploughing.\n\nIssues inevitably arose over the \"Bergregal\". In states where specific resources were not governed by a mining act (\"Bergrecht\"), but were now regulated by a newly introduced \"Bergregal\", there was serious opposition from the mining companies. They did not initially want to denounce their ownership in order to lease the right to mine or to have to lease their mine property. In addition, new taxes, such as the mine tithe and special mine duties like the so-called \"Quatembergeld\", led to unrest amongst the mine operators. The introduction of coal tithes frequently led to disputes. To pay the coal tithe, 10 per cent of coal production had to be separated into special heaps. This coal had to be sold first, the profit going to the territorial lords. This coal was often stolen by night. As a result, the mining companies had to be supervised by mining authorities (\"Bergbehörde\"). In the mining fields of the Mark of Brandenburg, there was such unrest that the military had to intervene.\n\nOther problems were caused by the location of the ore deposits. If a deposit extended over two territories, there could be disagreements at the state border. The mining operators often ended up in conflict. Because different organizations were responsible on either side of the border, there was the question of which mining jurisdiction (mining court or \"Berggericht\") was responsible for handling a case. These disputes could adversely affect the relationship between the territorial princes as well as the local mining industry. The situation was aided slightly, if the powers of one mining court were greater than those of the other.\n\nThe \"Bergregal\" represented a considerable source of income for its owner. The entitlement to a fixed percentage (usually 10%) of the commodity (in the early days of mining usually salt or ore) from each pit, (the so-called mine tithe, \"Bergzehnt\" or \"Fron\") formed the basis for the wealth of the great rulers, for example, in the Electorate of Hanover and Duchy of Saxony, helping to finance their expensive royal households. The owner of the \"Bergregal\" also had the option of first refusal. This effectively resulted in a monopoly. In this way, many regions laid the economic foundations for their future development and the territorial lords and princes showed great interest in the promotion of the mines in their lands, whether through advances, grants or joint construction, because a decline in the mining industry could result in an empty treasury.\n\nFollowing the end of the \"Bergregal\", mining acts were introduced in the individual states to govern the extraction of mineral resources. In Germany the exploration and extraction of natural resources is governed by the Federal Mining Act (\"Bundesberggesetz\"). The Austrian equivalent is the Raw Materials Act (\"Mineralrohstoffgesetz\"). In Switzerland, the exploration and mining of minerals is regulated by the Swiss \"Bergregal\". In 1649, ten courts in Graubünden broke away from Austrian rule. At that time it was already laid down that mining rights under the \"Bergregal\" lay with the landowner. This regulation is still in force today.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8578845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8578845", "title": "Charter of the Forest", "text": "Charter of the Forest\n\nThe Charter of the Forest of 1217 () is a charter that re-established for free men rights of access to the royal forest that had been eroded by William the Conqueror and his heirs. Many of its provisions were in force for centuries afterwards. It was originally sealed in England by the young King Henry III, acting under the regency of William Marshall, 1st Earl of Pembroke. It was in many ways a companion document to the Magna Carta, and redressed some applications of the Anglo-Norman Forest Law that had been extended and abused by William Rufus.\n\n'Forest' to the Normans meant an enclosed area where the monarch (or sometimes another aristocrat) had exclusive rights to animals of the chase and the greenery (\"vert\") on which they fed. It did not consist only of trees, but included large areas of heathland, grassland and wetlands, productive of food, grazing and other resources. Lands became more and more restricted as King Richard and King John designated greater and greater areas as royal forest. At its widest extent, royal forest covered about one-third of the land of southern England. Thus it became an increasing hardship on the common people to try to farm, forage, and otherwise use the land they lived on. \n\nThe Charter of the Forest was first issued on 6 November 1217 at St Paul's Cathedral, London as a complementary charter to the Magna Carta from which it had evolved. It was reissued in 1225 with a number of minor changes to wording, and then was joined with Magna Carta in the Confirmation of Charters in 1297.\nAt a time when royal forests were the most important potential source of fuel for cooking, heating and industries such as charcoal burning, and of such hotly defended rights as pannage (pasture for their pigs), estover (collecting firewood), agistment (grazing), or turbary (cutting of turf for fuel), this charter was almost unique in providing a degree of economic protection for free men who used the forest to forage for food and to graze their animals. In contrast to Magna Carta, which dealt with the rights of barons, it restored to the common man some real rights, privileges and protections against the abuses of an encroaching aristocracy. For many years it was regarded as a development of great significance in England's constitutional history, with the great seventeenth-century jurist Sir Edward Coke referring to it along with Magna Carta as the Charters of England's Liberties, and Sir William Blackstone remarking in the eighteenth century that \"There is no transaction in the antient part of our english history more interesting and important, than . . . the charters of liberties, emphatically stiled THE GREAT CHARTER and CHARTER OF THE FOREST . . . .\"\n\nThe first chapter of the Charter protected common pasture in the forest for all those \"accustomed to it\", and chapter nine provided for \"every man to agist his wood in the forest as he wishes\". It added \"Henceforth every freeman, in his wood or on his land that he has in the forest, may with impunity make a mill, fish-preserve, pond, marl-pit, ditch, or arable in cultivated land outside coverts, provided that no injury is thereby given to any neighbour.\". The Charter restored the area classified as \"forest\" to that of Henry II's time. \n\nClause 10 repealed the death penalty (and mutilation as a lesser punishment) for capturing deer (venison), though transgressors were still subject to fines or imprisonment. Special Verderers' Courts were set up within the forests to enforce the laws of the Charter.\n\nBy Tudor times, most of the laws served mainly to protect the timber in royal forests. However, some clauses in the Laws of Forests remained in force until the 1970s, and the special courts still exist in the New Forest and the Forest of Dean. In this respect, the Charter was the statute that remained longest in force in England (from 1217 to 1971), being finally superseded by the Wild Creatures and Forest Laws Act 1971.\n\nTo mark 800 years of the Charter of the Forest, in 2017 the Woodland Trust and more than 50 other cross-sector organisations joined forces to create and launch a Charter for Trees, Woods and People, reflecting the modern relationship with trees and woods in the landscape for people in the UK.\n\nOnly two copies of the 1217 Charter of the Forest survive, belonging to Durham Cathedral and Lincoln Cathedral. The Lincoln copy is normally on display in the David P J Ross Magna Carta Vault in Lincoln Castle, together with the Lincoln copy of Magna Carta. A manuscript of the 1225 reissue narrowly escaped destruction in 1865 and is now available in the British Library (Add. Ch. 24712).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13812435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13812435", "title": "Circular 230", "text": "Circular 230\n\nCircular 230 refers to Treasury Department Circular No. 230. This publication establishes the rules governing those who practice before the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (IRS), including attorneys, certified public accountants (CPAs) and enrolled agents\n(EAs).\n\nThe rules in Circular 230 also prohibit certain conduct. Penalties may be imposed for noncompliance. \"Circular 230 is a hybrid document containing the rules, regulations, ethical/conduct provisions, and disciplinary procedures that apply to those who practice before the IRS.\" The rules in Circular 230 are codified as Title 31 of the Code of Federal Regulations, Subtitle A, Part 10 (31 C.F.R. Part 10).\n\nCircular 230 was first published in 1921, and some of its provision became more well known as a result of amendments made in 2005.\n\nThe statutory authority for Circular 230 was 31 U.S.C. § 330. That statute authorizes the IRS to “regulate the practice of representatives of persons before the Department of the Treasury.” 31 U.S.C. § 330(a)(1). The language now codified as Section 330 was originally enacted in 1884 as part of a War Department appropriation for “horses and other property lost in the military service.”\n\nSee, e.g., H.R. Rep. No. 82-2518, at 13 (1953); H.R. Rep. No. 89-1141, at 3 (1965) (“In imposing admission requirements on prospective practitioners, the Internal Revenue Service is acting under authority of the Act of July 7, 1884.”).\n\nThe Treasury’s practice rules “are designed to protect the Department and the public from persons unfit to practice before the IRS.”\n\nUntil the year 2011, anyone in the United States could legally engage in the business of preparing a federal tax return. The rules were changed effective January 1, 2011, and for a time imposed certain requirements on individuals engaging in the business of preparing U.S. federal tax returns. These new rules were struck down, however, by the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia in the \"Loving\" case, a decision upheld by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia \n\nIn general, only attorneys, CPAs, enrolled agents, or enrolled actuaries or enrolled retirement plan agents may represent clients in proceedings before the IRS. Representing clients includes all communication with the IRS in regard to client matters without the client present. Exceptions permit unenrolled preparers to represent taxpayers during examination only for returns they prepared themselves. The rules permit family members to represent each other, employees to represent their employer, officers to represent corporations, and certain other types of representation.\n\nPersons preparing returns or giving tax advice must:\n\nIn addition to the above, those giving tax advice must follow certain procedural rules in giving the advice. Written tax advice must not be based on unreasonable factual or legal assumptions or unreasonably rely upon representations of the client or others. It must consider all relevant facts and law.\n\nCircular 230 contains rules of conduct in preparing tax returns. Persons preparing tax returns must not:\n\nSection 10.27 of Circular 230 has traditionally included restrictions on contingent fee arrangements between taxpayers and their representatives. In July 2014, however, those restrictions were struck down by the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia \"with respect to the preparation and filing of Ordinary Refund Claims, where 'preparation and filing' precedes the inception of any examination or adjudication of the refund claim by the IRS and any formal legal representation on the part of the practitioner.\" The Court ordered that the government was permanently prohibited from enforcing the applicable restrictions in Circular 230.\n\nSection 10.51 lists other types of misconduct including:\n\nAccording to a 2011 report by the Internal Revenue Service Advisory Council (\"IRSAC\") Office of Professional Responsibility (\"OPR\")\nSubgroup, Circular 230 sets forth ethical standards which are generally meant to apply to \"willful\" misconduct. Willful misconduct is generally described as \"the intentional violation of a known legal duty.\" Willful misconduct is therefore distinguishable from misconduct which is merely negligent, mistaken or inadvertent. The Internal Revenue Manual recognizes this distinction by requiring that Internal Revenue Code Section 6694(a) (\"understatement due to unreasonable positions\") referrals to OPR be based upon a \"pattern\" of misconduct. A \"pattern\" of misconduct is the legally recognized sign or indicator of willfulness. Thus, according to IRSAC, Circular 230 is not intended to be utilized as an enforcement tool for isolated acts of incompetence or disreputable conduct. Instead, it is intended to more broadly protect the tax system from those practitioners who have demonstrated a clear pattern of failing to meet generally recognized standards of professional conduct.\n\nAny person other than an officer or employee of the Internal Revenue Service having information of a violation of any provision of Circular 230 may make an oral or written report of the alleged violation to OPR or any officer or employee of the Internal Revenue Service. If the report is made to an officer or employee of the Internal Revenue Service, the officer or employee will make a written report of the suspected violation and submit the report to OPR.\n\nIf an officer or employee of the Internal Revenue Service has reason to believe a practitioner has violated any provision of Circular 230, the officer or employee will promptly make a written report of the suspected violation on Form 8484, Report of Suspected Practitioner Misconduct. The report will explain the facts and reasons upon which the officer’s or employee’s belief rests and must be submitted to OPR. \"Such reports are required by section 10.53(a) of the regulations governing practice, which are set out at 31 C.F.R. Part 10, and are published in pamphlet form as Treasury Department Circular No. 230.\"\n\nTax preparers and advisers who violate Circular 230 may be subject to penalties. These include monetary penalties as well as potential suspension from practice before the IRS. The rules also provide procedures for disciplinary proceedings.\n\nPeriodically, the Internal Revenue Bulletin lists an announcement of disciplinary sanctions for the Office of Professional Responsibility.\n\n"}
{"id": "32694628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32694628", "title": "CommLaw Conspectus", "text": "CommLaw Conspectus\n\nThe \"CommLaw Conspectus: Journal of Communications Law and Technology Policy\" is a biannual student-run journal of legal scholarship published by The Catholic University of America, Columbus School of Law.\n\nThe \"CommLaw Conspectus\" publishes scholarly articles that discuss recent developments in communications law and policy. A typical issue contains three to four lead articles written by communications law scholars and practitioners and three to four student notes and comments. In addition, \"CommLaw Conspectus\" periodically publishes essays, book reviews, a bibliography of recent communications law books, and summaries of major communications law cases and U.S. Federal Communications Commission (FCC) dockets.\n\nRecent Issues of the \"CommLaw Conspectus\" have featured prefaces written by former FCC Chairman Michael K. Powell, Congressman Henry A. Waxman. and FTC Commissioner Maureen K. Ohlhausen.\n\n\"CommLaw Conspectus\" is a student-edited journal. Membership is determined solely by students' participation in a journal writing competition. Student's articles submitted through the journal writing competition are judged by the editorial staff, which considers factors such as legal analysis, argumentation, writing style, and citation format. Students chosen for membership serve one year as associates and may serve an additional year as members of the editorial staff.\n\nThe \"CommLaw Conspectus\", in collaboration with the Institute for Communications Law Studies, hosts a yearly symposium on a select issue related to communications law and policy.\n"}
{"id": "15165654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15165654", "title": "Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting 1989", "text": "Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting 1989\n\nThe Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting 1989 was the eleventh Meeting of the Heads of Government of the Commonwealth of Nations. It was held in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, between 18 October 1989 and 24 October 1989, and was hosted by that country's Prime Minister, Mahathir Mohamad.\n\nThe Langkawi Declaration on the Environment was agreed and issued at the CHOGM.\n"}
{"id": "1044885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1044885", "title": "Community Reinvestment Act", "text": "Community Reinvestment Act\n\nThe Community Reinvestment Act (CRA, P.L. 95-128, 91 Stat. 1147, title VIII of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1977, \"et seq.\") is a United States federal law designed to encourage commercial banks and savings associations to help meet the needs of borrowers in all segments of their communities, including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods. Congress passed the Act in 1977 to reduce discriminatory credit practices against low-income neighborhoods, a practice known as redlining.\n\nThe Act instructs the appropriate federal financial supervisory agencies to encourage regulated financial institutions to help meet the credit needs of the local communities in which they are chartered, consistent with safe and sound operation () To enforce the statute, federal regulatory agencies examine banking institutions for CRA compliance, and take this information into consideration when approving applications for new bank branches or for mergers or acquisitions ()\nThe Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 sought to address discrimination in loans made to individuals and businesses from low and moderate-income neighborhoods. The Act mandates that all banking institutions that receive Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) insurance be evaluated by Federal banking agencies to determine if the bank offers credit (in a manner consistent with safe and sound operation as per and ) in all communities in which they are chartered to do business. The law does not list specific criteria for evaluating the performance of financial institutions. Rather, it directs that the evaluation process should accommodate the situation and context of each individual institution. Federal regulations dictate agency conduct in evaluating a bank's compliance in five performance areas, comprising twelve assessment factors. This examination culminates in a rating and a written report that becomes part of the supervisory record for that bank.\n\nThe law, however, emphasizes that an institution's CRA activities should be undertaken in a safe and sound manner, and does not require institutions to make high-risk loans that may bring losses to the institution. An institution's CRA compliance record is taken into account by the banking regulatory agencies when the institution seeks to expand through merger, acquisition or branching. The law does not mandate any other penalties for non-compliance with the CRA.\n\nThe same banking agencies that are responsible for supervising depository institutions are also the agencies that conduct examinations for CRA compliance. These agencies are the Federal Reserve System (FRB), the FDIC, and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC). In 1981, to help achieve the goals of the CRA, each of the Federal Reserve banks established a Community Affairs Office to work with banking institutions and the public in identifying credit needs within the community and ways to address those needs.\n\nImplementation of the CRA by these financial supervisory agencies is enacted by Title 12 of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR); Parts 25, 228, 345, and 563e with the addition of Part 203 as it relates to sections of the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act (HMDA).\n\nThe Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC) coordinates inter-agency information about the CRA. Information about the CRA ratings of individual banking institutions from the three responsible agencies (Federal Reserve, FDIC, and OCC), is publicly available from the website of the FFIEC. These ratings were first made available by the Clinton administration to enable public participation and public comment on CRA performance.\n\nIn addition to the regulatory framework in place, each federal financial supervisory agency's Inspector General performs regular audits on any regulatory changes made to see if the intended goals are actually being fulfilled.\n\nThe original Act was passed by the 95th United States Congress and signed into law by President Jimmy Carter on October 12, 1977 (, ). The CRA was passed as a result of national pressure to address the deteriorating conditions of American cities—particularly lower-income and minority neighborhoods.\n\nCommunity activists, such as Gale Cincotta of National People's Action in Chicago, led the national fight to pass, and later to enforce the Act. Several legislative and regulatory revisions have since been enacted. \n\nThe CRA followed similar laws passed to reduce discrimination in the credit and housing markets including the Fair Housing Act of 1968, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act of 1974 and the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act of 1975 (HMDA). The Fair Housing Act and the Equal Credit Opportunity Act prohibit discrimination on the basis of race, sex, or other personal characteristics. The Home Mortgage Disclosure Act requires that financial institutions publicly disclose mortgage lending and application data. In contrast with those acts, the CRA seeks to ensure the provision of credit to all parts of a community, regardless of the relative wealth or poverty of a neighborhood.\n\nBefore the Act was passed, there were severe shortages of credit available to low- and moderate-income neighborhoods. In their 1961 report, the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights found that African-American borrowers were often required to make higher downpayments and adopt faster repayment schedules. The commission also documented blanket refusals to lend in particular areas (redlining).\n\nThe allegations of \"redlining\" certain neighborhoods originated with the Federal Housing Administration in the 1930s. The \"residential security maps\" created by the Home Owners' Loan Corporation (HOLC) for the FHA were used by private and public entities for years afterwards to withhold mortgage capital from neighborhoods that were deemed \"unsafe\". Contributory factors in the shortage of direct lending in low- and moderate-income communities were a limited secondary market for mortgages, informational problems to do with the lack of credit evaluations for lower-income borrowers, and lack of coordination among credit agencies.\n\nIn Congressional debate on the Act, critics charged that the law would create unnecessary regulatory burdens. Partly in response to these concerns, Congress included little prescriptive detail and simply directs the banking regulatory agencies to ensure that banks and savings associations serve the credit needs of their local communities in a safe and sound manner. Community groups only slowly organized to take advantage of their right under the Act to complain about law enforcement of the regulations.\n\nThe hidden table below lists the acts of Congress that affected the Community Reinvestment Act directly. The years in which the legislative revisions were made appear in bold text preceding the Public Laws that enacted them. The links to the \"codification\" and \"section notes\" may provide additional information about the legislative changes as well.\nThe Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act of 1989 (FIRREA) was enacted by the 101st Congress and signed into law by President George H. W. Bush in the wake of the savings and loan crisis of the 1980s. As part of the subsequent general reform of the banking industry, FIRREA added section 807 (12. U.S.C. § 2906) to the existing CRA statutes in an effort to improve the area concerning insured depository institution examinations.\n\nThe new language now required the appropriate Federal regulatory agency to prepare a written evaluation after completing the examination of an institution's record in meeting the credit needs of its entire community, including any low- and moderate-income neighborhoods within it. These evaluation reports were divided into separate sections - one confidential; allowing the evaluated institution to retain its proprietary and personal information integrity at the same time the beginnings of the related databases were being compiled, and the other made public; intended to increase access and oversight of the CRS examination process. The public section introduced a four-tiered CRA examination rating system with performance levels of 'Outstanding', 'Satisfactory', 'Needs to Improve', or 'Substantial Noncompliance', each supplemented with a written synopsis of the agencies' evaluation reasoning using any available facts to support their conclusions.\n\nAccording to Ben Bernanke, this law greatly increased the ability of advocacy groups, researchers, and other analysts to \"perform more-sophisticated, quantitative analyses of banks' records\", thereby influencing the lending policies of banks. Over time, community groups and nonprofit organizations established \"more-formalized and more-productive partnerships with banks.\"\n\nAround the time of the introduction of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 (FDICIA), the appropriate Federal regulatory agencies had reliably compiled enough institution examination data to warrant its inclusion in the public section of the written evaluations first established in 1989. With the passage of this Act in December 1991, section 807 (12. U.S.C. § 2906) was amended to require the inclusion of any examination data relevant in determining an institutions CRA rating as well.\n\nA week earlier that same December, the existing CRA statute was amended once again upon the enactment of the Resolution Trust Corporation Refinancing, Restructuring, and Improvement Act of 1991. It allowed the Resolution Trust Corporation (RTC) to make available any branch of any savings association located in any predominantly minority neighborhoods that the RTC had been appointed the conservator or receiver of to any minority depository institution or women's depository institution with favorable conditions. Upon the addition of section 808 (12. U.S.C. § 2907) to the existing CRA statutes by the Act, any depository institution which donated, sold with favorable terms (as determined by the appropriate Federal financial supervisory agency), or made available on a rent-free basis any branch of such institutions located in any predominantly minority neighborhood to any minority depository institution or women's depository institution, the amount of the contribution or the amount of the loss incurred in connection with such activity would go towards meeting the credit needs of the institution's community and would be taken into consideration when CRA examinations were evaluated.\n\nAlthough minor amendments were made directly to the Community Reinvestment Act concerning the during evaluations first established in 1991, other portions of the Federal Housing Enterprises Financial Safety and Soundness Act of 1992 \"indirectly\" affected the CRA practices at the time in requiring Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the two government sponsored enterprises that purchase and securitize mortgages, to devote a percentage of their lending to support affordable housing.\n\nThe Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act of 1994, which repealed restrictions on interstate banking, listed the \"Community Reinvestment Act\" ratings received by the out-of-state bank as a consideration when determining whether to allow interstate branches.\n\nAccording to Bernanke, a surge in bank merger and acquisition activities followed the passing of the act, and advocacy groups increasingly used the public comment process to protest bank applications on \"Community Reinvestment Act\" grounds. When applications were highly contested, federal agencies held public hearings to allow public comment on the bank's lending record. In response many institutions established separate business units and subsidiary corporations to facilitate CRA-related lending. Local and regional public-private partnerships and multi-bank loan consortia were formed to expand and manage such CRA-related lending.\n\nIn July 1993, President Bill Clinton asked regulators to reform the CRA in order to make examinations more consistent, clarify performance standards, and reduce cost and compliance burden.\n\nRobert Rubin, the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, under President Clinton, explained that this was in line with President Clinton's strategy to \"deal with the problems of the inner city and distressed rural communities\". Discussing the reasons for the Clinton administration's proposal to strengthen the CRA and further reduce red-lining, Lloyd Bentsen, Secretary of the Treasury at that time, affirmed his belief that availability of credit should not depend on where a person lives, \"The only thing that ought to matter on a loan application is whether or not you can pay it back, not where you live.\" Bentsen said that the proposed changes would \"make it easier for lenders to show how they're complying with the Community Reinvestment Act\", and \"cut back a lot of the paperwork and the cost on small business loans\".\n\nBy early 1995, the proposed CRA regulations were substantially revised to address criticisms that the regulations, and the agency's implementation of them through the examination process to date, were too process-oriented, burdensome, and not sufficiently focused on actual results. The CRA examination process itself was reformed to incorporate the pending changes. Information about banking institutions' CRA ratings was made available via web page for public review as well. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) also moved to revise its regulation structure allowing lenders subject to the CRA to claim community development loan credits for loans made to help finance the environmental cleanup or redevelopment of industrial sites when it was part of an effort to revitalize the low- and moderate-income community where the site was located.\n\nDuring one of the Congressional hearings addressing the proposed changes in 1995, William A. Niskanen, chair of the Cato Institute, criticized both the 1993 and 1994 sets of proposals for political favoritism in allocating credit, for micromanagement by regulators and for the lack of assurances that banks would not be expected to operate at a loss to achieve CRA compliance. He predicted the proposed changes would be very costly to the economy and the banking system in general. Niskanen believed that the primary long-term effect would be an artificial contraction of the banking system. Niskanen recommended Congress repeal the \"Act\".\n\nNiskanen's, and other respondents to the proposed changes, voiced their concerns during the public comment & testimony periods in late 1993 through early 1995. In response to the aggregate concerns recorded by then, the Federal financial supervisory agencies (the OCC, FRB, FDIC, and OTS) made further clarifications relating to definition, assessment, ratings and scope; sufficiently resolving many of the issues raised in the process. The agencies jointly reported their final amended regulations for implementing the \"Community Reinvestment Act\" in the Federal Register on May 4, 1995. The final amended regulations replaced the existing CRA regulations in their entirety. (See the notes in the \"1995\" column of Table I. for the specifics)\n\nIn 1999 the Congress enacted and President Clinton signed into law the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, also known as the \"Financial Services Modernization Act\". This law repealed the part of the Glass–Steagall Act that had prohibited a bank from offering a full range of investment, commercial banking, and insurance services since its enactment in 1933. A similar bill was introduced in 1998 by Senator Phil Gramm but it was unable to complete the legislative process into law. Resistance to enacting the 1998 bill, as well as the subsequent 1999 bill, centered around the legislation's language which would expand the types of banking institutions of the time into other areas of service but would not be subject to CRA compliance in order to do so. The Senator also demanded full disclosure of any financial \"deals\" which community groups had with banks, accusing such groups of \"extortion\".\n\nIn the fall of 1999, Senators Dodd and Schumer prevented another impasse by securing a compromise between Sen. Gramm and the Clinton Administration by agreeing to amend the \"Federal Deposit Insurance Act\" () to allow banks to merge or expand into other types of financial institutions. The FDIC related provisions of the new \"Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act\", along with the addition of sub-section § 2903(c) directly to Title 12, insured any bank holding institution wishing to be re-designated as a financial holding institution by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System would also have to follow \"Community Reinvestment Act\" compliance guidelines before any merger or expansion could take effect.\n\nAt the same time the \"G-L-B Act's\" changes to the \"Federal Deposit Insurance Act\" would now allow for bank expansions into new lines of business, non-affiliated groups entering into agreements with these bank or financial institutions would also have to be reported as outlined under the newly added section to Title 12, § 1831y (CRA Sunshine Requirements), to satisfy Gramm's concerns.\n\nIn conjunction with the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act changes, smaller banks would be reviewed less frequently for CRA compliance by the addition of §2908. (Small Bank Regulatory Relief) directly to , (the existing CRA laws), itself. The 1999 Act also mandated two studies to be conducted in connection with the \"Community Reinvestment Act\":\n\nOn signing the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, President Clinton said that it, \"establishes the principles that, as we expand the powers of banks, we will expand the reach of the [Community Reinvestment] Act\".\n\nIn 2002 there was an inter-agency review of the effectiveness of the 1995 regulatory changes to the Community Reinvestment Act and new proposals were considered. In 2003, researchers at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York noted that dramatic changes in the financial services landscape had weakened the CRA, and that in 2003 less than 30 percent of all home purchase loans were subject to intensive review under the CRA.\n\nIn early 2005, the Office of Thrift Supervision (OTS) implemented new rules that – among other changes – allowed thrifts with over $1 billion in assets to tweak the long-standing 50-25-25 CRA ratings thresholds by continuing to meet 50 percent of their overall CRA rating through lending activity as always but the other 50 percent could be any combination of lending, investment, and services that the thrift wanted. The obligations to adhere to 25 percent for services and 25 percent for investments became optional and the means to securing a satisfactory CRA rating was left to the discretion of the qualifying thrifts instead (See the notes in the \"2005\" column of Table I. for the specifics).\n\nIn April 2005, a contingent of Democratic Congressmen issued a letter protesting these changes, saying they undercut the ability of the CRA to \"meet the needs of low and moderate-income persons and communities\". The changes were also opposed by community groups concerned that it would weaken the CRA.\n\nAfter enacting a technical regulatory amendment in the interim incorporating a different formula for stratifying both metropolitan and rural zones to better align with an expanded definition of them under the CRA in the process, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (FRB), and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) also put a new set of regulations into effect in September 2005 - mirroring much of what the OTS had already initiated earlier in the year (See the notes in the \"2005\" column of Table I for specifics). These regulations also included less restrictive definitions of \"small\" and \"intermediate small\" banks. \"Intermediate small banks\" were defined as banks with assets of less than $1 billion but more than $250 million, which allowed these banks to opt for examination as either as a small bank or a large bank. Currently banks with assets greater than $1.061 billion have their CRA performance evaluated according to lending, investment and service tests. The agencies use the Consumer Price Index to adjust the asset size thresholds for small and large institutions annually.\n\nThe Office of Thrift Supervision (OTS) proposed revising and started to solicit public comment regarding the complete alignment of its CRA rule with the CRA rules of the other three federal banking agencies in November 2006. The agency referenced several factors for the proposed realignment, in particular, that a consistent CRA standard applied to both the banking and the thrift industries would facilitate objective evaluations of CRA performance; ensure accurate assessments of banks and thrifts that operated in the same markets; and permit the public to make reasonable comparisons of bank and thrift CRA performance.\n\nOTS Director at the time, John Reich announced the final decision to go ahead and implement the proposed revisions in four main areas of its existing \"Community Reinvestment Act\" (CRA) regulations to reestablish uniformity between its rules and those of the other federal banking agencies. Reaffirming the basis for the revised rules as first proposed, Reich stated, \"OTS is making these revisions to promote consistency and facilitate objective evaluations of CRA performance across the banking and thrift industries. Consistent standards will allow the public to make more effective comparisons of bank and thrift CRA performance.\" He noted the changes reinforce CRA objectives consistent with thrifts' performance in meeting the financial services needs of their communities.\n\nThis OTS rule revision aligned with that of the other agencies by:\n\nThese four changes generally mirror the ones made by the other three federal agencies in late 2005. The agency noted that latitude would be provided for a short period of time to institutions in the context of examinations conducted after the effective date, July 1, 2007, in order to implement program changes under the new rule smoothly.\n\nWith the passage of the Higher Education Opportunity Act into law, , on August 14, 2008, each appropriate Federal financial supervisory agency shall now consider, as a factor in assessing and taking into account the record of a financial institution's CRA compliance, any & all low-cost education loans provided by the financial institution to low-income borrowers. All the affected Federal financial supervisory agencies have one year after the date of enactment to issue rules in final form to implement the change into the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) according to Title X, Subtitle C, Section 1031 of the Act. \nCRA is responsible for the repackaging of sub-prime mortgages and credit agencies complicit in rating them AA concluding in the 2008 mortgage crises. \n\nIn 2007, Ben Bernanke suggested further increasing the presence of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in the affordable housing market to help banks fulfill their CRA obligations by providing them with more opportunities to securitize CRA-related loans.\n\nOn February 13, 2008, the United States House Committee on Financial Services held a hearing on the Community Reinvestment Act's impact on the provision of loans, investments and services to under-served communities and its effectiveness. There were 15 witnesses from government and the private sector.\n\nOn April 15, 2008, an FDIC official told the same committee that the FDIC was exploring offering incentives for banks to offer low-cost alternatives to payday loans. Doing so would allow them favorable consideration under their Community Reinvestment Act responsibilities. It had recently begun a two-year pilot project with an initial group of 31 banks.\n\nCongresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson introduced new legislation -- () -- on March 12, 2009 to expand the scope of CRA to include non-bank financial institutions, such as credit unions. There were other attempts to legislatively \"modernize\" the Community Reinvestment Act in previous sessions of Congress, such as in / and , among others. The United States House Committee on Financial Services held hearings on September 16, 2009 on \"Proposals to Modernize the Community Reinvestment Act\" with 10 witnesses, including Johnson. Another hearing was held on April 15, 2010 on \"Perspectives and Proposals on the Community Reinvestment Act\" with eight witnesses.\n\nOn June 24, 2010, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC), Federal Reserve System, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), and the Office of Thrift Supervision (OTS) jointly published proposed revisions to the rules implementing the Community Reinvestment Act. These agencies, with the National Credit Union Administration (NCUA), make up the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC), which coordinates regulation of financial institutions, including implementation of the Community Reinvestment Act. The proposed revisions to CRA rules are intended to revise the term \"community development\" to \"include loans, investments and services that support, enable or facilitate projects or activities\" that meet the criteria described in the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008 (HERA) and are conducted in designated target areas identified under the Neighborhood Stabilization Program established by HERA and the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (ARRA). Among other things, this would expand the range of persons served to include middle-income households. \n\nIn 2009, The Federal Reserve Banks of Boston and San Francisco published \"Revisiting the CRA: Perspectives on the Future of the Community Reinvestment Act\", which assembles views from a wide range of academic researchers, regulators, community development practitioners and financial service industry representatives on how to improve the CRA going forward. \n\nThe Obama administration has increased scrutiny of the provision of credit to poor and African American neighbourhoods. Lenders have come under investigation for not operating in such areas, whether they have halted service there or have never operated in them before. Former \"Atlantic\" associate editor Daniel Indiviglio attributes increasing noncompliance with the CRA to the tightening of lending requirements.\n\nSome economists have questioned if the CRA was – or at least had become – irrelevant, because it was not needed to encourage banks to make profitable loans to a variety of borrowers. In a 2003 research paper, economists at the Federal Reserve could not find clear evidence that the CRA increased lending and home ownership more in low income neighborhoods than in higher income ones. A 2008 Competitive Enterprise Institute study resulted in a similar finding.\n\nFormer Federal Reserve chair Ben Bernanke has stated that an underlying assumption of the CRA – that more lending equals better outcomes for local communities – may not always be true, pointing to \"recent problems in mortgage markets\". However, he notes that at least in some instances, \"the CRA has served as a catalyst, inducing banks to enter under-served markets that they might otherwise have ignored\".\n\nThe Woodstock Institute, a Chicago-based policy and advocacy nonprofit, found in an analysis of 1996 Chicago-area survey data that low income areas still lagged behind in access to commercial loans. Most small business loans made by CRA regulated banks went to higher income areas; 16.6% in low-income areas, 18.4% in low- and moderate-income tracts; 21.8% in middle-income areas and 23.1% in upper-income areas.\n\nIn a 1998 paper, Alex Schwartz of the Fannie Mae Foundation found that CRA agreements were \"consistently successful in meeting their goals for mortgages, investments in low-income housing tax credits, grant giving to community-based organizations, and in opening (and keeping open) inner-city bank branches.\" In a 2000 report for the US Treasury, several economists concluded that the CRA had the intended impact of improving access to credit for minority and low-to-moderate-income consumers.\n\nIn a 2005 paper for the \"New York University Law Review\", Michael S. Barr, professor at the University of Michigan Law School, presented evidence to demonstrate that the CRA had overcome market failures to increase access to credit for low-income, moderate-income, and minority borrowers at relatively low cost. He contends that the CRA is justified, has resulted in progress, and should be continued.\n\nSpeaking to the February 2008 Congressional Committee on Financial Services hearing on the CRA, Sandra L. Thompson, Director of the Division of Supervision and Consumer Protection at the FDIC, lauded the positive impact of CRA, noting that, \"studies have pointed to increases in lending to low- and moderate-income customers and minorities in the decades since the CRA's passage.\" She cited a study by the Joint Center for Housing Studies at Harvard University, that found that \"data for 1993 through 2000 show home purchase lending to low- and moderate-income people living in low- and moderate-income neighborhoods grew by 94 percent – more than in any of the other income categories\".\n\nIn his statement before the same hearing, New York University economics professor Larry White stated that regulator efforts to \"lean on\" banks in vague and subjective ways to make loans is an \"inappropriate instrument for achieving those goals\". In a world of national banking enterprises, these policies are more likely to drive institutions out of neighborhoods. He stated that better ways to accomplish the goals would be vigorous enforcement of anti-discrimination laws, of antitrust laws to promote competition, and federal funding of worthy projects directly through an \"on-budget and transparent process\" like the Community Development Financial Institutions Fund.\n\nAccording to a 2012 study \"credit markets enabled a substantial fraction of Hispanic families to live in neighbourhoods with fewer black families, even though a substantial fraction of black families were moving to more racially integrated areas. The net effect is that credit markets increased racial segregation\".\n\nAccording to a 2000 United States Department of the Treasury study of lending trends in 305 U.S. cities between 1993 and 1998, $467 billion in mortgage credit flowed from CRA-covered lenders to low- and medium-income borrowers and areas. In that period, the total number of loans to poorer Americans by CRA-eligible institutions rose by 39% while loans to wealthier individuals by CRA-covered institutions rose by 17%. The share of total US lending to low and medium income borrowers rose from 25% in 1993 to 28% in 1998 as a consequence.\n\nResponding to concerns that the CRA would lower bank profitability, a 1997 research paper by economists at the Federal Reserve found that \"[CRA] lenders active in lower-income neighborhoods and with lower-income borrowers appear to be as profitable as other mortgage-oriented commercial banks\".\n\nConcerns at the time over the 1995 regulatory change causing an increase in the inability of financial institutions to expand through mergers or acquisition due to regulatory denial based on poor CRA compliance were unfounded. Over the 1993-97 period, one regulatory agency, the Federal Reserve Board, actually approved more applications than the average percentages of those without a detailed CRA review taking place. Of the 1,100 merger or acquisition cases the FRB reviewed on average per year where the relevant institutions were subject to CRA, only 70 instances on average were identified with potential CRA problems regardless of public opposition or internal reporting raising the concern. On average, 22 of these were ultimately identified as CRA compliance being the primary reason for both application withdrawal or FRB denial.\n\nIn October 1997, First Union Capital Markets and Bear, Stearns & Co launched the first publicly available securitization of Community Reinvestment Act loans, issuing $384.6 million of such securities. The securities were guaranteed by Freddie Mac and had an implied \"AAA\" rating. The public offering was several times oversubscribed, predominantly by money managers and insurance companies who were not buying them for CRA credit.\n\nIn October 2000, to expand the secondary market for affordable community-based mortgages and to increase liquidity for CRA-eligible loans, Fannie Mae committed to purchase and securitize $2 billion of \"MyCommunityMortgage\" loans. In November 2000 Fannie Mae announced that the Department of Housing and Urban Development (\"HUD\") would soon require it to dedicate 50% of its business to low- and moderate-income families.\" It stated that since 1997 Fannie Mae had done nearly $7 billion in CRA business with depository institutions, but its goal was $20 billion. In 2001 Fannie Mae announced that it had acquired $10 billion in specially-targeted Community Reinvestment Act (CRA) loans more than one and a half years ahead of schedule, and announced its goal to finance over $500 billion in CRA business by 2010, about one third of loans anticipated to be financed by Fannie Mae during that period.\n\nSpeaking in 2007, the 30th anniversary of the CRA, Ben Bernanke, Chair of the Federal Reserve System since 2006, stated that the high costs of gathering information, \"may have created a 'first-mover' problem, in which each financial institution has an incentive to let one of its competitors be the first to enter an underserved market\". Bernanke notes that at least in some instances, \"the CRA has served as a catalyst, inducing banks to enter underserved markets that they might otherwise have ignored\". In the same 2007 speech, Bernanke also noted that, \"managers of financial institutions found that these loan portfolios, if properly underwritten and managed, could be profitable\" and that the loans \"usually did not involve disproportionately higher levels of default\".\n\nCRA regulations give community groups the right to comment on or protest banks' purported non-compliance with CRA. Such comments could help or hinder banks' planned expansions. Groups at first only slowly took advantage of these rights. Regulatory changes during the Clinton administration allowed these community groups better access to CRA information and enabled them to increase their activities.\n\nIn an article for the \"New York Post\", economist Stan Liebowitz wrote that community activists' intervention at yearly bank reviews resulted in their obtaining large amounts of money from banks, since poor reviews could lead to frustrated merger plans and even legal challenges by the Justice Department. Michelle Minton noted that Chase Manhattan and J.P. Morgan donated hundreds of thousands of dollars to ACORN around the same time they were to apply for permission to merge and needed to comply with CRA regulations.\n\nAccording to \"The New York Times\", some of these housing advocacy groups provided early warnings about the potential impact of lowered credit standards and the resulting unsupportable increase in real estate values they were causing in low to moderate income communities. Ballooning mortgages on rental properties threatened to require large rent increases from low and moderate income tenants that could ill afford them.\n\nAccording to \"Inner City Press\", \"Bronx-based Fair \"Finance Watch\" commented to the Federal Reserve about the practices of now-defunct non-bank subprime lender New Century, when U.S. Bancorp bought warrants for 24% of New Century's stock. The Fed, rather than take any action on New Century, merely waited until U.S. Bancorp sold off some of the warrants, and then said the issue was moot.\" However, subprime loans were so profitable, that they were aggressively marketed in low-and moderate-income communities, even over the objections and warnings of housing advocacy groups like ACORN.\n\nIn a 2002 study exploring the relationship between the CRA and lending looked at as predatory, Kathleen C. Engel and Patricia A. McCoy noted that banks could receive CRA credit by lending or brokering loans in lower-income areas that would be considered a risk for ordinary lending practices. CRA regulated banks may also inadvertently facilitate these lending practices by financing lenders. They noted that CRA regulations, as then administered and carried out by Fannie Mae and Freddie MAC, did not penalize banks that engaged in these lending practices. They recommended that the federal agencies use the CRA to sanction behavior that either directly or indirectly increased predatory lending practices by lowering the CRA rating of any bank that facilitated in these lending practices.\n\nThe FDIC has tried to address this issue by \"stopping abusive practices through the examination process and supervisory actions; encouraging banks to serve all members and areas of their communities fairly; and providing information and financial education to help consumers make informed choices\". FDIC policy currently states that \"predatory lending can have a negative effect on a bank's CRA performance.\"\n\nCompetition also played a part in lending practices. In order to gain market share lenders lowered their standards.\n\nEconomist Stan Liebowitz wrote in the \"New York Post\" that a strengthening of the CRA in the 1990s encouraged a loosening of lending standards throughout the banking industry. He charged the Federal Reserve with ignoring the negative impact of the CRA. According to Manhattan Institute scholar Howard Husock, the CEO of a midsize bank reported that 20% of his institution's CRA-related mortgages were delinquent in their first year and probably 7% would end in foreclosure. In a commentary for CNN, Congressman Ron Paul, who serves on the United States House Committee on Financial Services, charged the CRA with \"forcing banks to lend to people who normally would be rejected as bad credit risks.\" In a \"The Wall Street Journal\" opinion piece, economist Russell Roberts wrote that the CRA subsidized low-income housing by pressuring banks to serve poor borrowers and poor regions of the country.\n\nOther economists have examined the issue and concluded that the CRA did not contribute to the financial crisis, notably \"The New York Times\" columnist and Nobel laureate Paul Krugman, Tim Westrich of the Center for American Progress, Robert Gordon of the American Prospect, Ellen Seidman of the New America Foundation, Daniel Gross of \"Slate\", Dean Baker of The Center For Economic and Policy Research, and Aaron Pressman from \"BusinessWeek\". Law professor Michael S. Barr, a Treasury Department official under President Clinton, stated that approximately 50% of subprime loans were made by independent mortgage companies that were not regulated by the CRA, and another 25% to 30% came from only partially CRA regulated bank subsidiaries and affiliates. Barr noted that institutions fully regulated by CRA made \"perhaps one in four\" sub-prime loans, and that \"the worst and most widespread abuses occurred in the institutions with the least federal oversight\".\n\nAccording to American Enterprise Institute fellow Edward Pinto, Bank of America reported in 2008 that its CRA portfolio, which constituted 7% of its owned residential mortgages, was responsible for 29 percent of its losses. He charged that \"approximately 50 percent of CRA loans for single-family residences ... [had] characteristics that indicated high credit risk\", yet, per the standards used by the various government agencies to evaluate CRA performance at the time, were not counted as \"subprime\" because borrower credit worthiness was not considered. Krugman argues that Pinto's category of \"other high-risk mortgages\" incorrectly includes loans that were not high-risk, that instead were like traditional conforming mortgages. Gene Epstein of Barron's disputed Krugman's claims and those of the article he cited as erroneous and misleading. Another CRA critic, Joseph Fried, concedes that \"some of this CRA subprime lending might have taken place, even in the absence of CRA. For that reason, the direct impact of CRA on the volume of subprime lending is not certain.\" A study by the economists, Agarwal, Benmelich, and Bergman, found that banks undergoing CRA-related regulatory exams took additional mortgage lending risk.\n\nThe Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission formed by the US Congress in 2009 to investigate the causes of the 2008 financial crisis, concluded \"the CRA was not a significant factor in subprime lending or the crisis\". Ben Bernanke, then Chairman of the Federal Reserve, wrote that experience and research contradict \"the charge that CRA was at the root of, or otherwise contributed in any substantive way to, the current mortgage difficulties.\" Government economists and officials, including Janet Yellen, then President and CEO of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, FDIC Chair Sheila Bair, Comptroller of the Currency John C. Dugan, and Federal Reserve Governor Randall Kroszner, also hold that the CRA did not significantly contribute to the subprime crisis. According to Yellen, former Chair of the Federal Reserve, independent mortgage companies made risky \"higher-priced\" loans at more than twice the rate of the banks and thrifts; most CRA loans were responsibly made, and were not the \"higher-priced\" loans that have contributed to the current crisis. During a 2008 House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform hearing on the role of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in the financial crisis, including in relation to the Community Reinvestment Act, when asked if the CRA provided the \"fuel\" for increasing subprime loans, former Fannie Mae CEO Franklin Raines said it might have been a catalyst encouraging bad behavior, but it was difficult to know. Raines also cited information that only a small percentage of risky loans originated as a result of the CRA.\n\nIn 2015, Federal Reserve Board economists Neil Bhutta and Daniel Ringo released a summary of available studies on both sides of the debate. They found that any impact of the CRA on risk was mitigated by the extraordinarily small market share that CRA eligible loans held in comparison with non-CRA eligible mortgage lending.\n\n\nNotes\n"}
{"id": "3500548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3500548", "title": "Confession (law)", "text": "Confession (law)\n\nIn the law of criminal evidence, a confession is a statement by a suspect in crime which is adverse to that person. Some secondary authorities, such as Black's Law Dictionary, define a confession in more narrow terms, \"e.g.\" as \"a statement admitting or acknowledging all facts necessary for conviction of a crime,\" which would be distinct from a mere admission of certain facts that, if true, would still not, by themselves, satisfy all the elements of the offense. The equivalent in civil cases is a statement against interest.\n\nThis specific form of testimony, involving oneself, is used as a form of proof in judicial matters, since at least the Inquisition. The value of confessions, however, are discussed, and law generally request cross-checking them with objective facts and others forms of evidence (exhibits, testimonies from witnesses, etc.) in order to evaluate their truth value. Confessions were first developed in the Roman Catholic Church under the Sacrament of Penance, where the confession of a sin is considered to be enough to absolve oneself. This aspect concerning moral guilt has been carried on in various legislative codes, in which a criminal is considered worse if he does not confess to his crimes.\n\nIn Japan, the legal requirements dictate that confession is admissible as evidence only if it contains elements only the guilty could have known. However, many miscarriage of justice cases in Japan are due to the police faking the confession of guilty secrets.\n\nOn one hand, confessions obtained under torture have often been considered to be not objective enough, since the use of such means may lead to the suspect in confessing anything. However, when the confession reveals secrets only known to the perpetrator (such as the location of the body or murder weapon), the confession is reliable.\n\nOn the other hand, even without torture, various cases of avered false confessions demonstrate that, in itself, one man's confession is not a sufficient proof. False memory (including memory biases, etc.) or privileges granted under plea bargaining might lead to such false confessions.\n\nConfession evidence can be considered, arguably, the best piece of evidence of guilt in the criminal justice system. However, false confessions do occur, therefore there must be some flaws in the interrogation process. In a scientific article “Confession Evidence: Commonsense Myths and Misconceptions” by author Saul M. Kassin, 5 myths in the confession evidence system were identified. These myths are 1) Trained interviewers can detect truth and deception, 2) Miranda protects the accused from interrogation, 3) People do not confess to crimes they don't commit, 4) Police, prosecutors, judges, and juries can distinguish true and false confessions and 5) It is possible to determine whether a false confession error was harmless.\n\nIn the case of trained interviewers, many interrogation teams are practiced in the “Reid technique”, which identifies behavioral cues common for a guilty suspect including slouching, fidgeting, and avoiding eye contact. These cues have not been empirically validated to demonstrate deception in scientific studies. In terms of the Miranda, it has been found that innocent suspects are more likely to waive their rights than those who are guilty, so therefore Miranda rights in most cases do not protect accused innocents from interrogation (article 1). Through the use of minimization, when an investigator justifies the crime with possible excuses to make it easier to confess to, and the use of the false evidence ploy, mentioning evidence that proves the suspect guilty (which actually does not exist), many innocent people end up confessing to crimes they have not committed. Most people can't recognize a false confession, because confessions are trusted and a jury or judge would see confessing to a crime in which the suspect did not commit as something against self-interest, which in most people's minds does not make sense. In terms of how harmless a false confession is, it has been shown that confessions can affect other pieces of evidence and the way they are presented, which can affect a judge or jury's perception of guilt. Through debunking these myths it can be demonstrated that confessions can not be the be all end all in a criminal investigation, and the criminal justice system should implement more tactics and procedures that prevent false confessions from occurring.\n\nIn English law a confession includes:\nany statement wholly or partly adverse to the person who made it, whether made to a person in authority or not and whether made in words or otherwise.\n\nA confession may be admitted in evidence so long as it is relevant to any matter in issue and not excluded under the court's discretion.\n\nThe court must exclude evidence:\n\nThe court may exclude evidence:\n\nUnder section 76, following a representation by the defendant or upon the court's own motion, evidence tendered by the prosecution must not be admitted if it was or may have been obtained:\n\nWhether or not evidence was obtained in such circumstances will be decided by a judge sitting without a jury in a \"voir dire\".\n\nOppression includes torture, inhumane and degrading treatment and the use or threat of violence. Oppression imports \"some impropriety... actively applied in an inappropriate manner by the police\"\n\nUnder the second limb, a judge is not to consider whether the confession made was truthful, but rather whether, under the circumstances, \"whatever was said or done, was, in the circumstances existing as at the time of the confession, \"likely\" to have rendered such a confession unreliable, whether or not it may be seen subsequently - with hindsight and in the light of all the material available at trial - that it did or did not actually do so\". The question of whether some action has rendered a question unreliable centers on whether it is likely to have made an innocent person confess, or even (equivalently) to have made a guilty person confess to more than their actual crime.\n\n\"Anything said or done\" is not limited to the actions of the police, but does not include things said or done by the accused. However, the circumstances existing at the time do include the accused's own mental state and capacities.\n\nThe court may exclude evidence under section 76A of the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984. Following a representation by the defendant or upon the court's own motion, evidence tendered by a co-defendant of a defendant's confession must not be admitted unless the co-defendant proves \"on the balance of probabilities\" that it was not obtained:\n\nThe common law rules on the admission of confessions are preserved, and apply so long as the statement was made voluntarily. Under the common law, where a statement is made in the presence of the accused, by a person with whom the accused is on even terms, upon an occasion which should be expected reasonably to call for some explanation or denial from him, the accused's acceptance of that statement, including by giving an insufficient explanation or by acquiescence. In deciding whether to put the matter to the jury, the judge should ask:\n(1) could a jury properly directed conclude that the defendant adopted the statement in question?\n\nIf so, (2) is that matter of sufficient relevance to justify its introduction in evidence?\n\nIf so, (3) would the admission of the evidence have such an adverse effect on the fairness of the proceedings that the judge ought not to admit it?\n\nCanadian common law on confessions is derived directly from English decisions and legal principles. There are some differences including the Charter of Rights and Freedoms that give an accused person more rights.\n\nThe crown must prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the accused confessed \"voluntarily\" or the confession will be excluded from evidence by the judge. The legal term voluntary has a different meaning than the everyday meaning of voluntary.\n\nThe crown will be looking to prove the absence of threats, direct or veiled, by the police. Threats will almost certainly render the confession involuntary. This can include threats to arrest or interrogate other persons close to the accused. Promises or inducements made in the form of a quid pro quo (like a confession in exchange for ignoring a more serious charge) will also often result in an inadmissible confession.\n\nGenerally, police are allowed to lie by claiming to claim to have evidence, like DNA evidence that does not exist. If police lies cause the suspect to say anything that implicates themselves in the crime the confession would be admitted into evidence. See R. v. Oickle.\n\nIn India, \"forcefully\" obtaining confession is \"unconstitutional\".\n\nThis was reaffirmed on 5 May 2010 by the Supreme Court of India in the case \"Smt. Selvi vs. State of Karnataka\" in which it was held that Narcoanalysis, polygraph (also called Lie-detector) and brain mapping tests to be unconstitutional as they violate .\n\nConfessions have been used extensively in Italy since the creation of the \"pentito\" status. Adriano Sofri, for example, has been given a life-sentence exclusively on the words of one \"pentito\".\n\nIn the 1936 case \"Brown v. Mississippi\", the United States Supreme Court ruled that convictions which are based solely upon confessions coerced by violence violate the Due Process Clause.\n\n"}
{"id": "1921807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1921807", "title": "Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment in a Transboundary Context", "text": "Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment in a Transboundary Context\n\nThe Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment in a Transboundary Context (informally called the Espoo Convention) is a United Nations Economic Commission for Europe (UNECE) convention signed in Espoo, Finland, in 1991 that entered into force in 1997. The Convention sets out the obligations of Parties—that is States that have agreed to be bound by the Convention—to carry out an environmental impact assessment of certain activities at an early stage of planning. It also lays down the general obligation of States to notify and consult each other on all major projects under consideration that are likely to have a significant adverse environmental impact across boundaries.\n\nAs of April 2014, the treaty had been ratified by 44 states and the European Union.\n\nThe Convention has been amended twice. \nThe first amendment was adopted in Sofia in 2001; it has entered into force 26 August 2014 (https://treaties.un.org/Pages/ViewDetails.aspx?src=TREATY&mtdsg_no=XXVII-4-a&chapter=27&clang=_en). It opens the Convention to accession upon approval by United Nations Member States that are not members of the UNECE. \nThe second amendment was adopted in Cavtat, Croatia, in 2004; as for the September 2016, it is not in force yet (https://treaties.un.org/Pages/ViewDetails.aspx?src=TREATY&mtdsg_no=XXVII-4-c&chapter=27&clang=_en). Once in force it will: allow, as appropriate, affected Parties to participate in scoping; require reviews of compliance; revise the Convention's Appendix I (list of activities); and make other minor changes.\n\nThe Convention involves a Party (or Parties) of origin (States where an activity is planned) and an affected Party (or Parties) (States whose territory may be significantly adversely affected by the activity). The Convention's main procedural steps are:\n\n\nArticle 3(7) of the Convention offers a procedure by which parties can solve differences by scientific, non-judicial means. The first case in which an inquiry commission was established under article 3(7) was that of the Bystroe Canal, at the request of Romania in 2004.\n\nA case which involved countries far apart on the globe was raised by Micronesia, which claimed that the Czech coal-fired plant at Prunerov was significantly affecting its climate due to global warming.\n\nThe Convention was also instrumental in the creation of Strategic Environmental Assessment and has been supplemented by a Protocol on Strategic Environmental Assessment.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6792476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6792476", "title": "Cossack Rada", "text": "Cossack Rada\n\nCossack Rada (, \"Kozats'ka Rada\") or General Military Council was a general Cossack assembly (council) often military in nature. \n\nOriginally established at the Zaporizhian Sich, the rada (council) was an institution of Cossack administration in Ukraine from the 16th to the 18th century. With the establishment of the Hetman state in 1648, it was officially known as the General Military Council until 1750.\n\nOne of the most famous of those councils was the Chorna rada of 1663, described in the novel \"Chorna Rada\" (\"The Black Council\") by Panteleimon Kulish. At that council the Hetmanate faction of Khmelnytsky were deposed from the government and replaced by Bryukhovetsky, the first hetman who became the Russian boyar.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6894420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6894420", "title": "Dunst (performance group)", "text": "Dunst (performance group)\n\nDunst is a queer performance art and activist group in Copenhagen, Denmark. The group began in 2001 as an informal network, but since 2004 it formally works as an association. Among its projects are art shows, dinner nights, performances, film nights, parties and political manifestations, as well as TV and radio shows. The name means \"odour\" or \"reek\" in Danish.\n\nDuring 2003, Dunst handled the Gay House at Christiania. Events and parties in the revived Gay House were popular among Copenhagen's gays, but Dunst allegedly received complaints and threats from Christiania residents and subsequently moved out of Christiania.\n\nDuring 2003 Dunst broadcast six episodes of its own TV show on Kanal København, a local Copenhagen television network. The network, however, declined to air an episode showing one artist eating excrement and subsequently banned Dunst from its facilities. Dunst currently broadcasts a weekly radio show on the local cable network.\n\nDunst has made events in neighbouring countries and has gained some international attention, notably in Berlin.\n\nDunst is known for its bizarre and ironic drag queen personalities (including such names as \"Ramona Macho, Miss Fish, Puta\" and \"Tove Hansen\") and music performers such as the band Nuclear Family. Having decidedly anti-establishment aims, the group has a humorous approach with a drag-punk flavour. Public appearances have been referred in several mainstream media which would otherwise often ignore gay events.\n\nThe attitude of Dunst appears more sarcastic and less militant than radical queer punk formations in other countries. It could be claimed that Dunst combines a postmodern appearance with a Danish tradition of humorous political activism. During the 1970s and 1980s, the theatre group Solvognen (\"Sun Chariot,\" linked with Christiania), singers Troels Trier and Rebecca Brüel, and the squatter performance network Kulørte Klat \"(\"Coloured Blob\")\" made imaginative and ironic performances, as well as feminist groups of \"rødstrømper\" (literally \"Redstockings\").\n\nThe Dunst website proclaims its \"Manifesto\" as follows:\n\n1. dunst is for all the cute ones.\n\n2. dunst is the culture bearing layer of our gender political confusement.\n\n3. dunst has provocation as a work tool and not as a goal in itself.\n\n4. dunst makes contrasts strong.\n\n5. dunst is for all who in a self performance will go beyond their own modesty.\n\n6. dunst is the low life that others won't have an opinion about.\n\n7. dunst is the sanctuary for those who come from a male or female chauvinist upbringing.\n\n8. dunst crosses the gender specific habits and limits you keep in your everyday life.\n\n9. dunst is for those who think they and others should be culturally carpet bombed.\n\n10. dunst is always in change.\n\n"}
{"id": "14691979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14691979", "title": "Ede North/Ede South/Egbedore/Ejigbo", "text": "Ede North/Ede South/Egbedore/Ejigbo\n\nIt covers the Local Government Areas of Ede South, Ede North, Egbedore and Ejigbo.\n"}
{"id": "11474835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11474835", "title": "Electoral Disabilities (Military Service) Removal Act 1900", "text": "Electoral Disabilities (Military Service) Removal Act 1900\n\nThe Electoral Disabilities (Military Service) Removal Act 1900 (63 & 64 Vict. c.8), long title An Act to remove Electoral Disabilities which may arise in the case of Members of the Reserve, Militia, and Yeomanry Forces, and in the case of Volunteers, by reason of absence on the Military Service of the Crown, was an Act of Parliament of the Parliament of the United Kingdom, given the Royal Assent on 25 May 1900 and repealed in 1908.\n\nIt held that any person on active service as part of the reserves, volunteers, yeomanry or militia, and as a result not fulfilling the residency requirement for electoral registration, was not to be disqualified from registration for this reason alone. It also provided that they were not to be disqualified if their wife or their children had received poor relief during such an absence.\n\nThe Act was specifically stipulated to only apply during the duration of the South African War, though it applied to any absence on active service, whether overseas or on service within the United Kingdom. \"Volunteer\" applied generally, to any person enlisted for temporary service for the purposes of the war.\n\nThe Act was repealed by the Statute Law Revision Act 1908, though it had by this point ceased to have any effect.\n\n"}
{"id": "24530443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24530443", "title": "Electron-stimulated luminescence", "text": "Electron-stimulated luminescence\n\nElectron-stimulated luminescence (ESL) was a claimed method of producing light by cathodoluminescence, i.e. by a beam of electrons made to hit a fluorescent phosphor surface. This is also the method used to produce light in a cathode ray tube (CRT), but, unlike CRTs, ESL lamps do not include magnetic or electrostatic means to deflect the electron beam.\n\nA cathodoluminescent light has a transparent glass envelope coated on the inside with a light-emitting phosphor layer. Electrons emitted from a cathode strike the phosphor; the current returns through a transparent conductive coating on the envelope. The phosphor layer emits light through the transparent face of the envelope. The system has a power supply providing at least 5kVDC to the light emitting device, and the electrons transiting from cathode to anode are essentially unfocused. Additional circuits allow triac-type dimmers to control the light level. Lights produced so far have a color rendering index of 90. The energy consumption can be 70% less than that of a standard incandescent light bulb. Claimed lifetime can be as long as 10,000 hours which is more than ten times that of a standard incandescent light bulb.\n\nUnlike fluorescent lamps, which produce light through the electrical excitation of mercury vapor, ESL lamps do not use mercury. The first commercially available ESL product was a reflector bulb.\n\nDrawbacks include high weight, a slightly larger-than-normal base and – as with compact fluorescent lamps – when switched on, a slight delay before illumination begins and a static charge which attracts dust to the bulb face. As of 2016 the cost is higher and claimed efficiency is less than half that of commercially available LED bulbs, although it is considerably better than that of traditional incandescent lamps.\n\nIn 1958, Ferranti introduced a line of flood beam CRT-type stroboscope lamps\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47190704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47190704", "title": "Eminent domain in the United States", "text": "Eminent domain in the United States\n\nEminent domain in the United States refers to the power of a state or the federal government to take private property for public use while requiring \"just\" compensation to be given to the original owner. It can be legislatively delegated by the state to municipalities, government subdivisions, or even to private persons or corporations, when they are authorized to exercise the functions of public character.\n\nThe property may be taken either for government use or by delegation to third parties, who will devote it to public or civic use or, in some cases, to economic development. The most common uses of property taken by eminent domain are for government buildings and other facilities, public utilities, highways and railroads. However, it may also be taken for reasons of public safety, as in the case of Centralia, Pennsylvania, where land was taken due to an underground mine fire. Some jurisdictions require that the condemnor make an offer to purchase the subject property, before resorting to the use of eminent domain.\n\nThe term \"eminent domain\" was taken from the legal treatise \"De Jure Belli et Pacis\", written by the Dutch jurist Hugo Grotius in 1625, which used the term \"dominium eminens\" (Latin for \"supreme lordship\") and described the power as follows:\n... The property of subjects is under the eminent domain of the state, so that the state or he who acts for it may use and even alienate and destroy such property, not only in the case of extreme necessity, in which even private persons have a right over the property of others, but for ends of public utility, to which ends those who founded civil society must be supposed to have intended that private ends should give way. But it is to be added that when this is done the state is bound to make good the loss to those who lose their property.\nSome U.S. states use the term \"appropriation\" (New York) or \"expropriation\" (Louisiana) as synonyms for the exercise of eminent domain powers.\n\nThe term \"condemnation\" is used to describe the formal act of the exercise of the power of eminent domain to transfer title to the property from its private owner to the government. This use of the word should not be confused with its sense of a declaration that property is uninhabitable due to defects. Condemnation via eminent domain indicates the government is taking ownership of the property or some lesser interest in it, such as an easement, and must pay just compensation for it. After the condemnation action is filed, the amount of just compensation is determined in trial. However, in some cases, the property owner challenges the right to take because the proposed taking is not for \"public use\", or the condemnor is not legislatively authorized to take the subject property, or has not followed the proper substantive or procedural steps as required by law. Also, in some cases the right to take may be denied by the courts for lack of public necessity for the taking (required by statute), but this is quite rare.\n\nThe exercise of eminent domain is not limited to real property. Governments may also condemn personal property. Governments can even condemn intangible property such as contract rights, patents, trade secrets, and copyrights. Even the taking by a city of professional sports team's franchise has been held by the California Supreme Court to be within the purview of the \"public use\" constitutional limitation, although eventually, that taking was not permitted because it was deemed to violate the interstate commerce clause of the U.S. Constitution.\n\nThe practice of condemnation was transplanted into the American colonies with the common law. In the early years, unimproved land could be taken without compensation; this practice was accepted because land was so abundant that it could be cheaply replaced. When it came time to draft the United States Constitution, differing views on eminent domain were voiced. Thomas Jefferson favored eliminating all remnants of feudalism, and pushed for allodial ownership. James Madison, who wrote the Fifth Amendment to the United States Constitution, had a more moderate view, and struck a compromise that sought to at least protect property rights somewhat by explicitly mandating compensation and using the term \"public use\" rather than \"public purpose,\" \"public interest\", or \"public benefit\".\n\nThe Fifth Amendment includes the Public Use Clause and the Takings Clause. Some historians have suggested that these limitations on the taking power were inspired by the need to permit the army to secure mounts, fodder and provisions from local ranchers and the perceived need to assure them compensation for such takings. Similarly, soldiers forcibly sought housing in whatever homes were near their military assignments. To address the latter problem, the Third Amendment was enacted in 1791 as part of the US Constitution's Bill of Rights. It provided that the quartering of soldiers on private property could not take place in peacetime without the landowner's consent. It also required that, in wartime, established law had to be followed in housing troops on private property. Presumably, this would mandate \"just compensation,\" a requirement for the exercise of eminent domain in general per the Fifth Amendment. All U.S. states have legislation specifying eminent domain procedures within their respective territories.\n\nThe power of governments to take private real or personal property has always existed in the United States, as an inherent attribute of sovereignty. This power reposes in the legislative branch of the government and may not be exercised unless the legislature has authorized its use by statutes that specify who may use it and for what purposes. The legislature may take private property directly by passing an Act transferring title to the government. The property owner may then seek compensation by suing in the U.S. Court of Federal Claims. The legislature may also delegate the power to private entities like public utilities or railroads, and even to individuals for the purpose of acquiring access to their landlocked land. Its use was limited by the Takings Clause in the Fifth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution in 1791, which reads, \"... nor shall private property be taken for public use, without just compensation.\" The Fifth Amendment did not create the national government's right to use the eminent domain power, it simply limited it to public use.\n\nThe U.S. Supreme Court has consistently deferred to the right of states to make their own determinations of public use. In \"Clark vs. Nash\" (1905), the Supreme Court acknowledged that different parts of the country have unique circumstances and the definition of public use thus varied with the facts of the case. It ruled a farmer could expand his irrigation ditch across another farmer's land (with compensation), because that farmer was entitled to \"the flow of the waters of the said Fort Canyon Creek ... and the uses of the said waters ... [is] a public use.\" Here, in recognizing the arid climate and geography of Utah, the Court indicated the farmer not adjacent to the river had as much right as the farmer who was, to access the waters. However, until the 14th Amendment was ratified in 1868, the limitations on eminent domain specified in the Fifth Amendment applied only to the federal government and not to the states. That view ended in 1896 when in the \"Chicago, Burlington & Quincy Railroad Co. v. City of Chicago\" case the court held that the eminent domain provisions of the Fifth Amendment were incorporated in the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment and thus were now binding on the states, or in other words, when the states take private property they are required to devote it to a public use and compensate the property owner for his loss. This was the beginning of what is now known as the \"selective incorporation\" doctrine.\n\nAn expansive interpretation of eminent domain was reaffirmed in \"Berman v. Parker\" (1954), in which the U.S. Supreme Court reviewed an effort by the District of Columbia to take and raze blighted structures in order to eliminate slums in the Southwest Washington area. After the taking, held the court, the taken and razed land could be transferred to private redevelopers who would construct condominiums, private office buildings and a shopping center. The Supreme Court ruled against the owners of a non-blighted property within the area on the grounds that the project should be judged on its plans as a whole, not on a parcel by parcel basis. In \"Hawaii Housing Authority v. Midkiff\" (1984), the Supreme Court approved the use of eminent domain to transfer a land lessor's title to its tenants who owned and occupied homes built on the leased land. The court's justification was to break up a housing oligopoly, and thereby lower or stabilize home prices, although in reality, following the \"Midkiff\" decision, home prices on Oahu escalated dramatically, more than doubling within a few years.\n\nThe Supreme Court's decision in \"Kelo v. City of New London\", 545 U.S. 469 (2005) went a step further and affirmed the authority of New London, Connecticut, to take non-blighted private property by eminent domain, and then transfer it for a dollar a year to a private developer solely for the purpose of increasing municipal revenues. This 5–4 decision received heavy press coverage and inspired a public outcry criticizing eminent domain powers as too broad. In reaction to \"Kelo\", several states enacted or are considering state legislation that would further define and restrict the power of eminent domain. The Supreme Courts of Illinois, Michigan (\"County of Wayne v. Hathcock\" [2004]), Ohio (\"Norwood, Ohio v. Horney\" [2006]), Oklahoma, and South Carolina have recently ruled to disallow such takings under their state constitutions.\n\nThe redevelopment in New London, the subject of the \"Kelo\" decision, proved to be a failure and as of ten years after the court's decision nothing was built on the taken land in spite of the expenditure of over $100 million in public funds. The Pfizer corporation, which owned a $300 million research facility in the area, and would have been the primary beneficiary of the additional development, announced in 2009 that it would close its facility, and did so shortly before the expiration of its 10-year tax abatement agreement with the city. The facility was subsequently purchased in 2010 for just $55 million by General Dynamics Electric Boat.\n\nThe term \"Severance Damages\" is used in partial takings of land. It is the award paid to the land owner for the diminution in value of the part of the property that is not taken and remains in the owner's hands. American courts have held that the preferred measure of \"just compensation\" is \"fair market value,\" i.e., the price that a willing but unpressured buyer would pay a willing but unpressured seller in a voluntary transaction, with both parties fully informed of the property's good and bad features. Also, this approach takes into account the property's highest and best use (i.e., its most profitable use), which is not necessarily its current use or the use mandated by current zoning if there is a reasonable probability of zone change.\n\nWhen private property is destroyed, condemned, or disposed of, the owner may receive a payment in property or money in the form of insurance or a condemnation award.\nIf property is compulsorily or involuntarily converted into money (as in eminent domain) the proceeds can be reinvested without payment of capital gains tax provided it is reinvested in property similar or related in service or use to the property so converted, no capital gain shall be recognized.\n\nOn June 23, 2006, the first anniversary of the \"Kelo\" decision (see above), President George W. Bush issued , which stated in Section I that the federal government must limit its use of taking private property to \"public use\" with \"just compensation\" (both of which are phrases used in the U.S. Constitution) for the \"purpose of benefiting the general public.\" The order limits this use by stating that it may not be used \"for the purpose of advancing the economic interest of private parties to be given ownership or use of the property taken.\" However, eminent domain is more often exercised by local and state governments, albeit often with funds obtained from the federal government.\n\n"}
{"id": "25718347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25718347", "title": "Finance Court (Germany)", "text": "Finance Court (Germany)\n\nFiscal Court (Germany)\n\nThe Fiscal Courts (dt.: Finanzgericht) are special courts. The judges have to decide on the pleas of citizens who claim that they have been taxed unlawfully by tax or customs authorities.\n\nThe punishment of tax offenders is not the business of the Fiscal Court. A Fiscal Court is not an extended arm of tax government, but is independent from it like any other German court (separation of powers, also known as trias politica). Except for the (federal) supreme courts, each federal state is responsible for organising its own judicature (Division of powers). \n\nThe Fiscal Courts are listed below:\n\n\nAppeal court in tax and custom matters is the Federal Fiscal Court of Germany (dt.: Bundesfinanzhof)\n"}
{"id": "20804802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20804802", "title": "First Optional Protocol to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights", "text": "First Optional Protocol to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights\n\nThe First Optional Protocol to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights is an international treaty establishing an individual complaint mechanism for the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR). It was adopted by the UN General Assembly on 16 December 1966, and entered into force on 23 March 1976. As of January 2018, it had 35 signatories and 116 states parties. Two of the ratifying states—Jamaica and Trinidad and Tobago—have denounced the protocol.\n\nThe Optional Protocol establishes an individual complaints mechanism for the ICCPR similar to those of the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and Article 14 of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination. Parties agree to recognise the competence of the UN Human Rights Committee to consider complaints from individuals who claim their rights under the Covenant have been violated. Complainants must have exhausted all domestic remedies, and anonymous complaints are not permitted. The Committee must bring complaints to the attention of the relevant party, which must respond within six months. Following consideration, the Committee must forward its conclusions to the party and the complainant.\n\nWhile not expressly provided for in the Protocol, the HRC regards the recognition of its competence to hear complaints as imposing an obligation not to hinder access to the Committee and to prevent any retaliation against complainants. It regards its findings as authoritative determinations of obligations under the Covenant, and their adoption as being required in order to provide an \"effective remedy\" under Article 2 of the ICCPR.\n\nThe Optional Protocol required ten ratifications to come into force.\n\nA number of parties have made reservations and interpretative declarations to their application of the Optional Protocol.\n\nAustria does not recognise the jurisdiction of the HRC to consider complaints which have already been examined by the European Commission on Human Rights.\n\nChile, Croatia, El Salvador, France, Germany, Guatemala, Malta, Russia, Slovenia, Sri Lanka, and Turkey consider the Optional Protocol to only apply to complaints which arose after it entered into force for those countries.\n\nCroatia, Denmark, France, Germany, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Malta, Norway, Poland, Romania, Russia, Slovenia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sweden, Turkey and Uganda do not recognise the jurisdiction of the HRC to consider complaints which have already been considered under another international complaint procedure.\n\nGermany and Turkey do not recognise the jurisdiction of the HRC to hear complaints resulting from Article 26 of the ICCPR, covering discrimination and equality before the law, except insofar as they relate to rights expressly affirmed in the Covenant.\n\nGuyana and Trinidad and Tobago do not recognise the jurisdiction of the HRC to hear complaints relating to their use of the death penalty.\n\nVenezuela does not recognise the competence of the HRC to hear complaints regarding in-absentia trials for offences against the republic.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17686260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17686260", "title": "Global Labour University", "text": "Global Labour University\n\nThe Global Labour University (GLU) is an international network of universities, trade unions, NGOs and the International Labour Organisation. It was initiated in 2002 and offers masters programs, academic certificate programs and Massive Open Online Courses (MOOC) on sustainable development, social justice, international labour standards and trade/labour unions, economic policies and global institutions.\n\nUniversities and workers’ organisations from around the world have jointly developed these unique global programmes. The programmes aim at allowing labour organisations and social movements to engage more effectively in social dialogue, public debate and policy implementation.\n\nThe GLU is a network of trade unionists, researchers and ILO (International Labour Organisation) experts who have combined their experience and knowledge to further academic expertise relative to the global labour market. This network develops and delivers high-level academic programmes, usually one year masters courses. It is a new approach to strengthening the intellectual and strategic capacity of workers’ organisations and to establish much stronger working relationships between trade/labour unions, the ILO, and the scientific community.\n\nThe GLU contributes to strengthening union capacity and competence to defend workers' interests, to promote the \"Decent Work\" agenda and to enable workers’ organisations to engage more effectively in social dialogue on social and economic policy issues such as employment, social protection and the implementation of international labour standards.\n\nThe programs support unions in upgrading their intellectual profile by building a channel for the development of qualified trade union leaders, as well as supporting the recruitment of younger experts. The courses in all countries are conducted in English.\n\nAs part of their course, students analyse and discuss, in a multidisciplinary fashion, the challenges of globalisation from a labour and trade/labour union perspective. The programmes offer a multicultural and multiregional environment: students and lecturers come from developing, transition and industrialised countries. Participants may also study one term of the programme in South Africa or Brazil and one term in Germany.\n\nThe curriculum of a pilot masters course was first developed in 2003/04, the first course starting in Germany in 2004/05, followed by courses in Africa (South Africa 2007) and Latin America (Brazil 2008), then in mid-2008, in Mumbai, India. Recently, the Penn State University, USA and the Jawaharlal Nehru University in New Delhi joined the network. Discussions have been held with a number of other universities in other countries. Whenever possible, students from all regions will be represented in the courses.\n\nThe governance structure of the Global Labour University network is based on the partnership between the ILO, the national and international trade union movement, the partner universities and the funding bodies. A steering committee is heading the overall direction.\n\nThe Global Labour University is supported by the International Labour Organisation. A limited number of scholarships are available, usually for students from developing countries. The endorsement by a trade union is a requirement for a scholarship. The scholarship is conditional on a contribution of 1500 euros from the student, her/his supporting trade union or another donor.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nA first cooperation between Kassel and Witwatersrand allow for binational double degrees. More universities from Argentina, the United Kingdom, Portugal, Ghana, Russia, the Philippines and Turkey have expressed their interest in joining or are already participating.\n\nThe GLU helds an annual conference\n\n\nThe GLU promotes research cooperation and organizes summer schools and workshops in the alumni network. At its 10th anniversary in 2014 the GLU counted 367 alumni.\n\nThe GLU offers in cooperation with University of the Witwatersrand a two-month training and research programme for trade unionists.\n\nThe first network-wide coordinated international research project was started in 2013 under the title \"Combating Inequality: Causes of economic and social inequality\". First results have been published in a special edition of the \"International Journal of Labour Research\" and in the GLU Working Paper series.\n\nFrom the GLU network two lines of publications have emerged:\n\n\nCompilations of these columns are regularly published as books, firstly via the ILO itself, and since 2015 with Pluto Press. Some of these have been translated to French and Spanish.\n\nAlthough they are not officially part of the GLU, some scientific journals are closely linked to it via the persons represented in the editorial committees and the authors of the contributions. Amongst them are:\n\nThe GLU launched in June 2015 its first Massive Open Online Course (MOOC) on \"Workers' Rights in a Global Economy\" on the platform iversity.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26791982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26791982", "title": "Green v. Haskell County Board of Commissioners", "text": "Green v. Haskell County Board of Commissioners\n\nGreen v. Haskell County Board of Commissioners, 568 F.3d 784 (10th Cir. 2009), was a First Amendment case concerning the placing of a Ten Commandments monument on public property, an alleged violation of the separation of church and state.\n\nThe case involved the presence of a Ten Commandments monument on the Haskell County, Oklahoma Courthouse lawn. Since the lawn is public property, James Green, a local resident, felt that the monument's presence was, \"ipso facto\", a violation of the First Amendment's separation of church and state. With the support of the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU), Green sued in 2004 to have the monument removed.\n\nThe United States Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit ruled in \"Green v. Haskell County Board of Commissioners\" that the monument must be removed from the courthouse lawn. Federal Judge Ronald A. White allowed the monument to remain whilst the Haskell county commissioners appealed the Tenth Circuit's decision, but the order for its removal became enforceable when the Supreme Court of the United States declined to hear the case on March 1, 2010. As Commissioner Kenny Short put it, \"It will have to go. There's no getting around that now.\"\n\nThough the county employees tasked with preparing the monument for removal were heckled by locals, the monument was eventually moved to the lawn of the American Legion (where it still rests), only a few feet away from the courthouse.\n\nAccording to the July 7 and July 14 editions of the Stigler News Sentinel, the ACLU, led by Joanne Bell, requested $250,000 in court fees from Haskell County. The Haskell County Board of Supervisors acquiesced, agreeing to pay the $250,000 over a 10-year period.\n\n\nOther source materials: \"Stigler News Sentinel\" of 3/11/2010, 3/18/2010, 7/7/2010 and 7/14/2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "2276540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2276540", "title": "Illegal agreement", "text": "Illegal agreement\n\nAn illegal agreement, under the common law of contract, is one that the courts will not enforce because the purpose of the agreement is to achieve an illegal end. The illegal end must result from performance of the contract itself. The classic example of such an agreement is a contract for murder.\n\nHowever, a contract that requires only legal performance on the part of each party, such as the sale of packs of cards to a known gambler, where gambling is illegal, will nonetheless be enforceable. A contract directly linked to the gambling act itself, such as paying off gambling debts (see proximate cause), however, will not meet the legal standards of enforceability. Therefore, an employment contract between a blackjack dealer and a speakeasy manager, is an example of an illegal agreement and the employee has no valid claim to his anticipated wages if gambling is illegal under that jurisdiction.\n\nIn \"Bovard v. American Horse Enterprises\" (1988), the California Court of Appeal for the Third District refused to enforce a contract for payment of promissory notes used for the purchase of a company that manufactured drug paraphernalia. Although the items sold were not actually illegal, the court refused to enforce the contract for public policy concerns.\n\nIn Canada, one cited case of lack of enforceability based on illegality is \"Royal Bank of Canada v. Newell, 147 D.L.R (4th) 268 (N.S.C.A.),\" in which a woman forged her husband's signature on 40 cheques, totalling over $58,000. To protect her from prosecution, her husband signed a letter of intent prepared by the bank in which he agreed to assume \"all liability and responsibility\" for the forged cheques. However, the agreement was unenforceable, and was struck down by the courts, because of its essential goal, which was to \"stifle a criminal prosecution.\" Because of the contract's illegality, and as a result voided status, the bank was forced to return the payments made by the husband.\n\nContracts in restraint of trade are a variety of illegal contracts and generally will not be enforced unless they are reasonable in the interests of the contracting parties and the \npublic.\n\nContracts in restraint of trade if proved to be reasonable can be enforced. When restraint is placed on an ex-employee, the court will consider the geographical limits, what the employee knows and the extent of the duration. Restraint imposed on a vendor of business must be reasonable and is binding if there is a genuine seal of goodwill. Under common law, contracts to fix prices are legal. \"Sole supplier\" (\"solus\") agreements are legal if reasonable. Contracts which contravene public policy are void.\n\n"}
{"id": "15430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15430", "title": "Inheritance", "text": "Inheritance\n\nInheritance is the practice of passing on property, titles, debts, rights, and obligations upon the death of an individual. The rules of inheritance differ between societies and have changed over time.\n\nIn law, an \"heir\" is a person who is entitled to receive a share of the deceased's (the person who died) property, subject to the rules of inheritance in the jurisdiction of which the deceased was a citizen or where the deceased (decedent) died or owned property at the time of death.\n\nThe inheritance may be either under the terms of a will or by intestate laws if the deceased had no will. However, the will must comply with the laws of the jurisdiction at the time it was created or it will be declared invalid (for example, some states do not recognize holographic wills as valid, or only in specific circumstances) and the intestate laws then apply.\n\nA person does not become an heir before the death of the deceased, since the exact identity of the persons entitled to inherit is determined only then. Members of ruling noble or royal houses who are expected to become heirs are called heirs apparent if first in line and incapable of being displaced from inheriting by another claim; otherwise, they are heirs presumptive. There is a further concept of joint inheritance, pending renunciation by all but one, which is called coparceny.\n\nIn modern law, the terms \"inheritance\" and \"heir\" refer exclusively to succession to property by descent from a deceased dying intestate. Takers in property succeeded to under a will are termed generally \"beneficiaries,\" and specifically \"devisees\" for real property, \"bequestees\" for personal property, or \"legatees\".\n\nExcept in some jurisdictions where a person cannot be legally disinherited (such as the United States state of Louisiana, which allows disinheritance only under specifically enumerated circumstances), a person who would be an heir under intestate laws may be disinherited completely under the terms of a will (an example is that of the will of comedian Jerry Lewis; his will specifically disinherited his six children by his first wife, and their descendants, leaving his entire estate to his second wife).\n\nDetailed anthropological and sociological studies have been made about customs of patrilineal inheritance, where only male children can inherit. Some cultures also employ matrilineal succession, where property can only pass along the female line, most commonly going to the sister's sons of the decedent; but also, in some societies, from the mother to her daughters. Some ancient societies and most modern states employ egalitarian inheritance, without discrimination based on gender and/or birth order.\n\nThe inheritance is patrilineal. The father —that is, the owner of the land— bequeaths only to his male descendants, so the Promised Land passes from one Jewish father to his sons.\n\nIf there were no living sons and no descendants of any previously living sons, daughters inherit. In , the daughters of Zelophehad (Mahlah, Noa, Hoglah, Milcah, and Tirzah) of the tribe of Manasseh come to Moses and ask for their father's inheritance, as they have no brothers. The order of inheritance is set out in : a man's sons inherit first, daughters if no sons, brothers if he has no children, and so on.\n\nLater, in , some of the heads of the families of the tribe of Manasseh come to Moses and point out that, if a daughter inherits and then marries a man not from her paternal tribe, her land will pass from her birth-tribe's inheritance into her marriage-tribe's. So a further rule is laid down: if a daughter inherits land, she must marry someone within her father's tribe. (The daughters of Zelophehad marry the sons' of their father's brothers. There is \"no\" indication that this was not their choice.)\n\nThe tractate Baba Bathra, written during late Antiquity in Babylon, deals extensively with issues of property ownership and inheritance according to Jewish Law. Other works of Rabbinical Law, such as the Hilkhot naḥalot : mi-sefer Mishneh Torah leha-Rambam, and the Sefer ha-yerushot: ʻim yeter ha-mikhtavim be-divre ha-halakhah be-ʻAravit uve-ʻIvrit uve-Aramit also deal with inheritance issues. The first, often abbreviated to Mishneh Torah, was written by Maimonides and was very important in Jewish tradition.\n\nAll these sources agree that the firstborn son is entitled to a double portion of his father's estate: . This means that, for example, if a father left five sons, the firstborn receives a third of the estate and each of the other four receives a sixth. If he left nine sons, the firstborn receives a fifth and each of the other eight receive a tenth. If the eldest surviving son is not the firstborn son, he is not entitled to the double portion.\n\nPhilo of Alexandria and Josephus also comment on the Jewish laws of inheritance, praising them above other law codes of their time. They also agreed that the firstborn son must receive a double portion of his father's estate.\n\nThe New Testament does not specifically mention anything about inheritance rights: the only story even mentioning inheritance is that of the Prodigal Son, but that involved the father voluntarily passing his estate to his two sons prior to his death; the younger son receiving his inheritance (1/3; the older son would have received 2/3 under then existing Jewish law) and squandering it.\n\nThe topic is generally not discussed among doctrinal statements of various denominations or sects, leaving that to be a matter of secular concern.\n\nThe Quran introduced a number of different rights and restrictions on matters of inheritance, including general improvements to the treatment of women and family life compared to the pre-Islamic societies that existed in the Arabian Peninsula at the time. Furthermore, the Quran introduced additional heirs that were not entitled to inheritance in pre-Islamic times, mentioning nine relatives specifically of which six were female and three were male. However, the inheritance rights of women remained inferior to those of men because in Islam someone always has a responsibility of looking after a woman's expenses. According to the Quran, for example, a son is entitled to twice as much inheritance as a daughter. The Quran also presented efforts to fix the laws of inheritance, and thus forming a complete legal system. This development was in contrast to pre-Islamic societies where rules of inheritance varied considerably. In addition to the above changes, the Quran imposed restrictions on testamentary powers of a Muslim in disposing his or her property. In their will, a Muslim can only give out a maximum of one third of their property.\n\nThe Quran contains only three verses that give specific details of inheritance and shares, in addition to few other verses dealing with testamentary. But this information was used as a starting point by Muslim jurists who expounded the laws of inheritance even further using Hadith, as well as methods of juristic reasoning like Qiyas. Nowadays, inheritance is considered an integral part of Sharia law and its application for Muslims is mandatory, though many peoples (see Historical inheritance systems), despite being Muslim, have other inheritance customs.\n\nThe distribution of the inherited wealth has varied greatly among different cultures and legal traditions. In nations using civil law, for example, the right of children to inherit wealth from parents in pre-defined ratios is enshrined in law, as far back as the Code of Hammurabi (ca. 1750 BC). In the US State of Louisiana, the only US state to use Napoleonic Code for state law, this system is known as \"forced heirship\" which prohibits disinheritance of adult children except for a few narrowly-defined reasons that a parent is obligated to prove. Other legal traditions, particularly in nations using common law, allow inheritances to be divided however one wishes, or to disinherit any child for any reason.\n\nIn cases of unequal inheritance, the majority might receive little while only a small number inherit a larger amount, with the lesser amount given to the daughter in the family. The amount of inheritance is often far less than the value of a business initially given to the son, especially when a son takes over a thriving multimillion-dollar business, yet the daughter is given the balance of the actual inheritance amounting to far less than the value of business that was initially given to the son. This is especially seen in old world cultures, but continues in many families to this day.\n\nArguments for eliminating the disparagement of inheritance inequality include the right to property and the merit of individual allocation of capital over government wealth confiscation and redistribution, but this does not resolve what some describe as the problem of unequal inheritance. In terms of inheritance inequality, some economists and sociologists focus on the inter generational transmission of income or wealth which is said to have a direct impact on one's mobility (or immobility) and class position in society. Nations differ on the political structure and policy options that govern the transfer of wealth.\n\nAccording to the American federal government statistics compiled by Mark Zandi in 1985, the average US inheritance was $39,000. In subsequent years, the overall amount of total annual inheritance more than doubled, reaching nearly $200 billion. By 2050, there will be an estimated $25 trillion inheritance transmitted across generations.\n\nSome researchers have attributed this rise to the baby boomer generation. Historically, the baby boomers were the largest influx of children conceived after WW2. For this reason, Thomas Shapiro suggests that this generation \"is in the midst of benefiting from the greatest inheritance of wealth in history.\" Inherited wealth may help explain why many Americans who have become rich may have had a \"substantial head start\". In September 2012, according to the Institute for Policy Studies, \"over 60 percent\" of the Forbes richest 400 Americans \"grew up in substantial privilege\", and often (but not always) received substantial inheritances. The French economist Thomas Piketty studied this phenomenon in his best-selling book \"Capital in the Twenty-First Century\", published in 2013.\n\nOther research has shown that many inheritances, large or small, are rapidly squandered. Similarly, analysis shows that over two-thirds of high-wealth families lose their wealth within two generations, and almost 80% of high-wealth parents \"feel the next generation is not financially responsible enough to handle inheritance.\"\n\nIt has been argued that inheritance plays a significant effect on social stratification. Inheritance is an integral component of family, economic, and legal institutions, and a basic mechanism of class stratification. It also affects the distribution of wealth at the societal level. The total cumulative effect of inheritance on stratification outcomes takes three forms, according to scholars who have examined the subject.\n\nThe first form of inheritance is the inheritance of cultural capital (i.e. linguistic styles, higher status social circles, and aesthetic preferences). The second form of inheritance is through familial interventions in the form of \"inter vivos\" transfers (i.e. gifts between the living), especially at crucial junctures in the life courses. Examples include during a child's milestone stages, such as going to college, getting married, getting a job, and purchasing a home. The third form of inheritance is the transfers of bulk estates at the time of death of the testators, thus resulting in significant economic advantage accruing to children during their adult years. The origin of the stability of inequalities is material (personal possessions one is able to obtain) and is also cultural, rooted either in varying child-rearing practices that are geared to socialization according to social class and economic position. Child-rearing practices among those who inherit wealth may center around favoring some groups at the expense of others at the bottom of the social hierarchy.\n\nIt is further argued that the degree to which economic status and inheritance is transmitted across generations determines one's life chances in society. Although many have linked one's social origins and educational attainment to life chances and opportunities, education cannot serve as the most influential predictor of economic mobility. In fact, children of well-off parents generally receive better schooling and benefit from material, cultural, and genetic inheritances. Likewise, schooling attainment is often persistent across generations and families with higher amounts of inheritance are able to acquire and transmit higher amounts of human capital. Lower amounts of human capital and inheritance can perpetuate inequality in the housing market and higher education. Research reveals that inheritance plays an important role in the accumulation of housing wealth. Those who receive an inheritance are more likely to own a home than those who do not regardless of the size of the inheritance.\n\nOften, racial or religious minorities and individuals from socially disadvantaged backgrounds receive less inheritance and wealth. As a result, mixed races might be excluded in inheritance privilege and are more likely to rent homes or live in poorer neighborhoods, as well as achieve lower educational attainment compared with whites in America. Individuals with a substantial amount of wealth and inheritance often intermarry with others of the same social class to protect their wealth and ensure the continuous transmission of inheritance across generations; thus perpetuating a cycle of privilege.\n\nNations with the highest income and wealth inequalities often have the highest rates of homicide and disease (such as obesity, diabetes, and hypertension). A \"The New York Times\" article reveals that the U.S. is the world's wealthiest nation, but \"ranks twenty-ninth in life expectancy, right behind Jordan and Bosnia.\" This has been regarded as highly attributed to the significant gap of inheritance inequality in the country, although there are clearly other factors such as the affordability of healthcare.\n\nWhen social and economic inequalities centered on inheritance are perpetuated by major social institutions such as family, education, religion, etc., these differing life opportunities are argued to be transmitted from each generation. As a result, this inequality is believed to become part of the overall social structure.\n\nDynastic wealth is monetary inheritance that is passed on to generations that didn't earn it. Dynastic wealth is linked to the term Plutocracy. Much has been written about the rise and influence of dynastic wealth including the bestselling book Capital in the Twenty-First Century by the French economist Thomas Piketty.Bill Gates uses the term in his article \"Why Inequality Matters\".\n\nMany states have inheritance taxes or death duties, under which a portion of any estate goes to the government.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1032586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1032586", "title": "Liberum veto", "text": "Liberum veto\n\nThe liberum veto (Latin for \"free veto\") was a parliamentary device in the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth. It was a form of unanimity voting rule that allowed any member of the Sejm (legislature) to force an immediate end to the current session and to nullify any legislation that had already been passed at the session by shouting, Sisto activitatem! (Latin: \"I stop the activity!\") or Nie pozwalam! (Polish: \"I do not allow!\"). The rule was in place from the mid-17th century to the late 18th century in the Sejm's parliamentary deliberations. It was based on the premise that since all Polish noblemen were equal, every measure that came before the Sejm had to be passed unanimously. The \"liberum veto\" was a key part of the political system of the Commonwealth, strengthening democratic elements and checking royal power and went against the European-wide trend of having a strong executive (absolute monarchy).\n\nMany historians hold that the \"liberum veto\" was a major cause of the deterioration of the Commonwealth political system, particularly in the 18th century, when foreign powers bribed Sejm members to paralyze its proceedings, and the Commonwealth's eventual destruction in the partitions of Poland and foreign occupation, dominance and manipulation of Poland for the next 200 years or so. Piotr Stefan Wandycz wrote that the \"\"liberum veto\" had become the sinister symbol of old Polish anarchy\". In the period of 1573–1763, about 150 sejms were held, about a third failing to pass any legislation, mostly because of the \"liberum veto\". The expression \"Polish parliament\" in many European languages originated from the apparent paralysis.\n\nThe rule evolved from the principle of unanimous consent, which derived from the traditions of decision-making in the Kingdom of Poland, and it developed under the federative character of the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth. Each deputy to a Sejm was elected at a sejmik (the local \"sejm\" for a region) and represented the entire region. He thus assumed responsibility to his sejmik for all decisions taken at the Sejm. Since all noblemen were considered equal, a decision taken by a majority against the will of a minority (even if only one sejmik) was considered a violation of the principle of political equality.\n\nAt first, the dissenting deputies were often convinced or cowed back to withdraw their objections. Also, at first, the rule was used to strike down only individual laws, not to dissolve the chamber and throw out all measures passed. For example, as historian Władysław Czapliński describes in the Sejm of 1611 context, some resolutions were struck down, but others passed. From the mid-17th century onward, however, an objection to any item of Sejm legislation from a deputy or senator automatically caused other, earlier adopted legislation to be rejected. That was because all legislation that was adopted by a given Sejm formed a whole.\n\nIt is commonly and erroneously, believed that a Sejm was first disrupted by the \"liberum veto\" by a Trakai deputy, Władysław Siciński, in 1652. In reality, he vetoed only the continuation of the Sejm's deliberations beyond the statutory time limit. He had, however, set up a dangerous precedent. Over the proceedings of the next few sejms, the veto was still occasionally overruled, but it became gradually more accepted. Before 20 years had passed, in 1669 in Kraków, the entire Sejm was prematurely disrupted on the strength of the \"liberum veto\" before it had finished its deliberations by the Kiev deputy, Adam Olizar. The practice spiraled out of control, and in 1688, the Sejm was dissolved even before the proceedings had begun or the Marshal of the Sejm was elected.\n\nDuring the reign of John III Sobieski (1674–1696), half of Sejm proceedings were scuttled by the veto. The practice also spread from the national Sejm to local sejmik proceedings. In the first half of the 18th century, it became increasingly common for Sejm sessions to be broken up by the \"liberum veto\", as the Commonwealth's neighbours, chiefly Russia and Prussia, found it to be a useful tool to frustrate attempts at reforming and strengthening the Commonwealth. By bribing deputies to exercise their vetoes, Poland's neighbours could derail any measures not to their liking. The Commonwealth deteriorated from a European power into a state of anarchy. Only a few Sejms were able to meet during the reign of the House of Saxony in Poland (1696–1763), the last one in 1736. Only 8 out of the 18 Sejm sessions during the reign of Augustus II (1697–1733) passed legislation. For a period of 30 years around the reign of Augustus III, only one session was able to pass legislation (1734–1763). The government was near collapse, giving rise to the term \"Polish anarchy\", and the country was managed by provincial assemblies and magnates.\n\nDisruption of the Commonwealth governance caused by the liberum veto was highly significant. From 1573 to 1763, about 150 Sejms where held, of which 53 failed to pass any legislation. Historian Jacek Jędruch notes that out of the 53 disrupted Sejms, 32 were disrupted by the \"liberum veto\".\n\nThe 18th century saw an institution known as a \"confederated sejm\" evolve. It was a parliament session that operated under the rules of a confederation. Its primary purpose was to avoid disruption by the \"liberum veto\", unlike the national Sejm, which was being paralyzed by the veto. On some occasions, a confederated sejm was formed of the whole membership of the national Sejm so that the \"liberum veto\" would not operate.\n\nThe second half of the 18th century, marking the age of the Enlightenment in Poland, also witnessed an increased trend aiming at the reform of the inefficient governance of the Commonwealth. Reforms of 1764–1766 improved the proceedings of the Sejm. Majority voting for non-crucial items, including most economic and tax matters, was introduced, with binding instructions from sejmiks being outlawed. The road to reform was not easy, as conservatives, supported by foreign powers, opposed most of the changes and attempted to defend the \"liberum veto\" and other elements perpetuating the inefficient governance, most notably by the Cardinal Laws of 1768.\n\nThe \"liberum veto\" was finally abolished by the Constitution of 3 May 1791, adopted by a confederated sejm, which permanently established the principle of majority rule. The achievements of that constitution, however, which historian Norman Davies called \"the first constitution of its kind in Europe\", were undone by another confederated sejm, meeting at Grodno in 1793. That Sejm, under duress from Russia and Prussia, ratified the Second Partition of Poland, anticipating the Third Partition of Poland, the final disappearance of the Polish-Lithuanian state just two years later.\n\nHarvard political scientist Grzegorz Ekiert, assessing the history of the \"liberum veto\" in Poland, concludes:\n\nPolitical scientist Dalibor Roháč noted that the \"principle of \"liberum veto\" played an important role in [the] emergence of the unique Polish form of constitutionalism\" and acted as a significant constraint on the powers of the monarch by making the \"rule of law, religious tolerance and limited constitutional government... the norm in Poland in times when the rest of Europe was being devastated by religious hatred and despotism.\" It was seen as one of the key principles of the Commonwealth political system and culture, the Golden Liberty.\n\nAt the same time, historians hold that the principle of \"liberum veto\" was a major cause of the deterioration of the Commonwealth political system and Commonwealth's eventual downfall. Deputies bribed by magnates or foreign powers, or simply content to believe they were living in some kind of \"Golden Age\", for over a century paralysed the Commonwealth's government, stemming any attempts at reform. Piotr Stefan Wandycz wrote that the \"\"liberum veto\" had become the sinister symbol of old Polish anarchy.\" Wagner echoed him thus: \"Certainly, there was no other institution of old Poland which has been more sharply criticized in more recent times than this one.\".\n\nA 2004 Polish collectible card game, \"Veto\", set in the background of a royal election during an election sejm, is named after this procedure.\n\nUntil the early 1990s, IBM had a decision-making process called \"non-concur\" in which any department head could veto a company-wide strategy if it did not fit in with his department's outlook. That effectively turned IBM into several independent fiefdoms. \"Non-concur\" was eliminated by CEO Louis Gerstner, who was brought in to revive the declining company.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14321156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14321156", "title": "List of countries and dependencies by number of police officers", "text": "List of countries and dependencies by number of police officers\n\nThe following list compares the size of national police forces and police per head. Note that in some countries, particularly those organised under a federal system, such as the US and Canada, the total number of police officers may be much greater because sub-national governments employ significant numbers. In 2006, an analysis by the United Nations indicates an approximate median of 300 police officers per 100,000 inhabitants. Only nine countries disclosed values lower than 100 officers per 100,000 inhabitants. The highest median of police officers – around 400 – was observed in West Asia, Eastern and Southern Europe. The median of police officers per population remained stable between 2002–2006, after an increase between 1995 and 2002.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2864137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2864137", "title": "Makruh", "text": "Makruh\n\nIn Islamic terminology, something which is makruh (Arabic: مكروه, transliterated: makrooh or \"makrūh\") is a disliked or offensive act (literally \"detestable\" or \"abominable\"). It is one of the five categories (\"al-ahkam al-khamsa\") in Islamic law -- \"wajib/fard\" (obligatory), \"Mustahabb/mandub\" (recommended), \"mubah\" (neutral), \"makruh\" (disapproved), \"haram\" (forbidden). \nThough it is not \"haram\" (forbidden) or subject to punishment, a person who abstains from this act will be rewarded. Muslims are encouraged to avoid such actions when or as possible. It is one of the degrees of approval (\"ahkam\") in Islamic law.\n\nExamples of something considered \"Makruh\" are the use of a great amount of water for the pre-prayer ablutions (ritual washings) known as the \"wudu\" and \"ghusl\", the consumption of garlic before attending the mosque or socializing with others, or divorce.\n\nAn example of a food which is considered \"Makruh\" for Muslims of the Hanafi Madh'hab is prawns (but only for Hanafi Madh'hab). There are, however, shared attitudes within the Hanafi school of whether shrimp are considered water game and are thereby halal. Hanafis believe that you should refrain from it and eat something else if possible.\n\nOther examples of \"Makruh\" acts in Islam include swearing, talking while taking wudu for prayer, and slaughtering an animal for food where other animals of its kind can see.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16003215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16003215", "title": "Master of Studies in Law", "text": "Master of Studies in Law\n\nA Master of Studies in Law (M.S.L.), also Master of Science of Law or Master of Legal Studies (M.L.S.) or Juris Master (J.M.), or Masters of Jurisprudence (M.J.) is a master's degree offered by some law schools to students who wish to study the law but do not want to become attorneys. M.S.L. programs typically last one academic year and put students through a similar regimen as first-year J.D. students. M.S.L. students may study such staples as constitutional law, torts, contracts, civil procedure, and other requirements alongside regular law students, writing the same papers and taking the same exams. But they graduate after accumulating two semesters of credit instead of six. Some M.S.L. programs are designed for academics who hold Ph.D.s in a discipline related to the law, and who want to add a legal dimension to scholarship. Other programs aim to provide fundamental legal education to professionals who are not lawyers, but whose careers involve legal or regulatory issues. Compare Master of Laws. Responding to this need, M.L.S. degrees are increasingly offered to working professionals on an online or part-time basis, and allow professionals to tailor elective law courses to their particular career fields. Currently, there are approximately 15 online programs available from accredited universities.\n\nThe degree has several variants, including a Master of Studies in Law degree (at Northeastern University School of Law, The University of Iowa, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, the University of Pittsburgh, the University of Toronto, and the University of Western Ontario), for example, or a Master in the Study of Law (at Ohio State). In June 2015, Fordham University School of Law launched an M.S.L. with specializations in Corporate Compliance and Fashion Law. In March 2007 The Ohio Board of Regents approved M.S.L. Degree for the University of Dayton School of Law, and beginning in the Fall of 2014, Washburn University School of Law offers M.S.L. classes to individuals engaged in a wide range of parallel professions. Drexel University offers a Master of Legal Studies program as of 2013. West Virginia University offers a Master of Legal Studies (M.L.S.) completely online as part of its nationally ranked Division of Public Administration. The University of Washington School of Law offers a Masters of Jurisprudence in Employment and Human Resources, Environmental Regulation, Health Law, Indigenous Rights, Intellectual Property Law and Policy, Sustainable International Development Law, Tax Law, and Technology Law. Arizona State University also offers an M.L.S. Seattle University School of Law offers a Master of Legal Studies degree as of 2016. The John Marshall Law School in Chicago, and the Albany Law School in New York, both offer M.S. degrees in several concentrations. The Vermont Law School offers a Masters of Environmental Law and Policy (MELP) degree (formally known as the Master of Studies in Environmental Law (MSEL) degree). As of 2011, UC Hastings will be offering a Master of Studies in Law (MSL) and LLM in Law, Science and Health Policy programs together with the University of California, San Francisco. Since 2004, Friends University has offered a Master of Studies in Business Law (MSBL). Santa Barbara & Ventura Colleges of Law introduced their Master of Legal Studies (M.L.S.) program entirely online in 2012, and can be completed in under two years. Willamette University College of Law in Oregon offers a one-year Master of Legal Studies (MLS) program designed for professionals whose job involves working within a legal or regulatory framework. Trinity Law School recently introduced an online MLS program that can be taken as a general degree or with one of five emphases, most of which focus on Christian topics such as bioethics, Church and Ministry Management, and Human Rights. Loyola University Chicago School of Law offers M.J. degrees in Children's Law & Policy (online), Compliance & Enterprise Risk Management (online), Health Law (online), and Rule of Law for Development. \n\nFrom the mid-1970s until 2004, there was also a unique M.S.L. program at Yale Law School for journalists. The program was a competitive fellowship offered to three or four applicants a year, chosen by the university. Yale provided free tuition, and the fellows also received a living stipend provided originally by the Ford Foundation and later by the John S. and James L. Knight Foundation. A number of reporters who currently cover the Supreme Court or other law-related issues for major mainstream media organizations are former fellows, including Barbara Bradley of NPR (1994), Linda Greenhouse of the New York Times (1978), Charles Lane (journalist) of the Washington Post (1997), Neil A. Lewis of the New York Times (1979), Charlie Savage of the Boston Globe (2003), and Viveca Novak of Time Magazine (1986). The program lost its funding after the 2003-04 academic year when the Knight Foundation declined to renew its grant, but is still offered to doctoral students and graduates and journalists on a tuition basis. M.L.S programs offered through Stanford Law School and the University of Arizona's James E. Rogers College of Law provide the opportunity for interdisciplinary research as well as a foundational legal education in U.S. law.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55334518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55334518", "title": "Ministry of Justice (Tajikistan)", "text": "Ministry of Justice (Tajikistan)\n\nEstablished in 1925, the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Tajikistan is the executive body implementing the state policy and normative legal regulation in the sphere of regulatory, legal aid to the citizens, promotion of legal and criminal justice, and judicial and criminal prosecutions. The ministry also works with other justice ministries around the world to prosecute criminals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39168178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39168178", "title": "NIH Public Access Policy", "text": "NIH Public Access Policy\n\nThe NIH Public Access Policy is an open access mandate, drafted in 2004 and mandated in 2008, requiring that research papers describing research funded by the National Institutes of Health must be available to the public free through PubMed Central within 12 months of publication. PubMed Central is the self-archiving repository in which authors or their publishers deposit their publications. Copyright is retained by the usual holders, but authors may submit papers with one of the Creative Commons licenses.\n\nThe NIH Public Access Policy applies Division G, Title II, Section 218 of PL 110-161 () which states:\n\nThe policy was initially implemented by the NIH as a voluntary policy in 2004. Deposit was then mandated on January 11, 2008, effective April 7, 2008. Later in 2008, the mandatory policy was codified into law as Division G, Title II, Section 218 of PL 110-161 (Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2008).\n\nThe work must be:\n\n1. Peer reviewed\n\n2. Published or approved for publication by a journal on or after April 7, 2008\n\n3. \"And, arises from:\n\nAuthors hold copyright in their work, and are responsible for making sure that in any agreement with a publisher they keep the right to give PubMed Central a non-exclusive license to make a copy of the paper available. Journals with agreements with NIH submit final published versions of papers. For other publishers, authors are required to submit papers when they are accepted for publication. The NIH grant holder is responsible for ensuring this. The author, publisher, or institution continues to hold the copyright as usual. The author may choose to include the article in the Open Access Subset by using one of the Creative Commons licenses.\n\nPublishers may require that \"public access\" be delayed up to 12 months after publication. Only the author's final draft needs to be published, not any contributions made by the publisher. PubMed Central is the designated repository for papers submitted in accordance with the NIH Public Access Policy and for those that fall under similar policies from other funding agencies.\n\nBy April 2014, the NIH had increased enforcement of compliance with its Public Access Policy by delaying continuing grant payments for noncompliance.\n\nPeter Suber described the policy as \"the first open access mandate for a major public funding agency in the United States; it is also the first one for a public funding agency anywhere in the world that was demanded by the national legislature rather than initiated and adopted independently by the agency.\"\n\nIn the first few years after the policy was introduced, there were two major legislative efforts to reverse it, primarily driven by some publishers' objections. According to Patrick Ross, the director of the Copyright Alliance: \"The mere fact that a scientist accepts as part of her funding a federal grant should not enable the federal government to commandeer the resulting research paper and treat it as a public domain work.\" The Fair Copyright in Research Works Act was a bill sponsored by John Conyers in 2008 and 2009 that sought to reverse the NIH policy. It failed to leave committee either year. In 2011 the Research Works Act was introduced to end the policy. It died after protests from the academic community and science publisher Elsevier's withdrawal of support.\n\nIn 2013 a survey of persons receiving NIH funding and therefore subject to the NIH Public Access policy reported that among 94 respondents, 30% had little understanding of the NIH Public Access Policy and all but two of them said that they accepted the default terms of their copyright forms \"as is\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5156876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5156876", "title": "National Library of Poland", "text": "National Library of Poland\n\nThe National Library of Poland () is the central Polish library, subject directly to the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage of the Republic of Poland.\n\nThe library collects books, journals, electronic and audiovisual publications published in the territory of Poland, as well as Polonica published abroad. It is the most important humanities research library, the main archive of Polish writing and the state centre of bibliographic information about books. It also plays a significant role as a research facility and is an important methodological center for other Polish libraries.\n\nThe National Library receives a copy of every book published in Poland as legal deposit. The Jagiellonian Library is the only other library in Poland to have a national library status.\n\nThere are three general sections:\n\nThe National Library's history has origins in the 18th century (Załuski Library) including items from the collections of John III Sobieski which were obtained from his grand daughter Maria Karolina Sobieska, Duchess of Bouillon. However, the Załuski collection was confiscated by troops of Russian tsarina Catherine II in the aftermath of the second Partition of Poland and sent to Saint Petersburg, where the books formed the mass of the Imperial Public Library on its formation in 1795. Parts of the collection were damaged or destroyed as they were mishandled while being removed from the library and transported to Russia, and many were stolen. According to the historian Joachim Lelewel, the Zaluskis' books, \"could be bought at Grodno by the basket\".\n\nBecause of that, when Poland regained her independence in 1918, there was no central institution to serve in the capacity of a national library. On 24 February 1928, by the decree of president Ignacy Mościcki, the National Library was created in its modern form. It was opened in 1930 and initially had 200 thousand volumes. Its first Director General was Stefan Demby, succeeded in 1934 by Stefan Vrtel-Wierczyński. The collections of the library were rapidly extended. For instance, in 1932 president Mościcki donated all of the books and manuscripts from the Wilanów Palace Museum to the library, some 40 thousand volumes and 20 thousand pictures from the collection of Stanisław Kostka Potocki.\n\nInitially the National Library lacked a seat of its own. Because of that, the collections had to be accommodated in several places. The main reading room was located in the newly built library building of the Warsaw School of Economics. In 1935 the Potocki Palace in Warsaw became home for the special collections. A new, purpose-built building for the library was planned in what is now the Pole Mokotowskie, in a planned monumental \"Government District\". However, its construction was hampered by the outbreak of World War II.\n\nBefore World War II, the library collections consisted of:\n\n\nIn 1940 the Nazi occupants changed the National Library into Municipal Library of Warsaw and divided it as follows:\n\n\nIn 1944 the special collections were set ablaze by the Nazi occupants as a part of repressions after the Warsaw Uprising. 80,000 early printed books, including priceless 16th-18th century Polonica, 26,000 manuscripts, 2,500 incunables, 100,000 drawings and engravings, 50,000 pieces of sheet music and theatre materials were destroyed. It is estimated that out of over 6 million volumes in Warsaw's major libraries in 1939, 3.6 million volumes were lost during World War II, a large part of them belonging to the National Library.\n\nToday the collections of the National Library are one of the largest in the country. Among 7,900,000 volumes (2004) held in the library are 160,000 objects printed before 1801, over 26,000 manuscripts (including 6,887 music manuscripts), over 114,000 music prints and 400,000 drawings. The library collections also include photographs and other iconographic documents, more than 101,000 atlases and maps, over 2,000,000 ephemera, as well as over 2,000,000 books and about 800,000 copies of journals from 19th to 21st centuries. Notable items in the collection include 151 leaves of the \"Codex Suprasliensis\", which was inscribed in UNESCO's Memory of the World Programme Register in 2007 in recognition for its supranational and supraregional significance.\n\nIn 2012 the library signed an agreement to add 1.3 million Polish library records to WorldCat.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "70935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=70935", "title": "Parliamentary procedure", "text": "Parliamentary procedure\n\nParliamentary procedure is the body of rules, ethics and customs governing meetings and other operations of clubs, organizations, legislative bodies and other deliberative assemblies.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, Canada, Ireland, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa and other English-speaking countries it is often called \"chairmanship\", \"chairing\", the \"law of meetings\", \"procedure at meetings\" or the \"conduct of meetings\". In the United States, parliamentary procedure is also referred to as \"parliamentary law\", \"parliamentary practice\", \"legislative procedure\" or \"rules of order\".\n\nAt its heart is the rule of the majority with respect for the minority. Its object is to allow deliberation upon questions of interest to the organization and to arrive at the sense or the will of the assembly upon these questions. Self-governing organizations follow parliamentary procedure to debate and reach group decisions—usually by vote—with the least possible friction.\n\nRules of order consist of rules written by the body itself (often referred to as bylaws), but also usually supplemented by a published parliamentary authority adopted by the body. Typically, national, state/provincial and other full-scale legislative assemblies have extensive internally written rules of order, whereas non-legislative bodies write and adopt a limited set of specific rules as the need arises.\n\nThe term gets its name from its use in the parliamentary system of government.\n\nIn the 16th and 17th century, there were rules of order in the early Parliaments of England. In the 1560s Sir Thomas Smyth began the process of writing down accepted procedures and published a book about them for the House of Commons in 1583. Early rules included\n\nThe Westminster parliamentary procedures are followed in several Commonwealth countries, including the United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, India, and South Africa.\n\nIn Canada, for example, Parliament uses \"House of Commons Procedure and Practice\" as its primary procedural authority. Others include Arthur Beauchesne’s \"Parliamentary Rules and Forms of the House of Commons of Canada\", Sir John George Bourinot’s \"Parliamentary Procedure and Practice in the Dominion of Canada\", and Erskine May’s \"The Law, Privileges, Proceedings and Usage of Parliament from Britain\".\n\nThe rules of the United States Congress were developed from the parliamentary procedures used in Britain. The American parliamentary procedures are followed in many nations, including Indonesia, the Philippines, Mexico and South Korea.\n\nThe procedures of the Diet of Japan have moved away from the British parliamentary model. In Occupied Japan, there were efforts to bring Japanese parliamentary procedures more in line with American congressional practices. In Japan, informal negotiations are more important than formal procedures.\n\nWritten codes of rules govern in Italy the life of the Houses of the Parliament: on the limits beyond which these regulations cannot go, exceeding the parliamentary or political function, judge is the Constitutional Court (judgement n. 120 of 2014).\n\nParliamentary procedure is based on the principles of allowing the majority to make decisions effectively and efficiently (majority rule), while ensuring fairness towards the minority and giving each member or delegate the right to voice an opinion.\nVoting determines the will of the assembly. While each assembly may create their own set of rules, these sets tend to be more alike than different. A common practice is to adopt a standard reference book on parliamentary procedure and modify it through special rules of order that supersede the adopted authority.\n\nA parliamentary structure conducts business through motions, which cause actions. Members bring business before the assembly by introducing main motions, or dispose of this business through subsidiary motions and incidental motions. Parliamentary procedure also allows for rules in regards to nomination, voting, disciplinary action, appeals, dues, and the drafting of organization charters, constitutions, and bylaws.\n\nThe most common procedural authority in use in the United States is \"Robert's Rules of Order\". Other authorities include \"The Standard Code of Parliamentary Procedure\" (used by some medical and library organizations) \nand \"Demeter's Manual of Parliamentary Law and Procedure\".\n\nA common text in use in the UK, particularly within trade unions, is Lord Citrine's \"ABC of Chairmanship\".\n\nIn English-speaking Canada, popular authorities include Kerr & King's \"Procedures for Meeting and Organizations\". The Conservative Party of Canada uses \"Wainberg's Society meetings including rules of order\" to run its internal affairs.\n\nIn French-speaking Canada, commonly used rules of order for ordinary societies include Victor Morin's \"Procédures des assemblées délibérantes\" (commonly known as the \"Code Morin\") and the \"Code CSN\".\n\nLegislative assemblies in all countries, because of their nature, tend to have a specialized set of rules that differ from parliamentary procedure used by clubs and organizations.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, Thomas Erskine May's \"\" (often referred to simply as \"Erskine May\") is the accepted authority on the powers and procedures of the Westminster parliament. There are also the Standing Orders for each House.\n\nOf the 99 state legislative chambers in the United States (two for each state except Nebraska, which has a unicameral legislature), \"Mason's Manual of Legislative Procedure\" governs parliamentary procedures in 70; \"Jefferson's Manual\" governs 13, and \"Robert's Rules of Order\" governs four. The United States Senate follows the Standing Rules of the United States Senate, while the United States House of Representatives follows \"Jefferson's Manual\".\n\n\"Mason's Manual\", originally written by constitutional scholar and former California Senate staff member Paul Mason in 1935, and since his death revised and published by the National Conference of State Legislatures (NCSL), governs legislative procedures in instances where the state constitution, state statutes, and the chamber's rules are silent.\n\nAccording to the NCSL, one of the many reasons that most state legislatures use \"Mason's Manual\" instead of \"Robert's Rules of Order\" is because \"Robert's Rules\" applies best to private organizations and civic groups that do not meet in daily public sessions. \"Mason's Manual\", however, is geared specifically toward state legislative bodies.\n\nIn the United States, individuals who are proficient in parliamentary procedure are called parliamentarians (in other English-speaking countries with parliamentary forms of government, \"parliamentarian\" refers to a member of Parliament).\n\nSeveral organizations offer certification programs for parliamentarians, including the National Association of Parliamentarians and American Institute of Parliamentarians. Agriculture teachers who coach teams in the National FFA Organization (formerly Future Farmers of America) parliamentary procedure contest can earn the title Associate Parliamentarian (AP). Parliamentarians perform an important role in many meetings, including counseling organizations on parliamentary law, holding elections, or writing amendments to the constitution and bylaws of an organization.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12387924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12387924", "title": "Parmalat bankruptcy timeline", "text": "Parmalat bankruptcy timeline\n\nIn 2003, multinational Italian dairy and food corporation Parmalat collapsed with a €14 billion ($20bn; £13bn) hole in its accounts in what remains Europe's biggest bankruptcy. Parmalat bankruptcy hugely affected Football team AC Parma, where Parmalat was the major shareholder.\n\nDecember 19 - Bank of America states Parmalat does not hold nearly $5B in liquid assets for the company as Parmalat reported in September 2003. Bank of America disavows the document released by Parmalat's Bonlat Financing Corp unit claiming over €4B are being stored by an affiliate of the company in the Cayman Islands. The bank promptly notifies Grant Thornton that no such account exists. The Milan Stock Exchange halts trading of Parmalat shares.\n\nDecember 23 - Bank of America lawyers claim the document proclaiming Bank of America holds Parmalat assets is a forgery.\n\nDecember 24 - Parmalat files bankruptcy. S&P rates Bank of America's exposure as \"significant, but manageable\". Investigators put Parmalat's debts as high as $12.8B.\n\nJanuary 12 - Luca Sala, former head of the Italian corporate finance division denies wrongdoing and maintains that he did not aid Parmalat executives in sustaining the price of Parmalat securities despite knowing the state of its finances. Prosecutors believe the executives constructed a series of shell companies and used forged documents to conceal losses and divert cash. Sala was linked to a $500M Parmalat bond issued by Bank of America and other banks.\n\nJanuary 26 - Hoefer & Arnet stock analyst Dick Bove rates Bank of America's stock as a strong buy, but warned that \"very disturbing signs are emerging that Bank of America’s internal discipline has broken down\". He believes that the bank's estimated $274M exposure to the scandal, $244 million of which is locked in loans and letters of credit, could have been prevented.\n\nJanuary 29 - Bank of America files a petition to close the Irish financing unit of Parmalat, known as Eurofood IFSC Ltd. \"to protect its interests as a creditor to Eurofood\". Bank of America is owed more than $3.5M by Eurofood at this time.\n\nFebruary 24 - For the first time Bank of America, along with Citigroup, Morgan Stanley, Deutsche Bank, UBS AG, and several Italian banks, becomes a formal target of the Italian investigation surrounding the Parmalat bankruptcy.\n\nFebruary 24 - Three of Parmalat's U.S. affiliates, Parmalat USA Corp., Farmland Dairies, and Milk Products of Alabama, file for bankruptcy protection with combined assets of $414.4M and combined debt of $316.5M.\n\nFebruary 27 - Luca Sala admits to and offers to forfeit most of the $27M he misappropriated in a kickback scheme at Parmalat, but still maintains the bank was unaware of his improprieties. The SEC travels to Italy to assist Italian officials in deciphering American involvement in the collapse of Parmalat.\n\nMarch 5 - Parmalat seeks $618M from U.S. banks in order to recover assets from creditors under an Italian claw-back law known as \"revocatoria\". This law enables insolvent companies to seize assets counterparts received during transaction with them, usually back as much as five years. At this point, Parmalat's debt is believed to be upwards of $17B.\n\nMarch 18 - An Italian judge is asked by prosecutors to order 29 executives and three companies to stand trial on four separate charges. Three executives from Bank of America, Luca Sala, Luis Moncada, and Antonio Luzi, are included in the order. In addition to Bank of America, the Italian affiliates of Deloitte & Touche and Grant Thornton are also ordered to court. Prosecutors believe Bank of America should have been aware of the financial problems at Parmalat when it issued €1.2B, or nearly $1.5B, in its bonds over the past seven years. A fast-track trial was sought, but an Italian court denied expediting proceedings.\n\nMay 24 - Creditors file a $10B class-action lawsuit against former auditors and banks of Parmalat in the U.S. District Court in Manhattan. Charges include \"fraudulent activity and giving misleading information\". Hermes, a British pension fund holding more than 2% of Parmalat shares, and Deminor, a European shareholder rights group representing Parmalat bondholders, headed the suit.\n\nOctober 7 - Parmalat sues Bank of America for $10B in damages, as it had in July 2004 against Citigroup and in August 2004 against Deloitte & Touche and Grant Thornton. \n\nOctober 19 - Parmalat investors name Bank of America as a defendant in an $8B class-action suit in New York. A previous class-action suit filed on behalf of Parmalat investors was joined into this new suit. \n\nOctober 29 - Bank of America asks an Italian court to include itself as a co-plaintiff in the case against 32 executives, auditors, and lenders in a Milan courtroom, despite the ongoing investigation into Bank of America's involvement in the Parmalat collapse. Bank of America denies any wrongdoing in the matter and is considering filing its own countersuit against Parmalat.\n\nDecember 17 - Bank of America, still being sued for a combined $18B by Parmalat and its investors, is named as one of Parmalat's creditors to the tune of $163M. This means Bank of America can take part, as all creditors can, in a debt-for-equity swap under Parmalat's restructuring plan. This makes Bank of America a shareholder in the company when it emerges from bankruptcy.\n\nJanuary 25 - An Italian court bars Bank of America from claiming damages resulting from Parmalat's bankruptcy. The bank may still file as a damaged civil party if a future trial occurs.\n\nJuly 14 - The $8B class-action lawsuit brought in Manhattan federal court on behalf of Parmalat investors is dismissed. Judge Lewis Kaplan's 74-page decision asserts that Bank of America did not know Parmalat was in financial trouble and thus could not profit off the company's downturn. The judge did not dismiss claims included in the suit against Citigroup, Banca Nazionale del Lavoro SpA, or Credit Suisse First Boston.\n\nAugust 2 - Luca Sala is arrested by Italian authorities for his involvement in the bankruptcy when he was head of Bank of America's Italian corporate banking division and after he became a consultant at Parmalat in 2003. \n\nAugust 9 - A U.S. judge rules Parmalat can proceed with its $10B suit against Bank of America on charges of aiding & abetting break of fiduciary duty and looting of the company. The suit was propelled forward despite Bank of America's protest that a company cannot be sued for fraud by the company perpetrating the fraud in question. Judge Lewis Kaplan dismissed the protest because the precedent called into question was an application of New York law. \n\nAugust 18 - After 16 days, Luca Sala is released from pre-trial custody in Italy after it was determined that he could no longer tamper with evidence. The current charges against him stem from $63.5M in siphoned funds from Parmalat to private accounts. Sala denies stealing the money, instead claiming he earned some of it in commissions from insurance and private-placement contracts he handled for Parmalat.\n\nNovember 28 - Three Cayman Islands-based companies sue Bank of America for its role in the collapse of Parmalat. Charges include financial improprieties including fraud, negligent misrepresentation, & breach of fiduciary duty. The suit claims Bank of America generated millions of dollars in fees and interest when it orchestrated financial transactions designed to disguise Parmalat's insolvency. The claim seeks nearly $1B from Bank of America, Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu & Grant Thornton.\n\nDecember 20 - Bank of America is granted the ability to join other plaintiffs in an Italian lawsuit against Parmalat. This is possible due to the condition that Bank of America is entitled to treatment as a damaged party in any civil suit as set forth on 2005-01-25.\n\nFebruary 10 - After amending the lawsuit brought by Parmalat investors against former auditors and banks of the bankrupt company, Judge Lewis Kaplan gives the OK for Bank of America to be sued for its role in helping Parmalat commit securities fraud. The suit centers around a $300M loan made to Parmalat's Brazilian subsidiary and a 2001 change to an insurance policy for Parmalat Venezuela. Bank of America states that it \"believed it was dealing with a strong, honest, and profitable company and had no knowledge of the fraud perpetrated by Parmalat and its senior management\".\n\nMarch 30 - Judge Lewis Kaplan of the Southern District of New York has ruled Bank of America may seek up to $1B in damages from Parmalat. The ruling allows Bank of America to claim Parmalat committed fraud, misrepresentation, conspiracy, and other illegal acts.\n\nMarch 26 - Some of the counterclaims brought by Bank of America against Parmalat, including racketeering and North Carolina deceptive-trade practices laws are dismissed by Judge Lewis Kaplan in New York federal district court. \"Bank of America’s counterclaims for fraud, negligent misrepresentation, securities fraud, and civil conspiracy…will go forward, \" stated Bank of America spokesman Timothy Gilles, \"…and they are significantly more important than the secondary claims that were dismissed.\" \n\nJune 22 - U.S. Federal Bankruptcy Court in New York grants a permanent injunction against claims by creditors, including Bank of America. It came as a defeat for bondholders and their $868M in claims. The injunction will not apply outside the U.S. or to any Parmalat affiliates or subsidiaries not restructuring under Italian bankruptcy law.\n\nJune 25 - Bank of America representatives in Milan, Italy release a statement claiming the bank lost $450M from the Parmalat collapse.\n\nJuly 6 - An Italian judge ordered Bank of America, Citigroup, Morgan Stanley, Deutsche Bank, and UBS AG to stand trial in January 2008. The specific charges against Bank of America are in connection with an Italian law through which a company can be charged for not having proper governance controls in place to prevent illegal actions by employees. Specifically, Bank of America's accountability is held to its inability to prevent three former employees from market rigging.\n\nJuly 27 - A U.S. Federal bankruptcy judge in New York dismisses claims by foreign investors that the bank knew the Italian company was in financial dire straits and profited from that information. This decision effectively limits the lawsuits to Parmalat investors who reside in the United States. This verdict also is extensible to Citigroup Inc., Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu and Grant Thornton. The $10B suit brought by former Parmalat CEO Enrico Bondi is still being disputed at this time.\n\nAugust 10 - U.S. District Judge Lewis Kaplan in New York dismisses suits against Bank of America, Credit Suisse, and Grant Thornton brought by two U.S. subsidiaries of Parmalat, Parmalat USA Corp and Farmland Dairies. This extends the former ruling against Parmalat to include its domestic subsidiaries.\n\nAugust 12 - U.S. District Judge Lewis Kaplan subsequently dismisses the lawsuit brought against Bank of America by Parmalat investors. Kaplan stated that a Supreme Court ruling earlier in the year \"made plain that investors must show reliance upon a defendant’s own deceptive conduct before that defendant, otherwise a secondary actor, may be found primarily liable\" and the suit failed to meet that standard.\n\nJanuary 13 - Bank of America is acquitted in an Italian court of all charges drawn from activities prior to April 2002. There was not a law prior to this time which dictated the administrative responsibilities of a corporation. Charging Bank of America for actions (or lack thereof) prior to enactment of the law would thus be a case of ex post facto.\n\nJuly 28 - Bank of America agrees to pay $100M to settle the original $10B lawsuit brought by Parmalat, its subsidiaries, and its investors. The settlement contains both a cash and non-cash component. Bank of America admitted no wrongdoing in settling the case.\n\nOctober 2 - Bank of America provides settlement payment to Parmalat in the amount of US$98.5MM.\n"}
{"id": "2634005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2634005", "title": "Personal injury", "text": "Personal injury\n\nPersonal injury is a legal term for an injury to the body, mind or emotions, as opposed to an injury to property.\n\nIn Anglo-American jurisdictions the term is most commonly used to refer to a type of tort lawsuit in which the person bringing the suit, or \"plaintiff,\" has suffered harm to his or her body or mind. Personal injury lawsuits are filed against the person or entity that caused the harm through negligence, gross negligence, reckless conduct, or intentional misconduct, and in some cases on the basis of strict liability. Different jurisdictions describe the damages (or, the things for which the injured person may be compensated) in different ways, but damages typically include the injured person's medical bills, pain and suffering, and diminished quality of life.\n\nCommon types of personal injury claims include road traffic accidents, work accidents, tripping accidents, assault claims, and product defect accidents (product liability). The term \"personal injury\" also incorporates medical and dental accidents (which may lead to medical negligence claims ) and conditions that are often classified as industrial disease cases, including asbestosis and peritoneal mesothelioma, chest diseases (e.g., emphysema, pneumoconiosis, silicosis, chronic bronchitis, asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, and chronic obstructive airways disease), vibration white finger, occupational deafness, occupational stress, contact dermatitis, and repetitive strain injury cases. Of these, the most common are automobile collisions. Personal injury cases may also include toxic torts, in which a contaminant transmitted by air or water causes illness, injury, or death (as in John Grisham's book, A Civil Action).\n\nSome non-economical damages such as pain and suffering attributed to the damages, like for example having anxiety after a car accident, may be attributed to general damages that can be proved in court and may be entitled to monetary means of compensation. There are other torts, both intentional and non-intentional, that may be pursued and or mixed with personal injury.\n\nDepending upon the intent or negligence of a responsible party, the injured party may be entitled to monetary compensation from that party through a settlement or a judgment.\n\nAlthough personal injury cases may result from an intentional act, such as defamation, or from reckless conduct, most personal injury claims are based on a theory of negligence. To hold a party or parties legally liable for injuries so damages based upon negligence, four elements must be proved:\nThe amount of compensation for a personal injury will primarily depend on the severity of the injury. Serious injuries (such as broken bones, severed limbs, brain damage) that cause intense physical pain and suffering receive the highest injury settlements.\n\nAs occurs in most civil cases, personal injury cases begin by filing with a court a document called a \"complaint.\" Typically, a complaint in a personal injury case identifies the parties to the lawsuit, specifies what the defendant did wrong, alleges that the wrongdoing caused the plaintiff's injury, and specifies what kind of compensation the plaintiff is seeking. The complaint generally sets out the facts that the plaintiff will attempt to prove, and the defendant may attempt to disprove, throughout the litigation.\n\nIn most countries, payments will be through a settlement agreement or a judgment as a result of a trial. Settlements can be either lump-sum or as a structured settlement in which the payments are made over a period of time.\n\nIn some countries, those prevailing in trial may recover their attorneys' fees from the opposing party. In the United States A party may be able to seek sanctions when the other party acts without legal basis or justifiable cause. For example, if the opposing party continues to object to the complaint without significant reason or justifiable cause, a party may apply a motion for punitive damages or that the opposing party is harassing and or speculating without merit or reason.\n\nThe manner in which attorneys are compensated for representing injured plaintiffs varies by jurisdiction. For example, in the United States, attorneys often represent clients on a \"contingent fee basis\" in which the attorney's fee is a percentage of the plaintiff's eventual compensation, payable when the case is resolved, with no payment necessary if the case is unsuccessful. Depending upon state regulations, a plaintiff's attorney may charge 1/3 of the proceeds recovered if a case is settled out of court or 40 percent if the matter must be litigated. Attorney fees are negotiable before hiring an attorney.\n\nAlthough some jurisdictions have historically helped people obtain affordable legal representation, those systems have typically been narrowed and may exclude personal injury cases. For example, in England legal aid from the government was largely abolished in the late 1990s and replaced with arrangements whereby the client would be charged no fee if her or his case was unsuccessful.\n\nIn California, attorneys typically receive contingency fees of 35% of the total recovery obtained before a lawsuit is filed, and 45% if the recovery occurs after filing the complaint. In some types of cases, the judge handling the case may determine the total percentage of the settlement or the payment to the attorneys. Treating doctors or health care profession and/or insurance companies, Med-Cal, or other program paying for medical treatment may assert a lien against any recovery for what was paid to treat the plaintiff. These liens are paid once a settlement is reached or a judgment is received.\n\nMany jurisdictions have statutes of limitations - laws that determine how much time you have to file a claim. If a lawsuit is not filed in a timely manner the statute of limitations provides a defense that can allow the defendant to have the case dismissed with no compensation to the plaintiff.\n\nIn England and Wales, under the limitation rules, where an individual is bringing a claim for compensation, court proceedings must be commenced within 3 years of the date of the accident, failing which the claimant will lose the right to bring his or her claim. However, injured parties who were under the age of 18 at the time of their accidents have until the day prior to their 21st birthdays to commence proceedings. A court has the discretion to extend or waive the limitation period if it is considered equitable to do so. Another exception is if the accident caused an injury, as an example industrial deafness, then the three-year period will start from when injured party knew or ought to have known that he or she had a claim.\n\nIn the United States, each state has different statutes of limitation, and within a state different types of injuries may have different statutes of limitation. Rape claims, for example, often have a much longer statute of limitation than other injuries. In some states such as Colorado, the statute of limitations starts to run once the injury is discovered. For example, if you were in a car accident and then 6 months later started having severe back problems, the statute would start when you noticed the injury.\n\nIn California, according to California Code of Civil Procedure Section 335, the statute of limitations in California is 2 years from the date of loss. A date of loss refers to the date in which the accident has happened. Minors in California who are filing a claim against an entity or person has until 2 years after their 18th birthday to satisfy the statute of limitations. For governmental claims, both minors and adults have 6 months to file a claim with its corresponding jurisdiction according to Government Code section 911.2. After filing a claim to satisfy Government Code Section 911.2, you have an additional 6 months to file a lawsuit against a government entity. \n\nIn India, in case of motor vehicle accidents there is no time limitation for bringing a claim for compensation.\n\nDamages are categorized as either special or general. In torts, special damages are measurable costs which can be itemized such as medical expenses, lost earnings, and property damages whereas general damages include less measurable costs such as pain and suffering, loss of consortium, the effects of defamation, and emotional distress. Personal injury torts may result in claims for both special and general damages.\n\nAside from compensation for injuries, the injured person may get compensated for the lifetime effect of the injuries. An example, a keen cricketer suffers a wrist injury which prevents him from playing cricket during the cricket season. This is called loss of enjoyment of life and is compensable. Additionally, lost earning capacity (Future ability to learn) and future reasonably necessary medical expenses are recoverable.\n\nIn some cases, the injured might run his or her own businesses. The quantum assessment of the loss of profits (dividing into pre-trial and post-trial) requires forensic accounting expertise because the forensic accountant would consider various scenarios and adopt the best estimate based on the available objective data.\n\nFor wrongful death cases in California, people qualify to claim damages if they are the following: (1) the deceased person's surviving spouse; (2) the deceased person's domestic partner; (3) the deceased person' s surviving children; or (3) if there is no surviving person in the deceased person's line of descent, then a wrongful death lawsuit may be brought by anyone \"who would be entitled to the property of the decedent by intestate succession,\" which can include the deceased person's parents, or the deceased person's siblings, depending on who is living at the time of the deceased person's death. (California Code of Civil Procedure section 337.60). Otherwise a plaintiff will have to prove that financially dependency on the deceased person.\n\nFor automobile accidents in California, a plaintiff must show proof of financial responsibility (California Vehicle Code sections 16000-16078) and have a valid driver's license to claim economical and non-economical damages. Proving the minimum financial responsibility means that a person must be insured by the state's minimum coverage of insurance, which in some cases may be referred to \"limited liability\" type of insurance. If the person at fault cannot prove financial responsibility, a plaintiff may be unable to obtain damages as the person at fault may not be properly financially able to pay for those damages.\n\nSome jurisdictions offer no fault compensation systems for personal injury cases, or types of personal injury cases, whereby an injured person can recover compensation from a fund or insurance program without regard to who is at fault for the person's injury. For example, in the United States, most injuries that occur while the injured person is working for an employer are compensated through a no-fault workers' compensation system. In New Zealand, the Accident Compensation Corporation provides no-fault compensation to all accident victims (including medical malpractice), and personal injury lawsuits are rare (except in cases of reckless conduct). Proponents of this system say that it results in faster, fairer awards to victims. In practice, it allows people to engage in behavior they otherwise wouldn't out of fear of legal liability, such as putting out a trampoline for neighborhood kids to use.\n\nPersonal injury cases represent the most common type of lawsuits filed in United States federal district courts, representing 25.5 percent of cases filed in 2015. Personal injury claims represent a considerably smaller percentage of cases filed in state courts. For example, in Illinois, tort claims represent approximately 7% of the civil docket.\n\nIn the United States, personal injury in the sense of \"bodily injury\" to others is often covered by liability insurance. Most businesses carry commercial general liability policies. Different states have different rules regarding auto insurance, but generally, a driver's liability insurance is available to compensate others whom that driver may inadvertently injure, and uninsured or underinsured motorist coverage is available to compensate the driver for injuries inflicted upon the driver by someone else. Therefore, an insurance company will provide a legal defense to the defendant and may settle with the plaintiff (victim).\n\nAdditional damages for mental injury without a physical injury are less clearly covered, as the insurance policy typically states that it covers only bodily injury. For example, in general liability as of 2001 a minority of courts included emotional distress within the definition bodily injury. Where a mental injury arises from a physical injury—as with a traumatic brain injury caused by a car accident—auto insurance policies normally cover the injury.\n\nIn insurance, \"personal injury,\" as typically defined, does not include mental injury that occurs as a result of defamation, false arrest or imprisonment, or malicious prosecution. For example, the Insurance Services Office standard general liability form has a section providing this coverage. Some home insurance policies include personal injury coverage.\n\nDespite the general distinction between bodily injury and personal injury in insurance contracts, auto insurance known as personal injury protection (PIP) does cover medical expenses from bodily injury. This type of insurance is available in some states, but not others.\n\nIn the United States, for federal taxes payable to the IRS, the money awarded in a personal injury settlement as compensation for pain and suffering, medical expenses and property damage is not ordinarily taxable. Exceptions may apply, for example, if a plaintiff took a tax deduction in a prior year for medical expenses that are recovered through a later judgment or settlement. \n\nCompensation for lost wages or lost business profits will typically be taxed.\n\n"}
{"id": "38476856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38476856", "title": "Pharmacy Competition and Consumer Choice Act of 2011", "text": "Pharmacy Competition and Consumer Choice Act of 2011\n\nPharmacy Competition and Consumer Choice Act of 2011 (\"H.R. 1971\") is the legislation that was introduced in the 112th United States Congress on May 24, 2011, with the full title of the bill stating to \"amend the Public Health Service Act to ensure transparency and proper operation of pharmacy benefit managers\". The chief sponsor of the legislation was Republican Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA5), while other notable co-sponsors include Democrat Anthony Weiner (D-NY9), Republican Austin Scott (R-GA8), Democrat Jesse Jackson, Jr. (D-IL2) and Republican Tom Marino (R-PA10).\n\nSupport for the bill came from the National Community Pharmacists Association (NCPA). In a press release dated on May 24, 2011, NCPA writes that the bill would protect patients' ability to go to the pharmacy of their choice, eliminate needless pharmaceutical spending and allow legitimate anti-fraud oversight, while avoiding abusive pharmacy audits.\n\nOpposition to the bill came from the Pharmaceutical Care Management Association (PCMA), with arguing that in efforts to carve drugstores out of the national fight against health care fraud, independent drugstores are demanding new laws to limit the use of audits and other tools used to detect pharmacy fraud. They state that with 93% of community pharmacy revenue being derived from prescriptions versus the front-end, those pharmacists also share a greater sensitivity to any changes in prescription drug reimbursement, and consequently any changes in federal or state programs would disproportionately affect these small-business owners.\n\nOn April 24, 2012, Americans for Tax Reform and the Cost of Government Center sent a letter to the legislation's chief sponsor, Cathy McMorris Rodgers, arguing that H.R. 1971 takes the wrong approach to pharmaceutical industry oversight reform while preventing pharmaceutical benefit managers from investigating and stopping prescription drug fraud as well as medicare fraud, waste and abuse. However, McMorris Rodgers responded that the bill would increase competition and promote transparency, and it would make the delivery of pharmacy services much more efficient.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26610577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26610577", "title": "Power-control theory of gender and delinquency", "text": "Power-control theory of gender and delinquency\n\nIn criminology, the power-control theory of gender and delinquency (abbreviated as the power-control theory) holds the gender distribution of delinquency is caused by stratification from gender relations within the family. The theory seeks to explain gender differences in the rates of delinquency by attributing them to the level of social/parental control practiced. The theory states that the class, gender, and type of family structure (e.g. egalitarian or patriarchal) will influence the severity of social/parental control practiced which will in turn set the \"accepted norm\" for the child/individual. This norm will in turn control the level of delinquency by the individual.\n\nPower-control theory differs from other control theories that view crime as a cause of low social status (cited from book). This theory compares gender and parental control mechanisms in two different types of families; patriarchal and egalitarian to explain the differences in self-reported male and female misconduct. In patriarchal families, traditional gender roles were in practice, where the father would work outside the home, and the mother would be responsible for the child rearing. In egalitarian families, the household roles were shared equally between mothers and fathers.\n\nThe theory was originally posited by John Hagan and further developed by A. R. Gillis and John Simpson at the University of Toronto.\n\nThe power control theory was developed through a series of self-report surveys that was administered to high school students and their parents in suburban Toronto. Hagan and his colleagues contended that gender and the social class of the students' parents affected how much freedom these students had. For example, coming of age as they argued, was a more limiting experience than growing up as a male. Thereby, they found that the amount of power a parent had in the workplace was related to the control displayed in the household over their teenaged children. Moreover, parents who had the types of jobs where they must supervise the activities of subordinates also tended to be relatively tolerant of the trouble-making behaviour of their children, especially of their sons. This meant that teenaged boys are freer to deviate than teenaged girls. This study also found, focusing on relatively minor forms of deviance such as shoplifting and breaking street lights, that middle-class youth actually were freer to deviate than working-class youth.\n\nAccording to Julian Tanner, he offers two interesting critical comments. Though the power control theory effectively explains common delinquency among ordinary youth, it does not explain violent and repetitive crime and, therefore, the power control theory cannot predict such behavior. In addition, the power control theory suggests that parents in egalitarian households are more likely to raise females as delinquent than a female growing up in a patriarchal family; however, UCR (uniform crime report) data shows that the opposite association exists and that the involvement in female labor force is actually related to lower levels of female delinquency. Also, after years of refining the power control theory, theorists have found the notion that mothers being more controlling over their daughters are more likely to be found in egalitarian families than patriarchal families, which is the opposite relationship the power control theory would likely predict.\n\nWhen the theory was refined over the years, Singer and Levine (1988) found mixed support for the theory in their early attempts to test this theory. While mothers were seen to be more controlling over their daughters than their sons, the authors also found this to be more so with egalitarian than patriarchal families, which is a finding opposite to what power control theory would predict.\n\nThe theory has been extended into adult social roles as well. Stratified behaviors typically associated with males, particularly those in authoritative positions, are now being seen more frequently in females attaining powerful roles. And like their male counterparts, their power is used to control those persons in subordinate roles, as indicated by the rise in reports of sexual harassment (cougar syndrome) and cronyism.\n\nDespite the explanation of social roles, there has not been a feminist theory that is fully developed to explain for the uniqueness of female criminality. While males are reported to be more involved in every type of crime, females tend to be arrested for considerably minor property crimes. This is due to the idea that the character and level of female crime is not consistent with the traditional sociological explanations of crime.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35126610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35126610", "title": "President's Commission on Financial Structure and Regulation", "text": "President's Commission on Financial Structure and Regulation\n\nThe President's Commission on Financial Structure and Regulation, also known as the Hunt Commission (and not to be confused with the Hunt Commission of 1980) was a United States Presidential Commission created by President Richard Nixon between April and June 1970 that was \"[r]esponsible for recommending measures to improve operation of the nation's private financial system.\"\n\nChaired by corporate executive Reed Oliver Hunt, it was appointed as a response to disintermediation in the previous year which developed due in part to interest rate caps (Regulation Q) on interest paid on deposits in banks and savings institutions. By limiting deposit interest, Regulation Q prevented banks from competing with rising money market funds (MMF's) that were relatively unregulated and thus able to provide higher returns by investing client funds directly in unsecured commercial paper and repurchase agreements. On December 22, 1971, the Commission's \"Report of the President's Commission on Financial Structure and\" \"Regulation\" was released, the Commission \"laid out an agenda for reform and deregulation\" which influenced legislative proposals by Presidents Nixon, Ford, and Carter, the latter of whom presided over the substantial realization of the Commission's recommendations in 1980 with the Depository Institutions Deregulation and Monetary Control Act, which \"removed most distinctions between commercial banks and thrifts, allowed NOW accounts nationwide, and initiated a phased end to interest rate ceilings.\"\n\nThe Commission heralded the general trend toward deregulation that predominated economic policy for nearly four decades between 1970 and 2008, when the Global Financial Crisis (GFC) revealed the weaknesses of the financial system. Regulation was visibly embraced with the passage of the Dodd–Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act in 2010.\n\nList of Presidential Commissions\n\n"}
{"id": "1227525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1227525", "title": "Receiver of Wreck", "text": "Receiver of Wreck\n\nThe Receiver of Wreck is an official who administers law dealing with maritime wrecks and salvage in some countries having a British administrative heritage. In the United Kingdom, the Receiver of Wreck is also appointed to retain the possession of royal fish on behalf of the British crown. \n\nIn the UK, the \"Receiver of Wreck\", a post defined under the Merchant Shipping Act 1995, is an official of the British Government whose main task is to administer the law in relation to Wreck and Salvage. Operating on behalf of the Department for Transport, the Receiver of Wreck is located within the Maritime and Coastguard Agency. Until 1993, the role was carried out by numerous coastal customs officials. Nowadays, the Receiver is based in Southampton and is helped by local outposts of Her Majesty's Coastguard. The current Receiver of Wreck is Alison Kentuck.\n\nElsewhere in the British Isles, each of the Channel Islands, and the Isle of Man have their own laws of wreck and salvage and their own \"Receiver of Wreck\".\n\nIn the Ireland a \"Receiver of Wreck\" is a Revenue Official appointed by the Minister for Transport with the consent of the Revenue Commissioners whose duty is to deal with any wreck found in or on the shores of the sea or any tidal water or harbour.\n\nCanada has a \"Receiver of Wreck\", authorized by Part VI of the Canada Shipping Act. The Navigation Protection Program of Transport Canada is responsible for administering this program.\n\nTraditionally, salvage was an important economic source in coastal areas and sometimes exposed the savage and merciless nature of those around the coast. Folklore has it that some coastal dwellers enticed ships to a watery grave by luring them onto the rocks. This was known as Wrecking. So that order could be maintained and local people encouraged to save those in peril and their belongings rather than pillage them, Receivers of Wreck were appointed to keep order and reward those who assisted in a wreck event. Historically, Receivers were given powers which allowed them to \"hurt, maim or kill\" anyone obstructing them in their duties. Theoretically at least Receivers of Wreck were permitted to carry weapons with which to defend themselves whilst carrying out their duties up until 1997.\n\nThe Act of 1995 updates the prior Merchant Shipping Act 1894. The Receiver is an official under Admiralty Jurisdiction.\n\nThe main task of the Receiver of Wreck is to process reports of wreck, in the interest of both finder and owner. This involves researching ownership and working with the finder, owner, archaeologists, museums, and other interested parties. The process of reporting wreck provides legal owners the opportunity to be reunited with their property and to ensure that law-abiding finders of wreck receive appropriate recognition in the form of a salvage award.\n\nThe Maritime and Coastguard Agency administers Section 2 of the Protection of Wrecks Act 1973, which protects wrecks that are deemed dangerous by virtue of their contents. There is a strict no entry policy. This is in the interest of safety of both divers and members of the public. There are two wrecks protected under Section 2 of the Act, the SS \"Richard Montgomery\" and the SS \"Castilian\", wrecks from the Second World War which contain dangerous quantities of explosives.\n\nThe Receiver of Wreck also undertakes the task of disposing of \"royal fish\" in England, Wales and Northern Ireland. \"Royal fish\" are dead whales, dolphins, porpoises and sturgeon. This is an ancient right dating back to Edward II's reign which falls under the royal prerogative.\n\nThe Receiver of Wreck's remit is set down in the Merchant Shipping Act 1995, Part IX, Chapters 1-2. It covers wreck from UK territorial waters (within 12 nautical miles), and wreck landed in the UK from outside UK territorial waters. Wreck material includes any part of a vessel, aircraft or hovercraft including any of its cargo or equipment.\n\nAccording to section 255 of the Merchant Shipping Act 1995, wreck includes \"jetsam, flotsam, lagan or derelict\". The Act does not define these terms, but they may be understood as follows:\n\n\nBoats that have come off their moorings are not normally classified as wreck as they have not been abandoned without hope of recovery. Also, buoys including marker buoys, mooring buoys etc., other than those that are fishing equipment, are not normally classed as wreck.\n\nIt is a legal requirement under the Merchant Shipping Act 1995 that all recovered wreck material landed in the United Kingdom must be reported to the Receiver of Wreck, whether recovered from within or outside UK waters and even if the finder is the owner. All wreck material recovered must be reported, however small or insignificant it may seem.\n\nThe Receiver of Wreck will investigate ownership of the recovered items. The owner has one year, after the material has been reported, in which to come forward and prove title to the property. During this period it is common for the finder to hold the wreck on behalf of the Receiver of Wreck while investigations are carried out. Finders should assume that all wreck items have an owner. It is possible for wreck material to be owned by an individual, a company, a dive club, an insurance company, the Ministry of Defence or the Department for Transport.\n\nWreck from UK waters which is still unclaimed at the end of one year becomes the property of the Crown (or grantee of the Crown such as the Duchy of Cornwall). Any person who believes that they are entitled to unclaimed wreck must provide evidence of entitlement to the satisfaction of the Receiver. If wreck from UK territorial waters is unclaimed at the end of one year, the Receiver will dispose of the find on behalf of the Crown. If wreck from outside UK territorial waters is unclaimed at the end of one year, the Crown makes no claim, and the material is returned to the finder. Often the finder is allowed to keep items of unclaimed wreck in lieu of a salvage award.\n\nWreck and Salvage in the UK is covered by three main Acts. These are the Merchant Shipping Act 1995, the Protection of Wrecks Act 1973 and the Protection of Military Remains Act 1986. In simple terms, the Protection of Wrecks Act 1973 and the Protection of Military Remains Act 1986 detail what salvors cannot do, and the Merchant Shipping Act 1995 covers what salvors can or must do.\n\nFor a complete list of wrecks protected under the Protection of Wrecks Act 1973, see List of designations under the Protection of Wrecks Act.\n\nWreck can be reported to the Receiver by completing a Report of Wreck and Salvage Form.\n\nThere are several penalties associated with wreck and salvage outlined in the Merchant Shipping Act 1995 and the Receiver has a duty to investigate any report of possible offences regarding the treatment of wreck. If the investigation reveals sufficient evidence, the Receiver may prosecute those suspected of having committed an offence. To enable the Receiver of Wreck to enforce the law the Receiver is awarded several powers by the Secretary of State.\n\nThe Receiver of Wreck releases an Annual Report in which she outlines interesting finds and statistics for that year.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11437361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11437361", "title": "Sale of Goods Act 1979", "text": "Sale of Goods Act 1979\n\nThe Sale of Goods Act 1979 (c 54) is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom which regulated English contract law and UK commercial law in respect of goods that are sold and bought. The Act consolidated the original Sale of Goods Act 1893 and subsequent legislation, which in turn had codified and consolidated the law. Since 1979, there have been numerous minor statutory amendments and additions to the 1979 Act. It was replaced for consumer contracts from 1 October 2015 by the Consumer Rights Act 2015(c 15) but remains the primary legislation underpinning B2B transactions for selling / buying goods.\n\nThe Act implied to contracts where property in 'goods' were transferred or agreed to be transferred for a monetary consideration, in other words: where property (ownership) in personal chattels was sold.\n\nSections 2 to 15B concern how a contract is formed and, in particular, contains standardised implied terms in all contracts for sale.\n\nSection 3(2) provides that if goods are sold and delivered to minors or those mentally incapacitated the minor will be liable to pay a reasonable price if the goods are \"necessaries\". Necessaries are goods suitable to the persons' condition of life and actual requirements at the time of contracting. Under sections 6 and 7, concerning specific goods that perish, a contract is \"void\" where they perish before and avoided where they perish after contract formation. (See Mistake (contract law)). Under section 8(2) the \"price\" is a money consideration given in exchange for property in goods. If the price, or means to ascertain a price, is not agreed, the buyer will be required to pay a reasonable price.\n\nBreach of these terms by the seller may give rise to an action for damages, and in the case of those terms which are also conditions, termination of the contract. Where the slightness of the breach renders it unreasonable for a non-consumer buyer to reject the goods, for breach of the implied terms as to \"description\", \"quality or fitness\" or \"sample\", then the buyer can only claim damages for a breach of warranty. This amendment moderates the traditionally strict approach of English Law to contractual breach in a commercial context.\n\nSection 12 incorporates into the contract a term that the seller either has legal title to the property to be sold or that he will have title at the time when property is to pass. Section 13(1) provides that where the buyer is sold goods by description, the goods must correspond with this description. \"Harlingdon v Christopher Hull\" held that this implied term may only be breached if the buyer relied upon the description. Therefore, if the buyer is an expert, reliance may not be established.\n\nSection 14 states that terms are implicitly about quality and title and are only relevant where the seller is acting \"in the course of a business\". There is no requirement as to the status of the buyer. The phrase \"in the course of a business\" has received much judicial consideration. Some judges have applied definitions found in other acts, but the recent case of \"Stevenson v Rogers\" gives a wide definition to this requirement. It will encompass activity which is ancillary or loosely related to the business of a company. To use Richards' example, a bank that sells a company car will be acting \"in the course of a business\".\n\n\n\nUnder section 15, when goods are bought by bulk and the buyer has tested or examined a small number of those goods, the seller is obliged to make sure that every item in the bulk corresponds with the quality of the sample tested or examined.\n\nSections 16 to 26 concern a contract's effects, and in particular the transfer of property and title. Under section 16, property (ownership) cannot pass unless the goods are ascertained (the actual goods to be sold are identified). Section 18 provides presumptions to determine when property will pass, both for specific goods (ascertained at the time of the contract) and goods unascertained at the time of contracting. These 'rules' can be excluded by contrary implication or express agreement.\n\n\n\nSections 27 to 39 concern performance of the contract. Under section 29, concerning the place of transfer, where location is not stipulated, the buyer must collect the goods at the sellers' place of business. The seller must be prepared to deliver them to the entrance of his place of business. If the contract was concluded by a means of communication at a distance and the buyer is a \"consumer\", this provision is disapplied and the Consumer Protection (Distance Selling) Regulations 2000 apply instead. However, it is changed today and what applies is The Consumer Contracts (Information, Cancellation and Additional Charges) Regulations 2013.\n\n\nWithin six months, beginning at the time at which the goods were delivered, the buyer can require the seller to repair the goods, reduce the price, or rescind (revesting property and requiring the return of any payment) the contract where the buyer successfully claims that the goods were not in accordance with the contract at the time of delivery. The seller can defeat this claim if (a) \"it is established that the goods did so conform\" at the time of delivery, or (b) the measure is \"incompatible with the nature of the goods or the nature of the lack of conformity.\n\n\n\nSections 49 to 54 concern actions for breach of contract.\n\nTerms from the Sale of Goods Act will not be incorporated into the contract where they have been expressly excluded, or express terms conflict with them. These exclusions may be invalid under common law, the Unfair Contract Terms Act 1977, or in \"consumer\" cases the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999. If the term excluding these implied terms is struck out, the implied term will be effective.\n\nUnder the Unfair Contract Terms Act 1977, section 12 may never be excluded, and sections 13 to 15 may never be excluded where the buyer is a \"consumer\".\n\nThe 1979 Act was preceded by the original Sale of Goods Act 1893, a statute drafted by Sir Mackenzie Chalmers, (who also wrote the Marine Insurance Act 1906). The success of both the 1893 and 1979 statutes was largely down to their conciseness and to Sir Mackenzie's clarity of expression. In the 1990s, a number of short statutes were passed to amend the 1979 Act, and a new updated and consolidated Act is considered to be overdue.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17423393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17423393", "title": "Solar 1", "text": "Solar 1\n\nSolar 1 is New York City's only self-sustaining solar powered building. It houses educational facilities for Solar One, a non-profit organisation concerned with green energy, arts, and education. The Solar 1 building is located at the north end of Stuyvesant Cove Park, the city’s only all-native plant park, which Solar 1 actively maintains. Situated on a brownfield site, Stuyvesant Cove Park offers opportunities for the local community to become involved in the park and learn about its special features. The Park has been designated a Wildlife Habitat by the National Wildlife Federation for providing a quality habitat by virtue of its standards of conscientious planning, landscaping and sustainable gardening. More than 250 volunteers and 80 student interns have spent more than 5,000 hours working in the park, planting, watering and weeding the thousands of new plants that have been added over the years.\n\nSolar 1 is a prototype for Solar 2, planned as the first building in NYC to generate power in excess of what it uses, thereby putting more power into the grid than it takes out. It will be a landmark and a model for future NYC buildings.\n\nIn 2001, the Community Environmental Center (CEC), a non-profit organisation, was designated by the New York City Economic Development Corporation (EDC) to develop and manage an environmental learning center in the recently constructed Stuyvesant Cove Park. Located along the East River between 18th and 23rd Streets in Manhattan on a brownfield site, the park opened to the public in January 2002. Under a 40-year lease with the EDC, CEC gained responsibility for the design and construction of Solar 2, educational programming, and park maintenance.\n\nIn May 2003, CEC opened Solar 1, a solar-powered building, where students and residents from the City and the greater Metro area learn first hand the principles about energy conservation in their urban neighborhood. The Solar 2 Green Energy Arts and Education Center will be a new Platinum LEED certified “net-zero” building that will replace Solar 1 and will be the only one of its kind in New York City.\n\nSolar One provides education initiatives to children in the five boroughs of New York through after-school and summer camp programs. The education initiatives focus on energy and design, educating future environmental city dwellers. The K-12 education programs are located at the Solar One education center. Program topics for the 1.5 hour classes include Renewable Energy, Sustainable Design and Estuary and Park Ecology. In addition to this, Solar One offers a longer-term education initiative called Green Design Lab. The Green Design Lab is a year-long curriculum guide for how to green a school. It provides hands-on learning opportunities that bring sustainability to life by using the school building as a teaching tool. It includes 5 units: Energy, Water, Air Quality, Materials and Food.\n\nSolar One Energy Connections (S1EC) connects New York City residents, businesses, and community-based organizations to energy efficiency and renewable energy resources through education, outreach, and project partnerships. Their mission is to make all New Yorkers part of our New York City's ambitious efforts to combat climate change and develop a clean, green economy.\n\nFor several years, Solar One built programs with job training components. Beginning in 2009, they began to focus on developing a program focused solely on training people for jobs in the emerging green economy. Today, S1 runs a robust program with over a dozen workforce agency partners that covers many topics: Solar (PV) installation, energy efficiency and Weatherizaton, carpentry, plumbing and more. Workforce organizations that offer Green Training Programs includes: Strive, Vocational Foundation, Non-Traditional Employment for Women, Green City Force and Covenant House New York,\n\nSolar One’s Green Arts programming creates a new approach to learning about green energy and conservation. The Green Energy Arts Festival is an annual series of events that attract diverse audience members who might not otherwise attend a “green” event. Each year during the spring, summer and fall, S1 offers a variety of free, public programs and events, like the Solar-Powered Dance and Film Series, the Sun To Stars festival, Family Days, musical performances and more.\n\nIn 2012, S1 hopes to break ground on SOLAR 2, an 8,000 square foot 100% green-powered education and arts center that is slated to be New York’s first Platinum LEED educational facility. SOLAR 2 was designed by the renowned green architecture firm Kiss & Cathcart, and engineered by the firm of Arup.\n\nCarbon Emission Reductions Achieved by Solar One for the Solar 1 Building:\n"}
{"id": "200424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200424", "title": "Solonian Constitution", "text": "Solonian Constitution\n\nThe Solonian Constitution was created by Solon in the early 6th century BC. At the time of Solon the Athenian State was almost falling to pieces in consequence of dissensions between the parties into which the population was divided. Solon wanted to revise or abolish the older laws of Draco. Solon promulgated a code of laws embracing the whole of public and private life, the salutary effects of which lasted long after the end of his constitution.\n\nUnder Solon's reforms, all debts were abolished and all debt-slaves were freed. The status of the \"hectemoroi\" (the \"one-sixth workers\"), who farmed in an early form of serfdom, was also abolished. These reforms were known as the \"Seisachtheia\". Solon's constitution reduced the power of the old aristocracy by making wealth rather than birth a criterion for holding political positions, a system called \"timokratia\" (timocracy). Citizens were also divided based on their land production: Pentacosiomedimnoi, Hippeis, Zeugitae, and Thetes. The lower assembly was given the right to hear appeals, and Solon also created the higher assembly. Both of these were meant to decrease the power of the Areopagus, the aristocratic council. The only parts of Draco's code that Solon kept were the laws regarding homicide. The constitution was written as poetry, and as soon as it was introduced, Solon went into self-imposed exile for 10 years so he would not be tempted to take power as a tyrant.\n\nThe pentacosiomedimni or pentakosiomedimnoi () were the top class of citizens: those whose property or estate could produce 500 medimnoi of wet or dry goods (or their equivalent), per year. They were eligible for all top positions of government in Athens. These were:\n\nThe \"pentacosiomedimni\" could also serve as generals (\"strategoi\") in the Athenian army.\n\nThe \"hippeus\" was the second highest of the four social classes. It was composed of men who had at least 300 medimnoi or their equivalent as yearly income.\n\nThe zeugitae () or zeugitai were those whose property or estate could produce 200 medimnoi of wet or dry goods (or their equivalent), per year. The term appears to have come from the Greek word for \"yoke\", which has led modern scholars to conclude that zeugitae were either men who could afford a yoke of oxen or men who were \"yoked together\" in the phalanx—that is, men who could afford their own hoplite armor.\n\nThe zeugitae could serve as hoplites in the Athenian army. The idea was that one could serve as a hoplite if he had enough money to equip himself in that manner, i.e. he could produce 200 medimnoi or more per year.\n\nAt the time of Solon's reforms, zeugitae were granted the right to hold certain minor political offices. Their status rose through the years; in 457/6 BC they were granted the right to hold the archonship, and in the late 5th century moderate oligarchs advocated for the creation of an oligarchy in which all men of hoplite status or higher would be enfranchised, and such a regime was indeed established for a time during the Athenian coup of 411 BC.\n\nThey were eligible for a few positions of government in Athens such as:\n\nThe thetes (, \"thêtes\", sing. θής, \"thēs\", \"serf\") were the lowest social class of citizens. The \"thetes\" were those who were workers for wages, or had less than 200 medimnoi (or their equivalent) as yearly income. This distinction spanned from some time earlier than 594/593 BC until 322 BC. The thetes were defined as citizens who did not qualify as \"zeugitae\", although the thetes may have predated the Solonian reforms. They could participate in the Ecclesia (the Athenian assembly), and could be jurors serving in the law court of the Heliaia, but were not allowed to serve in the Boule or serve as magistrates.\n\nIn the reforms of Ephialtes and Pericles around 460450 BC, the thetes were empowered to hold public office.\n\n12,000 thetes were disenfranchised and expelled from the city after the Athenian defeat in the Lamian War. There is debate among scholars whether this represented the entire number of thetes, or simply those who left Athens, the remainder staying behind.\n\nUnlike the popular concept of galley slaves, ancient navies generally preferred to rely on free men to row their galleys. In the 4th and 5th century Athens generally followed a naval policy of enrolling citizens from the lower classes (the thetes), metics and hired foreigners. However, under some conditions, for example during the Mytilenean revolt, higher classes were enrolled as rowers also. This made them crucial in the Athenian Navy and therefore gave them a role in Athens' affairs (see Constitution of the Athenians).\n\nOf the population dissatisfied, the Diacrii, the poorest and most oppressed section of the population, demanded that the privileges of the nobility, which had till then been obtained, should be utterly set aside. Another party, prepared to be contented by moderate concessions, was composed of the Parali. The third was formed by the nobles because their property lay for the most part in the pedion, the level and most fruitful part of the country. Solon, who enjoyed the confidence of all parties on account of his tried insight and sound judgment, was chosen archon by a compromise, with full power to put an end to the difficulties, and to restore peace by means of legislation. One of the primary measures of Solon was the Seisachtheia (\"dis-burdening ordinance\"). This gave an immediate relief by cancelling all debts, public and private. At the same time he made it illegal for the future to secure debts upon the person of the debtor.\n\nSolon also altered the standard of coinage [and of weights and measures], by introducing the Euboic standard in place of the Pheidonian or Aeginetan standard. 100 new drachmae were thus made to contain the same amount of silver as 73 old drachmae.\n\nSolon further instituted a timocracy, and those who did not belong to the nobility received a share in the rights of citizens, according to a scale determined by their property and their corresponding services to the Athenian State. For this purpose he divided the population into four classes, founded on the possession of land.\n\nSolon's legislation only granted to the first three of these four classes a vote in the election of responsible officers, and only to the first class the power of election to the highest offices; as, for instance, that of archon. The first three classes were bound to serve as hoplites; the cavalry was raised out of the first two, while the fourth class was only employed as light-armed troops or on the fleet, and apparently for pay. The others served without pay. The holders of office in the State were also unpaid.\n\nEach division had different rights; for example, the \"pentacosiomedimnoi\" could be archons, while \"thetes\" could only attend the Athenian assembly. The fourth class was excluded from all official positions, but possessed the right of voting in the general public assemblies (the Heliaia) which chose officials and passed laws. They had also the right of taking part in the trials by jury which Solon had instituted.\n\nSolon established as the chief consultative body the Council of the Four Hundred, in which only the first three classes took part, and as chief administrative body the Areopagus which was to be filled up by those who had been archons.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27649164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27649164", "title": "Special 301 Report", "text": "Special 301 Report\n\nThe Special 301 Report is prepared annually by the Office of the United States Trade Representative (USTR) that identifies trade barriers to United States companies and products due to the intellectual property laws, such as copyright, patents and trademarks, in other countries. By April 30 of each year, the USTR must identify countries which do not provide \"adequate and effective\" protection of intellectual property rights or \"fair and equitable market access to United States persons that rely upon intellectual property rights\".\n\nThe Special 301 Report is published pursuant to Section 301 of the Trade Act of 1974 (, ) as amended by Section 1303 of the Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness Act of 1988. The Special 301 Report was first published in 1989. \n\nBy statute, the annual Special 301 Report includes a list of \"Priority Foreign Countries\", that are judged to have inadequate intellectual property laws; these countries may be subject to sanctions. In addition, the report contains a \"Priority Watch List\" and a \"Watch List\", containing countries whose intellectual property regimes are deemed of concern.\n\nThe Special 301 Sub-Committee of the Trade Policy Staff Committee (TPSC) advises the United States Trade Representative on which countries to designate as \"priority foreign countries\" or to include in the watchlists. The Special 301 Sub-Committee is chaired by the Office of the United States Trade Representative (USTR) and its members include the Department of Commerce, the Patent and Trademark Office, the Department of State, the Department of Health and Human Services, the Department of Agriculture, the Copyright Office, the Council of Economic Advisers, and other agencies. U.S. companies provide extensive comments in the annual National Trade Estimate Report. The Special 301 Sub-Committee also takes the views of foreign governments and the views of U.S. embassies on intellectual property rights.\n\nU.S. companies and intellectual property owners, including copyrights, patents and trademarks, can submit complaints (ie., a petition alleging that a country has violated an international agreement with the United States that adversely affects the company or industry) to the Trade Compliance Centre, which provides a template for such complaints, or the country or industry desk at the International Trade Administration (ITA) of the U.S. Department of Commerce. The ITA then reviews trade-related complaints with co-operation from the Office of General Counsel and the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. The complaint cannot be in relation to disputes between companies on intellectual property rights, but must be about instances where a country has violated an international agreement with the United States. Complaints can be made in relation to the intellectual property law of the country, judicial or administrative procedures that discriminate against the US company, and failure to enforce intellectual property laws, particularly in relation to trade in counterfeit goods, and lately online copyright infringement. Complaints do not need to reference specific international agreements or provisions that are being breached. Complaints will focus on a country's failure to protect the intellectual property rights of a US company or lack of intellectual property rights relates market access. Complaints are expected to include a description of the efforts the company has made to enforce its intellectual property rights in that country and provide estimates of economic losses resulting from the infringement of intellectual property rights in that country.\n\nMost countries included in the \"Priority Watch List\" and \"Watch List\" between 1996 and 2000 were requested by Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA) or the International Intellectual Property Alliance (IIPA). According to Andres Guadamuz of the University of Edinburgh, the IIPA, which represents the U.S. media industry, urged the U.S. government to consider countries like Indonesia, Brazil, and India for inclusion in the Special 301 Watchlist in early 2010 because they either mandated or suggested the use of open-source software.\n\nIn 2010, NGOs such as PhRMA, Oxfam, and MSF made submissions to the USTR.\n\nA \"Priority Foreign Country\" is the worst classification given to \"\"foreign countries that deny \"adequate and effective\" protection of intellectual property rights (IPR) or \"fair and equitable market access\" to U.S. persons relying upon IPR protection\"\" under the Trade Act. \n\nOn 13 March 2001, the United States Trade Representative designated Ukraine as a Priority Foreign Country citing the massive amounts of unlicensed CDs sold in Europe that originate in the Ukraine. In 2011 and 2012, no countries were classified as a Priority Foreign Country; however, Paraguay was made subject to Section 306 Monitoring. In 2013, Ukraine was redesignated as a Priority Foreign Country. In 2014, the US was in talks with the WTO to designate India as a \"Priority Foreign Country\" especially for the pharmaceutical sector.\n\nUnder the amended Section 301 of the Trade Act of 1974 the USTR must by April 30 of each year:\n\n\"identify (1) those foreign countries that (A) deny adequate and effective protection of intellectual property rights, or (B) deny fair and equitable markets access to United States persons that rely upon intellectual property protection, and (2) those foreign countries identified under paragraph (1) that are determined by the Trade Representative to be priority foreign countries\".\n\nThe Act defines \"priority foreign countries\" as: \n\n\"those foreign countries - (A) that have the most onerous or egregious acts, policies, or practices that (i) deny adequate and effective intellectual property rights, or (ii) deny fair and equitable market access to United States persons that rely upon intellectual property protection, (B) whose acts, policies, or practices described in subparagraph (A) have the greatest adverse impact (actual or potential) on the relevant United States products, and (C) that are not (i) entering into good faith negotiations, or (ii) making significant progress in bilateral or multilateral negotiations to provide adequate and effective protection of intellectual property rights\".\nThe Uruguay Round Agreement Act furthermore states that countries may be identified under Special 301 \"taking into account the history of intellectual property laws and practices of the foreign country, including any previous identifications\" and \"the history of efforts of the United States, and the response of the foreign country, to achieve adequate and effective protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights\". It also states that compliance with the World Trade Organization's Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) does not preclude a country from being identified as denying \"adequate and effective protection of intellectual property rights\".\n\nThe USTR acts on the information available at the time and can identify new \"priority foreign countries\" on an annual basis. The Special 301 Sub-Committee conducts additional reviews throughout the year for countries that \"merit additional monitoring\". The Trade Act of 1974 requires that the USTR to start investigations within 30 days of a country being identified as \"priority foreign country\", unless the USTR concludes that such an investigation \"would be detrimental to United States economic interests\". Unless the \"priority foreign country\" is regarded as being in breach of a trade agreement, including the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS), investigations must conclude within six months, with the possibility of a three-month extension. Reasons for extension include \"substantial progress in drafting or implementing legislative or administrative measures that will provide adequate and effective protection of intellectual property rights\" by the \"priority foreign country\". If the USTR believes that a trade agreement is being breached the USTR must conclude the investigation within 18 months, or within 30 days after the \"dispute settlement procedure\" has finished. If the USTR concludes that a trade agreement is being breached, \"retaliation actions\" may be taken under Section 301 of the Trade Act of 1974.\n\nTwo non-statutory categories have been created in addition to the statutory category of \"priority foreign country\", which once identified as such needs to be investigated and if found in breach with a trade agreement is subject to possible \"retaliation actions\" under Section 301 of the Trade Act of 1974. \"Priority Watch List\" and \"Watch List\" countries are identified by the annual Special 301 Report. \"Priority Watchlist countries\" are judged by the USTR as having \"serious intellectual property rights deficiencies\" that require increased USTR attention. \"Watch List\" countries have been identified by the USTR as having \"serious intellectual property rights deficiencies\" but are not yet placed on the \"Priority Watchlist\". The USTR can move countries from one list to the other, or remove them from the lists, throughout the year.\n\nThe International Intellectual Property Alliance keeps these statistics since 1989.\n\nIn response to countries being included on the Special 301 Report Watchlists the U.S. government may initiate dispute settlement proceedings at the World Trade Organization (WTO) or other relevant trade agreement, including the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). The U.S. government can also eliminate tariff preferences unilaterally granted, such as the Generalized System of Preferences (GSP).\n\nIf an USTR investigation concludes that a country has violated a trade agreement Section 301 allows the U.S. government to impose unilateral trade sanctions if the country is not a member of the World Trade Organization (WTO) or any other trade agreement establishing dispute settlement provisions, such as free trade agreements, which are relevant to the alleged violation. Unilateral trade sanctions under section 301 were imposed on December 20, 2001, on Ukraine, which was not yet a WTO member, by imposing a prohibitive tariff on metals, footwear, and other imports because the USTR concluded that the country had failed to enact legislation to enforce copyright in relation to music CDs and their export. Section 301 was also invoked by President Trump in March 2018, setting off the 2018 China–United States trade dispute.\n\nAccording to the International Intellectual Property Alliance (IIPA) the Special 301 Report and the Watchlists is used to pressure other nations to adopt stricter copyright laws and take a more active role in combating copyright infringement.\n\nThe USTR has used the Special 301 Reports to initiate formal dispute settlement proceedings at the World Trade Organization (WTO) if it believes a country does not comply with the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS). WTO dispute settlement proceedings are initiated when the country's noncompliance with TRIPS is judged to be too narrow to make the country a \"priority foreign country\". The countries against which the USTR intends to pursue dispute settlement proceedings are announced every April in the Special 301 Report.\n\nPeter Drahos, a law professor at the Centre for Commercial Law Studies at Queen Mary University of London's School of Law, has called the Special 301 Report \"a public law devoted to the service of private corporate interests\". It explicitly protects and acts in favor of U.S. intellectual property owners, most often large corporations, against any foreign national policy or unofficial action that does not conform, even in its domestic legislation, to the United States' position on international copyright and IP. Threat of action under Special 301 has been used to insert U.S. trade lobby backed advisers into states' domestic legislative process in order to ensure compliance with U.S. trade norms. One of the most direct examples comes from a former U.S. trade lobbyist, speaking in 1993:\n\n\"Jamaica had no intellectual property law, but they wrote one (with our help). Similarly the Dominican Republic. I sat down with their lawyer and together we wrote their copyright law.\" \n\nSuch methods of drafting national-level legislation inevitably raise questions about undue influence from the private sector. Lobbyists for the IP industry have been successful in their efforts to secure legal backing in foreign countries to already existing regimes such as TRIPS, and private corporations are now able to act as watchdogs to foreign national legislation on behalf of the U.S. government.\n\nMost countries included in the \"Priority Watch List\" and \"Watch List\" between 1996 and 2000 were requested by Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America or International Intellectual Property Alliance. For example, Finland was blacklisted in retaliation to unanimously adopted legislation requiring the tax-funded Social Insurance Institution to reimburse the cost of medications only up to the price of the cheapest generic. Intellectual property is not violated, as this affects all manufacturers equally; nevertheless, this retaliatory measure has had a negative impact on investment decisions unrelated to the pharmaceutical industry.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58389273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58389273", "title": "Tax resistance in the United States", "text": "Tax resistance in the United States\n\nTax resistance in the United States has been practiced at least since colonial times, and has played important parts in American history.\n\nTax resistance is the refusal to pay a tax, usually by means that bypass established legal norms, as a means of protest, nonviolent resistance, or conscientious objection. It was a core tactic of the American Revolution and has played a role in many struggles in America from colonial times to the present day.\n\nIn addition, the philosophy of tax resistance, from the \"no taxation without representation\" axiom that served as a foundation of the Revolution to the assertion of individual conscience in Henry David Thoreau's \"Civil Disobedience\", has been an important plank of American political philosophy.\n\nThe theory that there should be \"no taxation without representation,\" while it did not originate in America, is often associated with the American Revolution, in which that slogan did strong duty. It continues to be a rallying cry for tax rebellions today. American Henry David Thoreau's theory of civil disobedience has proven to be extremely influential, and its influence today is not limited to tax resistance stands and campaigns but to all manner of refusal to obey unjust laws. These are among the theories of tax resistance that have taken on a particularly American flavor and have animated and inspired American tax resisters and tax resistance campaigns.\n\nIn English political philosophy of the late 18th century, the theory was prominent that in order for the sovereign to exact a tax on a population, that population must be represented in a legislature that had the sole power to levy the tax. That theory was made axiomatic in the form of the slogan \"no taxation without representation\" (and similar expressions).\n\nThe American colonies did not have representatives in the British parliament, and so this axiom became a useful platform for colonial rebels to justify their rebellion against direct taxes imposed by the crown.\n\nThe \"no taxation without representation\" slogan was brought to bear in the arguments for tax resistance by African-Americans and by American women who did not have the right to vote or serve in the legislature. It is used today by the District of Columbia as part of a complaint that residents of the district have no (voting) Congressional representatives.\n\nThe phrase has such potent currency in American thought that it is frequently used today in the context of tax debates that have little to do with legislative representation, at least in the way that the original coiners of the phrase would have understood: For example, complaints that Congressional representatives only \"represent\" certain special interests, or that the complainer doesn't feel that his or her point of view is \"represented\" in legislative debates or actions.\n\nHenry David Thoreau's 1849 essay \"On Resistance to Civil Government\" — now usually referred to as \"Civil Disobedience\" — is part of the canon of American political philosophy. It was prompted by Thoreau's refusal to pay a poll tax because of unwillingness to support a government that was enforcing the slavery of Americans and what he felt was an unjust war against Mexico.\n\nThoreau argued that obedience to government is often misplaced, and that people should develop and trust their own consciences rather than use the law as a crutch.\n\nThoreau's philosophy has inspired many tax resisters since, especially those who have acted individually (not as part of a tax strike or other large-scale movement) and from motives of conscientious objection.\n\nThe theory that taxpayers become complicit in the actions of their government when they pay for the government's functioning and requisitions through their taxes, and that therefore one must scrutinize the actions of the government and refuse to pay for them if they become grossly immoral, is key to the war tax resistance practiced by American Quakers since colonial times. It also forms an important philosophical basis for other religious and secular American war tax resisters down to the present day.\n\nWar tax resisters in the United States pioneered the idea that conscientious objection to military taxation ought to be a legally protected right: that is, taxpayers who are morally opposed to taking part in war should not be forced to fund war, just as governments often permit such people to avoid military conscription.\n\nThis theory has been extended by people who oppose other aspects of government funding. A few have refused to pay taxes on the grounds that some government health spending goes to institutions that provide abortions. A number of Amish people refused to pay taxes for government social insurance programs on conscientious grounds.\n\nThe theory that taxation is ethically indistinguishable from robbery is a staple of American anarchist and (often) libertarian thought. American anarchist philosopher Lysander Spooner put it this way:\n\nThe original U.S. Libertarian Party platform (1972) agreed that taxation was always a violation of the rights of the individual:\n\nAn enduring mythology of tax protester arguments asserts that the tax system operating in the United States is unconstitutional, illegal, or doesn't actually apply to most of the people currently being subjected to it.\n\nThese arguments, though they often take the form of \"totally discredited legal positions and/or meritless factual positions,\" are often persuasive to people who have an unsophisticated understanding of the legal system and who are susceptible to look uncritically on arguments that appeal to their financial self-interest. For example, in the early 1980s, an epidemic of tax protest swept General Motors plants in Flint, Michigan, as thousands of employees there told to stop withholding income tax from their salaries after they attended seminars or listened to lectures on tape from the tax protester group “We The People ACT.”\n\nThe following sections briefly describe some of the more prominent examples of tax resistance in colonial America and the United States:\n\nThe Society of Friends (Quakers) had a tradition of refusing to pay tithes to the establishment church, and of refusing to pay explicit war taxes, from the early years of the establishment of the sect.\n\nWhen Quakers were permitted to establish an American colony, Pennsylvania, that they could run to some extent on their religious principles, the Pennsylvania Assembly often offered some resistance to attempts by the crown to exact money from the colony for the purposes of military defense.\n\nDuring the French and Indian war, the Pennsylvania colonial assembly conceded, and began raising a tax from Pennsylvania residents for military fortifications. This led to some, including influential Quakers John Woolman and Anthony Benezet, refusing to pay such taxes for reasons of conscientious objection.\n\nThis stand, and the eloquence the resisters employed to explain it, proved influential, and a Quaker tradition of war tax resistance has waxed and waned through American history to the present day.\n\nA typical American colonial government was headed by a governor, who was appointed by the Crown and meant to represent the interests of the home country, and a colonial assembly, elected by the colonists themselves. The two not infrequently came into conflict over issues of taxation, and when the governor assumed the right to tax colonists without the consent of their legislature, this conflict might result in tax resistance. \n\nThis happened for example in 1687 when New England governor Edmund Andros attempted to assess a new tax. Colonists declared their unwillingness to pay such a tax, were imprisoned on orders of the governor, and this ultimately led to the 1689 Boston revolt in which Andros was overthrown. This muscle-flexing by American colonists was an important precursor of the American Revolution, such that Ipswich, where a declaration defying the tax was signed, bills itself as \"The Birthplace of American Independence 1687\".\n\nThe War of the Regulation in colonial North Carolina was another important precursor of the American Revolution. Colonists, fed up with what they viewed as a corrupt and unrepresentative colonial government, stopped paying taxes and ultimately rose in an armed revolt. In this case it was the entire government — the governor, the assembly, and the corrupt bureaucracy — that was the target of the rebellion.\n\nIndependence-minded colonials used a variety of tactics to increase the economic independence and self-reliance of the colonies while denying economic resources to the Crown. This included rampant smuggling and attacks on British customs ships (as in the Gaspee Affair), the refusal to allow British monopoly products to be brought to market (as in the Boston Tea Party and Philadelphia Tea Party), boycotts of British-manufactured goods and the encouragement of local production of replacement goods, and sanctions ranging from social boycott to violent attacks aimed at tax collectors and collaborators. The success of measures like these led John Adams to assert that the American Revolution had already been accomplished before the Revolutionary War began — that the war was less a revolution than a failed counterrevolution.\n\nAfter the success of the American Revolution, the independent United States government of the former colonies was confronted by its own tax resistance campaigns. Three were suppressed militarily by the fledgling United States government:\n\nMassachusetts farmers were motivated in part by increased taxes and heavy-handed tax enforcement when they rose up in Shays' Rebellion. They took action against government agencies that were enforcing tax seizures, preventing their operation, until the suppression of the rebellion.\n\nFarmers far from coastal ports and population centers would often ferment and distill their grain into whiskey locally because it was more economic to bring whiskey to market than grain, from the point of view of transportation costs. Thus, when United States government put an excise tax on whiskey, this was seen as an imposition by coastal elites at the expense of rural farmers and was widely resented and resisted.\n\nWhile resistance in the form of refusal to pay the excise tax or to cooperate in the enforcement of excise laws persisted and largely succeeded in some areas, in Western Pennsylvania this resistance erupted into attacks on tax collectors and eventual armed revolt — the Whiskey Rebellion — which was violently suppressed by federal government troops under the command of former revolutionary war commander in chief George Washington.\n\nFries's Rebellion began in opposition to a federal window-tax instituted by the Adams administration, with resisters impeding the tax assessors and refusing to pay the assessed taxes. This resistance movement, too, was successfully suppressed by the federal government when it rose to the level of armed rebellion.\n\nThe United States government is largely run by and on behalf of the European immigrant community, while United States territory also encompasses the land of native people, some of whom live in separate sovereign or semi-sovereign nations. Conflicts periodically erupt over who could tax whom.\n\nIn the late-19th century, such conflicts led to tax resistance, for example from thousands of people of part-native ancestry in Dakota territory who forced the tax collector to retreat without his prize, from Crow in Montana who refused to pay for several years until the government there confiscated their livestock, or from non-native residents of Oklahoma Territory who wanted to be free from Cherokee Nation taxes.\n\nSuch conflicts continued into the 20th century. For example Wallace \"Mad Bear\" Anderson led a tax resistance campaign of the Tuscarora Nation in 1959 in which they refused to pay state income tax, publicly destroyed tax summonses, and engaged in sit-ins and other such protests. Members of the Seneca Nation blocked the Southern Tier Expressway in New York to protest the state's attempt to extend a state sales tax to them in 1992. When members of the Iroquois Confederacy blocked roads in a similar conflict in 1997, law enforcement responded with brutal violence (the state would eventually pay out $2.7million to victims).\n\nTax resistance has occasionally been deployed in the battle for civil rights for black people in the United States. For example:\n\nThe \"no taxation without representation\" argument was evoked by African-American businessman Paul Cuffee, who refused to pay his state taxes and petitioned the legislature in 1780 and 1781 on behalf of himself and other African-Americans, saying \"we apprehend ourselves to be aggrieved, in that… we are not allowed the privilege of freemen of the State, having no vote or influence in the election of those that tax us.\"\n\nRobert Purvis refused to pay a school tax in Philadelphia in 1853, on the grounds that his children were not allowed to attend the whites-only schools the tax supported. \"I object\", he wrote, \"to the payment of this tax, on the ground that my rights as a citizen, and my feelings as a man and a parent have been grossly outraged in depriving me, in violation of law and justice, of the benefits of the school system which this tax was designed to sustain.\"\n\nAfter the American Civil War, the United States government established Reconstruction era governments in the states of the former Confederacy that included black and carpetbagger representatives. The loss of political power by the formerly dominant white supremacists led to resentment, protest, and the formation of paramilitaries and parallel governments. Occasionally, tax resistance was used as a tactic to withdraw financial support and political legitimacy from the reconstruction governments in favor of the white supremacist parallel governments.\n\nFor example, tax resistance was used as a tactic by South Carolina Democrats in the months leading up to the collapse of the carpetbagger administration of Republican Daniel Chamberlain and his replacement by former Confederate Army officer Wade Hampton III.\n\nWhite supremacist gubernatorial candidate John McEnery established a parallel government in Reconstruction Louisiana, in opposition to the carpetbagger government of governor William Pitt Kellogg, and urged sympathetic citizens to pay taxes to his government rather than the Kellogg \"usurpation.\"\n\nIn the 1870s a number of American localities were victims of railroad bond swindles. Promoters would ask the residents to vote to issue bonds to pay for the running of a railroad line to their area, these bonds being backed by the local tax base. In theory the economic growth that would come from the new rail line would more than pay for the bonds by the time they were mature and the bondholders needed to be paid off. In fact, the railroad never materialized and the bond promoters vanished with the money.\n\nSome of these localities organized and refused to honor the bonds they had issued. Because by the time the bonds had matured they had likely been sold to new owners who did not participate in the original fraud, the court system was not usually very sympathetic to the defrauded taxpayers.\n\nBut this led to some notable examples of organized tax resistance in the United States.\n\nFor instance, in Cass and Clair counties, Missouri, local judges were elected who refused to enforce higher court rulings in favor of the bondholders that would have forced the County to inflict a tax in order to pay off the bonds. For a time, the judges held court in a cave in order to evade their eventual jailings for contempt of court.\n\nIn Steuben County, New York, the bondholders succeeded in forcing the community to create a property tax to pay off the bonds, but property owners refused to pay the tax and rallied to the support of those whose property was seized for failure to pay, successfully disrupting tax auctions.\n\nIn Kentucky, refusal to assess or pay taxes to pay off the bond swindle persisted for decades. Some towns refused to elect sheriffs or public officials of any kind (or no candidates could be found for the positions) so that nobody was legally qualified to assess taxes or engage in property seizures for failure to pay taxes. Local judges went into hiding to evade the rulings of higher courts. Armed citizens intimidated outsiders who tried to come and collect taxes by force.\n\nTax resistance was a less important part of the women's suffrage struggle in the United States than it was in the United Kingdom, but it still played a role and had some notable practitioners.\n\nAt the 1852 National Women's Rights Convention, Susan B. Anthony brought forward a tax resistance resolution:\n\nLucy Stone refused to pay her tax in 1858, on the grounds \"that women suffer taxation, and yet have no representation, which is not only unjust to one-half the adult population, but is contrary to our theory of government.\"\n\nAbby and Julia Smith were landowners in Glastonbury, Connecticut, who found in the 1870s that their property tax assessments kept rising relative to those of the male property owners of the area who could vote in local elections. They responded by refusing to pay taxes on \"no taxation without representation\" grounds, and their battle soon became a among suffrage activists and sympathizers throughout the country (in part thanks to the sisters' knack for publicity).\n\nAnna Howard Shaw's automobile was sold at tax auction in 1915 in a celebrated tax resistance case. \"Dr. Shaw has always believed in the contention of the Colonies that 'taxation without representation is tyranny' and has consistently protested along this line when paying her taxes,\" she explained.\n\nAs women won the right to vote in the United States, they sometimes also became vulnerable to taxes that had previously only applied to men. When this happened in Pennsylvania, the shock was accompanied by resentment that the school tax in question applied mostly to women living in rural areas and not to those living in the largest Pennsylvania cities.\n\nThis example of American tax resistance is particularly interesting because although it involved thousands of women in many parts of the state and persisted for several years, there is little evidence that the resistance was formally organized, and it wasn't accompanied by much in the way of open protest — no rallies, picket marches, petitions, manifestos, named organizations, political coalitions, or things of that nature. It seems to have been a form of leaderless resistance.\n\nAt first the women were emboldened by a quirk in the law that forbade \"the arrest or imprisonment for non-payment of any tax of any female or infant or person found by inquisition to be of unsound mind.\" It took the state legislature a couple of years to update that law after the women's tax resistance began, and several women were eventually jailed, briefly, for their resistance.\n\nAlthough the government raised some of its war budget via taxes, the most visible public war funding measure during World WarⅠ was the Liberty Bond program. Citizens were encouraged to loan money to the government for its war effort through the purchase of bonds.\n\nAlthough the purchase of bonds was ostensibly voluntary, strong coercive pressure — up to and including mob violence — was directed at those who would not buy. \"Bond slackers\" (the popular term at the time for people who did not buy war bonds, or did not buy them in sufficient quantity) could be run out of town, might lose their jobs, have their property stolen or vandalized, might be tarred-and-feathered, otherwise tortured, coated in paint, threatened with murder, or subjected to hours of questioning by hooded interrogators in impromptu star chambers in the hopes of prompting them to say something that would incriminate them under the Espionage Act.\n\nThose who resisted such pressure and refused to buy war bonds included conscientious objectors to war such as Jehovah's Witnesses and members of traditional peace churches such as Mennonites, anti-capitalist radicals, and European immigrants from countries the and its allies were fighting.\n\nHerbert Lord, Director of Finance for the War Department, considered this \"an organized effort to discourage and defeat the loan,\" and it was attributed to a conspiracy of \"pro-German agents.\"\n\nThe Great Depression introduced unprecedented tax burdens to Americans. While real-estate values plummeted and unemployment skyrocketed, the cost of government remained high. As a result, taxes as a percentage of the national income nearly doubled from 11.6 percent in 1929 to 21.1 in 1932. Most of the increase took place at the local level and especially squeezed the resources of real estate taxpayers. Local tax delinquency rose steadily to a record of 26.3% in 1933.\n\nMany Americans reacted to these conditions by forming taxpayers' leagues to call for lower taxes and cuts in government spending. By some estimates, there were three thousand of these leagues by 1933. Taxpayers' leagues endorsed such measures as laws to limit and rollback taxes, lowered penalties on tax delinquents, and cuts in government spending. Partly as a result of their efforts, sixteen states and numerous localities adopted property tax limitations while three states instituted homestead exemptions.\n\nWhile taxpayers' leagues usually favored traditional legal and political strategies, a few promoted tax resistance. Probably the best known of these was the Association of Real Estate Taxpayers () in Chicago. From 1930 to 1933, it led one of the largest tax strikes in American history.\n\nThe radical side of the movement became apparent by early 1931 when called for taxpayers to withhold real-estate taxes (or \"strike\") pending a final ruling by the Illinois Supreme Court, and later the U.S. Supreme Court. Mayor Anton Cermak and other politicians desperately tried to break the strike by threatening criminal prosecution, revocation of city services, and the seizure of property.\n\nThe Association's influence peaked in late 1932, with a membership of near 30,000 people, a budget of over $600,000, and its own radio show. A failed legal suit, government counter-measures, and infighting took their toll and the movement, having in large part accomplished its goals, declined thereafter.\n\nTax resistance motivated by conscientious objection to war had traditionally been practiced in the United States under the Christian theory of nonresistance as extrapolated by the historic peace churches, and its development had largely taken place within the context of those churches. Rare exceptions included the brief flowering of tax resistance among the New England Transcendentalists like Henry David Thoreau, a small war tax resistance contingent in the late-19th Century pacifist movement, and a few war tax resisters in small sects like the International Bible Students and Rogerenes.\n\nAfter World WarⅡ, a non-sectarian war tax resistance movement began to come together, and would develop its own practices of war tax resistance under a more secular theory of pacifism.\n\nSome of the figures in this early movement were members of the historic peace churches, such as Mary Stone McDowell, a Quaker who had resisted the Liberty Bond drives during World WarⅠ, but many others were not. Dorothy Day and Ammon Hennacy were from the Catholic Worker movement, Ernest Bromley was a Methodist, Walter Gormly and Maurice McCrackin Presbyterians, Juanita and Wally Nelson non-religious, for example.\n\nIn 1948, the group Peacemakers formed to (loosely) organize this movement. This group would develop a pacifist theory of conscientious objection to military taxation that was not tied to a particular religious doctrine. They published a guide to war tax resistance in 1963 and developed tactics of resistance practice and of publicity that would lead to the growth of the movement, to a new resurgence of war tax resistance among the traditional peace churches, and to the establishment of nonsectarian war tax resistance as an ongoing part of the American scene.\n\nThe United States Social Security program had its share of critics and faced political opposition. It also evoked some tax resistance against the payroll and self-employment taxes that funded it. This came from two factions in particular: conservatives who opposed the government program for ideological reasons, and Amish who had religious prohibitions against participating in insurance programs in general.\n\nAmerican conservatives who refused to pay payroll or self-employment taxes for the social security program expressed their opposition in terms of opposing government overreach into private lives and contracts, and opposition to socialism. \"For those of us who still have confidence in our own ability,\" one wrote, \"such a socialistic thing should not be forced upon us.\"\n\nAbout a dozen women from around Marshall, Texas organized in 1951 to refuse to submit Social Security taxes on behalf of their domestic help. \"It's not the money, it's the principle,\" said spokesperson Carolyn M. Abney. \"That law is unconstitutional.\"\n\nThe \"Texas Housewives\" (as they were invariably called in the newspapers) lost a court case in 1952. They appealed on 13th Amendment grounds; that's the amendment that bans involuntary servitude — their attorney explained that the law \"forces these housewives to be unpaid tax collectors for the government.\" They lost this case as well, and in 1954 they failed in an attempted Supreme Court appeal. Meanwhile the government seized the resisted money from their bank accounts.\n\nThe women continued to defy the Internal Revenue Service () for some time after, claiming that the courts had not answered the Constitutional question but had only verified the tax statute. They eventually gave up the fight and began to pay the required quarterly taxes for their employees.\n\nMary Cain refused to pay $42.87 in self-employment tax in 1952 and hid her assets to make sure the government would have to make it a criminal matter (and thus a possible test case) rather than a simple civil asset seizure. In the case that eventually resulted, Cain's arguments were turned down by the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals and she had no luck with a Supreme Court appeal, but the government eventually dropped the case anyway. When the government padlocked the office of her newspaper as part of a seizure process, Cain sawed the lock off the door and mailed it to the defiantly. \"I’ve had enough of the New Deal. I’m sick of the whole Truman administration,\" she said.\n\nVivien Kellems, who had previously tangled with the government by refusing to withhold income taxes from her employees, refused to pay the self-employment tax on her income in 1952, and recruited a small group of other businesspersons (including Mary Cain) to join her protest. She wrote in a letter to Treasury Secretary John W. Snyder that she felt she already had \"adequate insurance\" and she urged the government to indict her so that she could be a test case to the Supreme Court.\n\nThe Amish have a strong tradition of mutual aid and believe that purchasing insurance betrays distrust in God's providence and in the community of believers. The original name of the Social Security system was \"Old Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance,\" and Amish people interpreted it as a forbidden form of insurance.\n\nBecause of this, when the U.S. government extended the Social Security system to cover farmers in 1955, many Amish refused to participate, and the government responded by seizing their property. After some farmers had bank accounts seized, others closed their accounts. When the government tried to levy checks due to the resisters from the milk processing cooperatives they sold their milk to, the cooperatives (also in Amish hands) refused to hand over the checks.\n\nThe government was then reduced to seizing livestock. In a celebrated case in 1961, the government seized Valentine Byler's horses during Spring plowing. Asked about this insensitivity to Byler's livelihood, the district Chief of Collections answered, \"Plowing never occurred to me. I live in an apartment.\" Byler received messages of support from around the country, and the press took up his cause.\n\nThe struggle would continue for a decade. Legislation that would exempt the Amish from the Social Security program was introduced in Congress at least as early as 1959, and some of the resisters took the unusual step (unusual for the Amish) of petitioning the government in 1961. In 1965, the United States changed the Social Security law in a way that exempted self-employed Amish people from having to pay into the Social Security program.\n\nThe American war against Vietnam led to strong opposition in the United States.\n\nInspired by the use of civil disobedience in the civil rights movement and by an earlier generation of conscientious objectors to war tax payment, a new generation of resisters created a version of war tax resistance that was more oriented toward protest than conscientious objection.\n\nIn 1966, A.J. Muste circulated a tax refusal pledge meant as an advertiement for the \"Washington Post\" that 370 people signed, including the singer Joan Baez, on the grounds \"that the ordinary channels of protest have been exhausted.\"\n\nIn 1967, President Lyndon Johnson proposed an income tax surtax explicitly to pay for war expenses. This was the first tax in the modern United States that was explicitly a \"war tax\" and helped to boost the prominence of war tax resistance as a protest tactic.\n\nIn early 1967, a \"No Tax for War Committee\" organized by Maurice McCrackin circulated a sign-on statement that eventually attracted more than 200 signatures, and that read:\n\nA \"Writers & Editors War Tax Protest\" the same year was somewhat less bold in its declaration (not all declaring total resistance, but some refusing to pay only the 10% surtax or only 23% of their total tax) but more impressive in its list of names. The protest, which appeared in \"New York Post\", \"New York Times Book Review\" and \"Ramparts\" was eventually signed by about 528 people including Nelson Algren, James Baldwin, Robert Bly, Noam Chomsky, Robert Creeley, David Dellinger, Philip K. Dick, Robert Duncan, Lawrence Ferlinghetti, Leslie Fiedler, Betty Friedan, Allen Ginsberg, Todd Gitlin, Paul Goodman, Edward S. Herman, Paul Krassner, Staughton Lynd, Dwight Macdonald, Jackson Mac Low, Norman Mailer, Peter Matthiessen, Milton Mayer, Ed McClanahan, Henry Miller, Carl Oglesby, Tillie Olsen, Grace Paley, Thomas Pynchon, Adrienne Rich, Kirkpatrick Sale, Ed Sanders, Robert Scheer, Peter Dale Scott, Susan Sontag, Terry Southern, Benjamin Spock, Gloria Steinem, William Styron, Norman Thomas, Hunter S. Thompson, Lew Welch, John Wieners, Kurt Vonnegut and Howard Zinn. The ad included a quotation from Thoreau's \"Civil Disobedience\" that ends:\n\nIn addition, by this time thousands of Americans were refusing to pay the federal telephone excise tax on their phone service.\n\nIn 1970, five Harvard and nine faculty members, including Nobel laureates Salvador E. Luria and George Wald, announced that they would be resisting taxes in protest of the war.\n\nIn 1972, Jane Hart, wife of Senator Philip Hart, said that she would be resisting the federal income tax. By this time, every major center had a staff member assigned to be the \"Viet Nam Protest Coordinator.\"\n\nTax resistance continues continues to be a background theme in American political discussion, and occasionally tax resistance campaigns break out in the United States.\n\nThe National War Tax Resistance Coordinating Committee, today's successor of organizations like Peacemakers and the Committee for Nonviolent Revolution, organizes conscientious objectors to military taxation and anti-war protesters who use tax resistance as a tactic.\n\nThe \"Don't Buy Bush's War\" campaign in 2007–08, organized by Code Pink to protest the War against Iraq, got 2,000 people to sign a tax resistance pledge.\n\nThe Tea Party protests of 2009 were in part a protest against high taxes (in addition to the allusion to the Boston Tea Party, the name was supposed to stand for \"Taxed Enough Already\"). Code Pink even reached out across the ideological aisle to try to find some common ground.\n\nTax resistance is used in smaller-scale struggles as well. When 23 county officials in Luzerne County, Pennsylvania were charged with corruption, and the county nonetheless decided to raise taxes by 10%, residents rebelled. One, Fred Heller, recorded a song in 2010 — \"Take This Tax and Shove It\" — to try to rally people to refuse to pay. When a smoking ban in Lansing, Michigan cut into their business, several taverns there launched a tax strike in 2011. When the Seattle, Washington, City Council introduced a city income tax in 2017, the state Republican Party did not wait for the tax to be ruled unconstitutional, but immediately called for \"nothing less than civil disobedience — that is, refusal to comply, file, or pay.\"\n"}
{"id": "28644094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28644094", "title": "United States–Korea Treaty of 1882", "text": "United States–Korea Treaty of 1882\n\nA Treaty of Peace, Amity, Commerce and Navigation (Korean: 조·미수호통상조약, Hanja: 朝美修好通商條約), also known as the Shufeldt Treaty, was negotiated between representatives of the United States and Joseon Korea in 1882.\n\nThe final draft was accepted at Chemulpo (present day Incheon) near the Korean capital of Hanseong (Seoul) in April and May 1884.\n\nIn 1876, Korea established a trade treaty with Japan after Japanese ships approached Ganghwado and threatened to fire on the Korean capital city. Treaty negotiations with the Americans and with several European countries were made possible by the completion of this initial Japanese overture.\n\nNegotiations with China were a significant feature of the process which resulted in this treaty.\n\nThe United States and Korea negotiated and approved a 14 article treaty. The treaty established mutual friendship and mutual assistance in case of attack; and the treaty also addressed such specific matters as extraterritorial rights for American citizens in Korea and most favored nation trade status.\n\nThe treaty encompasses a range of subjects.\n\n\nThe treaty remained in effect until the annexation of Korea in 1910.\n\nThe US treaty established a template which was explicitly modelled in treaties with other Western nations — Germany in 1883, Russia and Italy in 1884, France in 1886, and others as well.\n\nThe treaty remained in effect even after the Japanese protectorate was established in 1905,but ended with until the Japanese annexation of Korea in 1910.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1722531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1722531", "title": "Use (law)", "text": "Use (law)\n\nUse, as a term in real property of common law countries, amounts to a recognition of the duty of a person to whom property has been conveyed for certain purposes, to carry out those purposes.\n\nUses were equitable or beneficial interests in land. In early law a man could not dispose of his estate by will nor could religious houses acquire it. As a method of evading the common law, the practice arose of making feoffments to the use of, or upon trust for, persons other than those to whom the seisin or legal possession was delivered, to which the equitable jurisdiction of the chancellor gave effect. To remedy the abuses which it was said were occasioned by this evasion of the law the Statute of Uses of 1536 was passed. However it failed to accomplish its purpose. Out of this failure of the Statute of Uses arose the modern law of trusts (see that article for further details).\n\nOne reason for the creation of uses was a desire to avoid the strictness of the rules of the common law, which considered seisin to be all-important and therefore refused to allow a legal interest to be created to spring up in the future. Although the common law recognised a use in chattels from an early period, it was clear by the end of the fourteenth century that land law had no room for this notion. Uses, nonetheless, satisfied contemporary needs in fifteenth century England. Its first application in relation to land was to protect the ownership of the land by the Franciscan friars, who were pledged to vows of poverty and unable to own land. This enabled the feoffee to uses for the benefit of a cestui que use. The common law did not recognise the cestui que use but affirmed the right of ownership by feoffee to use.\nThe term \"use\" translates into \"Trust\" and this was the legal beginning of Trusts and the use of trusts to defeat feudal, death and tax dues.\n\nThey served the following purposes:\n\nThe rapid development of the use was probably one of the consequences of the Black Death, during which many landowning nobility died, leaving their realty to their widows and minor orphans.\n\nThe Court of Chancery eventually assumed the task of enforcing uses. Later, it decided that not only was the conscience of the feoffee to uses bound by the use, but also the conscience of his heir. Thus, on the death of the feoffee to uses the use could be enforced against the feoffee's heir to whom the legal fee simple estate had descended.\n\nThe idea of a tie in conscience was gradually extended, and with it the sphere of enforceability of the use. The modern position was reached by the beginning of the sixteenth century: The use could be enforced against anyone in the world acquiring an interest in the land other than a bona fide purchaser of the legal estate for value without notice of the use. In a conveyance \"to A and his heirs to the use of B and his heirs\", the common law took cognisance only of A and went no further. But if A attempted to act inconsistently with the dictates of his conscience, the Court of Chancery would enforce the use against him.\n\nFrom this time, two different kinds of interests in the land could exist side by side, a fragmentation between legal and beneficial.\n\nFrom early on, legislation interfered with uses where they were employed for purposes that were regarded as improper. During the 14th and 15th centuries, legislation was passed which was designed to prevent uses being created so as to defraud creditors.\n\nAs the lord at the top of the feudal pyramid, the King suffered most from the employment of uses and evasion of tenurial incidents. The Statute of Uses (1536) was the culmination of various attempts by Henry VIII to solve the problem. The statute operated to execute the use so that the interest of the \"cestui que use\", which was previously an equitable interest, was converted into a legal interest.\n\n"}
{"id": "34834810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34834810", "title": "Virginia Journal of Law and Technology", "text": "Virginia Journal of Law and Technology\n\nThe Virginia Journal of Law and Technology (\"VJOLT\") is a quarterly law review edited and published by students at the University of Virginia School of Law. It is indexed by Westlaw, LexisNexis and Bloomberg Law. The journal was ranked 18th among 59 Science, Technology, and Computing law journals in the Washington and Lee University School of Law's 2016 journal ranking list. VJOLT was established in 1996 and covers topics including online privacy and security, patent and copyright reform, media piracy, biotechnology, telecommunications, and other issues relating to legal aspects of technology and intellectual property.\n\nIn 2017, the Journal launched a new website and a Twitter account. Later that same year, the Journal published its first ever podcast, an interview with Basit Mustafa, CEO of Voltaire (a company which makes jury selection assistance software).\n"}
{"id": "4900144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4900144", "title": "Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr", "text": "Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr\n\nWilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP (known as WilmerHale) is an American \"BigLaw\" firm with offices across the United States, Europe and Asia. It was created in 2004, through the merger of the Boston-based firm, Hale and Dorr and the Washington-based firm Wilmer Cutler & Pickering; and employs more than 1,000 attorneys worldwide. WilmerHale ranked second in the nation in American Lawyer's A-List of top BigLaw firms, and the firm is one of the most selective law firms in the United States for incoming associates. WilmerHale is known for its connections to the federal government; many of the firm's attorneys have experience in the Department of Justice, the Department of Defense, the Executive Office of the President, the Securities and Exchange Commission, and other federal agencies. Robert Mueller was partner at WilmerHale's Washington office before being hired as Special Counsel to the investigation into Russian interference in the U.S. presidential election. Other attorneys at WilmerHale include Seth Waxman, former Solicitor General of the United States; Ken Salazar, former United States Senator from Colorado and United States Secretary of the Interior; and Jamie Gorelick, former United States Deputy Attorney General.\n\nHale and Dorr was founded in Boston in 1918 by Richard Hale, Dudley Huntington Dorr, Frank Grinnell, Roger Swaim and John Maguire. Reginald Heber Smith, author of the seminal work Justice and the Poor and a pioneer in the American legal aid movement, joined the firm in 1919 and served as managing partner for thirty years. Hale and Dorr gained national recognition in 1954 when partner Joseph Welch, assisted by associate James St. Clair and John Kimball, Jr., represented the U.S. Army on a pro bono basis during the historic Army-McCarthy hearings. In 1974, James D. St. Clair represented President Richard Nixon before the Supreme Court of the United States in \"United States v. Nixon\". In 1988, partner Paul Brountas chaired the presidential campaign of Massachusetts Governor Michael Dukakis, and in 1990, senior partner William Weld was elected governor. The firm has had a long and mutually very profitable relationship with nearby Harvard Law School, alma mater of more than a fifth of Wilmer Hale's current lawyers, and home of the Wilmer Hale Legal Services Center.\n\nIn 1988, the law firm established a subsidiary as a registered investment adviser. Initially known as \"Haldor Investment Advisors, L.P.\", and then \"Hale Dorr Wealth Advisers\". In 2008 \"Hale Dorr Wealth Advisors\" became \"Silver Bridge\".\n\nWilmer, Cutler & Pickering was founded in Washington in 1962 by former Cravath attorneys Lloyd Cutler and John Pickering, along with a senior lawyer, Richard H. Wilmer. Cutler, who later served as White House Counsel to Presidents Jimmy Carter and Bill Clinton, founded the Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights Under Law in 1962, and served on its executive committee until 1987.\n\nIn the 1980s, Cutler led the founding of the Southern Africa Legal Services and Legal Education Project, to aid South African lawyers who fought to implement the rule of law during apartheid. From 1981 to 1993, partner C. Boyden Gray left the firm to serve as White House Counsel to Vice President and President George H. W. Bush. In 2003, partner Jamie Gorelick began serving as a member of the 9/11 Commission.\n\nThe two firms merged to form Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr in 2004.\n\nIn 2010, the law firm relocated its administrative support base to a new campus in Dayton, Ohio as it sought to streamline internal business operations across its many offices. The office houses more than 200 employees from existing Wilmer Hale offices and new employees from the Dayton area. Individuals in the Business Services Center include administrative support staff, bringing together services such as finance, human resources, information technology services, operations, document review and management, and practice management, which will provide improved efficiencies for administrative teams and the firm, and reduce significant operational expenses.\n\nWilmerHale has been consistently ranked as one of the most prestigious law firms in America. As such, WilmerHale is one of the most competitive law firms for incoming associates, who typically come from top-ranked law schools, graduate at or near the top of their class, and serve on law review or other journals. Yale Law, Harvard Law, and Stanford Law supply the most associates of U.S. law schools across WilmerHale's offices. Many incoming associates at WilmerHale complete federal clerkships, either at U.S. District Courts or the U.S. Court of Appeals, and the firm provides a $50,000 to $75,000 bonus upon completing those clerkships.\n\nIn 2018 WilmerHale ranked 2nd in the popular \"American Lawyer\" \"A-List\" of the nation's twenty leading law firms based on revenue per lawyer, pro bono work, associate satisfaction, and diversity. It ranks as one of the \"Best Law Firms to Work For,\" one of the law firms with the \"Best Compensation Package,\" and one of the law firms with the \"Best Culture.\" According to one study examining political donations by large white shoe firms, WilmerHale was ranked as the most liberal out of the top twenty most prestigious law firms in the nation. The Washington Post ranked WilmerHale as the #4 top work place in DC and the #1 law firm based on associate satisfaction. The Washington Post noted that WilmerHale \"received especially strong marks from its employees on career development for young lawyers.\" \n\nIn the late 1980s, Hale and Dorr partner Jerome Facher represented Beatrice Foods in a suit by eight families from Woburn, Massachusetts who claimed that Beatrice, along with W.R. Grace, had polluted the town's water supply, resulting in an elevated number of leukemia cases and immune-system disorders. The case was memorialized in the book \"A Civil Action\", by Jonathan Harr, and in a movie of the same name starring Robert Duvall as Facher and John Travolta as plaintiffs' lawyer Jan Schlichtmann. Upon further discovery, the EPA took the case on and W.R. Grace was successfully indicted for making false statements. Both W. R. Grace and Beatrice Foods paid a total $64.9M to clean up the contaminated sites in Woburn, Massachusetts.\n\nIn the wake of news articles raising concerns about transactions between Enron and its CFO, Andy Fastow, lawyers from Wilmer Cutler & Pickering represented a special investigative committee of Enron's board of directors in an internal investigation into those transactions. The resulting report, known as the \"Powers Report,\" laid out the facts that have been the predicate for much of the public discussion of Enron since that time.\n\nSimilarly, after WorldCom's announcement that it would have to restate financial statements, the firm represented a special investigative committee of WorldCom's board of directors in performing an internal investigation into the accounting irregularities. The investigation resulted in a widely covered written report that detailed a variety of accounting issues as well as the role of management and the board of directors.\n\nIn 1986, Wilmer, Cutler & Pickering represented corporate raider Ivan Boesky in high-profile Department of Justice and SEC proceedings, as well as multiple class actions based on his participation in insider trading violations.\n\nWilmer, Cutler & Pickering represented Swiss banks accused of profiting from the Holocaust in their settlement negotiations with plaintiffs. The firm also represented Siemens AG, Krupp AG, and other German companies accused of exploiting forced laborers during the Nazi era.\n\nSince 2005, Wilmer Hale has represented Senator William Frist in regard to an SEC insider trading investigation.\n\nWilmer Hale was hired to represent PepsiCo in the SEC investigation related to the departure of PepsiCo general counsel Maura Smith. In the course of this representation, a Wilmer Hale attorney inadvertently e-mailed a confidential legal memorandum to a \"Wall Street Journal\" reporter as part of an internal communication to other attorneys working on the matter, which made several details of the investigation public.\n\nBoth Hale and Dorr and Wilmer, Cutler & Pickering have a long history of involvement in \"pro bono\" work. Wilmer Hale has ranked at or near the top of \"The American Lawyer\" \"pro bono\" ranking since the merger. In recent years, the firm has been involved in several high-profile cases.\n\nA team of Wilmer Hale attorneys represents the \"Algerian Six\", a group of men who fell under suspicion of planning to attack the US embassy in Bosnia and who are now held in the Guantanamo Bay detainment camp.\n\nIn 2006, attorney Melissa Hoffer, then part of the team with WilmerHale, delivered a speech in Caen, France, critical of U.S. detainee policy. Other Wilmer Hale lawyers participating in the case include Stephen Oleskey, and Rob Kirsch.\n\nIn January 2007, Cully Stimson, deputy assistant secretary of defense for detainee affairs, criticized WilmerHale and other major law firms for representing \"the very terrorists who hit their bottom line back in 2001,\" and questioned whether such work was really being done pro bono or might actually receive funding from shadowy sources. In a \"Wall Street Journal\" editorial criticizing Stimson, Harvard Law School professor (and former United States Solicitor General under President Reagan) Charles Fried wrote:\n\nIn December 2007, Seth Waxman made the oral argument to the Supreme Court in \"Boumediene v. Bush\" which upheld habeas corpus rights for detainees at Guantanamo Bay.\n\nNotable attorneys and lawyers, past and present:\n\nHale and Dorr\n\nWilmer Cutler & Pickering\n\nWilmerHale\n"}
{"id": "32021260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32021260", "title": "World Federation Against Drugs", "text": "World Federation Against Drugs\n\nWorld Federation Against Drugs (WFAD) is a group of individuals and non-governmental organizations from different parts of the world (139 organizations in 47 countries in July 2015). The 1st World Forum Against Drugs was hosted in Sweden in 2008 by a group of Swedish non-Government organizations. An outcome of the first forum was the founding of WFAD in 2009 and to organize the 2nd World Forum Against Drugs in 2010. The start of WFAD had, in 2009, moral support from the US President George W Bush \n\nThe aim of WFAD is to work toward a \"drug-free\" world. The members of WFAD believe that illicit drug use is threatening the existence of stable families, communities and government institutions throughout the world. WFAD has its head office in Stockholm. WFAD opposes legalization of cannabis and other recreational drugs, and opposes injection rooms for heroin addicts. WFAD advocates that nations adhere to the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs 1961.\n\nThe WFAD organized, in 2012, the 3rd World Forum Against Drugs \n\nOne of many key speakers at the World Forums Against Drugs was R. Gil Kerlikowske, U.S. President Barack Obama's \"drug czar\". At the 3rd World Forum Against Drugs in Stockholm May 2012 was a declaration \"for a humane and balanced drug policy\" signed by him as representative of the U.S. Government along with representatives of Italy, the Russian Federation, Sweden and the United Kingdom. \n"}
