{"id": "52896677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52896677", "title": "2016 Defence White Paper", "text": "2016 Defence White Paper\n\nThe 2016 Defence White Paper is a white paper published by the Australian Department of Defence outlining a strategic plan for the Australian Defence Force (ADF) over the following decade. The paper describes the need for improvement in the capabilities of the ADF, and includes a commitment to A$195 billion in spending on new equipment and resources, as well as plans for restructure and review of the Royal Australian Navy, the Royal Australian Air Force and the Australian Army.\n\nThe first Defence White Paper was published in 1976 under the Whitlam government, and new papers were published in 1987, 1994, 2000, 2003, 2009 and 2013. \n\nThe Department of Defence issued a press release on 4 April 2014 stating that it had been instructed to develop a new white paper.\n\nThe paper outlines three \"Strategic Defence Interests\" as fundamentals for further planning:\n\nThe paper sets out a number of specific intended purchases of materiel and weaponry over the following 20 years, though some had been announced prior to the release of the paper. These include:\n"}
{"id": "52550089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52550089", "title": "2016 Rohingya persecution in Myanmar", "text": "2016 Rohingya persecution in Myanmar\n\nThe 2016 Rohingya persecution in Myanmar occurred in late 2016 when Myanmar's armed forces and police started a major crackdown on Rohingya people in Rakhine State in the country's northwestern region. The Burmese military have been accused of ethnic cleansing and genocide by various United Nations agencies, International Criminal Court officials, human rights groups, journalists, and governments including the United States. The United Nations has found evidence of wide-scale human rights violations, including extrajudicial killings, gang rapes, arson and infanticides, which the Burmese government dismisses as \"exaggerations\".\n\nThe military crackdown on the Rohingya people has drawn criticism from the United Nations (which cited possible \"crimes against humanity\"), the human rights group Amnesty International, the U.S. Department of State, the government of neighboring Bangladesh, and the government of Malaysia (where many Rohingya refugees have fled). The Myanmar leader and State Counsellor Aung San Suu Kyi has particularly been criticized for her inaction and silence over the issue and for doing little to prevent military abuses. On 27 September 2018 members of the Canadian Parliament voted unanimously to dispossess Myanmar leader Aung San Suu Kyi of her honorary Canadian citizenship for the atrocities against Rohingya Muslims.\n\nThe Rohingya people have been described as \"amongst the world's least wanted\" and \"one of the world's most persecuted minorities\". The Rohingya are deprived of the right to free movement and of higher education. They have been denied Burmese citizenship since the Burmese nationality law was enacted. They are not allowed to travel without official permission and were previously required to sign a commitment not to have more than two children, though the law was not strictly enforced. They are subjected to routine forced labor where typically a Rohingya man will have to give up one day a week to work on military or government projects and one night for sentry duty. The Rohingya have also lost a lot of arable land, which has been confiscated by the military to give to Buddhist settlers from elsewhere in Myanmar.\n\nMyanmar, also known as \"Burma\", is a country in Southeast Asia, bounded by the Bay of Bengal, Bangladesh and India to the west, and China, Laos and Thailand to the east. Democracy only recently emerged in Myanmar by arrangement with the military, who permitted a free election on 8 November 2015, which elevated Nobel Peace Prize laureate Aung San Suu Kyi to power after years of house arrest.\n\nMyanmar is predominantly Buddhist (88–90% of the population), with small minorities of other faiths, including a small minority of Muslims (4%).\n\nThe western coastal province of Rakhine State, is made up of the predominantly Buddhist Rakhine (4%, about 2 million people) and the predominantly Muslim Rohingya (2%, about 1 million people). Tensions between Buddhist and Muslim communities have also led to violence in Rakhine State, with nationalist Buddhists often targeting Rohingyas. The Rohingya are a distinct ethnicity with their own language and culture, but claim a long historical connection to Rakhine State.\n\nThe Rohingya describe themselves as descendants of Arab traders who settled in the region many generations ago. Scholars have stated that they have been present in the region since the 15th century. However, they have been denied citizenship by the government of Myanmar, which describes them as illegal immigrants from Bangladesh.\n\nIn modern times, persecution of Rohingya Muslims in Myanmar dates back to the 1970s. Since then, Rohingya people have regularly been made the target of persecution by the government and nationalist Buddhists. The tension between the various religious groups in the country was often exploited by the past military rulers of Myanmar.\nAccording to Amnesty International, the Rohingya have suffered from human rights violations under past military dictatorships since 1978, and many have fled to neighboring Bangladesh as a result. In 2005, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees had assisted with the repatriation of Rohingyas from Bangladesh, but allegations of human rights abuses in the refugee camps threatened this effort. In 2015, 140,000 Rohingyas remain in IDP camps after communal riots in 2012.\n\nBefore the most recent violence, in its 17 March 2016 \"Atrocities Prevention Report\", the U.S. Department of State summarized:\n\nAccording to Myanmar state reports, on 9 October 2016, armed individuals attacked several border police posts in Rakhine State, leaving nine police personnel dead. Weapons and ammunitions were also looted. The attack took place mainly in Maungdaw Township. A newly formed insurgent group, Harakah al-Yaqin, claimed responsibility a week later.\n\nFollowing the police camp incidents, the Myanmar military began a major crackdown in the villages of northern Rakhine state. In the initial operation, dozens of people were killed and many were arrested. As the crackdown continued, the casualties increased. Arbitrary arrest, extrajudicial killings, gang rapes, brutalities against civilians, and looting were carried out. According to media reports, hundreds of Rohingya people had been killed by December 2016, and many had fled Myanmar as refugees to take shelter in the nearby areas of Bangladesh.\n\nIn late November, Human Rights Watch released satellite images which showed that about 1,250 Rohingya houses in five villages had been burned down by the security forces. The media and the human rights groups frequently reported intense human rights violations by the Myanmar military. During one incident in November, the Myanmar military used helicopter gunships to shoot and kill the villagers. As of November 2016, Myanmar had yet to allow the media and human rights groups to enter the persecuted areas. Consequently, the exact figures of civilian casualties remained unknown. The Rakhine State was termed an \"information black hole\".\n\nThose who fled Myanmar to escape persecution reported that women had been gang raped, men killed, houses torched, and young children thrown into burning houses. The boats carrying Rohingya refugees on Naf River were often gunned down by the Myanmar military.\n\nOn 3 February 2017, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR) released a report based on interviews with more than 200 Rohingya refugees, which said that the abuses included gang-rape, mass killing, and killing children. Nearly half of the interviewees stated that family members of theirs had been killed. Half of the women interviewed stated that they had been raped or sexually assaulted: the report described the sexual violence as \"massive and systematic\". The army and police were stated to have burned \"homes, schools, markets, shops, and mosques\" belonging to or used by the Rohingya people.\n\nIn March 2017, a police document obtained by Reuters listed 423 Rohingyas detained by the police since 9 October 2016, 13 of whom were children, the youngest being ten years old. Two police captains in Maungdaw verified the document and justified the arrests, with one of them saying, \"We the police have to arrest those who collaborated with the attackers, children or not, but the court will decide if they are guilty; we are not the ones who decide.\" Myanmar police also claimed that the children had confessed to their alleged crimes during interrogations, and that they were not beaten or pressured during questioning. The average age of those detained is 34, the youngest is 10, and the oldest is 75.\n\nOn 24 October 2018, Marzuki Darusman chairman of the Independent International Fact-Finding Mission on Myanmar reported some examples of atrocities committed by Myanmar Security forces against Rohingya Muslims. This Independent International Fact-Finding Mission was established in 2017, by the UN Human Rights Council in Geneva.\n\nAn estimated 92,000 Rohingya people had been displaced because of the violence by January 2017; around 65,000 had fled from Myanmar into neighboring Bangladesh between October 2016 and January 2017, while 23,000 others had been internally displaced.\n\nIn February 2017, the government of Bangladesh announced that it planned to relocate the new refugees and another 232,000 Rohingya refugees already in the country to Thengar Char, a sedimentary island in the Bay of Bengal. The island first appeared around 2007, formed from washed down silt from the Meghna River. The nearest inhabited land, Hatiya island is around 30 km away. News agencies quoted a regional official describing the plan as \"terrible\". The move has received substantial opposition from a number of quarters. Human rights groups have described the plan as a forced relocation. Additionally, concerns have been raised about the living conditions on the island, which is low-lying and prone to flooding. The island has been described as \"only accessible during winter and a haven for pirates\". It is nine hours away from the camps in which the Rohingya refugees currently live.\n\nOn 30 April 2017 Sri Lanka intercepted and detained an India-origin boat of 32 Rohingya refugees off its northern coast after it entered Sri Lankan waters.\n\nIn May 2017, Bangladesh detained 12 Rohingya people and 2 people smugglers who attempted to leave the country by boat for Malaysia.\n\nOn 14 August 2017 India announced that it was to deport an estimated 40,000 Rohingya refugees including 14,000 of those registered with the U.N. refugee agency as well. In the months leading up to the announcement, a string of anti-Rohingya protests had been held in the country.\n\nIn January 2017, at least four police officers were detained by government authorities after a video emerged online of security forces beating Rohingya Muslims in November 2016. In the video, Rohingya men and boys were forced to sit in rows with their hands behind their head, while they were beaten with batons and kicked. This was the first incident in which the government punished its own security forces in the region since the beginning of the crackdown.\n\nOn 21 January 2017, the bodies of three Rohingya men were found in shallow graves in Maungdaw. The men were locals who had worked closely with the local administration, and the government believes they were murdered by Rohingya insurgents in a reprisal attack.\n\nOn 4 July 2017, a mob of at least a hundred Rakhine Buddhists in Sittwe attacked seven Rohingya men from Dapaing camp for internally displaced persons with bricks, killing one and severely injuring another. The Rohingya men were being escorted by police to Sittwe's docks to purchase boats, but were attacked despite armed guards being present nearby. According to a spokesman for the Burmese Ministry of Home Affairs, an unarmed junior policeman was with the Rohingya men at the time of the attack, but was unable to stop the attackers. One man was arrested in relation to the attacks on 26 July 2017.\n\nOn 30 July 2017, packages of high energy biscuits aided from the United Nations World Food Program (WFP) were discovered in a terrorist hideout in the Mayu mountain range in Maungdaw Township. The Rakhine State Government and WFP investigated the discovery of the biscuits for whether it represented a misuse of food assistance. On 31 July 2017, three decapitated bodies were found in Rathedaung Township. According to a government official, they were murdered by Rohingya insurgents. On 3 August 2017, bodies of six ethnic Mro farmers, reportedly killed by Muslim militants were found in Maungdaw Township.\n\nThe military crackdown on Rohingya people drew criticism from various quarters. Human rights group Amnesty International and organizations such as the United Nations have labeled the military crackdown on the Rohingya minority as crimes against humanity and have said that the military had made the civilians a target of \"a systematic campaign of violence\".\n\nAung San Suu Kyi has been criticized in particular for her silence and lack of action over the issue, as well as for failing to prevent human rights abuses by the military. She stated in response: \"show me a country without human rights issues.\" The former head of the United Nations, Kofi Annan, after a week-long visit in the Rakhine state, expressed deep concern about reports of human rights violations in the area. He was leading a nine-member commission which was formed in August 2016 to look into and make recommendations on improving the situation in the state.\n\nThe U.S. Department of State has also expressed concern about the violence in Rakhine State and the displacement of Rohingyas. The government of Malaysia has condemned the crackdown in Rakhine State, with ongoing protests in the country. In a protest rally in early December, Malaysia's prime minister Najib Razak criticized the Myanmar authority for military crackdown on Rohingya Muslims, and described the ongoing persecution as \"genocide\". Earlier, terming the violence against Rohingya Muslim minority as \"ethnic cleansing\", Malaysia stated the situation was of international concern. Malaysia also cancelled two football matches with Myanmar in protest of the crackdown.\n\nIn November 2016, a senior United Nations official, John McKissick, accused Myanmar of conducting ethnic cleansing in the Rakhine state to free it from the Muslim minority. McKissick is the head of a UN refugee agency based in the Bangladeshi town Cox's Bazar. Later that month, Bangladesh summoned the Myanmar envoy in its country to express \"tremendous concern\" over the Rohingya persecution.\n\nIn December 2016, the United Nations strongly criticized the Myanmar government for its poor treatment of the Rohingya people, and called its approach \"callous\". The United Nations also called on Aung San Suu Kyi, the State Counsellor of Myanmar (\"de facto\" head of government) and a Nobel laureate, to take steps to stop violence against the Rohingyas. In its report released in February 2017, the UN stated that the persecution of the Rohingya had included serious human rights violations. The UN Human Rights Commissioner Zeid Raad Al Hussein stated \"The cruelty to which these Rohingya children have been subjected is unbearable – what kind of hatred could make a man stab a baby crying out for his mother's milk?\" A spokesperson of the government stated that the allegations were very serious, and would be investigated.\n\nOn 23 May 2017, a report released by the military rejected the allegations made by the OHCHR in February, stating that, \"Out of 18 accusations included in the OHCHR report, 12 were found to be incorrect, with the remaining six accusations found to be false and fabricated accusations based on lies and invented statements.\"\n"}
{"id": "42488259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42488259", "title": "Australian Cyclists Party", "text": "Australian Cyclists Party\n\nThe Australian Cyclists Party is a minor political party in Australia. It was registered with the New South Wales Electoral Commission in 2014, and unsuccessfully contested the 2015 New South Wales state election. It was also registered later with the Victorian Electoral Commission, and unsuccessfully contested the 2014 Victorian state election. It registered with the Australian Electoral Commission for federal elections on 20 August 2014 and voluntarily deregistered on 5 September 2017. It remained registered for New South Wales state elections, but not Victoria.\n\nThe party uses the slogan \"I Cycle, I Vote\", and aims to raise awareness of cycling-related issues.\n\nThe party's founder was Omar Khalifa, a former CEO of Bicycle New South Wales. Khalifa was the lead candidate in the group of 15 candidates (this many are required to get a box \"above the line\") at the 2015 New South Wales state election in the New South Wales Legislative Council, coming third-last of all parties with just 0.43 percent of the vote. The party also fielded candidates in six lower house electorates.\n\nThe Australian Cyclists Party fielded nine senate candidates and two candidates for seats in the House of Representatives in the 2016 federal election. The one Cyclists Party candidate in Victoria was second in Group E on the Senate ballot paper, sharing the group with the candidate for the Science Party. \n"}
{"id": "1270500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1270500", "title": "Band of the 10th of December", "text": "Band of the 10th of December\n\nThe Band of the 10th of December was a secret Bonapartist society organized mainly from among lumpen proletariat, opportunists, military leaders, etc. The society helped progress Napoleon III's election as president of the Republic of France on December 10, 1848.\n\nIt is also known as \"Society of December 10\" and it is analyzed in great detail by Karl Marx in his essay The Eighteenth Brumaire of Louis Napoleon.\n"}
{"id": "2342752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2342752", "title": "Border Guards Bangladesh", "text": "Border Guards Bangladesh\n\nThe Border Guards Bangladesh (Bengali transliteration: বর্ডার গার্ড বাংলাদেশ; translated from English: বাংলাদেশ সীমান্ত রক্ষক; \"BGB\"), formerly known as the Bangladesh Rifles, is the oldest uniformed force in Bangladesh. It is a paramilitary force under the Ministry of Home Affairs. BGB is primarily responsible for the border security of the country, in Bangladesh the force is known as \"The Vigilant Sentinels of the National Frontier\". The Present Director General is Maj. Gen. Shafeenul Islam.\n\nBorder Guards Bangladesh, as a paramilitary force, is entrusted with the responsibility to defend the border of Bangladesh. BGB boasts a military history spanning over two centuries. During peacetime this force is also responsible for anti-smuggling operations, investigating cross border crime and extending governmental authority to remote and isolated areas. From time to time BGB has also been called upon to assist the administration in the maintenance of internal law & order, relief and rehabilitation work after any kind of natural disaster. During wartime BGB comes under the control of the Ministry of Defence as an auxiliary force to the Bangladesh Army.\n\nThe Ramgarh Local Battalion was established on 29 June 1795 at the city of Ramgarh, consisting of 486 personnel, as the \"Frontier Protection Force\", under the command of the East India Company. Later the force was converted into a paramilitary unit with its own name (Ramgarh Local Battalion) and uniform. At that time its primary responsibility was to suppress insurgent activities around the Ramgarh area. \n\nDuring 1799, the force established its first camp at Pilkhana, where the headquarters remain to this day. The camp unit then was known as \"Special Reserve Company\".\n\nThe Ramgarh Local Battalion was renamed as the \"Frontier Guards\" and remained so for thirty years from 1861 to 1891. \n\nFrom 1891 till 1920, the Frontier Guards were re-organized and re-equipped with modern weapons and renamed once again as the \"Bengal Military Police\". Commanded by a Subedar (Senior Warrant Officer), the BMP had four companies located in Dhaka, Dhumka and Gangtok. This force also participated in the First World War. \n\nThe BMP was reorganised yet once again and renamed as the \"Eastern Frontier Rifles\" in 1920. Its primary task was to protect the borders. It also took part in numerous military operations during the Second World War.\n\nAfter the partition of India, \"Eastern Frontier Rifles\" was re-grouped and renamed as the \"East Pakistan Rifles\" in 1947. It was the primary border protection force of the then East Pakistan. A number of Metropolitan Armed Police of Calcutta and some 1,000 ex-soldiers of West Pakistan merged into this force. Officers from the army were transferred to command and reorganise EPR. In 1958, it was also assigned the anti-smuggling duties on top of its primary role as the border guards. Major Tufail Mohammad was awarded the highest military award of Pakistan, 'Nishan-e-Haider', for his action in the Laksmipur Operation.. In 1965 India Pakistan war this force fought valiantly and successfully in a number of skirmishes in Lathitila, Dohogram, Laksmipur, Assalong and Boroibari. \n\nDuring the Bangladesh Liberation War of 1971 nearly nine thousand of the members of the East Pakistan Rifles (EPR) turned against the Pakistan Army, following the Declaration of Independence of Bangladesh on 26 March 1971 at Kalurghat Radio Station, Chittagong. Eight hundred and seventeen EPR personnel were subsequently reported as being killed in action. East Pakistan Rifles was the border security and anti-smuggling force stationed in what was to become independent Bangladesh. It was commanded by Junior Commissioned Officers (JCO) at the company level. All EPR companies were based within 5 miles of the international boundary. There were two senior commissioned officers, seconded from the Pakistan Army in command of each Wing (battalion) of the EPR. In March 1971, there were 12 EPR Wings. The entire force according to CIA estimates had 10 thousand enlisted personal.\n\nAt the outbreak of Bangladesh Liberation war the EPR were the first Bengali military unit to defect from the Pakistan forces; moving to Sholashahar and the main military cantonment, while calling on all Bengali soldiers to join them. Reportedly West Pakistani officers serving with the EPR were executed by their Bengali colleagues. On 26 March, the Pakistan Army sent troops to suppress the EPR. The EPR ambushed them but the Pakistanis managed to encircle them. As a result, the EPR took heavy losses at Kumira. According to Captain Rafiq, \"This ambush by the E.P.R. troops at Kumira was the first direct action against the enemy in the history of our liberation war.\"\n\nOn 29 January 1972, the East Pakistan Rifles was renamed the Bangladesh Rifles with the officers seconded from Bangladesh Army. Bangladesh Rifles initially had 9 thousand personal in 1971 which by 1973 had increased to 20 thousand. Bangladesh Rifles and Indian Border Security Forces exchanged fired near the Comilla-Tripura border throughout the entire month of December 1979. In 1996 Bangladesh Rifles personal had grown to 69 thousand.\n\nThe 2001 Indian–Bangladeshi border conflict took place in the third week of April 2001 between companies of the Bangladesh Rifles and the Indian Border Security Force on the poorly marked international border between the two countries. This was the worst border conflict Bangladesh was involved in since Independence. The 16–19 April fighting took place around the village of Padua (known as Pyrdiwah in India), which adjoins the Indian state of Meghalaya and the Timbil area of the Bangladesh border in the Sylhet district. In that area, 6.5 kilometres of the border have remained in dispute for the past 30 years. The trigger for the clash appears to have been an attempt by Indian forces to construct a footpath from an army outpost in Padua across a disputed territory some 300 metres wide to Indian Meghalaya.\nOn 15 April 2001, the BDR attacked and captured Pyrdiwah village.\nBoth sides later deescalated and returned to the original positions on the border. This incident left 16 Indian Border Security Force paramilitary men dead and 3 Border Guards Bangladesh men dead with 5 other BGB troops injured.\n\nOn 25 February 2009, regular BDR soldiers mutinied against their officers who were seconded from the Bangladesh Army. The mutiny took when senior commanders were in Dhaka for convocation or durbar. A total of 74 people were killed in the Mutiny. Many senior officers were killed, including almost the entire higher echelon of the command structure – about 57 army officers who were present in the Bangladesh Rifles' headquarters in the capital Dhaka. These included the Director General of the BDR. The soldiers mutinied due to reasons which largely remain unknown, though resentment at officers being seconded from Bangladesh army and allegations of corruption are believed to have been among the causes.\nAfter 30 hours, being surrounded by Bangladesh Army tanks, the mutineers surrendered with about 6,000 of them taken under arrest, ending the mutiny. On November 2013, Bangladesh sentenced 152 mutineers from Bangladesh Rifles to death.\n\nIn the aftermath of the mutiny, the Bangladesh Rifles was reorganised with new recruits. The force is still commanded by senior officers seconded from the Bangladesh Army. The Bangladesh Rifles have gone through some fundamental changes since 2010. It was officially renamed as the Border Guard Bangladesh (BGB) on 23 January 2011 and reorganised with fresh recruits. The BGB has a current strength of 50,000 organised into 61 battalions and largely located in numerous border outposts (B.O.P.). Administration staff and most of the officer corps are trained by and seconded from the Bangladesh Army. However, there are around 100 officers promoted from within the force itself. The border guards also formed their own intelligence unit. The Border Guard Bangladesh Act, 2010 increased the maximum punishment for mutiny from 7 years in jail to the death penalty.\n\nOn 28 May 2014, during a routine patrol of the BGB in Bandarban District, along the Bangladesh-Myanmar border, Myanmar Border Police opened indiscriminate firing on the BGB patrol. The incident took the life of Border Guard Corporal Mizanur Rahman 43. The body of the slain soldier was then carried over the border by Myanmar Border Police. On 30 May upon request of the Myanmar Ambassador to Bangladesh a BGB team was waiting near border pillar no. 52 for identification of the dead body which was proposed by the Myanmar side. However, to the complete surprise of the BGB, Myanmar border forces suddenly started firing on the waiting BGB team without any provocation resulting in the BGB team returning fire. Both sides deescalated and agreed to a cease fire and on the following day Myanmar returned the dead body of BGB Corporal Mizanur Rahman. Bangladesh's Ministry of Foreign Affairs had protested strongly to the Burmese ambassador over the unprovoked eruption of gunfire by Burmese border troops.\n\nOn 26 August 2015 the Arakan Army, A separatist group in Myanmar, attack a BGB patrol in Boro Modak, Thanchi, Bandarban. Two border guards were injured in the attack. On 11 May 2015 the BGB camp in Thanchi came under mortar fire, BGB retaliated by firing two rounds towards the border. Indian BSF agreed to allow BGB to use BSF roads in India to patrol the border on 1 August 2016. On 15 November 2016 Border Guards Bangladesh stopped 86 Rohingyas from entering Bangladesh on two boats. On 6 February 2017 BGB protested with their counterparts in Myanmar Border Guard Police, after they shot and killed a Bangladeshi fisherman in the Naf River. BGB deployed its first female border guards on 24 February 2017 in the Dinajpur border area. BGB and Myanmar Police Force came to an agreement on 6 April 2017 to remove mines from the border area.\n\nThe then-\"East Pakistan Rifles\" joined the Bangladesh War of Independence on the side of Mukti Bahini in 1971. One hundred and forty one members earned gallantry awards for their outstanding contribution to the liberation war of Bangladesh. Naik Nur Mohammad Sheikh and Naik Munshi Abdur Rouf posthumously earned the Bir Sreshtha, which is the highest gallantry award of the nation. 8 earned the Bir Uttom. 40 earned the Bir Bikram and 91 earned the Bir Protik awards.\n\nAfter independence, on 3 March 1972 the force had been renamed as Bangladesh Rifles. As a mark of recognition for the courage and bravery of its members, BDR introduced 'Bangladesh Rifles Podok' in 1985 and President Rifles podok' in 1989. 21 members had received the 'Bangladesh Rifles Podok' 29 had received the 'President Rifles Podok'.\n\n\nThe BGB is commanded by a Major General ranked Bangladesh Army officer. The BGB administration and most of the officer corps are trained and deputed from the Bangladesh Army. There are, however, around 100 officers who are promoted from within the force itself. They can be promoted as high as Deputy Director (Equivalent to Major in Bangladesh Army). Its current strength is 50,000 structured along 63 battalions and numerous border outposts (B.O.P.), mostly along the borders.\nBGB is organised into a central headquarters and 4 regional headquarters. Under the regional headquarters there are 16 sectors.\n\nBGB has adopted a long term modernization plan named \"BGB Goal 2041\" in 2017. The plan intends to make BGB a well-trained, well-equipped and technologically advanced force.\n\nIn short terms, BGB plans for structural and manpower expansion. A new region (equivalent to division) will be raised in Ramu of Cox's Bazar. Three new sectors (equivalent to brigade) will be raised at Ali Kadam of Bandarban, Naogaon and Jessore. Eight new battalions will be formed at Jhikargacha of Jessore, Meherpur, Khagrachari, \"Boro Mowdok\" of Bandarban, Gazipur, Narayanganj and Kulaura of Maulavibazar. Two riverine battalions will be raised in BGB at \"Nildumur\" of Shatkhira and Teknaf of Cox's Bazar. They are the first two units of BGB who will be able to operate in riverine borders and \"char\"s (River island). The number of personnel will be increased from 50000 to 65000 soon. 124 \"Border Out Posts (BOP)\" and 70 heli-support BOPs are being set up in the border areas of hilly districts along the border with Myanmar. 128 \"Border Sentri Posts (BSP)\" are being constructed between the distant BOPs. BGB members ae being equipped with bulletproof vests and ballistic helmet.\n\nA \"Quick Response Force\" will be established for BGB. The force will work to supply modern arms and ammunition swiftly to border points in case of any emergency. For smooth operation in the border areas, border roads are being constructed. In \"BGB day 2017\", prime minister said that the government has undertaken a plan to construct a total of 3,167 km ring road across the borders with India and Myanmar.\n\nBGB intends to go three dimensional as per the plan. Bangladesh government has already approved the proposal for buying two Mi-171E helicopters from Russia at a cost of Tk. 355.10 crore. However, Bangladesh Air Force pilots will fly the helicopters initially. A heliport with hanger is being set up at \"Baitul Izzat\" in Chittagong. Eventually, BGB plans to have four aviation wings.\n\nTo effectively monitor the border, BGB plans to add modern technology to the border management. The plan is to set up cameras, night vision goggles and infrared sensors throughout the border. BGB plans to achieve 3I (Information, Identification, Intervention) capabilities in the border in long term. Having Radar and Satellite monitoring facilities in the border are also planned.\n"}
{"id": "2909461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2909461", "title": "Candelilla wax", "text": "Candelilla wax\n\nCandelilla wax is a wax derived from the leaves of the small Candelilla shrub native to northern Mexico and the southwestern United States, \"Euphorbia cerifera\" and \"Euphorbia antisyphilitica\", from the family \"Euphorbiaceae\". It is yellowish-brown, hard, brittle, aromatic, and opaque to translucent.\n\nWith a melting point of 68.5–72.5 °C, candelilla wax consists of mainly hydrocarbons (about 50%, chains with 29–33 carbons), esters of higher molecular weight (20–29%), free acids (7–9%), and resins (12–14%, mainly triterpenoid esters). The high hydrocarbon content distinguishes this wax from carnauba wax. It is insoluble in water, but soluble in many organic solvents such as acetone, chloroform, benzene, and Turpentine.\n\nThe wax is obtained by boiling the leaves and stems with dilute sulfuric acid, and the resulting \"cerote\" is skimmed from the surface and further processed. In this way, about 900 tons are produced annually<sup>.\n\nIt is mostly used mixed with other waxes to harden them without raising their melting point. As a food additive, candelilla wax has the E number E 902 and is used as a glazing agent. It also finds use in cosmetic industry, as a component of lip balms and lotion bars. One of its major uses is as a binder for chewing gums.\n\nCandelilla wax can be used as a substitute for carnauba wax and beeswax. It is also used for making varnish.\n\n"}
{"id": "4310206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4310206", "title": "Castle Park, Bristol", "text": "Castle Park, Bristol\n\nCastle Park (sometimes referred to as Castle Green) is a public open space in Bristol, England, managed by Bristol City Council. It is bounded by the Floating Harbour and Castle Street to the south, Lower Castle Street to the east, and Broad Weir, Newgate and Wine Street to the north. Its western boundary is less obviously defined and has been the subject of controversy, perhaps because the area around High Street and St Mary le Port Church, though not part of the park and always intended for development, is often considered at the same time as the park. \n\nOpened on 30 September 1978, the park occupies the site of what was once Bristol's main shopping district. The area was largely destroyed by the Luftwaffe during the Blitz, and that which remained was subsequently demolished. In the years since the end of the Second World War, Castle Park has become home to a number of anti-fascist memorials.\n\nThe ruined tower of St Mary-le-Port Church stands to the west of the park, surrounded by derelict financial office buildings. Adjoining the ruins of St Peter's Church in the middle of the park is a sensory herb garden, and five silver birch trees as a memorial to the beaches of the D-Day landings. To the east is a grassy arena, and the partially excavated remains of Bristol Castle with a preserved vaulted chamber. There is also a bandstand and a children's play area.\n\nTree-lined St Peter's Square, to the north of St Peter's church, has been home to various events including German Christmas markets. In recent summers a tethered balloon has been placed near the bandstand, offering ascents to sightseers.\n\nRecent attempts to develop the area between the park's western edge and High Street have proved controversial; Bristol City Council are keen to replace derelict buildings with a mixed-use development to help reconnect the Old City to Broadmead and raise funds to improve the park; others would rather see the park extended to High Street.\n\nThe town of Bristol was settled at some time in the Anglo-Saxon period on the northern or Mercian side of a crossing point of the River Avon, at or near to the present Bristol Bridge. The town lay entirely between the Avon and the Frome, which at that time emerged into the Avon just downstream of Bristol Bridge.\n\nArchaeological excavations of the area in 1962-1963 suggest that the original settlement was centred to the east of St Peter's Church, with Mary-le-Port on its western limit. The building of Bristol Castle in the latter part of the 11th century resulted in the focus of the settlement being moved to the west, where it developed into a symmetrical plan centred on the crossroads of High Street, Wine Street, Broad Street and Corn Street. The area around Mary-le-Port Street was thus the most ancient part of the mediaeval city. Bristol Castle was home to the Norman garrison, and was a massive structure whose keep was comparable to that of the Tower of London. The castle occupied the whole of the eastern end of today's Castle park, from just east of St Peter's Church to Lower Castle Street.\n\nIn 1612 Robert Aldworth, Mayor of Bristol, rebuilt St Peter's Hospital on a site between St Peter's Church and the Floating Harbour. This 'beautiful house with its elaborate carving' became the Bristol Mint in 1695, and was considered to be Bristol's greatest architectural loss of the Second World War.\n\nBy the 16th century the castle was 'tending to ruin', and following his victory in the English Civil War Oliver Cromwell decreed its destruction in 1655, a process which was completed within a fortnight. The castle had stood on the main route from Bristol to London, and following its destruction a commercial avenue opened along Castle Street from the mediaeval city towards Old Market. The demolition of Lawford's Gate at the eastern end of Old Market Street extended this into West Street, creating an uninterrupted route into the bustling heart of Bristol.\n\nWine Street and Castle Street became the main shopping streets, where retailers such as Boots, Jones's (later to become part of the Debenhams group), the Co-op and Marks & Spencer traded. Baker Baker had large stores in Bridge Street, Wine Street and Mary le Port Street; two of these were connected by a high bridge across Mary-le-Port Street. The area also hosted a cinema (the News Theatre) and its narrow winding back-streets contained many independent shops, hotels, and pubs. At the corner of High Street and Wine Street stood the 'most loved fragment of Old Bristol': The Dutch House.\n\nOn the afternoon of 24 November 1940, 148 aircraft of the Luftwaffe left airfields in Northern France heading for Bristol. The concentration point was to be the City Docks, and their objective was to destroy Bristol's industry and port facilities. 135 aircraft reached the target area, and dropped of high explosives, of oil bombs and 12,500 incendiaries. As the raid progressed, the fires could be seen from away. Wide areas of the city were struck, but the most concentrated damage occurred in the area between Broad Quay and Old Market where fierce fires burnt through the night. By the morning, 200 Bristolians were dead and 689 injured, four Luftwaffe crewmen were dead, one injured and four captured, two aircraft were lost, and a large part of the historic heart of Bristol was a smouldering ruin.\n\nThe destruction was not total, however. Post-war photographs show that buildings survived intact on Bridge Street,\nHigh Street, Castle Street \nand Peter Street.\nThe west end of Narrow Wine Street, a 'fantastic little old thoroughfare', was more or less intact; Castle Mill Street and Castle Green received little damage,\nand Upper, Middle and Lower Terrace survived. More importantly, the irreplaceable mediaeval street plan remained.\n\nThe idea that Bristol's main shopping area should be moved away from the Castle Street and Wine Street area was first proposed to Bristol Corporation's Planning and Reconstruction Committee by the Multiple Traders' Federation (MTF), representing the larger retailers and chain-stores, in October 1943. They suggested that the pre-war shopping area should be set aside as a civic area with perhaps a concert hall or similar building and an open space, and that the central shopping area should be moved to a less-constrained site. This suggestion formed part of the City Engineer's Master Plan of February 1944, which envisaged that the area would contain a limited number of buildings such as a conference hall, with underground parking for 2,000 cars. The removal of the shopping area was considered desirable because the fire that had destroyed so much of the area was in large part sustained by its congested nature, and in any case many of the chain-stores represented by the MTF wanted larger sites.\n\nThe main objection to this plan came from the independent traders who did not wish to relocate because they felt that the proposed new shopping area was 'off the beaten track'. This objection was not unreasonable, as in its pre-war topography Bristol had a long shopping axis that started at Stapleton Road to the east, passed through Old Market into Castle Street, Wine Street, and the City Markets, and then via The Centre and Park Street to Queens Road and Whiteladies Road. Moving the central shopping area would break this axis. There was also concern about the serious negative social and economic impacts of 'sterilising' such a large area in the centre of the city. However, when the Bristol Retail Traders Federation, representing the small traders, produced a poll showing that 13,000 people wished to retain the shopping centre on its current site whereas only 400 preferred to see it moved, the local Labour party dismissed the poll describing it as 'undemocratic' and comparing the Federation's methods to those of Hitler.\n\nBy 1966, the shops had been rebuilt in 'barren' Broadmead (at the expense of demolishing an area of Victorian, Georgian and Tudor buildings that had escaped the wartime bombing more or less unscathed), and the Wine Street and Castle Street area was being used for car parking. The picturesque area around Narrow Wine Street and Castle Mill Street had been demolished to create modern Newgate, and Old Market, severed from Bristol's shopping axis by the new Temple Way Underpass and the destruction of Castle Street, was in serious decline. The plan for Castle Park was crystallising, however. The ruined St Peter's Church would be surrounded by a museum and an art gallery; to the east of this there would be an arts centre and the remaining area east to Lower Castle Street would be a park. The south-western corner nearest Bristol Bridge would contain a riverside hotel, and the north-western corner would be home to 'a block for cultural, professional and exhibition purposes'.\n\nIn the event, the north-western corner was leased to the Bank of England and Norwich Union Insurance (whose offices now stand derelict), and the critical corner site where the Dutch House had stood was replaced by a link road to a short section of dual-carriageway linking High Street with Wine Street. Plans for a civic centre were dropped as being too expensive.\n\nFinally, in 1977, work began on an emasculated version of the new park. This was designed by Bristol City Council's parks department and, largely for financial reasons, it contained few of the features intended by earlier plans but was much larger than that originally planned. The last remaining vestiges of the mediaeval street plan, Dolphin Street and Peter Street, were buried.\n\nIn 2006, Bristol City Council announced its intention to redevelop the area to the west of Castle Park, known as the 'Mary-le-Port' site. These plans encompassed the by then derelict financial buildings, and the area to the west of St Peter's church, about 5% of the park. It was to be a mixed-use development to 'regenerate this historic heart of Bristol' and to 'improve connections between Broadmead, the Old City and Redcliffe' and 'enhance the setting of St Mary-le-Port church'. The council selected Deeley Freed as its preferred developer.\nThe scheme provoked opposition from park users who felt that any reduction in the area of the park was not acceptable. 'Surprised by the extent of feeling', Bristol City Council decided to revise the plans. Campaigners then applied to have 'Town Green' status applied to the park, but this was declined in 2009.\n\nIn 2010, the Mary-le-Port site was listed as being 'for sale' by Bristol City Council.\n\nIn March 2016, Bristol City Council approved plans for an S-shaped footbridge over the Floating Harbour, linking the park to the Finzels Reach development. It was opened on 6 April 2017. The next day, it was announced that the bridge was named Castle Bridge by local singer Barry Walsh.\n\nVery little of Bristol Castle remains above ground. The most tangible survival is a vaulted chamber of the King's Hall, formerly on Tower Street near the now-truncated Castle Street. Other than that, the excavated remains of the south wall can be seen near the landing stage, and near St Peter's Church the sally port and traces of the west wall are visible. The foundations of the keep are on show next to the public toilets on Newgate.\nThe park contains a number of memorials.\nThe ruins of St Peter's Church are a memorial to the civilians and auxiliary personnel killed in the aerial bombing of Bristol, and a plaque on its wall lists their names. Adjoining the church is a sensory herb garden and The Normandy Garden of Peace, which was opened on 5 November 1995, with five Silver Birch trees, managed by Bristol's D-Day veterans, in memory of the five D-Day beaches. There are also memorial trees for Anne Frank and the victims of the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki.\n\nThe park also contains a memorial plaque dedicated to citizens from Bristol who died fighting against the Nationalist forces during the Spanish Civil War, framed by a mosaic composed of the colours of the flag of the Second Spanish Republic.\n\nThe ruined tower of St Mary-le-Port church, subject of a painting by John Piper that appeared on a 1968 1s. 6d. postage stamp,\nstands on the western edge of the park, surrounded by now-derelict buildings.\n\nCastle Park contains a number of listed buildings and scheduled monuments: \n"}
{"id": "1975169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1975169", "title": "Circlet", "text": "Circlet\n\nA circlet is a piece of headgear that is similar to a diadem or a chaplet. The word circlet is also used to refer to the base of a crown or a coronet with or without a cap. Diadem and circlet are often used interchangeably, and \"open crowns\" with no arches (as opposed to \"closed crowns\"), have also been referred to as circlets. In Greek this is known as \"stephanos\" and in Latin as \"corona aperta\". \"Stephanos\" is associated with laurel wreaths and the crown of thorns said to have been placed on the head of Jesus.\n\nIn heraldry a circlet of an order of knighthood can be placed around the shield of the bearer to signify membership of a particular order. In British heraldry this pertains to the grades of Commander and above (\"ie.\" Knight Commander and Knight Grand Cross).\n\n"}
{"id": "1628800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1628800", "title": "Citizens for Global Solutions", "text": "Citizens for Global Solutions\n\nCitizens for Global Solutions is a grassroots membership organization in the United States that advocates for a democratic federation of nations with enforceable world law to abolish war and global violence in the resolution of disputes, protect universal human rights and freedoms, and restore and sustain the global environment.\n\nThe organization’s education fund develops proposals for creating, reforming, and strengthening international laws and institutions and educate Americans about global interdependence. Its political action committee, Global Solutions PAC, which is not affiliated with any political party, endorses candidates for Congress based on their record or expressed intention of supporting effective democratic global institutions. CGS also scores members of Congress with a Congressional Report Card.\n\nFollowing World War II, the notion of world federalism took root in the formal legal creation and ratification of the United Nations and an entire further system of international organizations. Five world federalist organizations merged in 1947 to form the United World Federalists, Inc., later renamed World Federalists-USA. In 1975, the organization turned its focus to educational activities as the World Federalist Association (WFA), while members who wanted to continue political action efforts formed the Campaign for UN Reform (CUNR). The two groups merged as Citizens for Global Solutions (CGS) in 2003.\n\nIn 2006, CGS launched a campaign to prevent the confirmation of John Bolton as U.S. ambassador to the UN. Bolton, who had been serving in the role as a recess appointment, withdrew from consideration that December.\n\n"}
{"id": "247000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=247000", "title": "Civil service entrance examination", "text": "Civil service entrance examination\n\nCivil service examinations (also public tendering) are examinations implemented in various countries for recruitment and admission to the civil service. They are intended as a method to achieve an effective, rational public administration on a merit system for recruiting prospective politicians and public sector employees.\n\nThe most ancient example of such exams were the imperial examinations of ancient China.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51550855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51550855", "title": "Deception technology", "text": "Deception technology\n\nDeception technology is an emerging category of cyber security defense. Deception technology products can detect, analyze, and defend against zero-day and advanced attacks, often in real time. They are automated, accurate, and provide insight into malicious activity within internal networks which may be unseen by other types of cyber defense. Deception technology enables a more proactive security posture by seeking to deceive the attackers, detect them and then defeat them, allowing the enterprise to return to normal operations.\n\nExisting defense-in-depth cyber technologies have struggled against the increasing wave of sophisticated and persistent human attackers. These technologies seek primarily to defend a perimeter, but both firewalls and end-point security cannot defend a perimeter with 100% certainty. Cyber-attackers can penetrate these networks and move unimpeded for months, stealing data and intellectual property. Heuristics may find an attacker within the network, but often generate so many alerts that critical alerts are missed. Since 2014 attacks have accelerated and there is evidence that cyber-attackers are penetrating traditional defenses at a rapidly increasing rate.\n\nDeception technology considers the human attacker's point of view and methodology for exploiting and navigating networks to identify and exfiltrate data. It integrates with existing technologies to provide new visibility into the internal networks, share high probability alerts and threat intelligence with the existing infrastructure.\n\nDeception technology automates the creation of traps (decoys) and/or lures which are mixed among and within existing IT resources to provide a layer of protection to stop attackers that have penetrated the network. Traps (decoys) are IT assets that either use real licensed operating system software, or are emulations of these devices.\n\nTraps (decoys) which use emulations can also imitate medical devices, automated teller machines (ATMs), retail point of sale systems, switches, routers and much more. Lures are generally real information technology resources (files of varying kinds) which are placed on actual IT assets.\n\nUpon penetrating the network, attackers seek to establish a backdoor and then use this to identify and exfiltrate data and intellectual property. They begin moving laterally through the internal VLANs and almost immediately will \"look at\" one of the traps (decoys). Interacting with one of these \"decoys\" will trigger an alert. These alerts are very high probability and almost always coincide to an ongoing attack. The deception is designed to lure the attacker in – the attacker may consider this a worthy asset and continue by injecting malware. Deception technology generally allows for automated static and dynamic analysis of this injected malware and provides these reports through automation to the security operations personnel. Deception technology may also identify, through indicators of compromise (IOC), suspect end-points that are part of the compromise cycle. Automation also allows for an automated memory analysis of the suspect end-point, and then automatically isolating the suspect end-point. Many partner integrations allow for a variety of implementation paths for existing enterprise and government customers.\n\nInternet of things (IoT) devices are not usually scanned by legacy defense in depth cyber defense and remain prime targets for attackers within the network. Deception technology can identify attackers moving laterally into the network from within these devices.\n\nIntegrated turnkey devices that utilize embedded operating systems, but do not allow these operating systems to be scanned or closely protected by embedded end-point or intrusion detection software are also well protected by a deception technology deployment in the same network. Examples include process control systems (SCADA) used in many manufacturing applications on a global basis. Deception technology has been associated with the discovery of Zombie Zero, an attack vector wherein deception technology identified an attacker utilizing malware embedded in barcode readers which were manufactured overseas.\n\nMedical devices are particular vulnerable to cyber attacks within the healthcare networks. As FDA-certified devices they are closed systems and not accessible to standard cyber defense software. Deception technology can surround and protect these devices and identify attackers using these for backdoor placement and data exfiltration. Recent documented cyber attacks on medical devices include x-ray machines, CT scanners, MRI scanners, blood gas analyzers, PACS systems and many more. Networks utilizing these devices can be protected by deception technology. This attack vector, called medical device hijack or medjack, is estimated to have penetrated many hospitals worldwide.\n\nSpecialized deception technology products are now capable of addressing the rise in ransomware. Select products can deceive ransomware into engaging in an attack on a decoy resource, while isolating the infection points and alerting the cyber defense software team.\n\nHoneypots were perhaps the first very simple form of deception. A honeypot appeared simply as an unprotected information technology resource and presented itself in an attractive way to a prospective attacker already within the network. The notion of honeypots deceiving attackers, perhaps delaying and identifying them, and then ultimately supporting efforts to shut down the attack was a good one. Potential benefits aside, most early honeypots exhibit challenges with functionality, integrity and overall efficacy in meeting these goals. Key was the lack of automation that enabled broad scale of deployment. A deployment strategy would seek to cover the enterprise where up to tens of thousands of VLANS must be protected won't be economically efficient using manual processes and manual configuration.\n\nThe gap between legacy honeypots and modern deception technology has diminished over time and will continue to do so. Modern honeypots constitute the low end of the deception technology space today.\n\nTraditional cyber defense technologies, such as firewalls and end-point security, generate many alerts. In a large enterprise the alert volume may reach, in some cases, millions of alerts per day. Security operations personnel cannot process most of the activity easily, yet it only takes one successful penetration to compromise an entire network.\n\nDeception technology produces alerts that are the end product of a binary process. Probability is essentially reduced to two values: 0% and 100%. Any party that seeks to identify, ping, enter, view any trap (decoy) or utilizes a lure is immediately identified by this behavior. Anyone touching these traps or lures should not be doing so. This is an advantage over heuristics and probability-based approaches and the many thousands of extraneous alerts these techniques generate.\n\nBest practice shows that deception technology is not a stand-alone strategy. Deception technology is an additional compatible layer to the existing defense-in-depth cyber defense. Partner integrations make it most useful and the goal is to add protection for the most advanced and sophisticated human attackers that will successfully penetrate the perimeter.\n\nThe technical innovation of deception technology been received by the market. An industry analyst identified ten top technologies for information security in 2016, one of which were deception technology. \n\nAn industry analyst predicted in August 2016 that the deception technology market is currently (in 2016) approximately $50 to $100 million globally, and further predicted $100 million to $200 million in revenue by 2018. This same analyst earlier noted that, \"by 2018 ... 10 percent of enterprises will use deception tools and tactics, and actively participate in deception operations against attackers\". Gartner also noted deception technology as a \"far underutilized technology that can provide serious advantages over attackers (cyber attackers)\".\n\nTwo other important analysts have recently predicted a market size exceeding $1 billion by 2020. Adoption is being fueled, in part, by continued, highly visible targeted attacks on large enterprise and government institutions globally.\n\nMarket Research Media estimates the cumulative deception technology market value at $12 billion (2017–2022), growing at about 19% CAGR.\n\nThe list of participating vendors includes:\n\nAllure Security Technology, Acalvio Technologies, Attivo Networks, CounterCraft, CyberTrap, Cymmetria, ForeScout, GuardiCore, Hexis Cyber Solutions, Illusive Networks, LogRhythm, Percipient Networks, Rapid7, Shape Security, Smokescreen Technologies, Specter, Tamarin Security, Thinkst, TrapX Security and Topspin Security.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38776986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38776986", "title": "Economic globalization", "text": "Economic globalization\n\nEconomic globalization is one of the three main dimensions of globalization commonly found in academic literature, with the two others being political globalization and cultural globalization, as well as the general term of globalization.\nEconomic globalization refers to the widespread international movement of goods, capital, services, technology and information. It is the increasing economic integration and interdependence of national, regional, and local economies across the world through an intensification of cross-border movement of goods, services, technologies and capital. Whereas globalization is a broad set of processes concerning multiple networks of economic, political, and cultural interchange, contemporary economic globalization is propelled by the rapid growing significance of information in all types of productive activities and marketization, and by developments in science and technology.\n\nEconomic globalization primarily comprises the globalization of production, finance, markets, technology, organizational regimes, institutions, corporations, and labour. While economic globalization has been expanding since the emergence of trans-national trade, it has grown at an increased rate due to an increase in communication and technological advances under the framework of General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade and World Trade Organization, which made countries gradually cut down trade barriers and open up their current accounts and capital accounts. This recent boom has been largely supported by developed economies integrating with majority world through foreign direct investment and lowering costs of doing business, the reduction of trade barriers, and in many cases cross border migration\n\nWhile globalization has radically increased incomes and economic growth in developing countries and lowered consumer prices in developed countries, it also changes the power balance between developing and developed countries and affects the culture of each affected country. And the shifting location of goods production has caused many jobs to cross borders, requiring some workers in developed countries to change careers.\n\nInternational commodity markets, labor markets, and capital markets make up the economy and define economic globalization.\n\nBeginning as early as 6500 BCE, people in Syria were trading livestock, tools, and other items. In Sumer, an early civilization in Mesopotamia, a token system was one of the first forms of commodity money. Labor markets consist of workers, employers, wages, income, supply and demand. Labor markets have been around as long as commodity markets. The first labor markets provided workers to grow crops and tend livestock for later sale in local markets. Capital markets emerged in industries that require resources beyond those of an individual farmer.\n\nGlobalization is about interconnecting people around the world beyond the physical barrier of geographical boundaries.\n\nThese advances in economic globalization were disrupted by World War I. Most of the global economic powers constructed protectionist economic policies and introduced trade barriers that slowed trade growth to the point of stagnation. This caused a slowing of worldwide trade and even led to other countries introducing immigration caps. Globalization did not fully resume until the 1970s, when governments began to emphasize the benefits of trade. Today, follow-on advances in technology have led to the rapid expansion of global trade.\n\nThree suggested factors accelerated economic globalization: advancement of science and technology, market oriented economic reforms, and contributions by multinational corporations.\n\nThe 1956 invention of containerized shipping, along with increases in ship sizes, were a major part of the reduction in shipping costs.\n\nThe GATT/WTO framework led participating countries to reduce their tariff and non-tariff barriers to trade. Governments shifted their economies from central planning to markets. These internal reforms allowed enterprises to adapt more quickly and exploit opportunities created by technology shifts.\n\nMultinational corporations reorganized production to take advantage of these opportunities. Labor-intensive production migrated to areas with lower labor costs, later followed by other functions as skill levels increased. Networks raised the level of wealth consumption and geographical mobility. This highly dynamic worldwide system and powerful ramifications.\n\nOn 27 October 1986, the London Stock Exchange enacted newly deregulated rules that enabled global interconnection of markets, with an expectation of huge increases in market activity. This event came to be known as the Big Bang.\n\nAn intergovernmental organization or international governmental organization (IGO) refers to an entity created by treaty, involving two or more nations, to work in good faith, on issues of common interest. IGO’s strive for peace, security and deal with economic and social questions. Examples include: The United Nations, The World Bank and on a regional level The North Atlantic Treaty Organization among others.\n\nDespite its activity within one nation, NGOs work towards solutions that can benefit undeveloped countries that face the backlash of economic globalization. Classified as any non-profit, voluntary citizens' group which is organized on a local, national or international level. NGOs perform various services and humanitarian functions, bring citizen concerns to Governments, advocate and monitor policies and encourage political participation through provision of information.\n\nOne of the many changes they have brought to developing countries is increased automation, which may damage less-automated local firms and require their workers to develop new skills in order to transition into the changing economy, leaving some behind. The necessary education infrastructure is often not present, requiring a redirection of the government’s focus from social services to education. Corporations have outsourced in recent years. In business, outsourcing involves the contracting out of a business process (e.g. payroll processing, claims processing) and operational, and/or non-core functions (e.g. manufacturing, facility management, call center support) to another party (see also business process outsourcing).\n\nECLAC states that in order to create better economic relations globally, international lending agencies must work with developing countries to change how and where credit is concentrated as well as work towards accelerating financial development in developing countries. ECLAC further suggests that the United Nations expand its agenda to work more rigorously with international lending agencies and that they become more inclusive of all nations. Key factors in achieving universal competition is the spread of knowledge at the State level through education, training and technological advancements. Economist Jagdish Bhagwati suggested that programs to help developing countries adjust to the global economy would be beneficial for international economic relations.\n\nSeveral movements, such as the fair trade movement and the anti-sweatshop movement, claim to promote a more socially just global economy. The fair trade movement works towards improving trade, development and production for disadvantaged producers. The fair trade movement has reached 1.6 billion US dollars in annual sales. The movement works to raise consumer awareness of exploitation of developing countries. Fair trade works under the motto of \"trade, not aid\", to improve the quality of life for farmers and merchants by participating in direct sales, providing better prices and supporting the community. Meanwhile, the anti-sweatshop movement is to protest the unfair treatment caused by some companies. Some global brands were found to do that before but they took some methods to support the labors soon after. The movement is taken to decrease the wrongdoing and gain the profits for labors.\n\nGlobalization is sometimes perceived as a cause of a phenomenon called the \"race to the bottom\" that implies that multinational companies are constantly attempting to maintain or increase their influence in countries that are already reliant on foreign investment alone. Multinationals tend to target export dependent countries. Due to a rise in competition, underdeveloped countries are undercutting their competitors through lowering their labor standards thus lowering the labor costs for the multinational companies investing into them. Companies will deliberately move into countries with the most relaxed laws and regulations for labor standards allowing them to do whatever they want. This results in factories with harsh labor conditions, low wages, and job insecurity.\n\nAccording to prominent Chinese economist Gao Shangquan, economic globalization is an irreversible trend due to the fact that world markets are in great need of science and information technologies. With the growing demands of science and technology, Gao states that with world markets take on an \"increasing cross-border division of labor\".\n\nHowever, Princeton University professor Robert Gilpin argues that nations' economic policies have mistakenly slowed their own growth by resisting globalization, showing that globalization is not irreversible. Antonio L. Rappa agrees that economic globalization is reversible and cites International Studies professor Peter J. Katzenstein. However Thomas Friedman argues in his book that globalisation is both irreversible and inevitable.\n\nEconomic growth accelerated and poverty declined globally following the acceleration of globalization. \n\nAccording to the International Monetary Fund, growth benefits of economic globalization are widely shared. While several globalizers have seen an increase in inequality, most notably China, this increase in inequality is a result of domestic liberalization, restrictions on internal migration, and agricultural policies, rather than a result of international trade.\n\nPoverty has been reduced as evidenced by a 5.4 percent annual growth in income for the poorest fifth of the population of Malaysia. Even in China, where inequality continues to be a problem, the poorest fifth of the population saw a 3.8 percent annual growth in income. In several countries, those living below the dollar-per-day poverty threshold declined. In China, the rate declined from 20 to 15 percent and in Bangladesh the rate dropped from 43 to 36 percent.\n\nGlobalizers are narrowing the per capita income gap between the rich and the globalizing nations. China, India, and Bangladesh, once among the poorest countries in the world, have greatly narrowed inequality due to their economic expansion.\n\nThe global supply chain consists of complex interconnected networks that allow companies to produce handle and distribute various goods and services to the public worldwide.\n\nCorporations manage their supply chain to take advantage of cheaper costs of production. A supply chain is a system of organizations, people, activities, information, and resources involved in moving a product or service from supplier to customer. Supply chain activities involve the transformation of natural resources, raw materials, and components into a finished product that is delivered to the end customer. In sophisticated supply chain systems, used products may re-enter the supply chain at any point where residual value is recyclable. Supply chains link value chains. Supply and demand can be very fickle, depending on factors such as the weather, consumer demand, and large orders placed by multinational corporations.\n\nLabor unions were established during industrialization as a solution to poor and unregulated working conditions. Unregulated businesses allowed for low wages, job insecurity and poor working conditions. Trade unions responded by implementing a technique called collective bargaining, where the workers could legally negotiate wages as well as working conditions. As a direct result, labors rights increased as policy and regulation were enforced. Alongside globalization, outsourcing developed which increased corporate power. As a solution, Labor Unions continue to fight for global labor rights standards through trans-national organizations.\n\nCapital flight occurs when assets or money rapidly flow out of a country because of that country's recent increase in unfavorable financial conditions such as taxes, tariffs, labor costs, government debt or capital controls. This is usually accompanied by a sharp drop in the exchange rate of the affected country or a forced devaluation for countries living under fixed exchange rates. Currency declines improve the terms of trade, but reduce the monetary value of financial and other assets in the country. This leads to decreases in the purchasing power of the country's assets.\n\nA 2008 paper published by Global Financial Integrity estimated capital flight to be leaving developing countries at the rate of \"$850 billion to $1 trillion a year.\" But capital flight also affects developed countries. A 2009 article in \"The Times\" reported that hundreds of wealthy financiers and entrepreneurs had recently fled the United Kingdom in response to recent tax increases, relocating to low tax destinations such as Jersey, Guernsey, the Isle of Man and the British Virgin Islands. In May 2012 the scale of Greek capital flight in the wake of the first \"undecided\" legislative election was estimated at €4 billion a week.\n\nCapital flight can cause liquidity crises in directly affected countries and can cause related difficulties in other countries involved in international commerce such as shipping and finance. Asset holders may be forced into distress sales. Borrowers typically face higher loan costs and collateral requirements, compared to periods of ample liquidity, and unsecured debt is nearly impossible to obtain. Typically, during a liquidity crisis, the interbank lending market stalls.\n\nWhile within-country income inequality has increased throughout the globalization period, globally inequality has lessened as developing countries have experienced much more rapid growth. Economic inequality varies between societies, historical periods, economic structures or economic systems, ongoing or past wars, between genders, and between differences in individuals' abilities to create wealth. Among the various numerical indices for measuring economic inequality, the Gini coefficient is most often-cited.\n\nEconomic inequality affects equity, equality of outcome and subsequent equality of opportunity. Although earlier studies considered economic inequality as necessary and beneficial, some economists see it as an important social problem. Early studies suggesting that greater equality inhibits economic growth did not account for lags between inequality changes and growth changes. Later studies claimed that one of the most robust determinants of sustained economic growth is the level of income inequality.\n\nInternational inequality is inequality between countries. Income differences between rich and poor countries are very large, although they are changing rapidly. Per capita incomes in China and India doubled in the prior twenty years, a feat that required 150 years in the US. According to the United Nations Human Development Report for 2013, for countries at varying levels of the UN Human Development Index the GNP per capita grew between 2004 and 2013 from 24,806 to 33,391 or 35% (very high human development), 4,269 to 5,428 or 27% (medium) and 1,184 to 1,633 or 38% (low) PPP$, respectively (PPP$ = purchasing power parity measured in United States dollars).\n\nCertain demographic changes in the developing world after active economic liberalization and international integration resulted in rising welfare and hence, reduced inequality. According to Martin Wolf, in the developing world as a whole, life expectancy rose by four months each year after 1970 and infant mortality rate declined from 107 per thousand in 1970 to 58 in 2000 due to improvements in standards of living and health conditions. Also, adult literacy in developing countries rose from 53% in 1970 to 74% in 1998 and much lower illiteracy rate among the young guarantees that rates will continue to fall as time passes. Furthermore, the reduction in fertility rates in the developing world as a whole from 4.1 births per woman in 1980 to 2.8 in 2000 indicates improved education level of women on fertility, and control of fewer children with more parental attention and investment. Consequentially, more prosperous and educated parents with fewer children have chosen to withdraw their children from the labor force to give them opportunities to be educated at school improving the issue of child labor. Thus, despite seemingly unequal distribution of income within these developing countries, their economic growth and development have brought about improved standards of living and welfare for the population as a whole.\n\nRecent developments, such as just-in-time manufacturing, have affected those working manufacturing jobs and agricultural work more than others. When larger companies or others who control the supply chain decide to reduce manufacturing, these people oftentimes find themselves out of a job with little or no assistance.\n\nAlongside globalization there is an increasing internationalization of health risks. Corporations resort to outsourced employment in developing nations, which in turn forces low income foreigners at the bottom of the \"food chain,\" as individuals drudge for pennies on the dollar under unregulated, unsanitary and implacable conditions. Women in agriculture, for example, are often asked to work long hours handling chemicals such as pesticides and fertilizers without any protection. There are adverse health consequences from working long hours and individuals that burden themselves from working within vasts global supply chains.\n\nSeth, Divya, and Nimali Singh published research evidence linking a wide range of health risks and overworking. The article argued that time is of the essence; in short time is a necessity for an individual's health whether the subject is behavior, vising the doctor’s office, and essential care. There is a direct correlation with stress and has been the cause for 24% of cardiovascular disease cases including strokes and heart attacks. Although both men and women experience shortcomings with health, the final reports stated that women, with the double burden of domestic and paid work experience an increased the risk of psychological distress and suboptimal health. Strazdins concluded that negative work-family spillover especially is associated with health problems among both women and men, and negative family-work spillover is related to a poorer health status among women.\"\n\nIt is common for the work lifestyle to bring forth adverse health conditions or even death due to weak safety measure policies. After the tragic collapse of the Rana Plaza factory in Bangladesh where over 800 deaths occurred the country has since then made efforts in boosting up their safety policies to better accommodate workers.\n\nCorporations set their place of production usually in areas with little to no labor regulations, and as a result low labor cost occurs. With the low labor regulations, there are risks for mistreatment of some workers, especially women and children. Poor working conditions and sexual harassment are just some of the mistreatment faced by women in the textile supply chain. Marina Prieto-Carrón shows in her research in Central America that women in sweatshops are not even supplied with toilet paper in the bathroom everyday. The reason it costs corporations more is because people can not work to their full potential in poor conditions, affecting the global marketplace. Furthermore, when corporations decide to change manufacturing rates or locations in industries that employ more women, they are often left with no job nor assistance. This kind of sudden reduction or elimination in hours is seen in industries such as the textile industry and agriculture industry, both which employ a higher amount of women than men. One solution to mistreatment of women in the supply chain is more involvement from the corporation and trying to regulate the outsourcing of their product.\n\nA tax haven is a state, country or territory where certain taxes are levied at a low rate or not at all, which are used by businesses for tax avoidance and tax evasion. Individuals and/or corporate entities can find it attractive to move themselves to areas with reduced taxation. This creates a situation of tax competition among governments. Taxes vary substantially across jurisdictions. Sovereign states have theoretically unlimited powers to enact tax laws affecting their territories, unless limited by previous international treaties. The central feature of a tax haven is that its laws and other measures can be used to evade or avoid the tax laws or regulations of other jurisdictions. In its December 2008 report on the use of tax havens by American corporations, the U.S. Government Accountability Office was unable to provide a satisfactory definition of a tax haven, but regarded the following characteristics as indicative of it: nil or nominal taxes; lack of effective exchange of tax information with foreign tax authorities; lack of transparency in the operation of legislative, legal or administrative provisions; no requirement for a substantive local presence; and self-promotion as an offshore financial center.\n\nA 2012 report from the Tax Justice Network estimated that between USD $21 trillion and $32 trillion is sheltered from taxes in tax havens worldwide. If such hidden offshore assets are considered, many countries with governments nominally in debt would be net creditor nations. However, the tax policy director of the Chartered Institute of Taxation expressed skepticism over the accuracy of the figures. Daniel J. Mitchell of the US-based Cato Institute says that the report also assumes, when considering notional lost tax revenue, that 100% of the money deposited offshore is evading payment of tax.\n\nThe tax shelter benefits result in a tax incidence disadvantaging the poor. Many tax havens are thought to have connections to \"fraud, money laundering and terrorism.\" Accountants' opinions on the propriety of tax havens have been evolving, as have the opinions of their corporate users, governments, and politicians, although their use by Fortune 500 companies and others remains widespread. Reform proposals centering on the Big Four accountancy firms have been advanced. Some governments appear to be using computer spyware to scrutinize corporations' finances.\n\nThe Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean (ECLAC) has proposed an agenda to support conditions for developing countries to improve their standing in the global economy. However, the advantaged countries continue to control the economic agenda. Lechner and Boli state that the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund must give voice to developing countries.\n\nEconomic globalization may affect culture. Populations may mimic the international flow of capital and labor markets in the form of immigration and the merger of cultures. Foreign resources and economic measures may affect different native cultures and may cause assimilation of a native people. As these populations are exposed to the English language, computers, western music, and North American culture, changes are being noted in shrinking family size, immigration to larger cities, more casual dating practices, and gender roles are transformed.\n\nYu Xintian noted two contrary trends in culture due to economic globalization. Yu argued that culture and industry not only flow from the developed world to the rest, but trigger an effort to protect local cultures. He notes that economic globalization began after World War II, whereas internationalization began over a century ago.\n\nGeorge Ritzer wrote about the McDonaldization of society and how fast food businesses spread throughout the United States and the rest of the world, attracting other places to adopt fast food culture. Ritzer describes other businesses such as The Body Shop, a British cosmetics company, that have copied McDonald's business model for expansion and influence. In 2006, 233 of 280 or over 80% of new McDonald's opened outside the US. In 2007, Japan had 2,828 McDonald's locations.\n\nGlobal media companies export information around the world. This creates a mostly one-way flow of information, and exposure to mostly western products and values. Companies like CNN, Reuters and the BBC dominate the global airwaves with western points of view. Other media news companies such as Qatar's Al Jazeera network offer a different point of view, but reach and influence fewer people.\n\n\"With an estimated 210 million people living outside their country of origin (International Labour Organization [ILO] 2010), international migration has touched the lives of almost everyone in both the sending and receiving countries of the Global South and the Global North\". Because of advances made in technology, human beings as well as goods are able to move through different countries and regions with relative ease.\n\n"}
{"id": "27501246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27501246", "title": "Economic reform of Iraq", "text": "Economic reform of Iraq\n\nEconomic reform in Iraq describes decisions by the Coalition Provisional Authority to dramatically change the economy of Iraq in the aftermath of the 2003 U.S.-led invasion.\n\nPrior to US occupation, Iraq had a centrally planned economy. Among other things, it prohibited foreign ownership of Iraqi businesses, ran most large industries as state-owned enterprises, and imposed large tariffs to keep out foreign goods. After the 2003 Invasion of Iraq, the Coalition Provisional Authority quickly began issuing many binding orders privatizing Iraq's economy and opening it up to foreign investment.\n\nEconomic reform was implemented alongside reform of government institutions, the Iraqi legal system, and significant international investment to repair or replace damaged infrastructure of Iraq.\n\nWhile reform efforts have produced some successes, problems have arisen with the implementation of internationally funded Iraq reconstruction efforts. These include inadequate security, pervasive corruption, insufficient funding and poor coordination among international agencies and local communities.\n\nPaul Bremer, chief executive the Coalition Provisional Authority of Iraq, planned to restructure Iraq's state owned economy with free market thinking.\nBremer dropped the corporate tax rate from around 45% to a flat tax rate of 15% and allowed foreign corporations to repatriate all profits earned in Iraq. Opposition from senior Iraqi officials, together with the poor security situation, meant that Bremer's privatization plan was not implemented during his tenure, though his orders remain in place. In addition to approximately 200 other state owned businesses, privatization of the oil industry was scheduled to begin sometime in late 2005, though it is opposed by the Federation of Oil Unions in Iraq.\n\nOrder 39 laid out the framework for full privatization in Iraq, except for \"primary extraction and initial processing\" of oil, and permitted 100% foreign ownership of Iraqi assets.\nThe Iraq oil law is a proposed piece of legislation submitted to the Iraqi Council of Representatives in May 2007.\n\nThe Iraqi government has yet to reach an agreement on the law. In June 2008, the Iraqi Oil Ministry announced plans to go ahead with small one or two year no-bid contracts to Exxon Mobil, Shell, Total and BP — once partners in the Iraq Petroleum Company — along with Chevron and smaller firms to service Iraq’s largest fields. These plans were canceled in September because negotiations had stalled for so long that the work could not be completed within the time frame, according to Iraqi oil minister Hussain al-Shahristani. Several United States senators had also criticized the deal, arguing it was hindering efforts to pass the hydrocarbon law.\n\nBremer's transitional government featured figures close to the George W. Bush administration, such as grain-trading industry lobbyist Dan Amstutz, who was put in charge of agricultural policy in Iraq.\n\nCPA Order 39, entitled \"Foreign Investment\", provided that \"A foreign investor shall be entitled to make foreign investments in Iraq on terms no less favorable than those applicable to an Iraqi investor,\" and that \"[t]he amount of foreign participation in newly formed or existing business entities in Iraq shall not be limited...\" Additionally, the foreign investor \"shall be authorized to... transfer abroad without delay all funds associated with its foreign investment, including shares or profits and dividends...\"\n\nBy this order, critics assert that the CPA drastically altered Iraq's economy, allowing virtually unlimited and unrestricted foreign investment and placing no limitations on the expatriation of profit. However, these policies accord with current international standards on foreign direct investment which most of the developed world adheres to.\nThe order concluded, \"Where an international agreement to which Iraq is a party provides for more favorable terms with respect to foreign investors undertaking investment activities in Iraq, the more favorable terms under the international agreement shall apply.\" \n\nAccording to critics such as Naomi Klein, this order was designed to create as favorable an environment for foreign investors as possible, thereby allowing American and multinational corporations to dominate Iraq's economy.\nSignificant criticism has suggested these policies are fundamentally anti-democratic, that such rules can only be legitimate if passed by an elected Iraqi government free of foreign occupation.\nOthers argue that the rules merely bring Iraq's economic law into conformity with modern norms of international trade, and that the previous government and its laws were not democratically legitimate since Saddam Hussein's government was not elected.\n\nCPA Order 17 granted all foreign contractors operating in Iraq immunity from \"Iraqi legal process,\" effectively granting immunity from any kind of suit, civil or criminal, for actions the contractors engaged in within Iraq.\n\nCPA Order 12, amended by Order 54, suspended all tariffs, thus removing the advantage that domestic Iraqi producers had over foreign producers. However, a 5% \"reconstruction levy\" on all imported goods was later reimposed to help finance Iraqi-initiated reconstruction projects.\n\nCPA Order 49 provided a tax cut for corporations operating within Iraq. It reduced the rate from a maximum of 40% to a maximum of 15% on income. Corporations working with the CPA were exempted from owing any tax.\n\nOne of the key economic challenges was Iraq's immense foreign debt, estimated at $125 billion. Although some of this debt was derived from normal export contracts that Iraq had failed to pay for, some was a result of military and financial support during Iraq's war with Iran.\n\nThe Jubilee Iraq campaign argued that much of these debts were odious (illegitimate). However, as the concept of odious debt is not accepted, trying to deal with the debt on those terms would have embroiled Iraq in legal disputes for years. Iraq decided to deal with its debt more pragmatically and approached the Paris Club of official creditors.\n\nSince the peak of 1980, the nominal GDP of Iraq has steadily shrunk to merely $12.3 billion in 2000. However removal of sanctions, after the overthrow of Saddam, had immediate effect. The nominal GDP had reached $55.4 billion by 2007 due to increase in oil output as well as international prices. In 2006, the real GDP growth was estimated at almost 17 percent.\n\nIn a December 2006 Newsweek International article, a study by Global Insight in London was reported to show \"that Civil war or not, Iraq has an economy, and—mother of all surprises—it's doing remarkably well. Real estate is booming. Construction, retail and wholesale trade sectors are healthy, too, according to [the report]. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce reports 34,000 registered companies in Iraq, up from 8,000 three years ago. Sales of secondhand cars, televisions and mobile phones have all risen sharply. Estimates vary, but one from Global Insight puts GDP growth at 17 percent last year and projects 13 percent for 2006. The World Bank has it lower: at 4 percent this year. But, given all the attention paid to deteriorating security, the startling fact is that Iraq is growing at all.\"\n\nBetween and of Iraq’s declared oil production over the past four years could have been siphoned off through corruption or smuggling, according to a US Study from May 12, 2007.\nBecause of the economic potential of Iraq, a niche market for Iraqi Dinar currency has emerged. Speculators are making investments in the Iraqi Dinar in hopes of receiving a return once Iraq stabilizes as a country. Jim Cramer's October 20, 2009 endorsement of the Iraqi Dinar on CNBC has further piqued interest in the investment.\n\nCritics of the CPA argue that these policies were not only rather blatant attempts to shape Iraq's economy in the interests of American (and other) investors and against the interests of Iraqis themselves, but also that they were illegal under international law (specifically the Hague Resolutions and the Geneva Conventions) because an occupying power is prohibited from rewriting the laws of the occupied country.\n\n"}
{"id": "21163435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21163435", "title": "Eurostep", "text": "Eurostep\n\nEurostep (European Solidarity Towards Equal Participation of People) is a network of autonomous European non-governmental development organisations working towards peace, justice and equality in a world free of poverty. Its membership, rooted in their own societies, works together to influence Europe's role in the world, particularly in pursuing the eradication of injustice and poverty.\n\nIt advocates changes in Europe's development policies and practice based on the perspectives drawn from direct experiences of an active involvement of its members and their partners in development in over 100 countries across the world.\n\nMembers of the network include NGOs such as Alliance Sud (Switzerland), ACSUR Las Segovias (Spain), CFSI (France), Concern (Ireland), Deutsche Welthungerhilfe (Germany), FDSC (Romania), KEPA (Finland), Hivos (The Netherlands), Mani Tese (Italy), Marie Stopes International (United Kingdom), Mellemfolkeligt Samvirke (Denmark), Network of East West Women (Poland), OIKOS (Portugal), Oxfam Novib (the Netherlands), People in Need (Czech Republic), Sloga (Slovenia), SNV (the Netherlands), Terre des hommes (Germany) and 11.11.11 (Belgium). Eurostep is also a member of CONCORD, the European NGO Confederation for Relief and Development.\n\nWhile the Treaty of Lisbon is being ratified by the member states, Eurostep works a lot on the implications of the institutional reforms of the Treaty. The network advocates the reinforcement of the EU’s position as a global leader in development.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12850209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12850209", "title": "Federal Public Service Economy", "text": "Federal Public Service Economy\n\nThe FPS Economy, SMEs, Middle Classes, and Energy (, , ), more commonly known as the FPS Economy, is a Federal Public Service of Belgium. It was created by Royal Order on February 25, 2002, as part of the plans of the Verhofstadt I Government to modernise the federal administration. It is responsible for contributing to the development, competitiveness and sustainability of the goods and services market, ensuring the position of the Belgian economy at the international level, promoting trade by fair economic relations in a competitive market, collecting, processing and disseminating economic information.\n\nThe FPS Economy is currently organised into nine Directorates-General:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "484582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=484582", "title": "Friedrich Wilhelm Raiffeisen", "text": "Friedrich Wilhelm Raiffeisen\n\nFriedrich Wilhelm Raiffeisen (30 March 1818 – 11 March 1888) was a German mayor and cooperative pioneer. Several credit union systems and cooperative banks have been named after Raiffeisen, who pioneered rural credit unions.\n\nFriedrich Wilhelm Raiffeisen was born on 30 March 1818 at Hamm/Sieg (Westerwald). He was the seventh out of nine children. His father Gottfried Friedrich Raiffeisen was a farmer and also mayor of Hamm for a while. One can go back to his family’s origin until the 16th century in the Swabian-Franconian area. The family of his mother, Amalie Christiane Susanna Maria, born Lantzendörffer, came from the “Siegerland”. Leaving school at the age of 14 he received three years of education from a local pastor before he entered the military at the age of 17. His career in the military led him to Cologne, Coblenz and Sayn. An eye disease forced him to resign from the military service in 1843 and he went into public service. He was mayor of several towns: from 1845 he was mayor of Weyerbusch/Westerwald; from 1848 he was mayor of Flammersfeld/Westerwald; and finally he was mayor of Heddesdorf from 1852 until late 1865, when, at the age of 47, his worsening health cut his career short; he had caught typhus in 1863 during an epidemic during which his wife had died. Since his small pension was not sufficient to meet the living of Raiffeisen’s family he initially started a small cigar factory and later on a wine business. In 1867, he married the widow Maria Panseroth. She outlived him by 12 years and their marriage remained childless. He died on 11 March 1888 in Neuwied-Heddesdorf, shortly before his 70th birthday.\n\nRaiffeisen conceived of the idea of cooperative self-help during his tenure as the young mayor of Flammersfeld. He was inspired by observing the suffering of the farmers who were often in the grip of loansharks. He founded the first cooperative lending bank, in effect the first rural credit union in 1864.\n\nMotivated by the misery of the poor part of the population he founded during the starvation winter of 1846/47 the “Verein für Selbstbeschaffung von Brod und Früchten” (Association for Self-procurement of Bread and Fruits). He bought flour with the help of private donations. Bread was baked in a self-built bakery and distributed on credit to the poorest amongst the population. The bread society as well as the aid society founded in 1849 in Flammersfeld and the benevolent society created in 1854 in Heddesdorf were pre-cooperative societies based on the principle of benevolent assistance.\n\nIn order to secure the liquidity equalization between the small credit banks, in 1872 Raiffeisen created the first rural central bank at Neuwied, the “Rheinische Landwirtschaftliche Genossenschaftsbank” (Rhenish Agricultural Cooperative Bank). In 1881, Raiffeisen created a printing house in Neuwied which still exists today, carries his name and was merged in 1975 with the German cooperative publishing house “Deutscher Genossenschafts-Verlag”.\n\nRaiffeisen stated that there is a connection between poverty and dependency. In order to fight poverty one should fight dependency first. Based on this idea he came up with the three 'S' formula: self-help, self-governance and self-responsibility. Originally in German: \"Selbsthilfe\", \"Selbstverwaltung\" and \"Selbstverantwortung\". When put into practice the necessary independence from charity, politics and loansharks could be established.\n\nSeveral credit unions are named after Raiffeisen:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27666160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27666160", "title": "Front for the Liberation of Occupied South Yemen", "text": "Front for the Liberation of Occupied South Yemen\n\nThe Front for the Liberation of Occupied South Yemen (FLOSY) was an Arab nationalist military organization operating in the Federation of South Arabia (now Southern Yemen) in the 1960s. As the British tried to exit its Federation of South Arabia colony Abdullah al Asnag created FLOSY. FLOSY attempted to seize power when the British left from another military group operating in South Arabia, the Marxist National Liberation Front (NLF).\n\nAbdullah al Asnag was a labour leader in the Aden Trade Union Congress (ATUC), a union operating in and around the British protectorate: the port of Aden. In the late 1950s, Egyptian president Gamal Abdel Nasser's Pan-Arabism had spread to the region and threatened Britain's and the traditional Emirs of the region's control. In response the British were able to convince the feuding Emirs to merge into the Federation of South Arabia. The Aden Trade Union Congress had a large influence in the new Federation's assembly and to prevent it seizing control of the Federation in 1962 the Colony of Aden joined the Federation so that Aden's pro-British assembly members could counter the ATUC's influence. The day after Aden joined the Federation, Muhammad al-Badr of the Yemenese monarchy was overthrown and civil war ensued between forces backed by Egypt like the National Liberation Front (NLF) and monarchist forces backed by the British. This conflict spread throughout the region becoming the Aden Emergency and officially began on 10 December 1963, when a state of emergency was declared in the State of Aden. The NLF campaign for power spread to the \"Federation of South Arabia\" in 1964. In 1964 a new government headed by the Labour Party won the United Kingdom general election. They attempted to grant independence to the \"Federation of South Arabia\" by giving Abdullah al Asnag control of the country. This proposal was vetoed by the American President Johnson who didn't want Britain to withdraw while the Americans were escalating the Vietnam War.\n\nIn 1965 the British suspended the \"Federation of South Arabian\" government and imposed direct colonial rule. Realizing that the British weren't going to give him control Asnag fled the country and joined the NLF. However elements of the NLF become more radical Marxist and they split from the Egyptians. Asnag formed his own military organization, FLOSY, in order to counter the NLF. The NLF quickly denounced Asnag and FLOSY as Imperialist forces under control of Nassar and in addition to attacking the British also engaged FLOSY in combat. By February 1967 the British could no longer control or protect its bases in Aden and announced it was leaving the country, against American wishes. Nasser threw its weight behind FLOSY and arrested the head of the NLF who was living at the time in Egypt. Officially FLOSY and the NLF refused to talk to the leaving British forces as they didn't want to be seen as agents of British Imperialism. When the last governor of Aden, Sir Humphrey Trevelyan, left the country with no immediately apparent successor. As a point of respect, he had the government house repainted for whoever emerged victorious. However unofficial secret talks were held between the British and the NLF who conspired to defeat FLOSY so that the Nassar-supported FLOSY would be defeated.\n\nOn November 30, 1967 \"Federation of South Arabia\" ceased to exist with the creation of the People's Republic of South Yemen. In 1967, Nasser was defeated in the Six-Day War and was forced to pull troops out of Yemen. This left FLOSY without any military support from its Egyptian allies. With the loss of Egyptian support, the NLF allied with Yemen's Federal army, allowing them to defeat FLOSY. On November 7, 1967 FLOSY took heavy losses attacking a federal army base in conjunction with the NLF. With that defeat, the military forces of FLOSY ceased to exist although some cadres and leaders remained outside the country.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2848225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2848225", "title": "G. P. Taylor", "text": "G. P. Taylor\n\nGraham Peter Taylor (born 1958 in Scarborough, North Yorkshire, England), pen-name G. P. Taylor, is the author of the best-selling novels \"Shadowmancer\", which has been translated into 48 languages, \"Wormwood\" and \"Tersias\". Before taking up writing full-time, he was a police officer, motorcyclist and former rock band roadie turned Anglican vicar in the village of Cloughton, North Yorkshire. Taylor has three children and currently resides in Whitby, North Yorkshire.\n\nTaylor grew up in Yorkshire, but moved to London in the 1970s where he worked in the music industry with such bands as The Stranglers, Sex Pistols, Elvis Costello and Adam and the Ants. He became involved in the occult, and lived a life that was, in his own words \"into all sorts of weird and wonderful things and wasn’t leading a godly life\". He then turned to Christianity, and he later became a vicar with the Church of England.\n\nTaylor completed the manuscript of his first book, \"Shadowmancer\", which he self-published. Following its launch at Taylor's local bookshop, \"The Whitby Bookshop\", the title garnered a publishing deal with Faber and Faber in the UK and G. P. Putnam's Sons in the United States for a further six novels, following which he resigned his position as parish priest.\n\nHis second novel, \"Wormwood\", was nominated for a Quill Award. His third novel, \"Tersias\" was published in the UK in 2005. In August 2006, Faber published a follow up to \"Shadowmancer\" entitled \"The Curse of Salamander Street\".\n\nIn October 2006, Taylor released \"The Tizzle Sisters & Erik\" through Markosia. A mixture of prose and graphic novel that he deemed an 'illustronovella', Taylor was joined on the book by collaborators Tony Lee, Dan Boultwood, and \"Harry Potter\" artist Cliff Wright.\n\nHe also contributed text to a book on the Yorkshire coast by photographer Mark Denton.\n\nTaylor announced his retirement from writing in October 2009 in order to care for his daughter, who suffers from Crohn's disease, although he went on to publish three more books in the years that followed.\n\nIn 2008 Taylor signed a deal with film production company Entertainment Motion Pictures (E-Motion) to make a film based on the series. In March 2012 it was announced that the film would star Michael Sheen, Lena Headey, Sam Neill, Ioan Gruffudd, and Aneurin Barnard as Mariah Mundi. The title was changed to and the film opened in the United States in January 2014 to generally negative reviews.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38703566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38703566", "title": "Global Organization of Parliamentarians Against Corruption", "text": "Global Organization of Parliamentarians Against Corruption\n\nThe Global Organization of Parliamentarians Against Corruption (GOPAC; Arabic: المنظمة العالمية للبرلمانيين ضد الفساد; French: \"Organisation mondiale des parlementaires contre la corruption\"; Spanish: \"Organización Mundialde Parlamentarios Contra la Corrupción\") is an International nongovernmental organization made up of parliamentarians from across the world, working together to combat corruption, strengthen good government, and uphold the rule of law. Based in Ottawa, Ontario, Canada, GOPAC has fifty-two national chapters in five continental associations. GOPAC supports its members through original research, global anti‑corruption capacity building, and international peer support.\n\nGOPAC seeks to achieve ethical and accountable governance throughout the world, through effective anti-corruption mechanisms and co-operation between parliamentarians, government leaders, and civil society.\n\nGOPAC was founded in October 2002 as a result of a Global Conference in Ottawa, Ontario, Canada which brought together approximately 170 parliamentarians and 400 observers who were part of the international leadership in the fight against political corruption and for good governance.\n\nAs it has grown, GOPAC has formed a web of partnerships with other international institutions, including the United Nations Convention against Corruption, the Inter-Parliamentary Union, the World Bank, and Transparency International.\n\nGOPAC works internationally, and is present on every populated continent of the world. It operates in four official languages: Arabic; English; French; and Spanish.\n\nIndividual membership in GOPAC is open to current and former democratically-elected legislators.\n\nThere are also National Chapters in fifty-two countries, grouped into six continental regions: Africa; Latin America; North America; Oceania; South Asia; and Southeast Asia.\n\nIndividual legislators may be members of GOPAC even if there is no national chapter in their countries. Similarly, national chapters can be members of GOPAC even if their continent has not formed a continental association.\n\nGOPAC has five thematic Global Task Forces (GTFs): Anti-Money Laundering; Parliamentary Ethics and Conduct; Parliamentary Oversight; Participation of Society, and the United Nations Convention Against Corruption; and its Women in Parliament Network.\n\nEvery two years, GOPAC convenes a Global Conference to act as an international focus for parliamentarians from across the world to set the international agenda, and to collaborate in fighting political corruption. The 2013 Global Conference was held in Manila, Philippines.\n\n"}
{"id": "10882492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10882492", "title": "Haig v. Agee", "text": "Haig v. Agee\n\nHaig v. Agee, 453 U.S. 280 (1981), was a United States Supreme Court case that upheld the right of the executive branch to revoke a citizen's passport for reasons of national security and the foreign policy interests of the U.S. under the Passport Act of 1926.\n\nThe case involved Congressional delegation of authority over control of passports and the right to international travel. Philip Agee was an ex-Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) officer living overseas who in 1974 declared a \"campaign to fight the U.S. CIA wherever it is operating\" and revealed the identities of several CIA officers resulting in violence against them. The Secretary of State revoked Agee's passport in 1979. Agee sued, alleging the secretary had no such authority, had denied him procedural due process rights, his substantive due process \"liberty\" right to travel under the Fifth Amendment, and had violated his First Amendment right to criticize government policies. \n\nThe district court found the Secretary lacked the power to revoke the passport and the court of appeals affirmed that decision. The Supreme Court reversed the lower court, holding that the broad discretion accorded the executive branch in matters of national security and foreign policy requires that the (currently codified at et seq.) should be interpreted as granting the power to revoke a passport when necessary for national security.\n\nPhilip Agee, an American citizen, was employed by the Central Intelligence Agency from 1957 to 1968, holding key positions in the division of the Agency responsible for covert intelligence gathering in foreign countries. In 1974, Agee announced in London that he was launching a \"campaign to fight the United States CIA wherever it is operating\" and intended \"to expose CIA officers and agents and to take the measures necessary to drive them out of the countries where they are operating.\" Agee and his collaborators repeatedly and publicly identified individuals and organizations in foreign countries as undercover CIA agents, employees, or sources. They divulged classified information, violated Agee's express contract not to make any public statements about Agency matters without prior clearance by the Agency, and prejudiced the ability of the United States to obtain intelligence. They were followed by episodes of violence against the persons and organizations identified.\n\nIn December 1979, Secretary of State Cyrus Vance revoked Agee's passport and delivered an explanatory notice to Agee in West Germany, where he was living. It advised Agee that his activities abroad were causing or were likely to cause serious damage to the national security or the foreign policy of the United States and that he had a right to an administrative hearing. It offered to hold such a hearing in West Germany on 5 days' notice.\n\nAgee at once filed suit against the Secretary. He alleged that the regulation invoked by the Secretary, 22 CFR 51.70 (b)(4)(1980), was not authorized by Congress and was invalid; that the regulation was impermissibly overbroad; that revocation prior to a hearing violated his Fifth Amendment right to procedural due process; and that the revocation violated a Fifth Amendment liberty interest in a right to travel and a First Amendment right to criticize Government policies. He sought declaratory and injunctive relief, and he moved for summary judgment on the question of the authority to promulgate the regulation and on the constitutional claims. For purposes of that motion, Agee conceded that his activities were causing or were likely to cause serious damage to the national security or foreign policy of the United States. The District Court held that the regulation exceeded the statutory powers of the Secretary under the Passport Act of 1926, 22 U.S.C. 211a, granted summary judgment for Agee, and ordered the Secretary to restore his passport.\n\nA divided panel of the Court of Appeals affirmed the district court. It held that the Secretary was required to show that Congress had authorized the regulation either by an express delegation or by implied approval of a \"substantial and consistent\" administrative practice, citing \"Zemel v. Rusk\" (1965). The court found no express statutory authority for the revocation. The Court of Appeals took note of the Secretary's reliance on \"a series of statutes, regulations, proclamations, orders and advisory opinions dating back to 1856,\" but declined to consider those authorities, reasoning that \"the criterion for establishing congressional assent by inaction is the actual imposition of sanctions and not the mere assertion of power.\" The Court of Appeals held that it was not sufficient that \"Agee's conduct may be considered by some to border on treason,\" since \"[w]e are bound by the law as we find it.\" The court also regarded it as material that most of the Secretary's authorities dealt with powers of the Executive Branch \"during time of war or national emergency\" or with respect to persons \"engaged in criminal conduct.\" \n\nThe Court granted certiorari in the case, then called \"Muskie v. Agee\", and stayed the judgment of the Court of Appeals until its disposition of the case.\n\nThe Court began by examining the language of the statute, concluding that although the Passport Act did not in so many words confer upon the Secretary a power to revoke or to deny passport applications, it was beyond dispute that the Secretary had the power to deny a passport for reasons not specified in the statutes. A consistent administrative construction of the 1926 Act must be followed by the courts \"`unless there are compelling indications that it is wrong.'\" Matters intimately related to foreign policy and national security were rarely proper subjects for judicial intervention particularly in light of the \"broad rule-making authority granted in the 1926 Act,\" citing \"Zemel\".\n\nIt then surveyed passport law and administrative policy and practice from 1835 to 1966, concluding that the history of passport controls since the earliest days of the Republic showed congressional recognition of Executive authority to withhold passports on the basis of substantial reasons of national security and foreign policy. It compared Congressional action and inaction concerning the broad rule-making authority granted in earlier Acts, concluding that there was \"weighty\" evidence of congressional approval of the Secretary's interpretation that it had been delegated the power to restrict passports on the basis of national security. The Court rejected Agee's argument that the only way the Executive could establish implicit congressional approval is by proof of longstanding and consistent enforcement of the claimed power. It distinguished \"Kent\" noting that although there had been few situations involving substantial likelihood of serious damage to the national security or foreign policy of the United States as a result of a passport holder's activities abroad, that in the cases which had arisen, the Secretary had consistently exercised his power to withhold passports. And it rejected Agee's contention that the statements of Executive policy are entitled to diminished weight because many of them concern the powers of the Executive in wartime.\n\nIt held incorrect the notion that \"illegal conduct\" and problems of allegiance were, \"so far as relevant here, ... the only [grounds] which it could fairly be argued were adopted by Congress in light of prior administrative practice,\" \"Kent\" at 127-128, was not correct because \"Kent\" also recognized that the legitimacy of the objective of safeguarding our national security was \"obvious and unarguable.\" id at 509 and that the protection accorded beliefs standing alone is very different from the protection accorded conduct. Thus, it held that the policy announced in the challenged regulations is \"sufficiently substantial and consistent\" to compel the conclusion that Congress has approved it.\n\nRegarding Agee's Constitutional attacks, the Court held that they, too, were without merit. The revocation of his passport did not impermissibly burdens his freedom to travel because the freedom to travel abroad with a \"letter of introduction\" in the form of a passport issued by the sovereign is subordinate to national security and foreign policy considerations; as such, it is subject to reasonable governmental regulation. The action was not intended to penalize his exercise of free speech and deter his criticism of Government policies and practices because assuming, arguendo, that First Amendment protections reach beyond our national boundaries, revocation of Agee's passport rested in part on the content of his speech. To the extent the revocation of his passport operates to inhibit Agee, \"it is an inhibition of action,\" rather than of speech. And that failure to accord him a prerevocation hearing did not violate his Fifth Amendment right to procedural due process because when there is a substantial likelihood of \"serious damage\" to national security or foreign policy as a result of a passport holder's activities in foreign countries, the Government may take action to ensure that the holder may not exploit the sponsorship of his travels by the United States.\n\nThe Court found that the right to hold a passport is subordinate to national security and foreign policy considerations, and is subject to reasonable governmental regulation. Denial of Agee's passport was not protected under the First Amendment because unlike \"Kent v. Dulles\" and \"Aptheker v. Secretary of State\" involving denials of passports solely on the basis of political beliefs entitled to First Amendment protection, Agee's actions amounted to more than speech and that the national security interests here, as in \"Zemel v. Rusk\", were sufficiently important to justify revocation. Finally, the Court held that the Government was not required to hold a pre-revocation hearing, since where there was a substantial likelihood of \"serious damage\" to national security or foreign policy as the result of a passport holder's activities abroad, the Government may take action to ensure that the holder may not exploit the United States' sponsorship of his travels. Further, a statement of reasons and an opportunity for a prompt post-revocation hearing were sufficient to satisfy the Constitution's due process guarantees.\n\nBlackmun concurred, stating simply that he believed this case had cut back somewhat on the standards articulated in \"Zemel v. Rusk\" and \"Kent v. Dulles\" \"sub silencio\" and that it would have been better if the Court had forthrightly construed the law such that evidence of a longstanding Executive policy or construction in this area be probative of the issue of congressional authorization.\n\nJustice Brennan wrote a dissent that Justice Marshall joined. He found that the decision strayed from the precedent set by \"Zemel\" and \"Kent\" because neither \"Zemel\" nor \"Kent\" held that a longstanding Executive policy or construction was sufficient proof that Congress had implicitly authorized the Secretary's action. Those cases held that an administrative practice must be demonstrated; \"Kent\" unequivocally stated that mere construction by the Executive - no matter how longstanding and consistent - was not sufficient. Only when Congress had maintained its silence in the face of a consistent and substantial pattern of actual passport denials or revocations - where the parties will presumably object loudly, perhaps through legal action, to the Secretary's exercise of discretion - can this Court be sure that Congress is aware of the Secretary's actions and has implicitly approved that exercise of discretion. \n\nThe decision also relied on the very Executive construction and policy deemed irrelevant in \"Kent\". The Court's reliance on material expressly abjured in \"Kent\" was understandable only when considering the paucity of recorded administrative practice - the only evidence upon which \"Kent\" and \"Zemel\" permit reliance - with respect to passport denials or revocations based on foreign policy or national security considerations relating to an individual. Only three occasions were cited over the past 33 years when the Secretary revoked passports for such reasons.\n\nFinally, just as the Constitution protected both popular and unpopular speech, it likewise protected both popular and unpopular travelers. The decision applied not only to Philip Agee, whose activities could be perceived as harming the national security, but also to other citizens who may merely disagree with Government foreign policy and express their views. The Justices feared that the majority decision handed too much lawmaking function over the government when the Constitution allocated it to the Congress. The point that Kent and Zemel made, and the majority opinion should make, is that the Executive's authority to revoke passports touched an area fraught with important constitutional rights, and that the Court should therefore \"construe narrowly all delegated powers that curtail or dilute them.\" \"Kent v. Dulles\" at 129 The presumption should be that Congress must expressly delegate authority to the Secretary to deny or revoke passports for foreign policy or national security reasons before he may exercise such authority and to overcome the presumption against an implied delegation, the Government must show \"an administrative practice sufficiently substantial and consistent.\" \"Zemel v. Rusk\", at 12.\n\n"}
{"id": "8847116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8847116", "title": "Implementing Recommendations of the 9/11 Commission Act of 2007", "text": "Implementing Recommendations of the 9/11 Commission Act of 2007\n\nThe Implementing Recommendations of the 9/11 Commission Act of 2007 (), is an Act of Congress. The Act implements some of the recommendations of the 9/11 Commission including mandating 100% inspection of all air and sea cargo entering the United States, and a new method of redistributing anti-terrorism funding.\n\nThe bill also authorized the creation of Fusion Centers.\n\nThe bill passed the House on January 9, 2007 by a vote of 299-128-8. It later passed the Senate with an amendment by unanimous consent. The two chambers of Congress went to conference, and a conference report in which the bill was amended and renamed the Improving America's Security Act of 2007 passed the Senate 85-8-7 on July 26, 2007 and the House 371-40-22 the following day. It was signed into law by President George W. Bush on August 3, 2007. It became Public Law 110-53.\n\nThe private sector preparedness requirements in the bill were based on the work commissioned by the Sloan Foundation to draft a framework for voluntary preparedness.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11087129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11087129", "title": "Injury prevention", "text": "Injury prevention\n\nInjury prevention is an effort to prevent or reduce the severity of bodily injuries caused by external mechanisms, such as accidents, before they occur. Injury prevention is a component of safety and public health, and its goal is to improve the health of the population by preventing injuries and hence improving quality of life. Among laypersons, the term \"accidental injury\" is often used. However, \"accidental\" implies the causes of injuries are random in nature. Researchers use the term \"unintentional injury\" to refer to injuries that are nonvolitional but preventable. Within the field of public health, efforts are also made to prevent or reduce \"intentional injury.\" Data from the U.S. Centers for Disease Control, for example, show unintentional injuries are the leading cause of death from early childhood until middle adulthood. During these years, unintentional injuries account for more deaths than the next nine leading causes of death combined.\n\nInjury prevention strategies cover a variety of approaches, many of which are classified as falling under the “3 E’s” of injury prevention: education, engineering modifications, and enforcement/enactment. Some organizations, such as Safe Kids Worldwide, have expanded the list to six E’s adding: evaluation, economic incentives and empowerment.\n\nResearching is challenging, because the usual outcome of interest is deaths or injuries prevented, and it is nearly impossible to measure how many people \"did not\" get hurt who otherwise would have. Education efforts can be measured by changes in knowledge, attitudes, beliefs and behaviors, before and after the intervention, however tying these changes back into reductions in morbidity and mortality is often problematic.\n\nExamining trends in morbidity and mortality in the population is usually not difficult and may provide some indication of the effectiveness of injury prevention interventions. However, this approach suffers from the potential of ecological fallacy, where the data shows an association between an intervention and a change in the outcome, but there is actually no causal relationship.\n\nTraffic safety and automobile safety are a major component of injury prevention because it is the leading cause of death for children and young adults into their mid 30s. Injury prevention efforts began in the early 1960s when activist Ralph Nader, exposed the automobiles as being more dangerous than necessary with his book Unsafe at Any Speed. This led to engineering changes in the way cars are designed to allow for more crush space between the vehicle and the occupant. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) also contributes much to automobile safety. The CDC Injury Prevention Champion, David Sleet, illustrated the importance of lowering the legal blood alcohol content limit to 0.08 percent for drivers; requiring disposable lighters to be child resistant; and using evidence to demonstrate the dangers of airbags to young children riding in the front seat of vehicles.\n\nEngineering: vehicle crash worthiness, seat belts, airbags, locking seat belts for child seats.\n\nEducation: promote seat belt use, discourage impaired driving, promote child safety seats.\n\nEnforcement and enactment: passage and enforcement of primary seat belt laws, speed limits, impaired driving enforcement.\n\nPedestrian safety is the focus of both epidemiological and psychological injury prevention research. Epidemiological studies typically focus on causes external to the individual such as traffic density, access to safe walking areas, socioeconomic status, injury rates, legislation for safety (e.g., traffic fines), or even the shape of vehicles which affects the severity of injuries resulting from a collision. Epidemiological data show children aged 1–4 are at greatest risk for injury in driveway and sidewalks. Children aged 5–14 are at greatest risk while attempting to cross streets.\n\nThe body of psychological research on pedestrian safety is currently much smaller than that in the epidemiological field, but is rapidly growing. Psychological pedestrian safety studies extend as far back as the mid-1980s when researchers began examining behavioral variables in children. Behavioral variables of interest include selection of crossing gaps in traffic, attention to traffic, the number of near hits or actual hits, or the routes children chose when crossing multiple streets such as while walking to school. Behavioral studies often collect such variables which imply risk of injury; e.g., children engaging in risky behaviors may be assumed to be at greater risk if actually crossing a street alone. The most common technique used in behavioral pedestrian research is the pretend road, in which a child stands some distance from the curb and watches traffic on the real road. The child then walks to the edge of the street when a crossing opportunity is chosen. Research is gradually shifting to more ecologically valid virtual reality techniques. Leading scientists in psychological pedestrian safety research are Dr. Benjamin Barton, Dr. David Schwebel and Dr. James Thomson.\n\nThe following is an abbreviated topic list of some common focus areas of injury prevention efforts:\n\n\nResearch journals covering injury prevention include:\n\n"}
{"id": "13998373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13998373", "title": "Jim Green (activist)", "text": "Jim Green (activist)\n\nJames Green is the national anti-nuclear campaigner with Friends of the Earth Australia and Australian coordinator of the Beyond Nuclear Initiative. Green is a regular media commentator on nuclear waste issues. He has an honours degree in public health from the University of Wollongong and was awarded a PhD in science and technology studies for his analysis of the Lucas Heights research reactor debates.\n\nJim Green and Peter Karamoskos (a nuclear radiologist) say there is growing scientific confidence in the linear no-threshold model for ionising radiation, which is supported by the 2006 report of the Committee on the Biological Effects of Ionising Radiation (BEIR) of the US National Academy of Sciences. The BEIR report comprehensively reviewed available data and concluded that:\n\nThe balance of evidence from epidemiologic, animal and mechanistic studies tend to favour a simple proportionate relationship at low doses between radiation dose and cancer risk... The risk of cancer proceeds in a linear fashion at lower doses without a threshold and… the smallest dose has the potential to cause a small increase in risk to humans.\n\nAccording to Green and Karamoskos, the alternative view, that low-level radiation is harmless, is limited to a small number of scientists \"whose voice is greatly amplified by the nuclear industry\". In Australia, for example, \"uranium mining and exploration companies such as Toro Energy, Uranium One and Heathgate Resources have sponsored speaking tours by scientists who claim that low level radiation exposure is not only harmless but actually good for you\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40935265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40935265", "title": "Lake Hill Administrative Site Affordable Housing Act", "text": "Lake Hill Administrative Site Affordable Housing Act\n\nThe Lake Hill Administrative Site Affordable Housing Act (; ) is a U.S. public law that requires the Secretary of Agriculture to sell 40 acres of Forest Service land near Frisco, Colorado. Summit County, Colorado would use the land to build affordable housing. The law was introduced into the United States House of Representatives during the 113th United States Congress.\n\n\"This summary is based largely on the summary provided by the Congressional Research Service, a public domain source.\"\n\nThe Lake Hill Administrative Site Affordable Housing Act would direct the Secretary of Agriculture (USDA), upon receiving an offer from Summit County, Colorado, in which the county agrees to be responsible for the costs specified below, to convey to the county all interest of the United States in the approximately 40 acres of National Forest System land in the county identified as the Lake Hill Administrative Site. The bill would make Summit County responsible for the processing and transaction costs related to the direct sale of the Administrative Site. The bill would require the proceeds received from such conveyance to be made available for capital improvement and maintenance of Forest Service facilities in Region 2 of the Forest Service.\n\n\"This summary is based largely on the summary provided by the Congressional Budget Office, as ordered reported by the House Committee on Natural Resources on July 24, 2013. This is a public domain source.\"\n\nH.R. 2337 would require the Secretary of Agriculture to sell 40 acres of Forest Service land near Frisco, Colorado. Based on information provided by the agency, the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) estimated that implementing the legislation would have a negligible impact on the federal budget. Enacting the bill would increase offsetting receipts and associated direct spending; therefore, pay-as-you-go procedures apply. However, the CBO estimated that those changes would have no significant net impact on future budget deficits. Enacting H.R. 2337 would not affect revenues.\n\nThe bill would require the Secretary to sell the affected lands to Summit County, Colorado, for fair market value. Based on information provided by the Forest Service, CBO estimated that proceeds from the sale of those lands would increase offsetting receipts by about $5 million. Under the bill, the agency would be authorized to retain and spend those proceeds, without further appropriation, for capital improvement and maintenance of Forest Service facilities. The CBO expected that the agency would complete the sale and spend the proceeds within five years, and we estimate that enacting the bill would have no net impact on the federal budget over that period. In addition, the bill would require the county to pay for any administrative costs associated with the sale.\n\nH.R. 2337 contains no intergovernmental or private-sector mandates as defined in the Unfunded Mandates Reform Act.\n\nThe Lake Hill Administrative Site Affordable Housing Act was introduced into the House on June 12, 2013 by Rep. Jared Polis (D, CO-2). It was referred to the United States House Committee on Natural Resources and the United States House Natural Resources Subcommittee on Public Lands and Environmental Regulation. The bill was reported by the Committee alongside House Report 113-196 on H.R. 2337 on September 10, 2013. On October 25, 2013, House Majority Leader Eric Cantor announced that H.R. 2337 would be on the House schedule for the week of October 28, 2013. The bill was considered under the suspension of the rules. On October 29, 2013, the House voted to passed the bill by a voice vote. The United States Senate voted to pass the bill by unanimous consent on July 9, 2014. On July 25, 2014, President Barack Obama signed the bill into law.\n\nArguing in favor of the bill, Rep. Polis said that \"this bill is an important step towards helping the community use the Lake Hill property in a way that improves the quality of life in Summit County. H.R. 2337 is a win-win because it will add affordable housing opportunities while providing funding for U.S. Forest Service to improve administrative facilities.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "916006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=916006", "title": "List of places named for Sam Houston", "text": "List of places named for Sam Houston\n\nSam Houston was an important figure in Texas history.\n\nNamed in his honor are:\n\n"}
{"id": "6975429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6975429", "title": "List of usurpers", "text": "List of usurpers\n\nThe following is a list of usurpers – illegitimate or controversial claimants to the throne in a monarchy. The word usurper is a derogatory term, and as such not easily definable, as the person seizing power normally will try to legitimise his position, while denigrating that of his predecessor.\n\nMarina Mniszech and False Dmitry\n"}
{"id": "3300315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3300315", "title": "MV Havengore", "text": "MV Havengore\n\nHavengore is a former hydrographic survey launch, originally launched in 1956 for service with the Port of London Authority (PLA). After her withdrawal from service and sale in 1995, she was re-registered as a passenger vessel for up to 40 passengers. Based on the River Thames, \"Havengore\" has also served as a ceremonial vessel. She is best known for her carrying the body of Sir Winston Churchill as part of his State Funeral.\n\n\"Havengore\" was named after Havengore Island, a low-lying marshy island off the coast of Essex. The derivation of the word Havengore is Old English, 'haefen' meaning an anchorage and 'gor' meaning muddy. The adjoining Havengore Creek marked the northern end of the PLA's jurisdiction prior to 1964, when it was extended to include the whole of the Thames Estuary. By convention many PLA vessels are named after features of the River Thames.\n\n\"Havengore\" was commissioned by the Port of London Authority in 1954 to replace its former survey vessel the \"Shorne Meade\". Built by Tough Brothers of Teddington, she is of double diagonal construction in teak over a framework of English oak. The National Physical Laboratory helped design and test her twin counter-rotating propellers and underwater fittings, while Decca Radar oversaw trials of her survey systems. She was launched in 1956.\n\n\"Havengore\" entered service with the Port of London Authority on 4 February 1956. As the PLA's hydrographic survey vessel, she was responsible for recording changes to the bed of the River Thames and Thames Estuary. She was the first survey vessel in the UK to install a computer to record survey data, using punched tape; replacement Unix workstations were installed in 1989. After becoming the longest-serving PLA vessel, she performed her last hydrographic work in 1995, when she was withdrawn from service and sold.\n\nAfter changing hands in 1995, \"Havengore\" was restored and refitted at the Chatham Historic Dockyard in Kent. Subsequently, she was used by the Havengore Education and Leadership Mission (HELM) to provide excursions for underprivileged children on the River Medway. Changing hands again in 2006, three further phases of restoration - including the reuse of parts from a 0-4-0 diesel locomotive - have ensured that she remains fully operational in compliance with MCA regulations, while respecting her historic fabric.\n\n\"Havengore\" participated in the river pageant held to mark the 200th anniversary of the Battle of Trafalgar and has taken part in services marking Armistice Day and Armed Forces Day. Moored at St Katharine Docks, \"Havengore\" currently undertakes a mixed programme of public service and charitable events and is also available for corporate hospitality purposes.\n\nOn 30 January 1965 \"Havengore\" carried Sir Winston Churchill on his last journey by water along the River Thames from Tower Pier to Festival Pier during his State Funeral. On her journey along the Thames, \"Havengore\" was saluted by a flypast of 16 English Electric Lightning fighter jets, and dock cranes were bowed as she passed. This event was broadcast live to an estimated worldwide audience of 350 million viewers, one in ten of the then world population. Archive newsreel footage is available via the BBC website. \"Havengore\" carries a commemorative plaque presented by the International Churchill Society inscribed with the words of the BBC broadcaster that day, Richard Dimbleby CBE: 'And so \"Havengore\" sails into history ... not even the \"Golden Hind\" had borne so great a man'.\n\n\"Havengore\" participated in the river pageant held to mark the Queen's Silver Jubilee in 1977.\n\nOn 17 May 2012 it was announced that the \"Havengore\" had been selected to carry members of the Royal Family as part of Queen Elizabeth II's Diamond Jubilee celebrations in a flotilla of over a thousands vessels during the Thames pageant on 3 June 2012. Members of the Royal Family who embarked on the \"Havengore\" for Thames pageant were The Duke of York, Princess Beatrice, Princess Eugenie, The Earl and Countess of Wessex, The Duke and Duchess of Gloucester, and Prince and Princess Michael of Kent.\n\nThe craft also participated in observances on the Thames marking Queen Elizabeth's surpassing of Queen Victoria as the longest-reigning British monarch on 9 September 2015.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2717551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2717551", "title": "Maria Barbara Carillo", "text": "Maria Barbara Carillo\n\nMaria Barbara Carillo (Jaén, 1625 – Madrid, 18 May 1721) was burned at the stake for heresy during the Spanish Inquisition. She was executed at the age of 95 or 96 and is the oldest person known to have been executed at the instigation of the Inquisition.\n\nCarillo was sentenced to death for heresy for returning to her faith in Judaism. She belonged to a large group of people that were Jews baptized by compulsion, who were accused of secretly practicing the Jewish religion. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "35544256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35544256", "title": "Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation (Myanmar)", "text": "Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation (Myanmar)\n\nThe Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation (MOLI) is a ministry in the Burmese government responsible for agriculture and irrigation. Until 8 August 1996, it was named the Ministry of Agriculture.In 2016, President Htin Kyaw composed it with the Ministry of Livestock, Fisheries and Rural Development as Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Irrigation.\n\n"}
{"id": "58725534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58725534", "title": "Music Modernization Act", "text": "Music Modernization Act\n\nThe Orrin G. Hatch–Bob Goodlatte Music Modernization Act, or Music Modernization Act or MMA (, ) is United States legislation signed into law on October 11, 2018 aimed to modernize copyright-related issues for music and audio recordings due to new forms of technology like digital streaming. It is a consolidation of three separate bills introduced during the 115th United States Congress.\n\nThe MMA is a combination of three bills previously introduced in Congress.\n\nThe singular Act was first introduced into the House by Rep. Bob Goodlatte on December 17, 2017 (), and later to the Senate by Sen. Orrin Hatch on January 24, 2018. Both versions of the bill looked to improve how music licensing and royalties would be paid in consideration of streaming media services. The bill established three major provisions:\nIn addition, elements of the \"Fair Play Fair Pay Act\", , introduced on March 30, 2017 by Rep. Jerrold Nadler were added to this Title. The Fair Play Fair Pay Act had been designed to harmonize how royalties were paid by terrestrial radio broadcasters and Internet streaming services. Under previous law, songwriters and composers would receive mechanical license royalties for radio play, but the performing artists would not be paid as the use of songs on the radio was considered \"promotional\". The Fair Play Fair Pay Act had included language that would allow recording artists to receive performance royalties. However, these parts of the Fair Play Fair Pay Act were not included in the combined Music Modernization Act.\n\nThe Compensating Legacy Artists for their Songs, Service, and Important Contributions to Society (CLASSICS) Act was originally introduced in the House as in July 2017. In US Copyright Law, sound recordings made prior to February 15, 1972 were not covered under federal copyright law, leaving them up to the individual states to pass laws for recording protection. This had created a complex series of laws that made it difficult for copyright enforcement and royalty payments. The CLASSICS Act established that sound recording before 1972 are covered by copyright until February 15, 2067, with additional language to grandfather in older songs into the public domain at an earlier time. Recordings prior to 1923 will enter the public domain three years from passage (January 1, 2022, as all U.S. copyright terms end on December 31), and with recordings between 1923 and 1956 being phased into the public domain over the next few decades.\n\nThe Allocation for Music Producers (AMP) Act bill was introduced by Rep. Joseph Crowley on February 6, 2017 as . The bill designates that SoundExchange, the non-profit organization established by Congress to distribute royalties on sound recordings, to also distribute part of those royalties to \"a producer, mixer, or sound engineer who was part of the creative process that created [the] sound recording\".\n\nThe three bills were consolidated in the House by Goodlatte on April 10, 2018 as , which passed the bill on April 25, 2018. Hatch introduced the combined bill in the Senate as on May 10, 2018. During the Senate's review, the body voted to move the bill to an existing, unrelated bill, , which the House agreed to. The Senate voted in favor of the bill on September 19, 2018, and was subsequently signed into law by President Donald Trump on October 11, 2018. Among those in attendance at the signing were musicians Kid Rock, Mike Love, Sam Moore, John Rich, Craig Morgan and Jeff Baxter, and the Christian group MercyMe. While Kanye West had been reported to be attended the signing, he was not present though had a luncheon with President Trump later that day.\n\nThe bills in both House and Senate had bipartisan support, as well as strong support from numerous music industry groups representing musicians, producers, and publishers, as well as from digital streaming media services and related industry groups. Digital streaming platforms Apple Music and Spotify had both come under prior separate legal actions for unpaid royalties for streaming music in part due to a lack of a central database for which to track down songwriters and composers, and had even set aside part of their working capital to deal with legal issues in order to offer full music catalogs, in contrast to Amazon.com's music selection.\n\nThere was a last-minute conflict in the Senate, brought up by SESAC and SiriusXM, relating to royalties for pre-1972 sound recordings, but a deal was made between SiriusXM, the National Music Publishers Association and the Recording Industry Association of America which allowed the bill to be passed by the Senate by a unanimous vote, allowing the bill to quickly pass through Congress via \"hotlining\" before the end of the session.\n"}
{"id": "44472278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44472278", "title": "National Health Insurance (British Virgin Islands)", "text": "National Health Insurance (British Virgin Islands)\n\nThe National Health Insurance scheme (or NHI) is a form of national health insurance established by the Government of the British Virgin Islands through the Ministry of Health, with a goal to provide access to and financial coverage for health care services to British Virgin Islands residents. It came into effect on 1 January 2016.\n\nThe scheme is based on two fundamental principles:\n\nThe scheme is administered by the Social Security Board of the British Virgin Islands. The Deputy Director with responsibility for the scheme is Mr Roy Barry. The primary legislation relating to the scheme was implemented by amendments to the Social Security Act (Cap 266), and the subsidiary implementing legislation is the Social Security (National Health Insurance) Regulations, 2015.\n\nFrom a relatively early stage of the scheme's life, doubts were expressed about its long term sustainability. In the year 2017 it ran at a deficit of nearly US$650,000, with greater losses predicted in 2018.\n\n the British Virgin Islands Health Services Authority provided approximately US$6.6 million worth of services annually, but only receives about $1.8 million from patients. The shortfall is paid principally by the Ministry of Health and the balance is either written off or allowed to roll over as uncollected debts by the BVIHSA. Public health care is also effectively subsidised by pricing services at a level which is deliberately set below the actual cost of providing the care. User fees are estimated to recover just 8% of the operating costs of primary and secondary health care services. As a result, the net expenditure on health accounts for approximately 17% of total government expenditure. Attempts to reduce the strain on Government by increasing the cost of services have proved to be politically controversial.\n\nTo address the chronic shortfall, the Government proposed devising a National Health Insurance scheme to essentially pass most of this cost on to employed persons and the businesses that employed them. The Ministry of Health developed the supporting operational framework and legislation, in consultation with the University of the West Indies Health Economics Unit.\n\nThe proposed scheme was first suggested in approximately 2006. Whether by coincidence or design, this was approximately the same time as the Government embarked an ambitious rebuilding project in relation to the main Government hospital, Peebles Hospital. The new hospital has been a financial disaster for the Government. It was originally budgeted at approximately US$10 million, and expected to take just under 2 years to construct. In the event, the hospital cost well over US$100 million to construct, and took over a decade. It also costs a further US$16 million to furnish to become operational. by 2012 public debt had quadrupled from pre-2007 levels to approximately US$113 million (approximately 10.3% of GDP). Nearly 84% of that public debt was attributable to the new public hospital project, exacerbating budget stresses.\n\nThe NHI scheme was seen as a way of alleviating the cash-drain caused by underwriting public health expenditure. Initial budgets provided for the scheme to raise approximately US$22 million, leaving the Government still funding a balance of approximately US$8 million. However, the proposal remains controversial amongst the public, not least because - in simple terms - it amounts to the equivalent of a 7.5% increase in taxes.\n\nHowever, even with the expected revenue from the NHI scheme, the hospital will still be heavily underfunded, with an estimated budget shortfall of US$7 million in 2016.\n\nImplementation of the scheme was repeatedly delayed. Legislation was implemented to bring NHI into effect in 2014. Although the proposed date at the time was for NHI to have come into effect in October 2014, this did not happen. Revised dates have included January 2015 and September 2015, although during election campaigning the Minister for Health suggested this might be pushed back to January 2016. This is consistent with press assumptions that, because NHI will involve making deductions from payroll (which will be perceived similarly to a tax increase), implementation would likely to be postponed until after the 2015 general election (which occurred in June).\n\nEventually registration of persons commenced on 1 September 2015, and the scheme itself came into effect on 1 January 2016. Although it had previously been suggested that collections would start three months prior to any benefits being available, the Ministry for Health confirmed that benefits will be available immediately from the time of first payments.\n\nIn September 2016 a local newsite ran an article referring to the National Health Insurance scheme as a \"national disappointment\". But the article did note that much of the disappointment arose from local health service providers increasing fees beyond coverage levels forcing consumers to pay increased out-of-pocket claims.\n\nThe scheme has been controversial since its inception. Upon its implementation one news site described it as having been subjected to a \"barrage of criticisms from the public\". However, because all of the major political parties in the British Virgin Islands supported the scheme, there has been very little debate over the proposals and progress towards the scheme has continued despite changes in Government. Nonetheless, the strong criticisms have been voiced in relation to the proposals, including the relatively expensive cost of the insurance compared to the private sector, the relatively low lifetime cap (and that a person will continue having to pay contributions after they hit the lifetime cap), and questions regarding the validity of Government statistics which were used to justify the introduction of the scheme. Doubts have also been expressed whether the limited staff and resources will be able to handle the estimated 200,000 claims each year.\n\nShortly after registration commenced, an online petition started urging the Government to abandon the proposed National Health Insurance scheme and reconsider the issues. That petition was brushed aside, which led to threats of potential legal action.\n\nConcerns have also been expressed in the media and by politicians that the additional levy on salary (for both the employer and employee) would depress wages and limit job creation. These concerns have been largely brushed aside. The introduction on a further levy on employers may create a disincentive to employ additional persons and create downward pressure on wages, with one local news website warning of the risk of \"huge layoffs\".\n\nTo date the scheme has no reinsurers, and has not tendered for any reinsurers. Private health insurance brokers in the Territory have questioned the viability of this.\n\nThe Government has come under periodic pressure, questioning whether the entire project is financially viable. Only in 2015 did the Government make limited details of actuarial studies conducted in 2012 available to the public. Opponents of the scheme have pointed to studies which purportedly show that the scheme could potentially run at a deficit of US$45 – 200 million by the fourth year of its operation, excluding costs associated with \"lawsuits over confidentiality, malpractice and errors and omissions\". Including such costs the shortfall may increase to as much as US$400 million. By comparison, annual Government revenues for the entire Territory in 2014 were US$302 million. Subsequent actuarial studies indicated that the Government may have underestimated the costs by as much as 14%. Despite the fact that the official census records a population of just over 28,000 in the Territory, nearly 40,000 enrolled in the NHI scheme, which may reflect a large number of non-residents living in the nearby U.S. Virgin Islands who hold BVI citizenship also registering.\n\nA little over a year after the scheme was introduced, the Government was already expressing concerns about its sustainability.\n\nAll insurers are required by British Virgin Islands law to maintain a regulatory licence to conduct insurance business, to have business plans and financial feasibility approved by the independent regulator, and to deposit capital in a secured account with respect to long term contingent liabilities. The NHI scheme was not required to do any of these things.\n\nIn November 2016 the director of the scheme, Roy Barry, announced that thousands of employees were to have their benefits withdrawn because their employers had not paid over the relevant contributions. This action was taken notwithstanding that the employers in question had deducted the contributions from the employees' pay. Newspaper reports subsequently pointed out that this action was illegal under the relevant statutory instruments.\n\nIn February 2017 it was reported that the Social Security Board was being sued a Florida-based company, JIPA Network, in relation to an October 2015 agreement to provide access to thousands of preferred healthcare providers overseas.\n\nNHI will be funded by contributions made by all employed persons working in the British Virgin Islands, and deducted in the same manner as social security contributions. Contributions will be based on a percentage rate applied to a maximum of twice the national insurable earnings which was most recently set at US$38,610 per annum for 2014. Accordingly, the ceiling for NHI deductions on earnings would be US$77,220 - any income earned above that figure would not be subject to deduction. Income up to that level would be subject to the NHI deduction at the proposed initial rate is 7.5%. That rate is to be split equally between employer and employee - so the employee has 3.75% deducted from their salary, and the employer pays a 3.75% levy on payroll. The maximum monthly contribution for one individual would be US$482.63 per month based up on 2014 maximum insurable earnings.\n\nHowever, unemployed spouses will have to contribute 7.5% based on \"their partners\"' insurable earnings. Accordingly, couples where only one partner works will be subject to effectively a double levy. Accordingly, an employed person with a non-working spouse might be required to pay as much as US$965.26.\n\nChildren under 18 will be exempt (or up to 25 if in full-time education).\n\nInitially financial modelling (conducted in 2012) projected that the total revenue generated annually by NHI was expected to be $74,308,000, and expenditure was expected to be approximately $70,788,000 annually in the initial stage. The expected revenues were broken down into Government's direct contribution (approximately $39,273,000); premium contributions (approximately $28,825,000); and revenue from investment returns, co-payments and surcharges (approximately $6,210,000). Under some pressure from the public, the Government requested a fresh actuarial assessment in 2015. When released the second actuarial study indicated that the expenditure could be as high as $81,000,000 (or 14% higher than projected), and that the Government's contribution would thereby increase to approximately $43,000,000.\n\nA revised consultants report in June 2016 indicated that costs were expected to be $80.5 million in the first year (2016) and rising to $92.5 million by 2020. 54 per cent of that cost is to be met directly by Government, and 46 per cent of the cost from mandatory contributions by workers. The same report also advised the Government to include a $16.7 million contingency on its accounts for the \"numerous contingent events and risks\" that the scheme is exposed to.\n\nIn July 2016 it was reported that \"over 800 people\" were penalised for registering late on the scheme.\n\nIn June 2018 it was reported that the NHI scheme had run at a net loss of US$646,843 for the calendar year 2017. Losses were expected to be greater in 2018 because of the cumulative effects of Hurricane Irma. The same report also indicated that 36,057 persons were registered with NHI at the end of 2017, despite the resident population of the British Virgin Islands being only approximately 27,000.\n\nThe following categories of health care services will be insured under the NHI for treatment within the Territory only:\n\nApproval for coverage for overseas treatment will be determined by a Medical Review Committee with five members who will control access to overseas care.\n\nUnder NHI there will be a proposed maximum lifetime limit for cost of care of US$1,000,000.\n\nMost treatment which is insured under NHI will be subject to a copayment. The present proposed copayments are:\n\nCertain limitations on coverage are proposed:\n\nIn November 2016, after the scheme had been running for just under a year, Government announced it would make changes to the scheme to address some of the criticisms relating to health service providers increasing their charges and profiteering off the scheme. This followed a period of sustained criticism when allegations were made about providers dramatically increasing prices, and users of the scheme being left with large charges under the co-pay.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "390975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=390975", "title": "National Party (South Africa)", "text": "National Party (South Africa)\n\nThe National Party (NP) (), also known as the Nationalist Party, was a political party in South Africa founded in 1914 and disbanded in 1997. The party was originally an Afrikaner ethnic nationalist party that promoted Afrikaner interests in South Africa. However in the early 1990s it became a South African civic nationalist party seeking to represent all South Africans. It first became the governing party of the country in 1924. It was in opposition during World War II but it returned to power and was again in the government from 4 June 1948 until 9 May 1994. \n\nBeginning in 1948 the party as the governing party of South Africa began implementing its policy of racial segregation, known as apartheid (the Afrikaans term for \"separateness\"). Although white-minority rule and racial segregation based on white supremacy were already in existence in South Africa with non-whites not having voting rights and efforts made to encourage segregation, apartheid intensified the segregation with stern penalties for non-whites entering into areas designated for whites-only without having a pass to permit them to do so (known as the pass laws), interracial marriage and sexual relationships were illegal and punishable offences, and blacks faced significant restrictions on property rights. Upon South Africa being condemned in the British Commonwealth for its policies of apartheid the NP-led government had South Africa leave the Commonwealth, abandon its monarchy led by the British monarch and become a republic. \n\nDuring the 1970s and 1980s, the NP-led government faced internal unrest in South Africa and international pressure for accommodation of non-Whites in South Africa resulted in policies of granting concessions to the non-white population, while still retaining the apartheid system, such as the creation of Bantustans that were autonomous self-governing black homelands (criticized for several of them being broken up into unconnected pieces and that they were still dominated by the white minority South African government), removing legal prohibitions on interracial marriage, and legalizing non-white and multiracial political parties (however the outlawed though very popular African National Congress (ANC), was not legalized due to the government identifying it as a terrorist organization). Those identified as Coloureds and Indian South Africans were granted separate legislatures in 1983 alongside the main legislature that represented whites to provide them self-government while maintaining apartheid, but no such legislature was provided to the black population as their self-government was to be provided through the Bantustans. The NP-led government began changed laws affected by the apartheid system that had come under heavy domestic and international condemnation such as removing the pass laws, granting blacks full property rights that ended previous major restrictions on black ownership of land, and the right to form trade unions. Following escalating economic sanctions over apartheid, negotiations between the NP-led government led by P. W. Botha and the outlawed ANC led by then-imprisoned Nelson Mandela began in 1987 with Botha seeking to accommodate the ANC's demands and consider releasing Mandela and legalizing the ANC on the condition that it would renounce use of political violence to attain its aims.\n\nIn the 1989 South African general election, the party under F. W. de Klerk's leadership declared that it intended to negotiate with the black South African community for a political solution to accommodate black South Africans. This resulted in De Klerk declaring in February 1990 the decision to transition South Africa out of apartheid, and permitted the release of Mandela from prison and ending South Africa's ban on the ANC and other anti-apartheid movements, and began negotiations with the ANC for a post-apartheid political system. However there was significant opposition among hardliner supporters of apartheid that resulted in De Klerk's government responding to them by holding a national referendum on Apartheid in 1992 for the white population only allowed to vote in that asked them if they supported the government's policy to end apartheid and establish elections open to all South Africans, a large majority voted in favour of the government's policy. With support for ending apartheid secured among white South Africans, the party opened up its membership to all racial groups and rebranded itself as no longer being an ethnic nationalist party only representing Afrikaners, but would henceforth be a civic nationalist and conservative party representing all South Africans. In the 1994 elections it managed to expand its base to include many non-whites including significant support from Coloured and Indian South Africans. It participated in the Government of National Unity between 1994 and 1996. In an attempt to distance itself from its past, the party was renamed the New National Party in 1997. The attempt was largely unsuccessful and the new party decided to merge with the ANC.\n\nThe National Party was founded in Bloemfontein in 1914 by Afrikaner nationalists soon after the establishment of the Union of South Africa. Its founding was rooted in disagreements among South African Party politicians, particularly Prime Minister Louis Botha and his first Minister of Justice, J. B. M. Hertzog. After Hertzog began speaking out publicly against the Botha government's \"one-stream\" policy in 1912, Botha removed him from the cabinet. Hertzog and his followers in the Orange Free State province subsequently moved to establish the National Party to oppose the government by advocating a \"two-stream\" policy of equal rights for the English and Afrikaner communities. Afrikaner nationalists in the Transvaal and Cape provinces soon followed suit, so that three distinct provincial NP organisations were in existence in time for the 1915 general elections.\n\nThe NP first came to power in coalition with the Labour Party in 1924, with Hertzog as Prime Minister. In 1930 the Hertzog government worked to undermine the vote of Coloureds (South Africans of mixed white and non-white ancestry) by granting the right to vote to white women, thus doubling white political power. In 1934 Hertzog agreed to merge his National Party with the rival South African Party of Jan Smuts to form the United Party. A hardline faction of Afrikaner nationalists led by Daniel François Malan refused to accept the merger and maintained a rump National Party called the 'Gesuiwerde Nasionale Party' (Purified National Party). The Purified National Party used opposition to South African participation in World War II to stir up anti-British feelings amongst Afrikaners. This led to a reunification of the Purified Nationalists with the faction that had merged with the South African Party; together they formed the Herenigde Nasionale Party (Reunited National Party), which went on to defeat Smuts' United Party in 1948 in coalition with the much smaller Afrikaner Party. In 1951, the two amalgamated to once again become known simply as the National Party.\n\nUpon taking power after the 1948 general election, the NP began to implement a program of apartheid – the legal system of political, economic and social separation of the races intended to maintain and extend political and economic control of South Africa by the white minority.\n\nIn 1959 the Bantu Self-Government Act established so-called Homelands (sometime pejoratively called Bantustans) for ten different black tribes. The ultimate goal of the NP was to move all black South Africans into one of these homelands (although they might continue to work in South Africa as \"guest workers\"), leaving what was left of South Africa (about 87 percent of the land area) with what would then be a white majority, at least on paper. As the homelands were seen by the apartheid government as embryonic independent nations, all black South Africans were registered as citizens of the homelands, not of the nation as a whole, and were expected to exercise their political rights only in the homelands. Accordingly, the three token parliamentary seats that had been reserved for white representatives of black South Africans in the Cape Province were scrapped. The other three provinces – Transvaal Province, the Orange Free State Province, and Natal Province had never allowed any black representation.\n\nColoureds were removed from the Common Roll of Cape Province in 1953. Instead of voting for the same representatives as white South Africans, they could now only vote for four white representatives to speak for them. Later, in 1968, the Coloureds were disenfranchised altogether. In the place of the four parliamentary seats, a partially elected body was set up to advise the government in an amendment to the Separate Representation of Voters Act. This made the electorate entirely white, as Indian South Africans had never had any representation.\n\nIn a move unrecognised by the rest of the world, the former German colony of South-West Africa (now Namibia), which South Africa had occupied in World War I, was effectively incorporated into South Africa as a League of Nations mandate, with seven members elected to represent its white citizens in the Parliament of South Africa. The white minority of South-West Africa, predominantly Germans and Afrikaners, considered its interests akin to those of the Afrikaners in South Africa and therefore supported the National Party in subsequent elections.\n\nThese reforms all bolstered the NP politically, as they removed black and Coloured influence – which was hostile to the NP – from the electoral process, and incorporated the pro-nationalist whites of South-West Africa. The NP increased its parliamentary majority in almost every election between 1948 and 1977.\n\nNumerous segregation laws had been passed before the NP took power in 1948. Among the most significant were the 'Natives Land Act, No 27 of 1913', and the 'Natives (Urban Areas) Act of 1923'. The former made it illegal for blacks to purchase or lease land from whites except in reserves, which restricted black occupancy to less than eight percent of South Africa's land. The latter laid the foundations for residential segregation in urban areas. apartheid laws passed by the NP after 1948 included the 'Prohibition of Mixed Marriages Act', the 'Immorality Act', the 'Population Registration Act', and the 'Group Areas Act', which prohibited non-white males from being in certain areas of the country (especially at night) unless they were employed there.\n\nThe NP was a strong advocate of republicanism. Republics had existed in South Africa prior to the British invasion, and Afrikaner nationalists had been pursuing them ever since. The republican ideal was a new one to Cape Dutch descended Afrikaners but not to those of Boer descent: in the 1830s, the Great Trek had brought about the formation of three independent Boer republics – the ephemeral Natalia Republic (today KwaZulu-Natal), the South African Republic (later Transvaal) and the Orange Free State (called simply Free State today). Boers governed themselves within these republics and were not required to answer to the British. This liberty was short-lived however, as the United Kingdom extended its rule over all of southern Africa. Natalia was annexed in the 1840s, and the other two republics were taken over by the British in the Second Boer War.\n\nThe republican ideal was not crushed, however. In 1914, the Afrikaners led the failed Maritz Rebellion against the government; in 1916 an NP congress called initially for a return to republicanism but then decided that it was too early; 1918 saw the founding of the Broederbond (Brother Bond), a cultural establishment with powerful Afrikaner nationalist and republican overtones. The Republican Bond was established in the 1930s, and other republican organisations such as the Purified National Party, the Voortrekkers, Noodhulpliga (First-Aid League) and the Federasie van Afrikaanse Kultuurverenigings (Federation of Afrikaans Cultural Organisations) also came into being. There was a popular outpouring of nationalist sentiment around the 1938 centenary of the Great Trek and the Battle of Blood River. It was seen to signify the perpetuation of white South African culture, and anti-British and pro-republican feelings grew stronger.\n\nIt was obvious in political circles that the Union of South Africa was headed inexorably towards republicanism. Although it remained a British dominion even after unification in 1910, the country became all the more self-regulating; indeed, it already had complete autonomy on certain issues. It was agreed in 1910 that domestic matters would be looked after by the South African government but that the country's external affairs would still remain British-controlled.\n\nHertzog's trip to the 1919 Paris Peace Conference was a definite (if failed) attempt to gain independence. In 1926, however, the Balfour Declaration was passed, affording every British dominion within the British Empire equal rank and bestowing upon them their own right of direction of foreign issues. This resulted the following year in the institution of South Africa's first-ever Department of Foreign Affairs. 1931 saw a backtrack as the Statute of Westminster resolved that British dominions could not have \"total\" control over their external concerns, but in 1934 the Status and Seals Acts were passed, granting the South African Parliament even greater power than the British government over the Union.\n\nThe extreme NP members of the 1930s were known collectively as the Republikeinse Bond. The following organisations, parties and events promoted the republican ideal in the 1930s:\nThere was some confusion about the republican ideal during the war years. The Herenigde Nasionale Party, with Hertzog its leader, pushed the issue into the background. After Hertzog left the party, however, it became republican. In 1942 and 1944 Daniel François Malan introduced a motion in the House of Assembly in favour of the establishment of a republic, but this was defeated.\n\nWhen the NP came to power in 1948 (making it the first all-Afrikaner cabinet since 1910), there were two uppermost priorities that it was determined to fulfill:\n\n\nBetween 1948 and 1961, Prime Ministers D. F. Malan, J. G. Strijdom and Hendrik Verwoerd all worked very hard for the latter, implementing a battery of policies and changes in a bid to increase the country's autonomy. Divided loyalty, they felt, was holding South Africa back. They wanted to break the country's ties with the United Kingdom and establish a republic, and many South Africans grew confident that a republic was possible.\n\nUnfortunately for its republicans, however, the NP was not in a strong parliamentary position. Although it held a majority (only five) of seats, a large number of these were in rural constituencies, which had far fewer voters than urban constituencies. The United Party held a 100,000-vote lead. Consequently, the NP had to rely on the Afrikaner Party's support. It did not, therefore, have the groundswell of public support that it needed to win a referendum, and only when it had that majority on its side could a referendum be held on the republican matter. However, with a small seating majority and a total vote-tally minority, it was impossible for now for Malan and his ardently republican nats to bring about a republic constitutionally. In the interim, the NP would have to consolidate itself and not antagonise the British.\n\nMany English-speakers did not want to break their ties with the United Kingdom. However, in 1949, at the Commonwealth Prime Ministers' Conference in London (with Malan in attendance), India requested that, in spite of its newly attained republican status, it remain a member of the British Commonwealth. When this was granted the following year by the London Declaration, it roused a great deal of debate in South Africa between the pro-republican NP and the anti-republican UP (under Strauss). What it meant was that, even if South Africa did become a republic, it did not automatically have to sever all of its ties with the UK and the British Commonwealth. This gained the movement further support from the English-speaking populace, which was less worried about being isolated; and the republican ideal looked closer than ever to being fulfilled.\n\nAlthough he could not yet make South Africa a republic, Malan could prepare the country for this eventuality. In his term of office, from 1948 to 1954, Malan took a number of steps to break ties with the UK:\n\n\nThe 1953 ballot votes saw the NP fortify its position considerably, winning comfortably but still falling well short of the clear majority it sought: it had 94 seats in parliament to the UP's 57 and the Labour Party's five.\n\nMalan retired in 1954, at the age of eighty. The two succession contenders were J. G. Strijdom (Minister of Lands and Irrigation) and Havenga (Minister of Finance). Malan personally preferred the latter and, indeed, recommended him. Malan and Strijdom had clashed frequently over the years, particularly on the question of whether a republican South Africa should be inside or outside the Commonwealth.\n\nStrijdom, however, had the support of Verwoerd and Ben Schoeman, and he was eventually voted in as Prime Minister. Strijdom was a passionate and outspoken Afrikaner and republican, and he wholeheartedly supported apartheid. He was completely intolerant towards non-Afrikaners and liberal ideas, utterly determined to maintain white rule, with zero compromise. Known as the \"Lion of the North\", Strijdom made few changes to his cabinet and pursued with vigour the policy of apartheid. By 1956, he successfully placed the Coloureds on a separate voters' roll, thus further weakening ties with the Commonwealth and gaining support for the NP.\n\nHe also took several other steps to make South Africa less dependent on Britain:\n\n\nAnti-republican South Africans recognised the shift and distancing from Britain, and the UP grew increasingly anxious, doing all that it could to persuade Parliament to retain Commonwealth links. Strijdom, however, declared that South Africa's participation (or otherwise) in the Commonwealth would be determined only by its best interests.\n\nThe question of apartheid dominated the 1958 election and the NP took 55% of the vote, thus winning a clear majority for the first time. When Strijdom died that same year, there was a tripartite succession contest between Swart, Dönges and Verwoerd. The latter, devoted to the cause of a republican South Africa, was the new Prime Minister. Verwoerd, a former Minister of Native Affairs, played a leading role in the institution of the apartheid system. Under his leadership, the NP solidified its control over South African apartheid-era politics.\n\nTo gain support of the English-identified population of South Africa, Verwoerd appointed several English-speakers to his cabinet. He also cited the radical political movements elsewhere in the African continent as vindication of his belief that black and white nationalism could not work within the same system. Verwoerd also presented the NP as the party best equipped to deal with the widely perceived threat of communism.\n\nBy the end of his term (caused by his assassination), Verwoerd had solidified the NP's domination of South African politics. In the 1966 elections the party won 126 out of the 170 seats in Parliament.\n\nBy 1960, however, much of the South African electorate were calling for withdrawal from the Commonwealth and the establishment of South Africa as a republic. It was decided that a republican referendum was to be held in October. International circumstances made the referendum a growing necessity. In the aftermath of the World War II, former British colonies in Africa and Asia were gaining independence and publicising the ills of apartheid. Commonwealth members were determined to isolate South Africa.\n\nThere were numerous internal factors that had paved the way for and may be viewed as influences on the result:\n\n\nThe opposition accused Verwoerd of trying to break from the Commonwealth and the west, thus losing South Africa all of its trade preferences. The NP, however, launched a vigorously enthusiastic political campaign, with widely advertised public meetings. The opposition found it very difficult to fight for the preservation of British links.\n\nThere were numerous pro-republican arguments:\n\n\nThere were also, of course, numerous arguments the establishment of a republic:\n\n\nOn 5 October 1960, 90.5% of the white electorate turned out to vote on the issue. 850,458 (52%) voted in favour of a republic, while 775,878 were against it. The Cape, Orange Free State and Transvaal were all in favour; Natal, a mainly English-speaking province, was not. It was a narrow victory for the republicans. However, a considerable number of Afrikaners did vote against the measure. The few blacks, Indians and Coloureds allowed to vote were decidedly against the measure.\n\nEnglish-speakers who voted for a republic had done so on condition that their cultural heritage be safeguarded. Many had associated a republic with the survival of the white South Africans. Macmillan's speech had illustrated that the British government was no longer prepared to stand by South Africa's racist policies. Nevertheless, the referendum was a significant victory for Afrikaner nationalism as British political and cultural influence waned in South Africa.\n\nHowever, one question remained after the referendum: would South Africa become a republic outside the Commonwealth (the outcome favoured by the most Afrikaner nationalists)? Withdrawal from the Commonwealth would likely alienate English-speakers and damage relations with many other countries. Former British colonies such as India, Pakistan and Ghana were all republics within the Commonwealth, and Verwoerd announced that his would follow suit \"if possible\".\n\nIn January 1961, Verwoerd's government brought forth legislation to transform the Union of South Africa into the Republic of South Africa. The constitution was finished in April. It merged the authority of the British Crown and Governor-General into a new post, State President. The State President would have rather little political power, serving more as the ceremonial head of state. The political power was to lie with the Prime Minister (head of government). The Republic of South Africa would also have its own monetary system, employing Rands and cents.\n\nIn March 1961, Verwoerd visited the Imperial Conference in London to discuss South Africa becoming a republic within the Commonwealth, presenting the Republic of South Africa's application for a renewal of its membership to the Commonwealth. The Commonwealth had earlier declined to predict how republican status would affect South Africa's membership, it did not want to be seen to be meddling in its members' domestic affairs. However, many of the Conference's affiliates (prominent among them the Afro-Asia group and Canadian Prime Minister John Diefenbaker) attacked South Africa's racial policies and rebuffed Verwoerd's application; they would go to any lengths to expel South Africa from the Commonwealth. In the UK, numerous anti-apartheid movements were also campaigning for South Africa's exclusion. Some member countries warned that, unless South Africa was expelled, they would themselves pull out of the organisation. Verwoerd discarded the censure, arguing that his Commonwealth cohorts had no right to question and criticise the domestic affairs of his country. On this issue, he even had the support of his parliamentary opposition.\n\nThus, on 15 March 1961, ostensibly to Britain an awkward decision and causing a split within the Commonwealth, but more likely to avoid further condemnation and embarrassment, Verwoerd withdrew his application and announced that South Africa would become a republic outside the Commonwealth. His decision was received with regret by the Prime Ministers of the UK, Australia and New Zealand, but was met with obvious approval from South Africa's critics. Verwoerd issued a statement the next day to the effect that the move would not affect South Africa's relationship with the United Kingdom. On his homecoming, he was met with a rapturous reception. Afrikaner nationalists were not at all deterred by the relinquishment of Commonwealth membership, for they regarded the Commonwealth as little more than the British Empire in disguise. They believed that South Africa and the United Kingdom had absolutely nothing in common, and even UP leader Sir De Villiers Graaff praised Verwoerd for his handling of the situation.\n\nOn 31 May 1961, South Africa became a republic. The date was a significant one in Afrikaner history, as it heralded the anniversary of a number of historical events, the 1902 Treaty of Vereeniging, which ended the Anglo-Boer War; South Africa's becoming a union in 1910; and the first hoisting of the Union flag in 1928. The Afrikaner republican dream had finally come to reality.\n\nThe significance of Commonwealth withdrawal turned out to be less than had been expected. It was not necessary for South Africa to amend its trading preferences, and Prime Minister Macmillan reciprocated Verwoerd's assurance that withdrawal would not alter trade between South Africa and the UK.\n\nSouth Africa had now its first independent constitution, although the only real constitutional change was that the State President, in charge for seven years, would assume the now-vacant position of the Queen as Head of State. C. R. Swart, the State President elect, took the first republican oath as State President of South Africa before Chief Justice Steyn (DRC).\n\nAlthough white inhabitants were generally happy with the republic, united in their support of Verwoerd, the blacks defiantly rejected the move. Nelson Mandela and his National Action Council demonstrated from 29 to 31 May 1961. The republican issue would strongly intensify resistance to apartheid.\n\nThe NP won a majority of parliamentary seats in all elections during the apartheid era. Its popular vote record was more mixed: While it won the popular vote with a comfortable margin in most general elections, the NP carried less than 50% of the electorate in 1948, 1953, 1961, and 1989. In 1977, the NP got its best-ever result in the elections with support of 64.8% of the white voters and 134 seats in parliament out of 165. After this the party's support declined as a proliferation of right wing parties siphoned off important segments of its traditional voter base.\n\nThroughout its reign, the party's support came mainly from Afrikaners, but other white people were courted by and increasingly voted for the NP after 1960. By the 1980s however, in reaction to the \"verligte\" reforms of P. W. Botha, the majority of Afrikaners drifted to the Conservative Party of Andries Treurnicht, who called for a return to the traditional policies of the NP. In the 1974 general elections for example 91% of Afrikaners voted for the NP, however in the 1989 general elections only 46% of Afrikaners cast their ballot for the National party.\n\nFollowing the assassination of Verwoerd, John Vorster took over as party leader and prime minister. From the 1960s onwards, the NP and the Afrikaner population in general was increasingly divided over the application of apartheid (the legal opposition being similarly divided over its response), leading to the emergence of the \"verkramptes\" and \"verligtes\". They were divided over such issues as immigration, language, racially-mixed sporting teams, and engagement with black African states. In 1969, members of the \"verkrampte\" faction including Albert Hertzog and Jaap Marais, formed the Herstigte Nasionale Party, which claimed to be the true upholder of pure Verwoerdian apartheid ideology and continues to exist today. While it never had much electoral success, it attracted sufficient numbers to erode support for the government at crucial points, although not to the extent that the Conservative Party would do. Meanwhile, the verligtes began to gain some traction inside the party in response to growing international opposition to apartheid. Perhaps a precursor to the split came around 1960 when Japie Basson, a moderate, was expelled for disagreements on racial questions and would form his own National Union Party, he would later join the United Party and Progressive Federal Party before rejoining the NP in the 1980s. Former Interior Minister Theo Gerdener formed the Democratic Party in 1973 to attempt its own verligte solution to racial questions.\nBeginning in the early 1980s, under the leadership of Pieter Willem Botha, Prime Minister since 1978, the NP began to reform its policies. Botha legalised interracial marriages and multiracial political parties and relaxed the Group Areas Act. Botha also amended the constitution to grant a measure of political representation to Coloureds and Indians by creating separate parliamentary chambers in which they had control of their \"own affairs\". The amendments also replaced the parliamentary system with a presidential one. The powers of the Prime Minister were essentially merged with those of the State President, which was vested with sweeping executive powers. Although portraying the new system as a power-sharing agreement, Botha ensured that the real power remained in white hands, and in practice, in the hands of the NP. Whites had large majorities in the electoral college, which chose the State President, as well as on the President's Council, which settled disputes between the three chambers and decided which combination of them could consider any piece of legislation. However, Botha and the NP refused to budge on the central issue of granting meaningful political rights to black South Africans, who remained unrepresented even after the reforms. Most black political organisations remained banned, and prominent black leaders, including Nelson Mandela, remained imprisoned.\n\nWhile Botha's reforms did not even begin to meet the opposition's demands, they sufficiently alarmed a segment of his own party to engender a second split. In 1982, hardline NP members including Andries Treurnicht and Ferdinand Hartzenberg formed the Conservative Party, committed to reversing Botha's reforms, which by 1987 became the largest parliamentary opposition party. The party later merged into the Freedom Front, which today represents Afrikaner nationalism. On the other hand, some reformist NP members also left the party, such as Dennis Worrall and Wynand Malan, who formed the Independent Party, which later merged into the Democratic Party (a similar breakaway group existed for a time in the 1970s). The loss of NP support to both the DP and CP reflected the divisions among white voters over continued maintenance of apartheid.\nIn the midst of rising political instability, growing economic problems and diplomatic isolation, Botha resigned as NP leader, and subsequently as State President in 1989. He was replaced by F. W. de Klerk in this capacity. Although conservative by inclination, De Klerk had become the leader of an \"enlightened\" NP faction that realised the impracticality of maintaining apartheid forever. He decided that it would be better to negotiate while there was still time to reach a compromise, than to hold out until forced to negotiate on less favourable terms later. He persuaded the NP to enter into negotiations with representatives of the black community. Late in 1989, the NP won the most bitterly contested election in decades, pledging to negotiate an end to the very apartheid system that it had established. On 2 February 1990, the African National Congress was legalised, and Nelson Mandela was released after twenty-seven years of imprisonment. In the same year, the NP opened its membership to all racial groups and moves began to repeal the racial legislation that had been the foundations of apartheid. A referendum in 1992 gave De Klerk plenipotentiary powers to negotiate with Mandela. Following the negotiations, a new interim constitution was drawn up, and non-racial democratic elections were held in 1994. These elections were won by the African National Congress. The NP remained in government, however, as a coalition partner to the ANC in the Government of National Unity until 30 June 1996, when it withdrew to become the official opposition.\n\nThe NP won 20.39% of the vote and 82 seats in the National Assembly in the first democratic elections in 1994. This support extended well beyond the white community and into other minority groups. For instance, two-thirds of Indian South Africans voted for the NP. It became the official opposition in most provinces and also won a majority in the Western Cape, winning much of the White and Coloured vote. Its Coloured support also earned it a strong second place in the Northern Cape. The party was wracked by internal wranglings whilst it participated in the Government of National Unity, and finally withdrew from the government to become the official opposition in 1996. Despite this, it remained uncertain about its future direction, and was continually outperformed in parliament by the much smaller Democratic Party (DP), which provided a more forceful and principled opposition stance. In 1997, its voter base began to gradually shift to the DP. The NP renamed itself the New National Party towards the end of 1997, to distance itself from its past. \n\nHowever, the NNP would quickly disappear from the political scene, faring poorly in both the 1999 and 2004 elections. Going back and forth on whether to oppose or work with the ANC, the two finally formed an alliance in late 2001. After years of losing members and support to other parties, the NNP's collapse in its previous stronghold in the Western Cape in the 2004 election proved to be the final straw; its federal council voted to dissolve the party on 9 April 2005, following a decision the previous year to merge with the ANC.\n\nOn 5 August 2008 a new party using the name of \"National Party South Africa\" was formed and registered with the Independent Electoral Commission. The new party had no formal connection with the now defunct New National Party. The relaunched National Party of 2008 pushes for a non-racial democratic South Africa based on federal principles and the legacy of F. W. de Klerk.\n\n"}
{"id": "23454753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23454753", "title": "Nineteen Eighty-Four", "text": "Nineteen Eighty-Four\n\nNineteen Eighty-Four, often published as 1984, is a dystopian novel by English author George Orwell published in June 1949. The novel is set in the year 1984 when most of the world population have become victims of perpetual war, omnipresent government surveillance and propaganda.\n\nIn the novel, Great Britain (\"Airstrip One\") has become a province of a superstate named Oceania. Oceania is ruled by the \"Party\", who employ the \"Thought Police\" to persecute individualism and independent thinking. The Party's leader is Big Brother, who enjoys an intense cult of personality but may not even exist. The protagonist of the novel, Winston Smith, is a rank-and-file Party member. Smith is an outwardly diligent and skillful worker, but he secretly hates the Party and dreams of rebellion against Big Brother. Smith rebels by entering a forbidden relationship with fellow employee Julia.\n\nAs literary political fiction and dystopian science-fiction, \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\" is a classic novel in content, plot, and style. Many of its terms and concepts, such as \"Big Brother\", \"doublethink\", \"thoughtcrime\", \"Newspeak\", \"Room 101\", \"telescreen\", \"2 + 2 = 5\", and \"memory hole\", have entered into common usage since its publication in 1949. \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\" popularised the adjective \"Orwellian\", which connotes official deception, secret surveillance, brazenly misleading terminology and manipulation of recorded history by a totalitarian or authoritarian state. In 2005, the novel was chosen by \"Time\" magazine as one of the 100 best English-language novels from 1923 to 2005. It was awarded a place on both lists of Modern Library 100 Best Novels, reaching number 13 on the editor's list, and 6 on the readers' list. In 2003, the novel was listed at number 8 on the BBC's survey The Big Read.\n\nOrwell \"encapsulate[d] the thesis at the heart of his unforgiving novel\" in 1944, the implications of dividing the world up into zones of influence, which had been conjured by the Tehran Conference. Three years later, he wrote most of it on the Scottish island of Jura from 1947 to 1948 despite being seriously ill with tuberculosis. On 4 December 1948, he sent the final manuscript to the publisher Secker and Warburg, and \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\" was published on 8 June 1949. By 1989, it had been translated into 65 languages, more than any other novel in English until then. The title of the novel, its themes, the \"Newspeak\" language and the author's surname are often invoked against control and intrusion by the state, and the adjective \"Orwellian\" describes a totalitarian dystopia that is characterised by government control and subjugation of the people.\n\nOrwell's invented language, Newspeak, satirises hypocrisy and evasion by the state: the Ministry of Love (Miniluv) oversees torture and brainwashing, the Ministry of Plenty (Miniplenty) oversees shortage and rationing, the Ministry of Peace (Minipax) oversees war and atrocity and the Ministry of Truth (Minitrue) oversees propaganda and historical revisionism.\n\n\"The Last Man in Europe\" was an early title for the novel, but in a letter dated 22 October 1948 to his publisher Fredric Warburg, eight months before publication, Orwell wrote about hesitating between that title and \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\". Warburg suggested choosing the main title to be the latter, a more commercial one.\n\nIn his 1978 novel \"1985\", English author Anthony Burgess suggests that Orwell, disillusioned by the onset of the Cold War (1945–91), intended to call the book \"1948\". The introduction to the Penguin Books Modern Classics edition of \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\" reports that Orwell originally set the novel in 1980 but that he later shifted the date to 1982 and then to 1984. The introduction to the Houghton Mifflin Harcourt edition of \"Animal Farm and 1984\" (2003) reports that the title \"1984\" was chosen simply as an inversion of the year 1948, the year in which it was being completed, and that the date was meant to give an immediacy and urgency to the menace of totalitarian rule.\n\nThroughout its publication history, \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\" has been either banned or legally challenged, as subversive or ideologically corrupting, like the dystopian novels \"We\" (1924) by Yevgeny Zamyatin, \"Brave New World\" (1932) by Aldous Huxley, \"Darkness at Noon\" (1940) by Arthur Koestler, \"Kallocain\" (1940) by Karin Boye and \"Fahrenheit 451\" (1953) by Ray Bradbury. Some writers consider the Russian dystopian novel \"We\" by Zamyatin to have influenced \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\", and that the novel bears significant similarities in its plot and characters to \"Darkness at Noon\", written years before by Koestler, who was a personal friend of Orwell.\n\nThe novel is in the public domain in Canada, South Africa, Argentina, Australia, and Oman. It will be in the public domain in the United Kingdom, the EU, and Brazil in 2021 (70 years after the author's death), and in the United States in 2044.\n\n\"Nineteen Eighty-Four\" is set in Oceania, one of three inter-continental superstates that divided the world after a global war.\n\nSmith's memories and his reading of the proscribed book, \"The Theory and Practice of Oligarchical Collectivism\" by Emmanuel Goldstein, reveal that after the Second World War, the United Kingdom became involved in a war fought in Europe, western Russia, and North America during the early 1950s. Nuclear weapons were used during the war, leading to the destruction of Colchester. London would also suffer widespread aerial raids, leading Winston's family to take refuge in a London Underground station. Britain fell to civil war, with street fighting in London, before the English Socialist Party, abbreviated as Ingsoc, emerged victorious and formed a totalitarian government in Britain. The British Commonwealth was absorbed by the United States to become Oceania. Eventually Ingsoc emerged to form a totalitarian government in the country.\n\nSimultaneously, the Soviet Union conquered continental Europe and established the second superstate of Eurasia. The third superstate of Eastasia would emerge in the Far East after several decades of fighting. The three superstates wage perpetual war for the remaining unconquered lands of the world in \"a rough quadrilateral with its corners at Tangier, Brazzaville, Darwin, and Hong Kong\" through constantly shifting alliances. Although each of the three states are said to have sufficient natural resources, the war continues in order to maintain ideological control over the people.\n\nHowever, due to the fact that Winston barely remembers these events and due to the Party's manipulation of history, the continuity and accuracy of these events are unclear. Winston himself notes that the Party has claimed credit for inventing helicopters, airplanes and trains, while Julia theorizes that the perpetual bombing of London is merely a false-flag operation designed to convince the populace that a war is occurring. If the official account was accurate, Smith's strengthening memories and the story of his family's dissolution suggest that the atomic bombings occurred first, followed by civil war featuring \"confused street fighting in London itself\" and the societal postwar reorganisation, which the Party retrospectively calls \"the Revolution\".\n\nMost of the plot takes place in London, the \"chief city of Airstrip One\", the Oceanic province that \"had once been called England or Britain\". Posters of the Party leader, Big Brother, bearing the caption \"BIG BROTHER IS WATCHING YOU\", dominate the city (Winston states it can be found on nearly every house), while the ubiquitous \"telescreen\" (transceiving television set) monitors the private and public lives of the party members. Military parades, propaganda films, and public executions are said to be commonplace.\n\nThe class hierarchy of Oceania has three levels:\nAs the government, the Party controls the population with four ministries:\n\nThe protagonist Winston Smith, a member of the Outer Party, works in the Records Department of the Ministry of Truth as an editor, revising historical records, to make the past conform to the ever-changing party line and deleting references to \"unpersons\", people who have been \"vaporised\", i.e., not only killed by the state but denied existence even in history or memory.\n\nThe story of Winston Smith begins on 4 April 1984: \"It was a bright cold day in April, and the clocks were striking thirteen.\" Yet he is uncertain of the true date, given the regime's continual rewriting and manipulation of history.\n\nIn the year 1984, civilization has been damaged by war, civil conflict, and revolution. Airstrip One (formerly Britain) is a province of Oceania, one of the three totalitarian super-states that rule the world. It is ruled by the \"Party\" under the ideology of \"Ingsoc\" and the mysterious leader Big Brother, who has an intense cult of personality. The Party stamps out anyone who does not fully conform to their regime using the Thought Police and constant surveillance through devices such as Telescreens (two-way televisions).\n\nWinston Smith is a member of the middle class Outer Party. He works at the Ministry of Truth, where he rewrites historical records to conform to the state's ever-changing version of history. Those who fall out of favour with the Party become \"unpersons\", disappearing with all evidence of their existence removed. Winston revises past editions of \"The Times\", while the original documents are destroyed by fire in a \"memory hole\". He secretly opposes the Party's rule and dreams of rebellion. He realizes that he is already a \"thoughtcriminal\" and likely to be caught one day.\n\nWhile in a proletarian neighbourhood, he meets Mr. Charrington, the owner of an antiques shop, and buys a diary. He uses an alcove to hide it from the Telescreen in his room, and writes thoughts criticising the Party and Big Brother. In the journal, he records his sexual frustration over a young woman maintaining the novel-writing machines at the ministry named Julia, whom Winston is attracted to but suspects is an informant. He also suspects that his superior, an Inner Party official named O'Brien, is a secret agent for an enigmatic underground resistance movement known as the Brotherhood, a group formed by Big Brother's reviled political rival Emmanuel Goldstein.\n\nThe next day, Julia secretly hands Winston a note confessing her love for him, which simply reads, \"I love you.\" Winston and Julia begin a torrid affair, an act of the rebellion as the Party insists that sex may only be used for reproduction. Winston realizes that she shares his loathing of the Party. They first meet in the country, and later in a rented room above Mr. Charrington's shop. During his affair with Julia, Winston remembers the disappearance of his family during the civil war of the 1950s and his terse relationship with his ex-wife Katharine. Winston also interacts with his colleague Syme, who is writing a dictionary for a revised version of the English language called Newspeak. After Syme admits that the true purpose of Newspeak is to reduce the capacity of human thought, Winston speculates that Syme will disappear. Not long after, Syme disappears and no one acknowledges his absence.\n\nWeeks later, Winston is approached by O'Brien, who offers Winston a chance to join the Brotherhood. They arrange a meeting at O'Brien's luxurious flat where both Winston and Julia swear allegiance to the Brotherhood. He sends Winston a copy of \"The Theory and Practice of Oligarchical Collectivism\" by Emmanuel Goldstein. Winston and Julia read parts of the book, which explains more about how the Party maintains power, the true meanings of its slogans and the concept of perpetual war. It argues that the Party can be overthrown if \"proles\" (proletarians) rise up against it.\n\nMr. Charrington is revealed to be an agent of the Thought Police. Winston and Julia are captured in the shop and imprisoned in the Ministry of Love. O'Brien reveals that he is actually loyal to the Party, and was simply part of a special sting operation to catch \"thoughtcriminals\". Over many months, Winston is tortured and forced to \"cure\" himself of his \"insanity\" by changing his own perception to fit the Party line, even if it requires believing that \"2 + 2 = 5\". O'Brien openly admits that the Party \"is not interested in the good of others; it is interested solely in power.\" He says that once Winston is brainwashed into loyalty, he will be released back into society for a period of time, before they execute him. O'Brien states that Winston and others who do not love the party will be shot in the back of the head after being released. Winston points out that the Party has not managed to make him betray Julia.\n\nO'Brien then takes Winston to Room 101 for the final stage of re-education. The room contains each prisoner's worst fear, in Winston's case rats. As a wire cage holding hungry rats is fitted onto his face, Winston shouts \"Do it to Julia!\", thus betraying her. After being released, Winston meets Julia in a park. She says that she was also tortured, and both reveal betraying the other. Winston realizes that he and Julia no longer feel for one another and that the Party has even managed to take away their love. Later, Winston sits alone in a café as Oceania celebrates a supposed victory over Eurasian armies in Africa, and, successfully brainwashed, realizes that \"He loved Big Brother.\"\n\n\n\nWhether these characters are real or fabrications of Party propaganda is something that neither Winston nor the reader is permitted to know:\n\nIngsoc (English Socialism) is the predominant ideology and pseudophilosophy of Oceania, and Newspeak is the official language of official documents.\n\nIn London, the capital city of Airstrip One, Oceania's four government ministries are in pyramids (300 m high), the façades of which display the Party's three slogans. The ministries' names are the opposite (doublethink) of their true functions: \"The Ministry of Peace concerns itself with war, the Ministry of Truth with lies, the Ministry of Love with torture and the Ministry of Plenty with starvation.\" (Part II, Chapter IX – \"The Theory and Practice of Oligarchical Collectivism\")\n\nThe Ministry of Peace supports Oceania's perpetual war against either of the two other superstates:\nThe primary aim of modern warfare (in accordance with the principles of doublethink, this aim is simultaneously recognized and not recognized by the directing brains of the Inner Party) is to use up the products of the machine without raising the general standard of living. Ever since the end of the nineteenth century, the problem of what to do with the surplus of consumption goods has been latent in industrial society. At present, when few human beings even have enough to eat, this problem is obviously not urgent, and it might not have become so, even if no artificial processes of destruction had been at work.\n\nThe Ministry of Plenty rations and controls food, goods, and domestic production; every fiscal quarter, it publishes false claims of having raised the standard of living, when it has, in fact, reduced rations, availability, and production. The Ministry of Truth substantiates the Ministry of Plenty's claims by revising historical records to report numbers supporting the current, \"increased rations\".\n\nThe Ministry of Truth controls information: news, entertainment, education, and the arts. Winston Smith works in the Minitrue RecDep (Records Department), \"rectifying\" historical records to concord with Big Brother's current pronouncements so that everything the Party says is true.\n\nThe Ministry of Love identifies, monitors, arrests, and converts real and imagined dissidents. In Winston's experience, the dissident is beaten and tortured, and, when near-broken, he is sent to Room 101 to face \"the worst thing in the world\"—until love for Big Brother and the Party replaces dissension.\n\nThree perpetually warring totalitarian super-states control the world:\n\nThe perpetual war is fought for control of the \"disputed area\" lying \"between the frontiers of the super-states\", which forms \"a rough parallelogram with its corners at Tangier, Brazzaville, Darwin and Hong Kong\", and Northern Africa, the Middle East, India and Indonesia are where the superstates capture and use slave labour. Fighting also takes place between Eurasia and Eastasia in Manchuria, Mongolia and Central Asia, and all three powers battle one another over various Atlantic and Pacific islands.\n\nGoldstein's book, \"The Theory and Practice of Oligarchical Collectivism\", explains that the superstates' ideologies are alike and that the public's ignorance of this fact is imperative so that they might continue believing in the detestability of the opposing ideologies. The only references to the exterior world for the Oceanian citizenry (the Outer Party and the Proles) are Ministry of Truth maps and propaganda to ensure their belief in \"the war\".\n\nWinston Smith's memory and Emmanuel Goldstein's book communicate some of the history that precipitated the Revolution. Eurasia was formed when the Soviet Union conquered Continental Europe, creating a single state stretching from Portugal to the Bering Strait. Eurasia does not include the British Isles because the United States annexed them along with the rest of the British Empire and Latin America, thus establishing Oceania and gaining control over a quarter of the planet. Eastasia, the last superstate established, emerged only after \"a decade of confused fighting\". It includes the Asian lands conquered by China and Japan. Although Eastasia is prevented from matching Eurasia's size, its larger populace compensates for that handicap.\n\nThe annexation of Britain occurred about the same time as the atomic war that provoked civil war, but who fought whom in the war is left unclear. Nuclear weapons fell on Britain; an atomic bombing of Colchester is referenced in the text. Exactly how Ingsoc and its rival systems (Neo-Bolshevism and Death Worship) gained power in their respective countries is also unclear.\n\nWhile the precise chronology cannot be traced, most of the global societal reorganization occurred between 1945 and the early 1960s. Winston and Julia once meet in the ruins of a church that was destroyed in a nuclear attack \"thirty years\" earlier, which suggests 1954 as the year of the atomic war that destabilised society and allowed the Party to seize power. It is stated in the novel that the \"fourth quarter of 1983\" was \"also the sixth quarter of the Ninth Three-Year Plan\", which implies that the first quarter of the first three-year plan began in July 1958. By then, the Party was apparently in control of Oceania.\n\nIn 1984, there is a perpetual war between Oceania, Eurasia and Eastasia, the superstates that emerged from the global atomic war. \"The Theory and Practice of Oligarchical Collectivism\", by Emmanuel Goldstein, explains that each state is so strong it cannot be defeated, even with the combined forces of two superstates, despite changing alliances. To hide such contradictions, history is rewritten to explain that the (new) alliance always was so; the populaces are accustomed to doublethink and accept it. The war is not fought in Oceanian, Eurasian or Eastasian territory but in the Arctic wastes and in a disputed zone comprising the sea and land from Tangiers (Northern Africa) to Darwin (Australia). At the start, Oceania and Eastasia are allies fighting Eurasia in northern Africa and the Malabar Coast.\n\nThat alliance ends and Oceania, allied with Eurasia, fights Eastasia, a change occurring on Hate Week, dedicated to creating patriotic fervour for the Party's perpetual war. The public are blind to the change; in mid-sentence, an orator changes the name of the enemy from \"Eurasia\" to \"Eastasia\" without pause. When the public are enraged at noticing that the wrong flags and posters are displayed, they tear them down; the Party later claims to have captured Africa.\n\nGoldstein's book explains that the purpose of the unwinnable, perpetual war is to consume human labour and commodities so that the economy of a superstate cannot support economic equality, with a high standard of life for every citizen. By using up most of the produced objects like boots and rations, the proles are kept poor and uneducated and will neither realise what the government is doing nor rebel. Goldstein also details an Oceanian strategy of attacking enemy cities with atomic rockets before invasion but dismisses it as unfeasible and contrary to the war's purpose; despite the atomic bombing of cities in the 1950s, the superstates stopped it for fear that would imbalance the powers. The military technology in the novel differs little from that of World War II, but strategic bomber aeroplanes are replaced with rocket bombs, helicopters were heavily used as weapons of war (they did not figure in World War II in any form but prototypes) and surface combat units have been all but replaced by immense and unsinkable Floating Fortresses, island-like contraptions concentrating the firepower of a whole naval task force in a single, semi-mobile platform (in the novel, one is said to have been anchored between Iceland and the Faroe Islands, suggesting a preference for sea lane interdiction and denial).\n\nThe society of Airstrip One and, according to \"The Book\", almost the whole world, lives in poverty: hunger, disease and filth are the norms. Ruined cities and towns are common: the consequence of the civil war, the atomic wars and the purportedly enemy (but possibly false flag) rockets. Social decay and wrecked buildings surround Winston; aside from the ministerial pyramids, little of London was rebuilt. Members of the Outer Party consume synthetic foodstuffs and poor-quality \"luxuries\" such as oily gin and loosely-packed cigarettes, distributed under the \"Victory\" brand. (That is a parody of the low-quality Indian-made \"Victory\" cigarettes, widely smoked in Britain and by British soldiers during World War II. They were smoked because it was easier to import them from India than it was to import American cigarettes from across the Atlantic because of the War of the Atlantic.)\n\nWinston describes something as simple as the repair of a broken pane of glass as requiring committee approval that can take several years and so most of those living in one of the blocks usually do the repairs themselves (Winston himself is called in by Mrs. Parsons to repair her blocked sink). All Outer Party residences include telescreens that serve both as outlets for propaganda and to monitor the Party members; they can be turned down, but they cannot be turned off.\n\nIn contrast to their subordinates, the Inner Party upper class of Oceanian society reside in clean and comfortable flats in their own quarter of the city, with pantries well-stocked with foodstuffs such as wine, coffee and sugar, all denied to the general populace. Winston is astonished that the lifts in O'Brien's building work, the telescreens can be switched off and O'Brien has an Asian manservant, Martin. All members of the Inner Party are attended to by slaves captured in the disputed zone, and \"The Book\" suggests that many have their own motorcars or even helicopters. Nonetheless, \"The Book\" makes clear that even the conditions enjoyed by the Inner Party are only \"relatively\" comfortable, and standards would be regarded as austere by those of the prerevolutionary élite.\n\nThe proles live in poverty and are kept sedated with alcohol, pornography and a national lottery whose winnings are never actually paid out; that is obscured by propaganda and the lack of communication within Oceania. At the same time, the proles are freer and less intimidated than the middle-class Outer Party: they are subject to certain levels of monitoring but are not expected to be particularly patriotic. They lack telescreens in their own homes and often jeer at the telescreens that they see. \"The Book\" indicates that is because the middle class, not the lower class, traditionally starts revolutions. The model demands tight control of the middle class, with ambitious Outer-Party members neutralised via promotion to the Inner Party or \"reintegration\" by the Ministry of Love, and proles can be allowed intellectual freedom because they lack intellect. Winston nonetheless believes that \"the future belonged to the proles\".\n\nThe standard of living of the populace is low overall. Consumer goods are scarce, and all those available through official channels are of low quality; for instance, despite the Party regularly reporting increased boot production, more than half of the Oceanian populace goes barefoot. The Party claims that poverty is a necessary sacrifice for the war effort, and \"The Book\" confirms that to be partially correct since the purpose of perpetual war consumes surplus industrial production. Outer Party members and proles occasionally gain access to better items in the market, which deals in goods that were pilfered from the residences of the Inner Party.\n\n\"Nineteen Eighty-Four\" expands upon the subjects summarised in Orwell's essay \"Notes on Nationalism\" about the lack of vocabulary needed to explain the unrecognised phenomena behind certain political forces. In \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\", the Party's artificial, minimalist language 'Newspeak' addresses the matter.\n\nO'Brien concludes: \"The object of persecution is persecution. The object of torture is torture. The object of power is power.\"\n\nIn the book, Inner Party member O'Brien describes the Party's vision of the future: \n\nA major theme of \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\" is censorship, especially in the Ministry of Truth, where photographs are modified and public archives rewritten to rid them of \"unpersons\" (persons who are erased from history by the Party). On the telescreens, figures for all types of production are grossly exaggerated or simply invented to indicate an ever-growing economy, when the reality is the opposite. One small example of the endless censorship is Winston being charged with the task of eliminating a reference to an unperson in a newspaper article. He proceeds to write an article about Comrade Ogilvy, a made-up party member who displayed great heroism by leaping into the sea from a helicopter so that the dispatches he was carrying would not fall into enemy hands.\n\nThe inhabitants of Oceania, particularly the Outer Party members, have no real privacy. Many of them live in apartments equipped with two-way telescreens so that they may be watched or listened to at any time. Similar telescreens are found at workstations and in public places, along with hidden microphones. Written correspondence is routinely opened and read by the government before it is delivered. The Thought Police employ undercover agents, who pose as normal citizens and report any person with subversive tendencies. Children are encouraged to report suspicious persons to the government, and some denounce their parents. Citizens are controlled, and the smallest sign of rebellion, even something so small as a facial expression, can result in immediate arrest and imprisonment. Thus, citizens, particularly party members, are compelled to obedience.\n\n\"The Principles of Newspeak\" is an academic essay appended to the novel. It describes the development of Newspeak, the Party's minimalist artificial language meant to ideologically align thought and action with the principles of Ingsoc by making \"all other modes of thought impossible\". (A linguistic theory about how language may direct thought is the Sapir–Whorf hypothesis.)\n\nWhether or not the Newspeak appendix implies a hopeful end to \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\" remains a critical debate, as it is in Standard English and refers to Newspeak, Ingsoc, the Party etc., in the past tense: \"Relative to our own, the Newspeak vocabulary was tiny, and new ways of reducing it were constantly being devised\" p. 422). Some critics (Atwood, Benstead, Milner, Pynchon) claim that for the essay's author, both Newspeak and the totalitarian government are in the past.\n\n\"Nineteen Eighty-Four\" uses themes from life in the Soviet Union and wartime life in Great Britain as sources for many of its motifs. Some time at an unspecified date after the first American publication of the book, producer Sidney Sheldon wrote to Orwell interested in adapting the novel to the Broadway stage. Orwell sold the American stage rights to Sheldon, explaining that his basic goal with \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\" was imagining the consequences of Stalinist government ruling British society:\n[\"Nineteen Eighty-Four\"] was based chiefly on communism, because that is the dominant form of totalitarianism, but I was trying chiefly to imagine what communism would be like if it were firmly rooted in the English speaking countries, and was no longer a mere extension of the Russian Foreign Office.\n\nThe statement \"2 + 2 = 5\", used to torment Winston Smith during his interrogation, was a communist party slogan from the second five-year plan, which encouraged fulfillment of the five-year plan in four years. The slogan was seen in electric lights on Moscow house-fronts, billboards and elsewhere.\n\nThe switch of Oceania's allegiance from Eastasia to Eurasia and the subsequent rewriting of history (\"Oceania was at war with Eastasia: Oceania had always been at war with Eastasia. A large part of the political literature of five years was now completely obsolete\"; ch 9) is evocative of the Soviet Union's changing relations with Nazi Germany. The two nations were open and frequently vehement critics of each other until the signing of the 1939 Treaty of Non-Aggression. Thereafter, and continuing until the Nazi invasion of the Soviet Union in 1941, no criticism of Germany was allowed in the Soviet press, and all references to prior party lines stopped—including in the majority of non-Russian communist parties who tended to follow the Russian line. Orwell had criticised the Communist Party of Great Britain for supporting the Treaty in his essays for \"Betrayal of the Left\" (1941). \"The Hitler-Stalin pact of August 1939 reversed the Soviet Union's stated foreign policy. It was too much for many of the fellow-travellers like Gollancz [Orwell's sometime publisher] who had put their faith in a strategy of construction Popular Front governments and the peace bloc between Russia, Britain and France.\"\n\nThe description of Emmanuel Goldstein, with a \"small, goatee beard\", evokes the image of Leon Trotsky. The film of Goldstein during the Two Minutes Hate is described as showing him being transformed into a bleating sheep. This image was used in a propaganda film during the Kino-eye period of Soviet film, which showed Trotsky transforming into a goat. Goldstein's book is similar to Trotsky's highly critical analysis of the USSR, \"The Revolution Betrayed\", published in 1936.\n\nThe omnipresent images of Big Brother, a man described as having a moustache, bears resemblance to the cult of personality built up around Joseph Stalin.\n\nThe news in Oceania emphasised production figures, just as it did in the Soviet Union, where record-setting in factories (by \"Heroes of Socialist Labor\") was especially glorified. The best known of these was Alexey Stakhanov, who purportedly set a record for coal mining in 1935.\n\nThe tortures of the Ministry of Love evoke the procedures used by the NKVD in their interrogations, including the use of rubber truncheons, being forbidden to put your hands in your pockets, remaining in brightly lit rooms for days, torture through the use of their greatest fear, and the victim being shown a mirror after their physical collapse.\n\nThe random bombing of Airstrip One is based on the Buzz bombs and the V-2 rocket, which struck England at random in 1944–1945.\n\nThe Thought Police is based on the NKVD, which arrested people for random \"anti-soviet\" remarks. The Thought Crime motif is drawn from Kempeitai, the Japanese wartime secret police, who arrested people for \"unpatriotic\" thoughts.\n\nThe confessions of the \"Thought Criminals\" Rutherford, Aaronson and Jones are based on the show trials of the 1930s, which included fabricated confessions by prominent Bolsheviks Nikolai Bukharin, Grigory Zinoviev and Lev Kamenev to the effect that they were being paid by the Nazi government to undermine the Soviet regime under Leon Trotsky's direction.\n\nThe song \"Under the Spreading Chestnut Tree\" (\"Under the spreading chestnut tree, I sold you, and you sold me\") was based on an old English song called \"Go no more a-rushing\" (\"Under the spreading chestnut tree, Where I knelt upon my knee, We were as happy as could be, 'Neath the spreading chestnut tree.\"). The song was published as early as 1891. The song was a popular camp song in the 1920s, sung with corresponding movements (like touching your chest when you sing \"chest\", and touching your head when you sing \"nut\"). Glenn Miller recorded the song in 1939.\n\nThe \"Hates\" (Two Minutes Hate and Hate Week) were inspired by the constant rallies sponsored by party organs throughout the Stalinist period. These were often short pep-talks given to workers before their shifts began (Two Minutes Hate), but could also last for days, as in the annual celebrations of the anniversary of the October revolution (Hate Week).\n\nOrwell fictionalized \"newspeak\", \"doublethink\", and \"Ministry of Truth\" as evinced by both the Soviet press and that of Nazi Germany. In particular, he adapted Soviet ideological discourse constructed to ensure that public statements could not be questioned.\nWinston Smith's job, \"revising history\" (and the \"unperson\" motif) are based on the Stalinist habit of airbrushing images of 'fallen' people from group photographs and removing references to them in books and newspapers. In one well-known example, the Soviet encyclopaedia had an article about Lavrentiy Beria. When he fell in 1953, and was subsequently executed, institutes that had the encyclopaedia were sent an article about the Bering Strait, with instructions to paste it over the article about Beria.\n\nBig Brother's \"Orders of the Day\" were inspired by Stalin's regular wartime orders, called by the same name. A small collection of the more political of these have been published (together with his wartime speeches) in English as \"On the Great Patriotic War of the Soviet Union\" By Joseph Stalin. Like Big Brother's Orders of the day, Stalin's frequently lauded heroic individuals, like Comrade Ogilvy, the fictitious hero Winston Smith invented to 'rectify' (fabricate) a Big Brother Order of the day.\n\nThe Ingsoc slogan \"Our new, happy life\", repeated from telescreens, evokes Stalin's 1935 statement, which became a CPSU slogan, \"Life has become better, Comrades; life has become more cheerful.\"\n\nIn 1940 Argentine writer Jorge Luis Borges published Tlön, Uqbar, Orbis Tertius which described the invention by a \"benevolent secret society\" of a world that would seek to remake human language and reality along human-invented lines. The story concludes with an appendix describing the success of the project. Borges' story addresses similar themes of epistemology, language and history to 1984.\n\nDuring World War II, Orwell believed that British democracy as it existed before 1939 would not survive the war. The question being \"Would it end via Fascist \"coup d'état\" from above or via Socialist revolution from below\"? Later, he admitted that events proved him wrong: \"What really matters is that I fell into the trap of assuming that 'the war and the revolution are inseparable'.\"\n\n\"Nineteen Eighty-Four\" (1949) and \"Animal Farm\" (1945) share themes of the betrayed revolution, the person's subordination to the collective, rigorously enforced class distinctions (Inner Party, Outer Party, Proles), the cult of personality, concentration camps, Thought Police, compulsory regimented daily exercise, and youth leagues. Oceania resulted from the US annexation of the British Empire to counter the Asian peril to Australia and New Zealand. It is a naval power whose militarism venerates the sailors of the floating fortresses, from which battle is given to recapturing India, the \"Jewel in the Crown\" of the British Empire. Much of Oceanic society is based upon the USSR under Joseph Stalin—Big Brother. The televised Two Minutes Hate is ritual demonisation of the enemies of the State, especially Emmanuel Goldstein (\"viz\" Leon Trotsky). Altered photographs and newspaper articles create unpersons deleted from the national historical record, including even founding members of the regime (Jones, Aaronson and Rutherford) in the 1960s purges (\"viz\" the Soviet Purges of the 1930s, in which leaders of the Bolshevik Revolution were similarly treated). A similar thing also happened during the French Revolution in which many of the original leaders of the Revolution were later put to death, for example Danton who was put to death by Robespierre, and then later Robespierre himself met the same fate.\n\nIn his 1946 essay \"Why I Write\", Orwell explains that the serious works he wrote since the Spanish Civil War (1936–39) were \"written, directly or indirectly, against totalitarianism and for democratic socialism\". \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\" is a cautionary tale about revolution betrayed by totalitarian defenders previously proposed in \"Homage to Catalonia\" (1938) and \"Animal Farm\" (1945), while \"Coming Up for Air\" (1939) celebrates the personal and political freedoms lost in \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\" (1949). Biographer Michael Shelden notes Orwell's Edwardian childhood at Henley-on-Thames as the golden country; being bullied at St Cyprian's School as his empathy with victims; his life in the Indian Imperial Police in Burma and the techniques of violence and censorship in the BBC as capricious authority.\n\nOther influences include \"Darkness at Noon\" (1940) and \"The Yogi and the Commissar\" (1945) by Arthur Koestler; \"The Iron Heel \"(1908) by Jack London; \"1920: Dips into the Near Future\" by John A. Hobson; \"Brave New World\" (1932) by Aldous Huxley; \"We\" (1921) by Yevgeny Zamyatin which he reviewed in 1946; and \"The Managerial Revolution\" (1940) by James Burnham predicting perpetual war among three totalitarian superstates. Orwell told Jacintha Buddicom that he would write a novel stylistically like \"A Modern Utopia\" (1905) by H. G. Wells. \n\nExtrapolating from World War II, the novel's pastiche parallels the politics and rhetoric at war's end—the changed alliances at the \"Cold War's\" (1945–91) beginning; the Ministry of Truth derives from the BBC's overseas service, controlled by the Ministry of Information; Room 101 derives from a conference room at BBC Broadcasting House; the Senate House of the University of London, containing the Ministry of Information is the architectural inspiration for the Minitrue; the post-war decrepitude derives from the socio-political life of the UK and the US, i.e., the impoverished Britain of 1948 losing its Empire despite newspaper-reported imperial triumph; and war ally but peace-time foe, Soviet Russia became Eurasia.\n\nThe term \"English Socialism\" has precedents in his wartime writings; in the essay \"\" (1941), he said that \"the war and the revolution are inseparable... the fact that we are at war has turned Socialism from a textbook word into a realisable policy\" – because Britain's superannuated social class system hindered the war effort and only a socialist economy would defeat Adolf Hitler. Given the middle class's grasping this, they too would abide socialist revolution and that only reactionary Britons would oppose it, thus limiting the force revolutionaries would need to take power. An English Socialism would come about which \"will never lose touch with the tradition of compromise and the belief in a law that is above the State. It will shoot traitors, but it will give them a solemn trial beforehand and occasionally it will acquit them. It will crush any open revolt promptly and cruelly, but it will interfere very little with the spoken and written word.\"\n\nIn the world of \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\", \"English Socialism\" (or \"Ingsoc\" in Newspeak) is a totalitarian ideology unlike the English revolution he foresaw. Comparison of the wartime essay \"The Lion and the Unicorn\" with \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\" shows that he perceived a Big Brother regime as a perversion of his cherished socialist ideals and English Socialism. Thus Oceania is a corruption of the British Empire he believed would evolve \"into a federation of Socialist states, like a looser and freer version of the Union of Soviet Republics\".\n\nWhen it was first published, \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\" received critical acclaim. V. S. Pritchett, reviewing the novel for the \"New Statesman\" stated: \"I do not think I have ever read a novel more frightening and depressing; and yet, such are the originality, the suspense, the speed of writing and withering indignation that it is impossible to put the book down.\" P. H. Newby, reviewing \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\" for \"The Listener\" magazine, described it as \"the most arresting political novel written by an Englishman since Rex Warner's \"The Aerodrome.\"\" \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\" was also praised by Bertrand Russell, E. M. Forster and Harold Nicolson. On the other hand, Edward Shanks, reviewing \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\" for \"The Sunday Times\", was dismissive; Shanks claimed \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\" \"breaks all records for gloomy vaticination\". C. S. Lewis was also critical of the novel, claiming that the relationship of Julia and Winston, and especially the Party's view on sex, lacked credibility, and that the setting was \"odious rather than tragic\".\n\n\"Nineteen Eighty-Four\" has been adapted for the cinema, radio, television and theatre at least twice each, as well as for other art media, such as ballet and opera.\n\nThe effect of \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\" on the English language is extensive; the concepts of Big Brother, Room 101, the Thought Police, thoughtcrime, unperson, memory hole (oblivion), doublethink (simultaneously holding and believing contradictory beliefs) and Newspeak (ideological language) have become common phrases for denoting totalitarian authority. Doublespeak and groupthink are both deliberate elaborations of \"doublethink\", and the adjective \"Orwellian\" means similar to Orwell's writings, especially \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\". The practice of ending words with (such as \"mediaspeak\") is drawn from the novel. Orwell is perpetually associated with 1984; in July 1984, an asteroid was discovered by Antonín Mrkos and named after Orwell.\n\n\nReferences to the themes, concepts and plot of \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\" have appeared frequently in other works, especially in popular music and video entertainment. An example is the worldwide hit reality television show \"Big Brother\", in which a group of people live together in a large house, isolated from the outside world but continuously watched by television cameras.\n\n\nThe book touches on the invasion of privacy and ubiquitous surveillance. From mid-2013 it was publicized that the NSA has been secretly monitoring and storing global internet traffic, including the bulk data collection of email and phone call data. Sales of \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\" increased by up to seven times within the first week of the 2013 mass surveillance leaks. The book again topped the Amazon.com sales charts in 2017 after a controversy involving Kellyanne Conway using the phrase \"alternative facts\" to explain discrepancies with the media.\n\nThe book also shows mass media as a catalyst for the intensification of destructive emotions and violence. Since the 20th century, news and other forms of media have been publicizing violence more often. In 2013, Nottingham Playhouse, the Almeida Theatre and Headlong staged a successful new adaptation (by Robert Icke and Duncan Macmillan), which twice toured the UK and played an extended run in London's West End. The play opened on Broadway in 2017.\n\nIn the decades since the publication of \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\", there have been numerous comparisons to Aldous Huxley's novel \"Brave New World\", which had been published 17 years earlier, in 1932. They are both predictions of societies dominated by a central government and are both based on extensions of the trends of their times. However, members of the ruling class of \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\" use brutal force, torture and mind control to keep individuals in line, while rulers in \"Brave New World\" keep the citizens in line by addictive drugs and pleasurable distractions.\n\nIn October 1949, after reading \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\", Huxley sent a letter to Orwell and wrote that it would be more efficient for rulers to stay in power by the softer touch by allowing citizens to self-seek pleasure to control them rather than brute force and to allow a false sense of freedom:\n\nElements of both novels can be seen in modern-day societies, with Huxley's vision being more dominant in the West and Orwell's vision more prevalent with dictators in ex-communist countries, as is pointed out in essays that compare the two novels, including Huxley's own \"Brave New World Revisited\".\n\nComparisons with other dystopian novels like \"The Handmaid's Tale\", \"Virtual Light\", \"The Private Eye\" and \"The Children of Men\" have also been drawn.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29024768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29024768", "title": "No Pressure (film)", "text": "No Pressure (film)\n\nNo Pressure is a 2010 short film produced by the global warming mitigation campaign , written by Richard Curtis and Franny Armstrong, and directed by Dougal Wilson. Intended for cinema and television advertisements, \"No Pressure\" is composed of scenes in which a variety of men, women and children in every-day situations are graphically blown to pieces for failing to be sufficiently enthusiastic about the 10:10 campaign to reduce CO emissions. The film's makers said that they viewed \"No Pressure\" as \"a funny and satirical tongue-in-cheek little film in the over-the-top style of Monty Python or South Park\". Before its release, \"The Guardian\" described it as \"attention-grabbing\" and \"pretty edgy.\"\n\nThe film was withdrawn from public circulation by 10:10, on the same day it was released, due to negative publicity. Charities that had backed the film stated they were \"absolutely appalled\" upon seeing it, and several of 10:10's corporate and strategic partners withdrew from partnership.\n\nThe film was made in an attempt to challenge the \"no pressure\" attitude often displayed both by governments and individuals towards taking real action on climate change. 10:10 highlighted the urgency of action with claims that carbon dioxide emissions must be stabilised by 2014 (within four years) in order to avoid disaster, and that \"300,000 real people\" are already killed by climate change annually. Lizzie Gillet, 10:10 global campaign director, explained: \"With climate change becoming increasingly threatening, and decreasingly talked about in the media, we wanted to find a way to bring this critical issue back into the headlines while making people laugh. We were therefore delighted when Richard Curtis agreed to write a short film for the 10:10 campaign\".\n\nThe film was shot on a location at Camden School for Girls, in the London Borough of Camden in North London. According to 10:10, over 50 film professionals and more than 40 actors and extras provided their services at no cost.\n\nThe four-minute film consists of a series of short scenes in which groups of people are asked if they are interested in participating in the 10:10 project to reduce carbon emissions. Those failing to show enthusiasm for the cause are gruesomely blown to pieces.\n\nIn the first scene, a bright and chirpy schoolteacher, played by Lyndsey Marshal, tells her class about the 10:10 campaign, and asks what they are doing to reduce their carbon footprint. She asks which students are planning to participate; most raise their hands, but two children shrug apathetically. The teacher reassures them that this is \"fine, it's absolutely fine, it's your choice\" and there is \"no pressure\", but then shifts the papers on her desk to reveal a red-buttoned detonator, which she presses. The two children who did not want to participate explode, covering their screaming classmates with blood and body parts. The blood-spattered teacher then goes on casually to explain the night's homework to her horrified charges.\n\nThe second scene shows a group of white-collar workers in an office meeting. The office manager similarly explains the purpose of the 10:10 campaign, and asks who will be participating. While most raise their hands, four raise their hands unconvinced. The manager reassures them that there is \"no pressure\" to participate, but he is then handed a detonator by an assistant, which he uses to blow up the four workers, splattering appalled co-workers with gore.\n\nThe third scene is set on a football pitch during team training. The coach, played by David Ginola, asks the players to explain the 10:10 campaign that the team is participating in. They describe a range of energy-saving measures which have been implemented by the team and its fans. However, the coach remains unmoved, remarking the campaign would distract him from football. A player tells him that there's \"no pressure\", produces a detonator and blows him up. Unlike the witnesses depicted in previous scenes, the team is not at all surprised, and casually jogs away to resume training.\n\nA brief interlude with captions explains the campaign, accompanied by music from Radiohead. In the final scene, the actress Gillian Anderson is finishing the voice-over for the interlude just seen. The sound engineer asks her what she is planning to do to cut her carbon footprint. Anderson irritably remarks that she thought providing the recording was a sufficient contribution. The sound engineer repeats the film's catchphrase, \"no pressure\", and detonates Anderson before picking up to leave. The film ends with a shot of Anderson's gory remains sliding down the sound-booth window with the text \"Cut your carbon by 10%. No pressure.\"\n\nUpon its release, \"No Pressure\" provoked an immediate negative reaction in the media, and the resulting controversy became widely referred to as \"splattergate\" by bloggers.\n\nIn \"The Daily Telegraph\", James Delingpole wrote that the film was an \"ugly, counterproductive eco-propaganda movie\" and that \"with \"No Pressure\", the environmental movement has revealed the snarling, wicked, homicidal misanthropy beneath its cloak of gentle, bunny-hugging righteousness\". The ConservativeHome website described it as \"crass, tasteless and unfunny as it gets\", while Melanie Phillips in \"The Spectator\" commented on the intended humorous aspect of the film by writing that \"The joke was only about blowing dissenters to bits and raining their flesh down on terrified people. Because exterminating human beings is acceptable to greens as a joke. From which we can only assume at best indifference towards and at worst a profound loathing of the human condition\".\n\nAmerican environmentalist and writer Bill McKibben lamented the film on the Climate Progress website, where he wrote \"The climate skeptics can crow. It's the kind of stupidity that hurts our side, reinforcing in people's minds a series of preconceived notions, not the least of which is that we're out-of-control and out of touch—not to mention off the wall, and also with completely misplaced sense of humor\". McKibben added \"There's no question that crap like this will cast a shadow, for a time, over our efforts and everyone else who's working on global warming. McKibben subsequently withdrew as an organisational partner of 10:10. When \"The Daily Caller\" asked about the film, environmental organisation Greenpeace spokeswoman Jane Kochersperger stated that \"as an organisation committed to non-violence, I think you can imagine how Greenpeace views this material. At this time, the only people promoting the material are climate skeptics and think tanks funded by corporations known for lobbying against climate change legislation\". Five other environmental groups contacted by \"The Daily Caller\" did not comment on the film.\n\nIn \"The Independent\", Dominic Lawson wrote \"As often as 10:10 tried to pull the film off YouTube, their critics re-posted it. This, at least, proves what a cataclysmic misjudgement Curtis had made. When you try to satirise the critics of your campaign, and it turns out that those very critics embrace your film as demonstrating exactly what they find unbearable about the climate-obsessed eco-lobby, then you know that you have kicked the ball into your own net\".\n\nThe film generated a huge reaction in the blogosphere. One comment to \"The Guardian\" read: \"To suggest that people who disagree with you deserve to die is incredibly stupid. Imagine if some Christian group in the US did that to gays, Muslims or anyone else they disagree with. The outrage would be palpable. And deserved.\"\n\n\"The Guardian\", which was a key collaborator with the 10:10 campaign since its launch and got exclusive rights to show the film première, responded to the criticism by stating that \"the film may have been somewhat tasteless, but it was an imaginative attempt to challenge public apathy over climate change\". This statement originally ended \"and, highly unusually for attempts to communicate about this subject, funny too\", but this was later redacted. A later report in the newspaper by Adam Vaughan said that the film, \"intended as a tongue-in-cheek spoof of hectoring greens\", had created a huge amount of global coverage for 10:10, in print and on the web. The report said that while many people had found the film hilarious, there was a \"predictable slating from climate sceptics\" as well as furious reactions from some environmentalists. The report also went on to describe other, more reflective responses, which had focused on effective communication, psychology, satire, and ways of engaging with various audiences over climate change.\n\nAlthough originally planned to be shown in cinema and television advertisements, 10:10 removed the film from their website and YouTube later on 1 October 2010. On Friday 2 October, 10:10 placed a notice on their website saying, \"Many people found the resulting film extremely funny, but unfortunately some didn't and we sincerely apologise to anybody we have offended. [...] At 10:10 we're all about trying new and creative ways of getting people to take action on climate change. Unfortunately in this instance we missed the mark. Oh well, we live and learn.\" This was criticised as a non-apology apology by Michelle Malkin in the Litchfield County \"Register\" and Andrew Revkin in an opinion piece in the \"New York Times\". A spokesman for 10:10 also denied that the withdrawal had been planned from the beginning in order to generate publicity. After removing the video from YouTube, 10:10 issued a statement: \"We won't be making any attempt to censor or remove other versions currently in circulation on the internet\". Then, on Monday 5 October 10:10 director Eugenie Harvey issued a second, more comprehensive apology, stating: \"We are... sorry to our corporate sponsors, delivery partners and board members, who have been implicated in this situation despite having no involvement in the film's production or release.\"\n\nActionAid, a charity which co-ordinates a schools programme with 10:10, approved the decision to withdraw the film, and stated \"Our job is to encourage proactive decisions at class level to reduce carbon emissions. We did it because evidence shows children are deeply concerned about climate change and because we see the impacts of it in the developing world where a lot of our work is. So we think the 10:10 campaign is very important, but the moment this film was seen it was clear it was inappropriate.\"\n\nIn the wake of the film's withdrawal, Richard Curtis admitted that the attempt to draw attention to the cause of lowering emissions may have backfired. Curtis said \"When you try to be funny on a serious subject, it's obviously risky. I hope people who don't like the little film will still think about the big issue and try to do something about it.\"\n\nSeveral sponsors withdrew their support of 10:10 as a result of the \"No Pressure\" film. Nick Sharples, Sony Europe's Director of Communications, issued a statement saying, \"we strongly condemn the \"No Pressure\" video which was conceived, produced and released by 10:10 entirely without the knowledge or involvement of Sony\", and cutting ties with 10:10: \"As a result we have taken the decision to disassociate ourselves from 10:10 at this time\". Kyocera and Eaga were removed from the list of 10:10 sponsors, and National Magazine Company was removed from the list of 10:10 media partners. At the same time, a spokesman for O2, a partner of 10:10, refused to disassociate itself from the group: \"10:10 is an independent organisation and we don't ask for editorial control over the content of its campaigns.\"\n350.org, with whom 10:10 had been collaborating on the 10 October 2010 day of action, broke all current and future relations with 10:10. In a press release, they said: \"We respect 10:10's previous work to encourage companies, schools, and churches to voluntarily cut their carbon emissions 10%. Upon seeing the video, however, we have informed 10:10 that we can no longer remain partners on 10 October 2010 or any other initiative. 350.org maintains an absolute commitment to nonviolence in word and deed\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41580867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41580867", "title": "OII Europe", "text": "OII Europe\n\nFounded in 2012 at the Second International Intersex Forum, Organisation Intersex International - Europe or OII Europe is the first European intersex NGO, and it brings together national and linguistic affiliates from around the European continent.\n\nThe organisation aims to end \"mutilating and 'normalising' practices such as genital surgeries\" and selective abortion on grounds of intersex, and promote the human rights and full citizenship of intersex people. It aims to engage with state and non-governmental actors.\n\nOII Europe registered as an NGO in Germany in September 2015, with an executive board and a steering board. Founder co-chairs were Dan Christian Ghattas and Miriam van der Have. In 2018, Ghattas became executive director, and Kitty Anderson became co-chair in his place. Notable board members also include Kristian Ranđelović.\n\nAlong with ILGA-Europe, the organisation contributed to Resolution 1952 (2013) of the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly, on \"Children's Right to Physical Integrity\", adopted in October 2013. The organisation was described by Council of Europe Rapporteur Marlene Rupprecht as \"Europe’s leading intersex organisation\". The organisation also opposes mandatory classifications of intersex infants to a third classification, arguing that it may increase the likelihood of medical \"normalisation\".\n\nOII Europe has published a guide to \"Standing up for the human rights of intersex people\" in collaboration with ILGA-Europe. It is available in English, French and Turkish. On Intersex Solidarity Day 2016, OII Europe launched a new visibility website, InterVisibility.eu, with material on intersex in 23 European languages. In 2018, OII Europe, IGLYO and the European Parents' Association published a multilingual toolkit for parents on supporting their intersex child.\n\nOII Europe is affiliated to Organisation Intersex International, and a member of the International Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Trans and Intersex Association.\n\n"}
{"id": "2002176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2002176", "title": "Pensioners' Party of Bosnia and Herzegovina", "text": "Pensioners' Party of Bosnia and Herzegovina\n\nThe Pensioners' Party of Bosnia and Herzegovina (\"Stranka Penzionera Umirovljenika BiH\") is a multi-ethnic political party in Bosnia and Herzegovina. \n"}
{"id": "47023468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47023468", "title": "Preservation of Coloured Areas Act, Act No 31 of 1961", "text": "Preservation of Coloured Areas Act, Act No 31 of 1961\n\nThe Preservation of Coloured Areas Act of 1961 was an Apartheid South Africa piece of legislation, which was osstensibly enacted to prevent land in coloured areas from being taken without compensation to the owner even if the owner had not registered his claim. It further entrenched \"Coloured Areas\" in the law.\n\nThis Act further strengthened racial segration legislation of South Africa during the Apartheid regime.\n\nThe Preservation of Coloured Areas Act had the effect of causing mortgaged land to be seized with compensation then paid to a white \"Guardian\" in place of the coloured owner.\n\nThe act was repealed by the Abolition of Racially Based Land Measures Act, 1991 on 30 June 1991.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27212412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27212412", "title": "Prevention of Illegal Squatting Act, 1951", "text": "Prevention of Illegal Squatting Act, 1951\n\nThe Prevention of Illegal Squatting Act, Act No 52 of 1951, formed part of the apartheid system of racial segregation in South Africa. This act authorized the forcible removal of squatting communities. It allowed eviction and destruction of homes of squatters by landowners, local authorities, and government officials. It was commenced on 6 July 1951.\n"}
{"id": "40942718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40942718", "title": "Public relations campaigns of Edward Bernays", "text": "Public relations campaigns of Edward Bernays\n\nThe following is a list of public relations, propaganda, and marketing campaigns orchestrated by Edward Bernays (22 November 1891 – 9 March 1995).\n\nBernays is regarded as the pioneer of public relations. His influence radically changed the persuasion tactics used in campaign advertising and political campaigns.\n\nBernays was the nephew of Sigmund Freud. His early adoption of Freud's psychoanalytic theory was instrumental in defining the goals and strategies of public relations. Freud theorized that people are motivated by unconscious desires. To develop public relations, Bernays synthesized elements of Freud's work with Gustave Le Bon's researches into crowd psychology, and Wilfred Trotter's theories of herd instinct.\n\nIn the 1920s, it was considered taboo for women to smoke in public. George W. Hill, president of the American Tobacco Company, realized that his company was missing a share of the market. He hired Bernays to change the taboo and persuade women to start smoking. Bernays contacted psychoanalyst Abraham Brill to understand the societal perceptions that discouraged women from smoking. Brill told him that for feminists, cigarettes were like \"torches of freedom\" that symbolized their nonconformity and freedom from male oppression. \n\nBernays used this information to build a strategy. He contacted a female friend and asked her to find a group of women to march in the New York City Easter Day parade. He asked her to tell the press that a group of women's rights marchers would light \"Torches of Freedom\". The women lit Lucky Strike cigarettes in front of the eager photographers. The New York Times (1 April 1929) printed: \"Group of Girls Puff at Cigarettes as a Gesture of 'Freedom'\".\n\nIn the 1930s, he attempted to convince women that Lucky Strike cigarettes' forest green pack was the most fashionable color. Letters were written to interior and fashion designers, department stores, and prominent women of society pushing green as the new hot color for the season. Balls, gallery exhibitions, and window displays all featured green after Bernays got through with them. The result was that green did indeed become a very popular color for the 1934 season and Lucky Strike kept their pack color and female clientele intact.\n\nAfter his semi-retirement in the 1960s, he worked with the pro-health anti-smoking lawyer John Banzhaf's group, ASH and supported other anti-smoking campaigns.\n\nBernays helped the Aluminum Company of America (Alcoa) and other special interest groups to convince the American public that water fluoridation was safe and beneficial to human health. This was achieved by using the American Dental Association in a highly successful media campaign.\n\nBernays applied Freud's observations to convince the public, among other things, that bacon and eggs was the true all-American breakfast.\n\nHe called for a focus group to learn why housewives didn't want to buy instant cake mixes. He secured cake mix sales by adding a (symbolic) egg to the list of necessary ingredients.\n\nBernays once engineered a \"pancake breakfast\" with vaudevillians for Calvin Coolidge in what is widely considered one of the first overt publicity stunts for a US president.\n\nBernays's most extreme political propaganda activities were said to be conducted on behalf of the multinational corporation United Fruit Company (renamed Chiquita Brands International in 1984) and the U.S. government to facilitate the successful overthrow (see Operation PBSUCCESS) of the democratically elected president of Guatemala, Colonel Jacobo Arbenz Guzman. Bernays's propaganda (documented in the BBC documentary \"The Century of the Self\"), branding Arbenz as communist, was published in major U.S. media. According to a book review by John Stauber and Sheldon Rampton of Larry Tye's biography of Bernays, \"The Father of Spin: Edward L. Bernays & The Birth of PR\", \"the term 'banana republic' actually originated in reference to United Fruit's domination of corrupt governments in Guatemala and other Central American countries.\"\n\nWhen Venida, a hairnet manufacturer, hired Bernays' services, he started a campaign to convince women to grow their hair longer so they would buy more hairnets. Although the campaign failed to influence many women, it convinced government officials to require hairnets for certain jobs.\n\nBernays worked with Procter & Gamble for Ivory-brand bar soap. The campaign successfully convinced people that Ivory soap was medically superior to other soaps. He also promoted soap through sculpting contests and floating contests because the soap floated better than its competitors'.\n\nIn the 1930s, his Dixie Cup campaign was designed to convince consumers that only disposable cups were sanitary by linking the imagery of the overflowing cup with subliminal images of vaginas and venereal disease.\n\nIn 1920, Bernays successfully hosted the first NAACP convention in Atlanta, Georgia. His campaign was considered successful because there was no violence at the convention. His campaign focused on the important contributions of African-Americans to Whites living in the South. He later received an award from the NAACP for his contribution.\n\nIn October 1929, Bernays was involved in promoting Light's Golden Jubilee. The event, which spanned across several major cities in the U.S., was designed to celebrate the 50th anniversary of Thomas Edison's invention of the light-bulb (though a form of light-bulb had been simultaneously invented by Joseph Swan). The publicity elements of the Jubilee–including the special issuance of a U.S. postage stamp and Edison's \"re-creating\" the invention of the light bulb for a nationwide radio audience – provided evidence of Bernays's love for big ideas and \"ballyhoo\". A follow-up event for the 75th anniversary, produced for television by David O. Selznick, was titled \"Light's Diamond Jubilee\" and broadcast on all four American TV networks on October 24, 1954.\n\nBernays was the publicity director of the 1939 New York World's Fair.\n\nIn 1913, Bernays secured one of his first consulting contracts. American actor Richard Bennett hired him to defend a play that promoted sex education against police interference. Bernays set up a front organization called the Medical Review of Reviews Sociological Fund. Although the organization purported to fight sexually transmitted disease, its sole purpose was to endorse Bennett's play.\n\nIn 1915, to prepare for the Ballets Russes' US tour, Sergei Diaghilev hired Bernays to convince American magazines to publish articles telling readers that ballet is fun to watch.\n\n"}
{"id": "39607027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39607027", "title": "Revolutionary Communist Party of Britain (Marxist–Leninist)", "text": "Revolutionary Communist Party of Britain (Marxist–Leninist)\n\nThe Revolutionary Communist Party of Britain (Marxist–Leninist) (RCPB-ML) is a small British communist political party, previously named the Communist Party of England (CPE-ML) on formation in 1972 until being reorganised in 1979 after rejecting Maoism and aligning with Albania. The party's thinking is based on the politics of Hardial Bains, who travelled the world founding anti-revisionist communist parties.\n\nThe RCPB-ML has its origins in the Sussex University-based English Student Movement, part of the Hardial Bains-inspired tendency known as the Internationalists; and it formed following their Necessity For Change conference in 1967. Renamed the English Communist Movement (Marxist–Leninist) in 1970, the group founded the Communist Party of England (Marxist–Leninist) in March 1972.\n\nLike other Bains-inspired parties, the CPE-ML took the Chinese side in the Sino-Soviet split, thus being endorsed by Albania, allied at the time with Maoist China and opposing both the capitalist West and the Soviet bloc in accordance with the Three Worlds Theory promoted by Beijing. However, during the deterioration in Sino-Albanian relations the CPE-ML increasingly sided with Enver Hoxha, developed party to party relations with the Party of Labour of Albania and renounced China as revisionist.\n\nThe CPE-ML made headlines during its first two years. In May 1973, members of affiliated group, the Birmingham Student Movement, instigated a widely-reported physical attack on Hans Eysenck at the London School of Economics, though Eysenck declined to press charges. In January 1974, four members of the party were found guilty of possession of petrol bombs and assaulting police. At least one member had received a five year sentence for malicious wounding and assault the previous year.\n\nIn 1973, the CPE-ML put forward two candidates in parliamentary by-elections and in 1974 stood in six constituencies in the February general election and eight seats in the October general election. Their highest recorded vote was 612 (1.2%) in Portsmouth South during the second 1974 general election.\n\nIn 1974, the CPE-ML lost around a tenth of its membership following the expulsion of Aravindan Balakrishnan and an associated group accused of \"conspiratorial and splittist activities and social fascist slanders against the Party and the proletarian movement\". The group became the Workers' Institute of Marxism–Leninism–Mao Zedong Thought.\n\nThe party had links with the progressive music milieu in the 1970s, with avant-garde composers such as Cornelius Cardew and Michael Chant being leading members.\n\nThe CPE-ML was renamed the RCPB-ML in 1979. It is closely related to the Communist Party of Canada (Marxist–Leninist) and has good relations with the New Communist Party of Britain (founded 1977). It produces an internet newspaper called \"Workers' Daily Internet Edition\" (\"WDIE\") and has a bookshop in south London named John Buckle Books (named after the RCPB-ML founding general secretary). It has been active in promoting solidarity with North Korea. In 2004, the party declared electoral support for the Respect Coalition, but it now calls for an end to the system that brings parties to power and calls on workers' and peoples' collectives to intervene directly in the political process. The party has a system of collective leadership and its General Secretary is Michael Chant. The party's logo is a black hammer and sickle within a yellow star on a red background.\n\nCornelius Cardew died in 1981, John Buckle in 1983 and Hardial Bains in 1997.\n\nRCPB-ML official Roger Nettleship has stood in several general elections under his own name, including Jarrow in 2005 and South Shields in 2001 and 2010.\n\nThe party supported Brexit in the 2016 referendum.\n\n\nRowe stood as East London Peoples Front and Munro stood as South London Peoples Front.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31624020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31624020", "title": "Saxon Peasants' Revolt", "text": "Saxon Peasants' Revolt\n\nThe Saxon Peasants' Revolt ( or \"kursächsischer Bauernaufstand\") of 1790 was a military conflict between the nobility and the peasants. The hot spots of the insurrection were large areas around Dresden, Leipzig and Zwickau.\n\nThe disputes over hunting rights within gamekeeping reserves established by the nobility initially led to unrest in game in Wehlen, which rapidly spread to other districts (\"Ämter\"). However, the government in Saxony was able to bring these riots under control by early July. The previous harsh winter of 1789/1790 and the drought in 1790, however, increased the potential for conflict. So in the summer of 1790, more and more peasants rebelled against the Saxon state, the revolt being centred on Wechselburg. One of the best known spokesmen for the peasants was Christian Benjamin Geißler, also called \"the Rebel of Liebstadt\" (\"Rebell von Liebstadt\"). By mid-August, the farmers had taken control of fifteen patrimonial court districts, covering an area of 5,000 square kilometres.\n\nThe areas around Stolpen, Dresden, Radeberg, Dippoldiswalde, the two Lusatias and Torgau were now affected by the uprising. The riots took place in a disorganized and very spontaneous manner. Thus, in the area of Königstein and in Upper Lusatia labour was withdrawn. There were even assaults on castles and Saxon military units were disarmed by the peasants. On 23 August in Meissen, 2,000 peasants, armed with flails, clubs and axes, forced the release of imprisoned rebels.\n\nThe main demands of the peasants were the abolition of hunting privileges, the abolition of socage, the prohibition of the conversion of contributions in kind into financial interest by the lords or Saxon district offices. Initially the peasants succeeded in getting the lords to waiver all duties, socage and interest. Some lords were even expelled by their peasants. But a major military operation in September 1790 finally overthrew the rebellion.\n\n"}
{"id": "672941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=672941", "title": "Seventeenth Amendment of the Constitution of Ireland", "text": "Seventeenth Amendment of the Constitution of Ireland\n\nThe Seventeenth Amendment of the Constitution Act 1997 amended the Constitution of Ireland to provide that the confidentiality of meetings of the cabinet would not prevent the High Court from ordering that certain information be disclosed when this was in the public interest. It was approved by referendum on 30 October 1997 and signed into law on 14 November of the same year.\n\nInserted a new subsection in Article 28.4:\n\nThe existing subsection 3º of Article 28.4 was renumbered as subsection 4º.\n\nIn 1992, during the Beef Tribunal, the Supreme Court ruled that, as the constitution stood, the confidentiality of meetings of the Government (the cabinet) was unbreachable and absolute. The court derived its ruling from Article 28.4.2º, which requires that the Government observe the principle of collective responsibility. The purpose of the Seventeenth Amendment was to allow cabinet confidentiality to be relaxed in certain circumstances.\n\nThe amendment was adopted during the Fianna Fáil–Progressive Democrats coalition government led by Bertie Ahern but had been first drafted and suggested by the previous Fine Gael–Labour Party–Democratic Left government led by John Bruton. The amendment, therefore, had the support of all major parties. The referendum occurred on the same day as the 1997 presidential election.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "425740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425740", "title": "Slovenian People's Party", "text": "Slovenian People's Party\n\nThe Slovenian People's Party (, , Slovene abbreviation SLS ) is a conservative, agrarian, and Christian democratic political party in Slovenia. Formed in 1988 under the name of Slovenian Peasant Union as the first democratic political organization in Yugoslavia, it changed its name to Slovenian People's Party in 1992. On 15 April 2000 it merged with the Slovene Christian Democrats to form the SLS+SKD Slovenian People's Party, and changed its name in 2001 to Slovenian People's Party.\n\nSLS won seats in the National Parliament in general elections in Slovenia in the years 1992, 1996, 2000, 2004, 2008, 2011, but missed the parliamentary threshold in 2014. SLS won 6.83% of the vote at the early 2011 Slovenian parliamentary election on 4 December 2011, thus gaining 6 seats in the National Assembly.\nFrom March 2013 to December 2014, Franc Bogovič led SLS. In the 2014 European Parliamentary elections, SLS got their first seat in the European Parliament with Franc Bogovič being elected member of the European Parliament on the NSi and SLS joint-list. SLS lost their seats in the National parliament for the first time in the general elections on 13 July 2014. In the local elections in October 2014, SLS won among all Slovenian political parties in the number of elected mayors. On 6 December 2014, a new leadership was elected at the SLS Congress in Podčetrtek, Slovenia. The new president of the SLS is Marko Zidanšek.\n\nThe Slovenian People's Party was established in May 1988 under the name of Slovenian Peasant Union (\"Slovenska kmečka zveza\") as the first openly non-Communist political organization in Slovenia and Yugoslavia after 1945. The establishment of the Slovenian Peasant Union is frequently considered as one of the crucial events in the Slovenian Spring of 1988. In January 1989, it could register as a party. In the first multi-party election in Slovenia, the Peasant Union ran as a part of the DEMOS coalition and won 11 of the 80 seats in the Slovenian Parliament. The party's name was changed to the current form in 1991, alluding to the pre-war Catholic conservative Slovene People's Party. The renaming of the party caused a controversy with the Slovene Christian Democrats, who considered themselves the official heirs of the pre-war Slovene People's Party, since the Slovene People's Party in exile merged with the Slovene Christian Democrats in 1990.\n\nIn 1992, Marjan Podobnik was elected as president of the party. Under his leadership, the Slovenian People's Party pursued an agrarian, ethnonationalist and corporatist ideology. In 1992, the founder of the Slovenian Peasant Union Ivan Oman left the party and joined the Slovene Christian Democrats, who were then part of the ruling centrist grand coalition.\n\nBetween 1992 and 1996, the Slovene People's Party was, together with the Slovenian National Party, the largest opposition party. Its ideology and policies were marked by a populist shift. In late 1995, representatives of the People's Party called for a referendum to suspend the citizenship of non-ethnic Slovenes. The attempt was stopped by the Constitutional Court.\n\nAhead of the parliamentary election of 1996, the People's Party formed the Slovenian Spring alliance together with the Slovene Christian Democrats (SKD), that referred to the historical Slovenian People's Party, as well. However the alliance, was disbanded immediately after the elections, when the SLS joined a coalition government with the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia (LDS), while the SKD went into opposition. In April 2000, strains between SLS and the Liberal Democrats led to the former's withdrawal from the coalition. In early May, SLS, SKD and SDS elected Christian democrat Andrej Bajuk prime minister instead.\n\nOn 15 April 2000, the Slovene Christian Democrats merged into the Slovenian People's Party, and the abbreviation was temporarily changed to SLS+SKD to signify both predecessors. However, as early as in July of the same year rifts emerged, based on the question of a new electoral system. Therefore, Prime Minister Bajuk, Lojze Peterle, and other centrist Christian democrats left the unified party to form New Slovenia – Christian People's Party (NSi) in August. The remaining People's Party performed poorly in the election in October 2000, but became part of the Liberal-led coalition government of Janez Drnovšek.\n\nIn the legislative election on 3 October 2004, the party won 6.8% of the popular vote and 7 out of 90 seats. Led by Janez Podobnik, the brother of former chairman Marjan Podobnik, the party entered in the centre-right government of Janez Janša.\n\nIn 2007, the mayor of Celje Bojan Šrot replaced Marjan Podobnik as president of the party. This change in leadership coincided with a policy shift. Upon his election, Šrot announced he wanted to transform the SLS in the largest center-right party in Slovenia, thus challenging the primacy of Janez Janša's Slovenian Democratic Party. Šrot started criticizing some of the neo-liberal reforms launched by Janša's government, and especially Janša's \"anti-tycoon\" policies, aimed against concentration of wealth in the hands of a small group of executive managers of privatized former state-owned firms. One of these \"tycoons\" was also Boško Šrot, Bojan Šrot's brother, and CEO of the Laško Brewery company.\n\nIn the 2008 election the SLS ran a joint list with the Youth Party of Slovenia. In the electoral campaign, the party tried to distance itself from its former coalition allies. The joint list secured only 5 seats and 5.2% of the vote, a loss of 2 compared to the results of the SLS in 2004.\n\nIn 2009, Radovan Žerjav, former Minister of Transport in Janez Janša government, replaced Šrot as the leader of the party. Under his leadership, the SLS adopted a more moderate rhetorics. After 11 years in power, the party stayed in opposition, trying to forge an image of a constructive opposition party, supporting moderate conservative policies.\n\nIn the 2011 election, the SLS increased its support both in number of voters and in percentage, thus reversing the falling trend for the first time after the 2000 election.\n\nIn the 2014 European election, SLS ran in a joint electoral list with New Slovenia, which received 16.56% of the vote and came in second place, returning 2 MEPs.\n\nThe party received 3.98% of the vote in the Slovenian parliamentary election on 13 July 2014, narrowly missing the 4% threshold for representation in the parliament. In 2018 it received only 2.62% of the votes and next day the leader Marko Zidanšek resigned. Party decided that Primož Jelševar would lead the party until the next regular party congress.\n\nParliamentary representation:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14094862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14094862", "title": "Soldiers for the Truth Foundation", "text": "Soldiers for the Truth Foundation\n\nThe Soldiers for the Truth Foundation is a 501(c)(3) public charity organization in the United States dedicated to military reform. Its stated mission is to inform the public, Congress, and the media on issues related to the training, readiness, equipment and leadership of US armed forces. The Foundation is registered as a non-profit organization under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code. Notable issues in which the foundation has been involved include campaigning for better body armor for troops serving in Iraq and contributing to coverage of the abuse of prisoners at Abu Ghraib.\n\nSoldiers For The Truth claims a membership of 20,000 and publishes an online magazine called Defense Watch criticising the country's military leadership using information provided by active servicemen and women.\n\nSoldiers for the Truth grew out of the regular opinion pieces written by David H. Hackworth from the early 1990s on, originally titled \"Defending America\". Though donations are solicited from readers, Col. Hackworth also used the profits from his own book sales to help fund the organization. Weekly email newsletters were composed by a group of like-minded veterans, their friends and spouses, including R.W. Zimmermann, Bill Rogers, Ray Starmann, Kate Aspy, Barry \"Woody\" Groton, Ed \"Edgar\" Schneider, and Kyle Elliot. Later contributors included author and civilian security analyst Paul Purcell, and Lt. Col. Karen Kwiatkowski, a whistleblower who criticised the Pentagon's Office of Special Plans as \"Orwellian\".\nOther authors included former Editor in Chief Ed Offley, Paul Connors, Matt Dodd and Roger Perry.\n\nAs of 2007, the foundation's board includes Hackworth's widow Eilhys England, Maj. John Falcon, US Army Retired and Lt. Col. Gary Stahlhut, US Army Reserve Retired.\n\nIn October 2001, as the American military prepared for its campaign in Afghanistan, Col. Hackworth assessed the readiness level of most of the troops as follows: \"I would be reluctant to jump into a battle zone with any conventional American unit. I would hate to take them into battle - they ain't ready, they are not 'good to go'.\" He was also critical of the 'elite' troops that were expected to lead the assault. Hackworth has repeatedly stated that the American military is weakened by a combination of senior officers who are primarily concerned about their own careers above the welfare and training of their troops, and a culture of misdirected and wasteful expenditure.\n\nIn May 2004, the New York Times reported that Mr William Lawson, the uncle of an Army reservist serving as a prison guard in Iraq, contacted SFTT by email on 23 March to express his frustration that the guards would become scapegoats for the abuse of prisoners at Abu Ghraib, when Lawson himself believed the abuses were \"evidence of a complete breakdown in training and authority in the Iraqi prison system\". Lawson wrote in his email: \"We have contacted the Red Cross, Congress both parties, Bill O'Reilly and many others. Nobody wants to touch this.\" The staff at SFTT put Lawson in touch with researchers working for 60 Minutes II, which broadcast a documentary on the subject within five weeks.\n\nIn May 2007, incoming SFTT president John Falcon stated that the Pentagon-approved \"Interceptor\" body armor, issued to US Marines serving in Iraq, did not provide adequate protection against armor-piercing bullets. Falcon said that according to a secret Pentagon report, 80% of marines killed due to torso wounds between 2003 and 2005 would have survived if they had been wearing adequate body armor. SFTT continues to campaign for soldiers to be issued with an allegedly tougher, more protective body armor called \"Dragon Skin\". Marines interviewed on the subject appreciated the group's campaign, saying, \"Anytime you get better equipment to the Marines, soldiers and sailors, it would make us that more dominant so it would be a good thing.\" \n\nAs of 2007, SFTT is preparing legal action to compel the Pentagon to acknowledge and assist Vietnam veterans who were exposed to the defoliant Agent Blue during the Vietnam War. The cause of Col. Hackworth's death was \"a form of cancer now appearing with increasing frequency among Vietnam veterans exposed to the defoliants called Agents Orange and Blue\".\n\nThe current President of the Board, Frederick Tanne, was instrumental in involving the law firm of Kirkland & Ellis LLP in filing the final motion with the Federal Court in Washington, DC in the Freedom of Information Act (“FOIA”) on behalf of the SFTT’s editor for forensic records held by the Department of Defense (“DOD”).\n"}
{"id": "49201531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49201531", "title": "Ten Years (2015 film)", "text": "Ten Years (2015 film)\n\nTen Years () is a 2015 Hong Kong dystopian speculative fiction anthology film. It offers a vision of the semi-autonomous territory in the year 2025, with human rights and freedoms gradually diminishing as the mainland Chinese government exerts increasing influence there. Produced on a shoestring budget, the film was a surprise hit, beating \"\" at the Yau Ma Tei cinema where it was first released.\n\nDue to the film's sensitive political themes, mainland Chinese authorities censored reports mentioning \"Ten Years\" except in terms of condemnation. State television channels and major internet sites were prohibited from broadcasting the 35th Hong Kong Film Awards live as the film was nominated for Best Film, which it eventually won.\n\nThe film comprises five short stories set in the year 2025.\n\nPrior to an International Labour Day celebration, government officials concoct a false flag assassination plot to foment public support for legislation of the National Security Law. They hire two petty gangsters to execute the plot: Hairy (Zerisawa Courtney Wu), a middle-aged low-level triad member, and Peter (Peter Chan), an immigrant from India. While the two argue over who should fire the gun, the director of the Liaison Office decides that the leaders of both the TMD and the Fortune Parties are to get shot with real bullets, so as to instigate greater panic in the territory. Misbelieving they will get paid and flee to India afterwards, both Hairy and Peter attempt the assassination but are killed instantly on scene by the police. Later, the government identifies the perpetrators as terrorists and restates the significance of the upcoming legislation.\n\nDirector Kwok Zune stated that the triad-like behaviour of the officials was inspired by real-world pro-establishment groups in Hong Kong, who were accused of beating and sexually assaulting pro-democratic protesters during the 2014 Hong Kong protests.\n\nWong Ching (herself) and Lau Ho-chi (himself) attempt to preserve objects from homes destroyed by bulldozers. The last specimen Lau wants to create is his own body.\n\nAs the government enacts laws limiting operating areas of non-Mandarin-speaking taxi drivers, a Cantonese-speaking driver (Leung Kin-ping) finds himself marginalised as he fails to pass the national Mandarin proficiency test. The driver's wife instructs him to stop using Cantonese with their son, Kongson, so that the boy will do better at his Mandarin medium of instruction school. A series of vignettes further illustrate the increasing dominance of Mandarin and Leung's struggle adjusting. He is unable to make himself understood by his Mandarin GPS unit and is ridiculed by a passenger for it. Two Mandarin-speaking fares opt to take another cab when they realise he cannot speak the language. One of his passengers, an office lady (Catherine Chau), is fired from her job for failing to clearly explain something to a client in Mandarin.\n\nThe film alludes to a 2003 real-world proposal by the Transport Department that failed, as well as a regulation introduced in Wuhan. In Mainland China, Mandarin (a.k.a. Putonghua) is promoted as a national language, and legislation such as the Guangdong National Language Regulations restricts the use of Cantonese and all other varieties of Chinese. The name \"Dialect\" comes from the fact that the Mainland government refers to Cantonese as a dialect despite the fact that it is mutually unintelligible with Mandarin. The short was directed by Jevons Au Man-kit, a graduate of the Hong Kong Academy for Performing Arts, who said that the taxi driver's plight was influenced by his own struggles to write scripts in Mandarin in an increasingly Mainland-oriented Hong Kong film sector.\n\nAu-yeung Kin-fung (Ng Siu-hin), a young hardline supporter for Hong Kong independence, becomes the first to be convicted under the National Security Law and dies during a hunger strike in prison. An unknown person commits self-immolation in front of the British Consulate-General in Admiralty. This escalates public concerns about Hong Kong's undecided future beyond 2047. Au-yeung's friend Karen (Tanzela Qoser) is initially feared to be the self-immolator but is later revealed to have been kidnapped by secret police. Au-yeung's allies, led by Marco (Neo Yau), break into and set fire to the Central Government Liaison Office in Sai Wan, while a group of Christians gather and pray outside the British Consulate-General to urge the Britons to uphold the Sino-British Joint Declaration co-signed with the Beijing authorities. The Communist Party labels the demand for independence a diplomatic affair, thereby justifying the deployment of the People's Liberation Army in the city. The protests in Sai Wan and Admiralty are crushed violently. As a flashback reveals, after witnessing Au-yeung being severely beaten by police, an old woman was moved to commit self-immolation outside the British Consulate-General. The film ends on a prolonged shot of her umbrella burning, alluding to the Umbrella Movement.\n\nThe storytelling is intertwined with interviews with commentators analysing ongoing events and providing background information such as Hong Kong's removal from the UN decolonisation list in 1972 at China's behest.\n\nDirected by Chow Kwun-wai, \"Self-immolator\" alludes to the common practice of self-immolation in Mainland China as a form of protest, particularly among Tibetans. Chow stated that while the plot of this piece may seem extreme, \"In 2004, people would also find it hard to believe that [the police can drag a protester into a dark corner and beat him up]\", alluding to the beating of Ken Tsang and other incidents of police brutality during the 2014 Hong Kong protests.\n\nSam (Liu Kai-chi), a grocery store keeper, is told about the closure of the last chicken farm in Hong Kong. He then visits his egg supplier, farm owner Cheung who recalls the government's actions to gradually kill off the industry despite the fact that he has been meeting their demands. Sam's store is frequently checked by Youth Guards, members of a Red Guards-like uniform group, since his use of \"local eggs\" on his label is on the censor list. He doubts why \"local eggs\" must be relabeled \"Hong Kong eggs\" when they refer to the same thing. Sam finds his son Ming among a squad of Youth Guards throwing eggs at a bookstore, but Ming assures his father that he has kept his teaching in mind and has not participated in the vandalism; instead, he often leaks the censor lists and actions to bookstore keepers so that they can remain safe and preserve the books. Relaxed at his son's critical thinking, Sam reminds a bookstore keeper not to get used to such suppressive acts.\n\n\"Ten Years\" ends with a quote from the Book of Amos: and \"Already too late\" fading out and replaced by \"Not too late\".\n\nThe independent film was conceived by Ng Ka-leung, a graduate of the Hong Kong Polytechnic University. Ng said that the idea predated the Umbrella Movement, and was inspired by ongoing political, educational and housing problems. He explained in late 2015:\nThe film was produced on a budget of HK$500,000 (US$64,000). The cast and crew were mainly volunteers. It was filmed in Hong Kong.\n\nThe film was featured at the Hong Kong Asian Film Festival in November 2015 before its general release. It was initially released on only one screen in Hong Kong at the Broadway Cinematheque in Yau Ma Tei at the end of 2015. It was a surprise hit, and subsequently received a release at select UA Cinemas. It was further picked up by two independent cinemas, the Metroplex in Kowloon Bay and the Ma On Shan Classics Cinema. The Metroplex decided to show the film in its largest cinema (430 seats) boosting ticket sales.\n\nBy early February 2016 only the independent cinema in Ma On Shan was showing the film. It ended its run there following the weekend of 12 February. Since being pulled from theatres, the film has been showing at private screening at universities and other rented venues, advertised on social media.\n\nIn February 2016 the international distribution rights for the film were purchased by Golden Scene, a Hong Kong-based distributor.\n\nOn 1 April 2016, with no cinemas screening the film despite high demand, \"Ten Years\" was simultaneously screened at 34 different public locations around Hong Kong, including the underside of motorway flyovers (in Sham Shui Po and Mei Foo), the public steps leading to the Sha Tin Town Hall, and the forecourt of the Legislative Council Complex. The screenings were organised by a variety of community groups, educational institutions, and churches. They were attended by thousands, many of whom were frustrated to have been unable to get tickets before the film was pulled from cinemas.\n\nIn the first month of its general release, most showings were sold out. At the only cinema showing it in the week of its opening, it grossed more ticket sales than \"\", and ranked top ten in Hong Kong's weekend box office. At the end of January 2016 the film surpassed HK$5 million in box office earnings, which one of the directors called a miracle given the film's modest budget and limited screening. At the time the film was only being shown at UA Megabox, the Metroplex and the Ma On Shan Classics Cinema. By mid-February, when \"Ten Years\" ended its run at the sole screen where it was still being shown, the film had grossed more than HK$6 million.\n\nThe \"South China Morning Post\" reported that \"Ten Years\" topped the charts on Chinese download site zimuzu.tv after the Hong Kong Film Awards ceremony, but that users were disappointed to find they had downloaded the 2011 American film of the same name.\n\n\"Ten Years\" received generally positive reviews locally. Some viewers reportedly left the cinema in tears. \"Time Out Hong Kong\" called the film \"powerful, poignant, relevant and brave\", as well as \"nightmarish\". The \"Hong Kong Economic Journal\" called it \"well-constructed\", and wrote: \"Viewers will realize that although some of the scenes may seem unfamiliar and others way too radical, the stories are always anchored on developments in the past and the present. There’s always something in the movie that viewers can identify with, something believable and within the realm of the possible.\" Writing in the \"South China Morning Post\", Edmund Lee called the film \"a reminder of the power of independent, intelligent filmmaking as a vehicle for social and political critique\" and \"one of the most thought-provoking local films in years\". Alice Wu said: \"Provocation is an art form. Perhaps the true value of Ten Years lies in how uncomfortable it is to us all... As a portrayal of our worst fears, it is arguably the quintessential political horror film of our time. It perfectly plays (or should it be 'preys'?) on many Hongkongers’ primal fears...\"\n\nA review in \"Hong Kong Free Press\" responded that \"while \"Global Times\" and other reviewers have primarily directed their critiques at the likelihood of the film's events actually taking place, the film cannot be entirely interpreted as a prediction for the year 2025. \"Ten Years\" is not a forecast calculated via econometric modelling; it is simply a portrayal of the Hong Kong public's worst fears. Perhaps a more pertinent question raised by the film is why people have come to dread – rather than look forward to – the city’s future. The answer is probably because we have been shown no realistic alternative.\" The same reviewer observed a message about belonging in Hong Kong: \"For example, \"Extras\" and \"Self-Immolator\" [...] portray mainland immigrants, South Asians and elderly characters without treating them as antagonists or resorting to stereotypes. The latter film even features a mixed-race relationship, advocating the idea that Hong Kong identity should be based on civic, not ethnic, factors.\"\n\nThe film was selected to be screened at the 18th Taipei Film Festival opening on 30 June 2016.\n\nPeter Lam, chairman of Media Asia and of the Hong Kong Tourism Board, said: \"The fact that the film got the prize is a tragedy for Hong Kong's movie industry [because] politics has kidnapped the profession and politicised film-awarding events.\" Lam added that, from a film investor's perspective: \"The movie did not possess the qualities of best film, as you can see that it was not nominated for best actress or best actor awards, nor was it a blockbuster.\" Crucindo Hung, former chairman of the Federation of Motion Film Producers of Hong Kong, criticised the award as \"an out-of-your-mind and outrageous decision.\" Lam further defended his remark from criticism, but earned further rebuke to his statement implying that a wonton noodles shop ought never to be able to be voted the best restaurant in Hong Kong. Some members of the Chamber of Films said that they would submit a proposal to the Hong Kong Film Awards Association to change the voting mechanism of the awards. Daniel Lam, Chamber of Films member and owner of Universe Films, whose film \"Little Big Master\" lost out to \"Ten Years\", said that current voting mechanism \"can be easily manipulated to produce an irrational result\".\n\nOn the other hand, the Chinese Communist Party-controlled \"Global Times\" called the film absurd and ridiculous, and accused the filmmakers of trying to spread anxiety. It referred to the film's political message as a \"virus of the mind\" and claimed its box office earnings were minimal.\n\nDue to the fact that the film was nominated for best picture in the 35th Hong Kong Film Awards, the state-owned China Central Television announced that it would not live telecast the ceremony, as it had done every year since 1991. The online video website Tencent has said that it will also not cover the event. China's leading film review websites Douban and Mtime.com do not allow users to create a page for the film. Derek Yee, chairman of Hong Kong Film Awards, who presented the award to the directors, said that it had been hard to find anyone else to present the award, due to fears of being blacklisted for mainland opportunities.\n\nMajor mainland news websites, including Sina and Tencent, covered the awards ceremony, held 3 April 2016, but neglected to mention the winner of best picture, considered one of Asia's top film awards. In mainland Chinese cities where TVB, the main Hong Kong television channel, is aired, users on social media reported that the programme was blacked out and replaced with a cooking programme.\n\nDuring the week of 11 April 2016, Apple was ordered by the Chinese State Administration of Press, Publication, Radio, Film and Television to shut down its iTunes Movie and iBooks stores, which had been approved approximately six months earlier. This appears to be in response to the availability of \"Ten Years\" in the iTunes Movie store. News of the store closures broke shortly before the movie became available on iTunes in Hong Kong.\n\nIn October 2017, a pan-Asian franchise based on the film was announced. Japanese, Taiwanese and Thai versions are planned, each offering a very specific take on those societies' \"hidden dangers and hidden fears\", according to Rina B. Tsou, one of five Taiwanese directors on that project. For instance, the Japanese version would explore a country \"plagued by pollution and aging\" as well as a \"society where morality and personal history are manipulated by technology.\" \"Surveillance and government control\" in a Thailand a decade hence will be envisaged by director Aditya Assarat, while the Taiwanese project foretells an island where \"immigrant workers are systematically exploited and the loss of culture and dropping birth rate\" have caused its inhabitants to turn to \"virtual reality escapes.\"\n\nExecutive producers for the franchise include Andrew Choi, one of the original Hong Kong 'Ten Years' producers, and Japanese filmmaker Hirokazu Kore-eda.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58685192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58685192", "title": "Transnational Institute", "text": "Transnational Institute\n\nThe Transnational Institute (TNI), is an international non-profit research and advocacy think tank that was founded in 1974, Amsterdam, Netherlands. It claims to be promoting a \"... just, democratic and sustainable world.\"\n\nTNI was founded in 1974 in Amsterdam. Initially it operated as an international arm of the Institute for Policy Studies. Later it continued as a non-profit worldwide organisation. \n\nIn 1976 the director of the institute (Orlando Letelier) was Assassinated by the Chilean secret police as ordered by Augusto Pinochet.\n\nThe activist Susan George is chairman of the supervisory board of the TNI.\n\nThe members of the institute are involved in the civil society and the associative life of their respective countries. Based in Amsterdam, the permanent team of TNI consisted of twenty five people in 2006.\n\nThe TNI publishes research papers, books and organises seminars and debates. Its members include activists, researchers, writers, scholars, journalists and documentary makers. The organisation has specific interest sections called \"programs\". These are the fields the organisation currently focuses on.\n\nThe program analyses world wide trends on drugs-policies and promotes a pragmatic approach to drugs based on damage-control. It has written on countries in latin america. and southeast asia\n\nRicardo Soberón, the Lawyer who was the drug tsar for Peru until 2012, has carried out research for TNI.\n\nThe public alternatives program publishes research and organises events on the following topics\n\n\nPublications\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1891886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1891886", "title": "V for Vendetta (film)", "text": "V for Vendetta (film)\n\nV for Vendetta is a 2005 dystopian political thriller film directed by James McTeigue and written by The Wachowskis, based on the 1988 DC/Vertigo Comics limited series of the same name by Alan Moore and David Lloyd. The film is set in an alternative future where a Nordic supremacist and neo-fascist regime has subjugated the United Kingdom. Hugo Weaving portrays V, an anarchist freedom fighter who attempts to ignite a revolution through elaborate terrorist acts, and Natalie Portman plays Evey, a young, working-class woman caught up in V's mission, while Stephen Rea portrays the detective leading a desperate quest to stop V.\n\nThe film was originally scheduled for release by Warner Bros. on Friday, November 4, 2005, (a day before the 400th Guy Fawkes Night), but was delayed; it opened on March 17, 2006, to positive reviews. Alan Moore, having been dissatisfied with the film adaptations of his other works \"From Hell\" (2001) and \"The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen \"(2003), declined to watch the film and asked not to be credited or paid royalties.\n\n\"V for Vendetta\" has been seen by many political groups as an allegory of oppression by government; libertarians and anarchists have used it to promote their beliefs. David Lloyd stated: \"The Guy Fawkes mask has now become a common brand and a convenient placard to use in protest against tyranny – and I'm happy with people using it, it seems quite unique, an icon of popular culture being used this way.\"\n\nIn 2032, the world is in turmoil, with the United States fractured as a result of prolonged second civil war and a pandemic of the \"St. Mary's Virus\" that ravaged the U.K and Europe 14 years prior. The United Kingdom is ruled as a neo-fascist police state by the Norsefire Party, under the all-powerful High Chancellor Adam Sutler.\n\nOn November 4, a vigilante in a Guy Fawkes mask identifying himself as \"V\" rescues Evey Hammond, an employee of the state-run British Television Network, from members of the \"Fingermen\" secret police while she is out past curfew. From a rooftop, they watch his demolition of London's main criminal court, the Old Bailey, accompanied by fireworks and the \"1812 Overture\". Inspector Finch of Scotland Yard is asked to investigate V's activities while BTN declares the incident an \"emergency demolition\". V interrupts the broadcast to claim responsibility, encouraging the people of Britain to rise up against their government and meet him on next year's Guy Fawkes Night outside the Houses of Parliament. During the broadcast, the police attempt to capture V. Evey helps him escape, but is knocked unconscious.\n\nV takes Evey to his home, where she is told she must remain for one year. V then kills Lewis Prothero, Norsefire's chief propagandist, and Anthony Lilliman, the Bishop of London. Evey offers to help, and uses the opportunity to escape to the home of her boss, comedian and talk show host Gordon Deitrich. In return for Evey trusting him with her safety, Gordon reveals prohibited materials, including subversive paintings, an antique Quran, and homoerotic photographs. Meanwhile, V confronts Dr. Delia Surridge, who had experimented on him and many other \"undesirables\" at Larkhill concentration camp; seeing her remorse for her past actions, he kills her painlessly.\n\nAfter Gordon performs a satire of the government on his show, his home is raided later that night and Evey is captured. She is imprisoned and tortured for information about V, with her only solace being a note written by actress Valerie Page, a former prisoner who was tortured and killed for being lesbian. Evey is told she will be executed unless she reveals V's location. When she says she would rather die, she is inexplicably released, and then finds herself in V's home. It turns out that V was the one who had \"captured\" her at Gordon's home, and staged her imprisonment and torture to free her from her fears. The note was real, passed from Valerie to V when he was imprisoned. He also informs her that Deitrich had been executed when the Quran was found in his home. While Evey initially hates V for what he did to her, she realises she has become a stronger person. She leaves him, promising to return before November 5.\n\nReading the deceased Surridge's journal, Finch learns V is the result of human experimentation and has been targeting the people who detained him. Despite being stonewalled by the government, Finch searches for the true identity of V, tracing him to a bioweapons program in Larkhill. Finch meets William Rookwood, who tells him that the program, which was directed by Sutler (who was then Undersecretary of Defence), resulted in the creation of the deadly St. Mary's Virus during Americas war in the middle east which grew worse. He further reveals that Creedy, a leader of the Norsefire Party, released the virus onto English soil particularly on a school called St Mary and a water treatment plant, killing more than 100,000 British residents and framing the outbreak as an attack by a terrorist organisation. The Party, which promised security in times of social instability, used the ensuing wave of fear and chaos to elevate Sutler to the newly created office of High Chancellor and win an overwhelming majority in Parliament, becoming the elected government and taking absolute and total control over the country. Finch later discovers that Rookwood was V in disguise, and though he initially disbelieves the story, his faith in the Norsefire government is severely shaken.\n\nAs November 5 nears, V distributes thousands of Guy Fawkes masks, and the population questions party rule. The nation slowly descends into anarchy, ignited when one of the Fingermen makes the mistake of shooting and killing a young girl committing vandalism, only to be killed in turn by a mob of enraged citizens. On the eve of November 5, Evey visits V, who shows her an explosive-laden train in the abandoned London Underground, set to destroy Parliament. He leaves it to Evey to decide whether to use it. V meets Party Leader Creedy, with whom he has made a deal to surrender in exchange for Sutler's execution. After Creedy executes Sutler, V reneges on his deal and kills Creedy and his men. Mortally wounded, he returns to Evey and tells her he loves her before dying.\n\nAs Evey places V's body aboard the train, she is found by Finch. Disillusioned by the Party's regime, Finch allows Evey to send the train off. On the surface, thousands of unarmed Londoners wearing Guy Fawkes masks march towards the Houses of Parliament. Since Creedy and Sutler are both dead, the military receives no orders, and allows the crowd to pass. As Parliament is destroyed, Finch asks Evey for V's identity, to which she replies, \"He was all of us.\"\n\n\n\"V for Vendetta\" sets the Gunpowder Plot as V's historical inspiration, contributing to his choice of timing, language, and appearance. For example, the names Rookwood, Percy and Keyes are used in the film, which are also the names of three of the Gunpowder conspirators. The film creates parallels to Alexandre Dumas' \"The Count of Monte Cristo\", by drawing direct comparisons between V and Edmond Dantès. (In both stories, the hero escapes an unjust and traumatic imprisonment and spends decades preparing to take vengeance on his oppressors under a new persona.) The film is also explicit in portraying V as the embodiment of an idea rather than an individual through V's dialogue and by depicting him without a past, identity or face. According to the official website, \"V's use of the Guy Fawkes mask and persona functions as both practical and symbolic elements of the story. He wears the mask to hide his physical scars, and in obscuring his identity – he becomes the idea itself.\"\n\nAs noted by several critics and commentators, the film's story and style mirror elements from Gaston Leroux's \"The Phantom of the Opera\". V and the Phantom both wear masks to hide their disfigurements, control others through the leverage of their imaginations, have tragic pasts, and are motivated by revenge. V and Evey's relationship also parallels many of the romantic elements of \"The Phantom of the Opera\", where the masked Phantom takes Christine Daaé to his subterranean lair to re-educate her.\n\nAs a film about the struggle between freedom and the state, \"V for Vendetta\" takes imagery from many classic totalitarian icons both real and fictional, including the Third Reich and George Orwell's \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\". For example, Adam Sutler primarily appears on large video screens and on portraits in people's homes, both common features among modern totalitarian regimes and reminiscent of the image of Big Brother. The slogan \"Strength through Unity. Unity through Faith\" is displayed prominently across London, similar in cadence to \"War is Peace. Freedom is Slavery. Ignorance is Strength\" in Orwell's book. There is also the state's use of mass surveillance, such as closed-circuit television, on its citizens. Valerie was sent to a detention facility for lesbianism and then had medical experiments performed on her, reminiscent of the persecution of homosexuals in Nazi Germany and the Holocaust.\n\nThe filmmakers added topical references relevant to a 2006 audience. According to the \"Los Angeles Times\", \"With a wealth of new, real-life parallels to draw from in the areas of government surveillance, torture, fear mongering and media manipulation, not to mention corporate corruption and religious hypocrisy, you can't really blame the filmmakers for having a field day referencing current events.\" There are also references to an avian flu pandemic, as well as pervasive use of biometric identification and signal-intelligence gathering and analysis by the regime.\n\nFilm critics, political commentators and other members of the media have also noted the film's numerous references to events surrounding the George W. Bush administration in the United States. These include the hoods and sacks worn by the prisoners in Larkhill that have been seen as a reference to the Abu Ghraib torture and prisoner abuse. The Homeland Security Advisory System and rendition are also referenced. One of the forbidden items in Gordon's secret basement is a protest poster with a mixed US–UK flag with a swastika and the title \"Coalition of the Willing, To Power\" which combines the \"Coalition of the Willing\" with Friedrich Nietzsche's concept of will to power.\n\nDespite the America-specific references, the filmmakers have always referred to the film as adding dialogue to a set of issues much broader than the US administration. When James McTeigue was asked whether or not BTN was based on Fox News Channel, McTeigue replied, \"Yes. But not just Fox. Everyone is complicit in this kind of stuff. It could just as well been the Britain's Sky News Channel, also a part of News Corp.\"\n\nThe film was made by many of the same filmmakers involved in \"The Matrix\" series. In 1988, producer Joel Silver acquired the rights to two of Alan Moore's works: \"V for Vendetta\" and \"Watchmen\". After the release and relative success of \"Road House\", writer Hilary Henkin was brought on to flesh out the project with an initial draft – one that bears little, if any, relation to the finished product, with the inclusion of overtly satirical and surrealistic elements not present in the graphic novel, as well as the removal of much of the novel's ambiguity, especially in regard to V's identity. The Wachowskis were fans of \"V for Vendetta\" and in the mid-1990s, before working on \"The Matrix\", wrote a draft screenplay that closely followed the graphic novel. During the post-production of the second and third \"The Matrix\" films, they revisited the screenplay and offered the director's role to James McTeigue. All three were intrigued by the original story's themes and found them to be relevant to the current political landscape. Upon revisiting the screenplay, the Wachowskis set about making revisions to condense and modernise the story, while at the same time attempting to preserve its integrity and themes. James McTeigue cites the film \"The Battle of Algiers\" as his principal influence in preparing to film \"V for Vendetta\".\n\nMoore explicitly disassociated himself from the film due to his lack of involvement in its writing or directing, as well as due to a continuing series of disputes over film adaptations of his work. He ended cooperation with his publisher, DC Comics, after its corporate parent, Warner Bros., failed to retract statements about Moore's supposed endorsement of the film. Moore said that the script contained plot holes and that it ran contrary to the theme of his original work, which was to place two political extremes (fascism and anarchism) against one another. He argues his work had been recast as a story about \"current American neo-conservatism vs. current American liberalism\". Per his wishes, Moore's name does not appear in the film's closing credits. Co-creator and illustrator David Lloyd supports the film adaptation, commenting that the script is very good but that Moore would only ever be truly happy with a complete book-to-screen adaptation.\n\n\"V for Vendetta\" was filmed in London, United Kingdom, and in Potsdam, Germany, at Babelsberg Studios. Much of the film was shot on sound stages and indoor sets, with location work done in Berlin for three scenes: the Norsefire rally flashback, Larkhill, and Bishop Lilliman's bedroom. The scenes that took place in the abandoned London Underground were filmed at the disused Aldwych tube station. Filming began in early March 2005 and principal photography officially wrapped in early June 2005. \"V for Vendetta\" is the final film shot by cinematographer Adrian Biddle, who died of a heart attack on December 7, 2005.\n\nTo film the final scene at Westminster, the area from Trafalgar Square and Whitehall up to Parliament and Big Ben had to be closed for three nights from midnight until 5 am. This was the first time the security-sensitive area (home to 10 Downing Street and the Ministry of Defence) had ever been closed to accommodate filming. Prime Minister (at the time of filming) Tony Blair's son, Euan, worked on the film's production and is said (according to an interview with Stephen Fry) to have helped the filmmakers obtain the unparalleled filming access. This drew criticism of Blair from MP David Davis due to the film's content. However, the filmmakers denied Euan Blair's involvement in the deal, stating that access was acquired through nine months of negotiations with fourteen different government departments and agencies.\n\nThe film was designed to have a future-retro look, with heavy use of grey tones to give a dreary, stagnant feel to totalitarian London. The largest set created for the film was the Shadow Gallery, which was made to feel like a cross between a crypt and an undercroft. The Gallery is V's home as well as the place where he stores various artefacts forbidden by the government. Some of the works of art displayed in the gallery include \"The Arnolfini Portrait\" by Jan van Eyck, \"Bacchus and Ariadne\" by Titian, a \"Mildred Pierce\" poster, \"St. Sebastian\" by Andrea Mantegna, \"The Lady of Shalott\" by John William Waterhouse and statues by Giacometti.\nOne of the major challenges in the film was how to bring V to life from under an expressionless mask. Thus, considerable effort was made to bring together lighting, acting, and Weaving's voice to create the proper mood for the situation. Since the mask muffled Weaving's voice, his entire dialogue was re-recorded in post-production.\n\nThe cast and filmmakers attended several press conferences that allowed them to address issues surrounding the film, including its authenticity, Alan Moore's reaction to it and its intended political message. The film was intended to be a departure from some of Moore's original themes. In the words of Hugo Weaving: \"Alan Moore was writing about something which happened some time ago. It was a response to living in Thatcherite Britain... This is a response to the world in which we live today. So I think that the film and the graphic novel are two separate entities.\" Regarding the film's controversial political content, the filmmakers have said that the film is intended more to raise questions and add to a dialogue already present in society, rather than provide answers or tell viewers what to think.\n\nThe film adopts extensive imagery from the 1605 Gunpowder Plot, in which a group of Catholic conspirators plotted to destroy the then Houses of Parliament in order to spark a revolution in England. The film was originally scheduled for release on the weekend of November 5, 2005, the Plot's 400th anniversary, with the tag line \"Remember, remember the 5th of November\", taken from a traditional British rhyme memorialising the event. However, the marketing angle lost much of its value when the release date was pushed back to March 17, 2006. Many have speculated that the delay was caused by the London tube bombing on the July 7 and the failed July 21 bombing. The filmmakers have denied this, saying that the delays were due to the need for more time to finish the visual effects production. \"V for Vendetta\" had its first major premiere on December 11, 2005, at Butt-Numb-A-Thon, followed by a premiere on February 13, 2006 at the Berlin Film Festival. It opened for general release on March 17, 2006 in 3,365 cinemas in the United States, the United Kingdom and six other countries.\n\nBy December 2006, \"V for Vendetta\" had grossed $132,511,035, of which $70,511,035 was from the United States. The film led the U.S. box office on its opening day, taking in an estimated $8,742,504, and remained the number one film for the remainder of the weekend, taking in an estimated $25,642,340. Its closest rival, \"Failure to Launch\", took in $15,604,892. The film debuted at number one in the Philippines, Singapore, South Korea, Sweden and Taiwan. \"V for Vendetta\" also opened in 56 IMAX cinemas in North America, grossing $1.36 million during the opening three days.\n\nDVD sales were successful, selling 1,412,865 DVD units in the first week of release which translated to $27,683,818 in revenue. By the end of 2006, 3,086,073 DVD units had been sold, bringing in slightly more than its production cost with $58,342,597. As of September 2018, the film has grossed over from DVD and Blu-ray sales in the United States.\n\nThe film was also successful in terms of merchandise sales, with hundreds of thousands of Guy Fawkes masks from the film having been sold every year since the film's release, as of 2011. Time Warner owns the rights to the image and is paid a fee with the sale of each official mask.\n\nEbert and Roeper gave the film a \"two thumbs up\" rating. Roger Ebert stated that \"V for Vendetta\" \"almost always has something going on that is actually interesting, inviting us to decode the character and plot and apply the message where we will\". Margaret Pomeranz and David Stratton from \"At the Movies\" stated that despite the problem of never seeing Weaving's face, there was good acting and an interesting plot, adding that the film is also disturbing, with scenes reminiscent of Nazi Germany. Jonathan Ross from the BBC blasted the film, calling it a \"woeful, depressing failure\" and stating that the \"cast of notable and familiar talents such as John Hurt and Stephen Rea stand little chance amid the wreckage of the Wachowski siblings' dismal script and its particularly poor dialogue.\" Sean Burns of \"Philadelphia Weekly\" gave the film a 'D', criticizing the film's treatment of its political message as being \"fairly dim, adolescent stuff,\" as well as expressing dislike for the \"barely decorated sets with television-standard overlit shadow-free cinematography by the late Adrian Biddle. The film is a visual insult.\" On Alan Moore removing his name from the project, Burns says \"it's not hard to see why,\" as well as criticising Portman's performance: \"Portman still seems to believe that standing around with your mouth hanging open constitutes a performance.\" Harry Guerin from the Irish TV network RTÉ states the film \"works as a political thriller, adventure and social commentary and it deserves to be seen by audiences who would otherwise avoid any/all of the three\". He added that the film will become \"a cult favourite whose reputation will only be enhanced with age.\" Andy Jacobs for the BBC gave the film two stars out of five, remarking that it is \"a bit of a mess... it rarely thrills or engages as a story.\"\n\n\"V for Vendetta\" received few awards, although at the 2007 Saturn Awards Natalie Portman won the Best Actress award. On review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, the film received an approval rating of 73% based on 244 reviews, with an average rating of 6.8/10. The site's critical consensus reads, \"Visually stunning and thought-provoking, \"V For Vendetta\" political pronouncements may rile some, but its story and impressive set pieces will nevertheless entertain.\" On Metacritic, the film has a weighted average score of 62 out of 100 based on 39 critics, indicating \"generally favorable reviews\". The film was nominated for the Hugo Award for Best Dramatic Presentation, Long Form in 2007. \"V\" was included on \"Fandomania\" list of \"The 100 Greatest Fictional Characters\". \"Empire\" magazine (in 2008) named the film the 418th greatest movie of all time.\n\n\"V for Vendetta\" deals with issues of homosexuality (and its negative foil homophobia), criticism of religion, totalitarianism, Islamophobia, and terrorism. Its controversial story line and themes have been the target of both criticism and praise from sociopolitical groups.\n\nOn April 17, 2006, the New York Metro Alliance of Anarchists organised a protest against DC Comics and Time Warner, accusing it of watering down the story's original message in favor of violence and special effects. David Graeber, an anarchist scholar and former professor at Yale University, was not upset by the film. \"I thought the message of anarchy got out in spite of Hollywood.\" However, Graeber went on to state: \"Anarchy is about creating communities and democratic decision making. That's what is absent from Hollywood's interpretation.\"\n\nFilm critic Richard Roeper dismissed right-wing Christian criticism of the film on the television show \"Ebert and Roeper\", saying that V's \"terrorist\" label is applied in the film \"by someone who's essentially Hitler, a dictator.\"\n\nLGBT commentators have praised the film for its positive depiction of homosexuals. Sarah Warn of AfterEllen.com called the film \"one of the most pro-gay ever\". Warn went on to praise the central role of the character Valerie \"not just because it is beautifully acted and well-written, but because it is so utterly unexpected [in a Hollywood film].\"\n\nDavid Walsh of the World Socialist Web Site criticized V's actions as \"antidemocratic,\" calling the film an example of \"the bankruptcy of anarcho-terrorist ideology;\" Walsh writes that because the people have not played any part in the revolution, they will be unable to produce a \"new, liberated society.\"\n\nThe film was broadcast on China's national TV station, China Central Television (CCTV) on December 16, 2012 completely uncensored, surprising many viewers. While many believed that the government had banned the film, the State Administration of Radio, Film and Television stated that it was not aware of a ban; CCTV makes its own decisions on whether to censor foreign films. Liu Shanying, a political scientist at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences who used to work for CCTV, speculated that the showing indicated that Chinese film censorship might be being loosened.\n\nThe film's story was adapted from Alan Moore and David Lloyd's graphic novel \"V for Vendetta\"; this was originally published between 1982 and 1985 in the British comic anthology \"Warrior\", and then reprinted and completed by DC. Moore's comics were later compiled into a graphic novel and published again in the United States under DC's Vertigo imprint and in the United Kingdom under Titan Books.\n\nThere are several fundamental differences between the film and the original source material. For example, the comic is set in the 1990s, while the film is set in 2032: Alan Moore's original story was created as a response to British Thatcherism in the early 1980s and was set as a conflict between a fascist state and anarchism, while the film's story has been changed by the Wachowski Brothers to fit a modern US political context. Alan Moore, however, charged that, in doing so, the story has turned into an American-centric conflict between liberalism and neo-conservatism, and abandons the original anarchist–fascist themes. Moore states that \"[t]here wasn't a mention of anarchy as far as I could see. The fascism had been completely defanged. I mean, I think that any references to racial purity had been excised, whereas actually, fascists are quite big on racial purity.\" Furthermore, in the original story, Moore attempted to maintain moral ambiguity, and not to portray the fascists as caricatures, but as realistic, rounded characters. The time limitations of a film meant that the story had to omit or streamline some of the characters, details, and plotlines from the original story. Chiefly, the original graphic novel has the fascists elected legally and kept in power through the general apathy of the public, whereas the film introduces the \"St. Mary's virus\", a biological weapon engineered and released by the Norsefire Party as a means of clandestinely gaining control over their own country.\n\nMany of the characters from the graphic novel underwent significant changes for the film. V is characterized in the film as a romantic freedom fighter who shows concern over the loss of innocent life. However, in the graphic novel, he is portrayed as ruthless, willing to kill anyone who gets in his way. Evey Hammond's transformation as V's protégée is also much more drastic in the novel than in the film. At the beginning of the film, she is already a confident woman with a hint of rebellion in her; in the graphic novel, she starts off as an insecure, desperate young woman forced into prostitution. V and Evey's relationship, though not as obvious in the book, ends in the film with pledges of love. In the graphic novel's finale, she not only carries out V's plans as she does in the film, but also clearly takes on V's identity. In the film, Inspector Finch sympathizes with V, but, in the graphic novel, he is determined to stop V and goes as far as taking LSD to enter into a criminal's state of mind. Gordon, a very minor character in both adaptations, is also drastically changed. In the novel, Gordon is a small-time criminal who takes Evey into his home after V abandons her on the street. The two share a brief romance before Gordon is killed by a Scottish gang. In the film, however, Gordon is a well-mannered colleague of Evey's, and is later revealed to be gay. He is arrested by fingermen for broadcasting a political parody on his TV program, and is later executed when a Quran is found in his possession.\n\n\"V for Vendetta\" was released on DVD in the US on August 1, 2006, in three formats: a single-disc wide-screen version, a single-disc full-screen version, and a two-disc wide-screen special edition. The single disc versions contain a short (15:56) behind-the-scenes featurette titled \"Freedom! Forever! Making V for Vendetta\" and the film's theatrical trailer, whereas the two-disc special edition contains three additional documentaries, and several extra features for collectors. On the second disc of the special edition, a short Easter egg clip of Natalie Portman on \"Saturday Night Live\" can be viewed by selecting the picture of wings on the second page of the menu. The film has also been released on the HD DVD high definition format, which features a unique 'in-film experience' created exclusively for the disc. Warner Bros. later released the video on Blu-Ray, on May 20, 2008. The film also saw release on Sony's PSP UMD format.\n\nThe \"V for Vendetta\" soundtrack was released by Astralwerks Records on March 21, 2006. The original scores from the film's composer, Dario Marianelli, make up most of the tracks on the album. The soundtrack also features three vocals played during the film: \"Cry Me a River\" by Julie London, a cover of The Velvet Underground song \"I Found a Reason\" by Cat Power and \"Bird Gerhl\" by Antony and the Johnsons. As mentioned in the film, these songs are samples of the 872 blacklisted tracks on V's Wurlitzer jukebox that V \"reclaimed\" from the Ministry of Objectionable Materials. The climax of Tchaikovsky's \"1812 Overture\" appears at the end of the track \"Knives and Bullets (and Cannons too)\". The Overture's \"finale\" is played at key parts at the beginning and end of the film.\n\nThree songs were played during the ending credits which were not included on the \"V for Vendetta\" soundtrack. The first was \"Street Fighting Man\" by the Rolling Stones. The second was a special version of Ethan Stoller's \"BKAB\". In keeping with revolutionary tone of the film, excerpts from \"On Black Power\" (also in \"A Declaration of Independence\") by black nationalist leader Malcolm X, and from \"Address to the Women of America\" by feminist writer Gloria Steinem were added to the song. Gloria Steinem can be heard saying: \"This is no simple reform... It really is a revolution. Sex and race, because they are easy and visible differences, have been the primary ways of organising human beings into superior and inferior groups and into the cheap labour on which this system still depends.\" The final song was \"Out of Sight\" by Spiritualized.\n\nAlso in the film were segments from two of Antonio Carlos Jobim's classic bossa nova songs, \"The Girl From Ipanema\" and \"Quiet Nights of Quiet Stars\". These songs were played during the \"breakfast scenes\" with V and Deitrich and were one of the ways used to tie the two characters together. Beethoven's \"Symphony No.5\" also plays an important role in the film, with the first four notes of the first movement signifying the letter \"V\" in Morse code. Gordon Deitrich's Benny Hill-styled comedy sketch of Chancellor Sutler includes the \"Yakety Sax\" theme. Inspector Finch's alarm clock begins the morning of November 4 with the song \"Long Black Train\" by Richard Hawley, which contains the foreshadowing lyrics \"Ride the long black train... take me home black train.\"\n\nThe original graphic novel by Moore and Lloyd was re-released as a hardback collection in October 2005 to tie into the film's original release date of November 5, 2005. The film renewed interest in Alan Moore's original story, and sales of the original graphic novel rose dramatically in the United States.\n\nA novelisation of the film, written by Steve Moore and based on the Wachowski Brothers' script, was published by Pocket Star on January 31, 2006. Spencer Lamm, who has worked with the Wachowskis, created a \"behind-the-scenes\" book. Titled \"V for Vendetta: From Script to Film\", it was published by Universe on August 22, 2006.\n\nIn October 2017, it was announced that Channel 4 was developing a television series based on the comic book.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46806979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46806979", "title": "Vice President of Yugoslavia", "text": "Vice President of Yugoslavia\n\nThe office of Vice President of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia existed from April 1963 to June 1967. It was established by the new Yugoslav Constitution adopted on 7 April 1963. The first to serve in the role was Aleksandar Ranković who assumed office on 30 June 1963. Due to an affair involving wire-tapping of Yugoslav president and general secretary of the League of Communists Josip Broz Tito, Ranković was forced to resign from the Central Committee and from the vice presidency on 1 July 1966. He was subsequently replaced by Koča Popović two weeks later who served out the remainder of Ranković's four-year term. On 26 April 1967 new amendments to the 1963 constitution were approved which disestablished the vice presidency once Ranković and Popović's combined four-year term was up. The office ceased to exist on 30 June 1967.\n\n"}
{"id": "11837114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11837114", "title": "Watching brief (lawsuit)", "text": "Watching brief (lawsuit)\n\nA watching brief is a method normally used in criminal cases by lawyers to represent clients not directly a party to the suit and to function as an observer. The method is normally used to help protect the rights and interests of victims of a crime, or also to protect a defendant from possible malicious prosecution. This method is used in countries such as Australia and Malaysia. Essentially, the lawyer must familiarize himself with the case at hand and understand the legal implication of every action or omission vis a vis his clients' interests.\n\nIn other countries like Kenya, the lawyer watching brief has to work hand in hand with the prosecutor to ensure that the Police file is availed in court at the hearing and witnesses bonded to attend court. Whereas he is not strictly performing the duty of the police, the advocate watching brief plays a crucial role in ensuring that the evidence presented to court is sufficient to secure a conviction for the offender thus preventing his client from civil suits for malicious prosecution arising from an acquittal.\n\nTo familiarize oneself with the matter, it is absolutely necessary that the lawyer obtains all witness statements and documents to be relied on and peruses them carefully. Should there be a loophole in the evidence, he should raise it with the prosecution for redress. To achieve this, it is imperative that the lawyer develops a cordial relationship with the prosecutor so that the information flowing to him (prosecutor) will appear as persuasive suggestions as opposed to orders which are more often likely to be ignored since the lawyer has no control over the prosecutor in his line of duty. Further, in Kenya, apart from introducing himself, the lawyer watching brief has no right of audience before the court and so the prosecutor becomes his mouthpiece.\n\nIn other words, being retained to watch brief should never be one passive, boring duty but one that should interest every lawyer interested in criminal jurisprudence. It is actually calling to account every party in the trial without being heard-working behind the scenes-and giving the much needed backup to the side enforcing your client’s rights.\n"}
{"id": "33382780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33382780", "title": "Wiam Wahhab", "text": "Wiam Wahhab\n\nWiam Wahhab () (born October 11 1964) is a Lebanese politician. He is a Druze from Jahlieh, Chouf District.\n\nA journalist, and former political advisor to Lebanese Prince Talal Arslan between 1991 and 2000, he ran unsuccessfully in the legislative elections of 1996.\n\nHe was appointed as minister of the environment in the government of Omar Karami (October 2004 to February 2005), during the period when Prime Minister Rafic Hariri was assassinated.\n\nIn 2006 Wahhab founded the Arab Tawhid party, which was involved in various feuds and fights against the Druze who support the Progressive Socialist Party of Walid Jumblatt.\n\nWiam Wahhab is part of the March 8 Alliance who also includes the Hezbollah, the Amal Movement and the Free Patriotic Movement, who is opposed to the policies of the March 14 Alliance and is aligned with the Syrian regional policies.\n\nWahhab has espoused Arab nationalist viewpoints, is extremely pro-Syrian, and is known for aggressive media attacks on March 14 Alliance policies and personalities.\n\nIn a television interview during the World Cup, he said he supported Brazil for their soccer, but Germany politically \"because they hate the Jews and they burned them\". \n\nDuring a television interview, Wahhab made disparaging comments about the Niqab which Saudi women wear, and about the Saudi government, blasting the March 14 alliance of Saad Hariri for his backing from Saudi Arabia, noting Saudi Arabia's human rights abuses such as amputations and forcing women to wear the niqab, and criticizing Wahhabism, and Saudi Arabia's alliance with the United States.\n\nThis led allies of Wahhab to distance themselves from his comments. Sunni Muslim protesters yelled \"There is no God but Allah\", and \"Wiam, you pig: you should be chained down\". An Islamist organization offered $3,500 to any person who beheaded Wahhab due to his comments on the niqab.\n\nWahhab was forced to apologize to Saudi women for the niqab remarks.\n\nWahhab has called on Egyptian protestors to destroy the Israeli embassy.\n\nWahhab commented on Turkey's warnings to Syria during the 2011 uprising by claiming that Syria and Bashar Al Assad were prepared to launch 100,000 rockets at Turkey if it tried to invade.\n\n"}
