{"id": "34741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34741", "title": "6th century", "text": "6th century\n\nThe 6th century is the period from 501 to 600 in accordance with the Julian calendar in the Common Era. In the West, this century marks the end of Classical Antiquity and the beginning of the Middle Ages. Following the collapse of the Western Roman Empire late in the previous century, Europe fractured into many small Germanic Kingdoms, which competed fiercely for land and wealth. From this upheaval the Franks rose to prominence, and carved out a sizeable domain encompassing much of modern France and Germany. Meanwhile, the surviving Eastern Roman Empire began to expand under the emperor Justinian, who eventually recaptured North Africa from the Vandals, and attempted to fully recover Italy as well in the hope of re-establishing Roman control over the lands once ruled by the Western Roman Empire.\n\nDuring its second Golden Age, the Sassanid Empire reached the peak of its power under Khosrau I in the 6th century. The classical Gupta Empire of Northern India, largely overrun by the Huna, ended in the mid-6th century. In Japan, the Kofun period gave way to the Asuka period. After being divided for more than 150 years into the Southern and Northern Dynasties, China was reunited under the Sui Dynasty toward the end of the 6th century. The Three Kingdoms of Korea persisted throughout the 6th century. The Göktürks became a major power in Central Asia after defeating the Rouran.\n\nIn the Americas, Teotihuacan began to decline in the 6th century after having reached its zenith between AD 150 and 450. Classic Period of the Maya civilization in Central America.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53371986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53371986", "title": "Abraham Belknap", "text": "Abraham Belknap\n\nAbraham Belknap (1589/90-1643), of Salem, Massachusetts, not to be confused with his son also named Abraham (1660-about 1728), was born in England. He was one of the first settlers of New England, and all living people with the surname Belknap, Belnap, or Beltoft, are thought to be descendants of him and his wife Mary Stallion.\n\nThe European branches of families with that surname died out before this Abraham Belknap's immigration to America.\nSome of his descendants include: a son also named Abraham Belknap (1660-1728)); Samuel Belknap (1627/28-1701), Ebenezer Belknap (1667-1701) who married Hannah Ayer, Joseph Belknap who married Prudence Morris; William Belknap who married Anna Burke; US Army Brigadier General William Goldsworth Belknap; Morris Burke Belknap who married Phoebe Thompson; William Burke Belknap who married Mary Richardson; William Richardson Belknap, Eleanor Silliman Belknap Humphrey, Alice Belknap, Mary Belknap, William Burke Belknap; Christine Belknap; William Humphrey; Alice Humphrey Morgan; Edward Cornelius Humphrey; Lewis Craig Humphrey (the 2nd);Thomas MacGillivray Humphrey; Sally Reed Humphrey; and Edward Porter Humphrey (the 2nd). Clergyman and historian Jeremy Belknap (1744 – 1798), who was the founder of the Massachusetts Historical Society, mentions Abraham Belknap early in his \"History of New Hampshire\".\n\nMany of the direct descendants of Abraham Belknap settled in or were natives of Louisville, Kentucky. They include Morris Burke Belknap (the elder) (June 25, 1780 -July 26, 1877) an iron foundry worker and founder of Belknap Hardware and Manufacturing Company; W. B. Belknap also known as William Burke Belknap (the elder) (1811–1889); Morris Burke Belknap (June 7, 1856 – April 13, 1910), also known as Colonel Morris Burke Belknap; William Burke Belknap (1885–1965), the owner of Land O'Goshen Farms; William Richardson Belknap (March 28, 1849 – June 2, 1914); genealogist Eleanor Silliman Belknap Humphrey (1876–1964); Dr. Edward Cornelius Humphrey, a World War II United States Army Major in the Medical Corps, stationed in the Ardennes; and economist Thomas M. Humphrey.\n"}
{"id": "4368597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4368597", "title": "Albert of Castile", "text": "Albert of Castile\n\nAlbert of Castile (c. 1460–1522) was a Roman Catholic historian. He entered the Order of St. Dominic at an early age in the Convent of SSts. John and Paul at Venice and became skilled in nearly every department of contemporary learning.\n\nHistory, however, was his chief study. He is the author of several noteworthy works, among which may be mentioned; \"Catalogus Illustrium Ordinis Virorum\" (Venice, 1501); \"Catalogus Sanctorum a Petro de Natalibus Veneto eregione Costellana episcopo Equilino concinnatus\" (Venice, 1501); \"Chronica brevis ab initio ordinis usque ad praesens tempus\" (Venice, 1504); an account of the Popes, the Dominican Generals, and the illustrious men of the Order, beginning with its foundation, drawn up chiefly from the work of the Dominican Giacomo de Luzato.\n\nHe is also the editor of the following works: \"Biblia Latina cum pleno apparatu tersissime et nitidissime impressa\" (Venice, 1506); this he re-edited fifteen years later with a concordance of the Old and New Testaments; \"Pontificale secundum ritum Romanae Ecclesiae emendatum primum a Jacobo de Lutiis episcopo Cafacensi et Joanne Buckardo\" (Venice, 1520); \"Constitutiones ord. Praed., una cum adjectis ad singulos textus opportune declarationibus\" (Venice, 1507); \"Liber de instructione officialium venerabilis Humberti magistri ordinis V\" (Venice, 1507); \"Regula et privilegia Fratrum et Sororum de poenitentia impugnantes Fratres Praedicatores, quod non vivant secundum vitam apostolicam, a Jacobo de Voragine, O.P. archiepiscopo Januensi\" (Venice, 1504)\n"}
{"id": "46936251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46936251", "title": "Alberto G. Valdeavellano", "text": "Alberto G. Valdeavellano\n\nAlberto G. Valveavellano (Guatemala City, 5 August 1861 - Guatemala City, 16 July 1928) was the first landscape and sports photographer of Guatemala.\n\nLittle is known about Valdeavellano family and personal life; his parents got married on 25 October 1851 and had seven children. Valdeavellano was the fourth of the couple's children. He grew up and got educated during the Liberal Reform in the 1870s and 1880s, he became an anticlerical agnostic, something not uncommon for the educated youth of those decades in Guatemala.\n\nHe graduated high school at the then prestigious Instituto Nacional for boys, where he was classmate with Rafael Spínola - who would later become editor in chief of \"La Ilustración Guatemalteca\" and \"La Idea Liberal\" and eventually secretary of Infrastructure of president Manuel Estrada Cabrera-; Spínola described him in 1896 as a consumed artist that used to draw his classmates and teacher while in class.\n\nGiven his talent as cartoonist and painter, he used it to work on photographic techniques, something that he has in common with most of photography pioneers in Guatemala, especially in the 19th and early 20th centuries. Valdeavellano learnt his profession from Emilio Herbruger ca. 1880, who owner \"Fotografía Imperial\" and where he worked together with Juan J. de Jesús Yas and Luis de la Riva Ruiz. After a while, he moved on to work with Eduardo J. Kildare in \"Palacio de Artes\", when the American photographer left Herbruger's shop.\n\nTowards the end of the 1890s, he worked with an associate in \"Fernández and Valdeavellano\" under the name of \"El Siglo XX\" (\"The 20th century\"). By then he lived in an Arabic style residence in Guatemala City and had a constant stream of socialites that wanted a portrait; some of his best work was published on biweekly basis in the \"La Ilustración Guatemalteca\".\n\nAfter a trip to Europe, his studio became \"El Arte Nuevo\" in the 1900s and towards the end of his live, we formed the \"Valdeavellano y Bolaños\" company, and worked there until his death in 1928.\n\nValdeavellano was a versatile professional photographer which made him the one of choice among the elite and middle classes in Guatemala to make their portraits; he became quite famous and also was the first sports photographers in the country as his cycling pictures show. Several of those sports pictures were published in \"La Ilustración Guatemalteca\" between 1896 and 1897. For the first issue of that cultural magazine he took the first ever instant photograph made in Guatemala on 28 June 1896, a picture of president general José María Reina Barrios, on his horse observing some military drills.\n\nHe travelled non-stop all across Guatemala capturing the rural landscape, the roads and the railways; he would picture colonial monuments or Maya temples in Quiriguá. He was able to get many images of Guatemala with his lens and made an extraordinary effort of getting them to the public, but in Guatemala and overseas. He printed postcards and posters of the main cities in Guatemala, such as Guatemala City, Quetzaltenango, Antigua Guatemala and Amatitlán.\n\nDied in Guatemala City on 16 July 1928, as a result of a liver problem, in his own home, located on East fourth street #26, across the streef from the Santa Teresa Catholic Church. Valdeavellano never married and did not have any children, but led a plentiful family life with his siblings, nieces and nephews.\n\nReferences\nBibliography\n"}
{"id": "56468972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56468972", "title": "American Society for Legal History", "text": "American Society for Legal History\n\nThe American Society for Legal History is a learned society dedicated to promoting scholarship and teaching in the field of legal history. It was founded in 1956 and has an international scope, despite being based in the United States. It sponsors the peer-reviewed journal \"Law and History Review\" and the book series \"Studies in Legal History\", both of which are published by Cambridge University Press. In 1957, the Society established the \"American Journal of Legal History\", which the Society originally published as its official journal. The journal was later acquired by the Temple University Beasley School of Law. It has been a member of the American Council of Learned Societies since 1973. \n"}
{"id": "17286057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17286057", "title": "Andrés de San Martín", "text": "Andrés de San Martín\n\nAndrés de San Martín (b. Seville - d. Cebu, 1521) was the chief pilot-cosmographer of the \"Armada del Maluco\", the fleet commanded by Ferdinand Magellan in 1519.\n\nHis nationality has been variously identified as Portuguese or French but archival records published in 1997 show San Martín was born in Seville. Antonio Pigafetta wrote he was from Seville, and there's every reason to believe the Vicentine diarist who knew the astrologer although they were not in the same \"nao\"; Pigafetta was in the flagship \"Trinidad\", while San Martín was assigned at first in \"San Antonio\" but later transferred to \"Victoria\".\n\nAndrés de San Martín was born in Seville, the son of Juan de Logroño and Juana Hernández. He had at least one brother, Cristóbal de San Martín, who was his heir. Andrés de San Martín had two daughters, Juana and María, with his partner Ana Martín, whom he never married.\n\nLittle is known of San Martín's life before 1512, when King Ferdinand commissioned him royal pilot.\n\nHis knowledge of cosmography (astrology) was singular. He knew more than others during the Age of Discovery how astronomical science could be applied to navigation. Confident of his unique skills he applied for the post of pilot major of Spain upon the death in 1512 of its holder, Amerigo Vespucci. He was unfortunately turned down by the King who appointed instead Juan Díaz de Solís. He again applied for the post in 1518 when Solís died. Again he was turned down in favor of another foreigner, Sebastian Cabot. Nevertheless, the King consoled San Martín by raising his pay to 10,000 maravedis.\n\nHe reported for duty upon order of the King sometime in July 1519. He received advances on July 31, 1519 of 30,000 maravedis and 7,500 maravedis for cost-of-living allowance.\n\nAt Rio de Janeiro, San Martín left \"San Antonio\" and transferred to \"Victoria\" where he remained until his presumed death at Cebu on May 1, 1521. There is no certainty he was one of those killed there. There were reliable reports later that some eight survived the massacre.\n\nAndrés de San Martín, according to Tim Joyner, was the most eminent cosmographer in the fleet, unequaled by no one in the fleet, not even by the greatest mariner of all time, Ferdinand Magellan. Twice, he was able to calculate accurately, using astronomical measurement, the longitudes of two places, Port San Julian at Patagonia and Homonhon Island in the Philippines. At San Julian, he brought out his instruments, to quote Tim Joyner, \"to test Faleiro's [Rodrigo (Ruy) Failero] system for using conjunctions of the moon with the planets to determine longitude. His measurements resulted in the astonishingly accurate estimate of 61° west of Seville. Less than one degree in error, this was an accomplishment far beyond the capabilities of the other pilots.\"\n\nAgain, at Homonhon Island, in central Philippines, he was able to measure its longitude, according to Rolando Laguarda Trías. Laguarda asserts that the reading of 189° longitude \"from the meridian\" which meant the line of demarcation at 47° \"west\" of Greenwich. In today's system of reckoning Homonhon Is. is at 125° 42.8' \"east\" longitude. This reading is only two degrees in error, Laguarda asserts. No other had shown such mathematical skill. Indeed, for two hundred years his calculations were not matched by anyone.\n\nSan Martín entrusted his priceless navigational notes and other papers to Ginés de Mafra sometime before May 1, 1521. These were confiscated when de Mafra together with co-prisoners Gómez de Espinosa and Hans Bergen reached Lisbon in July 1526. This lengthy possession by de Mafra of San Martín's papers has led to the belief voiced by geographer Donald D. Brand and embraced by Magellan historiographer Martin Torodash, who is cited by Philippine religious historian John Schummacher, S.J., for Brand's dictum, that the eyewitness account of Ginés de Mafra is nothing more than his recall of what he read from San Martín's papers. This has led to historians overall disregarding the testimony of de Mafra which has overarching importance in Age of Discovery geography of the Philippine region.\n\nIn fact, because de Mafra's observations may reflect as well the genius of San Martín, his testimony becomes doubly important.\nDe Mafra's account, more precisely, is critical and indispensable in solving the Mazaua landfall issue which is also known in the Philippines as the 'First mass in the Philippines' controversy.\n\nSan Martín's papers were kept at a Lisbon archive where these were consulted by Portuguese historians like Fernão Lopes de Castanheda, Gaspar Corrêa, Damião de Góis, João de Barros, and others.\n\nSan Martín's papers were later transferred to Madrid during the union of the Iberian kingdoms, 1580-1640. Antonio de Herrera y Tordesillas, as asserted by J. Denucé, extensively used San Martín's insights. One of the key observations of the astrologer pertaining the March–April 1521 incident at the island-port of Mazaua remained the sole faithful published account throughout the 16th century until the 19th century with the exact name of the island. Other accounts had either \"Messana\" or \"Massana\" as the island's name. These two names were first used by Maximilianus Transylvanus in his report of the circumnavigation contained in a letter to Cardinal Matthäus Lang, the archbishop of Salzburg. Transylvanus' report was published and became an overnight sensation in Europe. San Martín's papers unfortunately got lost and are nowhere to be found. They exist in the various quotes by contemporary Portuguese historians and later Spanish historians like Herrera.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "313656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=313656", "title": "Bridgewater Canal", "text": "Bridgewater Canal\n\nThe Bridgewater Canal connects Runcorn, Manchester and Leigh, in North West England. It was commissioned by Francis Egerton, 3rd Duke of Bridgewater, to transport coal from his mines in Worsley to Manchester. It was opened in 1761 from Worsley to Manchester, and later extended from Manchester to Runcorn, and then from Worsley to Leigh.\n\nThe canal is connected to the Manchester Ship Canal via a lock at Cornbrook; to the Rochdale Canal in Manchester; to the Trent and Mersey Canal at Preston Brook, southeast of Runcorn; and to the Leeds and Liverpool Canal at Leigh. It once connected with the River Mersey at Runcorn but has since been cut off by a slip road to the Silver Jubilee Bridge.\n\nOften, although mistakenly, considered to be the first true canal in England, it required the construction of an aqueduct to cross the River Irwell, one of the first of its kind. Its success helped inspire a period of intense canal building in Britain, known as Canal Mania. It later faced intense competition from the Liverpool and Manchester Railway and the Macclesfield Canal. Navigable throughout its history, it is one of the few canals in Britain not to have been nationalised, and remains privately owned. Pleasure craft now use the canal which forms part of the Cheshire Ring network of canals.\n\nFrancis Egerton, 3rd Duke of Bridgewater, owned some of the coal mines dug to supply North West England with fuel for the steam engines instrumental in powering England's Industrial Revolution. The duke transported his coal along the Mersey and Irwell Navigation and also by packhorse, but each method was inefficient and expensive; river transport was subject to the vagaries of river navigation, and the amount of coal packhorses could carry was limited by its relative weight. The duke's underground mines also suffered from persistent flooding, caused by the geology of the Middle Coal Measures, where the coal seam lies beneath a layer of permeable sandstone.\n\nHaving visited the Canal du Midi in France and watched the construction of the Sankey Canal in England, the duke's solution to these problems was to build an underground canal at Worsley, connected to a surface canal between Worsley and Salford. In addition to easing overland transport difficulties and providing drainage for his mines, an underground canal would provide a reliable source of water for the surface canal, and also eliminate the need to lift the coal to the surface (an expensive and difficult proposition). The canal boats would carry at a time, pulled by only one horse – more than ten times the amount of cargo per horse that was possible with a cart. The duke and his estate manager John Gilbert produced a plan of the canal, and in 1759 obtained an Act of Parliament, enabling its construction.\n\nJames Brindley was brought in for his technical expertise (having previously installed a pumping system at the nearby Wet Earth Colliery), and after a six-day visit suggested varying the route of the proposed canal away from Salford, instead taking it across the River Irwell to Stretford and thereon into Manchester. This route would make connecting to any future canals much easier, and would also increase competition with the Mersey and Irwell Navigation company. Brindley moved into Worsley Old Hall and spent 46 days surveying the proposed route, which to cross the Irwell would require the construction of an aqueduct at Barton-upon-Irwell. At the duke's behest, in January 1760 Brindley also travelled to London to give evidence before a parliamentary committee. The duke therefore gained a second Act of Parliament, which superseded the original.\n\nBrindley's planned route began at Worsley and passed southeast through Eccles, before turning south to cross the River Irwell on the Barton Aqueduct. From there it continued southeast along the edge of Trafford Park, and then east into Manchester. Although a connection with the Mersey and Irwell Navigation was included in the new Act, at Hulme Locks in Castlefield (on land previously occupied by Hulme Hall), this was not completed until 1838. The terminus would be at Castlefield Basin, where the nearby River Medlock was to help supply the canal with water. Boats would unload their cargoes inside the duke's purpose-built warehouse. There were no locks in Brindley's design, demonstrating his ability as a competent engineer. The Barton Aqueduct was built relatively quickly for the time; work commenced in September 1760 and the first boat crossed on 17 July 1761.\n\nThe duke invested a large sum of money in the scheme. From Worsley to Manchester its construction cost £168,000 (equivalent to £ in ), but its advantages over land and river transport meant that within a year of its opening in 1761, the price of coal in Manchester fell by about half. This success helped inspire a period of intense canal building, known as Canal Mania. Along with its stone aqueduct at Barton-upon-Irwell, the Bridgewater Canal was considered a major engineering achievement. One commentator wrote that when finished, \"[the canal] will be the most extraordinary thing in the Kingdom, if not in Europe. The boats in some places are to go underground, and in other places over a navigable river, without communicating with its waters\".\n\nIn addition to the duke's warehouse at Manchester, more buildings were built by Brindley and extended to Alport Street (now called Deansgate). The warehouses were of timber-frame design, with load-bearing hand-made brick walls, supported on cast iron posts. The duke's warehouse was badly damaged by fire in 1789 but was rebuilt.\nIn September 1761, with his assistant Hugh Oldham, Brindley surveyed an extension from Longford Bridge to Hempstones, near Halton, Cheshire. He assisted in obtaining Parliamentary approval for the Bridgewater Canal Extension Act of 1762 which allowed the construction of an extension to the canal, from Manchester, to the River Mersey at Runcorn. Despite objections from the Mersey and Irwell Navigation Company, Royal assent was given on 24 March 1762. A junction, Waters Meeting, was created in Trafford Park, at which the new extension branched south through Stretford, Sale, Altrincham, Lymm and finally to Runcorn.\n\nIn December 1761 Brindley undertook a survey of the route at Runcorn. His initial plan was to make the terminus at Hempstones, east of Runcorn Gap, but following a study of the tides and depth of water there, he decided instead to build the terminus west of Runcorn Gap. This change was designed to accommodate Mersey flats, although the low fixed bridges required that traffic on the canal be able to lower or unship their masts. Runcorn basin was almost above the Mersey, so a flight of ten locks, described as \"the wonder of their time\", was built to connect the two. Nine locks had a fall of , with a fall at the river lock of more than at low water. It allowed vessels to enter and leave the canal on any tide. The connection to the Mersey was made on 1 January 1773. The river's tidal action tended to deposit silt around the lower entrance to the locks, so to counteract this a channel, equipped with gates at each end and known as the Duke's Gut, was cut through the marshes upriver from the locks. At high tide the gates were closed, and with the ebb of the tide were opened to release water, which scoured the silt from the entrance to the locks. The cut created an island, known as Runcorn Island, crossed by Castle Bridge.\n\nThe connection to Manchester was delayed by Sir Richard Brooke of Norton Priory. Concerned that boatmen might poach his game and wildfowl, Brooke did not want the canal to pass through his land. The Act included several stipulations: the canal should not come within of his house; the towpath should be on the south side of the canal, furthest away from Brooke's house; there should be no quays, buildings, hedges or fences to obstruct the view; no vessels were to be moored within of the house, other than during construction. Eventually, though, a compromise was reached. This included the construction of a link to the Trent and Mersey Canal at Preston Brook (permitted by the Trent and Mersey Canal Act of 1766), and the building of the canal's terminus to the west of Runcorn Gap. The Trent and Mersey link gave the Duke access to the Midlands, and forestalled the Weaver Trustees from making their own junction with the canal. The new extension also met with opposition from the Mersey and Irwell Navigation, until the duke purchased a controlling interest in the company. The first part of the new extension was opened in 1767, and completed in full by March 1776, but Brindley did not live to see its completion; it was continued by his brother-in-law, Hugh Henshall.\n\nThe total cost of the canal, from Worsley to Manchester and from Longford Bridge to the Mersey at Runcorn, was £220,000. Alongside the Mersey, the duke built Runcorn Dock, several warehouses, and Bridgewater House, a temporary home from which he could supervise operations at the Runcorn end. Two locks up from the tideway was a small dry dock.\n\nIn 1766 the Duke gained a fourth act of parliament for a branch canal between Sale Moor and Stockport which was to follow the valley of the Mersey. The Act was applied for to counter a proposed canal that would give the towns of Stockport and Macclesfield access to the Mersey, via the River Weaver. The work was not done, the Act lapsed and this section of canal was never built.\n\nOver two decades later, the nearby Manchester Bolton & Bury Canal had sought a connection to other waterways, and it appears that the Duke had planned to limit the activities of the new company. On 15 December 1792 the Duke purchased a portion of the Ringspiggot estate in Salford which blocked the MB&BC's plans to build a riverside basin and wharfs there.\n\nIn 1795 the duke secured a fifth Act which enabled him to extend the canal a further from Worsley via Boothstown, Astley Green and Bedford to Leigh. The new extension enabled the supply to Manchester of coal from Leigh and the surrounding districts. On 21 June 1819 an Act of Parliament was enacted to create a link between this extension and the Wigan branch of the Leeds and Liverpool Canal.\n\nAccess to the canal brought about a rapid development in coal mining on the Manchester Coalfield west of Worsley. Chaddock pits in the east of Tyldesley were connected to an underground level from Worsley. In 1820, to ease congestion at the Delph in Worsley, Chaddock Pit was connected to the canal at Boothstown basin by an underground canal, the Chaddock Level which ran in a north west direction from the canal at Boothstown to the pit. Sometime after 1840 Samuel Jackson built a narrow gauge tramroad worked by horses from his Gin Pit Colliery to Marsland Green where he installed cranes and tipplers to load barges at a wharf. The tramroad was later worked by locomotives. In 1867 the Fletchers built a private railway line and the Bedford Basin with facilities for loading coal from Howe Bridge onto barges. Astley Green Colliery began winding coal on the north bank of the canal in 1912. In the 1940s and '50s coal was sent to Barton Power Station and Runcorn Gas Works.\n\nUpon completion of the Rochdale Canal in 1804, the two canals were joined at Castlefield. This connection may have been a factor in the failure of the Manchester Bolton & Bury Canal Company's rival scheme to build a canal between Bury and Sladen. The River Medlock, a major source of water for the canal and which was almost as badly polluted as the nearby Irwell, was diverted through a tunnel under the canal at Castlefield by Charles Edward Cawley, a civil engineer for the Salford Corporation and later MP for Salford. The canal was from that point supplied by the much purer water of the Rochdale Canal.\n\nWorsley Delph, in Worsley, originally a centuries-old sandstone quarry near Worsley Brook, was the entrance to the Navigable Levels. It is now a Scheduled Monument. Two entrances, built years apart, allow access to the specially built M-boats (also known as Starvationers), the largest of which could carry of coal. Inside the mines of underground canal on four levels, linked by inclined planes, were constructed. The mines ceased production in 1887. As the canal passes through Worsley, iron oxide from the mines has, for many years, stained the water bright orange. The removal of this colouration is currently the subject of a £2.5 million remedial scheme.\n\nIn 1791 the mines at Worsley produced of coal, of which were \"sold down the navigation\"; of rocksalt was also transported from Cheshire. Sales of coal were £19,455, and nearly £30,000 was earned from other cargoes. Passenger traffic in 1791 brought in receipts of £3,781.\n\nThe canal also carried passengers and was in keen competition with the Mersey and Irwell Navigation Company (M&IN). The journey down river by the latter route took eight hours (nine hours in the up direction) while the journey on the Bridgewater canal took nine hours each way. Fares were similar but the Bridgewater route was said to be \"more picturesque\". Boating men also used the canal. They lifted their small lightweight boats out of the M&IN at Runcorn, and carried them a short distance up the steep streets onto the Bridgewater Canal.\n\nBarges on the canal continued to be towed by horses until the middle of the 19th century, when they were replaced by steam-powered boats after a fatal epidemic spread through the horse population. The \"dense smoke\" produced by the steam barges and their \"harsh unnecessary whistling\" proved unpopular with some local residents, who also began to suffer from a condition known as canal throat, \"no doubt caused by the foul emanations given off by its [the Bridgewater Canal's] horribly filthy water\".\n\nThe canal carried commercial freight traffic until 1975; the last regular cargo was grain from Liverpool to Manchester for BOCM. It is now used mainly by pleasure craft and hosts two rowing clubs – Trafford Rowing Club and Manchester University Boat Club.\n\nThe Duke of Bridgewater died on 8 March 1803. By his will the income from the canal was to be paid to his nephew George Leveson-Gower, the Marquess of Stafford (later the 1st Duke of Sutherland). On his death it was to go to Stafford's second son Francis, provided he changed his name to Egerton; and then to his heirs and successors. The management of the company was placed in the hands of three trustees. These were Sir Archibald Macdonald, who was Lord Chief Baron of the Exchequer, Edward Venables-Vernon-Harcourt, at the time the Bishop of Carlisle and later the Archbishop of York, and, as Superintendent, Robert Haldane Bradshaw, the Duke's agent. Bradshaw managed the estate, for which he received a salary of £2,000 a year and the use of the duke's mansions at Worsley and Runcorn. The other two trustees had each married nieces of the duke and were \"dummy trustees\".\n\nDuring the time the canal was administered by the Bridgewater Trustees, it made a profit every year. Until his retirement in 1834, the administration was carried out entirely by Bradshaw. It has been calculated that the average annual profit between 1806 and 1826 was of the order of 13 per cent, and in 1824, the best year, it was 23 per cent. Bradshaw found it difficult to delegate, and complained of being over-worked, but he was also regarded as being a \"formidable bargainer\". In 1805 he was approached by the proprietors of the nearby Manchester Bolton & Bury Canal to resolve a dispute with a Salford landowner, but his response was delayed. In 1810 there was a general agreement with the Mersey and Irwell Navigation Company (M&IN) to simultaneously raise freight charges. However any cooperation between the two companies was short-lived and by 1812 the Mersey and Irwell had reduced their charges. Further competition was to come from other carriers who used the canal; in 1824 the traffic carried by private companies exceeded that carried by the Trustees for the first time. However, in time more profit came from \"tonnage traffic\" (that carried by private companies) than from the Bridgewater's own carriage of freight. Bradshaw's administration saw increased deterioration of the fabric of the canal, the locks, docks and warehouses. The undertakings were starved of capital largely owing to inadequate provision for it in the duke's will. There were also problems caused by silting around the entrance to the Mersey and by the changing channels of the river itself.\n\nDuring the 1820s there was increased dissatisfaction with the canals. They did not cope well with increasing volumes of cargo, and they were perceived as monopolistic, and the preserve of the landed gentry class. There was increased interest in the possibility of railway construction. The possible construction of a railway between Liverpool and Manchester was vigorously opposed by Bradshaw, who refused railway surveyors access to land owned by the Trustees. When the first bill was presented to parliament in 1825, the Trustees opposed and it was overthrown. However, later in the year Lord Stafford, possibly persuaded to do so by William Huskisson, invested £100,000 (one-fifth of the required capital), in the Liverpool and Manchester Railway. Following this the Trustees withdrew their opposition to the construction of the railway; they did not petition against the second bill, which was passed in 1826. At the same time as he made his investment in the railway, Lord Stafford advanced £40,000 for improvements to the canal. This was spent mainly on a second line of locks at Runcorn, which were completed in 1828, plus new warehouses at Manchester and Liverpool. The additional line of locks cost £35,000 and was used for traffic heading to Manchester, while the old line was used for traffic passing down to the Mersey.\n\nIn 1830 the new railway opened and by the end of the year was carrying freight. Bradshaw immediately went into competition by lowering the rates of carriage on the canal and by offering improved terms to the private carriers. By so doing he managed to maintain the volume of traffic carried by the canal, both freight and passengers, at a time when the country was suffering a trade depression. However Bradshaw's tactics led to a sharp decline in profits. At the same time costs were rising, partly due to the use of steamboats on the Mersey. Further competition came with the opening of the Macclesfield Canal in 1831 which gave separate access to Manchester from the Midlands. In November 1831 Bradshaw suffered a stroke, as a result of which he lost the use of his left arm and leg, and there is evidence that it also impaired his judgement.\n\nMatters came to a head in 1833, the year in which the canal made its lowest profit since the death of the Duke. On 19 July the Marquess of Stafford (now the 1st Duke of Sutherland) died and the profits from the canal passed to Francis Egerton. On 25 September Bradshaw's son, Captain James Bradshaw, who had been acting as a deputy superintendent to the Trustees, and who had been expected to succeed his father as Superintendent, committed suicide. The agent for both Francis Egerton and his older brother, who was now the 2nd Duke of Sutherland, was James Loch. The events that followed were \"stage-managed by Loch\". He reported to Francis Egerton that Bradshaw was no longer fit to be Superintendent, and then persuaded Bradshaw to retire on his full salary. It had been expected that he would appoint his other son, William Rigby Bradshaw, as his successor, but Loch persuaded him to appoint James Sothern in the position; Sothern had been the principal agent of the Trust since December 1832. He took over the position of Superintendent on 3 February 1834. The appointment of Sothern was not a success. Charges were made against him of dishonesty and of nepotism. He entered into disputes and disagreements with Loch, with Francis Egerton, and with the other two trustees. (Sir Archibald Macdonald had died in 1826; by this time his place had been taken by the 10th Earl of Devon). To avoid a costly lawsuit, at the end of 1836 Sothern agreed to retire on various conditions which included receipt of £45,000. On 1 March 1837, he was succeeded as Superintendent by James Loch.\n\nLoch was extremely busy and did not have time to deal with the detailed administration of the Trust. He therefore looked for a deputy to take on these duties. His first choice was Richard Smith who was the mine agent to the Trustees of the 1st Earl of Dudley. However this was perceived as poaching and it led to such controversy that Smith declined the offer and recommended his son, George Samuel Fereday Smith for the post. Fereday Smith was appointed as Deputy Superintendent in March 1837 on a salary of £600 a year, half of the salary which had been offered to his father. Loch immediately undertook a reorganisation of the administration and efficiency of the business, restored the agreement with the Old Quay Company to raise freight charges, and improved the facilities for passengers, including the introduction of \"swift boats\". By 1837, the Trustees employed around 3,000 people (including those working in the colliery and in Worsley Yard), making it one of the largest employers in the country at the time. Since the death of the Duke the amount of freight carried by the canal had almost trebled; in 1803 it carried of goods and in 1836 .\n\nIn 1843 a new dock, the Francis Dock, was opened at Runcorn. The late 1830s and early 1840s had seen increased competition between the Bridgewater Canal on the one hand, and other canal companies and the railways on the other. The most dangerous of the rivals was the Mersey and Irwell Navigation Company who started to reduce their rates again in 1840. This led to a price war between the two canal companies and the Liverpool and Manchester Railway, who had previously cooperated on rates. Eventually, in desperation, the Bridgewater Trustees bought the Mersey and Irwell and took over its ownership on 1 January 1844. During the same year competition with other canals was further reduced by agreements made with the Ellesmere and Chester Canal Company and with the Anderton Carrying Company. In 1844 the canal made a profit of £76,410, the second highest during the time it was administered by the Trustees.\n\nHaving seen off competition from other canal companies, the next major threat was to come from the railways. This was the period in the mid-1840s known as the Railway Mania. The railways competed with the canals in three ways; by building, or threatening to build, new lines which would be in direct competition with the canals; by amalgamation into giant companies (such as the Midland and the London and North Western companies), which gave them more political power; and by taking over ownership of canal companies. On 13 April 1844 \"The Times\" newspaper reported that the canal was to be emptied of water, and converted into a railway, although nothing came of this scheme. In 1845, in return for concessions, the Trustees supported the Grand Junction Railway in its campaign to build a more direct line to Liverpool, which crossed the Mersey over a bridge at Runcorn Gap. However the bill was overthrown in the House of Lords. Competition from the railways and other canals led to a decline in the trading and the profits between 1845 and 1848, but there was no \"disastrous collapse\". During this time the Trustees and their representatives were engaged in vigorous campaigns in Parliament to protect their interests.\n\nBy October 1844 a bonding warehouse had been built in Manchester and the first cargo to arrive was announced in a letter to the \"Manchester Guardian,\" later printed in \"The Times:\"\nHowever, this venture was less successful than expected, as is evidenced by a letter to \"The Observer\" later that year, also printed in \"The Times\":\n\nBetween 1849 and 1851 the competition between the Trustees and the railway companies intensified. Agreements and alliances were made and broken. Their major opponents were the London and North Western Railway and the Lancashire and Yorkshire Railway who reduced tariffs and took business away from the canals. For the first time the railways carried more trade between Liverpool and the towns of central Lancashire than the canals. The value of the traffic carried by the Bridgewater Canal in 1851 was the lowest in the time it was administered by the Trustees. In 1851 the Earl of Ellesmere hosted a visit to Manchester by Queen Victoria and Prince Albert. They stayed at Worsley Hall, with a view of the canal, and were given a trip between Patricroft railway station and Worsley Hall, on state barges. Large crowds had gathered to cheer the royal party, which apparently frightened the horses drawing the barge so much that they fell into the canal.\n\nThe Trustees spent much time between 1851 and 1855 in negotiations to ease the competition, especially that from the London and North Western Railway. The most likely allies seemed to be other railway companies, including the Shrewsbury and Birmingham and the Shrewsbury and Chester railway companies, and the Great Western Railway. Of these, the most likely seemed to be the Great Western Railway who, in their concern to expand northwards were willing to help the Trustees with the carriage of their traffic to the south. However years of negotiations came to no agreement and, in the end, the Trustees' railway deal was done with the London and North Western Railway, who agreed to cooperate with the onward passage of the Trustees' traffic.\n\nOn 28 June 1855 James Loch, the Superintendent, died and was succeeded by Hon. Algernon Fulke Egerton, Lord Ellesmere's third son. He was then aged 29, and had been educated at Harrow and Christ Church, Oxford; he had been destined for a political life and had no experience of managing coal mines or canals. Since James Loch had been appointed, he had been mainly in control of the management of the Trustees, assisted by his son George Loch. During this time the role of Fereday Smith had been diminished; initially appointed as Deputy Superintendent, his position was reduced to that of Principal Agent in 1845. With the arrival of the inexperienced Algernon Egerton, Fereday Smith had a much greater say in the management. During the previous four years the Lochs had been reluctant to invest in improvements to the canal or Runcorn Dock, despite the increasing demand for the passage of goods through the dock, and the profits made during these years became stagnant. Fereday Smith had been keen on expansion and now his opportunity came. He first reduced the top-heavy administration of the Trust, and then took on the planning of the expansion of the business. The steamers owned by the Trustees had been neglected and were in a poor state; these were repaired or sold.\n\nGeorge Loch, who had been opposed to using the Trustees' investments for improvements to the canals or docks, died in 1857. Between 1857 and 1872 the Trustees provided more capital for improvements from their own resources than at any previous time. The Runcorn and Weston Canal was built in 1858–59, providing a connection between Runcorn Docks and the Weaver Navigation. A new half tide dock, the Alfred Dock was opened at Runcorn in 1860. Electric telegraph was installed in 1861–62.\n\nIn 1862 the 2nd Earl of Ellesmere died and his son and heir, the 3rd Earl was a minor, aged 15. This gave Algernon Egerton even more power to invest the profits of the company in developments. Negotiations were made to increase sea-borne trade, both British and foreign, through the canal. Building started on a new dock at Runcorn in 1867. Work was carried out in the Mersey estuary around the docks to improve access for vessels. Some of this was carried out in conjunction with the London and North Western Railway who were building a bridge across Runcorn Gap to take their line from Weaver Junction to Liverpool; the railway paid half the cost of the improvements, amounting to about £20,000 (£ today). Improvements were made to the Trustees' facilities at Liverpool, to the Mersey and Irwell Navigation and to the Bridgewater Canal itself. Agreements were made with the railway companies to cooperate on the transit of goods and the rates of carriage and \"the Trustees' fortunes entered a calmer phase\".\n\nIn 1872 the Bridgewater Navigation Company Ltd was formed, and on Monday 9 September the canal was purchased in the names of Sir Edward William Watkin and William Philip Price, respectively chairmen of the Manchester, Sheffield and Lincolnshire Railway and the Midland Railway for £1,120,000. The canal was sold again in 1885, when the Manchester Ship Canal Company paid the Bridgewater Navigation Company £1,710,000 for all their property. The construction of the ship canal forced the removal of Barton Aqueduct and the construction of Barton Swing Aqueduct, as the former was too low for the vessels which would use the new canal. In 1907 The Manchester Ship Canal (Bridgewater Canal) Act 1907 was passed, permitting coal mining near the canal between Monton Bridge and Leigh, in exchange for which the mine owners were obliged to pay the associated costs of keeping the canal open and navigable.\n\nIn 1923 Bridgewater Estates Ltd was formed to acquire the Ellesmere family estate in Worsley. In 1984 Bridgewater Estates Ltd was purchased by a subsidiary of Peel Holdings. In 1987 Highams acquired a majority shareholding of the Manchester Ship Canal Company (subsequently the shares held by Highams were transferred to Peel Holdings). In 1994 the Manchester Ship Canal Company became a wholly owned subsidiary of the Peel Holdings group. In 2004 ownership of the Manchester Ship Canal Company was transferred to the Peel Ports group.\n\nThe Bridgewater is often mistakenly considered to be the first true canal in Britain, as it relied upon existing watercourses as sources of water rather than as navigable routes. It now terminates in Runcorn basin, just before the disused flight of 10 locks which (before the approach road to the Silver Jubilee Bridge was built) used to lower the canal to the Runcorn Docks on the River Mersey and later, to the Manchester Ship Canal. The old line of locks in Runcorn fell into disuse in the late 1930s, and they were closed under the Ship Canal Act of 1949 and filled in. The Ship Canal Act of 1966 allowed the closure and filling in of the newer line of locks. The gates from this flight of locks were removed and installed at Devizes on the Kennet and Avon Canal. The Duke's warehouse in Manchester was demolished in 1960.\n\nThe canal has suffered three breaches; one soon after opening, another in 1971 near the River Bollin aqueduct, and another in the summer of 2005 when a sluice gate failed in Manchester. Cranes are located at intervals along the canal's length to allow boards to be dropped into slots in the banks. These allow sections of the canal to be isolated in the event of a leak.\n\nThe canal now forms an integral part of the Cheshire Ring network of canals. Pleasure craft have been allowed on the canal since 1952.\n\nThe new road crossing of the Mersey now under construction may allow a realignment of the Bridge approach road and the complete restoration of the original flight of locks – thus re-opening the link to Runcorn Docks, the Runcorn and Weston Canal, the River Mersey, the Manchester Ship Canal, and the River Weaver. This would create a new ring route for leisure boats involving the Trent and Mersey Canal, the Anderton Boat Lift and the River Weaver.\n\nThe Hulme Locks Branch Canal in Manchester is now disused, and on 26 May 1995 was replaced by the nearby Pomona Lock.\n\nThe Bridgewater Way is a scheme to redevelop the canal and make it more accessible to users, particularly cyclists. The 40-mile development, which includes a new towpath, will form part of the National Cycle and Footpath Network as Regional Route number 82.\n\n\nNotes\nCitations\nBibliography\n\nFurther reading\n\n"}
{"id": "1091439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1091439", "title": "Bunshō", "text": "Bunshō\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2013678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013678", "title": "Civil registration", "text": "Civil registration\n\nCivil registration is the system by which a government records the vital events (births, marriages, and deaths) of its citizens and residents. The resulting repository or database has different names in different countries and even in different US states. It can be called a civil registry, civil register (but this is also an official term for an individual file of a vital event), vital records, and other terms, and the office responsible for receiving the registrations can be called a bureau of vital statistics, registry of vital records and statistics, registrar, registry, register, registry office (officially register office), or population registry. The primary purpose of civil registration is to create a legal document that can be used to establish and protect the rights of individuals. A secondary purpose is to create a data source for the compilation of vital statistics. In most countries, there is a legal requirement to notify the relevant authority of certain life events, such as births, marriages and death. The first country to establish a nationwide population register was France in 1539, using the registers of the Catholic Church. Sweden followed in 1631, on the basis of a register drawn up by the Church of Sweden on behalf of the Swedish king.\n\nThe United Nations defines civil registration as \"the continuous, permanent, compulsory and universal recording of the occurrence and characteristics of vital events pertaining to the population as provided through decree or regulation in accordance with the legal requirements of a country. Civil registration is carried out primarily for the purpose of establishing the legal documents required by law. These records are also a main source of vital statistics. Complete coverage, accuracy and timeliness of civil registration are essential to ensure the quality of vital statistics.\"\n\nVital events that are typically recorded on the register include live birth, death, foetal death, name, change of name, marriage, divorce, annulment of marriage, judicial separation of marriage, adoption, legitimization and recognition. Among the legal documents that are derived from civil registration are birth certificates, death certificates, and marriage certificates. A family register is a type of civil register which is more concerned with events within the family unit and is common in Continental European and Asian countries, such as Germany (\"\"), France, Spain, Russia (\"Propiska\"), China (\"Hukou\"), Japan (\"Koseki\"), and North and South Korea (\"Hoju\").\n\nAdditionally, in some countries, immigration, emigration, and any change of residence may require notification. A register of residents is a type of civil register primarily concerned with the current residence.\n\nCivil registration is faced with many challenges, both on the demand side and supply side, especially in the low income countries. The demand-side challenges include a lack of awareness of the need and importance of registration of vital events, and the situation is not helped by the many existing barriers to registration. For example, in 2009, the World Health Statistics of WHO estimated that only about 1% of the estimated deaths within low income groups are reported and just about 9% in lower-middle income groups. The registration systems in many cases are very difficult, causing potential barriers to accessing the registration. Furthermore, in certain societies, due to stigmatisation based on cultural and religious settings, single mothers may fear questions of paternity during notification through chief or community agents. From the supply side, challenges often involve different, and often conflicting, legal frameworks various stakeholders (health institution, civil registry, statistics agency), and as a result, many countries with \"burdensome procedures and non-standardized systems across a country, leading to confusion regarding what individuals need to do or present.\" Other challenges include accessibility of remote areas and also irregular migration caused by civil conflicts and porous borders.\n\nThere has been new developments in civil registration across the globe over the years. With the advent of enhanced and information and communication technology, civil registration has been moving from a paper-intensive, manual-based civil registration to more automated and digitalised systems. Some of the innovations implemented in civil registration include the use of e-birth notification systems, whereby the health officials are able to notify the national population registration system with new births. This system improve registration process, by timely feeding the system with information as soon as a birth occurs. Another innovation, such as that implemented by iCivil Africa in Burkina Faso, is the use of a mobile application to register newborns .\n\nIn Namibia, Civil registration mandate lies with the government through the Ministry of Home Affairs and Immigration, which has offices in all fourteen region of the country. Although some vital events (e.g., marriages) are recorded by various agencies (e.g., church and courts), vital records are contained in the National Population Register, which is maintained by the department of Civil Registration within the Ministry of Home Affairs and Immigration. In Namibia, civil registration and identity management systems are integrated and managed by one department. Over the years, Namibia has transformed its civil registration processes, moving away from the manual system to electronic system. In 2017, Namibia, which has at least 22 birth and registration offices based within the maternity wards of hospitals across the country, launched its e-birth notification system. This improvement is expected to \"improve the quality of vital statistics produced in the country. The system is also a welcome departure from the present mechanism of relying on surveys for estimations of birth registration rates and projections of the numbers of births each year.\"\n\nIn South Africa, vital records are contained in the National Population Register, which is maintained by the national Department of Home Affairs. Any Home Affairs office can record a vital event or issue a certified copy of a vital record.\n\nIn Burkina Faso, since 2015, a centralized CRVS (Civil Registration and Vital Statistics) is being implemented by the non governmental organization iCivil Africa. This \"new tech start up has set themselves a massive task: to register all newborn babies digitally\".\n\nFrance was the first country to create a national Registration. In 1539, King Francis I ordered in the Ordinance of Villers-Cotterêts, as part of a wider legislation regarding the policing of church benefices, to keep vital records registers in the various church local institutions (mainly parishes). The ordinance orderer the creation of at least a register of baptisms, as a proof of one's date of birth, and a register of burials of churchmen, as a proof of one's date of death. Though both registers were kept by religious authorities, they were authenticated by a public notary, always a layman, and were kept in the local royal administration's archives. In fact, as the church kept parish registers since the Middle Ages (the oldest one in France is Giry's, of 1303), these registers were used to meet the ordinance's dispositions.\n\nThe national registration was fully laicized in 1792 during the French Revolution by order of the French Republic. These records have been continued through the present and are kept at the departmental archives. The Civil Registration includes birth, marriage, divorce, and death records.\n\nIn the Netherlands, maintaining the civil registry (\"basisregistratie personen\") is the duty of the municipalities.\n\nBefore the French Rule, the Netherlands did not have a central registration of its population, which was introduced in some parts of the country in 1796 by the French. In 1811, this registration was introduced throughout the country. The Dutch differentiate between the \"basisregistratie personen\", an ongoing database of citizens' information, and the \"burgerlijke stand\", which is a collection (at the municipal level) of documents evidencing certain events taking place in a given municipality, such as birth, marriage, civil union, and death.\n\nBeginning on 1 January 1850, municipalities were obliged to keep citizen's records in book form (Dutch: bevolkingsregister). Early in the twentieth century this system was replaced by a card system that registered families. The move toward individual registration took place in 1939 with the introduction of the \"persoonskaart\", a single card registering a single individual, kept in the municipality. Information gathered on this card included family name, first names, gender, position within the family, date and place of birth, marital status, address, and church affiliation, besides information on when a person entered and left a municipality.\n\nIn 1940, the Dutch government did not want to mandate citizen's identification, but during World War II the German occupying government mandated it so they could assess who was to be sent to Germany as forced labor and to select Jewish citizens from the general population. When the war was over, mandatory identification was done away with.\n\nIn the 1990s all local registries were automated, and starting on 1 October 1994 the individual registration card was replaced with a digital list containing a person's information as collected by the \"gemeentelijke basisadministratie van persoonsgegevens\" (in 2015 replaced with the 'basisregistratie personen'), kept and maintained at the municipal level. Municipalities exchange information through a closed network at the end of each day to a nationwide database, which can be consulted by officials online. Though it was generally considered \"un-Dutch,\" on 1 January 2005 mandatory identification (when asked by a mandated person) was reintroduced for everyone over 14; official identification is to be presented for all important transactions between citizens and government.\n\nCivil registries were introduced in 1806-1812 during the Russian occupation, and they followed the Tsarist model of keeping them with church records. By the \"Communal Law\" (\"Legea comunală\") of 31 March 1864 subsequent record keeping became the responsibility of the mayor in each dwelling, who was allowed to delegate it to one of his helpers. An effort by the state to gather the ancient historical records happened around 1926-1932 but in some cases as late as 1948-1952; a good number of these early records were lost in this process, sometimes literally by the truckload.\n\nIn Sweden, the civil registry is maintained by the Swedish Tax Agency (\"Skatteverket\"); up into the 1990s the Church of Sweden was responsible. Recording of births and deaths was stipulated in the early 17th century, formal national censuses have been made since the mid-18th century, and Sweden has one of the longest and most comprehensive suites of civil records of any country.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, civil registration was first introduced with the Births and Deaths Registration Act 1836 which affected England and Wales. The General Register Office for England and Wales was set up and the civil registration of births, marriages, and deaths in England and Wales was became mandatory on 1 July 1837. Initially the onus lay on registrars to discover and record events, so parents only had to supply information if and when asked. In 1875, the Births & Deaths Act 1874 came into force, whereby those present at a birth or death were required to report the event. Subsequent legislation introduced similar systems in Ireland (all of which was then part of the United Kingdom) on 1 April 1845 for Protestant marriages and on 1 January 1864 for all birth, marriage and death events. Civil registration was introduced in Scotland on 1 January 1855.\n\nThe administration of individual registration districts is the responsibility of \"registrars\" in the relevant local authority. There is also a national body for each jurisdiction. The local offices are generally responsible both for maintaining the original registers and for providing copies to the national body for central retention. A \"superintendent registrar\" facilitates the legal preliminaries to marriage, conducts civil marriage ceremonies and retains in his/her custody all completed birth, death and marriage registers for the district. The office of the superintendent registrar is the district register office, often referred to (informally) in the media as the \"registry office\".\n\nToday, both officers may also conduct statutory civil partnership preliminaries and ceremonies, citizenship ceremonies and other non statutory ceremonies such as naming or renewal of vows. Certified copies of the entries made by the registrars over the years are issued on a daily basis either for genealogical research or for modern legal purposes such as supporting passport applications or ensuring eligibility for the appropriate junior sports leagues.\n\nOn 1 December 2007 registrars and superintendent registrars became employees of their local authority for the first time following the enactment of the Statistics and Registration Service Act 2007.\n\nBirths in England and Wales must be registered within 42 days, whilst deaths must be registered within 5 days unless an inquest is called or a post mortem is held.\n\nMarriages are registered at the time of the ceremony by either\n\nThe official registers are not directly accessible by the general public. Instead, indexes are made available which can be used to find the relevant register entry and then request a certified copy of the details.\n\nThe General Register Office—now merged into the Office for National Statistics—has overall responsibility for registration administration.\n\nCivil registration came into force in Scotland on 1 January 1855. A significant difference from the English system is the greater detail required for a registration. This means that if a certified copy of an entry is requested, it will contain much more information.\n\nThe General Register Office for Scotland has overall responsibility for registration administration and drafting legislative changes in this area (as well as census data). They are governed by the Registration of Births, Deaths and Marriages (Scotland) Act 1965 and subsequent legislation (responsibility for which has now been devolved to the Scottish Parliament).\n\nIn Mexico, vital records (birth, death and marriage certificates) are registered in Registro Civil, as called in Spanish. Each state has its own registration form. Until the 1960s, birth certificates were written by hand, in a styled-cursive calligraphy (almost unreadable for the new generations) and typically issued on security paper. After the 1960s, they were issued typed by machine.\n\nCurrently all copies (from people born before and after the 1960s) are standardized in brown-security paper and are typed automatically by a computer and the CURP, (control identification number in Mexico) and the specific dates of issuing are already issued.\n\nIn the United States, vital records such as birth certificates, death certificates, and frequently marriage certificates are maintained by the Office of Vital Statistics or Office of Vital Records in each individual state. Other documents such as deeds, mortgage documents, name change documents, and divorce records, as well as marriage certificates for those states not centralizing these records, are maintained by the Clerk of Court of each individual county. However, the term 'civil registry' is not used.\n\nIn the Philippines, civil registrations are maintained by the Philippine Statistics Authority.\n\nIn Australia civil registrations are carried out and maintained by state administrations. Tasmania began registrations in 1838, Western Australia in 1841, South Australia in 1842, Victoria in 1853, Queensland and New South Wales in 1856, Northern Territory in 1870, and Australian Capital Territory in 1911. Prior to those dates, records of baptisms, marriages and burials were kept by individual churches. Because early civil registration often involved the churches, it is sometimes difficult to distinguish whether early records are civil or church records. Civil registration was carried out by government employees independent of the churches. The information recorded in records varies from state to state. South Australia calls the appropriate central registry the Principal Registrar of Births, Deaths and Marriages and in Victoria it is the Government Statist Registry of Births, Deaths and Marriages. The other states call the registry the Office of the Registrar General of Births, Deaths and Marriages.\n\n\nAustralia:\n\nRepublic of Ireland:\n\nUnited Kingdom:\n\nUnited States:\n"}
{"id": "3993649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3993649", "title": "Cold War (1979–1985)", "text": "Cold War (1979–1985)\n\nThe Cold War (1979–1985) refers to the phase of a deterioration in relations between the Soviet Union and the West arising from the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan in December 1979. With the election of British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher in 1979, and United States President Ronald Reagan in 1980, a corresponding change in Western foreign policy approach toward the Soviet Union was marked with the abandonment of détente in favor of the Reagan Doctrine policy of rollback, with the stated goal of dissolving Soviet influence in Soviet Bloc countries. During this time, the threat of nuclear war had reached new heights not seen since the Cuban Missile Crisis.\n\nThe Soviet Union invaded Afghanistan following the Saur Revolution in that country, ultimately leading to the deaths of around one million civilians. Mujahideen fighters succeeded in forcing a Soviet military withdrawal in 1989. In response, U.S. President Jimmy Carter announced a U.S.-led boycott of the Moscow 1980 Summer Olympics. In 1984, the Soviet Union responded with its own boycott of the 1984 Summer Olympics in Los Angeles, California. Tensions increased when the U.S. announced they would deploy Pershing II missiles in West Germany, followed by Reagan's announcement of the U.S. Strategic Defense Initiative and were further exacerbated in 1983 when Reagan branded the Soviet Union an \"evil empire\".\n\nIn April 1983, the United States Navy conducted FleetEx '83-1, the largest fleet exercise held to date in the North Pacific. The conglomeration of approximately forty ships with 23,000 crewmembers and 300 aircraft, was arguably the most powerful naval armada ever assembled. U.S. aircraft and ships attempted to provoke the Soviets into reacting, allowing U.S. Naval Intelligence to study Soviet radar characteristics, aircraft capabilities, and tactical maneuvers. On April 4, at least six U.S. Navy aircraft flew over one of the Kurile Islands, Zeleny Island, the largest of a set of islets called the Habomai Islands. The Soviets were outraged and ordered a retaliatory overflight of the Aleutian Islands. The Soviet Union also issued a formal diplomatic note of protest, which accused the United States of repeated penetrations of Soviet airspace. In the following September, the civilian airliner Korean Air Lines Flight 007 was downed by Soviet fighter jets over nearby Moneron Island.\n\nIn November 1983, NATO conducted a military exercise known as \"Able Archer 83\". The realistic simulation of a nuclear attack by NATO forces caused considerable alarm in the USSR and is regarded by many historians to be the closest the world came to nuclear war since the Cuban missile crisis in 1962.\n\nThis period of the Cold War would continue through U.S. President Reagan's first term (1981–1985), through the death of Soviet leader Leonid Brezhnev in 1982, the brief interim period of Soviet leadership consisting of Yuri Andropov (1982–1984) and Konstantin Chernenko (1984–1985). This phase in the Cold War concluded in 1985 with the ascension of reform-minded Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev who brought a commitment to reduce tensions between the East and the West and bring about major reforms in Soviet society. \n\nDuring the 1970s, the United States and the Soviet Union had pursued a policy of détente, whereby both sides trying to improve their geopolitical situation while minimizing the risk of direct war between the superpowers. Extensive trade ties were established between nations of both blocs, to the point that approximately 70 percent of the Soviet Union's grain came from the United States. In 1975, steps to expand political ties between NATO and Soviet-bloc nations (i.e. Ostpolitik) culminated in the signing of the Helsinki Accords. Additionally, several major arms control agreements were signed, such as SALT I & II.\n\nAdditionally, efforts were taken by the United States to secure a peace treaty to end its participation in the Vietnam War. To this end, Nixon attempted to induce China to support the peace process and proceeded to make a historic trip to the communist nation. While this outreach to China would ultimately fail to avert communist victory in the Vietnam War, it is still regarded one of the most important geopolitical acts of the 20th century, fundamentally altering the Cold War dynamic between the U.S. and the USSR.\n\nWhile such efforts toward détente were generally supported by the publics of both sides (for example 68 percent of Americans believed that Nixon's China Trip would improve world peace) there were still critics of such efforts. In the United States, conservatives such as Barry Goldwater condemned détente, going onto say, \"Our objective must be the destruction of the enemy as an ideological force possessing the means of power\" and warning that trade with the Soviet Union assists in the maintenance of Soviet hegemony in Eastern Europe. American opposition to détente was also shared by members of the American left, such as Sen. Henry \"Scoop\" Jackson, who believed the Soviet Union needed to be aggressively confronted by the United States. Despite these criticisms, détente continued throughout the 1970s, enjoying support from members of both sides of the American political divide, with both parties nominating pro-détente candidates in the 1976 Presidential Election (President Ford vs. Governor Jimmy Carter.)\n\nIn Western Europe, there was also some opposition to détente. As a consequence of West German Chancellor Willy Brandt's \"Ostpolitik,\" the West German government repudiated all claims east of the Oder-Niesse river, forfeiting claims historic German territory that had been lost at the end of World War II. While this move helped ease fears of German revanchism against the Soviet Union and Poland, it drew criticism from Brandt's chief opponent, the centre-right Christian Democratic Union (CDU.)\n\nIn the Soviet Union itself, dissidents such as Andrei Sakharov (also former member of the Soviet nuclear program), warned that Western security was threatened if détente wasn't accompanied by liberalization in the Soviet Union. Soviet and Eastern human rights activists came under renewed assault during this time period by communist intelligence services, such as the KGB. The absence of significant western criticism of continued human rights abuses resulted in rising discontent among Eastern European dissidents, with Czech playwright (and future President) Vachlav Havel labeling détente as \"naive, thickheaded.\"\n\nThis era of relative cooperation wasn't without conflict. Throughout the era of détente, both sides continued their stockpiling of nuclear weapons, along with delivery systems for those weapons. The emergence of Multiple Independently Targetable Reentry Vechiles (MIRVs) radically increased both the Soviet Union's and the United States' killing capacity in the event of a nuclear war and increased the possibility of a preventive strike. SALT II was signed in 1979 in an attempt to contain the expansion of MIRVs. However, this treaty wasn't ratified by the U.S. Senate due to the Soviet Invasion of Afghanistan in December of that year.\n\nBoth the Soviet Union and the United States had taken an interest in Afghanistan during the Cold War vying for influence in the neutral mountainous country. To this end, both the Soviet Union and the United States undertook massive infrastructure projects in the underdeveloped nation. So generous was superpower aid that the Afghan Prime Minister Mohammad Hashim Maiwandwal once said that, \"he could light his American cigarettes with Russian matches.\"\n\nAfghanistan witnessed a period of rising political instability that began with the overthrow of King Zahir Shah in 1973. During the period, Afghanistan witnessed a massive growth in the size of its communist movement, particularly in the ranks of the Afghan military. This culminated in the 1978 Saur Revolution, where by members of the People's Democratic Party of Afghanistan, a Soviet-backed Marxist–Leninist party, seized power in a bloody coup.\n\nThe communists initiated a radical social and political revolution which saw the liquidation of large numbers of dissidents and \"class enemies.\" The coup and subsequent political violence provoked a civil war between the Marxist state and its non-communist opponents, which included, among others, radical Islamists. The deterioration of the communists military position prompted the Soviet Union to intervene in the conflict. The entrance of the Soviet Union into the Afghanistan War is widely credited with ending support for détente and provoked a series of retaliatory responses from the United States, such as the aforementioned withdrawal from SALT II, as well as the imposition of a grain embargo, the boycotting of the 1980 Moscow Summer Olympics, and the beginning of weapons sales to Afghan anti-Soviet rebels. Additionally, it diplomatically isolated the Soviet Union on the world stage, particularly in the Middle East.\n\nThe election of Ronald Reagan is widely heralded as a turning point in the relationship between the United States and the Soviet Union. According to Henry Kissinger, Reagan was \"the first postwar President to take the offensive both ideologically and strategically.\" While Carter had initiated a military buildup after the Soviet intervention in Afghanistan, it would be under the Reagan Administration that the United States would aggressively buildup its conventional and nuclear stockpile, marking a renewed period of competition in place of cooperation.\n\nIn 1984, journalist Nicholas Lemann interviewed Reagan Secretary of Defense Caspar Weinberger and summarized the strategy of the Reagan administration to roll back the Soviet Union:\nLemann notes that when he wrote that in 1984, he thought the Reaganites were living in a fantasy world. But in 2016, he says, that passage represents \"a fairly uncontroversial description of what Reagan actually did.\"\n\nThe Reagan strategy also included escalating conflicts the Soviets were involved in, especially the Soviet-Afghan war and the Central American crisis. It included diplomatic moves to persuade Western European governments to host American missiles pointed at the Soviet Union. Additionally in included an attempt to construct a space based anti-ballistic missile defense known as the Strategic Defense Initiative (However many critics dubbed it \"Star Wars.\")\n\nThe strategies were continued until the Revolutions of 1989. People in the Eastern European satellite states revolted against their dictatorships and became parliamentary democracies. Russian people ended their communist system in 1991. Without support from Moscow, many subsidized communist movements in the Asia, Africa, and Latin America virtually collapsed.\n\nIn the 1970s, the Polish economy had experienced a period of declining productivity, cultimating in the nations first post-WWII recession in 1979 In 1980, striking workers at the Gdansk Shipyard announced the formation of Solidarity, a non-communist trade union. On Aug. 31, 1980, the Polish government agreed to many of the union's demands, including its legalization, making Solidarity (now 10 million members strong) the first trade union in the Warsaw Pact to not be under the control of the communist government.\n\nThroughout the following year, Poland experienced growing political chaos as the Solidarity protests spread across the country, threatening the survival of the communist state. On Dec. 31, 1981, General Jaruzelski, head of the Polish military, declared a state of martial law across Poland, ordering the arrest of members of Solidarity and other opposition organizations.\n\nDuring the period leading up to the declaration of martial law by Poland's government, there was speculation on both sides of the Iron Curtain about the specter of a Soviet military intervention in the crisis, similar to previous Soviet interventions in Eastern Europe (i.e. Hungarian Revolution, Prague Spring.) However, the Soviets ultimately decided against direct intervention in Poland out of fear of western economic sanctions on the Soviet Union.\n\nPoland would remain in a state of martial law until 1984, when the Polish government began gradually releasing members of the Polish opposition from prison. The conflict between Solidarity and the Jaruzelski government would ultimately come to an end in 1989, with the democratization of Poland and the defeat of the ruling communist party in Poland's first free post-World War II elections.\n\nDuring the 1970s, the Soviet Union had developed a new class of intermediate range ballistic missiles capable of carrying nuclear weapons. By the end of 1979, it deployed 130 SS-20 missiles capable of launching over 390 warheads to the western part of the Soviet Union and to allied Warsaw Pact states. This move set off alarms in the NATO alliance, which was dependent upon tactical nuclear superiority to offset the Soviets conventional superiority.\n\nIn order to enhance the nuclear deterrence of the NATO alliance, member states committed to deploy several hundred missiles to Western Europe, mainly Pershing II.\n\nDuring the Cold War prior to the 1970s and 1980s, the primary heavy strategic bomber of the United States Air Force was the B-52 Stratofortress. However, the development of more sophisticated Airborne Early Warning and Control (AWACS) technology rendered the B-52 more vulnerable to attacks from the ground and enemy fighters. The Air Force saw a need for a bomber that could go faster, was more maneuverable, and could still deliver a substantial payload to its target. This led to the development of the B-1A Lancer in the early to mid 1970s. The B-1A program was cancelled in 1977 but was later brought back by President Reagan in 1981 under its new and current designation, the B-1B. The B-1B is capable of speeds at or above Mach 1.2 and can deliver a payload of 75,000 pounds. The Lancer was a nuclear capable bomber until 1994 when the nuclear mission for the bomber was cancelled, and it was switched to conventional weapons.\n\nAnother weapon that was produced during this time frame was the Pershing II Medium-range Ballistic Missile (MRBM). The Pershing II was first deployed in Europe in 1983. It had a range of around 1,000 miles and carried a single W-85 variable yield nuclear warhead, which had a yield between five and 80 kilotons. Although this warhead has a smaller yield than the W-50 warhead (up to 150 kilotons), the increased accuracy of the Pershing II missile meant that there was not a need for large yield warheads. Instead, the missile was capable of striking very close to its target using its radar and inertial guidance units.\n\n“Never, perhaps, in the postwar decades has the situation in the world been as explosive and, hence, more difficult and unfavorable as in the first half of the 1980's.” - Mikhail Gorbachev, February 1986 Supposedly one of the closest calls during this period of the Cold War happened during the Able Archer exercise performed by the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) in 1983. Able Archer 83 was a realistic military simulation exercise performed in November 1983. As part of the exercise, the NATO forces simulated a full-scale nuclear assault which may have invoked an unexpected response from the Soviet Union. After they had received information on what appeared to be a mobilization of NATO forces in Europe, many military officials in the Soviet Union believed that the United States was using the exercise to disguise a strategic nuclear first strike. This led to an unusual response from the Soviet Union. This response involved Soviet military units in East Germany and Poland being put on alert, an abnormal amount of reconnaissance flights.*\n\nThroughout the 70s and 80s, the general public became increasingly concerned with the continuous and growing threat of war and nuclear war in particular, and the - by then - international peace and anti-nuclear movements grew dramatically with many protests, happenings and activist events to spread awareness and push for disarmaments and change political agendas. The movements were most active in Europe, the US, Canada and Japan and a culmination was reached in 1982, June 12, when a million people marched in New York for an end to the Cold War arms race and nuclear weapons. It is the largest gathering of protesters in American history.\n\nThe early 1980s saw a continued Afghan resistance to the Soviet invasion. The United States and other anti-Soviet nations, such as Saudi Arabia, Iran and Pakistan, provided material assistance to the Afghan rebels, who were often referred to as the \"Mujaheddin\" (Arabic for \"holy warriors.\") The United States provided approximately $750 million year to the Afghan rebels, largely via the CIA. This support for the Afghan rebels, which would ultimately go onto include sales of anti-aircraft \"Stinger\" missiles, is widely considered as being instrumental in denying the Soviet Union victory in Afghanistan.\n\nIn addition to the Afghan War, the Middle East saw several other conflicts during this era. The Iran-Iraq War, pitted the new Islamic revolutionary government of Iran against the Iraqi Baathist state led by Saddam Hussein. Despite fighting an Iraq that was armed by the both the Soviet Union and the West, Iran fought the invaders to a standstill. The war remained a stalemate until 1988, when a \"status quo ante-bellum\" cease-fire was arranged between the two parties. The war had claimed the lives of over a million people.\n\nThe era also saw the continuation of the Lebanese Civil War (1975–1990), with the American-backed Israelis and the Soviet backed Syrians fighting alongside various Lebanese political factions that they in turn supported.\n\nIn Africa, neither the Soviet Union nor the United States got directly involved in the numerous conflicts raging on the continent. However, several African civil wars turned into proxy wars involving foreign powers, with South African and Cuban soldiers fighting one another in the Angolan Civil War. Other conflicts in Africa were the Ethiopian Civil War, the War in Mozambique, and the Second Sudanese Civil War. This combined with a total of 20 successful coups meant that Africa was a continued source of instability throughout the 1980s.\n\nAlong with the various military confrontations going on across the continent, South Africa, then still under the control the \"apartheid\" government, faced increasing isolation due to both its domestic repression of the indigenous black population and its assertive foreign policy. Soviet-bloc states continued their sponsorship of the ANC and other anti-Apartheid movements sending both lethal and non-lethal aid. South Africa witnessed increasing instability as both civil disobedience and militant violence against the Pretoria government intensified. In western countries, such as the United States, there was a growing movement calling for the suspension of economic relations with South Africa, often referred to as the Disinvestment Movement. While the movement failed to bring about an immediate end to Western trade with South Africa, by the end of the decade the United States Congress would pass (over President Reagan's veto) the Comprehensive Anti-Apartheid Act, which combined with other nations taking similar measures would strike a major blow to the South African economy.\n\nIn the mid–1970s and early 1980s, evidence of biological warfare had appeared in Afghanistan, Laos, and Kampuchea (or Cambodia). The substance commonly found in many of the attacks was T-2 mycotoxin, a trichothecene mycotoxin which became notorious for its role in the “Yellow Rain” attacks in the three countries mentioned previously. It is called yellow rain because the substance was usually associated with a yellow color and many of those who witnessed an attack described the substance as sounding like rain when it fell to the ground. The chemical agent was delivered by many different means including: aircraft rockets and bombs, spray tanks, mortar shells, grenades, and traps.\n\nThese chemicals were believed to be either supplied or delivered by the Soviets and were used in at least some of over 400 attacks and contributed to at least a fraction of over ten thousand deaths during these attacks. This chemical agent had many severe symptoms including but not limited to: vomiting, damage to the nervous system, skin and eye irritation, vision impairment or loss, and diarrhea.\n\nFollowing a few years of armed exchanges between the Soviet Union backed Vietnamese and the Chinese backed Cambodian armies, Vietnam launched a full-scale invasion of Cambodia on Christmas Day in 1978. The decision to invade Cambodia was instigated by Cambodia from their many attacks on the Vietnamese, which peaked in 1977-78.\n\nThe Malayan Communist Party (MCP) launched their second insurgency on June 17, 1968, twenty years after their first insurgency. On that day, the MCP launched an attack which killed 17 members of security forces near Kroh-Bentong. However, things would quickly take a turn for the worse when, in 1970, issues began to arise within the MCP. It was believed that government spies had infiltrated the MCP and began working to divide the group. Many members of the MCP started to accuse each other of working with the government, and if they were found to actually be government agents, would usually be put to death. By late 1974, the government agents’ actions had proved successful. The MCP had split into two main groups. The remnants of the MCP grew weaker and weaker and by 1987 the last remaining groups surrendered. Thus, it marked the end of the MCP insurgency.\n\nThe year 1979 witnessed the overthrow of the ruling Somoza family in Nicaragua and their subsequent replacement by the left-wing Sandinista movement, lead by Daniel Ortega. The incoming Reagan Administration was committed to the removal of the Nicaraguan government and armed anti-communist revolutionary forces, commonly referred to as the \"Contras.\" In late 1983, the United States Congress limited the Reagan Administration to only $24 million in aid for the Contras. The attempts by members the Reagan Administration to illegally circumvent these restrictions resulted in the Iran-Contra Scandal.\n\nConcerned that Nicaragua was the first \"domino\" to fall in Central America, the United States increased arms sales to friendly governments in Honduras, Guatemala, and El Salvador, each of whom were dealing with their own leftist-insurgencies. US aid peaked in 1985 at $1.2 billion before declining to a mere $167 million by 1996 (almost all of the latter was non-military aid.)\n\nColombia witnessed the continuation of their several decade long civil war with the American backed government of Julio Cesar Turbay Ayala fighting various Marxist rebels and drug smugglers. The dominant rebel group, Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC), received financial and material support from the Cuban government.\n\nNone of these conflicts would be resolved by the midpoint of the decade, lasting until the early 1990s, or in the case of the FARC insurgency, until 2017.\n\nIn 1981, the Chairman of the KGB, Yuri Andropov, and General Secretary Leonid Brezhnev launched the largest ever Soviet intelligence gathering campaign, Operation RYAN (Russian: \"Raketno Yadernoye Napadenie (Ракетно ядерное нападение)\", meaning \"nuclear missile attack\"). The purpose of this exercise was to deploy operatives to collect as much information as possible on the possibility of a nuclear first strike from the U.S. or other NATO powers.\n\nThis eight year watchdog initiative seemed to unnerve rather than reassure the USSR. With all of the information flowing in, it was unclear which piece of intelligence marked the initiation of a preemptive strike, which would call for immediate action from the Soviet side, before the U.S. could even get weapons in the air. When the U.S. rolled out a new class of intermediate-range ballistic missiles, the Pershing II, the KGB knew that the Americans were ready to strike, and if it was a preemptive strike, the Soviet arsenal of retaliatory weapons would be at a high risk. In February 1983, the KGB doubled down on Operation RYAN, focusing on any possible indication of a U.S. plan to attack and exponentially increasing tensions.\n\nKorean Air Lines flight 007 (KAL-007) was headed toward Seoul, South Korea from Anchorage, AK on Sept. 1, 1983. On its way, the flight passed over the Soviet Kamchatka Peninsula, which was not a part of the flight plan. Soviet fighters launched air-to-air missiles and shot down the passenger plane under orders from Soviet commanders. KAL-007 crashed into the Pacific Ocean, and the 269 souls on board were lost. Among the dead was Larry McDonald, a US Congressman from Georgia.\n\nThe timing of this event along with the multiple other conflicts between the U.S. and the Soviet Union in 1983 created an political climate of high tension which could have quickly escalated to disastrous actions by either side in response.\n\nJust as the USSR intensified its scrutiny of nuclear activity through Operation RYAN, the U.S. and NATO began their most advanced, in-depth, and realistic war simulation yet, known as Able Archer. Launched in November 1983, what made this particular war-game so different, and ultimately so consequential, was the inclusion of an end-game scenario that simulated the nuclear option should the war reach such a level.\n\nSoviet intelligence was able to gather that this new aspect had been included, but they were unable to tell whether or not it was all part of the game, or if there was a potential threat of actual nuclear weapons being released. This escalation in the type of simulation being performed by NATO combined with the presence of Pershing II missiles in West Germany put the USSR on edge. On top of a reported increase in communications from Warsaw forces in East Germany, there was an unusually high number of surveillance flights and large amounts of armed and ready Mig-23s were stationed near the border. Reports from Soviet sources also claim that certain forces were placed on high alert and multiple SS-20 and SS–19 mobile strategic nuclear missiles were moved and waiting.\n\nMany scholars list this event as the closest the world came to nuclear war since the Cuban Missile Crisis, while others argue that the USSR's actions were not far from standard operating procedure during NATO war-games, perhaps erring on the side of caution due to the presence of the new Pershing II missiles. Most agree that the accumulating effects of this event and so many others in such a short period caused 1983 to be one of the most intense and nearly disastrous years of the Cold War.\n\nLeonid Brezhnev was Soviet Union's leader for 18 years from 1964 until his death in 1982. Brezhnev's health was starting to decline due to his heavy smoking and addiction to sleeping pills toward the end of his time leading the Soviet Union. When Brezhnev's health got worse, the Soviet Union started having issues because he could not run the country.\n\nBrezhnev tried to help lower nuclear tensions between the Soviet Union and the United States. In 1979, the Brezhnev and United States President Jimmy Carter signed a SALT II agreement. The agreement was a new bilateral strategic arms limitation treaty. However, on December 27, 1979, the Soviet Union invaded Afghanistan, so the United States Senate never ratified the treaty. Hafizullah Amin played a large role in the Soviet Union invading Afghanistan. Amin's relationship with the Soviet Union was decent but was eventually strained, which was one reason the Soviet Union invaded Afghanistan.\n\nBrezhnev help grow the Soviet Union's economy and compete with the United States in an arms race during the 1970s. The 1980s was a different story. Because of Brezhnev's poor health, he could not lead the Soviet Union, which hurt their economy, military, living standards, and politics. Brezhnev had to start relying more on his advisors because of his health. Brezhnev's advisors would make critical decisions, and Brezhnev eventually became a figurehead for the Soviet Union. But political corruption spread throughout the Soviet leadership. Brezhnev was eventually criticized for the poor quality of life the Soviet Union's citizens had in the late 1970s and early 1980s.\n\nYuri V. Andropov succeeded Leonid Brezhnev, however Andropov's presidency did not last long. He was only the Soviet Union's leader for 15 months, from November 1982 to February 1984. Andropov quickly got ill in February 1983, and his health was bad enough that he had to start staying in a hospital frequently. Andropov spent his last few days in a hospital before he died in February 9, 1984.\n\nAndropov wanted to clean up Soviet corruption Andropov and attempted a systemic reform. He dismissed many party ministers and secretaries due to their corruption. Andropov also established the Soviet Union's rational state-society relations, which was designed to ceate resistance from both the elites and the masses. The statists plan did not work because Andropov died, and the plan alone did not have the strength to be successful.\n\nAndropov thought invading Afghanistan and starting a war was a mistake. He believed it was not in the Soviet Union's best interest, and he gave four main reasons to UN Secretary Javier Pérez de Cuéllar as to why the invasion is not important. Andropov even visited Afghanistan toward the end of 1981 and the beginning of 1982, but he realized that there was no military solution. Andropov's response was putting pressure on Afghanistan's leadership, so the Soviet Union could withdraw without having many problems. Andropov's death meant his vision for Afghanistan would never materialize.\n\nAndropov wanted to fix the Soviet economy because it was struggling toward the end of Brezhnev's leadership. Gosplan Baibakov presented the 1983 annual plan of economic and social development, and V. F. Garbuzov presented the economic performance of 1982 for the 1983 budget. After listening to these two plans, Andropov had several ideas on how to improve the Soviet economy, especially through agriculture and agricultural workers. Andropov also wanted the industrial ministry and other ministries to meet their target plans.\n\nThe Soviet Union had domestic and foreign problems with its economy, which worried Soviet leaders. Andropov did agree with some parts of Brezhnev's foreign policies, but he also wanted to create better ones. The Soviet Union's leaders also struggled to find different ways to solve multiple problems. Andropov's death meant his economic vision was never fully developed.\n\nAfter Yuri Andropov's death, Konstantin Chernenko was elected as the next leader for the Soviet Union. Andropov had not wanted Chernenko to become his successor because Chernenko had emphysema health issues. Andropov wish was to actually have Mikhail Gorbachev succeed him. Chernenko's reign was even shorter than Andropov's, 13 months from February 1984 to March 1985.\n\nLeonid Brezhnev had helped Chernenko move higher in the political ranks. Chernenko followed some of Brezhnev's economic ideals, but he was not open about his economic development plans. Chernenko wanted to improve the Soviet Union's agriculture methods, production and distribution to help jump start the economy.\n\nOne of Chernenko's major achievements was negotiating and signing a new trade pact with China, worth $1.2 billion. This also helped to ease the relationship between the Soviet Union and China. The trade protocol allowed a 50 percent commerce increase between the Soviet Union and China, but it also allowed the Soviet Union to export machinery, cars and timber.\n\nChernenko also did some work to help improve the relationship between the Soviet Union and the United States. After the Soviet Union ended the intermediate-range nuclear force negotiations in Geneva, all strategic arm talks ceased and neither side talked to the other for the next 12 months. Nonetheless, Chernenko, contacted recently re-elected President Ronald Reagan to reopen negotiations and met him in Geneva, on January 7, 1985. After two long days of negotiation, both sides agreed to \"resume formal negotiations on the basis of a new framework.\" This was a new advance in the Soviet Union and the United States' relationship because it addressed questions regarding both nuclear and space weapons. This new agreement was one way Chernenko helped the Soviet Union's relationship with the United States. However, Chernenko did not end the Afghanistan invasion, which could have started the process to end the Cold War.\n\nEven after the agreement between the Soviet Union and the United States, the Soviet Union was still boycotting the 1984 Summer Olympics where the United States was hosting the Olympic Games in Los Angeles. The Soviet Union said the Reagan administration could not ensure the Soviet athletes' security. The Soviet National Olympic Committee also felt its participants would have poor training conditions.\n\nThe Soviet Union's boycott of the 1984 Summer Olympics was also a direct response to the United States' boycott to the 1980 Summer Olympics, which the Soviet Union hosted in Moscow. The United States and other countries were boycotting the Soviet Union because of the Afghanistan invasion. But Chernenko continued Soviet intervention in Afghanistan even after the United States' 1980 Summer Olympics boycott. Chernenko's Soviet Union and Reagan's United States still had disagreements, so the Cold War could not end before Chernenko died.\n\nDozens of the board wargames were published covering both historical and hypothetical conflicts at scales ranging from man-to-man to global thermonuclear war. Historical conflicts include the Falklands War, the Iran–Iraq War, the invasion of Grenada, and the Angolan Civil War. The vast majority of titles concerned contemporary World War III \"what-if\" scenarios wherein the Cold War turns hot and focused on a presumed Warsaw Pact invasion of Western Europe. Notable games include \"Ultimatum\" (1979), \"The China War\" (1979), \"NATO Division Commander\" (1980), \"Fifth Corps\" series (1980), and \"MechWar 2\" (1980), \"Task Force\" (1981), \"Harpoon\" (1983), \"Silo 14\" (1983), \"Assault\" series (1983), \"Gulf Strike\" (1983), \"Firepower\" (1984), \"The Third World War\" series (1984), \"Air Cav\" (1985) and \"Main Battle Area\" (1985).\n\nIn addition, the period witnessed the release of several videogames dealing with the Cold War and Cold War related issues. Examples include Atari's well-known arcade-game \nMissile Command (1980), the somewhat infamous \nRaid over Moscow (1984), which lets you blast through soviet airdefence and finally destroy Moscow (hence the name), as well as \nTheatre Europe (1985), which simulate an all-out conventional, albeit hypothetical, war between the Warsaw Pact forces and NATO troops over control of Central Europe. Some of these games advise strongly against the use of nuclear weapons, reflecting a widespread fear of nuclear holocaust at the time. Additionally, there were several video games released that dealt with Cold War geopolitics, such as Balance of Power (1985) and Crisis in the Kremlin (1991.)\n\nTwo films released in 1983, \"WarGames\" and \"The Day After\", dealt with potential all-out nuclear war between the US and the Soviet Union. President Reagan was given a private screening of \"The Day After\" and was said to be deeply shaken. He revised his posture toward nuclear war in favor of eventual nuclear abolition, at least in part due to his experience watching the film.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32647632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32647632", "title": "Cova d'en Daina", "text": "Cova d'en Daina\n\nCova d'en Daina () is a dolmen located near Romanyà de la Selva, in the municipality of Santa Cristina d'Aro, Catalonia, Spain.\n\nThis megalith monument was built out of granite blocks and is dated around 2700-2200 BC. It was discovered by Pere Cama i Casas and the first mention of its uncovering was by Agustí Casas in 1894. It was later excavated by Lluís Esteva Cruañas, who unearthed human bones and teeth, flint arrowheads, knife and pottery fragments and necklace beads. It was partially reconstructed in the 1950s. It is seven metres long and made up of an entrance passage into the funeral chamber, with a circular tumulus that is 10 metres in diameter. The entrance to the tomb is oriented to the southeast, which allows sunlight to reach the interior on the winter solstice.\n\n"}
{"id": "5504630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5504630", "title": "DNA repair-deficiency disorder", "text": "DNA repair-deficiency disorder\n\nA DNA repair-deficiency disorder is a medical condition due to reduced functionality of DNA repair.\n\nDNA repair defects can cause an accelerated aging disease or an increased risk of cancer, or sometimes both.\n\nDNA repair defects are seen in nearly all of the diseases described as accelerated aging disease, in which various tissues, organs or systems of the human body age prematurely. Because the accelerated aging diseases display different aspects of aging, but never every aspect, they are often called segmental progerias by biogerontologists.\n\n\nSome examples of DNA repair defects causing progeroid syndromes in humans or mice are shown in Table 1.\nMost of the DNA repair deficiency diseases show varying degrees of \"accelerated aging\" or cancer (often some of both). But elimination of any gene essential for base excision repair kills the embryo—it is too lethal to display symptoms (much less symptoms of cancer or \"accelerated aging\"). \nRothmund-Thomson syndrome and xeroderma pigmentosum display symptoms dominated by vulnerability to cancer, whereas progeria and Werner syndrome show the most features of \"accelerated aging\". Hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer (HNPCC) is very often caused by a defective MSH2 gene leading to defective mismatch repair, but displays no symptoms of \"accelerated aging\". On the other hand, Cockayne Syndrome and trichothiodystrophy show mainly features of accelerated aging, but apparently without an increased risk of cancer Some DNA repair defects manifest as neurodegeneration rather than as cancer or \"accelerated aging\". (Also see the \"DNA damage theory of aging\" for a discussion of the evidence that DNA damage is the primary underlying cause of aging.)\n\nSome biogerontologists question that such a thing as \"accelerated aging\" actually exists, at least partly on the grounds that all of the so-called accelerated aging diseases are segmental progerias. Many disease conditions such as diabetes, high blood pressure, etc., are associated with increased mortality. Without reliable biomarkers of aging it is hard to support the claim that a disease condition represents more than accelerated mortality.\n\nAgainst this position other biogerontologists argue that premature aging phenotypes are identifiable symptoms associated with mechanisms of molecular damage. The fact that these phenotypes are widely recognized justifies classification of the relevant diseases as \"accelerated aging\". Such conditions, it is argued, are readily distinguishable from genetic diseases associated with increased mortality, but not associated with an aging phenotype, such as cystic fibrosis and sickle cell anemia. It is further argued that segmental aging phenotype is a natural part of aging insofar as genetic variation leads to some people being more disposed than others to aging-associated diseases such as cancer and Alzheimer's disease.\n\nIndividuals with an inherited impairment in DNA repair capability are often at increased risk of cancer. When a mutation is present in a DNA repair gene, the repair gene will either not be expressed or be expressed in an altered form. Then the repair function will likely be deficient, and, as a consequence, damages will tend to accumulate. Such DNA damages can cause errors during DNA synthesis leading to mutations, some of which may give rise to cancer. Germ-line DNA repair mutations that increase the risk of cancer are listed in the Table. \n\n"}
{"id": "322355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=322355", "title": "Deep time", "text": "Deep time\n\nDeep time is the concept of geologic time. The modern philosophical concept was developed in the 18th century by Scottish geologist James Hutton (1726–1797). The age of the Earth has been determined to be, after a long and complex history of developments, around 4.55 billion years.\n\nHutton based his view of deep time on a form of geochemistry that had developed in Scotland and Scandinavia from the 1750s onward. As mathematician John Playfair, one of Hutton's friends and colleagues in the Scottish Enlightenment, remarked upon seeing the strata of the angular unconformity at Siccar Point with Hutton and James Hall in June 1788, \"the mind seemed to grow giddy by looking so far into the abyss of time\".\n\nEarly geologists such as Nicolas Steno (1638-1686) and Horace-Bénédict de Saussure (1740-1799) had developed ideas of geological strata forming from water through chemical processes, which Abraham Gottlob Werner (1749–1817) developed into a theory known as Neptunism, envisaging the slow crystallisation of minerals in the ancient oceans of the Earth to form rock. Hutton's innovative 1785 theory, based on Plutonism, visualised an endless cyclical process of rocks forming under the sea, being uplifted and tilted, then eroded to form new strata under the sea. In 1788 the sight of Hutton's Unconformity at Siccar Point convinced Playfair and Hall of this extremely slow cycle, and in that same year Hutton memorably wrote \"we find no vestige of a beginning, no prospect of an end\".\n\nOther scientists such as Georges Cuvier (1769-1832) put forward ideas of past ages, and geologists such as Adam Sedgwick (1785-1873) incorporated Werner's ideas into concepts of catastrophism; Sedgwick inspired his university student Charles Darwin to exclaim \"What a capital hand is Sedgewick [sic] for drawing large cheques upon the Bank of Time!\". In a competing theory, Charles Lyell in his \"Principles of Geology\" (1830–1833) developed Hutton's comprehension of endless deep time as a crucial scientific concept into uniformitarianism. As a young naturalist and geological theorist, Darwin studied the successive volumes of Lyell's book exhaustively during the \"Beagle\" survey voyage in the 1830s, before beginning to theorise about evolution.\n\nPhysicist Gregory Benford addresses the concept in \"Deep Time: How Humanity Communicates Across Millennia\" (1999), as does paleontologist and \"Nature\" editor Henry Gee in \"In Search of Deep Time: Beyond the Fossil Record to a New History of Life\" (2001) Stephen Jay Gould's \"Time's Arrow, Time's Cycle\" (1987) also deals in large part with the evolution of the concept.\n\nJohn McPhee discussed \"deep time\" at length with the layperson in mind in \"Basin and Range\" (1981), parts of which originally appeared in the \"New Yorker\" magazine. In \"Time's Arrow, Time's Cycle\", Gould cited one of the metaphors McPhee used in explaining the concept of deep time:\nConsider the Earth's history as the old measure of the English yard, the distance from the King's nose to the tip of his outstretched hand. One stroke of a nail file on his middle finger erases human history.\nConcepts similar to geologic time were recognized in the 11th century by the Persian geologist and polymath Avicenna (Ibn Sina, 973–1037), and by the Chinese naturalist and polymath Shen Kuo (1031–1095).\n\nThe Roman Catholic theologian Thomas Berry (1914–2009) explored spiritual implications of the concept of deep time. Berry proposes that a deep understanding of the history and functioning of the evolving universe is a necessary inspiration and guide for our own effective functioning as individuals and as a species. This view has greatly influenced the development of deep ecology and ecophilosophy. The experiential nature of the experience of deep time has also greatly influenced the work of Joanna Macy and John Seed.\n\nH.G. Wells and Julian Huxley regarded the difficulties of coping with the concept of deep time as exaggerated:\n\"The use of different scales is simply a matter of practice\", they said in \"The Science of Life\" (1929). \"We very soon get used to maps, though they are constructed on scales down to a hundred-millionth of natural size. . .  to grasp geological time all that is needed is to stick tight to some magnitude which shall be the unit on the new and magnified scale—a million years is probably the most convenient—to grasp its meaning once and for all by an effort of imagination, and then to think of all passage of geological time in terms of this unit.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25945743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25945743", "title": "Dino Cinel", "text": "Dino Cinel\n\nDino Cinel was an Italian-American historian, and a Distinguished Professor of Italian-American Studies at City University of New York.\n\nIn 1988, he was a Roman Catholic priest at St. Rita's Church, New Orleans. \nHe was investigated over his possession of homosexual child pornography.\nHe sued over the public release of the information.\n\nHe taught at Tulane University.\nThe scholarship of his book, \"From Italy to San Francisco\", has been questioned.\n\nCinel was stabbed to death in Medellin, Colombia in February 2018 by an 18-year-old man with whom he had been in a relationship.\n\n\n\n6. Asesinan en Medellín a exsacerdote italiano envuelto en pornografía. El Tiempo; Medellin, Colombia, Feb. 3, 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "49102699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49102699", "title": "End of Basque home rule in France", "text": "End of Basque home rule in France\n\nThe end of Basque home rule or \"foruak/fors\" in France was an event putting an end to the secular Basque native institutional and legal system during the French revolutionary period (1790-1795). The final violent dissolution of the semi-autonomous Basque institutional and legal system was coupled with the arrival of French troops to the Basque Country within the War of the Pyrenees and a deliberate terror on the Basque population centred in Labourd.\n\nIt resulted in the abrupt suppression of all native governmental and jurisdictional organs and the establishment of the departement of the Lower Pyrenees (\"Basses-Pyrénées\"), as well as the \"departement\" administrative system, as everywhere in France.\n\nAlthough gradually curtailed starting 1620, the Basques in the Kingdom of France maintained a semi-autonomous status favoured by their peripheral location and common bonds with their peer Basque districts in Spain, ruled by a similar self-empowerment system. However, each district held a different governmental and legal jurisdiction, whose representatives attended the parliament of Gascony in Bordeaux (Labourd), and Navarre in Pau (Lower Navarre, Soule).\n\nLabourd was the most dynamic French Basque district, showing total autonomy in its fiscal system during the mid-18th century, but also a declining fishing industry, half-hearted trade routes with the Americas, and lack of products with added value capable of enticing trade. Its decision making body was the \"Biltzar\", or Assembly of Labourd, a highly participatory, democratic body. The weight of the nobility was remarkably low. \n\nLower Navarre nominally remained a kingdom apart from France located at the feet of the Pyrenean passes and benefiting from the cross-border trade routes, e.g. Pamplona-Bayonne. Soule's basic legal document was the Custom, or \"Kostüma\", but all relevant powers of its decision making body, the Estates-General, were suppressed by 1733. The Estates of Lower Navarre went through a similar fate when litigation with officials in Pau led to their legislating powers being severely curtailed by royal decree in 1748. Relations between the crown and the Basques were increasingly uneasy, due to the crown's demanding nature in terms of fiscal contribution and decision-making attributions.\n\nIn 1789, estates representatives were called to the Jeu de Paume in Paris by King Louis XVI. It was attended by the Basque deputies, six per district. In January 1790, a clean-sweep administrative design was put forward in the National Assembly that superseded Basque home rule. The new ideological design abolished all ethnic or traditional bonds, with the new Lower Pyrenees department Basques merging Bearn and the Basque districts into one single administrative unit, where Basques remained a minority.\n\nThe Basques, spearheaded by the enlightened Garat brothers, Dominique Joseph and , regarded with disbelief the proposal and opposed it in vehement addresses to the assembly, Uhart and Escuret-Laborde, representatives of Soule, equally spoke out against it and stood up for their \"foruak\", for which they were jeered, and abandoned the chamber. The Navarrese representatives (Franchisteguy, Polverel) decided not to vote after Louis XVI entitled himself \"King of the French\", instead of the customary \"King of France and Navarre\", arguing that they were not part of France and suggesting the possibility of creating a separate entity.\n\nThe Basque representatives, citing their linguistic and cultural difference to Bearn, went on to come up with an alternative design that would merge all three Basque districts into one department. During this period, Basque was the common everyday language in all three provinces, with a majority of Basque monolingual population and a number of asymmetric Basque-Gascon (Bearnese) bilinguals; at this point, Biarritz, Bayonne, and Bidache were for the most part Gascon speaking.\n\nThe decree establishing the \"départément\" system, was followed by the creation of the \"Basses-Pyrenees\" department in February 1790. The bill for a Basque department was also rejected. On hearing the news of the French decision, an astonished \"Biltzar\" of Labourd stripped the Garat brothers of their office for eventually voting in favour of the French departmental design. Likewise minor territorial entities were redesigned, most notably, merging Ustaritz and Bayonne to dysfunctional effects, right after the 1780s separation of Labourd from the latter as demanded by its assembly of representatives (\"Biltzar\").\n\nIn 1791, the new Constitution was passed, confirming the administrative arrangement voted in 1790. Dominique Garat \"the Old\" refused to distribute copies of the new constitution on the grounds that there was no Basque-language version. France was still a kingdom, so the \"status quo\" remained in place, but political developments started to shift from evolutionary to revolutionary. The kingdom turned into a Republic in September 1792, the Jacobins and the National Convention rose to prominence, followed by the arrest, trial and eventual execution of King Louis XVI (January 1793). An international alliance was formed to counter revolutionary France.\n\nThe new order was not implemented until the War of the Pyrenees, with the arrival of the Army of the Pyrenees. The area came under direct military control. In the run-up to the execution of the King Louis XVI in January 1793, tension mounted when the clergy was required to vow loyalty to the French Constitution and the replacement of local priests by \"constitutional\" clergymen coming from elsewhere in France.\n\nOn the outbreak of the War of the Pyrenees, Basque population was required to join the army. Very few attended the call, and the Basques were considered hostile to the French republic. Terror was considered to abash the Basques, and the moment seemed to arrive when scores of youths defected their positions in the French army and fled to the Spanish Basque region across the border.\n\nThe regional republican authorities decided the implementation of mass repression in southern Labourd. Basque was prohibited in most public contexts, claiming that \"fanaticism speaks Basque.\" In the spring 1794, thousands were forced out of their homes, regrouped, and segregated by age and sex, then conducted in a long column to at least 40 km away of their houses, to the vicinity of Capbreton. Several hundreds died, and their possessions were burnt or confiscated.\n\nWithin months, many deportees managed to come back home when the Jacobin National Convention collapsed, only to find their properties in the hands of French \"patriots\". A trial took place to clarify responsibilities during the Thermidorian Reaction, but no high- or mid-ranking officials were found accountable. Turmoil and unrest ensued in southern Labourd triggered by a desire for restoration and revenge, leading for example to the assassination in Ustaritz of Monsieur Mundutegi, a local proponent of the mass deportation. Many victims and dissidents of the new regime took to exile.\n\nWhile the harshest period of the First French Republic was gone, the repressive events were to leave an indelible, damaging effect in the Basque collective psyche. It became the earliest chapter aimed at diluting the Basques in the new French national arrangement. The foundation of the idea of modernity associated to the French nation-state deprived the Basques from a specific cultural and political identity.\n\nDuring the next decades, the Basques defected from the French army in alarming numbers amidst accusations of discrimination and mistreatment. Still Dominique Joseph Garat, a high-ranking official close to Bonaparte at the turn of the 19th century, put forward the possibility of establishing a buffer Basque principality loyal to France. However, while aspects of that idea started to be implemented in the Spanish Basque districts as of 1810, no such idea came to be considered by Bonaparte for the French Basque Country.\n\nIn 1804, the Napoleonic \"Civil Code\" was decreed, breaking up the native legal approach to inheritance and property, bringing about the fragmentation of the family's farmstead and restriction to communal lands (duties required by the state), prompting yet further emigration waves. These institutional and legal events were coupled with exactions, recruitment and requisitioning implemented by the different military expeditions during the successive wars, e.g. Peninsular War. Half a century later, the prefect of the Basses-Pyrénées lamented the decrease of 80.000 inhabitants in the population across the region due to taxation and regular military draft, a remark conveniently highlighted by Fermin Lasala to make a case for the continuation of the Basque institutional specificity on the eve of its permanent suppression in the Basque Provinces (1876). The bulk of the French Basques continued to oppose the idea of a French republic still for over a century, yearning for the restitution of the former regime and their native institutions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25897394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25897394", "title": "Erkki Nordberg", "text": "Erkki Nordberg\n\nM.A. Erkki Juhani Nordberg (17 August 1946, Helsinki – 28 March 2012, Helsinki) was a Finnish colonel who served as the Chief of the Educational Department of the Main Headquarters of the Finnish Defense Forces.\n\nBefore that, Nordberg served in the Finnish Defense Forces as the commander of the Brigade of Karelia from 1999 to 2002.\n\nIn his educational work, Nordberg focused foremost in the history of the Finnish wars during World War II and he has researched extensively the war plans of the Soviet Union, related to World War II. He authored and co-authored several books and he wrote numerous columns for various newspapers – nearly all on military- and war-related issues.\n\nIn additions to his publishing and educational work, the general public got to know Nordberg as a regular war correspondent on the Finnish television and radio channels, e.g. during the Persian Gulf War and the Yugoslav Wars. \nIn his book, \"Arvio ja ennuste Venäjän sotilaspolitiikasta Suomen suunnalla\" of 2003 (\"The Analysis and Prognosis of the Russian Military Politics on the Finnish Front\"), Colonel Nordberg explains in detail why and how the Soviet Union planned and intended to invade Finland, following the Winter War (1939–1940).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "893815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=893815", "title": "Felix Dahn", "text": "Felix Dahn\n\nFelix Dahn (9 February 1834 – 3 January 1912) was a German law professor, German nationalist author, poet and historian.\n\nLudwig Julius Sophus Felix Dahn was born in Hamburg as the oldest son of Friedrich (1811–1889) and Constanze Dahn who were notable actors at the city's theatre. The family had both German and French roots. Dahn began his studies in law and philosophy in Munich (he had moved there with his parents in 1834), and graduated as Doctor of Laws in Berlin. After his habilitation treatise, Dahn became a lecturer of German Law in Munich in 1857. \nIn 1863 he became senior lecturer/associate professor in Würzburg, received a professorship in Königsberg (in 1872).\n\nDahn was married to the artist Sophie Fries (1835–1898), with whom he had a son. He tutored baroness Therese von Droste-Hülshoff, a relative of the poet Annette von Droste-Hülshoff, in poetry from 1867 and entered an illicit love affair with her, which he gave a literary treatment in his \"Sind Götter?\" (1874).\nHe divorced his wife and married Therese, against opposition from both families, in 1873.\n\nDahn relocated to University of Breslau in 1888, again as a full professor, and was elected rector of the university in 1895. As rector, he enforced a ban on Polish student associations. \nHe was an honorary member of German Student Corps and an active member of the nationalist \"Alldeutscher Verband\".\n\nDahn received honorary doctorates in Medicine and in Philosophy. \nDahn died in Breslau, a month before his 78th birthday.\n\nDahn's writings were influential in the conception of the European Migration Period (\"Völkerwanderung\" ) in German historiography of the late 19th and early 20th centuries. His multi-volume \"Prehistory of the Germanic and Roman Peoples\", a chronology of the Migration Period that first appeared in print in 1883, was so definitive that abbreviated versions were reprinted until the late 1970s.\n\nFrom the 1860s, Dahn regularly wrote for \"Die Gartenlaube\".\nHis nationalist historical novels were widely received, and according to Houdsen (1997) were influential in the formation of the \"völkisch\" ideology that formed the \"Germany's pre-Hitlerian intellectual background for National Socialism\". \nHis 1876 \"Ein Kampf um Rom\" according to Kipper (2002) contributed to the ethnic essentialism and opposition to ethnic miscegenation of the \"völkisch avant-garde\".\n\nDahn published numerous poems, many with a nationalist bent. His \"Mette von Marienburg\" portrays bands of \"Masures and Poles\" hiding in the \"Podolian forest\".\n\nBesides his historical and literary production, Dahn also published a large amount of specialist legal literature, on topics such as trade law and international law.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34884948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34884948", "title": "G. J. Renier", "text": "G. J. Renier\n\nGustaaf Johannes Petrus Renier (25 September 1892, Flushing – 1 September 1962, Twickenham) was professor of Dutch History at University College London.\n\nRenier was the child of Johanna Maria Elisabeth Renier and the maritime pilot Peter Paul Renier, both natives of Flushing. He was sent to school in Antwerp and Leuven, and studied History at the University of Ghent, beginning a doctorate under Henri Pirenne. At the outbreak of the First World War he fled to England, and remained there working as a journalist, biographer and translator, before completing a doctorate under Pieter Geyl. In 1936 he succeeded Geyl as Reader in Dutch History at University College London, retiring in 1957.\n\nIn contrast to his former advisor, Geyl, he took the view that Dutch and Belgian nationhood were highly distinct.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11162096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11162096", "title": "George D. Watt", "text": "George D. Watt\n\nGeorge Darling Watt (12 May 1812 – 24 October 1881) was the first convert to Mormonism baptized in the British Isles. As a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church), Watt was a secretary to Brigham Young, the primary editor of the \"Journal of Discourses\" and the primary inventor of the Deseret Alphabet.\n\nWatt was born in Manchester, England. While living in Preston as a young man, Watt was a member of the Reverend James Fielding's congregation. Fielding's brother Joseph had joined the Latter-day Saint church in Upper Canada and had written to James about the new church. In 1837, Latter-day Saint missionaries Heber C. Kimball, Orson Hyde, Willard Richards, and Joseph Fielding traveled to Preston and were given permission by James Fielding to preach in his chapel.\n\nWatt was baptized a Latter-day Saint on July 30, 1837 by Heber C. Kimball in the River Ribble. Watt won the right to be the first official British Latter-day Saint convert by winning a footrace against eight others from Fielding's congregation that desired to join the Mormons. In 1840 and 1841 Watt served as a Mormon missionary in Scotland. In 1842, Watt left England to join the gathering of the Latter-day Saints in Nauvoo, Illinois.\n\nIn 1846, Brigham Young sent Watt and his wife back to England as church missionaries. Watt used his skill at Pitman shorthand in serving as a clerk to mission president George Q. Cannon. In late 1850, the Watts returned to America and joined the new gathering of Latter-day Saints in the Salt Lake Valley in Utah Territory.\n\nIn Utah, Watt worked as a reporter for the \"Deseret News\" and as a private clerk for Brigham Young. Using his skill as a stenographer, Watt began recording the sermons given by Young and other LDS Church leaders. Beginning in 1853, Watt published these sermons in a periodical known as the \"Journal of Discourses\". Watt remained the primary editor of the \"Journal\" until 1868.\n\nIn 1852, Watt was appointed by Young to a committee that was charged with creating a new phonetic alphabet that would assist non-English speaking Latter-day Saint immigrants learn English. The result was the Deseret Alphabet. Although the alphabet was largely a failure, Watt remained a strong promoter of the language system.\n\nIn 1869, Watt was disfellowshipped from the LDS Church for following the teachings of dissident William S. Godbe. Watt was identified as one of the leaders of the \"Godbeites\" and was disciplined by the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles. Although Watt was initially repentant and desired to return to full fellowship in the LDS Church, by 1874 he was a devoted Godbeite and was excommunicated from the LDS Church on May 3, 1874.\n\nLater, Watt tried to return to the LDS Church. Four times he attempted to rejoin the church but was denied because his beliefs differed from those of the LDS Church. Upon his last visit to church president John Taylor, Watt said, \"President Taylor, I want you to know that if anything happens to me before I am reinstated in the Church, it is your responsibility.\"\n\nWatt died in Kaysville, Utah Territory, at the age of 65, estranged from the LDS Church and its leaders. Watt's obituary describes him as \"honest truthful and sincere although perhaps misguided being a self made man of strong character and exercising vast influence there is not a little in his career which is remarkable.\" Following his death, Taylor made a special trip to the home to say that he should be buried in his temple robes.\n\nLike many early Latter-day Saints, Watt practiced plural marriage; he had six wives. One of his wives, Jane Brown, was his half sister—they shared a mother, Mary Ann Wood.\n\n"}
{"id": "2604506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2604506", "title": "George Kodinos", "text": "George Kodinos\n\nGeorge Kodinos or Codinus (), also Pseudo-Kodinos, \"kouropalates\" in the Byzantine court, is the reputed 14th-century author of three extant works in late Byzantine literature.\n\nTheir attribution to him is merely a matter of convenience, two of them being anonymous in the manuscripts. Οf Kodinos himself nothing is known; it is supposed that he lived towards the end of the 14th century. The works referred to are the following:\n\nComplete editions are (by Immanuel Bekker) in the \"Bonn Corpus scriptorum Hist. Byz.\" (1839–1843, where, however, some sections of the \"Patria\" are omitted), and in JP Migne, \"Patrologia graeca civil.\"; see also Karl Krumbacher, \"Geschichte der byzantinischen Litteratur\" (1897).\n\n"}
{"id": "46813872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46813872", "title": "H. P. R. Finberg", "text": "H. P. R. Finberg\n\nHerbert Patrick Reginald Finberg (1900–74)) was the first Professor of English Local History, appointed by Leicester University in 1964, and his department became recognised as the only centre for postgraduate studies in the subject. He edited three volumes of early Anglo-Saxon charters, \"Early Charters of Devon and Cornwall\" (1953), \"Early Charters of the West Midlands\" (1961) and \"Early Charters of Wessex\" (1964). He also edited \"Scandinavian England. Collected Papers by F. T. Wainwright\". Other works included \"Tavistock Abbey\" (1949) and \"Manual of Catholic Prayer\" (1962).\n"}
{"id": "5535969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5535969", "title": "Hawulti-Melazo", "text": "Hawulti-Melazo\n\nHawulti-Melazo (\"Hawelti-Melazo\") is a pre-Aksumite and Aksumite archaeological site located in the northern Tigray Region in Ethiopia. It contains various old funerary monuments, as well as ancient inscriptions.\n\n"}
{"id": "4636964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4636964", "title": "Helen King (classicist)", "text": "Helen King (classicist)\n\nHelen King (born 1957) is a British classical scholar. She is Professor Emerita of Classical Studies at the Open University. She was previously Professor of the History of Classical Medicine and Head of the Department of Classics at the University of Reading.\n\nKing was born in 1957. For King going to university or doing a PhD wasn't inevitable, and she had little notion of what doctoral research involved. Nevertheless, she completed her first degree in Ancient History and Social Anthropology at University College London. She was awarded her doctorate in 1985 for a PhD on menstruation in ancient Greece supervised by Sally Humphreys. Her thesis was entitled \"From 'parthenos' to 'gyne': the Dynamics of Category.\" \n\nHaving completed her doctorate, King held research fellowships at the universities of Cambridge and Newcastle, taught at the Liverpool Institute of Higher Education for eight years, and moved to Reading on a Wellcome Trust University Award in 1996. From 2008 she was also Visiting Professor at the Peninsula Medical School in Truro. She moved to the Open University to assume the role of Professor of Classical Studies in 2011. She retired in January 2017 and took up the position of Robert E. and Susan T. Rydell Visiting Professor 2017–2018 at Gustavus Adolphus College, St Peter, MN.\n\nKing was a Women's Studies Area Advisor to the Oxford Classical Dictionary (1996). She has been a Fellow at the Netherlands Institute for Advanced Studies (2001), a Landsdowne Visiting Lecturer at the University of Victoria, British Columbia (2002), a Visiting Professor at the University of Texas at Austin (2005), a Käthe Leichter Visiting Professor in Women's Studies and Gender Studies at the University of Vienna (2014) and Provost's Distinguished Women Lecturer, Notre Dame, IN (2016). King has appeared on \"History Cold Case\", \"Tony Robinson's Gods & Monsters\", and \"Harlots, Housewives & Heroines: A 17th Century History for Girls\". She has contributed to two episodes of In Our Time (radio series) on BBC Radio 4, speaking on Galen and The Hippocratic Oath.\n\nWith the publication of her book \"Hippocrates' Woman: Reading the Female Body in Ancient Greece\" (1998), King established herself as the leading authority on the practice and theory of ancient medicine as relating to women and how it continues to influence thought to the present day.\n\nShe has published on the myths of Tithonos, on mermaids, and on the myth/fable of Agnodice, \"the first midwife\". She has investigated how this story was used to give authority to women in medical roles in various historical periods.\n\nKing was a member of the General Synod of the Church of England from 1985 to 1993 and, as part of the 'Historical' thematic working group, is contributing to the Church's proposed teaching document on human sexuality.\n\n"}
{"id": "1554522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1554522", "title": "Hernando del Pulgar", "text": "Hernando del Pulgar\n\nHernando del Pulgar (1436 – c. 1492) was a converso Spanish writer.\n\nHe was born at Pulgar (near Toledo) and was educated at the court of John II. Henry IV made him one of his secretaries, and under Isabella he became councillor of state, was charged with a mission to France, and in 1482 was appointed historiographer-royal. He is said to have died in 1492.\n\nHis \"Crónica de los Reyes Católicos\", wrongly ascribed in the first edition (1545) to Antonio de Nebrija, who had composed a Latin history based upon Pulgar's manuscript, is commonly supposed to be propaganda for his patrons, Queen Isabella and King Ferdinand; nevertheless, it is often critical of their policies and admonitory in its insistence that monarchs need to respect moral and spiritual ideals. Pulgar's \"Claros varones de Castilla\" (1486), a series of portraits of eminent nobles, ecclesiastics, and men of learning, provides interesting insights into the court of Henry IV. These portraits were published together with Pulgar's \"Letras\" (1486), which were directed to both well-known and anonymous correspondents. Pulgar also composed a gloss (ca. 1485) on the \"Coplas de Mingo Revulgo\".\n\n"}
{"id": "4462091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4462091", "title": "History of the Arab–Israeli conflict", "text": "History of the Arab–Israeli conflict\n\nThe Arab–Israeli conflict is a modern phenomenon, which has its roots in the end of the 19th century. The conflict became a major international issue with the birth of Israel in 1948. The Arab–Israeli conflict has resulted in at least five major wars and a number of minor conflicts. It has also been the source of two major Palestinian uprisings (intifadas).\n\nTensions between the Zionist movements and the Arab residents of Palestine started to emerge after the 1880s, when immigration of European Jews to Palestine increased. This immigration increased the Jewish communities in Palestine, then part of the Ottoman Empire by the acquisition of land from Ottoman and individual Arab landholders, known as effendis, and establishment of Jewish agricultural settlements. At the time, Arabs lived in an almost feudal existence on the effendis' land. Demographer Justin McCarthy estimated from Ottoman census data that the population of Palestine in 1882–3 was about 468,000, consisting of 408,000 Muslims, 44,000 Christians and 15,000 Jews. By the eve of World War I, these numbers had increased to 602,000 Muslims, 81,000 Christians and 39,000 Jews, plus a similar but uncertain number of Jews who were not Ottoman citizens. The first Statistician General of Israel, Roberto Bachi, give similar numbers except for a lower count (525,000) of Muslims in 1914.\n\nDuring the time of the Mandatory Palestine, the Balfour Declaration signed in 1917, stated that the government of Great Britain supported the establishment of a \"Jewish national home\" in Palestine. This exacerbated tensions between the Arabs living in Mandate Palestine and the Jews who emigrated there during the Ottoman period. Signed in January 1919, the Faisal–Weizmann Agreement promoted Arab-Jewish cooperation on the development of a Jewish national homeland in Palestine and an Arab nation in a large part of the Middle East, though this event had little to no effect on the conflict.\n\nIn 1920, the San Remo conference largely endorsed the 1916 Anglo-French Sykes–Picot Agreement, allocating to Britain the area of present-day Jordan, the area between the Jordan River and the Mediterranean Sea, and Iraq, while France received Syria and Lebanon. In 1922, the League of Nations formally established the British Mandate for Palestine and Transjordan, at least partially fulfilling Britain's commitments from the 1915–16 McMahon–Hussein Correspondence by assigning all of the land east of the Jordan River to the Emirate of Jordan, ruled by Hashemite king Abdullah but closely dependent on Britain, leaving the remainder west of the Jordan as the League of Nations Mandatory Palestine. While the British had made promises to give both Arabs and Jews land, the British claimed they had never promised to give either side all of the land. Rising tensions had given way to violence, such as the 1920 Nebi Musa riots, and Jaffa riots of 1921. To assuage the Arabs, and due to British inability to control Arab violence in the Mandatory Palestine any other way, the semi-autonomous Arab Emirate of Transjordan was created in all Palestinian territory east of the Jordan river (roughly 77% of the mandate).\n\nThe conflicting forces of Arab nationalism and the Zionist movement created a situation which the British could neither resolve nor extricate themselves from. Pogroms in Russia and the Ukraine as well as Adolf Hitler's rise to power in Germany created a new urgency in the Zionist movement to create a Jewish state, and the evident intentions of the Zionists provoked increasingly fierce Arab attacks against the Jewish population (most notably in the preceding 1929 Hebron massacre, the activities of the Black Hand, and during the 1936–39 Arab revolt in Palestine). The British-appointed Grand Mufti of Jerusalem, Haj Amin al-Husseini, led opposition to the idea of turning part of Palestine into a Jewish state.\n\nIn search for help in expelling British forces from Palestine, thus removing the enforcer of the Zionist enterprise, the Grand Mufti sought alliance with the Axis Powers. The response of the British government was to banish the Mufti (where he spent much of World War II in Germany and helped form a Muslim SS division in the Balkans), curb Jewish immigration, and reinforce its police force. The Jewish leadership (\"Yishuv\") \"adopted a policy of restraint (\"havlaga\") and static defense in response to Arab attacks\" and criticized the British for \"what they regarded as Britain's retreat from the Balfour Declaration and its conciliation of Arab violence.\" It was at this time that critics of this policy broke away from the \"Hagana\" (the self-defense organization of the \"Yishuv\") and created the more right-wing militant \"Irgun\", which would later be led by Menachem Begin in 1943. For a list of Irgun attacks on Palestinian civilians and policemen during this period, see List of Irgun attacks during the 1930s.\n\nA British Royal Commission of Inquiry that came to be known as the Peel Commission was established in 1936. In its 1937 report, it proposed a two-state solution that gave the Arabs control over all of the Negev, much of the present-day West Bank, and Gaza and gave the Jews control over Tel Aviv, Haifa, present-day northern Israel, and surrounding areas. The British were to maintain control over Jaffa, Jerusalem, Bethlehem, and surrounding areas. The two main Jewish leaders, Chaim Weizmann and David Ben-Gurion had convinced the Zionist Congress to approve equivocally the Peel recommendations as a basis for more negotiation. The Arabs, however, rejected it while demanding cessation of immigration and land sales to Jewish people. The Arabs' demands prompted the British to stop Jewish immigration, thus preventing refugees from escaping the Holocaust.\n\nJewish violence against the Mandatory Palestine continued to mount throughout the later half of the 1940s, with attacks by the Irgun, assassination of British authorities officials by the Lehi, and the 1946 King David Hotel bombing.\n\nIn 1947, the population was reported as 1,845,000, consisting of 608,000 Jews and 1,237,000 Arabs and others.\n\nThe 1948 Arab–Israeli War (1948–49), known as the \"War of Independence\" by Israelis and al-Nakba (\"the Catastrophe\") by Palestinians, began after the UN Partition Plan and the subsequent 1947–48 Civil War in Mandatory Palestine in November 1947. The plan proposed the establishment of Arab and Jewish states in Palestine. The Arabs had rejected the plan while the Jews had accepted it. For four months, under continuous Arab provocation and attack, the Yishuv was usually on the defensive while occasionally retaliating. By March 1948 however, the United States was actively seeking a temporary UN approved trusteeship rather than immediate partition, known as the Truman trusteeship proposal. The Jewish leadership rejected this. By now, both Jewish and Arab militias had begun campaigns to control territory inside and outside the designated borders, and an open war between the two populations emerged.\n\nJordanian, Egyptian, Syrian, Lebanese, Iraqi and Saudi troops invaded Palestine subsequent to the British withdrawal and the declaration of the State of Israel on May 14, 1948. The Arab invasion was denounced by the United States, the Soviet Union, and UN secretary-general Trygve Lie, although it found support from Taiwan and other UN member states. The Arab states proclaimed their aim of a \"United State of Palestine\" in place of Israel and an Arab state. The Arab Higher Committee said, that in the future Palestine, the Jews will be no more than 1/7 of the population. i.e. only Jews that lived in Palestine before the British mandate. They did not specify what will happen to the other Jews. They considered the UN Plan to be invalid because it was opposed by Palestine's Arab majority, and claimed that the British withdrawal led to an absence of legal authority, making it necessary for them to protect Arab lives and property. About two thirds of Palestinian Arabs fled or were expelled from the territories which came under Jewish control; the rest became Arab citizens of Israel. All of the much smaller number of Jews in the territories captured by the Arabs, for example the Old City of Jerusalem, also fled or were expelled. The official United Nations estimate was that 711,000 Arabs became refugees during the fighting.\n\nThe fighting ended with signing of the several Armistice Agreements in 1949 between Israel and its warring neighbors (Egypt, Lebanon, Jordan, and Syria), which formalized Israeli control of the area allotted to the Jewish state plus just over half of the area allotted to the Arab state. The Gaza Strip was occupied by Egypt and the West Bank by Jordan until June 1967 when they were occupied by Israel during the Six-Day War.\n\nThe about 711,000 Palestinians who fled or were expelled from the areas that became Israel were not allowed to return to their homes, and took up residence in refugee camps in surrounding countries, including Lebanon, Jordan, Syria, and the area that was later to be known as the Gaza Strip; they were usually not allowed to leave refugee camps and mix with the local Arab society either, leaving the Palestinian refugee problem unsolved even today. Around 400 Arab towns and villages were depopulated during the 1948 Palestinian exodus. The United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East was established to alleviate their condition.\n\nAfter the war, \"[t]he Arab states insisted on two main demands\", neither of which were accepted by Israel:\n1. Israel should withdraw to the borders of the UN Partition Plan — Israel argued \"that the new borders—which could be changed, under consent only—had been established as a result of war, and because the UN blueprint took no account of defense needs and was militarily untenable, there was no going back to that blueprint.\"\n2. The Palestinian refugees deserved a full right of return back into Israel — Israel argued that this was \"out of the question, not only because they were hostile to the Jewish state, but they would also fundamentally alter the Jewish character of the state.\"\n\nOver the next two decades after the 1948 war ended, between 700,000 and 900,000 Jews fled or were expelled from the Arab countries they were living in, in many cases owing to anti-Jewish sentiment, expulsion (in the case of Egypt), or, in the case of Iraq, legal oppression but also quite often to promises of a better life from Israel; of this number, two-thirds ended up in refugee camps in Israel, while the remainder migrated to France, the United States and other Western or Latin American countries. The Jewish refugee camps in Israel were evacuated with time and the refugees were eventually integrated in the Jewish Israeli society (which in fact consisted almost entirely of refugees from Arab and European states). Israel argued that this and the Palestinian exodus represented a population exchange between Arab nations and the Jewish nation.\n\nFor the 19 years from the end of the Mandate until the Six-Day War, Jordan controlled the West Bank and Egypt controlled the Gaza Strip. In 1950, Jordan annexed the West Bank, but this annexation was recognized only by the United Kingdom. Both territories were conquered (but not annexed) from Jordan and Egypt by Israel in the Six-Day War. Neither Jordan nor Egypt allowed the creation of a Palestinian state in these territories. The effect this had on Israel during this period \"were frequent border clashes ... terror and sabotage acts by individuals and small groups of Palestinian Arabs.\"\n\nThe 1956 Suez War was a joint Israeli-British-French operation, in which Israel invaded the Sinai Peninsula and British and French forces landed at the port of Suez, ostensibly to separate the warring parties, though the real motivation of Great Britain and France was to protect the interests of investors in those countries who were affected by Egyptian President Nasser's decision to nationalize the Suez Canal. Israel justified its invasion of Egypt as an attempt to stop attacks (see the Fedayeen) upon Israeli civilians, and to restore Israeli shipping rights through the Straits of Tiran, which Egypt claimed was within its territorial waters. The invading forces agreed to withdraw under U.S. and international pressure, and Israel withdrew from the Sinai as well, in return for the installation of United Nations Emergency Forces and guarantees of Israeli freedom of shipment. The canal was left in Egyptian (rather than British and French) hands.\n\nThis period saw the rise of Nasserism; the founding of the United Arab Republic in 1958 and its collapse in 1961; Syrian plans for the diversion of water from the Jordan River; continued fedayeen raids, mostly from Syria and Jordan, and Israeli reprisals; and the increasing alignment of the Arab states with the Soviet Union, who became their largest arms supplier.\n\nIn 1964, the PLO was established by mostly Palestinian refugees mostly from Jordan. The Article 24 of the Palestinian National Charter of 1964 stated: \"This Organization does not exercise any territorial sovereignty over the West Bank in the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, on the Gaza Strip or in the Himmah Area.\"\n\nThe background from which erupted the Six-Day War was caused by an erroneous information given to Nasser from the Soviet intelligence services that Israel was amassing troops near the Israeli-Syrian border. The state of conflict was also very tense after increased conflicts between Israel and Syria and Israel and Jordan - i.e. the Samu incident. On 14 May 1967 Mohamed Fawzi (general) left for Syria for one day tour, verified that the Soviet report was false and reported that there were no Israeli armed forces near the Syrian border. Still, Nasser declared full mobilisation in Egypt as of 14 May 1967, citing the joint defence agreement with Syria. The Egyptian further steps were stationing of 100,000 Egyptian troops at the Sinai Peninsula, expulsion of UNEF peacekeeping forces (UNEF II) from the Sinai Peninsula along the border with Israel, and closure of the Straits of Tiran on May 21–22, 1967 (thus \"blocking all shipping to and from Eilat ... a \"casus belli\"\" according to a possible interpretation of international law). The Israeli army had a potential strength, including the not fully mobilized reserves, of 264,000 troops.\n\nFollowing the breakdown of international diplomatic efforts to solve the crisis, the fighting in the Six-Day War of 1967 began on 6 June 1967 with surprise Israeli air strikes that destroyed the entire Egyptian air force while it was still on the ground. In spite of Israel's request to Jordan to desist from attacking it, Jordan along with Syria began to shell Israeli targets. In addition, Hussein, reluctant at first, sent ineffective bomber strikes because of Nasser's requests and affirmation of a sound Egyptian victory. Attacks on other Arab air forces took place later in the day as hostilities broke out on other fronts. A subsequent ground invasion into Egyptian territory led to Israel's conquest of the Gaza Strip and the Sinai Peninsula. With the rapid and rather unexpected success on the Egyptian front, Israel decided to attack and successfully captured the West Bank from Jordan on June 7, and the Golan Heights from Syria on June 9.\n\nThe Khartoum Resolution of September 1, 1967, was issued at the conclusion of 1967 Arab League summit convened in the wake of the Six-Day War, in Khartoum, the capital of Sudan. The summit lasted from August 29 to September 1 and was attended by eight Arab heads of state. The resolution called for: a continued state of belligerency with Israel, ending the Arab oil boycott declared during the Six-Day War, an end to the North Yemen Civil War, and economic assistance for Egypt and Jordan. It is famous for containing (in the third paragraph) what became known as the \"Three No's\": \"no peace with Israel, no recognition of Israel, no negotiations with it...\"\n\nFollowing the Six-Day War, the United Nations Security Council adopted Resolution 242 which proposed a peaceful solution to the Arab-Israeli conflict. The resolution was accepted by Israel, Jordan, and Egypt, but rejected by Syria until 1972–73 and the Yom Kippur War. To this day, Resolution 242 remains controversial due to conflicting interpretations over how much territory Israel would be required to withdraw from in order to conform with the resolution. Also, after the Israeli occupation of the West Bank following the war, Palestinian nationalism substantially increased. Armed resistance was encouraged from within the newly occupied territories and from the Arab nations that lost in the war.\n\nU.S. Secretary of State William P. Rogers proposed the Rogers Plan, which called for a 90-day ceasefire, a military standstill zone on each side of the Suez Canal, and an effort to reach agreement in the framework of UN Resolution 242. The Egyptian government accepted the Rogers Plan even before Anwar Sadat became president. Israel refused to enter negotiations with Egypt based on the Rogers peace plan. Nasser forestalled any movement toward direct negotiations with Israel. In dozens of speeches and statements, Nasser posited the equation that any direct peace talks with Israel were tantamount to surrender. No breakthrough occurred even after President Sadat in 1972 surprised everyone by suddenly expelling Soviet advisers from Egypt and again signaled to the United States government his willingness to negotiate.\n\nThe War of Attrition was a limited war fought between Egypt and Israel from 1967 to 1970. It was initiated by Egypt to damage Israel's morale and economy after its victory in the Six-Day War. The war ended with a ceasefire signed between the countries in 1970 with frontiers at the same place as when the war started.\n\nThe 1973 Yom Kippur War began when Egypt and Syria launched a surprise joint attack, on the Jewish day of fasting, in the Sinai Peninsula and Golan Heights. The Egyptians and Syrians advanced during the first 24–48 hours, after which momentum began to swing in Israel's favor. By the second week of the war, the Syrians had been pushed entirely out of the Golan Heights. In the Sinai to the south, the Israelis had struck at the \"hinge\" between two invading Egyptian armies, crossed the Suez Canal (where the old ceasefire line had been), and cut off an entire Egyptian army just as a United Nations ceasefire came into effect. During this time, the United States airlifted military supplies to Israel while the Soviet Union airlifted military supplies to Egypt.\n\nIsraeli troops eventually withdrew from the west of the Canal and the Egyptians kept their positions on a narrow strip on the east allowing them to re-open the Suez Canal and claim victory. According to \"The Continuum Political Encyclopedia of the Middle East\" (ed. Sela, 2002), Israel clearly had the military victory over both Syria and Egypt, but it suffered a large blow to morale as well as substantial human casualties. The outcome of the Yom Kippur War set the stage for \"a new phase in Israeli-Egyptian relations\" ending ultimately in the signing of the Camp David Accords.\n\nOperation Litani was the official name of Israel's 1978 invasion of Lebanon up to the Litani river. The invasion was a military success, as PLO forces were pushed north of the river. However, international outcry led to the creation of the UNIFIL peacekeeping force and a partial Israeli retreat.\n\nThe 1982 Lebanon War began when Israel attacked Lebanon, justified by Israel as an attempt to remove the Fatah militants led by Yasser Arafat from Southern Lebanon (where they had established, during the country's civil war, a semi-independent enclave used to launch attacks on Israel). The invasion was widely criticized both in and outside Israel, especially after the Israeli-backed Phalangist Christian militia's Sabra and Shatila massacre, and ultimately led to the death of roughly 1,000 Palestinians. Although through the war, Israel succeeded in exiling the PLO military personnel, including Arafat to Tunisia, it became entangled with various local Muslim militias (particularly Hezbollah), which fought to end the Israeli occupation.\n\nBy 1985, Israel retreated from all but a narrow stretch of Lebanese territory designated by Israel as the Israeli Security Zone. UN Security Council Resolution 425 (calling on Israel to completely withdraw from Lebanon) was not completely fulfilled until 16 June 2000. Despite UN Security Council resolutions 1559 and 1583, Hezbollah continues to have a military wing.\n\nThe First Intifada, 1987–1993, began as an uprising of Palestinians, particularly the young, against the Israeli military occupation of the West Bank and Gaza Strip after the failure of the PLO to achieve any kind of meaningful diplomatic solution to the Palestinian issue. The exiled PLO leadership in Tunisia quickly assumed a role in the \"intifada\", but the uprising also brought a rise in the importance of Palestinian national and Islamic movements, and helped lead to the Palestinian Declaration of Independence in 1988. The \"intifada\" was started by a group of young Palestinians who began throwing rocks at the Israeli occupying forces in Jabalia (Gaza Strip) in December 1987. In May 1989, the government of Yitzhak Shamir, the prime minister of Israel at the time, \"suggested that violence cease, and that elections should be held in the West Bank and Gaza for a political delegation with whom Israel would come to terms regarding the implementation of Palestinian interim self-governing authority in these areas.\" These elections however never materialized.\n\nDuring the Gulf War, 1990–1991, Iraq tried draw Israel into the confrontation and thereby make it difficult for Arab regimes to remain in the coalition. During the war, the Palestinian Liberation Organization (PLO) and King Hussein of Jordan supported Iraq's invasion of Kuwait, while PLO chairman Yasser Arafat had allegedly received $100 million from Saddam Hussein. However, under strong pressure from the US, which feared direct Israeli involvement would threaten the unity of the coalition, Israel did not retaliate against Iraq and the multinational coalition ousted Iraqi forces from Kuwait. The defeat of Saddam Hussein in the Gulf War \"was a devastating blow to ... the Palestinians.\" After the Gulf War, Kuwaiti authorities forcibly pressured nearly 200,000 Palestinians to leave Kuwait. The policy which partly led to this exodus was a response to the alignment of PLO leader Yasser Arafat with Saddam Hussein. They also withdrew their financial support from the Palestinian cause due to PLO support of Saddam Hussein. It was this political environment that allowed for the PLO to begin talks with the United States and Israel. The First Palestinian Intifada ended with the Madrid Conference of 1991 and the signing of the Oslo Accords by Israel and the PLO in 1993.\n\nIn September 1993, Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin and PLO Chairman Yasser Arafat signed the Declaration of Principles (DOP) which \"shaped the principles for a prospective process of the establishment of a five-year interim self-governing authority\" in the Palestinian territories. In May 1994, the first stage of the DOP was implemented, Arafat arrived in the Gaza Strip, and financial aid started pouring in from the parts of the Western world and Japan. Unfortunately, \"the new trend in Israeli-Palestinian relations also entailed a wave of violence by religious fanatics.\" In September 1996, after the opening of some ancient tunnels near the Temple Mount, a small wave of violence occurred. This frightened many Israelis into believing that \"the new reality created by the Oslo Agreements, namely the presence of an armed police force of approximately 30,000 Palestinians, ... could easily shift from cooperation to hostility.\"\n\nIn October 1998, Arafat and then Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu signed the Wye Memorandum which \"called for the implementation of Israel's first and second redeployments according to the DOP in three phases.\" Shortly after, Netanyahu's government fell and the Labor Party (under Ehud Barak) won control of the Knesset. Barak's election campaign was mostly geared toward a lasting peace in the Middle East by further implementation of the Wye Memorandum and the Oslo Accord. Barak won the election and attempted to deliver on his promises in 2000, when he and Arafat met at Camp David. Barak had offered Arafat a Palestinian state in all of the Gaza Strip and most of the West Bank with a capital in East Jerusalem. Arafat rejected the proposal, did not make a counteroffer, and walked away from the negotiating table.\n\nThe al-Aqsa Intifada, or Second Intifada, began in late September 2000, around the time Israeli opposition leader Ariel Sharon and a large contingent of armed bodyguards visited the Temple Mount (Haram al-Sharif) complex in Jerusalem and declared the area as an eternal Israeli territory. Widespread riots and attacks broke out among Palestinians and Arab citizens of Israel in Jerusalem and many major Israeli cities, and spread throughout the West Bank and Gaza Strip. The Palestinian Authority (PA) involvement in the Intifada was handled by the Tanzim organization, which was the secret armed branch of Arafat's Fatah party within the PLO. In January 2002, the \"PA's direct involvement in the Intifada was confirmed ... when the IDF intercepted a cargo ship in the Red Sea carrying tons of rockets, mortars, and other weapons and ammunition from Iran, earmarked for smuggling into PA <nowiki>[Palestinian Authority]</nowiki> areas.\" In March 2002, just prior to the Arab Peace Initiative, suicide bombings committed by Palestinians against Israeli civilians \"intensified ... in buses, restaurants, coffee shops, and other public places in Israel.\" An Israeli human rights group, B'Tselem, estimated the death toll to be 3,396 Palestinians and 994 Israelis, although this number is criticized for not showing the whole picture, and not differentiating between combatants and civilians (suicide bombers, for example, are counted in that death toll).\nThe Intifada also created \"heavy economic losses to both sides\" of the conflict.\n\nIn 2002, Saudi Arabia offered a peace plan in \"The New York Times\" and at a summit meeting of the Arab League in Beirut. The plan is based on, but goes beyond UN Security Council Resolution 242 and Resolution 338. It essentially calls for full withdrawal, solution of the refugee problem through the Palestinian \"right of return\", a Palestinian state with its capital in East Jerusalem in return for fully normalized relations with the whole Arab world. This proposal was the first to receive the unanimous backing of the Arab League.\n\nIn response, Israeli Foreign Minister Shimon Peres said: \"... the details of every peace plan must be discussed directly between Israel and the Palestinians, and to make this possible, the Palestinian Authority must put an end to terror, the horrifying expression of which we witnessed just last night in Netanya\", referring to the Netanya suicide attack.\n\nIn 2005, the United States Congress acknowledged that Saudi Arabia has been funding to Hamas and other Palestinian insurgency groups.\n\nIn 2005 Israel unilaterally evacuated settlements, and military outposts from the Gaza Strip and the northern West Bank.\n\nThe Disengagement Plan was a proposal by Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon, adopted by the government and enacted in August 2005, to remove a permanent Israeli presence from the Gaza Strip and from four Israeli settlements in the northern West Bank. The civilians were evacuated (many forcibly) and the residential buildings demolished after August 15, and the disengagement from the Gaza Strip was completed on 12 September 2005, when the last Israeli soldier left. The military disengagement from the northern West Bank was completed ten days later.\n\nThe 2006 Lebanon War began on 12 July 2006, with an attack by Hezbollah on Israel. Three Israeli soldiers were killed, and two were kidnapped and taken prisoner into Lebanon. In a search and rescue operation to return the captured soldiers, a further five Israeli Defense Forces troops were killed. It marked the beginning of a new wave of clashes between Israel and Hezbollah which saw the Lebanese capital, the sole Lebanese international airport, and much of southern Lebanon attacked by the Israelis, while Lebanese militias, presumably Hezbollah, bombarded northern Israeli cities, striking as far south as the city of Haifa. The conflict killed more than a thousand people, most of whom were Lebanese civilians and Hezbollah fighters; and displaced 974,184 Lebanese and 300,000-500,000 Israelis. Fears were growing that the situation could deteriorate further, with the possibility of either Syria or Iran becoming involved. But a ceasefire was signed, and went into effect 14 August.\n\nFrom the election of Mahmud Ahmedinijad as Iranian President, the Islamic Republic of Iran has actively supported numerous Arab organizations opposing Israel and has also actively called for waging war against it. Iran was widely referred as attempting to create a Shi'a Islam dominated axis, including the Syrian Ba'athist government, dominated by Alawites, Lebanon with Hezbollah dominance and making a strategic alliance with Sunni Hamas in Gaza Strip, which lasted until 2012 (terminating due to Shi'a - Sunni discourse in the Syrian civil war). In January 2007, concerns increased among Israel's leaders that President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran might be planning some sort of nuclear arms buildup, which might be considered for use in opposition to Israel. The Security Council voted to put sanctions on Iran for its pursuit of nuclear technology. There was evidence that international sanctions were creating discontent among Iranians with Ahmadinejad's policies.\n\nSome Israeli officials asserted in January 2007 that there had been some constructive progress in unpublicized talks with Syria.\nSyria has repeatedly requested that Israel re-commence peace negotiations with the Syrian government. The United States demanded that Israel desist from even exploratory contacts with Syria to test whether Damascus is serious in its declared intentions to hold peace talks with Israel. U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice was forceful in expressing Washington's view on the matter to Israeli officials that even exploratory negotiations with Syria are not to be attempted. Israel has thus far obeyed Washington's demand to desist.\n\nIn Jan. 2007, thousands gathered in Lebanon in a rally to support Hezbollah, and to celebrate the resignation of Israel's top military commander, Dan Halutz. However, in some Lebanese communities, Hezbollah lost popularity, for opposing Lebanon's national government.\n\nIn January 2006, elections were held for the Palestinian Legislative Council. Hamas won these elections, and thus secured a majority of seats. Due to the nature of their Parliamentary system, this meant they also controlled the executive posts of the Palestinian Authority, including the Prime Minister's post, and the cabinet. Ismail Haniyeh became Prime Minister. Mahmoud Abbas of Fatah remained as President.\n\nHamas gained popular support because it appeared much more efficient and much less corrupt than Fatah. It built various institutions and social services. Hamas openly declared that it did not intend to accept any recognition of Israel. It stated it would not accept the Oslo Accords, and would not accept or recognize any negotiations with Israel. Throughout previous years, it had openly stated that it encouraged and organized attacks against Israel. This created a major change in previous Israeli-Palestinian interactions, which had previously been going through various periods of negotiations.\n\nMost Western nations and international organizations did not give the Hamas lead government official recognition and responded by cutting off funds and imposing other sanctions. Mahmoud Abbas, the Palestinian President and head of Fatah, met with Khaled Meshal, the exiled head of Hamas, in Syria, in an effort to resolve differences over the direction of the Palestinian Authority and negotiations with Israel and to try to form a unity government with Hamas. The two parties did not reach a resolution.\n\nIn a meeting between Ehud Olmert and Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak in January 2007, the latter called on Israel to pursue peace more actively, but also stated that Egypt would seek to block the flow of illegal arms being smuggled into the Gaza Strip.\n\nIn June 2007, Hamas took control of Gaza, violently routing the forces of Fatah. This effectively severed control of the Palestinian territories. Those in the West Bank were under Fatah's control, with those in Gaza under the control of Hamas. Mahmoud Abbas, the Palestinian president, dissolved the government. The fighting had numerous casualties, and gave rise to refugees, who fled to Egypt and other countries. During the conflict between Hamas and Fatah, Egypt granted safe haven to several Fatah officials who fled Gaza. Egypt also stated it would help in policing the border, and impeding the flow of illegal arms. Israel and Hamas were engaged in violent conflicts in 2008–09, 2012 and 2014.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12395501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12395501", "title": "History of the Russian language in Ukraine", "text": "History of the Russian language in Ukraine\n\nThe first known mention of Russian-speaking people in Ukraine refer to a small ethnic sub-group of Russians known as the Goriuns who resided in Putyvl region (what is modern northern Ukraine). These mentions date back to the times of Grand Duchy of Lithuania or perhaps even earlier.\n\nThe Russian language in Ukraine has primarily come to exist in that country through two channels: the migration of ethnic Russians into what later became Ukraine and through the adoption of the Russian language as a language of communication by Ukrainians.\n\nThe first waves of Russian settlers onto what became Ukrainian territory came in the late 16th century to the area known as Slobozhanschyna or Sloboda Ukraina, in what is now northeastern Ukraine. This territory was settled after being abandoned by the Tatars. Russian settlers however were outnumbered by Ukrainian settlers who were escaping harsh exploitative conditions in the west.\n\nMore Russian speakers appeared in the northern, central and eastern territories that are now Ukraine during the late 17th century, following the Cossack Rebellion (1648–1657) which Bohdan Khmelnytsky led against Poland. The Khmelnytsky Uprising led to a massive movement of Ukrainian settlers to the Slobozhanschyna region, which converted it from a sparsely inhabited frontier area to one of the major populated regions of the Tsardom of Russia. Following the Pereyaslav Rada of 1654 the parts which were under the Cossack Hetmanate (a predecessor of modern Ukraine entered the Russian Tsardom. This brought significant, but still small, wave of Russian settlers into what is now central Ukraine (primarily several thousand soldiers stationed in garrisons, out of a population of approximately 1.2 million non-Russians).\n\nBeginning in the late 18th century, large numbers of Russians settled in newly acquired lands in what is now southern Ukraine, a region then known as Novorossiya (\"New Russia\"). These lands had been largely empty prior to the 18th century due to the threat of Crimean Tatar raids, but once Russia had eliminated the Tatar state as a threat, Russian nobles were granted large tracts of fertile land that was worked by newly arrived peasants, most of whom were ethnic Ukrainians but many of whom were Russians.\n\nThe 19th century saw a dramatic increase in the urban Russian population in Novorossiya and other parts which are now Ukraine, as ethnic Russian settlers moved into and populated the newly industrialised and growing towns. At the beginning of the 20th century, Russians were the largest ethnic group in almost all large cities within Ukraine's modern borders, including the following: Kiev (54.2%), Kharkiv (63.1%), Odessa (49.09%), Mykolaiv (66.33%), Mariupol (63.22%), Luhansk, (68.16%), Kherson (47.21%), Melitopol (42.8%), Dnipropetrovsk, (41.78%), Kropyvnytskyi (34.64%), Simferopol (45.64%), Yalta (66.17%), Kerch (57.8%), Sevastopol (63.46%). The Ukrainian migrants who settled in these cities entered a Russian-speaking milieu (particularly with Russian-speaking administration) and needed to adopt the Russian language.\n\nWith the gradual urbanization of Society in the late 19th century, Ukrainian migrants from rural areas who settled in the cities entered a Russian-speaking milieu. With all State educational instruction and cultural establishments using Russian many Ukrainians were forced to use the Russian language.\n\nThe Russian government promoted the spread of the Russian language among the native Ukrainian population by actively suppressing the Ukrainian language. Alarmed by the threat of Ukrainian separatism implied by a growing number of school textbooks teaching the Ukrainian language, the Russian Minister of Internal Affairs Pyotr Valuev in 1863 issued a secret decree that banned the publication of religious texts and educational texts written in the Ukrainian language. This ban was expanded by Tsar Alexander II who issued the Ems Ukaz in 1876. All Ukrainian language books and song lyrics were banned, as was the importation of such works. Furthermore, Ukrainian-language public performances, plays, and lectures were forbidden. In 1881, the decree was amended to allow the publishing of lyrics and dictionaries, and the performances of some plays in the Ukrainian language with local officials' approval. Ukrainian-only troupes were forbidden.\nWhile officially, there was no state language in the Soviet Union, Russian was in practice in a privileged position. The Ukrainian language was often frowned upon or quietly discouraged, which led to the gradual decline in its usage.\n\nIn independent Ukraine, although Russian is not an official language of the country, it continues to hold a privileged position and is widely spoken, in particular in regions of Ukraine where Soviet Russification policies were the strongest, notably most of the urban areas of the east and south.\n\nIn 1994 a referendum took place in the Donetsk Oblast and the Luhansk Oblast, with around 90% supporting the Russian language gaining status of an official language alongside Ukrainian, and for the Russian language to be an official language on a regional level; however, the referendum was annulled by the Kiev government.\n"}
{"id": "23614993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23614993", "title": "Holocaust Survivors and Grown-Up Green Leaf Party", "text": "Holocaust Survivors and Grown-Up Green Leaf Party\n\nThe Holocaust Survivors & Grown-Up Green Leaf Party () was a political party in Israel, formed as an alliance of some members of Ale Yarok (\"Green Leaf\" in Hebrew) - a liberal political party best known for its ideology of legalizing cannabis, and members of the \"New Zionism\" party, whose head was a Holocaust survivor and an activist for this cause. The party ran in the 2009 Knesset elections.\n\nThe party's chairman and first person on the list was Ohad Shem-Tov, former chairman of the Green Leaf party. On the second spot was Yaakov Peri, a Holocaust survivor and activist, who had founded the \"New Zionism - The People's Party\" in 2006 (which didn't win any seats in the government in that year's general election). The alliance between the two came as a result of disagreements within the Green Leaf party, and discussions between Shem-Tov and Peri.\n\nThe unusual alliance between these parties, one focused on Holocaust issues and the other on the legalization of recreational drugs, sparked some public controversy in Israel - critics said that this pairing was inappropriate as it was disrespecting the cause of the Holocaust. \n\nThe party's platform included: Improving government treatment of the rights of Holocaust survivors, better health care system, environmental protection, reforms in mandatory education, animal experimentations and other social economic-related issues. \n\nIt won 2,346 votes (0.07%), well below the 2% electoral threshold.\n"}
{"id": "5205582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5205582", "title": "Ioan Talpeș", "text": "Ioan Talpeș\n\nIoan Talpeș (born 24 August 1944) was a Romanian Army general, military historian and politician. He served as head of the Romanian Foreign Intelligence Service (SIE) from 1992 to 1997. In 1997-8, Talpeș served as Ambassador to Bulgaria and acted as an advisor to President Ion Iliescu from 1999 to 2000. He is currently an independent Senator representing Caraş-Severin County, having resigned from the Social Democratic Party (PSD) in May 2005 because of a scandal involving the party.\n\nTalpeș was born in Topleţ commune, Caraș-Severin County. He graduated from the University of Bucharest's Faculty of History in 1970, and received a PhD in History in 1980. The same year, he graduated from the Nicolae Bǎlcescu School of Active Officers in Sibiu.\n\nTalpeș served as a research military officer at the Bucharest Center for Study and Research in the Field of History and Military Theory (within the Defense Ministry) from 1970-1988.\n\nFollowing the Romanian Revolution of 1989 and the fall of the Nicolae Ceaușescu communist regime, Talpeș relinquished his position at Editura Militară, and served President Ion Iliescu as an advisor from July 1990 to April 1992. In March 1992, Talpeș was appointed head of SIE, a position he held until 1997. During this period, Talpeș was promoted to the rank of general.\n\nImmediately following the 1996 elections, Talpeș was immediately appointed ambassador to Bulgaria by the head of state, Emil Constantinescu. He served in that capacity until 20 December 1998, following his resignation in November.\n\nIn January 1999, Talpeș resumed his duties as a personal advisor to Ion Iliescu, who was at the time leader of the PSD. When Iliescu was again elected president of Romania in December 2000, he appointed Talpeș head of the National Security Department and chief of the Presidential Administration.\n\nOn 8 March 2004, Prime Minister Adrian Năstase appointed Talpeș State Minister for the Coordination of National Defense, European Integration, and Justice, one of three \"super minister\" positions created as part of the government reshuffle to prepare for entry in the European Union.\n\nTalpeș was elected to the Parliament of Romania in December 2004, where he continues to serve as a Senator representing his home county of Caraș-Severin.\n\nIoan Talpeș is particular mentioned in the report of the investigator of the Council of Europe to illegal activities of the U.S. secret service CIA in Europe, Dick Marty, as one of the persons, who authorized or at least knew about and have to stand accountable for torture prisons on the military base Mihail Kogălniceanu from 2003 to 2005. In April 2015, Talpeș confirmed to \"Der Spiegel\" that from 2003-2006, he had allowed the CIA use of a building in Bucharest. Talpeș stated he never visited the building and explicitly told his CIA counterpart that the Romanians did not want to know what was taking place inside.\n\n"}
{"id": "56587226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56587226", "title": "Johann Jakob Fugger", "text": "Johann Jakob Fugger\n\nJohann Jakob Fugger or Hans Jakob Fugger (23 December 1516, Augsburg - 14 July 1575, Munich) was a German banker and patron of the arts and sciences from the \"von der Lilie\" (\"of the Lily\") line of the noted Fugger banking family.\n\nHe was the son of Raymund Fugger (1489–1535) and his wife Katharina (1488–1535), daughter of János Thurzó, owner of a mining company. Johann Jakob inherited the business from his father's brother Anton Fugger in 1560 but did not prove so fortunate in his business dealings - the family had lent money to Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor, landing them in deep trouble when Spain went bankrupt. Johann Jakob had to sell off his whole collection (except his library) to improve matters and handed the business over to his cousin Marcus (1529–1597), who was able to consolidate it. In 1565 he entered Albert V's service and later became president of his privy chamber.\n\nOn Titian's advice, Johann Jakob brought Titian's pupil Antonio Ponzano to Augsburg to paint frescoes in the inner courtyard of the Fuggerhäuser - frescoes had already been painted on the building's inner courtyard and outer wall by Hans Burckmair the Younger (1500–1562) and Albrecht Altdorfer. Jacopo Strada also acted as Johann Jakob's art agent in Italy. He was in correspondence with cardinal de Grandvelle - one of his letters to him was included in Pelisson's \"Traité de la Tolérance des religions\" (\"Treatise on Tolerance of religions\"). He also had a major library and tried to convince Hieronymus Wolf to become its librarian. In 1571 he sold it to Albert V, making it the nucleus of the Bayerische Staatsbibliothek.\n\nJohann Jakob is also thought to be the author of the two folio-volume \"Wahrhaftigen Beschreibung des österreichischen und habsburgischen Rahmens, Herkommens, Geschlechte, Fortpflanzung\" (\"True Description of the Austrian and Habsburg Houses...\"), written in German, with over 30,000 coats of arms, seals, portraits and other images. Copies of it survive in libraries in Vienna and Dresden, Lambécius and Rollar published fragments from it and Sigismond de Birken published an extract under the title \"Spiegel der Ehren des höchstlöblichen Kayser- und Königlichen Ertzhauses Oesterreich\" (\"Mirror of the Lords of the most high Imperial and Kingly House of Austria\").\n\nHe married twice:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1095898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1095898", "title": "John Malcolm", "text": "John Malcolm\n\nMajor-general Sir John Malcolm GCB, KLS (2 May 1769 – 30 May 1833) was a Scottish soldier, diplomat, East India Company administrator, statesman, and historian.\n\nSir John Malcolm was born in 1769, one of seventeen children of George Malcolm, an impoverished tenant farmer in Eskdale in the Scottish Border country, and his wife Margaret (‘Bonnie Peggy’), née Pasley. He left school, family and country at the age of thirteen, and achieved distinction in the East India Company over the next half century. A spirited character, he was nicknamed ‘Boy Malcolm’; for throughout his life he retained a youthful enthusiasm for field sports and fun and games. But behind this boisterous exterior lay serious intellectual ability and a considerable talent for government.\n\nArriving at Madras in 1783 as an ensign in the East India Company’s Madras Army, he served as a regimental soldier for eleven years, before spending a year in Britain to restore his health. He returned to India in 1795 as Military Secretary to General Sir Alured Clarke, participating en route in Clarke’s capture of the Cape of Good Hope.\nIn the Anglo-Mysore war of 1799 he served with the Hyderabad contingent, and later as joint secretary of the Peace Commission setting up the new government of Mysore. Later that year he was selected by the Governor-General (Lord Mornington, later Marquess Wellesley) to lead a diplomatic mission to Iran. Following his return in 1801 he became Wellesley’s private secretary, based in Calcutta (Kolkata).\n\nIn the Anglo-Maratha war of 1803-05 he accompanied Sir Arthur Wellesley (later Duke of Wellington) as the Governor-General’s representative and diplomatic agent; the two men forming a lifelong friendship. In 1804 he was appointed British Resident at Mysore, but in 1805-6 saw further service in north India with General Lake.\n\nIn early 1808 the Governor-General, Lord Minto, sent him on a second mission to Iran, but at this time French influence was dominant in Tehran, and he was rebuffed. Later that year a separate mission from London under Sir Harford Jones arrived in Iran and achieved success, the Iran government having by then become disenchanted with the French. Malcolm was again sent to Iran in 1810, but by that time the British government had decided to conduct diplomatic relations with Iran directly from London, and appointed Sir Gore Ouseley as ambassador.\n\nIn 1812 Malcolm returned to Britain for five years’ furlough, and spent much of his time as a writer, completing his \"History of Iran\" (the first in English derived directly from Iran sources) in 1815. For this he received an honorary DCL from the University of Oxford. Returning to India in 1817, he acted as the Governor-General’s agent in negotiations leading up to the third (and last) Anglo-Maratha war. He also acted as a general, leading Company troops to victory against Maharajah Holkar at the decisive battle of Mehidpoor (Mahidpur) in December 1817. In January 1818, Malcolm was placed by the Marquis of Hastings in the military and political charge of Central India (roughly, today’s Madhya Pradesh); during the four years he filled that station, his attention was directed to the object of collecting materials for the illustration of its past and present condition. The report hereof he sent to Calcutte, where it was printed by order of Government. Disappointed to being superseded for the governorship of Bombay and Madras by his juniors, Malcolm left for Britain in 1822, where he lived with his family as a country gentleman, completing two more books.\n\nIn 1827 he was appointed Governor of Bombay. His governorship was generally successful, despite controversy over an unfortunate quarrel with the judges of the Bombay Supreme Court, who sought to extend their jurisdiction beyond Bombay to the Deccan hinterland, newly acquired by the Company from the Maratha Peshwa of Poona. In seeking to end both sati (the self-immolation of widows on their husband's funeral pyres) and female infanticide by moral persuasion, Malcolm visited Gujarat in February 1830 and met Sahajanand Swami, the founder of the Swaminarayan sect of Hinduism, who was advocating similar reforms. He has ever since been remembered in Swaminarayan literature. Together with his predecessor, Mountstuart Elphinstone, he was a pioneer in the promotion of Indian education and the training of Indians for the higher ranks of government. He also served as president of the Literary Society of Bombay\n\nIn 1831 Malcolm finally returned to Britain, and immediately became a Member of Parliament for the rotten borough of Launceston, supporting his friend the Duke of Wellington in opposition to the Reform Bill. He bought Warfield Hall from the Parry family and busied himself renovating it. His last public act was a speech in April 1833 to the Proprietors (shareholders) of the East India Company, persuading them to accept the Government’s terms for renewal of its Charter. Immediately afterwards he suffered a stroke, and died on 30 May 1833. He was buried in St James's Church, Piccadilly.\n\nThere are statues of Sir John Malcolm in Westminster Abbey's north transept and in the Town Hall in Bombay. There is also a 100 foot high obelisk celebrating Malcolm’s achievements on the top of Whita Hill, above Langholm in Scotland.\n\nIn 1807 he married (in Mysore) Isabella Charlotte, the second daughter of General Sir Alexander Campbell. She bore five children, including George Alexander Malcolm.\n\nTogether with his contemporaries Mountstuart Elphinstone and Sir Thomas Munro, Malcolm was an architect of three early principles of British rule, whose wisdom “was too soon forgotten and remembered too late”.\nFour main themes can be identified. Firstly, India was to be ruled for the benefit of the Company – but also of Indians, i.e. no British settlers. \nSecondly, indirect rule was to be preferred, leaving existing Indian rulers in place wherever possible, with minimal disturbance of traditional methods of governance, religion and social structure.\nThirdly, Malcolm helped to develop the role of the District Officer, a small group of powerful administrators with minimal overt force to support them.\nFourthly, Malcolm promoted a ‘forward’ foreign policy; meaning diplomatic engagement with neighbouring states such as Iran, Afghanistan and Central Asia.\n\nHe was a mentor and inspiration to several celebrated Anglo-Indian statesmen – among them Henry Pottinger, Charles Metcalfe, Alexander Burnes and Henry Rawlinson\n\nMalcolm wrote nine books, plus a volume of poetry, as follows:\n\n\"Sketch of the Sikhs\", 1812\n\n\"Sketch of the Political History of India,\" 1811\n\n\"Disturbances in the Madras Army in 1809,\" 1812\n\n\"The History of Persia,\" 1815\n\n\"A Memoir of Central India,\" 1823\n\n\"The Political History of India,\" 1826\n\n\"Sketches of Persia; this book is not written by Malcolm,but by one of his companions in his mission to Iran ;the writer remains anonymous and has introduced himself as the traveler ;he has referred to Malcolm in his text as ilchi ,which is a Persian word means envoy of a foreign country . ,\" 1827\n\n\"The Government of India,\" 1833\n\n\"The Life of Robert, Lord Clive,\" 1836 (posthumous)\n\n"}
{"id": "30372471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30372471", "title": "John of Tynemouth (chronicler)", "text": "John of Tynemouth (chronicler)\n\nJohn of Tynemouth (sometimes John of York) was a medieval English chronicler who flourished in the mid-14th-century.\n\nLittle is known of his background. According to medieval accounts, he was claimed to have been the vicar of the parish of Tynemouth in Northumberland. From his writings, he was familiar with the area around Wheatley, near Winchester, which might mean that he could be identified with John Whetely, who is known to have been the vicar at Tynemouth during the 1350s and 1360s. Or possibly, the Wheatley was the one in Yorkshire, which would explain the alternate name he is occasionally given in manuscripts, John York. John may have been a monk of St Albans Abbey, for his work was early associated with that monastery, and the vicar at Tynemouth was appointed by the prior of the monastic priory at Tynemouth that was a dependent priory of St Albans.\n\nJohn was the author of a chronicle, the \"Historia aurea\", which was a work composed about 1350. It was a history of the world from the creation to 1347. He used as sources a shortened version of the \"Polychronicon\". The \"Historia\" survives in full in manuscripts that were originally from Durham Cathedral, Bury St Edmunds Abbey, and St Albans. The St Albans copies, however, are only dated to the 15th-century, which undercuts the idea that John might have been a monk at that abbey. The \"Historia\" also survives in shortened versions.\n\nBesides the \"Historia\", he also authored a \"Sanctilogium\", or \"Sanctilogium Angliae Walliae Scotiae et Hiberniae\", which gave the lives of 156 English saints. The \"Sanctilogium\" survives in a single manuscript, now in the British Library, where it is Cotton Library MS Tiberius E.i. He also wrote a \"Martyrologium\", which survives in some extracts that are appended to one of the manuscripts of the \"Historia aurea\".\n\n"}
{"id": "57038494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57038494", "title": "Judy Bennett (historian)", "text": "Judy Bennett (historian)\n\nJudith Ann Bennett (born 1944) is a New Zealand historian. She is currently a full professor at the University of Otago.\n\nBennett wrote a 1979 PhD thesis at Australian National University titled, \" 'Wealth of the Solomons: a history of trade, plantations and society, Solomon Islands, c.1800–1942' \" studying the colonial history of the Solomon Islands and has spent much of her career researching, writing and teaching about the Pacific and its history.\n\nBennett has received two Marsden grants, the first to research the children of American servicemen and pacific women and the second to research the history of the coconut and its trade.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29230379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29230379", "title": "King Tut (comics)", "text": "King Tut (comics)\n\nKing Tut is the name of different fictional characters in DC Comics. The first depiction of the character made his television debut in \"Batman: The Curse of Tut\" (April 13, 1966). He was created by Earl Barret, Robert C. Dennis and Charles R. Rondeau, and portrayed by Victor Buono. In his memoir \"Back to the Batcave\", Adam West describes him as the only villain created for the TV series to be a real success.\n\nA second depiction of King Tut made his comic book debut in \"Batman Confidential\" No. 26, (April 2009), this version was created by Christina Weir, Nunzio DeFilippis and José Luis García-López. \n\nThe character of King Tut started out on the Batman television line episodes of the series' original run.\n\nKing Tut recently made his debut in the DC Comics Universe, appearing in the pages of \"Batman Confidential\" No. 26 (April 2009).\n\nKing Tut began as Professor William Omaha McElroy (portrayed by Victor Buono), an Egyptologist at Yale University. After a blow to the head during a student riot, the Professor developed amnesia and thereafter believed he was a reincarnation of King Tut. He sought to take over Gotham City and defeat Batman and Robin. He was defeated by another blow to the head, returning him to his normal state.\n\nThe pattern would follow for subsequent appearances—he would suffer a blow to the head, believe himself to be King Tut, fight Batman and Robin for control of Gotham City, only to suffer another blow to the head, which would return him to his real self. As such, he would be the only villain not to be jailed for his actions (the insanity defense would apply here). Completely cognizant of what happens during his states of amnesia, Professor McElroy tried to prevent the personality switching by wearing a reinforced hat to prevent unwanted blows, but without success.\n\nKing Tut attempted to release a handful of ancient scarab beetles on Gotham City in the second season of the series. With the beetles in his possession, Tut would have the ability to create a terrible ancient potion called \"abu raubu simbu tu\", which can be used to subdue the human will. Tut planned on concocting 95,000 gallons of the drug, more than enough to put all of Gotham under his power. His first victim was the head of the Gotham City Police, Chief O'Hara, who Tut commanded to perform acrobatics on the ledge of a building. King Tut nearly succeeded in his sinister plot, having tricked Batman into taking the drug as well. However, Batman protected himself from the drug's hypnotic power by coating his stomach with buttermilk. While trying to escape, Tut accidentally swallowed the drug himself and became Batman's slave, which allowed Batman and Robin to safely take King Tut to Commissioner Gordon's office where he reverted to his normal self.\n\nIn the episodes \"King Tut's Coup\" and \"Batman's Waterloo,\" Professor McElroy is approached by two Yale students who ask him about his King Tut side. He tells them about it while he mentions that he had to wear a reinforced hat to prevent unwanted blows. The moment he shows off his hat, three flower pots hit the three of them on the head. While Professor McElroy became King Tut again, the two students develop the personalities of King Tut's Royal Jester and Lord Chancellor. Together with a female moll named Neila, they plotted to capture Lisa Carson. With help from Neila, Batman and Robin were able to get King Tut hit on the head again regressing him back to Professor McElroy.\n\nIn \"The Unkindliest Tut of All,\" it was mentioned by Commissioner Gordon to Batman that Professor McElroy was hit on the head by a brick while at a love-in. King Tut sets himself up as a crime predictor and even claims that Bruce Wayne is Batman. While claiming that there will be a raid on Gotham State Penitentiary to free all of its arch-criminals, King Tut targets a scroll that will take him to the statue of a god. With help from Batgirl, Batman and Robin defeat King Tut and his henchmen. While at the Gotham City Police Department, King Tut still claims that Batman is Bruce Wayne when Commissioner Gordon gets a call from a beat cop that Louie the Lilac was sighted.\n\nIn his final appearance in the series titled \"I'll Be a Mummy's Uncle,\" King Tut gets out of his therapy lesson and buys a plot of land adjacent to Wayne Manor as part of a plan to obtain a rare mineral. The villain tunneled beneath the manor and accidentally discovered the subterranean Batcave. He realized that Batman and Bruce Wayne were the same person. Batman and Robin then battled Tut and his henchmen in the Batcave. The Dynamic Duo administered a drug spray to the henchmen that would erase their recent memory. Tut, however, fled to the surface via the tunnel after all the spray ran out from the can. Once at the top of the tunnel, Tut was about to reveal his discovery of the Batcave—and Batman's true identity of Bruce Wayne—to Commissioner Gordon, when Batman provoked Tut to raise his voice, thereby causing a rock to fall on his head, knocking him out. When Tut regained consciousness, he was once again Prof. McElroy, with no memories of Batman's secret identity. Seeing that he is late for his class, Professor McElroy runs off with Commissioner Gordon and Chief O'Hara still asking who Batman is.\n\nKing Tut later popped up in \"The Entrancing Dr. Cassandra\" yet a body double (Guy Way) was portraying King Tut at the time. He alongside Joker, Riddler, Penguin, Catwoman, and Egghead were freed from Gotham State Penitentiary by Dr. Cassandra Spellcraft and Cabala. When explaining her plans to rule Gotham City, she gives King Tut the job to rob the museums. The villains were defeated by Batman, Robin, and Batgirl.\n\nTut's hideouts sometimes included an \"apothecary\", the only one in Gotham, in the \"Pyramid\" building.\n\nThe comic book version of King Tut is shown to be Victor Goodman, a criminal Egyptologist who targets and murders wealthy citizens, and leaves Egyptian-themed riddles, similar to the Riddle of the Sphinx. Batman teams up with the Riddler, who does not appreciate his modus operandi being stolen, and agrees to help to stop Goodman. They managed to defeat King Tut who is sent to prison until he is transferred to Arkham Asylum.\n\nHis alter-ego is an homage to actor Victor Buono.\n\nKing Tut appears on \"\" voiced by John DiMaggio. Due to copyright issues with FOX, King Tut is referred to in the synopsis as \"Pharaoh\". In \"Day of the Dark Knight!\", he is shown as a convict trying to escape Iron Heights Penitentiary, but was foiled by Batman and Green Arrow. The other convicts that Tut escapes with are either common criminals, the show's supervillains, or other villains from the Adam West series (including Egghead, The Bookworm, Archer, Louie The Lilac and Shame who are recognized both by face features and their trademark hats). Tut makes another jailbreak cameo at Blackgate Penitentiary in \"Night of the Huntress!\". In \"Battle of the Superheroes!\", Batman and Robin wear special mummified suits in order to fight Pharaoh when he uses a special staff to turn people into zombies that obey his every command (The wrappings are coated in buttermilk, another reference to the live-action Batman series). With some pictures taken by Vicki Vale, Batman and Robin managed to defeat Pharaoh and freed his victims.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5808541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5808541", "title": "Legio", "text": "Legio\n\nLegio was a Roman military camp south of Tel Megiddo in the Roman province of Galilee. \nThe approximate location of the camp of the Legio VI Ferrata was known from the persistence of its name in the form Lajjun by which a Palestinian Arab village was known. It was close to the ancient town of Rimmon, perhaps the Hadad-rimmon of , which in the 3rd century was renamed Maximianopolis (City of Maximian) by Diocletian in honour of his co-emperor Maximian. Both places were within a single episcopal see, generally called Maximianopolis, but in one list of such sees the name \"Legionum\" (genitive plural of the Latin word \"Legio\") is used, where the Greek original has \"Maximianopolis\".\n\nIn 2002–2003, an archaeological survey was conducted in the Legio region by Yotam Tepper as part of his master's thesis. The survey located the legionary camp on the northern slope of El-Manach hill, the village of Ceparcotani on the adjacent hill, and the city of Maximianopolis on the site of the contemporary Kibbutz Megiddo. In 2013 Tepper and the Jezreel Valley Regional Project dug test trenches measuring approximately 295 feet by 16.5 feet that revealed clear evidence of the camp. No military headquarters of this type for this particular period had yet been excavated in the entire Eastern Empire, and the 2013 excavations uncovered defensive earthworks, a circumvallation rampart, barracks areas and artefacts including roof tiles stamped with the name of the Sixth Legion, coins and fragments of scale armor.\n\nIn 2017, a monumental gate to the camp’s headquarters, a stone mark and a dedicatory inscription were discovered that may be a listing of camp commanders or celebrated heroes of the Sixth Legion. In the camp’s latrines, more than 200 Roman coins dating to the 2nd and 3rd centuries were found. Cremated human remains were discovered in a cooking pot. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "23192142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23192142", "title": "Margarita Tacheva", "text": "Margarita Tacheva\n\nMargarita Tacheva () (June 4, 1936 – December 18, 2008) was an eminent Bulgarian historian, a full professor in ancient history and Thracology.\n\n\nAcademic career —\nhttps://web.archive.org/web/20091019212054/http://www.clio.uni-sofia.bg/tacheva/index.html\n\nCurriculum vitae —\nhttp://www.history.swu.bg/PDF/cv.pdf\n\nList of selected publications —\nhttps://web.archive.org/web/20101128160934/http://www.clio.uni-sofia.bg/tacheva/BMT.pdf\n\nBibliography of Proff. Dr. Margarita Tacheva, Dr. Litt. —\nhttp://www.history.swu.bg/PDF/1.pdf\n"}
{"id": "45190488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45190488", "title": "Michael ab Isselt", "text": "Michael ab Isselt\n\nMichael ab Isselt (1530/40–1597), sometimes cited in the German form von Isselt, was a Dutch Catholic exile in Cologne and a chronicler of the late 16th century. He is best known as the compiler (under the pseudonym \"D. M. Jansonio\") of the first \"Mercurius Gallobelgicus\", a semi-annual overview of important current events.\n\nIsselt was born between 1530 and 1540 in Amersfoort in the Lordship of Utrecht. He studied at the University of Leuven and became a priest. During the Dutch Revolt he went into exile in Cologne, where he became an active writer, recording contemporary events from a Catholic perspective. He died in Hamburg on 17 October 1597. He also edited the works of Louis of Granada for publication in Cologne, translating some from Spanish or Italian into Latin.\n\n"}
{"id": "48777654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48777654", "title": "National Historic Lookout Register", "text": "National Historic Lookout Register\n\nThe National Historic Lookout Register is a program administered by the United States Forest Service, the Forest Fire Lookout Association, the National Forestry Association, the National Woodland Owners Association, state forestry departments and Department of Interior agencies to recognize historic fire lookout towers in the United States. It was established in 1990.\n\n"}
{"id": "2602426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2602426", "title": "Ronald Langacker", "text": "Ronald Langacker\n\nRonald Wayne Langacker (born December 27, 1942) is an American linguist and professor emeritus at the University of California, San Diego. He is best known as one of the founders of the cognitive linguistics movement and the creator of cognitive grammar. He has also made significant contributions to the comparative study of Uto-Aztecan languages, publishing several articles on historical Uto-Aztecan linguistics, as well as editing collections of grammar sketches of under-described Uto-Aztecan languages.\n\nBorn in Fond du Lac, Wisconsin, Langacker received his Ph.D. from the University of Illinois at Urbana–Champaign in 1966. From 1966 until 2003, he was professor of linguistics at the University of California, San Diego. From 1997 until 1999 he also served as president of the International Cognitive Linguistics Association.\n\nLangacker develops the central ideas of cognitive grammar in his seminal, two-volume \"Foundations of Cognitive Grammar\", which became a major departure point for the emerging field of cognitive linguistics. Cognitive grammar treats human languages as consisting solely of semantic units, phonological units, and symbolic units (conventional pairings of phonological and semantic units). Like construction grammar, and unlike many mainstream linguistic theories, cognitive grammar extends the notion of symbolic units to the grammar of languages. Langacker further assumes that linguistic structures are motivated by general cognitive processes. In formulating his theory, he makes extensive use of principles of gestalt psychology and draws analogies between linguistic structure and aspects of visual perception.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28374432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28374432", "title": "Rubellite Kawena Johnson", "text": "Rubellite Kawena Johnson\n\nRubellite \"Ruby\" Kawena Kinney Johnson is a Historian of Hawaii.\n\nHer father was Ernest Kaipoleimanu Kinney (1906–1987) and mother was Esther Kauikeaulani Kaulili (1913–1979).\nHer maternal grandparents were Solomon Kamaha Kaulili and Kawena Ah Chong. Her paternal grandparents were William Kihapiilani Kinney (1868–1953) and Mary Francesca Vierra (c. 1879–1915).\nHer paternal great-grandfather was William Kinney (1832–1915) who came to the Hawaiian Islands from Nova Scotia.\nShe was named for the mineral rubellite which is more commonly called tourmaline.\nHer grandfather was also known as K. W. Kinney to avoid confusion with his half-brother William Ansel Kinney who became a prominent lawyer.\nAnother of her grandfather's half-brothers, Ray Kinney (1900–1979), became a popular Hawaiian musician. She was born on the island of Kauai.\nShe married geophysicist Rockne H. Johnson, and had at least one daughter Kaleihanamau Johnson.\n\nFrom 1967 to 1993 she was on the faculty of the University of Hawaii, where she helped establish its Hawaiian studies program. She then became Professor Emeritus of Hawaiian Language and Literature and continued to publish. She researched the history of the Kumulipo, a sacred chant of Hawaiian mythology, and early newspapers in the Hawaiian language.\n\nJohnson was named one of the Living Treasures of Hawai'i in 1983 by the Honpa Hongwanji Mission of Hawai'i.\nShe was selected as an advisory committee to the United States Commission on Civil Rights. She generally opposes the Akaka Bill.\nShe submitted testimony as an expert witness on March 1, 2005 at the US Senate Committee on Indian Affairs.\n\n"}
{"id": "8052510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8052510", "title": "San Girolamo dei Croati", "text": "San Girolamo dei Croati\n\nSaint Jerome of the Croats is the national Catholic church of Croatia on Via Tomacelli in the Campus Martius of Rome. It is now a chapel of the Pontifical Croatian College of Saint Jerome in Rome and is only open to visitors by arrangement with the College.\n\nIt is also known as \"St. Jerome of the Illyrians\" (), and was formerly known as \"St. Jerome of the Slavs\" (). It changed its name after Croatia gained independence from Yugoslavia in 1991.\n\nIt was first built in 1585-1587 for refugees from areas ruled by the Turks, and dedicated to St Jerome, who was from Dalmatia (former Roman \"Illyricum\"). The site had been given to them in 1453 (the year of the Fall of Constantinople) by Pope Nicholas V, for the construction of a hospice. It once faced the port built on the Tiber River, called the Porto di Ripetta.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "193243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=193243", "title": "Shorts", "text": "Shorts\n\nShorts are a garment worn over the pelvic area, circling the waist and splitting to cover the upper part of the legs, sometimes extending down to the knees but not covering the entire length of the leg. They are called \"shorts\" because they are a shortened version of trousers, which cover the entire leg, but not the foot. Shorts are typically worn in warm weather or in an environment where comfort and air flow are more important than the protection of the legs.\nThere are a variety of shorts, ranging from knee-length short trousers that can in some situations be worn as formal clothes to beachwear and athletic shorts. Some types of shorts are typically worn by women, such as culottes, which are a divided skirt resembling a pair of loose-cut shorts.\n\nIn British English the term \"short trousers\" has been used, but only for shorts that are a short version of real trousers (pants), e.g. tailored shorts, often lined, as typically worn as part of school uniform for boys up to their early teens, and by servicemen and policemen in tropical climates. The American term \"short pants\" is probably the nearest equivalent in the US, there they might now be called \"dress shorts\", a term that has not gained much currency in Britain. A somewhat similar garment worn by men in Australia is called \"stubbies\". \"Shorts\" is used unqualified in British English to refer to sports shorts, athletic shorts, or casual shorts: the last is nowadays commonplace in warm weather in the UK.\n\nThe term \"boxer shorts\" was an American coinage for a particular kind of men's underwear, and is now common in Britain. However, boxer shorts are often referred to as \"boxers\" in the USA. The word \"pants\" refers to outerwear (trousers) in American usage (except when modified to \"underpants\") but when used unqualified in British English generally means underwear.\n\nIn much of Europe and the Americas during the 19th and early 20th centuries, shorts were worn as outerwear only by young boys until they reached a certain height or maturity. When boys got older, typically around puberty, they would receive their first pair of long trousers. This produced the perception that shorts were only for young boys. Because of this, men would not wear shorts to avoid looking immature. Women tended not to wear shorts in most cultures, due to social mores: they were expected to wear dresses, or skirts and blouses.\n\nIn the 1890s, knee pants (an early type of short pants) became the standard wear for American boys. Many urban school portraits from the 1890s show all but the oldest boys wearing knee pants. North American boys normally wore knee pants with short stockings. This began to change after the 1900s when North American boys began wearing knickerbockers, while short pants became more popular in Europe. In the 1930s, shorts started to be worn for casual comfort (e.g. outdoor and athletic activities) by both men and women. However, it was still taboo to wear shorts outside certain activities.\n\nSince about the time of The First World War, when many soldiers served in tropical locations, adult men have worn shorts more often, especially in summer weather, but the perception of shorts as being only for young boys took several decades to change, and to some extent still exists in certain circles. By the late 20th century however it became common for men to wear shorts as casual wear in summer.\n\nHowever, in many countries there are few formal settings where wearing shorts would be acceptable, as they are considered casual wear. Notable exceptions where men may wear short trousers to the office or at a formal gathering are South Africa, Bermuda, Australia and New Zealand. Since the 1990s, casual office dress has grown to include formal shorts in some U.K. and U.S. businesses, but by no means universally.\n\nAdults are also commonly seen wearing shorts, however wearing shorts is less common among women in traditional eastern countries than in the West, although this varies widely by region - women more often wear shorts in large, cosmopolitan cities. In some countries adult women can be seen wearing loose-fitting shorts that end at or just below the knee, as these are seen as sufficiently modest.\n\n"}
{"id": "1076475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1076475", "title": "Thrall", "text": "Thrall\n\nA thrall (Old Norse/Icelandic: \"þræll\", Norwegian: \"trell\", Danish: \"træl\", Swedish: \"träl\") was a slave or serf in Scandinavian lands during the Viking Age. The corresponding term in Old English was þēow. The status of slave (\"þræll\", \"þēow \") contrasts with that of the freeman (\"karl\", \"ceorl\") and the nobleman (\"jarl\", \"eorl\"). The Middle Latin rendition of the term in early Germanic law is \"servus\". The social system of serfdom was continued in medieval feudalism.\n\nThrall is from the Old Norse \"þræll\", meaning a person who is in bondage or serfdom. The Old Norse term was lent into late Old English, as \"þræl\". \nThe term is from a Common Germanic \"þragilaz\" (\"runner\", from a root *\"þreh-\" \"to run\"). Old High German had a cognate, \"dregil\", meaning \"servant, runner\".\nThe English derivation \"thraldom\" is of High Medieval date. The verb \"to enthrall\" is of Early Modern origin (metaphorical use from the 1570s, literal use from 1610).\n\nThe corresponding native term in Anglo-Saxon society was \"þeow\" (from Germanic *\"þewa-\", perhaps from a PIE root *\"tek-\", \"to run\") \nA related Old English term is \"esne\" \"labourer, hireling\" (from Germanic *\"asniz\", cognate with Gothic \"asneis\" \"hireling\", a derivation from \"*asunz\" \"reward\", from the same root as English \"earn\").\n\nThe \"thrall\" represents the lowest of the three-tiered social order of the Germanic peoples, noblemen, freemen and slaves, in Old Norse \"jarl\", \"karl\" and \"þræll\" (c.f. \"Rígsþula\"), in Old English corresponding to \"eorl\", \"ceorl\" and þēow, in Old Frisian \"etheling\", \"friling\", \"lēt\", etc.\nThe division is of importance in the Germanic law codes, which make special provisions for slaves: Slaves are property, and may be bought and sold, but they also enjoy some amount of protection under the law.\nWhile the death of a freeman was compensated by means of a weregild, usually calculated at 200 solidi (shillings) for a freeman, the death of a slave was treated as loss of property to his owner and compensated depending on the value of the worker.\n\nThralls were the lowest class of workers in Scandinavian society. They were Northern and Eastern Europeans who were enslaved due to being prisoners of war, incurring debt, or being born into the class via their parents. Thralls in Scandinavia had no rights and their living conditions were variable depending on the master. The thrall trade as the prize of plunder was a key part of the Viking economy. While there are some estimates of as many as thirty slaves per household, most families only owned one or two slaves.\n\nIn 1043, Hallvard Vebjørnsson, the son of a local nobleman in the district of greater Lier, was killed while trying to defend a thrall woman from men who accused her of theft. The Church strongly approved of his action, recognizing him as a martyr and canonizing him as Saint Hallvard, the patron saint of Oslo.\n\nDespite the existence of a caste system, thralls could experience a level of social fluidity. Thralls could be freed by their masters at any time, be freed in a will, or even buy their own freedom. Once a thrall was freed, he became a \"freedman\"—a member of an intermediary group between slaves and freemen. He still owed allegiance to his former master and would have to vote according to his former master's wishes. It took at least two generations for freedmen to lose the allegiance to their former masters and become full freemen. If a freedman had no descendants, his former master inherited his land and property.\n\nWhile thralls and freedmen did not have much economic or political power in Scandinavia, they were still given a \"wergeld\", or a man's price, which is to say, there was a monetary penalty for unlawfully killing a slave.\n\nThe era of Viking raids resulting in the capture of slaves slowly ended in the 11th century. In the following centuries, more and more thralls obtained their freedom, either by purchasing it or on the initiative of their masters, the church or the secular authority. The thrall system was finally abolished in Scandinavia in the mid-14th century.\n\n"}
{"id": "35546730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35546730", "title": "Timeline of Serer history", "text": "Timeline of Serer history\n\nThis is a timeline of the history and development of Serer religion and the Serer people of Senegal, The Gambia and Mauritania. This timeline merely gives an overview of their history, consisting of calibrated archaeological discoveries in , Serer religion, , , etc. Dates are given according to the Common Era. For a background to these events, see Roog, Serer religion, Serer creation myth, Serer prehistory, Lamane, States headed by Serer Lamanes, Serer history and Serer people.\n\n\nMany of the Serer village and town names they have founded still survives today.\n\n\nThis era marks the exodus of the Serers of Tekrur. Those who survived the wars and refused to convert migrated southwards to what later became known as the Serer Kingdoms of Sine, Saloum and previously Baol, rather than convert to Islam. In the south, they were granted asylum by their distant Serer relatives, endorsed by the Great Council of Lamanes, the highest court in Serer country. Trimingham notes that, Tekrur was the first in the region to adopt Islam but lost completely its Serer identity. War Jabi died in 1040 and was succeeded by his son Leb (or Labi), also a major ally of the Almoravids. Leb is reported to have been fighting for the Almoravids in 1056 probably as a result of the subjugation of Tekrur by the Almoravids in 1042 and a well enforced Sharia law. Economically, the Kingdom of Tekrur benefit with the introduction of Islam. It also created political ties with the North. Many Fulanis/Toucouleurs were part of the Almoravid army that conquered parts of Europe.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36088690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36088690", "title": "Timeline of Skanderbeg", "text": "Timeline of Skanderbeg\n\nThis timeline lists important events relevant to the life of George Kastrioti Skanderbeg (6 May 1405 – 17 January 1468), widely known as Skanderbeg.\n\n1405\n\n\n1409\n\n1423\n\n\n14231426\n\n1426\n\n1428\n\n1430\n\n1431\n\n1432—1436\n\n1437\n\n1438\n\n1439\n\n1440\n\n\n1443\n\n1444\n\n1445\n\n1446\n\n1447\n\n1448\n\n\n1449\n\n1450\n\n1451\n\n1452\n\n\n1453\n\n1454\n\n1455\n\n1456\n\n1457\n\n1458\n\n1459\n\n1460\n\n1461\n\n1462\n\n1463\n\n1464\n\n1465\n\n\n1466\n\n\n1467\n\n1468\n\n"}
{"id": "38583925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38583925", "title": "United Restitution Organization", "text": "United Restitution Organization\n\nThe United Restitution Organization (URO) was established in 1948 as a legal aid service to assist victims of Nazi persecution living outside Germany in making restitution and indemnification claims against Germany and Austria. The URO has served over 250,000 clients. It helped Jews, Roma, and other victims of Nazi crimes. At its most expansive, the URO maintained 29 offices in 15 countries around the world. British barrister Norman Bentwich was the chairman of the URO board from 1948 until his death in 1971, and Kurt May, a German-born lawyer who had fled the Nazis in 1934 after he defended a leading Social Democrat wrongly accused of being a Communist, served as its director from the early 1950s until 1990.\n\n"}
{"id": "30794815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30794815", "title": "Vasil Gyuzelev", "text": "Vasil Gyuzelev\n\nVasil Todorov Gyuzelev (, born 19 October 1936) is a Bulgarian historian who studies Bulgaria during the Middle Ages.\n\nGyuzelev was born in the village of Rakovski (today part of Dimitrovgrad) in 1936. Between 1954 and 1959 he studies history and archaeology in the Sofia University and then worked for a short time in the Museum of History in Dimitrovgrad. Gyuzelev worked in the Sofia university and served as a director of the National Museum of History between 1975 and 1977. In 1995 he became associate member and in 2003 academician of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. Gyuzelev is author of more than 50 books and 240 articles.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13369224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13369224", "title": "Victor Vitensis", "text": "Victor Vitensis\n\nVictor Vitensis (or Victor of Vita; born circa 430) was an African bishop of the Province of Byzacena (called Vitensis from his See of Vita). His importance rests on his \"Historia persecutionis Africanae Provinciae, temporibus Genserici et Hunirici regum Wandalorum\" (\"A History of the African Province Persecution, in the Times of Genseric and Huneric, the Kings of the Vandals\").\n\nDivided into three books, the work is a predominantly contemporary narrative of the cruelties practiced against the orthodox Nicene Christians of Northern Africa by the Arian Vandals. The first book provides an account of the reign of Genseric, from the Vandal invasion of Africa in 429 until the king's death in 477; whilst, the second and third record events of Huneric's reign (477-484) - of which Victor was an eyewitness. Andy Merrills and Richard Miles have argued that with the work Victor 'created a coherent narrative of a Vandal persecution where previously there had been none'. \n\nLittle is known of the author or his circumstances and so historians have put forward deductions based on the internal evidence of his work. It has been argued by John Moorhead that Victor wrote the \"Historia persecutionis\" whilst he was a priest in Carthage and that he 'had access to the archives of the see of Carthage'. The 'text originated in the Church of Carthage' and was published circa 488; however, scholars contend that Victor wrote much of his work in 484 but subsequently added perspectives from after Huneric's death. Danuta Shanzer has argued that the use of medical terminology in Victor's descriptions of torture indicate that he may have had a medical background.It is contested in academic discourse whether or not Victor was actually the bishop of Vita or simply born there.\n\nVictor throws much light on social and religious conditions in Carthage and on the African liturgy of the period, portraying 'the Vandals as being implacably and violently opposed to the true Catholic Faith'. His history contains many documents not otherwise accessible, e.g. the Confession of Faith drawn up for the orthodox bishops by Eugenius of Carthage and presented to Huneric at the conference in 484 of Catholic and Arian bishops. Two documents: a \"Passio beatissimorum martyrum qui apud Carthaginem passi sunt sub impio rege Hunerico (die VI. Non. Julias 484)\" and a \"Notitia Provinciarum et Civitatum Africae\" (List of the Provinces and Cities of Africa), formerly appended to all the manuscripts and now incorporated in the printed editions, are probably not Victor's. The former may be the work of one of his contemporaries. The latter is a list of the Catholic bishops who were summoned to the 484 conference and their Episcopal sees in the Latin provinces of North Africa, arranged according to provinces in this order: Africa Proconsularis, Numidia, Byzacena, Mauretania Caesariensis, Mauretania Sitifensis, Tripolitana, Sardinia.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5432738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5432738", "title": "Vincent van Gogh chronology", "text": "Vincent van Gogh chronology\n\nThis is a chronology of the artist Vincent van Gogh. It is based as far as possible on Van Gogh's correspondence. However, it has only been possible to construct the chronology by drawing on additional sources. Most of his letters are not dated, and it was only in 1973 that a sufficient dating was established by Jan Hulsker, subsequently revised by Ronald Pickvance and marginally corrected by others. Many other relevant dates in the chronology derive from the biographies of his brother Theo, his uncle and godfather Cent, his friends Émile Bernard and Paul Gauguin, and others.\n\nFacts and dates which are undisputed (see Resources), remain unreferenced.\n\n1850 1851 1852 1853 1855 1857 1859<br>\n1861 1862 1864 1866 1867 1868 1869 <br>\n1870 1871 1872 1873 1874 1875 1876 1877 1878 1879 <br>\n1880 1881 1882 1883 1884 1885 1886 1887 1888 1889 <br>\n1890 1891\n\nFootnotes<br>\nReferences<br>\nExternal links\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53270495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53270495", "title": "Xiao Chua", "text": "Xiao Chua\n\nMichael Charleston “Xiao” Briones Chua (born 19 January 1984) is a Chinese-Filipino historian, academic, and television personality, best known for his academic works on Philippine history and his numerous appearances as a commentator on historical topics on Philippine television, including a regular appearance on a news segment called \"Xiao Time\" on public television station People's Television Network. He is currently a professor at De La Salle University.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12338835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12338835", "title": "Zaharije Orfelin", "text": "Zaharije Orfelin\n\nZaharije Orfelin (; 1726 – 19 January 1785) was a Serbian polymath who lived and worked in the Austrian Monarchy and Venice. Described as a Renaissance man, he was an educator, theologist, administrator, poet, engraver, lexicographer, herbalist, historian, translator, editor, publisher, polemicist, polyglot, a prominent oenologist, and traveler.\n\nIn 1757 Orfelin became the secretary to Metropolitan Pavle Nenadović in Sremski Karlovci, the Serbian political and spiritual centre at the time. Metropolitan Pavle wanted to establish Karlovci as an independent educational centre and evade Imperial Austrian control over censorship. In collaboration with Zaharije Orfelin, he founded the \"Copper Publishing House\", where the first modern Orthodox literary works and a considerable number of prints were made. Soon Orfelin began publishing poems, translating books, and creating etchings and engravings, inspired by the work of his contemporaries. To fulfill his ambition to print more books, he moved to Venice where he founded and edited the first Serbian review, \"Slaveno-Serbski Magazin\" (1768). Poem \"Plač Serbii [The Lament of Serbia]\" and biography of Peter I of Russia \"Istorija o žitija i slavnih djelah velikago gosudarja i imperatora Petra Pervago\" are considered his most notable works. His \"Slaveno-Serbski Magazin\" paved the way to the Slavonic-Serbian language. He was the first to publish in the 18th century texts pertaining to Serbian social and cultural history when other European nations had yet to entertain the subjects. During this period Orfelin first began to write \"The Big Serbian Herbalium\", in which he detailed the sanative effects of 500 species of herbs. And, in the \"Experienced Winemaker\" he listed several hundreds of recipes for preparation of herbal wines and other potions. Orfelin was fluent in Russian, Latin, German, and French.\n\"The Lament of Serbia\" is regarded as the most notable among his poetic works of that period. He first published it anonymously in Venice in 1761. In this ode he fiercely pilloried the establishment of the Austrian Empire and the Roman Catholic Church, while also emphasizing the difficult position and unjust treatment of the Serbs under the Imperial protection. Even though the poem bore no signature, the authorship was soon discovered. It is believed that this was a reason for his hurried exit from Karlovci the following year.\n\nAfter leaving Metropolitan Pavle, Orfelin moved to Timisoara, the capital of the Eparchy of Banat, where he secured employment as the chancellor of the Serbian Bishop of Banat, Vikentije Jovanović Vidak. In the years he spent in Timisoara he produced \"The Apostolic Milk\", a catechism dedicated to his infant son in 1763.\n\nIn 1764, Orfelin came to Dimitrios Theodosios's publishing house in Venice, where he spent the next six years before moving back to Karlovci. Theodosios, who began to print Serbian books in Venice in 1758, needed Orfelin to edit and proofread the abundant material being brought to him. Theodosios remained the only outlet for Serbian literature and printed books in Russo-Slavonic until the emergence of Kurtbek's publishing house in Vienna in 1770. Orfelin's editorial work gave a special impetus to the success of this Slavic publishing house. In a span of a few years many important books – \"Catechisis\" by Peter Mohyla and another \"Catechisis\" by Jovan Rajić, \"Srbljak\" (a compedium of old Serbian writings) and \"Short Stories\" by Feofan Prokopovich – were published there. Many of the books published were either translated or edited by Orfelin himself. He also published his own, original works, including \"A Melody for the Spring\" and \"A Historical Poem\" in 1765, \"Latin Alphabet\" in 1767, and \"Latin Grammar\" and \"Slavic Alphabet\" in 1768. A large number of the books printed in Theodosios's shop in Venice were purposefully mislabelled as printed in either Moscow or Sankt Petersburg publishing houses. The reasoning behind it was that Serbs under the Austrian rule had more faith in books published in Russia than in the West. While still in Venice, Orfelin also printed one of the most important copper engravings, \"St. George with the Image of the Monastery of Sendjuradj\" (1767), and the first one that he signed as a member of the Imperial Engraving Academy founded by Austrian Jacob Schmutzer.\n\nOrfelin was one of the most notable representatives of the Serbian Baroque literature (although he worked in the first half of the 18th century, as Baroque trends in Serbian literature emerged in the late 17th century); yet his writings bear certain ideas of European Enlightenment and Rationalism. Through the whole of the 18th century, Serbian literature was mostly under the sway of Russia, or rather of the Russian Orthodox Church. As the Russo-Slavonic language was not readily understood by the Serbian reading public, its form used by the Serbs came under the influence of their living dialect and began soon to approach nearer to Serbian than to Russian. This artificial literary jargon was called Slaveno-Serbski, Slavo-Serbian. (In the 19th century it was eventually superseded by the modern Serbian language owing to the efforts and reforms of Vuk Karadžić). Of the Serbian authors who followed the Russian models it is worth to mention Zaharije Orfelin, Gligorije Trlajić (1766–1811), and Pavle Solarić (1781–1821).\n\nIn Serbian eighteenth-century literature Orfelin's authorship of \"The Life of Peter the Great\" was recorded for the first time in 1786, by Jovan Muškatirović. The illustrations of Peter's Life had been announced by Orfelin in 1772, but he began to produce them in 1774, and the whole enterprise was not completed until 1779, when the authorship of the book had been indubitably established. All this, however, was forgotten and Dimitrije Ruvarac discovered again in 1887, on the basis of the signed illustrated copies of the \"Life of Peter the Great\", that Orfelin was the author of the Russian emperor's biography. This nineteenth-century discovery was accepted by both Serbs and Russians.\n\nIn 1776 Orfelin's name appears in a lexicon of Austrian artists, \"Des Gelehte Osterisch\" by de Luca, where he is listed as both an engraver and a writer, elected as an academician in the newly established Academy of Engraving in Vienna. He is the main character of a novel \"Drugo Telo\" by Milorad Pavić.\n\n\n\n\n"}
