{"id": "31828633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31828633", "title": "ASUI", "text": "ASUI\n\nThe Average Service Unavailability Index (ASUI) is a reliability index commonly used by electric power utilities. It is calculated as\n\nformula_1\n\nwhere formula_2 is the number of customers and formula_3 is the annual outage time (in hours) for location formula_4. ASUI can be represented in relation to SAIDI (where annual SAIDI is given in hours) as\n\nformula_5\n\n"}
{"id": "3628168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3628168", "title": "Abucco", "text": "Abucco\n\nIn Pegu, Burma, the abucco (plural abucci) was a unit of mass used for gold and silver. It was approximately 196.44 grams or 6.316 troy ounces.\n\nOther units of mass were:\n\n"}
{"id": "16658638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16658638", "title": "Active fuel length", "text": "Active fuel length\n\nActive fuel length is the length of the fuel material in a fuel element. This is the Total rod length minus the plenum length and end plugs.\n\nThe fuel element or assembly is arranged in an array of cells or bundles. Each bundle consists of multiple fuel rods or pins. Each fuel rod is composed of several cylindrical fuel pellets of enriched uranium, typically as UO inserted into zirconium-alloy tubes. Each reactor core can be loaded with multiple bundles of these reactor bundles.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21083036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21083036", "title": "Alamosa photovoltaic power plant", "text": "Alamosa photovoltaic power plant\n\nAlamosa photovoltaic power plant, is an 8.22 MWp photovoltaic power plant located in San Luis Valley, Colorado, USA. The power plant was developed by SunEdison, sells all output to Xcel Energy, and was completed in December 2007.\n\nThe plant occupies of land, and provided enough power to supply 1400 homes in 2008. This made it the largest producer of photovoltaic power in the United States in 2008. Colorado Xcel customers pay approximately 2% more for electricity to subsidize renewable energy projects. The plant has received some criticism, saying that the amount of land used is large in comparison to the amount of power generated.\n"}
{"id": "54237225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54237225", "title": "Albany Timber Carnival", "text": "Albany Timber Carnival\n\nThe Albany Timber Carnival was held in Albany, Oregon from 1941 to 2000. The event returned in 2008 and featured competitive logrolling, wood chopping, cross-cut sawing, and hot saw. Chainsaw carving artwork was also displayed.\n\n"}
{"id": "33209199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33209199", "title": "Amir Faghri", "text": "Amir Faghri\n\nAmir Faghri is an American professor and leader in the engineering profession as an educator, scientist, and administrator. He is currently Distinguished Professor of Engineering and Distinguished Dean Emeritus at the University of Connecticut. Faghri served as Head of the Mechanical Engineering Department from 1994–1998, and Dean of the School of Engineering at the University of Connecticut from 1998–2006. Faghri was demoted from the position as Dean of the School of Engineering at the University of Connecticut in 2006 after a court case ruled UConn had the right to do so. Faghri is well known for his contributions to the field of heat transfer. He is an expert in the area of heat pipes and a contributor to thermal-fluids engineering in thermal energy systems.\n\nAmir Faghri received his M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in Mechanical Engineering from the University of California, Berkeley in 1974 and 1976, respectively. He received his B.S. degree from Oregon State University with highest honors in 1973.\n\nFaghri is the author of five books and has published more than 350 archival technical publications, including 245 journal papers. He holds eleven U.S. patents related to heat pipes, energy storage devices, and fuel cells. Faghri serves on the editorial boards of eight scientific journals, including the International Journal of Heat and Mass Transfer, the International Communications in Heat and Mass Transfer, Heat Transfer Engineering, and Frontiers in Heat and Mass Transfer in roles such as executive editor, editor-in-chief, founding editor, and honorary editorial board member. In the 1980s, he unraveled complex thermal problems, including convection in the presence of phase-change materials for thermal energy storage in space. This breakthrough led to a more rational design of cooling systems for NASA and the U.S. Air Force. In the 1990s, he developed high heat flux miniature heat pipes for commercial cooling of laptop computer chips, which have been a principal contributor to the ubiquitous presence of heat pipes for cooling microprocessors in present-day laptop computers.\n\nAmir Faghri started his academic career at Aryamehr University (now Sharif University of Technology) in 1976. He was one of the founding faculty members and administrators who established Isfahan University of Technology in 1977. He served on the faculty of IUT until 1980 as the founding director of its Energy Division (now separated into the Mechanical Engineering and Chemical Engineering Departments). In 1981, he joined the University of California, Berkeley as a visiting professor to teach thermal and energy courses. Following Berkeley, Faghri joined the faculty of Wright State University in 1982 and was promoted to Brage Golding Distinguished Professor in 1989. He developed a nationally recognized heat transfer group and laboratory at WSU, interacting extensively with NASA and the U.S. Air Force.\n\nFaghri joined the University of Connecticut in 1994 and served as Head of the Mechanical Engineering Department from 1994–1998, United Technologies Corporation Chair Professor in Thermal-Fluids Engineering from 2004–2010, and Dean of the School of Engineering from 1998–2006. During his tenure as Dean, he attracted corporate and alumni support to establish 17 endowed professorships, including 11 chair professorships. He increased total enrollment by 106%, increased the number of merit scholarships by approximately 200%, and added three new buildings/facilities. He also doubled the number of undergraduate degree programs from 6 to 12. Faghri was the founder of the Connecticut Global Fuel Cell Center (renamed later as the Center for Clean Energy Engineering) at the University of Connecticut.\n\nAmir Faghri has received many national and international honors and awards, including the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics Thermophysics Award in 1998, the American Society of Mechanical Engineers Heat Transfer Memorial Award in 1998, the ASME James Harry Potter Gold Medal in 2005, and the ASME/AIChE Max Jakob Memorial Award in 2010, which is considered the highest honor in the field of heat transfer. Faghri has been a longtime fellow of the ASME and an elected member of the Connecticut Academy of Science and Engineering. He was also inducted to the Oregon State University Council of Distinguished Engineers in 1999.\n\nFaghri has authored four books:\n\nHis signature work, Heat Pipe Science and Technology, ranks as the most widely cited book on the subject of heat pipes by Google Scholar. His textbook, Transport Phenomena in Multiphase Systems, presented, for the first time, a unified fundamental treatise on all three forms of phase change — boiling and evaporation, melting and solidification, and sublimation and vapor deposition. His latest textbook, Advanced Heat and Mass Transfer, covers the subject of heat and mass transfer with a focus on the recent advances in the field.\n\n"}
{"id": "897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=897", "title": "Arsenic", "text": "Arsenic\n\nArsenic is a chemical element with symbol As and atomic number 33. Arsenic occurs in many minerals, usually in combination with sulfur and metals, but also as a pure elemental crystal. Arsenic is a metalloid. It has various allotropes, but only the gray form, which has a metallic appearance, is important to industry.\n\nThe primary use of arsenic is in alloys of lead (for example, in car batteries and ammunition). Arsenic is a common n-type dopant in semiconductor electronic devices, and the optoelectronic compound gallium arsenide is the second most commonly used semiconductor after doped silicon. Arsenic and its compounds, especially the trioxide, are used in the production of pesticides, treated wood products, herbicides, and insecticides. These applications are declining due to the toxicity of arsenic and its compounds.\n\nA few species of bacteria are able to use arsenic compounds as respiratory metabolites. Trace quantities of arsenic are an essential dietary element in rats, hamsters, goats, chickens, and presumably other species. A role in human metabolism is not known. However, arsenic poisoning occurs in multicellular life if quantities are larger than needed. Arsenic contamination of groundwater is a problem that affects millions of people across the world.\n\nThe United States' Environmental Protection Agency states that all forms of arsenic are a serious risk to human health. The United States' Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry ranked arsenic as number 1 in its 2001 Priority List of Hazardous Substances at Superfund sites. Arsenic is classified as a Group-A carcinogen.\n\nThe three most common arsenic allotropes are gray, yellow, and black arsenic, with gray being the most common. Gray arsenic (α-As, space group Rm No. 166) adopts a double-layered structure consisting of many interlocked, ruffled, six-membered rings. Because of weak bonding between the layers, gray arsenic is brittle and has a relatively low Mohs hardness of 3.5. Nearest and next-nearest neighbors form a distorted octahedral complex, with the three atoms in the same double-layer being slightly closer than the three atoms in the next. This relatively close packing leads to a high density of 5.73 g/cm. Gray arsenic is a semimetal, but becomes a semiconductor with a bandgap of 1.2–1.4 eV if amorphized. Gray arsenic is also the most stable form. Yellow arsenic is soft and waxy, and somewhat similar to tetraphosphorus (). Both have four atoms arranged in a tetrahedral structure in which each atom is bound to each of the other three atoms by a single bond. This unstable allotrope, being molecular, is the most volatile, least dense, and most toxic. Solid yellow arsenic is produced by rapid cooling of arsenic vapor, . It is rapidly transformed into gray arsenic by light. The yellow form has a density of 1.97 g/cm. Black arsenic is similar in structure to black phosphorus.\nBlack arsenic can also be formed by cooling vapor at around 100–220 °C. It is glassy and brittle. It is also a poor electrical conductor.\n\nArsenic occurs in nature as a monoisotopic element, composed of one stable isotope, As. As of 2003, at least 33 radioisotopes have also been synthesized, ranging in atomic mass from 60 to 92. The most stable of these is As with a half-life of 80.30 days. All other isotopes have half-lives of under one day, with the exception of As (\"t\"=65.30 hours), As (\"t\"=26.0 hours), As (\"t\"=17.77 days), As (\"t\"=1.0942 days), and As (\"t\"=38.83 hours). Isotopes that are lighter than the stable As tend to decay by β decay, and those that are heavier tend to decay by β decay, with some exceptions.\n\nAt least 10 nuclear isomers have been described, ranging in atomic mass from 66 to 84. The most stable of arsenic's isomers is As with a half-life of 111 seconds.\n\nArsenic has a similar electronegativity and ionization energies to its lighter congener phosphorus and as such readily forms covalent molecules with most of the nonmetals. Though stable in dry air, arsenic forms a golden-bronze tarnish upon exposure to humidity which eventually becomes a black surface layer. When heated in air, arsenic oxidizes to arsenic trioxide; the fumes from this reaction have an odor resembling garlic. This odor can be detected on striking arsenide minerals such as arsenopyrite with a hammer. It burns in oxygen to form arsenic trioxide and arsenic pentoxide, which have the same structure as the more well-known phosphorus compounds, and in fluorine to give arsenic pentafluoride. Arsenic (and some arsenic compounds) sublimes upon heating at atmospheric pressure, converting directly to a gaseous form without an intervening liquid state at . The triple point is 3.63 MPa and . Arsenic makes arsenic acid with concentrated nitric acid, arsenous acid with dilute nitric acid, and arsenic trioxide with concentrated sulfuric acid; however, it does not react with water, alkalis, or non-oxidising acids. Arsenic reacts with metals to form arsenides, though these are not ionic compounds containing the As ion as the formation of such an anion would be highly endothermic and even the group 1 arsenides have properties of intermetallic compounds. Like germanium, selenium, and bromine, which like arsenic succeed the 3d transition series, arsenic is much less stable in the group oxidation state of +5 than its vertical neighbors phosphorus and antimony, and hence arsenic pentoxide and arsenic acid are potent oxidizers.\n\nCompounds of arsenic resemble in some respects those of phosphorus which occupies the same group (column) of the periodic table. The most common oxidation states for arsenic are: −3 in the arsenides, which are alloy-like intermetallic compounds, +3 in the arsenites, and +5 in the arsenates and most organoarsenic compounds. Arsenic also bonds readily to itself as seen in the square As ions in the mineral skutterudite. In the +3 oxidation state, arsenic is typically pyramidal owing to the influence of the lone pair of electrons.\n\nOne of the simplest arsenic compound is the trihydride, the highly toxic, flammable, pyrophoric arsine (AsH). This compound is generally regarded as stable, since at room temperature it decomposes only slowly. At temperatures of 250–300 °C decomposition to arsenic and hydrogen is rapid. Several factors, such as humidity, presence of light and certain catalysts (namely aluminium) facilitate the rate of decomposition. It oxidises readily in air to form arsenic trioxide and water, and analogous reactions take place with sulfur and selenium instead of oxygen.\n\nArsenic forms colorless, odorless, crystalline oxides AsO (\"white arsenic\") and AsO which are hygroscopic and readily soluble in water to form acidic solutions. Arsenic(V) acid is a weak acid and the salts are called arsenates, the most common arsenic contamination of groundwater, and a problem that affects many people. Synthetic arsenates include Scheele's Green (cupric hydrogen arsenate, acidic copper arsenate), calcium arsenate, and lead hydrogen arsenate. These three have been used as agricultural insecticides and poisons.\n\nThe protonation steps between the arsenate and arsenic acid are similar to those between phosphate and phosphoric acid. Unlike phosphorous acid, arsenous acid is genuinely tribasic, with the formula As(OH).\n\nA broad variety of sulfur compounds of arsenic are known. Orpiment (AsS) and realgar (AsS) are somewhat abundant and were formerly used as painting pigments. In AsS, arsenic has a formal oxidation state of +2 in AsS which features As-As bonds so that the total covalency of As is still 3. Both orpiment and realgar, as well as AsS, have selenium analogs; the analogous AsTe is known as the mineral kalgoorlieite, and the anion AsTe is known as a ligand in cobalt complexes.\n\nAll trihalides of arsenic(III) are well known except the astatide, which is unknown. Arsenic pentafluoride (AsF) is the only important pentahalide, reflecting the lower stability of the +5 oxidation state; even so, it is a very strong fluorinating and oxidizing agent. (The pentachloride is stable only below −50 °C, at which temperature it decomposes to the trichloride, releasing chlorine gas.)\n\nArsenic is used as the group 5 element in the III-V semiconductors gallium arsenide, indium arsenide, and aluminium arsenide. The valence electron count of GaAs is the same as a pair of Si atoms, but the band structure is completely different which results in distinct bulk properties. Other arsenic alloys include the II-V semiconductor cadmium arsenide.\n\nA large variety of organoarsenic compounds are known. Several were developed as chemical warfare agents during World War I, including vesicants such as lewisite and vomiting agents such as adamsite. Cacodylic acid, which is of historic and practical interest, arises from the methylation of arsenic trioxide, a reaction that has no analogy in phosphorus chemistry. Indeed, cacodyl was the first organometallic compound known (even though arsenic is not a true metal) and was named from the Greek \"κακωδἰα\" \"stink\" for its offensive odor; like all arsenic compounds, it is very poisonous.\n\nArsenic comprises about 1.5 ppm (0.00015%) of the Earth's crust, and is the 53rd most abundant element. Typical background concentrations of arsenic do not exceed 3 ng/m in the atmosphere; 100 mg/kg in soil; and 10 μg/L in freshwater.\n\nMinerals with the formula MAsS and MAs (M = Fe, Ni, Co) are the dominant commercial sources of arsenic, together with realgar (an arsenic sulfide mineral) and native (elemental) arsenic. An illustrative mineral is arsenopyrite (FeAsS), which is structurally related to iron pyrite. Many minor As-containing minerals are known. Arsenic also occurs in various organic forms in the environment.\n\nIn 2014, China was the top producer of white arsenic with almost 70% world share, followed by Morocco, Russia, and Belgium, according to the British Geological Survey and the United States Geological Survey. Most arsenic refinement operations in the US and Europe have closed over environmental concerns. Arsenic is found of the smelter dust from copper, gold, and lead smelters, and is recovered primarily from copper refinement dust.\n\nOn roasting arsenopyrite in air, arsenic sublimes as arsenic(III) oxide leaving iron oxides, while roasting without air results in the production of gray arsenic. Further purification from sulfur and other chalcogens is achieved by sublimation in vacuum, in a hydrogen atmosphere, or by distillation from molten lead-arsenic mixture.\n\nThe word \"arsenic\" has its origin in the Syriac word \"(al) zarniqa\", from the Persian word \"zarnikh\", meaning \"yellow\" (literally \"gold-colored\") and hence \"(yellow) orpiment\". It was adopted into Greek as \"arsenikon\" (), a form that is folk etymology, being the neuter form of the Greek word \"arsenikos\" (), meaning \"male\", \"virile\". The Greek word was adopted in Latin as \"arsenicum\", which in French became \"arsenic\", from which the English word arsenic is taken. Arsenic sulfides (orpiment, realgar) and oxides have been known and used since ancient times. Zosimos (circa 300 AD) describes roasting \"sandarach\" (realgar) to obtain \"cloud of arsenic\" (arsenic trioxide), which he then reduces to gray arsenic. As the symptoms of arsenic poisoning are not very specific, it was frequently used for murder until the advent of the Marsh test, a sensitive chemical test for its presence. (Another less sensitive but more general test is the Reinsch test.) Owing to its use by the ruling class to murder one another and its potency and discreetness, arsenic has been called the \"poison of kings\" and the \"king of poisons\".\n\nDuring the Bronze Age, arsenic was often included in bronze, which made the alloy harder (so-called \"arsenical bronze\").\nAlbertus Magnus (Albert the Great, 1193–1280) is believed to have been the first to isolate the element from a compound in 1250, by heating soap together with arsenic trisulfide. In 1649, Johann Schröder published two ways of preparing arsenic. Crystals of elemental (native) arsenic are found in nature, although rare.\n\nCadet's fuming liquid (impure cacodyl), often claimed as the first synthetic organometallic compound, was synthesized in 1760 by Louis Claude Cadet de Gassicourt by the reaction of potassium acetate with arsenic trioxide.\n\nIn the Victorian era, \"arsenic\" (\"white arsenic\" or arsenic trioxide) was mixed with vinegar and chalk and eaten by women to improve the complexion of their faces, making their skin paler to show they did not work in the fields. Arsenic was also rubbed into the faces and arms of women to \"improve their complexion\". The accidental use of arsenic in the adulteration of foodstuffs led to the Bradford sweet poisoning in 1858, which resulted in around 20 deaths.\n\nTwo arsenic pigments have been widely used since their discovery – Paris Green and Scheele's Green. After the toxicity of arsenic became widely known, these chemicals were used less often as pigments and more often as insecticides. In the 1860s, an arsenic byproduct of dye production, London Purple was widely used. This was a solid mixture of arsenic trioxide, aniline, lime, and ferrous oxide, insoluble in water and very toxic by inhalation or ingestion But it was later replaced with Paris Green, another arsenic-based dye. With better understanding of the toxicology mechanism, two other compounds were used starting in the 1890s. Arsenite of lime and arsenate of lead were used widely as insecticides until the discovery of DDT in 1942.\n\nThe toxicity of arsenic to insects, bacteria, and fungi led to its use as a wood preservative. In the 1930s, a process of treating wood with chromated copper arsenate (also known as CCA or Tanalith) was invented, and for decades, this treatment was the most extensive industrial use of arsenic. An increased appreciation of the toxicity of arsenic led to a ban of CCA in consumer products in 2004, initiated by the European Union and United States. However, CCA remains in heavy use in other countries (such as on Malaysian rubber plantations).\n\nArsenic was also used in various agricultural insecticides and poisons. For example, lead hydrogen arsenate was a common insecticide on fruit trees, but contact with the compound sometimes resulted in brain damage among those working the sprayers. In the second half of the 20th century, monosodium methyl arsenate (MSMA) and disodium methyl arsenate (DSMA) – less toxic organic forms of arsenic – replaced lead arsenate in agriculture. These organic arsenicals were in turn phased out by 2013 in all agricultural activities except cotton farming.\n\nThe biogeochemistry of arsenic is complex and includes various adsorption and desorption processes. The toxicity of arsenic is connected to its solubility and is affected by pH. Arsenite () is more soluble than arsenate () and is more toxic; however, at a lower pH, arsenate becomes more mobile and toxic. It was found that addition of sulfur, phosphorus, and iron oxides to high-arsenite soils greatly reduces arsenic phytotoxicity.\n\nArsenic is used as a feed additive in poultry and swine production, in particular in the U.S. to increase weight gain, improve feed efficiency, and to prevent disease. An example is roxarsone, which had been used as a broiler starter by about 70% of U.S. broiler growers. The Poison-Free Poultry Act of 2009 proposed to ban the use of roxarsone in industrial swine and poultry production. Alpharma, a subsidiary of Pfizer Inc., which produces roxarsone, voluntarily suspended sales of the drug in response to studies showing elevated levels of inorganic arsenic, a carcinogen, in treated chickens. A successor to Alpharma, Zoetis, continues to sell nitarsone, primarily for use in turkeys.\n\nArsenic is intentionally added to the feed of chickens raised for human consumption. Organic arsenic compounds are less toxic than pure arsenic, and promote the growth of chickens. Under some conditions, the arsenic in chicken feed is converted to the toxic inorganic form.\n\nA 2006 study of the remains of the Australian racehorse, Phar Lap, determined that the 1932 death of the famous champion was caused by a massive overdose of arsenic. Sydney veterinarian Percy Sykes stated, \"In those days, arsenic was quite a common tonic, usually given in the form of a solution (Fowler's Solution) ... It was so common that I'd reckon 90 per cent of the horses had arsenic in their system.\"\n\nDuring the 18th, 19th, and 20th centuries, a number of arsenic compounds were used as medicines, including arsphenamine (by Paul Ehrlich) and arsenic trioxide (by Thomas Fowler). Arsphenamine, as well as neosalvarsan, was indicated for syphilis and trypanosomiasis, but has been superseded by modern antibiotics.\n\nArsenic trioxide has been used in a variety of ways over the past 500 years, most commonly in the treatment of cancer, but in medications as diverse as Fowler's solution in psoriasis. The US Food and Drug Administration in the year 2000 approved this compound for the treatment of patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia that is resistant to all-trans retinoic acid.\n\nRecently, researchers have been locating tumors using arsenic-74 (a positron emitter). This isotope produces clearer PET scan images than the previous radioactive agent, iodine-124, because the body tends to transport iodine to the thyroid gland producing signal noise.\n\nIn subtoxic doses, soluble arsenic compounds act as stimulants, and were once popular in small doses as medicine by people in the mid-18th to 19th centuries.\n\nThe main use of arsenic is in alloying with lead. Lead components in car batteries are strengthened by the presence of a very small percentage of arsenic. Dezincification of brass (a copper-zinc alloy) is greatly reduced by the addition of arsenic. \"Phosphorus Deoxidized Arsenical Copper\" with an arsenic content of 0.3% has an increased corrosion stability in certain environments. Gallium arsenide is an important semiconductor material, used in integrated circuits. Circuits made from GaAs are much faster (but also much more expensive) than those made from silicon. Unlike silicon, GaAs has a direct bandgap, and can be used in laser diodes and LEDs to convert electrical energy directly into light.\n\nAfter World War I, the United States built a stockpile of 20,000 tons of weaponized lewisite (ClCH=CHAsCl), an organoarsenic vesicant (blister agent) and lung irritant. The stockpile was neutralized with bleach and dumped into the Gulf of Mexico in the 1950s. During the Vietnam War, the United States used Agent Blue, a mixture of sodium cacodylate and its acid form, as one of the rainbow herbicides to deprive North Vietnamese soldiers of foliage cover and rice.\n\n\nSome species of bacteria obtain their energy by oxidizing various fuels while reducing arsenate to arsenite. Under oxidative environmental conditions some bacteria oxidize arsenite to arsenate as fuel for their metabolism. The enzymes involved are known as arsenate reductases (Arr).\n\nIn 2000, bacteria were discovered that employ a version of photosynthesis in the absence of oxygen with arsenites as electron donors, producing arsenates (just as ordinary photosynthesis uses water as electron donor, producing molecular oxygen). This may be classified as chemolithoautotrophic arsenite oxidation, for which oxygen is used as the terminal electron acceptor, arsenite is the electron donor, and carbon dioxide is the carbon source. Researchers conjecture that, over the course of history, these photosynthesizing organisms produced the arsenates that allowed the arsenate-reducing bacteria to thrive. One strain PHS-1 has been isolated and is related to the gammaproteobacterium \"Ectothiorhodospira shaposhnikovii\". The mechanism is unknown, but an encoded Arr enzyme may function in reverse to its known homologues.\n\nAlthough the arsenate and phosphate anions are similar structurally, no evidence exists for the replacement of phosphate in ATP or nucleic acids by arsenic.\n\nSome evidence indicates that arsenic is an essential trace mineral in birds (chickens), and in mammals (rats, hamsters, and goats). However, the biological function is not known.\n\nArsenic has been linked to epigenetic changes, heritable changes in gene expression that occur without changes in DNA sequence. These include DNA methylation, histone modification, and RNA interference. Toxic levels of arsenic cause significant DNA hypermethylation of tumor suppressor genes p16 and p53, thus increasing risk of carcinogenesis. These epigenetic events have been studied \"in vitro\" using human kidney cells and \"in vivo\" using rat liver cells and peripheral blood leukocytes in humans. Inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS) is used to detect precise levels of intracellular arsenic and other arsenic bases involved in epigenetic modification of DNA. Studies investigating arsenic as an epigenetic factor can be used to develop precise biomarkers of exposure and susceptibility.\n\nThe Chinese brake fern (\"Pteris vittata\") hyperaccumulates arsenic from the soil into its leaves and has a proposed use in phytoremediation.\n\nInorganic arsenic and its compounds, upon entering the food chain, are progressively metabolized through a process of methylation. For example, the mold \"Scopulariopsis brevicaulis\" produces significant amounts of trimethylarsine if inorganic arsenic is present. The organic compound arsenobetaine is found in some marine foods such as fish and algae, and also in mushrooms in larger concentrations. The average person's intake is about 10–50 µg/day. Values about 1000 µg are not unusual following consumption of fish or mushrooms, but there is little danger in eating fish because this arsenic compound is nearly non-toxic.\n\nNaturally occurring sources of human exposure include volcanic ash, weathering of minerals and ores, and mineralized groundwater. Arsenic is also found in food, water, soil, and air. Arsenic is absorbed by all plants, but is more concentrated in leafy vegetables, rice, apple and grape juice, and seafood. An additional route of exposure is inhalation of atmospheric gases and dusts.\n\nExtensive arsenic contamination of groundwater has led to widespread arsenic poisoning in Bangladesh and neighboring countries. It is estimated that approximately 57 million people in the Bengal basin are drinking groundwater with arsenic concentrations elevated above the World Health Organization's standard of 10 parts per billion (ppb). However, a study of cancer rates in Taiwan suggested that significant increases in cancer mortality appear only at levels above 150 ppb. The arsenic in the groundwater is of natural origin, and is released from the sediment into the groundwater, caused by the anoxic conditions of the subsurface. This groundwater was used after local and western NGOs and the Bangladeshi government undertook a massive shallow tube well drinking-water program in the late twentieth century. This program was designed to prevent drinking of bacteria-contaminated surface waters, but failed to test for arsenic in the groundwater. Many other countries and districts in Southeast Asia, such as Vietnam and Cambodia, have geological environments that produce groundwater with a high arsenic content. was reported in Nakhon Si Thammarat, Thailand in 1987, and the Chao Phraya River probably contains high levels of naturally occurring dissolved arsenic without being a public health problem because much of the public uses bottled water. In Pakistan, more than 60 million people are exposed to arsenic polluted drinking water indicated by a recent report of Science. Podgorski’s team investigated more than 1200 samples and more than 66% samples exceeded the WHO minimum contamination level.\n\nIn the United States, arsenic is most commonly found in the ground waters of the southwest. Parts of New England, Michigan, Wisconsin, Minnesota and the Dakotas are also known to have significant concentrations of arsenic in ground water. Increased levels of skin cancer have been associated with arsenic exposure in Wisconsin, even at levels below the 10 part per billion drinking water standard. According to a recent film funded by the US Superfund, millions of private wells have unknown arsenic levels, and in some areas of the US, more than 20% of the wells may contain levels that exceed established limits.\n\nLow-level exposure to arsenic at concentrations of 100 parts per billion (i.e., above the 10 parts per billion drinking water standard) compromises the initial immune response to H1N1 or swine flu infection according to NIEHS-supported scientists. The study, conducted in laboratory mice, suggests that people exposed to arsenic in their drinking water may be at increased risk for more serious illness or death from the virus.\n\nSome Canadians are drinking water that contains inorganic arsenic. Private-dug–well waters are most at risk for containing inorganic arsenic. Preliminary well water analysis typically does not test for arsenic. Researchers at the Geological Survey of Canada have modeled relative variation in natural arsenic hazard potential for the province of New Brunswick. This study has important implications for potable water and health concerns relating to inorganic arsenic.\n\nEpidemiological evidence from Chile shows a dose-dependent connection between chronic arsenic exposure and various forms of cancer, in particular when other risk factors, such as cigarette smoking, are present. These effects have been demonstrated at contaminations less than 50 ppb. Arsenic is itself a constituent of tobacco smoke.\n\nAnalyzing multiple epidemiological studies on inorganic arsenic exposure suggests a small but measurable increase in risk for bladder cancer at 10 ppb. According to Peter Ravenscroft of the Department of Geography at the University of Cambridge, roughly 80 million people worldwide consume between 10 and 50 ppb arsenic in their drinking water. If they all consumed exactly 10 ppb arsenic in their drinking water, the previously cited multiple epidemiological study analysis would predict an additional 2,000 cases of bladder cancer alone. This represents a clear underestimate of the overall impact, since it does not include lung or skin cancer, and explicitly underestimates the exposure. Those exposed to levels of arsenic above the current WHO standard should weigh the costs and benefits of arsenic remediation.\nEarly (1973) evaluations of the processes for removing dissolved arsenic from drinking water demonstrated the efficacy of co-precipitation with either iron or aluminum oxides. In particular, iron as a coagulant was found to remove arsenic with an efficacy exceeding 90%. Several adsorptive media systems have been approved for use at point-of-service in a study funded by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (US EPA) and the National Science Foundation (NSF). A team of European and Indian scientists and engineers have set up six arsenic treatment plants in West Bengal based on in-situ remediation method (SAR Technology). This technology does not use any chemicals and arsenic is left in an insoluble form (+5 state) in the subterranean zone by recharging aerated water into the aquifer and developing an oxidation zone that supports arsenic oxidizing micro-organisms. This process does not produce any waste stream or sludge and is relatively cheap.\n\nAnother effective and inexpensive method to avoid arsenic contamination is to sink wells 500 feet or deeper to reach purer waters. A recent 2011 study funded by the US National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences' Superfund Research Program shows that deep sediments can remove arsenic and take it out of circulation. In this process, called \"adsorption\", arsenic sticks to the surfaces of deep sediment particles and is naturally removed from the ground water.\n\nMagnetic separations of arsenic at very low magnetic field gradients with high-surface-area and monodisperse magnetite (FeO) nanocrystals have been demonstrated in point-of-use water purification. Using the high specific surface area of FeO nanocrystals, the mass of waste associated with arsenic removal from water has been dramatically reduced.\n\nEpidemiological studies have suggested a correlation between chronic consumption of drinking water contaminated with arsenic and the incidence of all leading causes of mortality. The literature indicates that arsenic exposure is causative in the pathogenesis of diabetes.\n\nChaff-based filters have recently been shown to reduce the arsenic content of water to 3 µg/L. This may find applications in areas where the potable water is extracted from underground aquifers.\n\nFor several centuries, the people of San Pedro de Atacama in Chile have been drinking water that is contaminated with arsenic, and some evidence suggests they have developed some immunity.\n\nAround one-third of the world’s population drinks water from groundwater resources. Of this, about 10 percent, approximately 300 million people, obtains water from groundwater resources that are contaminated with unhealthy levels of arsenic or fluoride. These trace elements derive mainly from minerals.\n\nArsenic is unique among the trace metalloids and oxyanion-forming trace metals (e.g. As, Se, Sb, Mo, V, Cr, U, Re). It is sensitive to mobilization at pH values typical of natural waters (pH 6.5–8.5) under both oxidizing and reducing conditions. Arsenic can occur in the environment in several oxidation states (−3, 0, +3 and +5), but in natural waters it is mostly found in inorganic forms as oxyanions of trivalent arsenite [As(III)] or pentavalent arsenate [As(V)]. Organic forms of arsenic are produced by biological activity, mostly in surface waters, but are rarely quantitatively important. Organic arsenic compounds may, however, occur where waters are significantly impacted by industrial pollution.\n\nArsenic may be solubilized by various processes. When pH is high, arsenic may be released from surface binding sites that lose their positive charge. When water level drops and sulfide minerals are exposed to air, arsenic trapped in sulfide minerals can be released into water. When organic carbon is present in water, bacteria are fed by directly reducing As(V) to As(III) or by reducing the element at the binding site, releasing inorganic arsenic.\n\nThe aquatic transformations of arsenic are affected by pH, reduction-oxidation potential, organic matter concentration and the concentrations and forms of other elements, especially iron and manganese. The main factors are pH and the redox potential. Generally, the main forms of arsenic under oxic conditions are HAsO, HAsO, HAsO, and AsO at pH 2, 2–7, 7–11 and 11, respectively. Under reducing conditions, HAsO is predominant at pH 2–9.\n\nOxidation and reduction affects the migration of arsenic in subsurface environments. Arsenite is the most stable soluble form of arsenic in reducing environments and arsenate, which is less mobile than arsenite, is dominant in oxidizing environments at neutral pH. Therefore, arsenic may be more mobile under reducing conditions. The reducing environment is also rich in organic matter which may enhance the solubility of arsenic compounds. As a result, the adsorption of arsenic is reduced and dissolved arsenic accumulates in groundwater. That is why the arsenic content is higher in reducing environments than in oxidizing environments.\n\nThe presence of sulfur is another factor that affects the transformation of arsenic in natural water. Arsenic can precipitate when metal sulfides form. In this way, arsenic is removed from the water and its mobility decreases. When oxygen is present, bacteria oxidize reduced sulfur to generate energy, potentially releasing bound arsenic.\n\nRedox reactions involving Fe also appear to be essential factors in the fate of arsenic in aquatic systems. The reduction of iron oxyhydroxides plays a key role in the release of arsenic to water. So arsenic can be enriched in water with elevated Fe concentrations. Under oxidizing conditions, arsenic can be mobilized from pyrite or iron oxides especially at elevated pH. Under reducing conditions, arsenic can be mobilized by reductive desorption or dissolution when associated with iron oxides. The reductive desorption occurs under two circumstances. One is when arsenate is reduced to arsenite which adsorbs to iron oxides less strongly. The other results from a change in the charge on the mineral surface which leads to the desorption of bound arsenic.\n\nSome species of bacteria catalyze redox transformations of arsenic. Dissimilatory arsenate-respiring prokaryotes (DARP) speed up the reduction of As(V) to As(III). DARP use As(V) as the electron acceptor of anaerobic respiration and obtain energy to survive. Other organic and inorganic substances can be oxidized in this process. Chemoautotrophic arsenite oxidizers (CAO) and heterotrophic arsenite oxidizers (HAO) convert As(III) into As(V). CAO combine the oxidation of As(III) with the reduction of oxygen or nitrate. They use obtained energy to fix produce organic carbon from CO. HAO cannot obtain energy from As(III) oxidation. This process may be an arsenic detoxification mechanism for the bacteria.\n\nEquilibrium thermodynamic calculations predict that As(V) concentrations should be greater than As(III) concentrations in all but strongly reducing conditions, i.e. where SO reduction is occurring. However, abiotic redox reactions of arsenic are slow. Oxidation of As(III) by dissolved O is a particularly slow reaction. For example, Johnson and Pilson (1975) gave half-lives for the oxygenation of As(III) in seawater ranging from several months to a year. In other studies, As(V)/As(III) ratios were stable over periods of days or weeks during water sampling when no particular care was taken to prevent oxidation, again suggesting relatively slow oxidation rates. Cherry found from experimental studies that the As(V)/As(III) ratios were stable in anoxic solutions for up to 3 weeks but that gradual changes occurred over longer timescales. Sterile water samples have been observed to be less susceptible to speciation changes than non-sterile samples. Oremland found that the reduction of As(V) to As(III) in Mono Lake was rapidly catalyzed by bacteria with rate constants ranging from 0.02 to 0.3 day.\n\nAs of 2002, US-based industries consumed 19,600 metric tons of arsenic. Ninety percent of this was used for treatment of wood with chromated copper arsenate (CCA). In 2007, 50% of the 5,280 metric tons of consumption was still used for this purpose. In the United States, the voluntary phasing-out of arsenic in production of consumer products and residential and general consumer construction products began on 31 December 2003, and alternative chemicals are now used, such as Alkaline Copper Quaternary, borates, copper azole, cyproconazole, and propiconazole.\n\nAlthough discontinued, this application is also one of the most concern to the general public. The vast majority of older pressure-treated wood was treated with CCA. CCA lumber is still in widespread use in many countries, and was heavily used during the latter half of the 20th century as a structural and outdoor building material. Although the use of CCA lumber was banned in many areas after studies showed that arsenic could leach out of the wood into the surrounding soil (from playground equipment, for instance), a risk is also presented by the burning of older CCA timber. The direct or indirect ingestion of wood ash from burnt CCA lumber has caused fatalities in animals and serious poisonings in humans; the lethal human dose is approximately 20 grams of ash. Scrap CCA lumber from construction and demolition sites may be inadvertently used in commercial and domestic fires. Protocols for safe disposal of CCA lumber are not consistent throughout the world. Widespread landfill disposal of such timber raises some concern, but other studies have shown no arsenic contamination in the groundwater.\n\nOne tool that maps the location (and other information) of arsenic releases in the United State is TOXMAP. TOXMAP is a Geographic Information System (GIS) from the Division of Specialized Information Services of the United States National Library of Medicine (NLM) funded by the US Federal Government. With marked-up maps of the United States, TOXMAP enables users to visually explore data from the United States Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA) Toxics Release Inventory and Superfund Basic Research Programs. TOXMAP's chemical and environmental health information is taken from NLM's Toxicology Data Network (TOXNET), PubMed, and from other authoritative sources.\n\nPhysical, chemical, and biological methods have been used to remediate arsenic contaminated water. Bioremediation is said to be cost effective and environmentally friendly Bioremediation of ground water contaminated with arsenic aims to convert arsenite, the toxic form of arsenic to humans, to arsenate. Arsenate (+5 oxidation state) is the dominant form of arsenic in surface water, while arsenite (+3 oxidation state) is the dominant form in hypoxic to anoxic environments. Arsenite is more soluble and mobile than arsenate. Many species of bacteria can transform arsenite to arsenate in anoxic conditions by using arsenite as an electron donor. This is a useful method in ground water remediation. Another bioremediation strategy is to use plants that accumulate arsenic in their tissues via phytoremediation but the disposal of contaminated plant material needs to be considered.\n\nBioremediation requires careful evaluation and design in accordance with existing conditions. Some sites may require the addition of an electron acceptor while others require microbe supplementation (bioaugmentation). Regardless of the method used, only constant monitoring can prevent future contamination.\n\nArsenic and many of its compounds are especially potent poisons.\n\nElemental arsenic and arsenic compounds are classified as \"toxic\" and \"dangerous for the environment\" in the European Union under directive 67/548/EEC.\n\nThe International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) recognizes arsenic and inorganic arsenic compounds as group 1 carcinogens, and the EU lists arsenic trioxide, arsenic pentoxide, and arsenate salts as category 1 carcinogens.\n\nArsenic is known to cause when present in drinking water, \"the most common species being arsenate [; As(V)] and arsenite [HAsO; As(III)]\".\n\nIn the United States since 2006, the maximum concentration in drinking water allowed by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is 10 ppb and the FDA set the same standard in 2005 for bottled water. The Department of Environmental Protection for New Jersey set a drinking water limit of 5 ppb in 2006. The IDLH (immediately dangerous to life and health) value for arsenic metal and inorganic arsenic compounds is 5 mg/m (5 ppb). The Occupational Safety and Health Administration has set the permissible exposure limit (PEL) to a time-weighted average (TWA) of 0.01 mg/m (0.01 ppb), and the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) has set the recommended exposure limit (REL) to a 15-minute constant exposure of 0.002 mg/m (0.002 ppb). The PEL for organic arsenic compounds is a TWA of 0.5 mg/m. (0.5 ppb).\n\nIn 2008, based on its ongoing testing of a wide variety of American foods for toxic chemicals, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration set the \"level of concern\" for inorganic arsenic apple and pear juices at 23 ppb, based on non-carcinogenic effects, and began blocking importation of products in excess of this level; it also required recalls for non-conforming domestic products. In 2011, the national \"Dr. Oz\" television show broadcast a program highlighting tests performed by an independent lab hired by the producers. Though the methodology was disputed (it did not distinguish between organic and inorganic arsenic) the tests showed levels of arsenic up to 36 ppb. In response, FDA tested the worst brand from the \"Dr.\" \"Oz\" show and found much lower levels. Ongoing testing found 95% of the apple juice samples were below the level of concern. Later testing by Consumer Reports showed inorganic arsenic at levels slightly above 10 ppb, and the organization urged parents to reduce consumption. In July 2013, on consideration of consumption by children, chronic exposure, and carcinogenic effect, the FDA established an \"action level\" of 10 ppb for apple juice, the same as the drinking water standard.\n\nConcern about arsenic in rice in Bangladesh was raised in 2002, but at the time only Australia had a legal limit for food (one milligram per kilogram). Concern was raised about people who were eating U.S. rice exceeding WHO standards for personal arsenic intake in 2005. In 2011, the People's Republic of China set a food standard of 150 ppb for arsenic.\n\nIn the United States in 2012, testing by separate groups of researchers at the Children's Environmental Health and Disease Prevention Research Center at Dartmouth College (early in the year, focusing on urinary levels in children) and Consumer Reports (in November) found levels of arsenic in rice that resulted in calls for the FDA to set limits. The FDA released some testing results in September 2012, and as of July 2013, is still collecting data in support of a new potential regulation. It has not recommended any changes in consumer behavior.\n\nConsumer Reports recommended: \nA 2014 World Health Organization advisory conference was scheduled to consider limits of 200–300 ppb for rice.\n\nArsenic is bioaccumulative in many organisms, marine species in particular, but it does not appear to biomagnify significantly in food webs. In polluted areas, plant growth may be affected by root uptake of arsenate, which is a phosphate analog and therefore readily transported in plant tissues and cells. In polluted areas, uptake of the more toxic arsenite ion (found more particularly in reducing conditions) is likely in poorly-drained soils.\n\nArsenic's toxicity comes from the affinity of arsenic(III) oxides for thiols. Thiols, in the form of cysteine residues and cofactors such as lipoic acid and coenzyme A, are situated at the active sites of many important enzymes.\n\nArsenic disrupts ATP production through several mechanisms. At the level of the citric acid cycle, arsenic inhibits lipoic acid, which is a cofactor for pyruvate dehydrogenase. By competing with phosphate, arsenate uncouples oxidative phosphorylation, thus inhibiting energy-linked reduction of NAD+, mitochondrial respiration and ATP synthesis. Hydrogen peroxide production is also increased, which, it is speculated, has potential to form reactive oxygen species and oxidative stress. These metabolic interferences lead to death from multi-system organ failure. The organ failure is presumed to be from necrotic cell death, not apoptosis, since energy reserves have been too depleted for apoptosis to occur.\nAlthough arsenic causes toxicity it can also play a protective role.\n\nOccupational exposure and arsenic poisoning may occur in persons working in industries involving the use of inorganic arsenic and its compounds, such as wood preservation, glass production, nonferrous metal alloys, and electronic semiconductor manufacturing. Inorganic arsenic is also found in coke oven emissions associated with the smelter industry.\n\nThe conversion between As(III) and As(V) is a large factor in arsenic environmental contamination. According to Croal, Gralnick, Malasarn and Newman, \"[the] understanding [of] what stimulates As(III) oxidation and/or limits As(V) reduction is relevant for bioremediation of contaminated sites (Croal). The study of chemolithoautotrophic As(III) oxidizers and the heterotrophic As(V) reducers can help the understanding of the oxidation and/or reduction of arsenic.\n\nTreatment of chronic arsenic poisoning is possible. British anti-lewisite (dimercaprol) is prescribed in doses of 5 mg/kg up to 300 mg every 4 hours for the first day, then every 6 hours for the second day, and finally every 8 hours for 8 additional days. However the USA's Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry (ATSDR) states that the long-term effects of arsenic exposure cannot be predicted. Blood, urine, hair, and nails may be tested for arsenic; however, these tests cannot foresee possible health outcomes from the exposure. Long-term exposure and consequent excretion through urine has been linked to bladder and kidney cancer in addition to cancer of the liver, prostate, skin, lungs, and nasal cavity.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20578788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20578788", "title": "Bergermeer gas storage", "text": "Bergermeer gas storage\n\nThe Bergermeer gas storage is an underground natural gas storage in the Alkmaar region north of Amsterdam in the Netherlands. It started operations in 2014. It is one of the largest gas storages in Europe.\n\nThe gas storage uses a depleted gas reservoir. The working volume of the gas storage will be 4.1 billion cubic meters (bcm) and a volume of cushion gas would be 4.6 bcm. The gas storage will include 14 new wells to a depth of , of pipeline and the gas treatment facility. The gas treatment and compression facilities are being designed as a zero-emissions plant. The project is expected to cost €800 million excluding the cost of cushion gas. In August 2009, Gazprom Export—the export unit of Gazprom—was contracted to supply the project's cushion gas in exchange for gas storage services and a participating interest in operations of the facility. The final investment decision was made in October 2009. Assuming all permits are obtained, construction will start in mid-2010 with drilling of the 14 new wells expected to start in 2011. Commercial operations will start due to resistance of local city councils in 2014 at the earliest.\n\nThe Bergermeer project consortium consists of TAQA Energy B.V. (a subsidiary of the Abu Dhabi National Energy Company), Energie Beheer Nederland (EBN), Dyas B.V. and Suncor. The facility will be operated by TAQA Energy.\n\nA number of scientific reports however show that gas storage might bring about serious seismic hazard to the surrounding municipalities of Bergen, Heiloo and Schermer and the town of Alkmaar. The area has known a number of (man) induced earthquakes during the depletion of the field between 1994 and 2008, with subsequent higher magnitudes on the Richter scale. Scientists from a number of renowned scientific institutes such as KNMI, MIT and TNO are comfortable with an estimated maximum magnitude of 3,9 on the Richter scale, with a chance of occurrence of 2% over the concession period. Earthquakes with lower magnitude but still quite damaging are of a much higher likelihood.\n"}
{"id": "41207008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41207008", "title": "Biological photovoltaics", "text": "Biological photovoltaics\n\nBiological photovoltaics (BPV) is an energy-generating technology which uses oxygenic photoautotrophic organisms, or fractions thereof, to harvest light energy and produce electrical power. Biological photovoltaic devices are a type of biological electrochemical system, or microbial fuel cell, and are sometimes also called photo-microbial fuel cells or “living solar cells”. In a biological photovoltaic system, electrons generated by photolysis of water are transferred to an anode. A relatively high-potential reaction takes place at the cathode, and the resulting potential difference drives current through an external circuit to do useful work. It is hoped that using a living organism (which is capable of self-assembly and self-repair) as the light harvesting material, will make biological photovoltaics a cost-effective alternative to synthetic light-energy-transduction technologies such as silicon-based photovoltaics.\n\nLike other fuel cells, biological photovoltaic systems are divided into anodic and cathodic half-cells.\n\nOxygenic photosynthetic biological material, such as purified photosystems or whole algal or cyanobacterial cells, are employed in the anodic half-cell. These organisms are able to use light energy to drive the oxidation of water, and a fraction of the electrons produced by this reaction are transferred to the extracellular environment, where they can be used to reduce an anode. No heterotrophic organisms are included in the anodic chamber - electrode reduction is performed directly by the photosynthetic material.\n\nThe higher electrode potential of the cathodic reaction relative to the reduction of the anode drives current through an external circuit. In the illustration, oxygen is being reduced to water at the cathode, though other electron acceptors can be used. If water is regenerated there is a closed loop in terms of electron flow (similar to a conventional photovoltaic system), i.e. light energy is the only net input required for production of electrical power. Alternatively, electrons can be used at the cathode for electrosynthetic reactions that produce useful compounds, such as the reduction of protons to hydrogen gas.\n\nSimilar to microbial fuel cells, biological photovoltaic systems which employ whole organisms have the advantage over non-biological fuel cells and photovoltaic systems of being able to self-assemble and self-repair (i.e. the photosynthetic organism is able to reproduce itself). The ability of the organism to store energy allows for power generation from biological photovoltaic systems in the dark, circumventing the grid supply and demand problems sometimes faced by conventional photovoltaics. Additionally, the use of photosynthetic organisms that fix carbon dioxide means the 'assembly' of the light harvesting material in a biological photovoltaic system could have a negative carbon footprint.\n\nCompared to microbial fuel cells, which use heterotrophic microorganisms, biological photovoltaic systems need no input of organic compounds to supply reducing equivalents to the system. This improves the efficiency of light-to-electricity conversion by minimising the number of reactions separating the capture of light energy and reduction of the anode. A disadvantage of using oxygenic photosynthetic material in bioelectrochemical systems is that the production of oxygen in the anodic chamber has a detrimental effect on the cell voltage.\n\nBiological photovoltaic systems are defined by the type of light harvesting material that they employ, and the mode of electron transfer from the biological material to the anode.\n\nThe light harvesting materials employed in biological photovoltaic devices can be categorised by their complexity; more complex materials are typically less efficient but more robust.\n\nIsolated photosystems offer the most direct connection between water photolysis and anode reduction. Typically, photosystems are isolated and adsorbed to a conductive surface. A soluble redox mediator (a small molecule capable of accepting and donating electrons) may be required to improve the electrical communication between photosystem and anode. Because other cellular components required for repair are absent, biological photovoltaic systems based on isolated photosystems have relatively short lifetimes (a few hours) and often require low temperatures to improve stability.\n\nSub-cellular fractions of photosynthetic organisms, such as purified thylakoid membranes, can also be used in biological photovoltaic systems. A benefit of using material that contains both photosystem II and photosystem I is that electrons extracted from water by photosystem II can be donated to the anode at a more negative redox potential (from the reductive end of photosystem I). A redox mediator (e.g. ferricyanide) is required to transfer electrons between the photosynthetic components and the anode.\n\nBiological photovoltaic systems that employ whole organisms are the most robust type, and lifetimes of multiple months have been observed. The insulating outer membranes of whole cells impedes electron transfer from the sites of electron generation inside the cell to the anode. As a result, conversion efficiencies are low unless lipid-soluble redox mediators are included in the system. Cyanobacteria are typically used in these systems because their relatively simple arrangement of intracellular membranes compared to eukaryotic algae facilitates electron export.Potential catalysts such as platinum can be used to increase permeability of the cellular membrane.\n\nReduction of the anode by the photosynthetic material can be achieved by a direct electron transfer, or via a soluble redox mediator. Redox mediators may be lipid-soluble (e.g. vitamin K2), allowing them to pass through cell membranes, and can either be added to the system or produced by the biological material.\n\nIsolated photosystems and sub-cellular photosynthetic fractions may be able to directly reduce the anode if the biological redox components are close enough to the electrode for electron transfer to occur. In contrast to organisms such as dissimilatory metal reducing bacteria, algae and cyanobacteria are poorly adapted for extracellular electron export - no molecular mechanisms enabling direct reduction of an insoluble extracellular electron acceptor have been conclusively identified. Nevertheless, a low rate of anode reduction has been observed from whole photosynthetic organisms without the addition of exogenous redox-active compounds. It has been speculated that electron transfer occurs through the release of low concentrations of endogenous redox mediator compounds. Improving the electron export activity of cyanobacteria for use in biological photovoltaic systems is a topic of current research.\n\nRedox mediators are often added to experimental systems to improve the rate of electron export from the biological material and/or electron transfer to the anode, especially when whole cells are employed as the light harvesting material. Quinones, phenazines, and viologens have all been successfully employed to increase current output from photosynthetic oranisms in biological photovoltaic devices. Adding artificial mediators is considered an unsustainable practice in scaled-up applications, so most modern research is on mediator-free systems.\n\nThe conversion efficiency of biological photovoltaic devices is presently too low for scaled-up versions to achieve grid parity. Genetic engineering approaches are being employed to increase the current output from photosynthetic organisms for use in biological photovoltaic systems.\n\n"}
{"id": "13844061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13844061", "title": "Brazilian Electricity Regulatory Agency", "text": "Brazilian Electricity Regulatory Agency\n\nThe Brazilian Electricity Regulatory Agency (in Portuguese, \"Agência Nacional de Energia Elétrica\", ANEEL) is an autarchy of the government of Brazil linked to the Ministry of Mines and Energy. Its stated goal is to \"provide favorable conditions for the electricity market to develop in a balanced environment amongst agents, for the benefit of society.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34912388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34912388", "title": "Calaminarian grassland", "text": "Calaminarian grassland\n\nCalaminarian grassland is grassland where the process of seral succession has been halted due to the toxicity of soils containing high levels of toxic metal ions. These habitats may be semi-natural on naturally exposed deposits, or the result of mining, or from erosion by rivers, sometimes including washed-out mine workings.\n\nIn the United Kingdom calaminarian grassland is regarded as one of its 'habitats of principal importance for biodiversity conservation' and is predominantly found on industrial or post-industrial land, especially in the east of Cumbria and western dales, the Peak District and north west Wales and parts of the Scottish Highlands. Semi-natural examples are rarer and found mainly in the Highlands and Islands of Scotland.\n\nSpecies typical of Calaminarian grasslands include: \nOther notable species include:\n\n"}
{"id": "4292072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4292072", "title": "Charcoal lighter fluid", "text": "Charcoal lighter fluid\n\nCharcoal lighter fluid is a volatile fluid used to accelerate the ignition of charcoal in a barbecue grill. It can either be petroleum based (e.g., mineral spirits) or alcohol based (usually methanol or ethanol). It can be used both with lump charcoal and briquettes. Lighter-fluid infused briquettes, that eliminate the need for separate application of lighter fluid, are available. The use of lighter fluid is somewhat controversial as the substance is combustible, harmful or fatal if swallowed, and may impart an unpleasant flavor to food cooked upon fires lit with it. A traditional alternative to using lighter fluid is a chimney starter.\n\nThe sale of petroleum-based charcoal lighter fluid is regulated in some jurisdictions due to its potential to cause photochemical smog through evaporation of its volatile organic compounds. The South Coast Air Quality Management District requires that all charcoal lighter fluids sold in its jurisdiction (essentially Southern California) meet the air quality standards set forth in District Rule 1174. Common substitutes are chimney and electric fire starters.\n\nIn former Soviet countries the alcohol-based lighter fluid is sometimes consumed as a surrogate alcohol among very poor alcoholics because of its cheap price compared to vodka, just like it is with \"Troynoy\" \"Eau de Cologne\".\n"}
{"id": "53888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53888", "title": "Death Star", "text": "Death Star\n\nDeath Star is the name of a number of fictional mobile space stations and galactic superweapons featured in the \"Star Wars\" space opera franchise. The first Death Star is stated to be more than 100 km to 160 km in diameter, depending on source. It is crewed by an estimated 1.7 million military personnel and 400,000 droids. One blast of its superweapon delivers energy comparable to that released by the Sun in an entire week. The second Death Star is significantly larger, between 160 km to 900 km in diameter depending on source, and technologically more powerful than its predecessor. Both versions of these moon-sized fortresses are designed for massive power projection capabilities, capable of destroying multiple naval fleets or entire planets with one blast from their superlasers.\n\nAlthough details, such as the superlaser's location, shifted between different concept models during production of \"Star Wars\", the notion of the Death Star being a large, spherical space station over 100 kilometers in diameter was consistent in all of them. George Lucas gave the original task of designing a \"Death Star\" to concept artist and spaceship modeler Colin Cantwell, who had collaborated with Stanley Kubrick on the 1968 film \"\". In a 2016 interview, Cantwell related that \"I didn't originally plan for the Death Star to have a trench, but when I was working with the mold, I noticed the two halves had shrunk at the point where they met across the middle.\" As it \"would have taken a week of work just to fill and sand and refill this depression,\" Cantwell suggested a trench to Lucas to save the labor. Lucas liked the idea, and the Death Star model was created by John Stears. The buzzing sound counting down to the Death Star firing its superlaser comes from the \"Flash Gordon\" serials. Portraying an incomplete yet powerful space station posed a problem for Industrial Light & Magic's modelmakers for \"Return of the Jedi\". Only the front side of the 137-centimeter model was completed, and the image was flipped horizontally for the final film. Both Death Stars were depicted by a combination of complete and sectional models and matte paintings.\n\nThe Death Star explosions featured in the special edition of \"A New Hope\" and in \"Return of the Jedi\" are rendered with a Praxis effect, wherein a flat ring of matter erupts from the explosion.\n\nThe grid plan animations shown during the Rebel briefing for the attack on the Death Star late in \"A New Hope\" were an actual computer graphics simulation from the Jet Propulsion Laboratory made by Larry Cuba and Gary Imhoff as part of a CalArts project, and had been included during filming.\n\nThese are depictions of the Death Star and other similar weapons of mass destruction within the \"Star Wars\" canon.\n\nThe original Death Star's completed form appears in \"Star Wars: A New Hope\", known officially as the \"DS-1\" Orbital Battle Station, or Project Stardust in \"Rogue One\". Commanded by Governor Tarkin, it is the Galactic Empire's \"ultimate weapon\", a huge spherical space station 160 kilometers in diameter capable of destroying a planet with one shot of its superlaser. The film opens with Princess Leia transporting the station's schematics to the Rebel Alliance to aid them in destroying the Death Star. Tarkin orders the Death Star to destroy Leia's home world of Alderaan in an attempt to press her into giving him the location of the secret Rebel base; she gives them the false location of Dantooine, but Tarkin has Alderaan destroyed anyway, as a demonstration of the Death Star's firepower and the Empire's resolve. Later, Luke Skywalker, Han Solo, Chewbacca, Obi-Wan Kenobi, C-3PO, and R2-D2 are pulled aboard the station by a tractor beam, where they discover and manage to rescue Princess Leia. As they make their escape, Obi-Wan dies fighting Darth Vader, enabling the others to flee the station. Later, Luke returns as part of a fighter force to attack its only weak point: a ray-shielded particle exhaust vent leading straight from the surface directly into its reactor core. Luke was able to successfully launch his fighter's torpedoes into the vent, impacting the core and triggering a catastrophic explosion, which destroyed the station before it could use its superlaser weapon to annihilate its intended target, the Rebel base on Yavin IV.\n\n\"The Clone Wars\" Legacy story reel from the unfinished \"Crystal Crisis on Utapau\" episodes revealed that the reason General Grievous was on Utapau in \"Revenge of the Sith\" was to acquire enormous kyber crystals, which were required to power the Death Star's superlaser.\n\nThe first Death Star's schematics are visible in the scenes on Geonosis in \"\" showcasing the early development of the Death Star prototype, the Death Star plans were designed by Geonosians led by Archduke Poggle the Lesser, a member of the Confederacy of Independent Systems, and is shown early in construction at the end of \"\". The Death Star plans are a central plot-point in the 2016 film \"Rogue One\" and the original 1977 film \"Star Wars: Episode IV – A New Hope\".\n\nA hologram from the original Death Star is briefly visible in a scene at the Resistance base in \"\" and used as a means of comparison with one from the First Order's own superweapon, Starkiller Base.\n\nIn the animated series \"Star Wars Rebels\", the two-part episode \"Ghost of Geonosis\" hinted that the Geonosians were nearly wiped out to extinction out of the Empire's need for secrecy. Saw Gerrera, having been sent to Geonosis to investigate, deduced the Empire possesses a superweapon and resolved to discover the Death Star as depicted in the final season two-parter \"In the Name of the Rebellion.\" Though it was a dead end, finding only scientists being abducted by the Empire, Saw learned the weapon is powered by kyber crystals taken from the Jedha system.\n\nThe anthology film \"Rogue One\" focuses on a band of Rebels stealing the plans for the first Death Star prior to the events of \"A New Hope\". The Death Star project was overseen by Orson Krennic, the Director of Advanced Weapons Research for the Imperial Military. Under Krennic's supervision, the project was beset by constant delays, and he forcibly recruited weapons designer Galen Erso (the father of Jyn Erso, the movie's main protagonist) to complete the design; nevertheless, it was another fifteen years before the Death Star was operational. The Death Star's primary laser was powered by kyber crystals mined from the desert moon of Jedha, and is first used to destroy Jedha City both as a response to a violent insurgency on the planet, and as a display of the Death Star's operational status to restore the Empire's confidence in the project. Grand Moff Tarkin assumes control over the Death Star while Krennic investigates security breaches in the design project. It is subsequently revealed that Galen discreetly sabotaged the design by building a vulnerability into the reactor. This is the same vulnerability that Luke Skywalker takes advantage of during the events of \"A New Hope\". After the Death Star plans are stolen from the Scarif vault, Tarkin fires the Death Star laser on the base killing Krennic, as well as Jyn Erso and Cassian Andor.\n\nThe canonical population of the first Death Star was 1.7 million military personnel, 400,000 maintenance droids, and 250,000 civilians/ associated contractors.\n\nThe 2014 book \"\" detailed the life of Grand Moff Tarkin, and prominently featured the first Death Star. The theme of the construction of the Death Star is continued in the 2016 book, \"\", which tells the story of the development of the Death Star's superweapon by the scientist, Galen Erso and Krennic's deception of him. It also reveals how Poggle worked with Krennic on the Project but then turned on him.\n\nIn the film \"Rogue One,\" it is revealed that the Death Star's superlaser is powered by multiple reactors, allowing it to vary its destructive power depending on the target. Skeptical of the station's power, Tarkin ordered that it first be tested on Jedha City using a single reactor. Subsequently, a second single-reactor test would destroy their installation on Scarif, along with the Rebel strike force who had successfully stolen the station's plans. The destruction of the planet Alderaan would be the first time the Death Star was tested with all reactors employed.\n\n\"Return of the Jedi\" features a second Death Star still under construction in orbit around the second moon of Endor. Emperor Palpatine and Darth Vader send the Rebels false information that the station's weapons systems are not yet operational in order to lure them into a trap. When the station's protective shield is disabled by a ground assault team on the forest moon of the planet Endor (led by Han Solo) with the help of the native Ewoks, Rebel fighters flew into the unfinished station targeting its reactor core chamber and damaged the reactor core itself, which eventually explodes and destroys the station. It was destroyed by Wedge Antilles and Lando Calrissian (with Nien Nunb as his \"Millennium Falcon\" co-pilot), the former destroying a power regulator and the latter destroying the main reactor.\n\nThe second Death Star is featured in the cover of the book \"\" (2015), which also features many flashbacks to the destruction of the second Death Star, as well as the events directly after its destruction. One of the main characters in the story personally escaped the explosion of the Death Star. The destruction of the second Death Star was also shown in holograms in the book. The 2015 comic book \"\" also explores the days following the destruction of the second Death Star from the perspective of Poe Dameron's parents, who were pilots during the event. The video game \"\" also takes place during the aftermath of the second Death Star's destruction, and features a hologram of its description on multiple occasions in and out of cutscenes.\n\nThe \"Star Wars Rebels\" episode \"Twilight of the Apprentice\" features a forbidden planet called Malachor, home of an ancient Sith Temple. This temple contained a superweapon capable of destroying life, and could only be activated by placing a special Sith Holocron in an obelisk at the summit of the pyramid inside the temple. Thousands of years prior, a battle was waged on Malachor that resulted in the deaths of its inhabitants. Somewhere between the events of his last appearance in \"\" and this episode, Darth Maul had become stranded on Malachor. When Ahsoka Tano, Kanan and Ezra arrived, Ezra was separated from them. He was discovered by a character who later revealed himself to be Maul. Together, they solved a series of test chambers that required cooperation between two Force wielders, and retrieved a Sith Holocron. With the help of Kanan and Ahsoka, they fought three Inquisitors, all of whom were killed by Maul. Maul then betrayed his allies, blinding Kanan, and proceeded to activate the superweapon. Once Maul was defeated by a sightless Kanan, Darth Vader arrived with the intention of retrieving the holocron, but was challenged by Ahsoka Tano, his former Padawan. While the superweapon was preparing to fire, Kanan and Ezra retrieved the holocron themselves and escaped, preventing this weapon of mass destruction from being used. Even though the temple was destabilized, Ahsoka and Vader kept fighting to the death within the rapidly-crumbling building, until it eventually exploded, wounding Darth Vader and almost killing Ahsoka, who ended up being rescued by Ezra through a portal on Lothal, that he saw the battle occurring through.\n\n\"\" features Starkiller Base, a planet converted into a superweapon built by the First Order. Significantly larger than either the first or second Death Star, and unlike either of those cost-prohibitive space stations, this superweapon cut-costs by terraforming an existing planet and draws its fire power directly from a sun (by extracting a kind of Dark Energy called Quintessence and turning it into another type of dark energy called Phantom Energy), but it requires time to draw enough energy. Once fired, it has the power to destroy up to five planets within the same star system simultaneously, making it a far deadlier superweapon than the Death Star. General Hux gave an intense speech while Starkiller Base demonstrated its lethality by obliterating the five planets of the Hosnian Prime system (the location of the Republic government, which rotates every few years), the cataclysm witnessed by Han Solo, Chewbacca, Rey and Finn from Maz Kanata's castle. After Rey was captured by Kylo Ren, he interrogated her within the base. Han, Chewbacca and Finn approached the base at light-speed because the Starkiller's shield kept out anything going under the speed of light. They found Rey and successfully lowered the protective shields, enabling an X-wing assault led by Poe Dameron and Nien Numb to destroy the planet-converted superweapon, with Poe firing the crucial, destructive shots. The name Starkiller Base paid homage to the early drafts of the original Star Wars film, referring to Luke Skywalker's original name as Luke Starkiller.\n\nBoth \"Death Star\"s appear throughout the non-canonical \"Star Wars\" Legends (formerly known as the Expanded Universe).\n\nThe first \"Death Star\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s construction is the subject of Michael Reaves and Steve Perry's novel \"Death Star\". In LucasArts's \"\", the player participates in a mission to secure crystals used in the Death Star's superlaser. The first Death Star under construction acts as the final stage in the video game, \"\". Kevin J. Anderson's \"Jedi Academy\" trilogy introduces the Maw Cluster of black holes that protect a laboratory where the \"Death Star\" prototype was built (consisting of the super structure, power core, and superlaser).\n\nNational Public Radio's \"A New Hope\" adaptation portrays Leia (Ann Sachs) and Bail Organa's (Stephen Elliott) discovery of the Death Star's existence and Leia's mission to steal the space station's schematics. The first level of LucasArts' \"\" gives the player a supporting role in Leia's mission, while a mission in \"Battlefront II\" tasks the player with acting as a stormtrooper or Darth Vader in an attempt to recover the plans and capture Leia. Steve Perry's novel \"Shadows of the Empire\" describes a mission that leads to the Rebels learning of the second Death Star's existence, and that mission is playable in LucasArts' \"X-Wing Alliance\" combat flight simulator. Numerous LucasArts titles recreate the movies' attacks on the Death Stars, and the Death Star itself is a controllable weapon for the Empire in the \"\" and \"\" strategy game. A Death Star variation appears in Kevin J. Anderson's novel \"Darksaber\" (1995), and a prototype version of the Death Star can be found in his novel \"Jedi Search\" (1994).\n\nThe first Death Star is depicted in various sources of having a crew of 265,675, as well as 52,276 gunners, 607,360 troops, 30,984 stormtroopers, 42,782 ship support staff, and 180,216 pilots and support crew. Its hangars contain assault shuttles, blastboats, Strike cruisers, land vehicles, support ships, and 7,293 TIE fighters. It is also protected by 10,000 turbolaser batteries, 2,600 ion cannons, and at least 768 tractor beam projectors. Various sources state the first Death Star has a diameter of between 140 and 160 kilometers. There is a broader range of figures for the second Death Star's diameter, ranging from 160 to 900 kilometers.\n\nIn the \"Legends\" novels \"Death Star\", \"Dark Empire II\", \"Jedi Search\" and \"Champions of the Force\", an experimental \"Death Star\" prototype, DS-X (a durasteel frame surrounding a reactor core, superlaser, engines and a control room) was conceived by Grand Moff Wilhuff Tarkin as a test bed for the first Death Star. It was constructed by Bevel Lemelisk and his engineers at the Empire's secret Maw Installation. The prototype measured 120 kilometers in diameter. Its superlaser was only powerful enough to destroy a planet's core, rendering it an uninhabitable \"dead planet\". The targeting system on the prototype was never calibrated and the superlaser was inefficient, leaving the weapon's batteries drained. The prototype had no interior except a slave-linked control room, hyperdrive engines and other components; the station operated with skeleton-crew of 75 personnel.\n\nGeorge Lucas himself confirmed that the plans featured in \"Attack of the Clones\" and the under-construction facility in \"Revenge of the Sith\" was indeed the original \"Death Star\". The \"Star Wars: The New Essential Chronology\" retconned the \"DS-X\" prototype into being built \"alongside\" the main \"Death Star\".\n\nIn the Disney attraction \"\", guests can travel inside an incomplete Death Star during one of the randomized ride sequences. In the original Star Tours, a Death Star III is seen and destroyed during the ride sequence by the New Republic. Leland Chee originally created the third \"Death Star\" to explain why a \"Death Star\" is present on the \"Star Tours\" ride when both of the stations in the movies were destroyed. The station being built near the Forest Moon of Endor like the second \"Death Star\" before it is similar to an original concept for Return of the Jedi, where two \"Death Star\"s would have been built near Had Abbadon (then the Imperial capital world). The \"Habitation\" spheres, based on the Imperials' suspicious claims that they were designed strictly for peaceful purposes, were suggested by some fans to have been the origin for the Death Star III. This was later revealed to be the case in Part 2 of the StarWars.com Blog series \"The Imperial Warlords: Despoilers of an Empire\". In the \"Star Wars Legends\" game \"Tiny Death Star\", a random HoloNet entry states that one of the residents of the \"Death Star\" is simply staying there until he can afford to stay at the third \"Death Star\".\n\nThe Death Star placed ninth in a 2008 20th Century Fox poll of the most popular movie weapons. It is also referred to outside of the \"Star Wars\" context.\n\nKTCK (SportsRadio 1310 The Ticket) in Dallas were the first to use the term \"Death Star\" to describe the new mammoth Cowboys Stadium, now AT&T Stadium, in Arlington, Texas. The term has since spread to local media and is generally accepted as a proper nickname for the stadium.\n\nThe Death Star strategy was the name Enron gave to one of their fraudulent business practices for manipulating California's energy market.\n\nAT&T Corporation's logo introduced in 1982 is informally referred to as the \"Death Star\". \"Ars Technica\" referred to \"the AT&T Death Star\" in an article criticizing a company data policy. Competitor T-Mobile mocked AT&T's \"Death Star\" logo and \"Empire-like reputation\" in a press release.\n\nIn 1981, following the \"Voyager\" spacecraft's flight past Saturn, scientists noticed a resemblance between one of the planet's moons, Mimas, and the Death Star. Additionally, a few astronomers sometimes use the term \"Death Star\" to describe Nemesis, a hypothetical star postulated in 1984 to be responsible for gravitationally forcing comets and asteroids from the Oort cloud toward Earth.\n\nKenner and AMT created a playset and a model, respectively, of the first Death Star. In 2005 and 2008, Lego released models of Death Star II and Death Star I, respectively.\nIn 1979, Palitoy created a heavy card version of the Death Star as a playset for the vintage range of action figures in the UK, Australia and Canada. Both Death Stars are part of different Micro Machines three-packs. The Death Stars and locations in them are cards in Decipher, Inc.'s and Wizards of the Coast's Star Wars Customizable Card Game and Star Wars Trading Card Game, respectively. Hasbro released a Death Star model that transforms into a Darth Vader mech. Estes Industries released a flying model rocket version.\n\nA Death Star trinket box was also released by Royal Selangor in 2015, in conjunction with the upcoming December screening of \"\". In 2016, Plox released the official levitating Death Star Speaker in anticipation of the upcoming screening of \"Rogue One: A Star Wars Story\".\n\nIn 2012–13, a proposal on the White House's website urging the United States government to build a real Death Star as an economic stimulus and job creation measure gained more than 30,000 signatures, enough to qualify for an official response. The official (tongue-in-cheek) response was released in January 2013: the cost of building a real Death Star has been estimated at $850 quadrillion by the Lehigh University, or about 13,000 times the amount of mineable resources on Earth, while the \"International Business Times\" cited a Centives economics blog calculation that, at current rates of steel production, the Death Star would not be ready for more than 833,000 years. The White House response also stated \"the Administration does not support blowing up planets,\" and questioned funding a weapon \"with a fundamental flaw that can be exploited by a one-man starship\" as reasons for denying the petition.\n\nThe Luxemburgish magician Christian Lavey (born as Christian Kies) submitted a petition for the construction of a Death Star to the Luxemburgish parliament. However, on an interview with a local radio station Lavey admitted that this petition was just a joke and some kind of protest against the space plans of the government.\n\n"}
{"id": "41017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41017", "title": "Demand factor", "text": "Demand factor\n\nIn telecommunication, electronics and the electrical power industry, the term demand factor is used to refer to the fractional amount of some quantity being used relative to the maximum amount that could be used by the same system. The demand factor is always less than or equal to one. As the amount of demand is a time dependent quantity so is the demand factor.\n\nformula_1\n\nThe demand factor is often implicitly averaged over time when the time period of demand is understood by the context.\n\nIn electrical engineering the demand factor is taken as a time independent quantity where the numerator is taken as the maximum demand in the specified time period instead of the averaged or instantaneous demand.\n\nformula_2\n\nThis is the peak in the load profile divided by the full load of the device.\n\nExample: \nIf a residence has equipment which could draw 6,000 W when all equipment was drawing a full load, drew a maximum of 3,000 W in a specified time, then the demand factor = 3,000 W / 6,000 W = 0.5\nThis quantity is relevant when trying to establish the amount of load for which a system should be rated. In the above example, it would be unlikely that the system would be rated to 6,000 W, even though there may be a slight possibility that this amount of power can be drawn. This is closely related to the load factor which is the average load divided by the peak load in a specified time period.\n\nformula_3\n\n"}
{"id": "22714557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22714557", "title": "Diffusion current", "text": "Diffusion current\n\nDiffusion Current is a current in a semiconductor caused by the diffusion of charge carriers (holes and/or electrons). This is the current which is due to the transport of charges occurring because of non-uniform concentration of charged particles in a semiconductor. The drift current, by contrast, is due to the motion of charge carriers due to the force exerted on them by an electric field. Diffusion current can be in the same or opposite direction of a drift current. The diffusion current and drift current together are described by the drift–diffusion equation.\n\nIt is necessary to consider the part of diffusion current when describing many semiconductor devices. For example, the current near the depletion region of a p–n junction is dominated by the diffusion current. Inside the depletion region, both diffusion current and drift current are present. At equilibrium in a p–n junction, the forward diffusion current in the depletion region is balanced with a reverse drift current, so that the net current is zero.\n\nThe diffusion constant for a doped material can be determined with the Haynes–Shockley experiment. Alternatively, if the carrier mobility is known, the diffusion coefficient may be determined from the Einstein relation on electrical mobility.\n\nThe following table compares the two types of current:\n\nNo external electric field across the semiconductor is required for a diffusion current to take place. This is because diffusion takes place due to the change in concentration of the carrier particles and not the concentrations themselves. The carrier particles, namely the holes and electrons of a semiconductor, move from a place of higher concentration to a place of lower concentration. Hence, due to the flow of holes and electrons there is a current. This current is called the diffusion current. The drift current and the diffusion current make up the total current in the conductor. The change in the concentration of the carrier particles develops a gradient. Due to this gradient, an electric field is produced in the semiconductor.\n\nTo derive the diffusion current in a semiconductor diode, the depletion layer must be large compared to the mean free path.\nOne begins with the equation for the net current density \"J\" in a semiconductor diode,\n\nwhere \"D\" is the diffusion coefficient for the electron in the considered medium, \"n\" is the number of electrons per unit volume (i.e. number density), \"q\" is the magnitude of charge of an electron, \"μ\" is electron mobility in the medium, and \"E\" = −\"d\"Φ/\"dx\" (Φ potential difference) is the electric field as the potential gradient of the electric potential. According to the Einstein relation on electrical mobility formula_1 and formula_2. Thus, substituting \"E\" for the potential gradient in the above equation () and multiplying both sides with exp(−Φ/V), () becomes:\n\nIntegrating equation () over the depletion region gives\n\nwhich can be written as\n\nwhere \n\nThe denominator in equation () can be solved by using the following equation:\n\nTherefore, Φ* can be written as:\n\nSince the \"x\" « \"x\" the term (\"x\" − \"x\"/2) ≈ \"x\", using this approximation equation () is solved as follows:\n\nsince (Φ − \"V\") > \"V\". One obtains the equation of current caused due to diffusion:\n\nFrom equation (), one can observe that the current depends exponentially on the input voltage \"V\", also the barrier height Φ. From equation (), \"V\" can be written as the function of electric field intensity, which is as follows:\n\nSubstituting equation () in equation () gives:\n\nFrom equation (), one can observe that when a zero voltage is applied to the semi-conductor diode, the drift current totally balances the diffusion current. Hence, the net current in a semiconductor diode at zero potential is always zero.\n\nThe equation above can be applied to model semiconductor devices. When the density of electrons is not in equilibrium, diffusion of electrons will occur. For example, when a bias is applied to two ends of a chunk of semiconductor, or a light is shining in one place (see right figure), electron will diffuse from high density regions (center) to low density regions (two ends), forming a gradient of electron density. This process generates diffusion current.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48888386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48888386", "title": "Difluoroamino sulfur pentafluoride", "text": "Difluoroamino sulfur pentafluoride\n\nDifluoroamino sulfur pentafluoride is a gaseous chemical compound of fluorine, sulfur, and nitrogen. It is unusual in having a hexa-coordinated sulfur atom with a link to nitrogen. Other names for this substance include difluoro(pentafluorosulfur)amine, pentafluorosulfanyldifluoramine, and pentafluorosulfanyl \"N\",\"N\"-difluoramine.\n\nDifluoroamino sulfur pentafluoride is a colourless gas at room temperature. The molecule is shaped as a tetragonal bipyramid around the sulfur atom.\n\nTo within half a degree the boiling point is -17.5 °C.\n\nDifluoroamino sulfur pentafluoride is stable at room temperature, but decomposes on the timescale of hours at 80 °C. Decomposition results in sulfur tetrafluoride and nitrogen trifluoride. It is not stable above 220 °C. It is stable with water or stainless steel.\n\nWhen stored in quartz and exposed to ultraviolet light, it decomposes slightly and reacts with silica to make SF NF, SF, NF, SOF, SOF, and NO.\n\nThe bond between sulfur and nitrogen is quite weak with a dissociation energy of 50 kcal/mol.\n\nThe infrared spectrum contains strong absorption bands around 885, 910, and 950 cm due to the bonds with fluorine. If a strong irradiation at 910 cm with a laser takes place the molecules can be disrupted to form disulfur decafluoride, SF and NF. By adjusting the frequency of a laser, the break up can be made isotope selective., and also the SF can be broken up by another nearby frequency.\n\nThe fluorine atoms attached to the sulfur are attached at close to 90° from each other, and the four around the equator are also at 90° from the nitrogen sulfur bond. The angle subtended by fluorine atoms on the nitrogen atom is about 98°, and the sulfur-nitrogen-fluorine angle is about 111°. The distance between sulfur and the four equatorial fluorine atoms is 1.545 Å. The axial fluorine to sulfur distance is 1.556 Å. Nitrogen sulfur distance is about 1.696 Å. The fluorine-nitrogen bond is the shortest in the molecule at 1.378 Å.\n\nDifluoroamino sulfur pentafluoride has been prepared by irradiating a mixture of dinitrogen tetrafluoride and sulfur tetrafluoride with ultraviolet light.\n\nThis preparation also works with a mixture of dinitrogen tetrafluoride and sulfur chloride pentafluoride. Formation requires the appearance of the SF radical and chlorine atoms, as well as the nitrogen difluoride radical.\n\nAnother way to make difluoroamino sulfur pentafluoride is by heating dinitrogen tetrafluoride and sulfur. This results in the temporary formation of nitrogen difluoride. However the yield is only around 6%, and mostly sulfur tetrafluoride is formed.\nYet other substrates for dinitrogen tetrafluoride are disulfur decafluoride or sulfur dioxide or thiophosgene in an electric discharge.\n\nA corona discharge in a sulfur hexafluoride, nitrogen mixture produces a small amount of difluoroamino sulfur pentafluoride. THis is important as high voltage equipment is often insulated with this gas combination.\n\nPentafluorosulfanylamine reacts with fluorine gas to yield difluoroamino sulfur pentafluoride:\n\nDifluoroamino sulfur pentafluoride reacts with Lewis acids like KrFAsF at -31°C to yield SF, Kr, NF and solid NFAsF. With AsF at -196°C (as liquid) it produces solid NFAsF, SF and trans-NF. Similar products also come from room temperature reactions.\n\nThere is a Russian patent to use a combination of alkenes and difluoroamino sulfur pentafluoride as a rocket fuel.\n\nRelated substances include fluoroimidotetrafluorosulfur FS=NF and (SF)NF.\nA tertiary amine exists with formula (SF)N.\n\nOther variant substitutions on the nitrogen atom yield SFNFCl, SFNHF, SFNCl and SFNH.\n"}
{"id": "20011717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20011717", "title": "Dobrin Wind Farm", "text": "Dobrin Wind Farm\n\nThe Dobrin Wind Farm () is a proposed wind power project in Dobrin, Dobrich Province, Bulgaria. It will have 100 individual wind turbines with a nominal output of around 2 MW which will deliver up to 200 MW of power, enough to power over 79,800 homes, with a capital investment required of approximately US$180 million.\n\n"}
{"id": "533793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=533793", "title": "Ferrofluid", "text": "Ferrofluid\n\nA ferrofluid (portmanteau of ferromagnetic and fluid) is a liquid that becomes strongly magnetized in the presence of a magnetic field.\nA grinding process for ferrofluid was invented in 1963 by NASA's Steve Papell as a liquid rocket fuel that could be drawn toward a pump inlet in a weightless environment by applying a magnetic field. The name ferrofluid was introduced, the process improved, more highly magnetic liquids synthesized, additional carrier liquids discovered, and the physical chemistry elucidated by R. E. Rosensweig and colleagues; in addition Rosensweig evolved a new branch of fluid mechanics termed ferrohydrodynamics.\n\nFerrofluids are colloidal liquids made of nanoscale ferromagnetic, or ferrimagnetic, particles suspended in a fluid (usually an organic solvent or water). Each tiny particle is thoroughly coated with a surfactant to inhibit clumping. Large ferromagnetic particles can be ripped out of the homogeneous colloidal mixture, forming a separate clump of magnetic dust when exposed to strong magnetic fields. The magnetic attraction of nanoparticles is weak enough that the surfactant's Van der Waals force is sufficient to prevent magnetic clumping or agglomeration. Ferrofluids usually do not retain magnetization in the absence of an externally applied field and thus are often classified as \"superparamagnets\" rather than ferromagnets.\n\nThe difference between ferrofluids and magnetorheological fluids (MR fluids) is the size of the particles. The particles in a ferrofluid primarily consist of nanoparticles which are suspended by Brownian motion and generally will not settle under normal conditions. MR fluid particles primarily consist of micrometre-scale particles which are too heavy for Brownian motion to keep them suspended, and thus will settle over time because of the inherent density difference between the particle and its carrier fluid. These two fluids have very different applications as a result.\n\nFerrofluids are composed of nanoscale particles (diameter usually 10 nanometers or less) of magnetite, hematite or some other compound containing iron, and a liquid. This is small enough for thermal agitation to disperse them evenly within a carrier fluid, and for them to contribute to the overall magnetic response of the fluid. This is similar to the way that the ions in an aqueous paramagnetic salt solution (such as an aqueous solution of copper(II) sulfate or manganese(II) chloride) make the solution paramagnetic. The composition of a typical ferrofluid is about 5% magnetic solids, 10% surfactant and 85% carrier, by volume.\n\nParticles in ferrofluids are dispersed in a liquid, often using a surfactant, and thus ferrofluids are colloidal suspensions – materials with properties of more than one state of matter. In this case, the two states of matter are the solid metal and liquid it is in. This ability to change phases with the application of a magnetic field allows them to be used as seals, lubricants, and may open up further applications in future nanoelectromechanical systems.\n\nTrue ferrofluids are stable. This means that the solid particles do not agglomerate or phase separate even in extremely strong magnetic fields. However, the surfactant tends to break down over time (a few years), and eventually the nano-particles will agglomerate, and they will separate out and no longer contribute to the fluid's magnetic response.\n\nThe term magnetorheological fluid (MRF) refers to liquids similar to ferrofluids (FF) that solidify in the presence of a magnetic field. Magnetorheological fluids have micrometre scale magnetic particles that are one to three orders of magnitude larger than those of ferrofluids.\n\nHowever, ferrofluids lose their magnetic properties at sufficiently high temperatures, known as the Curie temperature.\n\nWhen a paramagnetic fluid is subjected to a strong vertical magnetic field, the surface forms a regular pattern of peaks and valleys. This effect is known as the \"Rosensweig\" or \"normal-field instability\". The instability is driven by the magnetic field; it can be explained by considering which shape of the fluid minimizes the total energy of the system.\n\nFrom the point of view of magnetic energy, peaks and valleys are energetically favorable. In the corrugated configuration, the magnetic field is concentrated in the peaks; since the fluid is more easily magnetized than the air, this lowers the magnetic energy. In consequence the spikes of fluid ride the field lines out into space until there is a balance of the forces involved.\n\nAt the same time the formation of peaks and valleys is resisted by gravity and surface tension. It requires energy both to move fluid out of the valleys and up into the spikes, and to increase the surface area of the fluid. In summary, the formation of the corrugations increases the surface free energy and the gravitational energy of the liquid, but reduces the magnetic energy. The corrugations will only form above a critical magnetic field strength, when the reduction in magnetic energy outweighs the increase in surface and gravitation energy terms.\n\nFerrofluids have an exceptionally high magnetic susceptibility and the critical magnetic field for the onset of the corrugations can be realised by a small bar magnet.\n\nThe surfactants used to coat the nanoparticles include, but are not limited to:\n\n\nThese surfactants prevent the nanoparticles from clumping together, ensuring that the particles do not form aggregates that become too heavy to be held in suspension by Brownian motion. The magnetic particles in an ideal ferrofluid do not settle out, even when exposed to a strong magnetic, or gravitational field. A surfactant has a polar head and non-polar tail (or vice versa), one of which adsorbs to a nanoparticle, while the non-polar tail (or polar head) sticks out into the carrier medium, forming an inverse or regular micelle, respectively, around the particle. Electrostatic repulsion then prevents agglomeration of the particles.\n\nWhile surfactants are useful in prolonging the settling rate in ferrofluids, they also prove detrimental to the fluid's magnetic properties (specifically, the fluid's magnetic saturation). The addition of surfactants (or any other foreign particles) decreases the packing density of the ferroparticles while in its activated state, thus decreasing the fluid's on-state viscosity, resulting in a \"softer\" activated fluid. While the on-state viscosity (the \"hardness\" of the activated fluid) is less of a concern for some ferrofluid applications, it is a primary fluid property for the majority of their commercial and industrial applications and therefore a compromise must be met when considering on-state viscosity versus the settling rate of a ferrofluid.\n\nFerrofluids are used to form liquid seals around the spinning drive shafts in hard disks. The rotating shaft is surrounded by magnets. A small amount of ferrofluid, placed in the gap between the magnet and the shaft, will be held in place by its attraction\nto the magnet. The fluid of magnetic particles forms a barrier which prevents debris from entering the interior of the hard drive. According to engineers at Ferrotec, ferrofluid seals on rotating shafts typically withstand 3 to 4 psi; additional seals can be stacked to form assemblies capable of withstanding higher pressures.\n\nFerrofluids have friction-reducing capabilities. If applied to the surface of a strong enough magnet, such as one made of neodymium, it can cause the magnet to glide across smooth surfaces with minimal resistance.\n\nFerrofluids can also be used in semi-active dampers in mechanical and aerospace applications. While passive dampers are generally bulkier and designed for a particular vibration source in mind, active dampers consume more power. Ferrofluid based dampers solve both of these issues and are becoming popular in the helicopter community, which has to deal with large inertial and aerodynamic vibrations.\n\nFerrofluids can be used to image magnetic domain structures on the surface of ferromagnetic materials using a technique developed by Francis Bitter.\n\nFerrofluids are commonly used in loudspeakers to remove heat from the voice coil, and to passively damp the movement of the cone. They reside in what would normally be the air gap around the voice coil, held in place by the speaker's magnet. Since ferrofluids are paramagnetic, they obey Curie's law and thus become less magnetic at higher temperatures. A strong magnet placed near the voice coil (which produces heat) will attract cold ferrofluid more than hot ferrofluid thus forcing the heated ferrofluid away from the electric voice coil and toward a heat sink. This is a relatively efficient cooling method which requires no additional energy input.\n\nSeveral ferrofluids were marketed for use as contrast agents in magnetic resonance imaging, which depend on the difference in magnetic relaxation times of different tissues to provide contrast. Several agents were introduced and then withdrawn from the market, including Feridex I.V. (also known as Endorem and ferumoxides, discontinued in 2008; resovist (also known as Cliavist (2001 to 2009); Sinerem (also known as Combidex, withdrawn in 2007; Lumirem (also known as Gastromark (1996 to 2012; Clariscan (also known as PEG-fero, Feruglose, and NC100150), development of which was discontinued due to safety concerns.\n\nFerrofluids can be made to self-assemble nanometer-scale needle-like sharp tips under the influence of a magnetic field. When they reach a critical thinness, the needles begin emitting jets that might be used in the future as a thruster mechanism to propel small satellites such as CubeSats.\n\nFerrofluids have numerous optical applications because of their refractive properties; that is, each grain, a micromagnet, reflects light. These applications include measuring specific viscosity of a liquid placed between a polarizer and an analyzer, illuminated by a helium–neon laser.\n\nFerrofluids have been proposed for magnetic drug targeting. In this process the drugs would be attached to or enclosed within a ferrofluid and could be targeted and selectively released using magnetic fields.\n\nIt has also been proposed for targeted magnetic hyperthermia to convert electromagnetic energy into heat.\n\nIt has also been proposed in a form of nanosurgery to separate one tissue from another—for example a tumor from the tissue in which it has grown.\n\nAn external magnetic field imposed on a ferrofluid with varying susceptibility (e.g., because of a temperature gradient) results in a nonuniform magnetic body force, which leads to a form of heat transfer called thermomagnetic convection. This form of heat transfer can be useful when conventional convection heat transfer is inadequate; e.g., in miniature microscale devices or under reduced gravity conditions.\n\nFerrofluids of suitable composition can exhibit extremely large enhancement in thermal conductivity (k; ~300% of the base fluid thermal conductivity). The large enhancement in k is due to the efficient transport of heat through percolating nanoparticle paths. Special magnetic nanofluids with tunable thermal conductivity to viscosity ratio can be used as multifunctional ‘smart materials’ that can remove heat and also arrest vibrations (damper). Such fluids may find applications in microfluidic devices and microelectromechanical systems (MEMS).\n\nResearch is under way to create an adaptive optics shape-shifting magnetic mirror from ferrofluid for Earth-based astronomical telescopes.\n\nOptical filters are used to select different wavelengths of light. The replacement of filters is cumbersome, especially when the wavelength is changed continuously with tunable-type lasers. Optical filters tunable for different wavelengths by varying the magnetic field can be built using ferrofluid emulsion.\n\nFerrofluids enable an interesting opportunity to harvest vibration energy from the environment. Existing methods of harvesting low frequency (<100 Hz) vibrations require the use of solid resonant structures. With ferrofluids, energy harvester designs no longer need solid structure. One simple example of ferrofluid based energy harvesting is to place the ferrofluid inside a container to use external mechanical vibrations to generate electricity inside a coil wrapped around the container surrounded by a permanent magnet. First a ferrofluid is placed inside a container that is wrapped with a coil of wire. The ferrofluid is then externally magnetized using a permanent magnet. When external vibrations cause the ferrofluid to slosh around in the container, there is a change in magnetic flux fields with respect to the coil of wire. Through Faraday's law of electromagnetic induction, voltage is induced in the coil of wire due to change in magnetic flux.\n\n\n\nhttps://www.dignitymemorial.com/obituaries/cleveland-heights-oh/solomon-papell-6510706"}
{"id": "25304227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25304227", "title": "Flowing Gold", "text": "Flowing Gold\n\nFlowing Gold is a 1940 American adventure film starring John Garfield, Frances Farmer, and Pat O'Brien. It was based on the novel of the same name by Rex Beach. The film is set in the American oilfields and the title refers to oil.\n\nOilfield worker John Alexander (John Garfield) is on the run from a murder charge. He talks \"Hap\" O'Connor (Pat O'Brien) into hiring \"Johnny Blake\" on a trial basis, even though Hap has been contacted by the police and given a wanted poster with a photograph of the fugitive. Hap is rewarded when Johnny saves him from being attacked by a man Hap fires for being drunk on the job. However, when the police show up again, Johnny has to flee.\n\nHap and his crew travel to a new oil field to dig a well for old friend Ellery Q. \"Wildcat\" Chalmers (Raymond Walburn). Hap is pleasantly surprised to discover that Wildcat's daughter Linda (Frances Farmer) has grown up into a very attractive woman. However, Charles Hammond (Granville Bates), Wildcat's longtime bitter enemy, sees to it that his loan request is turned down by the bank. Wildcat has no more money, but Hap offers his life savings and is made a partner.\n\nWhen they haul their equipment to the site Wildcat has leased, they find their way blocked by a fence put up by Hammond's men. They drive through it, and a wild melee breaks out. In the middle of it, Hap and Johnny find themselves at each other's throat. Johnny quickly switches sides, and Hammond's men are sent packing.\n\nJohnny goes to work for Hap, but his arrogant attitude gets on Linda's nerves. She is particularly annoyed by his nickname for her, \"freckle nose\". The two are attracted to each other despite themselves, though Hap does not realize it.\n\nWhen Johnny gets arrested for a routine brawl, he is soon released. However, he decides it is time to move on, as his fingerprints were taken. After he leaves though, Hap is injured in an accident. Johnny is the only one who can take over, so Linda catches him and persuades him to come back.\n\nThey finally admit they love each other. Johnny tells her he killed a man in self-defense, and they plan to go to the Venezuela oil fields. When Hap recovers enough to come back, he finds out and tries to dissuade them.\n\nThe well hits water, but Hap knows the same thing happened at a nearby successful well. He has them continue digging, and they strike oil.\n\nJohnny leaves just in time, as policemen come looking for him, having matched him to his fingerprints. However, lightning sets the oil well ablaze. A crane is needed to put the fire out, but the driver refuses to go any further on the dangerous, rain-soaked, landslide-prone road. Johnny takes his place, and the fire is put out. He is taken into custody afterward, but Linda goes with him to face the charge.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36477606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36477606", "title": "Gadolinium oxyorthosilicate", "text": "Gadolinium oxyorthosilicate\n\nGadolinium oxyorthosilicate (known as GSO) is a type of scintillating inorganic crystal used for imaging in nuclear medicine and for calorimetry in particle physics.\n\nThe formula is GdSiO.\nIts main properties are shown below:\n"}
{"id": "1277718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1277718", "title": "Hydrous pyrolysis", "text": "Hydrous pyrolysis\n\nHydrous pyrolysis refers to the thermal decomposition which takes place when organic compounds are heated to high temperatures in the presence of water.\n\nMany hydrous pyrolysis processes use superheated water in the liquid phase, whereas steam cracking uses water in the gas phase. Steam cracking is used in the petroleum industry to produce the lighter alkenes.\n\nHydrous pyrolysis may be a significant process in the creation of fossil fuels. Simple heating without water, anhydrous pyrolysis has long been considered to take place naturally during the catagenesis of kerogens to fossil fuels. In recent decades it has been found that water under pressure causes more efficient breakdown of kerogens at lower temperatures than without it. The carbon isotope ratio of natural gas also suggests that hydrogen from water has been added during creation of the gas.\n\nU.S. patent 2,177,557, describes a two-stage process in which a mixture of water, wood chips, and calcium hydroxide is heated in the first stage at temperatures in a range of , with the pressure \"higher than that of saturated steam at the temperature used.\" This produces \"oils and alcohols\" which are collected. The materials are then subjected in a second stage to what is called \"dry distillation\", which produces \"oils and ketones\". Temperatures and pressures for this Second stage are not disclosed.\n\nZhang et al., at the University of Illinois, report on a hydrous pyrolysis process in which swine manure is converted to oil by heating the swine manure and water in the presence of carbon monoxide in a closed container. For that process they report that a temperatures of at least is required to convert the swine manure to oil, and temperatures above about reduces the amount of oil produced. The Zhang \"et al.\" process produces pressures of about 7 to 18 Mpa (1000 to 2600 psi - 69 to 178 atm), with higher temperatures producing higher pressures. Zhang et al. used a retention time of 120 minutes for the reported study, but report at higher temperatures a time of less than 30 minutes results in significant production of oil.\n\nA commercialized process using hydrous pyrolysis (see the article Thermal depolymerization) used by Changing World Technologies, Inc. (CWT) and its subsidiary Renewable Environmental Solutions, LLC (RES) to convert turkey offal. As a two-stage process, the first stage to convert the turkey offal to hydrocarbons at a temperature of and a second stage to crack the oil into light hydrocarbons at a temperature of near . Adams et al. report only that the first stage heating is \"under pressure\"; Lemley, in a non-technical article on the CWT process, reports that for the first stage (for conversion) a temperature of about and a pressure of about 600 psi, with a time for the conversion of \"usually about 15 minutes\". For the second stage (cracking), Lemley reports a temperature of about .\n\nThe EROEI [Energy Returned On Energy Invested] of these processes is uncertain and/or has not been measured. Furthermore, products of hydrous pyrolysis might not meet current fuel standards. Further processing may be required to produce fuels.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31586461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31586461", "title": "Ingres paper", "text": "Ingres paper\n\nIngres paper is a type of drawing paper. It is a laid finish paper of light to medium weight, and it is not as strong or as durable as Bristol paper. Laid finish refers to the imprint of regular screen pattern of a papermaker's mould. Ingres is not necessarily a handmade paper, but is produced to replicate the properties of laid paper. Ingres is often used for charcoal and pastel drawing. It is also used as an endpaper in books.\n\nThe development of ingres paper for drawing is ascribed to the French Neoclassical artist Dominique Ingres (1780-1867), although modern ingres papers can differ from those actually used by Ingres. Important is that the pattern is a laid mesh. The laid effect creates a toothy grain of close lines on one side and a mottled surface on the reverse. The toothiness allows the paper to take charcoal easily and evenly. Ingres paper is favored in book arts for its antique appearance and pH neutrality.\n\nProminent manufactures include Canson, Hahnemühle (sometimes called \"German Ingres\"), and Fabriano. Ingres paper has a high rag content (around 65%) and is gelatin sized. It is available in a variety of colors.\n"}
{"id": "9737428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9737428", "title": "International Journal of Hydrogen Energy", "text": "International Journal of Hydrogen Energy\n\nThe International Journal of Hydrogen Energy is a peer-reviewed scientific journal covering all aspects of hydrogen energy, including hydrogen generation and storage. It is published by Elsevier and is an official journal of the International Association for Hydrogen Energy. Established in 1976, the journal became monthly in 1982, biweekly in 2008, 36/yr in 2013 and weekly in 2015. The editor in chief is Turhan Nejat Veziroğlu (University of Miami).\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in:\n\nAccording to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2016 impact factor of 3.582.\n\n"}
{"id": "14734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14734", "title": "Iron", "text": "Iron\n\nIron is a chemical element with symbol Fe (from ) and atomic number 26. It is a metal in the first transition series. It is by mass the most common element on Earth, forming much of Earth's outer and inner core. It is the fourth most common element in the Earth's crust. Its abundance in rocky planets like Earth is due to its abundant production by fusion in high-mass stars, where it is the last element to be produced with release of energy before the violent collapse of a supernova, which scatters the iron into space.\n\nLike the other group 8 elements, ruthenium and osmium, iron exists in a wide range of oxidation states, −2 to +7, although +2 and +3 are the most common. Elemental iron occurs in meteoroids and other low oxygen environments, but is reactive to oxygen and water. Fresh iron surfaces appear lustrous silvery-gray, but oxidize in normal air to give hydrated iron oxides, commonly known as rust. Unlike the metals that form passivating oxide layers, iron oxides occupy more volume than the metal and thus flake off, exposing fresh surfaces for corrosion.\n\nIron metal has been used since ancient times, although copper alloys, which have lower melting temperatures, were used even earlier in human history. Pure iron is relatively soft, but is unobtainable by smelting because it is significantly hardened and strengthened by impurities, in particular carbon, from the smelting process. A certain proportion of carbon (between 0.002% and 2.1%) produces steel, which may be up to 1000 times harder than pure iron. Crude iron metal is produced in blast furnaces, where ore is reduced by coke to pig iron, which has a high carbon content. Further refinement with oxygen reduces the carbon content to the correct proportion to make steel. Steels and iron alloys formed with other metals (alloy steels) are by far the most common industrial metals because they have a great range of desirable properties and iron-bearing rock is abundant.\n\nIron chemical compounds have many uses. Iron oxide mixed with aluminium powder can be ignited to create a thermite reaction, used in welding and purifying ores. Iron forms binary compounds with the halogens and the chalcogens. Among its organometallic compounds is ferrocene, the first sandwich compound discovered.\n\nIron plays an important role in biology, forming complexes with molecular oxygen in hemoglobin and myoglobin; these two compounds are common oxygen transport proteins in vertebrates. Iron is also the metal at the active site of many important redox enzymes dealing with cellular respiration and oxidation and reduction in plants and animals. In adult human males are some 3.8 grams of iron, and 2.3 grams in females, for whom iron is distributed in hemoglobin and throughout the body. Iron is a critical element in the metabolism of hundreds of proteins and enzymes involved in diverse body functions, such as oxygen transport, DNA synthesis, and cell growth.\n\nThe mechanical properties of iron and its alloys can be evaluated using a variety of tests, including the Brinell test, Rockwell test and the Vickers hardness test. The data on iron is so consistent that it is often used to calibrate measurements or to compare tests. However, the mechanical properties of iron are significantly affected by the sample's purity: pure, single crystals of iron are actually softer than aluminium, and the purest industrially produced iron (99.99%) has a hardness of 20–30 Brinell. An increase in the carbon content will cause a significant increase in the hardness and tensile strength of iron. Maximum hardness of 65 R is achieved with a 0.6% carbon content, although the alloy has low tensile strength. Because of the softness of iron, it is much easier to work with than its heavier congeners ruthenium and osmium.\n\nBecause of its significance for planetary cores, the physical properties of iron at high pressures and temperatures have also been studied extensively. The form of iron that is stable under standard conditions can be subjected to pressures up to ca. 15 GPa before transforming into a high-pressure form, as described in the next section.\n\nIron represents an example of allotropy in a metal. At least four allotropic forms of iron are known as α, γ, δ, and ε; at very high pressures and temperatures, some controversial experimental evidence exists for a stable β phase.\n\nAs molten iron cools past its freezing point of 1538 °C, it crystallizes into its δ allotrope, which has a body-centered cubic (bcc) crystal structure. As it cools further to 1394 °C, it changes to its γ-iron allotrope, a face-centered cubic (fcc) crystal structure, or austenite. At 912 °C and below, the crystal structure again becomes the bcc α-iron allotrope. Finally, at 770 °C (the Curie point, T) iron's magnetic ordering changes from paramagnetic to ferromagnetic. As it passes through the Curie temperature, iron does not change its structure, but \"magnetic domains\" appear, where each domain contains iron atoms with a particular electronic spin. In unmagnetized iron, all the electronic spins of the atoms within one domain have the same axis orientation; however, the electrons of neighboring domains have other orientations with the result of mutual cancellation and no magnetic field. In magnetized iron, the electronic spins of the domains are aligned and the magnetic effects are reinforced. Although each domain contains billions of atoms, they are very small, about 10 micrometres across. This happens because the two unpaired electrons on each iron atom are in the d and d orbitals, which do not point directly at the nearest neighbors in the body-centered cubic lattice and therefore do not participate in metallic bonding; thus, they can interact magnetically with each other so that their spins align.\n\nAt pressures above approximately 10 GPa and temperatures of a few hundred kelvin or less, α-iron changes into a hexagonal close-packed (hcp) structure, which is also known as ε-iron; the higher-temperature γ-phase also changes into ε-iron, but does so at higher pressure. The β-phase, if it exists, would appear at pressures of at least 50 GPa and temperatures of at least 1500 K and have an orthorhombic or a double hcp structure. These high-pressure phases of iron are important as endmember models for the solid parts of planetary cores. The inner core of the Earth is generally presumed to be an iron-nickel alloy with ε (or β) structure. Somewhat confusingly, the term \"β-iron\" is sometimes also used to refer to α-iron above its Curie point, when it changes from being ferromagnetic to paramagnetic, even though its crystal structure has not changed.\n\nThe melting point of iron is experimentally well defined for pressures less than 50 GPa. For greater pressures, studies put the γ-ε-liquid triple point at pressures that differ by tens of gigapascals and 1000 K in the melting point. Generally speaking, molecular dynamics computer simulations of iron melting and shock wave experiments suggest higher melting points and a much steeper slope of the melting curve than static experiments carried out in diamond anvil cells. The melting and boiling points of iron, along with its enthalpy of atomization, are lower than those of the earlier 3d elements from scandium to chromium, showing the lessened contribution of the 3d electrons to metallic bonding as they are attracted more and more into the inert core by the nucleus; however, they are higher than the values for the previous element manganese because that element has a half-filled 3d subshell and consequently its d-electrons are not easily delocalized. This same trend appears for ruthenium but not osmium.\n\nNaturally occurring iron consists of four stable isotopes: 5.845% of Fe, 91.754% of Fe, 2.119% of Fe and 0.282% of Fe. Of these stable isotopes, only Fe has a nuclear spin (−). The nuclide Fe theoretically can undergo double electron capture to Cr, but the process has never been observed and only a lower limit on the half-life of 3.1×10 years has been established.\n\nFe is an extinct radionuclide of long half-life (2.6 million years). It is not found on Earth, but its ultimate decay product is its granddaughter, the stable nuclide Ni. Much of the past work on isotopic composition of iron has focused on the nucleosynthesis of Fe through studies of meteorites and ore formation. In the last decade, advances in mass spectrometry have allowed the detection and quantification of minute, naturally occurring variations in the ratios of the stable isotopes of iron. Much of this work is driven by the Earth and planetary science communities, although applications to biological and industrial systems are emerging.\n\nIn phases of the meteorites \"Semarkona\" and \"Chervony Kut,\" a correlation between the concentration of Ni, the granddaughter of Fe, and the abundance of the stable iron isotopes provided evidence for the existence of Fe at the time of formation of the Solar System. Possibly the energy released by the decay of Fe, along with that released by Al, contributed to the remelting and differentiation of asteroids after their formation 4.6 billion years ago. The abundance of Ni present in extraterrestrial material may bring further insight into the origin and early history of the Solar System.\n\nThe most abundant iron isotope Fe is of particular interest to nuclear scientists because it represents the most common endpoint of nucleosynthesis. Since Ni (14 alpha particles) is easily produced from lighter nuclei in the alpha process in nuclear reactions in supernovae (see silicon burning process), it is the endpoint of fusion chains inside extremely massive stars, since addition of another alpha particle, resulting in Zn, requires a great deal more energy. This Ni, which has a half-life of about 6 days, is created in quantity in these stars, but soon decays by two successive positron emissions within supernova decay products in the supernova remnant gas cloud, first to radioactive Co, and then to stable Fe. As such, iron is the most abundant element in the core of red giants, and is the most abundant metal in iron meteorites and in the dense metal cores of planets such as Earth. It is also very common in the universe, relative to other stable metals of approximately the same atomic weight. Iron is the sixth most abundant element in the Universe, and the most common refractory element.\n\nAlthough a further tiny energy gain could be extracted by synthesizing Ni, which has a marginally higher binding energy than Fe, conditions in stars are unsuitable for this process. Element production in supernovas and distribution on Earth greatly favor iron over nickel, and in any case, Fe still has a lower mass per nucleon than Ni due to its higher fraction of lighter protons. Hence, elements heavier than iron require a supernova for their formation, involving rapid neutron capture by starting Fe nuclei.\n\nIn the far future of the universe, assuming that proton decay does not occur, cold fusion occurring via quantum tunnelling would cause the light nuclei in ordinary matter to fuse into Fe nuclei. Fission and alpha-particle emission would then make heavy nuclei decay into iron, converting all stellar-mass objects to cold spheres of pure iron.\n\nMetallic or native iron is rarely found on the surface of the Earth because it tends to oxidize, but its oxides are pervasive and represent the primary ores. While it makes up about 5% of the Earth's crust, both the Earth's inner and outer core are believed to consist largely of an iron-nickel alloy constituting 35% of the mass of the Earth as a whole. Iron is consequently the most abundant element on Earth, but only the fourth most abundant element in the Earth's crust, after oxygen, silicon, and aluminium. Most of the iron in the crust is found combined with oxygen as iron oxide minerals such as hematite (FeO), magnetite (FeO), and siderite (FeCO). Many igneous rocks also contain the sulfide minerals pyrrhotite and pentlandite.\n\nFerropericlase (Mg,Fe)O, a solid solution of periclase (MgO) and wüstite (FeO), makes up about 20% of the volume of the lower mantle of the Earth, which makes it the second most abundant mineral phase in that region after silicate perovskite (Mg,Fe)SiO; it also is the major host for iron in the lower mantle. At the bottom of the transition zone of the mantle, the reaction γ-(Mg,Fe)[SiO] ↔ (Mg,Fe)[SiO] + (Mg,Fe)O transforms γ-olivine into a mixture of perovskite and ferropericlase and vice versa. In the literature, this mineral phase of the lower mantle is also often called magnesiowüstite. Silicate perovskite may form up to 93% of the lower mantle, and the magnesium iron form, (Mg,Fe)SiO, is considered to be the most abundant mineral in the Earth, making up 38% of its volume.\n\nLarge deposits of iron are found in banded iron formations. These geological formations are a type of rock consisting of repeated thin layers of iron oxides alternating with bands of iron-poor shale and chert. The banded iron formations were laid down in the time between and .\n\nThe mentioned iron compounds have been used as pigments (compare ochre) since historical time and contribute as well to the color of various geological formations, e.g. the Buntsandstein (British Bunter, colored sandstein). In the case of the Eisensandstein (a jurassic 'iron sandstone', e.g. from Donzdorf) in Germany and Bath stone in the UK, iron pigments contribute to the yellowish color of large amounts of historical buildings and sculptures. The proverbial red color of the surface of Mars is derived from an iron oxide-rich regolith.\n\nSignificant amounts of iron occur in the iron sulfide mineral pyrite (FeS), but it is difficult to extract iron from it and it is therefore not used. In fact, iron is so common that production generally focuses only on ores with very high quantities of it. During weathering, iron tends to leach from sulfide deposits as the sulfate and from silicate deposits as the bicarbonate. Both of these are oxidized in aqueous solution and precipitate in even mildly elevated pH as iron(III) oxide.\n\nAbout 1 in 20 meteorites consist of the unique iron-nickel minerals taenite (35–80% iron) and kamacite (90–95% iron). Although rare, iron meteorites are the main form of natural metallic iron on the Earth's surface. According to the International Resource Panel's Metal Stocks in Society report, the global stock of iron in use in society is 2200 kg per capita. More-developed countries differ in this respect from less-developed countries (7000–14000 vs 2000 kg per capita).\n\nIron shows the characteristic chemical properties of the transition metals, namely the ability to form variable oxidation states differing by steps of one and a very large coordination and organometallic chemistry: indeed, it was the discovery of an iron compound, ferrocene, that revolutionalized the latter field in the 1950s. Iron is sometimes considered as a prototype for the entire block of transition metals, due to its abundance and the immense role it has played in the technological progress of humanity. Its 26 electrons are arranged in the configuration [Ar]3d4s, of which the 3d and 4s electrons are relatively close in energy, and thus it can lose a variable number of electrons and there is no clear point where further ionization becomes unprofitable.\n\nIron forms compounds mainly in the +2 and +3 oxidation states. Traditionally, iron(II) compounds are called ferrous, and iron(III) compounds ferric. Iron also occurs in higher oxidation states, e.g. the purple potassium ferrate (KFeO), which contains iron in its +6 oxidation state. Although iron(VIII) oxide (FeO) has been claimed, the report could not be reproduced and such a species (at least with iron in its +8 oxidation state) has been found to be improbable computationally. However, one form of anionic [FeO] with iron in its +7 oxidation state, along with an iron(V)-peroxo isomer, has been detected by infrared spectroscopy at 4 K after cocondensation of laser-ablated Fe atoms with a mixture of O/Ar. Iron(IV) is a common intermediate in many biochemical oxidation reactions. Numerous organoiron compounds contain formal oxidation states of +1, 0, −1, or even −2. The oxidation states and other bonding properties are often assessed using the technique of Mössbauer spectroscopy.\nMany mixed valence compounds contain both iron(II) and iron(III) centers, such as magnetite and Prussian blue (Fe(Fe[CN])). The latter is used as the traditional \"blue\" in blueprints.\n\nIron is the first of the transition metals that cannot reach its group oxidation state of +8, although its heavier congeners ruthenium and osmium can, with ruthenium having more difficulty than osmium. Ruthenium exhibits an aqueous cationic chemistry in its low oxidation states similar to that of iron, but osmium does not, favoring high oxidation states in which it forms anionic complexes. In the second half of the 3d transition series, vertical similarities down the groups compete with the horizontal similarities of iron with its neighbors cobalt and nickel in the periodic table, which are also ferromagnetic at room temperature and share similar chemistry. As such, iron, cobalt, and nickel are sometimes grouped together as the iron triad.\nThe iron compounds produced on the largest scale in industry are iron(II) sulfate (FeSO·7HO) and iron(III) chloride (FeCl). The former is one of the most readily available sources of iron(II), but is less stable to aerial oxidation than Mohr's salt ((NH)Fe(SO)·6HO). Iron(II) compounds tend to be oxidized to iron(III) compounds in the air.\n\nUnlike many other metals, iron does not form amalgams with mercury. As a result, mercury is traded in standardized 76 pound flasks (34 kg) made of iron.\n\nIron is by far the most reactive element in its group; it is pyrophoric when finely divided and dissolves easily in dilute acids, giving Fe. However, it does not react with concentrated nitric acid and other oxidizing acids due to the formation of an impervious oxide layer, which can nevertheless react with hydrochloric acid.\n\nIron reacts with oxygen in the air to form various oxide and hydroxide compounds; the most common are iron(II,III) oxide (FeO), and iron(III) oxide (FeO). Iron(II) oxide also exists, though it is unstable at room temperature. Despite their names, they are actually all non-stoichiometric compounds whose compositions may vary. These oxides are the principal ores for the production of iron (see bloomery and blast furnace). They are also used in the production of ferrites, useful magnetic storage media in computers, and pigments. The best known sulfide is iron pyrite (FeS), also known as fool's gold owing to its golden luster. It is not an iron(IV) compound, but is actually an iron(II) polysulfide containing Fe and ions in a distorted sodium chloride structure.\nThe binary ferrous and ferric halides are well-known, with the exception of ferric iodide. The ferrous halides typically arise from treating iron metal with the corresponding hydrohalic acid to give the corresponding hydrated salts.\nIron reacts with fluorine, chlorine, and bromine to give the corresponding ferric halides, ferric chloride being the most common.\nFerric iodide is an exception, being thermodynamically unstable due to the oxidizing power of Fe and the high reducing power of I:\n\nNevertheless, milligram amounts of ferric iodide, a black solid, may still be prepared through the reaction of iron pentacarbonyl with iodine and carbon monoxide in the presence of hexane and light at the temperature of −20 °C, making sure that the system is well sealed off from air and water.\n\nThe standard reduction potentials in acidic aqueous solution for some common iron ions are given below:\nThe red-purple tetrahedral ferrate(VI) anion is such a strong oxidizing agent that it oxidizes nitrogen and ammonia at room temperature, and even water itself in acidic or neutral solutions:\n\nThe Fe ion has a large simple cationic chemistry, although the pale-violet hexaquo ion [Fe(HO)] is very readily hydrolyzed when pH increases above 0 as follows:\n\nAs pH rises above 0 the above yellow hydrolyzed species form and as it rises above 2–3, reddish-brown hydrous iron(III) oxide precipitates out of solution. Although Fe has an d configuration, its absorption spectrum is not like that of Mn with its weak, spin-forbidden d–d bands, because Fe has higher positive charge and is more polarizing, lowering the energy of its ligand-to-metal charge transfer absorptions. Thus, all the above complexes are rather strongly colored, with the single exception of the hexaquo ion – and even that has a spectrum dominated by charge transfer in the near ultraviolet region. On the other hand, the pale green iron(II) hexaquo ion [Fe(HO)] does not undergo appreciable hydrolysis. Carbon dioxide is not evolved when carbonate anions are added, which instead results in white iron(II) carbonate being precipitated out. In excess carbon dioxide this forms the slightly soluble bicarbonate, which occurs commonly in groundwater, but it oxidises quickly in air to form iron(III) oxide that accounts for the brown deposits present in a sizeable number of streams.\n\nMany coordination compounds of iron are known. A typical six-coordinate anion is hexachloroferrate(III), [FeCl], found in the mixed salt tetrakis(methylammonium) hexachloroferrate(III) chloride. Complexes with multiple bidentate ligands have geometric isomers. For example, the \"trans\"-chlorohydridobis(bis-1,2-(diphenylphosphino)ethane)iron(II) complex is used as a starting material for compounds with the Fe(dppe) moiety. The ferrioxalate ion with three oxalate ligands (shown at right) displays helical chirality with its two non-superposable geometries labelled \"Λ\" (lambda) for the left-handed screw axis and \"Δ\" (delta) for the right-handed screw axis, in line with IUPAC conventions. Potassium ferrioxalate is used in chemical actinometry and along with its sodium salt undergoes photoreduction applied in old-style photographic processes. The dihydrate of iron(II) oxalate has a polymeric structure with co-planar oxalate ions bridging between iron centres with the water of crystallisation located forming the caps of each octahedron, as illustrated below.\n\nPrussian blue, Fe[Fe(CN)], is the most famous of the cyanide complexes of iron. Its formation can be used as a simple wet chemistry test to distinguish between aqueous solutions of Fe and Fe as they react (respectively) with potassium ferricyanide and potassium ferrocyanide to form Prussian blue.\nIron(III) complexes are quite similar to those of chromium(III) with the exception of iron(III)'s preference for \"O\"-donor instead of \"N\"-donor ligands. The latter tend to be rather more unstable than iron(II) complexes and often dissociate in water. Many Fe–O complexes show intense colors and are used as tests for phenols or enols. For example, in the ferric chloride test, used to determine the presence of phenols, iron(III) chloride reacts with a phenol to form a deep violet complex:\n\nAmong the halide and pseudohalide complexes, fluoro complexes of iron(III) are the most stable, with the colorless [FeF(HO)] being the most stable in aqueous solution. Chloro complexes are less stable and favor tetrahedral coordination as in [FeCl]; [FeBr] and [FeI] are reduced easily to iron(II). Thiocyanate is a common test for the presence of iron(III) as it forms the blood-red [Fe(SCN)(HO)]. Like manganese(II), most iron(III) complexes are high-spin, the exceptions being those with ligands that are high in the spectrochemical series such as cyanide. An example of a low-spin iron(III) complex is [Fe(CN)]. The cyanide ligands may easily be detached in [Fe(CN)], and hence this complex is poisonous, unlike the iron(II) complex [Fe(CN)] found in Prussian blue, which does not release hydrogen cyanide except when dilute acids are added. Iron shows a great variety of electronic spin states, including every possible spin quantum number value for a d-block element from 0 (diamagnetic) to (5 unpaired electrons). This value is always half the number of unpaired electrons. Complexes with zero to two unpaired electrons are considered low-spin and those with four or five are considered high-spin.\n\nIron(II) complexes are less stable than iron(III) complexes but the preference for \"O\"-donor ligands is less marked, so that for example [Fe(NH)] is known while [Fe(NH)] is not. They have a tendency to be oxidized to iron(III) but this can be moderated by low pH and the specific ligands used.\n\nCyanide complexes are technically organometallic but more important are carbonyl complexes and sandwich and half-sandwich compounds. The premier iron(0) compound is iron pentacarbonyl, Fe(CO), which is used to produce carbonyl iron powder, a highly reactive form of metallic iron. Thermolysis of iron pentacarbonyl gives the trinuclear cluster, triiron dodecacarbonyl. Collman's reagent, disodium tetracarbonylferrate, is a useful reagent for organic chemistry; it contains iron in the −2 oxidation state. Cyclopentadienyliron dicarbonyl dimer contains iron in the rare +1 oxidation state.\n\nFerrocene was an extremely important compound in the early history of the branch of organometallic chemistry, and to this day iron is still one of the most important metals in this field. It was first synthesised in 1951 during an attempt to prepare the fulvalene (CH) by oxidative dimerization of cyclopentadiene; the resultant product was found to have molecular formula CHFe and reported to exhibit \"remarkable stability\". The discovery sparked substantial interest in the field of organometallic chemistry, in part because the structure proposed by Pauson and Kealy (shown at right) was inconsistent with then-existing bonding models and did not explain its unexpected stability. Consequently, the initial challenge was to definitively determine the structure of ferrocene in the hope that its bonding and properties would then be understood. The shockingly novel sandwich structure, [Fe(η-CH)], was deduced and reported independently by three groups in 1952: Robert Burns Woodward and Geoffrey Wilkinson investigated the reactivity in order to determine the structure and demonstrated that ferrocene undergoes similar reactions to a typical aromatic molecule (such as benzene), Ernst Otto Fischer deduced the sandwich structure and also began synthesising other metallocenes including cobaltocene; Eiland and Pepinsky provided X-ray crystallographic confirmation of the sandwich structure.\n\nApplying valence bond theory to ferrocene by considering an Fe centre and two cyclopentadienide anions (CH), which are known to be aromatic according to Hückel's rule and hence highly stable, allowed correct prediction of the geometry of the molecule. Once molecular orbital theory was successfully applied and the Dewar-Chatt-Duncanson model proposed, the reasons for ferrocene's remarkable stability became clear. Ferrocene was not the first organometallic compound known – Zeise's salt, K[PtCl(CH)]·HO was reported in 1831 and Mond's discovery of Ni(CO) occurred in 1888, but it was ferrocene's discovery that began organometallic chemistry as a separate area of chemistry. It was so important that Wilkinson and Fischer shared the 1973 Nobel Prize for Chemistry \"for their pioneering work, performed independently, on the chemistry of the organometallic, so called sandwich compounds\". Ferrocene itself can be used as the backbone of a ligand, e.g. 1,1'-bis(diphenylphosphino)ferrocene (dppf). Ferrocene can itself be oxidized to the ferrocenium cation (Fc); the ferrocene/ferrocenium couple is often used as a reference in electrochemistry.\n\nMetallocenes like ferrocene can be prepared by reaction of freshly-cracked cyclopentadiene with iron(II) chloride and base. It is an aromatic substance and undergoes substitution reactions rather than addition reactions on the cyclopentadienyl ligands. For example, Friedel-Crafts acylation of ferrocene with acetic anhydride yields acetylferrocene just as acylation of benzene yields acetophenone under similar conditions.\n\nIron-centered organometallic species are used as catalysts. The Knölker complex, for example, is a transfer hydrogenation catalyst for ketones.\n\nAs iron has been in use for such a long time, it has many different names in different languages. The source of its chemical symbol \"Fe\" is the Latin word \"ferrum\", and its descendants are the names of the element in the Romance languages (for example, French \"fer\", Spanish \"hierro\", and Italian and Portuguese \"ferro\"). The word \"ferrum\" itself possibly comes from the Semitic languages, via Etruscan, from a root that also gave rise to Old English \"bræs\" \"brass\". The English word \"iron\" derives ultimately from Proto-Germanic \"*isarnan\", which is also the source of the German name \"Eisen\". It was most likely borrowed from Celtic \"*isarnon\", which ultimately comes from Proto-Indo-European \"*is-(e)ro-\" \"powerful, holy\" and finally \"*eis\" \"strong\", referencing iron's strength as a metal. Kluge relates \"*isarnon\" to Illyric and Latin \"ira\", 'wrath'). The Balto-Slavic names for iron (for example, Russian \"железо\" [\"zhelezo\"], Polish \"żelazo\", Lithuanian \"geležis\") are the only ones to come directly from the Proto-Indo-European \"*gelg-\" \"iron\". In many of these languages, the word for \"iron\" may also be used to denote other objects made of iron or steel, or figuratively because of the hardness and strength of the metal. The Chinese \"tiě\" (traditional 鐵; simplified 铁) derives from Proto-Sino-Tibetan \"*hliek\", and was borrowed into Japanese as 鉄 \"tetsu\", which also has the native reading \"kurogane\" \"black metal\" (similar to how iron is referenced in the English word blacksmith).\n\nIron is one of the elements undoubtedly known to the ancient world. It has been worked, or wrought, for millennia. However, iron objects of great age are much rarer than objects made of gold or silver due to the ease with which iron corrodes.\n\nBeads made from meteoric iron in 3500 BC or earlier were found in Gerzah, Egypt by G. A. Wainwright. The beads contain 7.5% nickel, which is a signature of meteoric origin since iron found in the Earth's crust generally has only minuscule nickel impurities. Meteoric iron was highly regarded due to its origin in the heavens and was often used to forge weapons and tools. For example, a dagger made of meteoric iron was found in the tomb of Tutankhamun, containing similar proportions of iron, cobalt, and nickel to a meteorite discovered in the area, deposited by an ancient meteor shower. Items that were likely made of iron by Egyptians date from 3000 to 2500 BC. Meteoritic iron is comparably soft and ductile and easily forged by cold working but may get brittle when heated because of the nickel content.\n\nThe first iron production started in the Middle Bronze Age but it took several centuries before iron displaced bronze. Samples of smelted iron from Asmar, Mesopotamia and Tall Chagar Bazaar in northern Syria were made sometime between 3000 and 2700 BC. The Hittites established an empire in north-central Anatolia around 1600 BC. They appear to be the first to understand the production of iron from its ores and regard it highly in their society. The Hittites began to smelt iron between 1500 and 1200 BC and the practice spread to the rest of the Near East after their empire fell in 1180 BC. The subsequent period is called the Iron Age.\n\nArtifacts of smelted iron are found in India dating from 1800 to 1200 BC, and in the Levant from about 1500 BC (suggesting smelting in Anatolia or the Caucasus). Alleged references (compare history of metallurgy in South Asia) to iron in the Indian Vedas have been used for claims of a very early usage of iron in India respectively to date the texts as such. The rigveda term \"ayas\" (metal) probably refers to copper and bronze, while iron or \"śyāma ayas\", literally \"black metal\", first is mentioned in the post-rigvedic Atharvaveda.\n\nSome archaeological evidence suggests iron was smelted in Zimbabwe and southeast Africa as early as the eighth century BC. Iron working was introduced to Greece in the late 11th century BC, from which it spread quickly throughout Europe.\n\nThe spread of ironworking in Central and Western Europe is associated with Celtic expansion. According to Pliny the Elder, iron use was common in the Roman era. The annual iron output of the Roman Empire is estimated at t, while the similarly populous and contemporary Han China produced around t. In China, iron only appears circa 700–500 BC. Iron smelting may have been introduced into China through Central Asia. The earliest evidence of the use of a blast furnace in China dates to the 1st century AD, and cupola furnaces were used as early as the Warring States period (403–221 BC). Usage of the blast and cupola furnace remained widespread during the Song and Tang Dynasties.\n\nDuring the Industrial Revolution in Britain, Henry Cort began refining iron from pig iron to wrought iron (or bar iron) using innovative production systems. In 1783 he patented the puddling process for refining iron ore. It was later improved by others, including Joseph Hall.\n\nCast iron was first produced in China during 5th century BC, but was hardly in Europe until the medieval period. The earliest cast iron artifacts were discovered by archaeologists in what is now modern Luhe County, Jiangsu in China. Cast iron was used in ancient China for warfare, agriculture, and architecture. During the medieval period, means were found in Europe of producing wrought iron from cast iron (in this context known as pig iron) using finery forges. For all these processes, charcoal was required as fuel.\n\nMedieval blast furnaces were about tall and made of fireproof brick; forced air was usually provided by hand-operated bellows. Modern blast furnaces have grown much bigger, with hearths fourteen meters in diameter that allow them to produce thousands of tons of iron each day, but essentially operate in much the same way as they did during medieval times.\n\nIn 1709, Abraham Darby I established a coke-fired blast furnace to produce cast iron, replacing charcoal, although continuing to use blast furnaces. The ensuing availability of inexpensive iron was one of the factors leading to the Industrial Revolution. Toward the end of the 18th century, cast iron began to replace wrought iron for certain purposes, because it was cheaper. Carbon content in iron was not implicated as the reason for the differences in properties of wrought iron, cast iron, and steel until the 18th century.\n\nSince iron was becoming cheaper and more plentiful, it also became a major structural material following the building of the innovative first iron bridge in 1778. This bridge still stands today as a monument to the role iron played in the Industrial Revolution. Following this, iron was used in rails, boats, ships, aqueducts, and buildings, as well as in iron cylinders in steam engines. Railways have been central to the formation of modernity and ideas of progress and various languages (e.g. French, Spanish, Italian and German) refer to railways as \"iron road\".\n\nSteel (with smaller carbon content than pig iron but more than wrought iron) was first produced in antiquity by using a bloomery. Blacksmiths in Luristan in western Persia were making good steel by 1000 BC. Then improved versions, Wootz steel by India and Damascus steel were developed around 300 BC and AD 500 respectively. These methods were specialized, and so steel did not become a major commodity until the 1850s.\n\nNew methods of producing it by carburizing bars of iron in the cementation process were devised in the 17th century. In the Industrial Revolution, new methods of producing bar iron without charcoal were devised and these were later applied to produce steel. In the late 1850s, Henry Bessemer invented a new steelmaking process, involving blowing air through molten pig iron, to produce mild steel. This made steel much more economical, thereby leading to wrought iron no longer being produced in large quantities.\n\nIn 1774, Antoine Lavoisier used the reaction of water steam with metallic iron inside an incandescent iron tube to produce hydrogen in his experiments leading to the demonstration of the conservation of mass, which was instrumental in changing chemistry from a qualitative science to a quantitative one.\n\nIron plays a certain role in mythology and has found various usage as a metaphor and in folklore. The Greek poet Hesiod's \"Works and Days\" (lines 109–201) lists different ages of man named after metals like gold, silver, bronze and iron to account for successive ages of humanity. The Iron Age was closely related with Rome, and in Ovid's \"Metamorphoses\"\n\nAn example of the importance of iron's symbolic role may be found in the German Campaign of 1813. Frederick William III commissioned then the first Iron Cross as military decoration. Berlin iron jewellery reached its peak production between 1813 and 1815, when the Prussian royal family urged citizens to donate gold and silver jewellery for military funding. The inscription \"Gold gab ich für Eisen\" (I gave gold for iron) was used as well in later war efforts.\n\nThe production of iron or steel is a process consisting of two main stages. In the first stage pig iron is produced in a blast furnace. Alternatively, it may be directly reduced. In the second stage, pig iron is converted to wrought iron, steel, or cast iron.\n\nFor a few limited purposes when it is needed, pure iron is produced in the laboratory in small quantities by reducing the pure oxide or hydroxide with hydrogen, or forming iron pentacarbonyl and heating it to 250 °C so that it decomposes to form pure iron powder. Another method is electrolysis of ferrous chloride onto an iron cathode.\n\nIndustrial iron production starts with iron ores, principally hematite, which has a nominal formula FeO, and magnetite, with the formula FeO. These ores are reduced to the metal in a carbothermic reaction, i.e. by treatment with carbon. The conversion is typically conducted in a blast furnace at temperatures of about 2000 °C. Carbon is provided in the form of coke. The process also contains a flux such as limestone, which is used to remove silicaceous minerals in the ore, which would otherwise clog the furnace. The coke and limestone are fed into the top of the furnace, while a massive blast of air heated to 900 °C, about 4 tons per ton of iron, is forced into the furnace at the bottom.\n\nIn the furnace, the coke reacts with oxygen in the air blast to produce carbon monoxide:\n\nThe carbon monoxide reduces the iron ore (in the chemical equation below, hematite) to molten iron, becoming carbon dioxide in the process:\n\nSome iron in the high-temperature lower region of the furnace reacts directly with the coke:\n\nThe flux present to melt impurities in the ore is principally limestone (calcium carbonate) and dolomite (calcium-magnesium carbonate). Other specialized fluxes are used depending on the details of the ore. In the heat of the furnace the limestone flux decomposes to calcium oxide (also known as quicklime):\n\nThen calcium oxide combines with silicon dioxide to form a liquid slag.\n\nThe slag melts in the heat of the furnace. In the bottom of the furnace, the molten slag floats on top of the denser molten iron, and apertures in the side of the furnace are opened to run off the iron and the slag separately. The iron, once cooled, is called pig iron, while the slag can be used as a material in road construction or to improve mineral-poor soils for agriculture.\nOwing to environmental concerns, alternative methods of processing iron have been developed. \"Direct iron reduction\" reduces iron ore to a ferrous lump called \"sponge\" iron or \"direct\" iron that is suitable for steelmaking. Two main reactions comprise the direct reduction process:\n\nNatural gas is partially oxidized (with heat and a catalyst):\n\nThese gases are then treated with iron ore in a furnace, producing solid sponge iron:\n\nSilica is removed by adding a limestone flux as described above.\n\nIron is a byproduct of burning a mixture of aluminum powder and rust powder.\n\nPig iron is not pure iron, but has 4–5% carbon dissolved in it with small amounts of other impurities like sulfur, magnesium, phosphorus and manganese. As the carbon is the major impurity, the iron (pig iron) becomes brittle and hard. Removing the other impurities results in cast iron, which is used to cast articles in foundries such as stoves, pipes, radiators, lamp-posts and rails.\n\nAlternatively pig iron may be made into steel (with up to about 2% carbon) or wrought iron (commercially pure iron). Various processes have been used for this, including finery forges, puddling furnaces, Bessemer converters, open hearth furnaces, basic oxygen furnaces, and electric arc furnaces. In all cases, the objective is to oxidize some or all of the carbon, together with other impurities. On the other hand, other metals may be added to make alloy steels.\n\nAnnealing involves the heating of a piece of steel to 700–800 °C for several hours and then gradual cooling. It makes the steel softer and more workable.\n\nIron is the most widely used of all the metals, accounting for over 90% of worldwide metal production. Its low cost and high strength make it indispensable in engineering applications such as the construction of machinery and machine tools, automobiles, the hulls of large ships, and structural components for buildings. Since pure iron is quite soft, it is most commonly combined with alloying elements to make steel.\n\nα-Iron is a fairly soft metal that can dissolve only a small concentration of carbon (no more than 0.021% by mass at 910 °C). Austenite (γ-iron) is similarly soft and metallic but can dissolve considerably more carbon (as much as 2.04% by mass at 1146 °C). This form of iron is used in the type of stainless steel used for making cutlery, and hospital and food-service equipment.\n\nCommercially available iron is classified based on purity and the abundance of additives. Pig iron has 3.5–4.5% carbon and contains varying amounts of contaminants such as sulfur, silicon and phosphorus. Pig iron is not a saleable product, but rather an intermediate step in the production of cast iron and steel. The reduction of contaminants in pig iron that negatively affect material properties, such as sulfur and phosphorus, yields cast iron containing 2–4% carbon, 1–6% silicon, and small amounts of manganese. Pig iron has a melting point in the range of 1420–1470 K, which is lower than either of its two main components, and makes it the first product to be melted when carbon and iron are heated together. Its mechanical properties vary greatly and depend on the form the carbon takes in the alloy.\n\n\"White\" cast irons contain their carbon in the form of cementite, or iron carbide (FeC). This hard, brittle compound dominates the mechanical properties of white cast irons, rendering them hard, but unresistant to shock. The broken surface of a white cast iron is full of fine facets of the broken iron-carbide, a very pale, silvery, shiny material, hence the appellation. Cooling a mixture of iron with 0.8% carbon slowly below 723 °C to room temperature results in separate, alternating layers of cementite and α-iron, which is soft and malleable and is called pearlite for its appearance. Rapid cooling, on the other hand, does not allow time for this separation and creates hard and brittle martensite. The steel can then be tempered by reheating to a temperature in between, changing the proportions of pearlite and martensite. The end product below 0.8% carbon content is a pearlite-αFe mixture, and that above 0.8% carbon content is a pearlite-cementite mixture.\n\nIn gray iron the carbon exists as separate, fine flakes of graphite, and also renders the material brittle due to the sharp edged flakes of graphite that produce stress concentration sites within the material. A newer variant of gray iron, referred to as ductile iron, is specially treated with trace amounts of magnesium to alter the shape of graphite to spheroids, or nodules, reducing the stress concentrations and vastly increasing the toughness and strength of the material.\n\nWrought iron contains less than 0.25% carbon but large amounts of slag that give it a fibrous characteristic. It is a tough, malleable product, but not as fusible as pig iron. If honed to an edge, it loses it quickly. Wrought iron is characterized by the presence of fine fibers of slag entrapped within the metal. Wrought iron is more corrosion resistant than steel. It has been almost completely replaced by mild steel for traditional \"wrought iron\" products and blacksmithing.\nMild steel corrodes more readily than wrought iron, but is cheaper and more widely available. Carbon steel contains 2.0% carbon or less, with small amounts of manganese, sulfur, phosphorus, and silicon. Alloy steels contain varying amounts of carbon as well as other metals, such as chromium, vanadium, molybdenum, nickel, tungsten, etc. Their alloy content raises their cost, and so they are usually only employed for specialist uses. One common alloy steel, though, is stainless steel. Recent developments in ferrous metallurgy have produced a growing range of microalloyed steels, also termed 'HSLA' or high-strength, low alloy steels, containing tiny additions to produce high strengths and often spectacular toughness at minimal cost.\nApart from traditional applications, iron is also used for protection from ionizing radiation. Although it is lighter than another traditional protection material, lead, it is much stronger mechanically. The attenuation of radiation as a function of energy is shown in the graph.\n\nThe main disadvantage of iron and steel is that pure iron, and most of its alloys, suffer badly from rust if not protected in some way, a cost amounting to over 1% of the world's economy. Painting, galvanization, passivation, plastic coating and bluing are all used to protect iron from rust by excluding water and oxygen or by cathodic protection. The mechanism of the rusting of iron is as follows:\n\nThe electrolyte is usually iron(II) sulfate in urban areas (formed when atmospheric sulfur dioxide attacks iron), and salt particles in the atmosphere in seaside areas.\n\nAlthough the dominant use of iron is in metallurgy, iron compounds are also pervasive in industry. Iron catalysts are traditionally used in the Haber-Bosch process for the production of ammonia and the Fischer-Tropsch process for conversion of carbon monoxide to hydrocarbons for fuels and lubricants. Powdered iron in an acidic solvent was used in the Bechamp reduction the reduction of nitrobenzene to aniline.\n\nIron(III) chloride finds use in water purification and sewage treatment, in the dyeing of cloth, as a coloring agent in paints, as an additive in animal feed, and as an etchant for copper in the manufacture of printed circuit boards. It can also be dissolved in alcohol to form tincture of iron, which is used as a medicine to stop bleeding in canaries.\n\nIron(II) sulfate is used as a precursor to other iron compounds. It is also used to reduce chromate in cement. It is used to fortify foods and treat iron deficiency anemia. Iron(III) sulfate is used in settling minute sewage particles in tank water. Iron(II) chloride is used as a reducing flocculating agent, in the formation of iron complexes and magnetic iron oxides, and as a reducing agent in organic synthesis.\n\nIron is required for life. The iron–sulfur clusters are pervasive and include nitrogenase, the enzymes responsible for biological nitrogen fixation. Iron-containing proteins participate in transport, storage and used of oxygen. Iron proteins are involved in electron transfer.\nExamples of iron-containing proteins in higher organisms include hemoglobin, cytochrome (see high-valent iron), and catalase. The average adult human contains about 0.005% body weight of iron, or about four grams, of which three quarters is in hemoglobin – a level that remains constant despite only about one milligram of iron being absorbed each day, because the human body recycles its hemoglobin for the iron content.\n\nIron acquisition poses a problem for aerobic organisms because ferric iron is poorly soluble near neutral pH. Thus, these organisms have developed means to absorb iron as complexes, sometimes taking up ferrous iron before oxidising it back to ferric iron. In particular, bacteria have evolved very high-affinity sequestering agents called siderophores.\n\nAfter uptake in human cells, iron storage is precisely regulated. A major component of this regulation is the protein transferrin, which binds iron ions absorbed from the duodenum and carries it in the blood to cells. Transferrin contains Fe in the middle of a distorted octahedron, bonded to one nitrogen, three oxygens and a chelating carbonate anion that traps the Fe ion: it has such a high stability constant that it is very effective at taking up Fe ions even from the most stable complexes. At the bone marrow, transferrin is reduced from Fe and Fe and stored as ferritin to be incorporated into hemoglobin. \n\nThe most commonly known and studied bioinorganic iron compounds (biological iron molecules) are the heme proteins: examples are hemoglobin, myoglobin, and cytochrome P450. These compounds participate in transporting gases, building enzymes, and transferring electrons. Metalloproteins are a group of proteins with metal ion cofactors. Some examples of iron metalloproteins are ferritin and rubredoxin. Many enzymes vital to life contain iron, such as catalase, lipoxygenases, and IRE-BP.\n\nHemoglobin is an oxygen carrier that occurs in red blood cells and contributes their color, transporting oxygen in the arteries from the lungs to the muscles where it is transferred to myoglobin, which stores it until it is needed for the metabolic oxidation of glucose, generating energy. Here the hemoglobin binds to carbon dioxide, produced when glucose is oxidized, which is transported through the veins by hemoglobin (predominantly as bicarbonate anions) back to the lungs where it is exhaled. In hemoglobin, the iron is in one of four heme groups and has six possible coordination sites; four are occupied by nitrogen atoms in a porphyrin ring, the fifth by an imidazole nitrogen in a histidine residue of one of the protein chains attached to the heme group, and the sixth is reserved for the oxygen molecule it can reversibly bind to. When hemoglobin is not attached to oxygen (and is then called deoxyhemoglobin), the Fe ion at the center of the heme group (in the hydrophobic protein interior) is in a high-spin configuration. It is thus too large to fit inside the porphyrin ring, which bends instead into a dome with the Fe ion about 55 picometers above it. In this configuration, the sixth coordination site reserved for the oxygen is blocked by another histidine residue.\n\nWhen deoxyhemoglobin picks up an oxygen molecule, this histidine residue moves away and returns once the oxygen is securely attached to form a hydrogen bond with it. This results in the Fe ion switching to a low-spin configuration, resulting in a 20% decrease in ionic radius so that now it can fit into the porphyrin ring, which becomes planar. (Additionally, this hydrogen bonding results in the tilting of the oxygen molecule, resulting in a Fe–O–O bond angle of around 120° that avoids the formation of Fe–O–Fe or Fe–O–Fe bridges that would lead to electron transfer, the oxidation of Fe to Fe, and the destruction of hemoglobin.) This results in a movement of all the protein chains that leads to the other subunits of hemoglobin changing shape to a form with larger oxygen affinity. Thus, when deoxyhemoglobin takes up oxygen, its affinity for more oxygen increases, and vice versa. Myoglobin, on the other hand, contains only one heme group and hence this cooperative effect cannot occur. Thus, while hemoglobin is almost saturated with oxygen in the high partial pressures of oxygen found in the lungs, its affinity for oxygen is much lower than that of myoglobin, which oxygenates even at low partial pressures of oxygen found in muscle tissue. As described by the Bohr effect (named after Christian Bohr, the father of Niels Bohr), the oxygen affinity of hemoglobin diminishes in the presence of carbon dioxide.\n\nCarbon monoxide and phosphorus trifluoride are poisonous to humans because they bind to hemoglobin similarly to oxygen, but with much more strength, so that oxygen can no longer be transported throughout the body. Hemoglobin bound to carbon monoxide is known as carboxyhemoglobin. This effect also plays a minor role in the toxicity of cyanide, but there the major effect is by far its interference with the proper functioning of the electron transport protein cytochrome a. The cytochrome proteins also involve heme groups and are involved in the metabolic oxidation of glucose by oxygen. The sixth coordination site is then occupied by either another imidazole nitrogen or a methionine sulfur, so that these proteins are largely inert to oxygen – with the exception of cytochrome a, which bonds directly to oxygen and thus is very easily poisoned by cyanide. Here, the electron transfer takes place as the iron remains in low spin but changes between the +2 and +3 oxidation states. Since the reduction potential of each step is slightly greater than the previous one, the energy is released step-by-step and can thus be stored in adenosine triphosphate. Cytochrome a is slightly distinct, as it occurs at the mitochondrial membrane, binds directly to oxygen, and transports protons as well as electrons, as follows:\n\nAlthough the heme proteins are the most important class of iron-containing proteins, the iron-sulfur proteins are also very important, being involved in electron transfer, which is possible since iron can exist stably in either the +2 or +3 oxidation states. These have one, two, four, or eight iron atoms that are each approximately tetrahedrally coordinated to four sulfur atoms; because of this tetrahedral coordination, they always have high-spin iron. The simplest of such compounds is rubredoxin, which has only one iron atom coordinated to four sulfur atoms from cysteine residues in the surrounding peptide chains. Another important class of iron-sulfur proteins is the ferredoxins, which have multiple iron atoms. Transferrin does not belong to either of these classes.\n\nThe ability of sea mussels to maintain their grip on rocks in the ocean is facilitated by their use of organometallic iron-based bonds in their protein-rich cuticles. Based on synthetic replicas, the presence of iron in these structures increased elastic modulus 770 times, tensile strength 58 times, and toughness 92 times. The amount of stress required to permanently damage them increased 76 times.\n\nIron is pervasive, but particularly rich sources of dietary iron include red meat, oysters, lentils, beans, poultry, fish, leaf vegetables, watercress, tofu, chickpeas, black-eyed peas, and blackstrap molasses. Bread and breakfast cereals are sometimes specifically fortified with iron.\n\nIron provided by dietary supplements is often found as iron(II) fumarate, although iron(II) sulfate is cheaper and is absorbed equally well. Elemental iron, or reduced iron, despite being absorbed at only one-third to two-thirds the efficiency (relative to iron sulfate), is often added to foods such as breakfast cereals or enriched wheat flour. Iron is most available to the body when chelated to amino acids and is also available for use as a common iron supplement. Glycine, the cheapest and most common amino acid is most often used to produce iron glycinate supplements.\n\nThe U.S. Institute of Medicine (IOM) updated Estimated Average Requirements (EARs) and Recommended Dietary Allowances (RDAs) for iron in 2001. The current EAR for iron for women ages 14–18 is 7.9 mg/day, 8.1 for ages 19–50 and 5.0 thereafter (post menopause). For men the EAR is 6.0 mg/day for ages 19 and up. The RDA is 15.0 mg/day for women ages 15–18, 18.0 for 19–50 and 8.0 thereafter. For men, 8.0 mg/day for ages 19 and up. RDAs are higher than EARs so as to identify amounts that will cover people with higher than average requirements. RDA for pregnancy is 27 mg/day and, for lactation, 9 mg/day. For children ages 1–3 years 7 mg/day, 10 for ages 4–8 and 8 for ages 9–13. As for safety, the IOM also sets Tolerable upper intake levels (ULs) for vitamins and minerals when evidence is sufficient. In the case of iron the UL is set at 45 mg/day. Collectively the EARs, RDAs and ULs are referred to as Dietary Reference Intakes.\n\nThe European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) refers to the collective set of information as Dietary Reference Values, with Population Reference Intake (PRI) instead of RDA, and Average Requirement instead of EAR. AI and UL defined the same as in United States. For women the PRI is 13 mg/day ages 15–17 years, 16 mg/day for women ages 18 and up who are premenopausal and 11 mg/day postmenopausal. For pregnancy and lactation, 16 mg/day. For men the PRI is 11 mg/day ages 15 and older. For children ages 1 to 14 the PRI increases from 7 to 11 mg/day. The PRIs are higher than the U.S. RDAs, with the exception of pregnancy. The EFSA reviewed the same safety question did not establish a UL.\n\nInfants may require iron supplements if they are bottle-fed cow's milk. Frequent blood donors are at risk of low iron levels and are often advised to supplement their iron intake.\n\nFor U.S. food and dietary supplement labeling purposes the amount in a serving is expressed as a percent of Daily Value (%DV). For iron labeling purposes 100% of the Daily Value was 18 mg, and remained unchanged at 18 mg. A table of all of the old and new adult Daily Values is provided at Reference Daily Intake. The original deadline to be in compliance was July 28, 2018, but on September 29, 2017 the U.S. Food and Drug Administration released a proposed rule that extended the deadline to January 1, 2020 for large companies and January 1, 2021 for small companies.\n\nIron deficiency is the most common nutritional deficiency in the world. When loss of iron is not adequately compensated by adequate dietary iron intake, a state of latent iron deficiency occurs, which over time leads to iron-deficiency anemia if left untreated, which is characterised by an insufficient number of red blood cells and an insufficient amount of hemoglobin. Children, pre-menopausal women (women of child-bearing age), and people with poor diet are most susceptible to the disease. Most cases of iron-deficiency anemia are mild, but if not treated can cause problems like fast or irregular heartbeat, complications during pregnancy, and delayed growth in infants and children.\n\nIron uptake is tightly regulated by the human body, which has no regulated physiological means of excreting iron. Only small amounts of iron are lost daily due to mucosal and skin epithelial cell sloughing, so control of iron levels is primarily accomplished by regulating uptake. Regulation of iron uptake is impaired in some people as a result of a genetic defect that maps to the HLA-H gene region on chromosome 6 and leads to abnormally low levels of hepcidin, a key regulator of the entry of iron into the circulatory system in mammals. In these people, excessive iron intake can result in iron overload disorders, known medically as hemochromatosis. Many people have an undiagnosed genetic susceptibility to iron overload, and are not aware of a family history of the problem. For this reason, people should not take iron supplements unless they suffer from iron deficiency and have consulted a doctor. Hemochromatosis is estimated to be the cause of 0.3 to 0.8% of all metabolic diseases of Caucasians. \n\nOverdoses of ingested iron can cause excessive levels of free iron in the blood. High blood levels of free ferrous iron react with peroxides to produce highly reactive free radicals that can damage DNA, proteins, lipids, and other cellular components. Iron toxicity occurs when the cell contains free iron, which generally occurs when iron levels exceed the availability of transferrin to bind the iron. Damage to the cells of the gastrointestinal tract can also prevent them from regulating iron absorption, leading to further increases in blood levels. Iron typically damages cells in the heart, liver and elsewhere, causing adverse effects that include coma, metabolic acidosis, shock, liver failure, coagulopathy, adult respiratory distress syndrome, long-term organ damage, and even death. Humans experience iron toxicity when the iron exceeds 20 milligrams for every kilogram of body mass; 60 milligrams per kilogram is considered a lethal dose. Overconsumption of iron, often the result of children eating large quantities of ferrous sulfate tablets intended for adult consumption, is one of the most common toxicological causes of death in children under six. The Dietary Reference Intake (DRI) sets the Tolerable Upper Intake Level (UL) for adults at 45 mg/day. For children under fourteen years old the UL is 40 mg/day.\n\nThe medical management of iron toxicity is complicated, and can include use of a specific chelating agent called deferoxamine to bind and expel excess iron from the body.\n\nThe role of iron in cancer defense can be described as a \"double-edged sword\" because of its pervasive presence in non-pathological processes. People having chemotherapy may develop iron deficiency and anemia, for which intravenous iron therapy is used to restore iron levels. Iron overload, which may occur from high consumption of red meat, may initiate tumor growth and increase susceptibility to cancer onset, particularly for colorectal cancer.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24389082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24389082", "title": "Jamaica Society of Energy Engineers", "text": "Jamaica Society of Energy Engineers\n\nThe Jamaica Society of Energy Engineers (JSEE) is a newly formed public non-profit organization with a mandate to promote the conscientious utilization of energy resources in Jamaica. The JSEE formation was initially spurred by the need for a professional entity to provide and oversee local training and certification of Energy Auditors and Managers.\nThe JSEE is now a chapter of the Association of Energy Engineers (AEE), which is the world-wide certifying body for all energy engineers.\n\nThe formation of the society was spearheaded by the Computing and Engineering Entrepreneurial Centre, at the University of Technology (UTech) and was officially launched at the Technology Innovation Centre, UTech on February 27, 2009.\n\nThe society's objectives are to promote energy matters in organizations, corporate with industries and organizations to provide energy solutions, certify energy professionals and provide career guidance for students at the secondary and tertiary levels.\n\nAs part of the Government of Jamaica’s (GOJ) expressed desire to promote the implementation of energy efficiency and conservation practices, the GOJ through the Development Bank of Jamaica (DBJ) made available J$1 Billion to be lent to Small and Medium Size Enterprises (SME’s). The Project named the “DBJ-PetroCaribe Energy Line of Credit for SME” will be distributed by Approved Financial Institutions (AFIs) (Commercial Banks, Credit Unions and P.C. Banks) to SME members after completing an Energy Audit done by an approved Auditor from the Petroleum Corporation of Jamaica.\n\nThe University of Technology, Jamaica was invited to be a partner in the project to establish the Jamaica Society of Energy Engineers and to train persons as Certified Energy Managers expected to do the audits on the SME. The other members of the partnership are Development Bank of Jamaica (DBJ), Jamaica Trade and Invest (JTI), and Petroleum Corporation of Jamaica (PCJ).\n"}
{"id": "12008694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12008694", "title": "Junction temperature", "text": "Junction temperature\n\nJunction temperature, short for transistor junction temperature, is the highest operating temperature of the actual semiconductor in an electronic device. In operation, it is higher than case temperature and the temperature of the part's exterior. The difference is equal to the amount of heat transferred from the junction to case multiplied by the junction-to-case thermal resistance.\n\nVarious physical properties of semiconductor materials are temperature dependent. These include the diffusion rate of dopant elements, carrier mobilities and the thermal production of charge carriers.\n\nAt the low end, sensor diode noise can be reduced by cryogenic cooling. On the high end, the resulting increase in local power dissipation can lead to thermal runaway that may cause momentary or permanent device failure.\n\nMaximum junction temperature (sometimes abbreviated TJMax) is specified in a part's datasheet and is used when calculating the necessary case-to-ambient thermal resistance for a given power dissipation. This in turn is used to select an appropriate heat sink if necessary. Other cooling methods include thermoelectric cooling and Coolants.\n\nIn modern processors from manufacturer such as Intel, AMD, Qualcomm , the core temperature is measured by a sensor. If the core reaches its TJMax, this will trigger a protection mechanism to cool the processor. If the temperature rises above the TJMax, the processor will trigger an alarm to warn the computer operator who can then discontinue the process that is causing the overheating or shut down the computer to prevent damage.\n\nAn estimation of the chip-junction temperature, T, can be obtained from the following equation:\n\nT = T + ( R × P )...\n\nwhere:\nT = ambient temperature for the package ( °C )\n\nR = junction to ambient thermal resistance ( °C / W )\n\nP = power dissipation in package (W)\n\nMany semiconductors and their surrounding optics are small, making it difficult to measure junction temperature with direct methods such as thermocouples and infrared cameras. \n\nJunction temperature may be measured indirectly using the device's inherent voltage/temperature dependency characteristic. Combined with a Joint Electron Device Engineering Council (JEDEC) technique such as JESD 51-1 and JESD 51-51, this method will produce accurate Tj measurements. However, this measurement technique is difficult to implement in multi-LED series circuits due to high common mode voltages and the need for fast, high duty cycle current pulses. This difficulty can be overcome by combining high-speed sampling digital multimeters and fast high-compliance pulsed current sources.\n\nOnce junction temperature is known, another important parameter, thermal resistance (Rθ), may be calculated using the following equation:\n\ncodice_1\n\nAn LED or laser diode’s junction temperature (Tj) is a primary determinate for long-term reliability; it also is a key factor for photometry. For example, a typical white LED output declines 20% for a 50 °C rise in junction temperature. Because of this temperature sensitivity, LED measurement standards, like IESNA’s LM-85, require that the junction temperature is determined when making photometric measurements.\n\nJunction heating can be minimized in these devices by using the Continuous Pulse Test Method specified in LM-85. An L-I sweep conducted with an Osram Yellow LED shows that Single Pulse Test Method measurements yield a 25% drop in luminous flux output and DC Test Method measurements yield a 70% drop. \n\n"}
{"id": "13595249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13595249", "title": "Kilokaiser", "text": "Kilokaiser\n\nThe Kaiser (K) is a unit of energy. A common form is kiloKaiser (kK). 1 kK = 1000 cm. ( cm, wavenumber or inverse wavelength.) This unit is most commonly used with respect to energy transitions between electronic states in inorganic complexes.\n\n\nKilokaiser is a common but incorrect spelling of the unit KiloKayser, which equals 1000 wavenumber (cm). The unit is named after Heinrich Gustav Johannes Kayser (16 March 1853 – 14 October 1940), a German physicist.\n\n"}
{"id": "14459870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14459870", "title": "Kory Johnson", "text": "Kory Johnson\n\nKory Johnson is an American environmentalist from Arizona. \n\nIn 1991, while still a young girl, Johnson led a successful effort by Children for a Safe Environment to stop a hazardous waste dump being built in her local area. In 1996 she joined Greenpeace and helped organize protests against trainloads of DDT-contaminated dirt into Arizona.\n\nShe was awarded the Goldman Environmental Prize in 1998, for her efforts against toxic and nuclear contamination.\n"}
{"id": "7428109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7428109", "title": "Kot Addu Power Company", "text": "Kot Addu Power Company\n\nThe Kot Addu Power Company Limited (KAPCO) owns, operates, and maintains a multi-fuel fired power plant in Kot Addu, District Muzaffargarh, Punjab, Pakistan. \n\nIncorporated in 1996, the Kot Addu Power Plant was built by the Pakistan Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA). In April, 2000, the company was incorporated as a public limited company. \n\nKot Addu Power Plant produces 1,600 MW of electricity. On April 18, 2005 the Company was formally listed on all three Stock Exchanges of Pakistan. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "35778443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35778443", "title": "Leading and lagging current", "text": "Leading and lagging current\n\nLeading and lagging current are phenomena that occur as a result of alternating current. In a circuit with alternating current, the value of voltage and current vary sinusoidally. In these types of circuits, the terms lead, lag, or in phase are used to describe current with reference to voltage. Current is in phase with voltage when there is no phase shift between the sinusoids describing their time varying behavior. This generally occurs when the load drawing the current is resistive.\n\nIn electric power flow, it is important to know whether current is leading or lagging because it can be used to describe how much circulating reactive power flow is occurring in the system, and whether that power is inductive or capacitive. It can also play an important role in the operation of three-phase power systems.\n\nAngle notation can easily describe leading and lagging current:\n\n formula_1\n\nIn this equation, the value of theta is the important factor for leading and lagging current. As mentioned in the introduction above, leading or lagging current represents a time shift between the current and voltage sine curves, which is represented by the angle by which the curve is ahead or behind of where it would be initially. For example, if θ is zero, the curve will have amplitude zero at time zero. Using complex numbers is a way to simplify analyzing certain components in RLC circuits. For example, it is very easy to convert these between polar and rectangular coordinates. Starting from the polar notation,  formula_2 can represent either the vector  formula_3  or the rectangular notation  formula_4  both of which have magnitudes of 1.\n\n formula_5\n\nLagging current can be formally defined as “an alternating current that reaches its maximum value up to 90 degrees later than the voltage that produces it.” This means that current lags the voltage when formula_6, the angle of the current sine wave with respect to an arbitrarily chosen reference, is less than formula_7, the angle of the voltage sine wave with respect to the same reference. Therefore, current can quickly be identified as lagging if the angle formula_8 is positive. For example, if the voltage angle formula_7 is zero, current will be lagging if formula_6 is negative. This is often the case because voltage is taken as the reference.\n\nIn circuits with primarily inductive loads, current lags the voltage. This happens because in an inductive load, it is the induced electromotive force that causes the current to flow. Note that in the definition above, the current is produced by the voltage. The induced electromotive force is caused by a change in the magnetic flux linking the coils of an inductor.\n\n formula_5\n\nLeading current can be formally defined as “an alternating current that reaches its maximum value up to 90 degrees ahead of the voltage that it produces.” This means that the current leads the voltage when formula_6, the angle of the current sine wave with respect to an arbitrarily chosen reference is greater than formula_7, the angle of the voltage sine wave with respect to the same reference. Therefore, current can quickly be identified as leading if the angle formula_8 is negative. For example, if the voltage angle formula_7 is zero, current will be leading if formula_6 is positive. This is often the case because voltage is taken as the reference.\n\nIn circuits with primarily capacitive loads, current leads the voltage. This is true because current must first flow to the two plates of the capacitor, where charge is stored. Only after charge accumulates at the plates of a capacitor is a voltage difference established. The behavior of the voltage is thus dependent on the behavior current and on how much charge accumulates. This is why the formal definition states that the current produces the voltage.\n\nA simple phasor diagram with a two dimensional Cartesian coordinate system and phasors can be used to visualize leading and lagging current at a fixed moment in time. In the real-complex coordinate system, one\nperiod of a sine wave corresponds to a full circle in the complex plane. Since\nthe voltage and current have the same frequency, at any moment in time those\nquantities can be easily represented by stationary points on the circle, while\nthe arrows from the center of circle to those points are called phasors. Since\nthe relative time difference between functions is constant, they also have a\nconstant angle difference between them, represented by the angle between points\non the circle. \n\nAn early source of data is an article from the 1911 American Academy of Arts and Sciences by A.E. Kennelly. Kennelly uses traditional methods in solving vector diagrams for oscillating circuits, which can also include alternating current circuits as well.\n\n\nReferences: \n\n"}
{"id": "3313195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3313195", "title": "Libyan desert glass", "text": "Libyan desert glass\n\nLibyan Desert glass (LDG), or Great Sand Sea glass is an impactite found in areas in the eastern Sahara, in the deserts of eastern Libya and western Egypt. Fragments of desert glass can be found over areas of tens of square kilometers.\n\nThe origin of desert glass is uncertain. Meteoritic origins have long been considered possible, and recent research links the glass to impact features, such as zircon-breakdown, vaporized quartz and meteoritic metals, and to an impact crater. Some geologists associate the glass with radiative melting from meteoric large aerial bursts, making it analogous to trinitite created from sand exposed to the thermal radiation of a nuclear explosion. Libyan Desert glass has been dated as having formed about 26 million years ago. It was knapped and used to make tools during the Pleistocene.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4177826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4177826", "title": "List of tropical cyclone-spawned tornadoes", "text": "List of tropical cyclone-spawned tornadoes\n\nIntense tropical cyclones usually produce tornadoes, the majority of those weak, especially upon landfall.\n\nThese are the tropical cyclones that are known to have spawned tornadoes. The list is most complete for the U.S., but does include other areas. Within the United States 1,163 tornadoes were associated with tropical cyclones, accounting for slightly under 6% of all tornadoes. The most tornadoes spawned by a single tropical cyclone were associated with Hurricane Ivan, which spawned 120 tornadoes.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6026779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6026779", "title": "List of waste types", "text": "List of waste types\n\nWaste comes in many different forms and may be categorized in a variety of ways. The types listed here are not necessarily exclusive and there may be considerable overlap so that one waste entity may fall into one to many types.\n\n"}
{"id": "11536104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11536104", "title": "Marduk-apal-iddina II kudurru", "text": "Marduk-apal-iddina II kudurru\n\nThe Marduk-apal-iddina II kudurru is a boundary stone (kudurru) of Marduk-apal-iddina II, who ruled Babylon from 722 BC - 710 BC.\n\nSome kudurrus are known for their representations of the king, etc, who consigned the production. Most kudurrus represent Mesopotamian gods, which are often displayed graphically in segmented \"registers\" on the stone.\n\nMarduk-apal-iddina's kudurru contains one register at the stones upper section. A series of gods are represented.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30114852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30114852", "title": "Nacelle (wind turbine)", "text": "Nacelle (wind turbine)\n\nA nacelle is a cover housing that houses all of the generating components in a wind turbine, including the generator, gearbox, drive train, and brake assembly.\n\nA notable feature now found on some off-shore wind turbines is a large sturdy helicopter-hoisting platform built on top of the nacelle, capable of supporting service personnel and their tools, winched down to the platform from a helicopter hovering above it. Wind turbine rotors are stopped, feathered and locked before personnel are dropped down to or picked up from the platforms.\n"}
{"id": "7095959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7095959", "title": "Northern Powergrid", "text": "Northern Powergrid\n\nNorthern Powergrid Holdings Company (formerly CE Electric UK Funding Company) is an electrical distribution company based in Newcastle Upon Tyne in England. It is the owner of Northern Powergrid (Northeast) Limited (formerly Northern Electric Distribution Limited (NEDL)) and Northern Powergrid (Yorkshire) plc (formerly Yorkshire Electricity Distribution plc (YEDL)) which are the Distribution Network Operators for the North East England and Yorkshire regions.\n\nThe company was created after the takeover of Northern Electric by CalEnergy in 1996. The company disposed of the supply business of Northern Electric to Innogy plc in 2001 in exchange for the distribution business of Yorkshire Electricity. Thus it represents the electricity distribution systems of the former North Eastern Electricity Board and Yorkshire Electricity Board, which were privatised in 1990.\n\nNorthern Powergrid is an electricity distribution business, delivering electricity on behalf of suppliers from the national transmission system to 3.9 million domestic and business customers.\n\nCovering an area of 25,000 square kilometres, Northern Powergrid’s network extends from north Northumberland, south to the Humber and northern Lincolnshire, and from the east coast to the Pennines. The network consists of more than 63,000 substations and around 96,000 kilometres of overhead line and underground cables.\n\nNorthern Powergrid is a wholly owned subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway Energy.\n\nOn 1 November 2011 Northern Powergrid was rebranded from CE Electric UK. The new name is intended to give a better customer representation of the business, its location and operations.\n\n"}
{"id": "28207691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28207691", "title": "Nutritional scale", "text": "Nutritional scale\n\nA nutrition scale is a weighing instrument that output precise nutritional information for foods or liquids. Most scales calculate calories, carbohydrates, and fats, with more sophisticated scales calculating additional nutrients such as Vitamin K, potassium, magnesium, and sodium.\n\nScales often use USDA information on food to ensure accuracy. The products are used primarily as a weight management tool, but have found a user base with diabetics and hypertensive people.\n"}
{"id": "1879440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879440", "title": "Oxygen bar", "text": "Oxygen bar\n\nAn oxygen bar is an establishment, or part of one, that sells oxygen for recreational use. Individual flavored scents may be added to enhance the experience. The flavors in an oxygen bar come from bubbling oxygen through bottles containing aromatic solutions before it reaches the nostrils: most bars use food-grade particles to produce the scent, but some bars use aroma oils.\n\nIn 1776, Thomas Henry, an apothecary and Fellow of the Royal Society of England speculated tongue in cheek that Joseph Priestley’s newly discovered dephlogisticated air (now called oxygen) might become “as fashionable as French wine at the fashionable taverns”. He did not expect, however, that tavern goers would “relish calling for a bottle of Air, instead of Claret” \n\nAnother early reference to the recreational use of oxygen is found in Jules Verne's 1870 novel \"Around the Moon\". In this work Verne states\n\"Do you know, my friends, that a curious establishment might be founded with rooms of oxygen, where people whose system is weakened could for a few hours live a more active life. Fancy parties where the room was saturated with this heroic fluid, theaters where it should be kept at high pressure; what passion in the souls of the actors and spectators! what fire, what enthusiasm! And if, instead of an assembly only a whole people could be saturated, what activity in its functions, what a supplement to life it would derive. From an exhausted nation they might make a great and strong one, and I know more than one state in old Europe which ought to put itself under the regime of oxygen for the sake of its health!\"\n\nModeled after the \"air stations\" in polluted downtown Tokyo and Beijing, the first official oxygen bar (the O2 Spa Bar) opened in Toronto, Canada, in 1996. The trend continued in North America and by the late 1990s bars were in use in New York, California, Florida, Las Vegas and the Rocky Mountain region. Customers in these bars breathe oxygen through a plastic hose inserted into their nostrils. Oxygen bars can now be found in many venues such as nightclubs, salons, spas, health clubs, resorts, tanning salons, restaurants, coffee houses, bars, airports, ski chalets, yoga studios, chiropractors, and casinos. They can also be found at trade shows, conventions and corporate meetings, as well as at private parties and promotional events.\n\nOxygen bar guests pay about one U.S. dollar per minute to inhale a percentage of oxygen greater than the normal atmospheric content of 20.9% oxygen. This oxygen is produced from the ambient air by an industrial (non-medical) oxygen concentrator and inhaled through a nasal cannula for up to about 20 minutes.\n\nThe machines used by oxygen bars or oxygen vendors differ from the typical medical-issue machine, although customers use the cannula, the rubber tube apparatus that fits around the ears and inserts in the nostrils, to breathe in the oxygen. Customers can enhance their experience by using aromatherapy scents to be added to the oxygen, such as lavender or mint.\n\nIt has been claimed by alternative medicine that the human body is oxygen-deprived, and that oxygen will remove \"toxins\" and even cure cancer. Proponents claim this practice is not only safe, but enhances health and well-being, including strengthening the immune system, enhancing concentration, reducing stress, increasing energy and alertness, lessening the effects of hangovers, headaches, and sinus problems, and generally relaxing the body. It has also been alleged to help with altitude sickness. However, no long-term, well-controlled scientific studies have confirmed any of the proponents' claims. Furthermore, the human body is adapted to 21 percent oxygen, and the blood exiting the lungs already has about 97 percent of the oxygen that it could carry bound to hemoglobin. Having a higher oxygen fraction in the lungs serves no purpose, and may actually be detrimental.\n\nThe medical profession warns that individuals with respiratory diseases such as asthma and emphysema should not inhale too much oxygen.\nHigher than normal oxygen partial pressure can also indirectly cause carbon dioxide narcosis in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).\nThe FDA warns that in some situations, droplets of flavoring oil can be inhaled, which may contribute to an inflammation of the lungs. Some oxygen bar companies offer safe water-based aromas for flavoring in order to maintain compliance and stay within FDA guidelines.\n\nOxygen may also cause serious side effects at excessive doses. Although the effects of oxygen toxicity at atmospheric pressure can cause lung damage,\nthe low fraction of oxygen (30–40%) and relatively brief exposures make pulmonary toxicity unlikely. Nevertheless, due caution should be exercised when consuming oxygen. In the UK, the Health and Safety Executive publishes guidance on equipment (including tubing) and on staff training, as well as warning on potential hazards, and makes several recommendations to ensure safe practice, principally to minimise fire risks.\n\nAnother concern is the improper maintenance of oxygen equipment. Some oxygen concentrators use clay filters which cause micro-organisms to grow, creating an additional danger that can cause lung infections.\n\nAlso, concentrated oxygen is a flame accelerant which should be kept away from cigarettes and other sources of ignition.\n\nIn the United States, the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act defines any substance used for breathing and administered by another person as a prescription drug.\nMelvin Szymanski, a consumer safety officer in the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) Center for Drug Evaluation and Research, has explained that at one end of the hose is a source of oxygen, so the individual providing the hose and turning on the supply is dispensing a prescription drug. He commented that \"Although oxygen bars that dispense oxygen without a prescription violate FDA regulations, the agency applies regulatory discretion to permit the individual state boards of licensing to enforce the requirements pertaining to the dispensing of oxygen.\"\n\nCanadian Society of Respiratory Therapists says that \"As health professionals, we cannot ethically or morally support providing oxygen therapy to those who do not require it.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "24890616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24890616", "title": "PyTEC", "text": "PyTEC\n\nPyTEC is a containerised Pyrolysis Waste Disposal System designs by QinetiQ and used in various military applications. The system converts waste products to thermal energy which can be used for energy generation.\nThe system was developed by Compact Power Ltd specifically for QinetiQ. Compact Power's technology is now offered by Ethos Energy. The system was first fitted to HMS Ocean and is currently under evaluation for the US Army.\n"}
{"id": "8840679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8840679", "title": "Reegle", "text": "Reegle\n\nreegle (lower-case) is an Internet search engine specifically covering the fields of renewable energy and energy efficiency. It was originally developed in 2005 by REEEP and REN21 as a public resource, with funding from the governments of:\nThe site was substantially revised in April 2009 to be more user-friendly.\n\nreegle is a search engine specifically covering renewable energy, energy efficiency and climate change issues. It was conceived as a public resource for governments, project developers, banks and finance institutions, NGOs, and international organisations as well as the general public.\n\nIn addition to its search function, the site has a news feed provided courtesy of EnviroFinland, a blog, a green glossary of terms and event listings.\n\nIt has three main search components.\n\nThe central function of the site is a web search, which offers a \"mind map\" based search refinement function.\n\nThe user can click on a map of the world and get information on renewable energy and energy efficiency in that specific country, including relevant government ministries, private companies, country energy statistics, and a sampling of clean energy development projects in that specific area.\n\nAn online glossary covering about 4000 terms from the clean energy and climate sector, with definition from Open Data sources. Translations of many terms into additional languages is also available.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23591402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23591402", "title": "Renewable Energy Certificate System", "text": "Renewable Energy Certificate System\n\nThe Renewable Energy Certificate System (RECS) was a voluntary system for international trade in renewable energy certificates that was created by RECS International to stimulate international development of renewable energy. It advocated the use of a standard energy certificate to provide evidence of the production of a quantity of renewable energy, and provided a methodology which enables renewable energy trade, enabling the creation of a market for renewable energy and so promoting the development of new renewable energy capacity in Europe.\n\nA RECS energy certificate was issued for every 1 megawatt-hour (MWh) of renewable energy produced by an electricity generation facility that was registered with the relevant national RECS issuing body. These certificates could be transferred between market parties in different countries, and were used to provide evidence of the consumption of renewable energy – at which point they were made non-transferable, in order to ensure that the \"renewable benefit\" was not double-sold.\n\nWhile RECS guaranteed the source of the energy and prevented double-counting, it was not a label: these also guarantee other matters relating to the supplied electricity, such as the originating technology, the age of the plant and the source of the energy. Labels must also ensure that sales of labelled electricity either do not change the blend of sources of electricity that is supplied unlabelled, or that the buyers of such electricity are informed accordingly.\n\nThe market for RECS certificates was administered by the Association of Issuing Bodies (AIB) according to its European Energy Certificate System (EECS), in the same way as the obligatory guarantees of origin required by the various European Union Directives that have now replaced voluntary RECS certificates in Europe.\n\nSeveral non-governmental environmental organizations like Greenpeace and the World Wide Fund for Nature claimed that in practice there was no ecological benefit ensured by this certification method alone. While the demand for this certification method did not exceed supply by renewable energy power plants which had already existed for decades, it was criticized as being a pure mind-game: in practice, the amount of renewable source electricity that was assigned to certificate buyers was just \"assigned away\" from the other power consumers; and in total, nothing had changed. Indeed, some electricity traders misuse RECS certificates that they bought from old renewable source electricity power plants that had existed for years to imply misleadingly that buying their \"RECS certified regenerative electricity\" made a change to the environment.\n\nReputable eco-friendly electricity labels ensure an ecological benefit in practice. Some reputable labels (like the WWF co-funded German \"ok-power\" label) also used RECS, but only as a broadly-accepted accounting and tracking system (to register the power plants against double-selling); other labels required direct contracts for delivery with the plant as an alternative. The crux of such efforts was to additionally insist that the certificate-selling or directly-contracted power plant met important eco-orientated standards; those standards typically encompassing a maximum age of the power plant (to ensure that new power plants are built) and the banning of power plants that act against landscape or animal protection. Other labels co-issued by environmental organizations required that a part of the fee of every kWh be donated for investment in new eco-friendly power plants or technology.\n\nIn the United States, certified REC seller Arcadia Power bought certificates exclusively from projects located within the same ISO/RTO grid as the purchaser and which were produced within five years of sale. Primarily catering to residences and small businesses, the company provided customers with details about the wind or solar farm where their RECS certificates were generated.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46750901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46750901", "title": "Rice Lake Weighing Systems", "text": "Rice Lake Weighing Systems\n\nRice Lake Weighing Systems is an American multinational industrial scale manufacturer headquartered in Rice Lake, Wisconsin. An ISO 9001 certified company, Rice Lake Weighing Systems manufactures industrial scale and process-control equipment for a variety of industries including agriculture, food and beverage processing, forestry, pharmaceuticals, retail, transportation, logistics and waste.\n\nIn 1945, Donald B. Johnson and Warren Thomas founded Thomas & Johnson Scale Service in St. Paul, Minnesota. In 1946, they moved to Rice Lake, WI; an area with a high demand for scale service due to the dairies, creameries and railroads. Thomas & Johnson Scale Service became Rice Lake Bearing Inc. in 1971, as the company began to offer refurbishing services for pivots and bearings. In 1981, Donald B. and his son Mark became sole owners of the company. In 1986, the company changed its name to Rice Lake Weighing Systems. Today, Rice Lake Weighing Systems is the largest employer in the city of Rice Lake, WI with over 600 employees\n\nThe Rice Lake Weighing Systems corporate headquarters, primary manufacturing facility and NVLAP accredited metrology lab are located in Rice Lake, Wisconsin.\n\nRice Lake Weighing Systems acquired Powell Scale in 2005. The facility in Jasper is used for an expansion of the manufacturing of truck scales and other heavy-capacity products.\n\nThe Fernley facility was established in 2011 as a west coast manufacturing hub for truck scales and other heavy-capacity products.\n\nRice Lake Weighing Systems acquired Measurement Systems International in 2012. The Seattle facility offers a comprehensive line of industrial electronic scales, crane scales, tension dynamometers and other load monitoring instrumentation.\n\nRice Lake de Mexico provides sales, service and training support to Latin America.\n\nRice Lake Weighing Systems acquired the Dutch belt-scale manufacturer Master Engineering in 2013. Rice Lake Weighing Systems Europe B.V. provides distribution and support of Rice Lake products for their European customer base.\n\nRice Lake Weighing Systems India Ltd. Is a joint venture between Rice Lake Weighing Systems and Strategic Weighing Systems Limited. Products include electronic weighing systems, material handling systems and batching and blending solutions.\n\nRice Lake Weighing systems and Fefa Sensores have developed a distribution agreement to deliver product and customer service to the Brazilian marketplace through local service, warehousing and support in São Paulo, Brazil.\n\nOther divisions of Rice Lake Weighing Systems include Mattson Spray Equipment, Rice Lake Custom Machining and Intruder.\n\nRice Lake Weighing Systems was awarded a $78,795 grant from the Department of Workforce Development to develop a multi-level welding skills program . This program provides training and skill enhancement to 53 incumbent workers and 38 new hires at the company.\n\nRice Lake Weighing Systems has the largest Summer Internship program in the region, hosting 40 to 60 high school and college students each year. Interns work in a variety of fields from Maintenance, to Marketing, to HR, and gain real world experience to add to their resumes.\n"}
{"id": "25703859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25703859", "title": "Rue du Bœuf", "text": "Rue du Bœuf\n\nThe Rue du Bœuf is a 188-metre cobbled pedestrian street of the Vieux Lyon quarter, located in the 5th arrondissement of Lyon. Very representative of the Renaissance architecture of the neighborhood, it is lined only with old houses from the 16th or 17th century. The street connects the rue de Gadagne which it continues after the Place du Petit Collège and the intersection of the rue du Chemin Neuf, the rue de la Bombarde and the rue Tramassac which prolongs it. The street belongs to the zone classified as World Heritage Site by UNESCO.\n\nThe rue du Bœuf, like the rue Saint-Jean, was created to the late 3rd century after the inhabitants of Fourvière, the upper town of Lugdunum, were deprived of water and forced to descend to the Saône to gradually build a whole neighborhood, where is the current Vieux Lyon. The street was once inhabited by wealthy merchants of Lyon, as the rue Saint-Jean, and was formerly part of the rue Tramassac which it extends, and had this name before 1586. There was a Mint in the street, which was transferred to the Hôtel du Grollier in 1590. In the 16th century, when a statue of cattle was carved, located in the niche that is at the corner of the Place Neuve Saint Jean, the street received its current name. The statue was first attributed to Jean de Bologne, then to Martin Hendricy, from Liège, who went in Lyon circa 1640. In 1650, the street was extended at north to the rue Gadagne, providing better traffic in the area, drawing a parallel to the rue Saint-Jean. In 1722, it was enlarged on the side of the rue du Chemin Neuf. On 18 February 1822, at 8:45 am, several houses in the street were shattered by an earthquake. In 1825, there were 315 silk looms and 150 workshops in the street. The Nos. 2 and 36 were bequeathed to the hospitals of Lyon, respectively in 1857 and 1884.\n\nLong time ago, on the side of the hill, there were terraces, gardens and stables with an entrance on the montée Saint-Barthélémy.\n\nFamous people who live here include magistrate and writer Laurent Dugas who had his office in the street in 1711. In the early 20th century, or at the late 19th century, the magician Philippe had his office, at the ground floor of the Renaissance building at No. 6, and a sign reminds it in the Cour des Loges.\n\n\nThe street has many traboules, but are not open to the public. The most notable and longest of Vieux Lyon is at No. 27 and crosses four houses to reach the rue Saint-Jean, at No. 54.\n\n"}
{"id": "14112069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14112069", "title": "Saw pit", "text": "Saw pit\n\nA saw pit or sawpit is a pit over which lumber is positioned to be sawed with a long two-handled saw by two people, one standing above the timber and the other below. It was used for producing sawn planks from tree trunks, which could then be cut down into boards, pales, posts, etc. Many towns, villages and country estates had their own saw pits. The greatest user of sawn timber in past centuries was the shipbuilding industry.\n\nA sawyer is a person who cuts (\"saws\") wood for a living. Sawyers were at one time important members of the rural community, because many implements, as well as buildings, were made of wood. In England, the terms used were 'bottom sawyer', for the man standing in the pit, and 'top sawyer', for the man who balanced on the log.\n\nTogether, the sawyers would alternate pulling the two-man saw through the log. If the saw kerf began closing, it could cause the saw to bind and increase friction; wedges, most often made of convenient bits of wood, could be inserted in order to keep the kerf open and reduce the friction. \"Kerf\" is an Anglo-Saxon word related to our modern day word 'carve'. Two-man saws were designed to cut in both directions and very careful tooth design was necessary to clear the sawdust during the cut. The sawdust accumulated to the extent that it had to be 'dug out' and removed in a bucket. Oak dust could be burned and used in the curing of bacon.\n\nThe two man team would use a two handled saw, called a 'whipsaw', with 'saddleblocks' or 'dogs' to hold the log in position horizontally. Sawing was a slow and exhausting process, requiring strong men with great stamina. The topsawyer had to be especially strong because the saw was pulled in turn by each man, and the lower had the advantage of gravity. The topsawyer also had the important task of guiding the saw so that the board was of even thickness. This was often done by following a chalkline. In some cases the box handle on one end of the saw could be removed so the saw could be pulled free when the sawyers needed to move the timber to a new position.\n\nThe top-sawyer's work had to be very accurate; it was he who kept a careful balance on the log and guided the long saw, who kept the cuts straight or curved as required, and who estimated the width of the planks. He was the man in charge of the operation, and it wasn't uncommon for nicknames such as 'William Top-sawyer' to be common currency in country areas. Great pride was taken in the finished article, and anticipation of the end result tended to ease the exertion of the labour required.\n\nSaw pits were a crucial component of shipbuilding, for which planks of wood were necessary for the construction of all classes of vessels. The logs of wood to be sawn were placed over a pit on planks of wood called \"dogs\" in naval jargon. The senior sawyer stood on top of the plank. The junior one had to go into the pit, which was often partially filled with water, with sawdust constantly 'raining down,' so he stood in a layer of sawdust as a result. One theory of the origin of the terms 'top dog' and 'underdog' is that they come from saw pit work practices (however, others cite documentary evidence that these terms more likely arose from dog fighting). Cutting from underneath a suspended log is sometimes called \"underbucking\".\n\nTen foot logs were sometimes sawn into boards except for about the last two inches. In this way the boards could be more easily handled; then the boards were separated by cutting off the end of the log.\n\nUp to 200 boards a day could be produced with water-driven power sawing, compared to the 12 or so a day by two men in a saw pit. A saw pit could, if circumstances demanded, be worked by a single person, the end of the saw being weighted with a stone or some other weight, and then raised and lowered by the sawyer. \n\nA very early water driven Roman sawmill was in use in Hierapolis, the Hierapolis sawmill. Sawmills may well have been developed in the medieval period, as one was sketched by Villard de Honnecourt in c. 1250. There are claims that they were introduced to Madeira following its discovery in c. 1420 and spread widely in Europe in the 16th century. \n\nThe 'modern' sawmill was invented or perfected by the Dutchman Cornelis Corneliszoon (1550–1607) who applied a pitman arm onto a wind mill, which converted a turning motion into an up-an-down sawing motion. Cornelis took out a patent on his sawmill on December 15, 1593, and on the pitman arm device on December 6, 1597. Early sawmills adapted the whipsaw to mechanical power, generally driven by a water wheel. The circular motion of the wheel was changed to back-and-forth motion of the saw blade by the \"pitman\" arm or rod. A pitman is similar to a crankshaft, but in reverse (a crankshaft converts back-and-forth motion to circular motion).\n\nSeveral early sawmills in England were burned by sawyers who were fearful of losing their livelihoods. However, the increased efficiency of the sawmill, and the back-breaking nature of the saw pit work, resulted in saw pits generally going out of use in the United Kingdom at the time of the industrial revolution. Old OS maps circa 1860 often show the location of saw pits, but by the start of the 20th century very few remained and most are no longer in use. Roy Underhill tells the tall tale, or tongue-in-cheek story, that, after the development of steam-powered sawing machines, saw pits were unnecessary, and therefore were cut up and sold as post-holes.\n\nSaw pits were introduced into the Royal Dockyards in the mid 18th century. Before their introduction, trestles were used to support the log, and a frame saw employed for the cutting. In the Royal Dockyards saw pits, the upper sawyer was called the 'Topman;' he followed the marked line to make a straight plank, and the 'Underman' pushed the rib, pit or whip saw. The logs were held firmly in place by 'G' shaped clamps called 'dogs' that were hammered into the log being cut. The pits were usually lined with elm wood, which withstood damp. Access to the saw pit was via steps or a ladder at one end. The sawyers were paid by the 100 foot runs, with pay related to the difficulty of sawing the wood, oak being the highest paid. Usually the sawyer was responsible for sharpening the saws, however on occasion a whet man was employed to do that work.\n\nSaw pits provided much of the sawn timber for Australia during the 1800s. Convicts were put to work in saw pits as a punishment in penal colonies in Tasmania.\n\nSaw pits also featured in some of the most significant events of early european Australian settlement. In August 1788, William Bligh captain of the HMS Bounty, anchored in Adventure Bay, Tasmania and ordered his crew to dig a saw pit in order to repair their boat. Eight months later the crew would go on to mutiny in the famous Mutiny on the Bounty.\n\nIn January 1789, the first British fleet sailed into Botany Bay, then Sydney Cove to settle Sydney. Saw pits were promptly dug in both places so building timber could be produced.\n\nSaw pits were prominent in the early european logging of New Zealand. Even with the introduction of water powered sawmills in the 1840s, and steam powered sawmills in 1865, saw pits were still being used in the early 1900s in difficult locations.\n\nA pit sawyer in New Zealand was well paid. For instance during the 1840s in Nelson a sawyer could earn 80 pounds in five months, more than double the average wage.\n\nThe saw pit at Llanaeron Home Farm is unusually housed in a single-story open-fronted building. The rear wall is of rubble (stone) construction and there is a rubble pier at each of the front corners, with the whole structure under a pitched slate roof.\n\nQ-pits, used to make White coal, are often found nearby saw pits.\n\nWilliam Shakespeare refers to saw pits in the \"Merry Wives of Windsor\". Daniel Defoe's character, the 17th century castaway Robinson Crusoe, complains about how difficult it is to saw timber into planks without the use of a saw pit. \n\nPhilip Wharton was born in 1613, and at the age of 12 (1625) he became the fourth Lord Wharton. In 1642 Lord Wharton raised a regiment of foot soldiers and a troop of horsemen to fight in the Battle of Edgehill. They behaved less than gloriously - \"Before there were any near excuse three or four of our regiments fairly ran away - Sir William Fairfax's, Sir Henry Cholmley's, my Lord Kimbolton's and to say the plain truth my own.\" Wharton himself ran away and is said to have hidden in a saw pit, thus earning for himself the parliamentary nickname of Philip 'Sawpit' Wharton.\n\nThe settlement of Saw Pit in the United States of America eventually outgrew this name and became Port Chester by incorporating as a village in 1868. The Town of Sawpit, Colorado is a statutory town located in San Miguel County, Colorado, United States of America.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43851158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43851158", "title": "Stony Brook–Millstone Watershed Association", "text": "Stony Brook–Millstone Watershed Association\n\nThe Stony Brook–Millstone Watershed Association is a New Jersey organization devoted to promoting and protecting the watersheds of central New Jersey's Stony Brook and Millstone River, along with associated natural resources and beauty. Claiming to be central New Jersey's first environmental group, it was established in 1949. The organization promotes and advocates conservation and restoration of natural habitats, collects data on environmental conditions in its watersheds, and provides environmental education through numerous programs.\n\nThe association is centered on its 930-acre nature reserve in Hopewell Township, Mercer County, which includes portions of Stony Brook, a pond, several trails, the Watershed Center for environmental education, and the Stony Brook Millstone Watershed Arboretum.\n"}
{"id": "43987248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43987248", "title": "Timmis system", "text": "Timmis system\n\nTimmis was an innovative design of double coiled springs, originally used for railway rolling stock, such as on the Barsi Light Railway c1889, as formulated by Everard Calthrop (1857–1927).\n\nThe inventor was Illius Augustus Timmis\n\nUS Patent 432341 was filled in 1889 and published in 1890.\n\n"}
{"id": "2204906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2204906", "title": "Tractor vaporising oil", "text": "Tractor vaporising oil\n\nTractor vaporising oil (or TVO) is a fuel for petrol-paraffin engines. In the United Kingdom and Australia, after the Second World War, it was commonly used for tractors until diesel engines became commonplace. In Australian English it was known as power kerosene.\n\nTVO existed for at least fifteen years before it became widely used. A 1920 publication mentions it as a product of British Petroleum. But it was not until the late 1930s that it first became widely used. The post war Ferguson TE20 tractor, a carefully researched and near-ideal tractor for use on British farms, was designed around a petrol (gasoline) engine, the Standard inline-four. Although there was a campaign for the reintroduction of agricultural Road Duty (tax)-free petrol, which had been curtailed during the war, this was not forthcoming. Perkins Engines supplied some conversions into diesel engines which could use untaxed red diesel.\n\nOn the early Fordson model N, the tap which changed over from petrol to TVO was marked G for gasoline and K for kerosene, reflecting that these tractors had their design origin in the USA. In the UK tractor vaporising oil was usually called TVO.\n\nAs a substitute for petrol, TVO was developed. Paraffin (kerosene) was commonly used as a domestic heating fuel and was untaxed. Paraffin has a low octane rating and would damage an engine built for petrol. The manufacture of paraffin involves the removal of aromatic hydrocarbons from what is now sold as heating oil. These aromatics have an octane rating, so adding some of that otherwise waste product material back in a controlled manner into paraffin gave TVO. The resulting octane rating of TVO was somewhere between 55 and 70. \n\n\n\nThe words paraffin and kerosene are often used interchangeably but the tables suggest that this is incorrect because they have different octane ratings. However, kerosene and heating oil have similar octane ratings. Paraffin, kerosene and petrol (gasoline) are all rather loosely defined. For example, gasoline may have an octane rating between 88 and 102.\n\nBecause TVO has a lower octane rating than petrol, the engine needs a lower compression ratio. On the TVO version of the Ferguson TE20 tractor, the cylinder head was re-designed to reduce the compression ratio to 4.5:1. This reduced the power output, so the cylinder bore was increased to 85 mm to restore the power. The petrol version had a compression ratio of 5.77:1 and a cylinder bore of 80 mm on early versions..\n\nIn practice TVO had most of the properties of paraffin, including the need for heating to encourage vapourisation. As a result, the exhaust and inlet manifolds were adapted so that more heat from the former warmed the latter. Such a setup was called a vaporiser. To get the tractor to start from cold, a small second fuel tank was added that contained petrol. The tractor was started on the expensive petrol, then – once the engine was warm – the fuel supply switched over to TVO or paraffin. So long as the engine was working hard, as when ploughing or pulling a load, the TVO would burn well. Under light conditions, such as travelling unloaded on the highway, the engine was better on petrol.\n\nSome tractor designs included a radiator \"blind\" that would restrict the flow of air over the radiator which led to the engine running hotter, which could help with starting. If the radiator blind was left shut, though, there was a risk of engine damage, especially in warm weather.\n\nThe phrase petrol-paraffin engine is often used to describe an engine that uses TVO. This can be interpreted either as \n\nTVO was withdrawn from sale by UK suppliers in 1974 but has been re-introduced by at least one supplier (Rye Oil Ltd). An approximation to the correct specification can be made from petrol and heating oil (burning oil). In the UK there is an exception that permits the use of rebated kerosene and fuel oils in vintage vehicles.\n"}
{"id": "4979495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4979495", "title": "Tsqaltubo", "text": "Tsqaltubo\n\nTskaltubo is located in the central part of west Georgia, in the lowland, at the foot of the Southern Caucasus, 98 meters above the sea-level, in the valley of the river Tskaltubo. It is in 9 km distance from Kutaisi and 240km from Tbilisi.The climate in Tskaltubo is warm and moderately mild. Average annual temperature +150C; average annual precipitation 76%. Winters here are warm and mild.\nThe  “Waters of Immortality” in Tskaltubo were probably known already in the 7th-9th centuries, when the oldest historical records are dated. Since the 18th century several foreign researchers gave word of the healing properties of these springs:Berlin Society of Friends of Natural Science (1782); J.Klaproth (1815); A. Jolenberg (1897). By 1920, after chemical analysis had revealed the uniqueness of the water, Tskaltubo was officially declared a medical spa resort and  achieve the status of city in 1953.\n\nIn 1920 the territory of Tskaltubo became state property and it acquired the function of balneology resort. The building of the resort started in 1926. In 1931, a decree by the government of Georgian Soviet Republic designed Tskaltubo as a spa resort and balneology center.\n\nIn 1950-1951, architects I.Zaalishvili and V.Kedia prepared a project plan for the town where sanatoriums form a circle around a park, recreation and balneology facilities. Tskaltubo was divided into the following zones: balneological, sanitarian and living.\n\nIn 1953, Tskaltubo became the important spa-resort during the Soviet times. At different times, there were built 19 sanatoriums and pensions, nine baths, resort park, Branch of Scientific Institute of balneology and physiotherapy.\nAs one of Georgia's flagship historic spa towns, the town is still popular for the qualities of its waters. Tskaltubo mineral waters are famous for their stable physical and chemical composition and they are categorized as slight radon chloride –magnesium waters. The high-performance spa preventive effect of mineral waters is conditioned by their complex content and particular fusion of salt components. In Tskaltubo the bath taking has a peculiar technique, the treatment take place under the constant running water ( mineral water constantly flows in and out of the spa) and the water permanently preserves physical-chemical and mineral compositions. The water consists of six components and it penetrates into the human body via pores. Constituent ingredients in number are far below the permissible minimum, temperature of water is 33-35 C, it  is very soft, pure and odorless. \n\nTskaltubo Mineral water cures the following disease: limbs, peripheral nervous system, cardiac and vascular, skin, disbalance, endocrinology system, gynecological , rheumatism, poliomyelitis, cerebral palsy. Waters are recommended for adults and children (over 3) as well. \n\nThe Tskaltubo Balneological Zone is located in the lowland part of the town, in this part is a beautiful park (78ha) and a bathroom complex. Just here is the deposit of Tskaltubo springs where from the bathes are supplied with water. The park is the island located in the heart of the town. The park with its planning, plant, engineering art works (bridges, irrigation systems) is the unique cultural monument that provides an inimitable appearance of the town. The perennial and rare species, evergreen decorative plants, flowers grown in the park and subtropical climate create a pleasant climate in the town.\nAnother significant factor in Tskaltubo is its architecture which is basically a synthesis of Stalinist period classical style and of Georgian ethnic decor with Gothic and Roman features.\n\nThe unique radon-carbonated waters are Tskaltubo's major mineral resource.\n\nThey emerge at a comfortable temperature for bathing (35C), allowing them to be directly transferred from springs to the baths without cooling or heating.\n\nThese exclusive water are used to relieve a number of conditions including skin, metabolic, and circulatory diseases. It effectiveness make them useful to treat up to 60 conditions! \nThe Spring №6, is the largest thermal bath working today. It was built in 1950 exclusively for Joseph Vissarionovich Jughashvili (Stalin), the soviet union leader of the period. Private baths and dachas of Stalin and Lavrenti Beria are still kept in the city. The mineral water flows directly into  Buildings #1 and #6. These medical and rehabilitation centers are equipped with modern, European production and medical equipment. There are five pools of mineral water, 37 individual cabins for bathing mineral water, 17 hydro-massage cabinets, horizontal stretch cabinet of the spine, etc.. They offer treatment for osteochondrosis, ankylosing spondylitis, stature disorder, rheumatoid polyarthritis, spondyloarthritis, urologic and andrologic diseases, gynecological and skin diseases, etc. \n\nIn 2015 the new medical thermal center Tskaltubo-BE Healthy was established, equipped with the latest technologies and modern infrastructures. The center is notable for its wide offer of services available in its calm and comfortable environment. It offers treatments with healing waters and various health procedures. For example: Skin –restorative procedures, Body Fitness, Spa and Wellness body massage, Wellness hydrotherapy procedures , Application of mineral mud ( Peleoidoterapy ) , Diode laser , Gym  and many other health-improving practices.\n\nTskaltubo is rich with karst caves. Such as “Satsurblia\" \"Prometheus\", \"Sataplia\" which  provides visitors with breathtaking examples of stalactites, stalagmites, curtains, petrified waterfalls, cave pearls, underground rivers, and lakes.  The temperature in the cave is always 13-15C \n\nSatsurblia cave is the first and only Speleotherapic  - object in the Caucasus Region. The  cave has unique climatic environment that gives it the ability be transformed to a recreational tourism destination for individuals with respiratory diseases ( e.g. Bronchial asthma, etc.)  As for Speleotherapy, or underground climate-therapy it is a set of recreational therapy methods based on the use of underground microclimate to improve health.\n\nPrometheus cave is one of the most beautiful and longest caves in Georgia. Visitors can see amazing halls of Argonauts, Colchis,  Medea, Love, and Prometheus and of  Iberia, the excursion can be finished by foot or by a 15 minute boat ride an underground river .\n\nSataplia reserve is famous its footprints of herbivore and carnivore dinosaurs. The reserve also has a karst caves. There is a transparent platform that gives an outstanding view of Imereti’s landscape beauty.\n\nAccommodation:\n\nLegends Tskaltubo Spa Resort\nHotel Tskaltubo Plaza\n\nHotel Prometheus\n\nHotel Oasis Villa\n\nSanatorium Tskaltubo\n\nCentral Hotel\n\nSanatorium Orioni\n\nHotel Argo\n\nSanatorium Imereti\n\nHotel Nikala\n\nVilla Edemi\n\nFamous visitors of Tskaltubo1. Gamal abled Nasser Hussein \n\n2. Joseph Vissarionovich Stalin \n\n3. Janka Kupala\n\n4. Ilia ll \n\n5. Garry Kimonich Kasparov\n\n6. Boris Nikolayevich Yeltsin\n\n7. Anatoly Yevgenyevich Karpov\n\n8. Vasiliy Bubka\n\n9. National rugby team of Zeland \n\n10. Jose Kareras\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39130124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39130124", "title": "Variable speed wind turbine", "text": "Variable speed wind turbine\n\nOriginal models of wind turbines were fixed speed turbines; that is, the rotor speed was a constant for all wind speeds. The tip-speed ratio for a wind turbine is given by the following formula:\n\nformula_1\n\nwhere formula_2 is the rotor speed (in radians per second), formula_3 is the length of a blade, and formula_4 is the wind speed. That is to say, for a fixed-speed wind turbine, the value of the tip-speed ratio is only changed by wind speed variations. In reference to a formula_5-formula_6 graph, which illustrates the relationship between Tip-speed ratio and efficiency, it is evident that only one value of formula_6 yields the highest efficiency. That is, the fixed speed wind turbine is not operating at peak efficiency across a range of wind speeds. This was a motivator for the development of variable speed wind turbines.\n\nBefore the need to connect wind turbines to the grid, turbines were variable speed. This was not a problem because turbines did not have to be synchronized with the frequency of the grid.\n\nAll grid-connected wind turbines, from the first one in 1939 until the development of variable-speed grid-connected wind turbines in the 1970s, were fixed-speed wind turbines.\nAs of 2003, nearly all grid-connected wind turbines operate at exactly constant speed (synchronous generators) or within a few percent of constant speed (induction generators).\n\nBelow is an illustration of the formula_8 curve for a typical wind turbine.\n\nMaximum efficiency occurs at one tip-speed ratio only. Since tip-speed ratio is given by the aforementioned expression, variable speed wind turbines can operate at maximum efficiency over all wind speeds (ideally).\n\nFor a wind turbine, the power harvested is given by the following formula:\n\nformula_9\n\nwhere formula_10 is the power, formula_11 is the density of the air, formula_3 is the length of the blade, formula_4 is the velocity of the wind, and formula_5 is the power co-efficient for the wind turbine. The power co-efficient is a representation of how much of the available power in the wind is captured by the wind turbine.\n\nThe torque, formula_15, on the blades is given by the ratio of the power extracted to the rotor speed, formula_2:\n\nformula_17\n\nThe rotor speed can be related to the wind speed, formula_4, through the tip-speed ratio, formula_6:\n\nformula_1\n\nThus we can get the following expressions for torque and power:\n\nformula_21\n\nand\n\nformula_22\n\nFrom the above equation, we can construct a torque- rotor speed diagram for a wind turbine. This consists of multiple curves: a constant power curve which plots the relationship between torque and rotor speed for constant power (green curve); constant wind speed curves, which plot the relationship between torque and rotor speed for constant wind speeds (dashed grey curves); and constant efficiency curves, which plot the relationship between torque and rotor speed for constant efficiencies, formula_5. This diagram is presented below:\n\nGreen curve: Plot of power = rated power formula_24 formula_25\n\nGrey curve: Wind speed, formula_4, is held constant formula_24 formula_28\n\nBlue curve: Constant formula_5 formula_24 formula_31\n\n\"For further details, see Blade Element Momentum Theory\"\n\nConsider the following figure:\n\nThis is the depiction of the apparent wind speed, as seen by a blade (left of figure). The apparent wind speed is influenced by both the free-stream velocity of the air, and the rotor speed. From this figure, we can see that both the angle formula_32 and the apparent wind speed formula_33 are functions of the rotor speed, formula_2. By extension, the lift and drag forces will also be functions of formula_2. This means that the axial and tangential forces that act on the blade vary with rotor speed. The force in the axial direction is given by the following formula:\n\nAs discussed earlier, a wind turbine would ideally operate at its maximum efficiency for below rated power. Once rated power has been hit, the power is limited. This is for two reasons: ratings on the drivetrain equipment, such as the generator; and second to reduce the loads on the blades. An operating strategy for a wind turbine can thus be divided into a sub-rated-power component, and a rated-power component.\n\nBelow rated power, the wind turbine will ideally operate in such a way that formula_36. On a Torque-rotor speed diagram, this looks as follows:\n\nwhere the black line represents the initial section of the operating strategy for a variable speed stall-regulated wind turbine. Ideally, we would want to stay on the maximum efficiency curve until rated power is hit. However, as the rotor speed increases, the noise levels increase. To counter this, the rotor speed is not allowed to increase above a certain value. This is illustrated in the figure below:\n\nOnce the wind speed has reached a certain level, called rated wind speed, the turbine should not be able to produce any greater levels of power for higher wind speeds. A stall-regulated variable speed wind turbine has no pitching mechanism. However, the rotor speed is variable. The rotor speed can either be increased or decreased by an appropriately designed controller. In reference to the figure illustrated in the blade forces section, it is evident that the angle between the apparent wind speed and the plane of rotation is dependent upon the rotor speed. This angle is termed the angle of attack.\n\nThe lift and drag co-efficients for an airfoil are related to the angle of attack. Specifically, for high angles of attack, an airfoil stalls. That is, the drag substantially increases. The lift and drag forces influence the power production of a wind turbine. This can be seen from an analysis of the forces acting on a blade as air interacts with the blade (see the following link). Thus, forcing the airfoil to stall can result in power limiting. \n\nSo it can be established that if the angle of attack needs to be increased to limit the power production of the wind turbine, the rotor speed must be reduced. Again, this can be seen from the figure in the blade forces section. It can also be seen from considering the torque-rotor speed diagram. In reference to the above torque-rotor speed diagram, by reducing the rotor speed at high wind speeds, the turbine enters the stall region, thus bringing some limiting to the power output.\n\nPitch regulation thus allows the wind turbine to actively change the angle of attack of the air on the blades. This is preferred over a stall-regulated wind turbine as it enables far greater control of the power output.\n\nIdentical to the stall-regulated variable-speed wind turbine, the initial operating strategy is to operate on the formula_37 curve. However, due to constraints such as noise levels, this is not possible for the full range of sub-rated wind speeds. Below the rated wind speed, the following operating strategy is employed:\n\nAbove the rated wind speed, the pitching mechanism is employed. This allows a good level of control over the angle of attack, thus control over the torque. The previous torque rotor-speed diagrams are all plots when the pitch angle, formula_38, is zero. A three dimensional plot can be produced which includes variations in pitch angle.\n\nUltimately, in the 2D plot, above rated wind speed, the turbine will operate at the point marked 'x' on the diagram below.\n\nA variable speed may or may not have a gearbox, depending on the manufacturer's desires. Wind turbines without gearboxes are called direct-drive wind turbines. An advantage of a gearbox is that generators are typically designed to have the rotor rotating at a high speed within the stator. Direct drive wind turbines do not exhibit this feature. A disadvantage of a gearbox is reliability and failure rates.\n\nAn example of a wind turbine without a gearbox is the Enercon E82.\n\nFor variable speed wind turbines, one of two types of generators can be used: a DFIG (doubly fed induction generator) or an FRC (fully rated converter). \n\nA DFIG generator draws reactive power from the transmission system; this can increase the vulnerability of a transmission system in the event of a failure. A DFIG configuration will require the generator to be a wound rotor; squirrel cage rotors cannot be used for such a configuration.\n\nA fully rated converter can either be an induction generator or a permanent magnet generator. Unlike the DFIG, the FRC can employ a squirrel cage rotor in the generator; an example of this is the Siemens SWT 3.6-107, which is termed the industry workhorse. An example of a permanent magnet generator is the Siemens SWT-2.3-113. A disadvantage of a permanent magnet generator is the cost of materials that need to be included.\n\nConsider a variable speed wind turbine with a permanent magnet synchronous generator. The generator produces AC electricity. The frequency of the AC voltage generated by the wind turbine is a function of the speed of the rotor within the generator:\n\nformula_39\n\nwhere formula_40 is the rotor speed, formula_10 is the number of poles in the generator, and formula_42 is the frequency of the output Voltage. That is, as the wind speed varies, the rotor speed varies, and so the frequency of the Voltage varies. This form of electricity cannot be directly connected to a transmission system. Instead, it must be corrected such that its frequency is constant. For this, power converters are employed, which results in the de-coupling of the wind turbine from the transmission system. As more wind turbines are included in a national power system, the inertia is decreased. This means that the frequency of the transmission system is more strongly affected by the loss of a single generating unit.\n\nAs already mentioned, the voltage generated by a variable speed wind turbine is non-grid compliant. In order to supply the transmission network with power from these turbines, the signal must be passed through a power converter, which ensures that the frequency of the voltage of the electricity being generated by the wind turbine is the frequency of the transmission system when it is transferred onto the transmission system. Power converters first convert the signal to DC, and then convert the DC signal to an AC signal. Techniques used include pulse width modulation.\n"}
{"id": "38873264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38873264", "title": "Verticalization", "text": "Verticalization\n\nIn urbanism, verticalization is the rapid increase of inner city apartment high-rise buildings, resulting in the development of \"vertical\" city parts and urban densification.\n\nAlthough both verticalization and densification processes in cities can provide several advantages, such modifications in the urban landscape were implemented extremely fast, especially after the Second World War.\n\nIn order to increase densities, urban housing policies encouraged new forms of vertical building. The process of verticalization is also related to consumer culture and symbols of power.\n"}
