{"id": "8688887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8688887", "title": "Antarctic and Southern Ocean Coalition", "text": "Antarctic and Southern Ocean Coalition\n\nThe Antarctic and Southern Ocean Coalition (ASOC) is a global coalition of environmental non-governmental organizations with more than 150 members in 40 countries worldwide. ASOC has worked since 1978 to ensure that the Antarctic Continent, its surrounding islands and the great Southern Ocean survive as the world's last unspoiled wilderness, a global commons for the heritage of future generations. ASOC is supported entirely through donations from individual supporters around the world, dues from its members and grants from foundations. \nThe Secretariat of the Antarctic and Southern Ocean Coalition (ASOC), which includes 150 organizations in 40 countries, is based in Washington, D.C. The ASOC Council includes member groups that have paid dues or provided significant in-kind services to the ASOC campaign team.\n\nASOC aims to advocate on behalf of the Antarctic environment and ecosystems. Major campaigns include the Antarctic Krill Conservation Project, which works to protect the base of the Antarctic food web, regulating commercial tourism, protecting the Ross Sea, strengthening the Southern Ocean Whale Sanctuary, protecting seamounts, managing Southern Ocean fisheries sustainably, and implementing the Protocol on Environmental Protection to the Antarctic Treaty.\n\nASOC was founded in 1978 by James Barnes, an environmental lawyer, and 25 other members from Friends of the Earth, World Wildlife Fund, and other environmental organizations. ASOC’s initial objectives were to convince governments to conclude negotiation of the world’s first “ecosystem as a whole” treaty on fishing; prevent oil, gas, and minerals development in the Antarctic by blocking the ratification of the proposed Minerals Convention; and to open up the Antarctic Treaty System to include participation by NGOs and specialist international bodies.\n\nIn 1991, ASOC was granted observer status in the Antarctic Treaty System, and began attending annual meetings. ASOC has expanded its portfolio to include issues such as tourism, shipping, and climate change.\n\n"}
{"id": "35295077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35295077", "title": "Archipelagoes of Patagonia", "text": "Archipelagoes of Patagonia\n\nThe landmass known as Patagonia hosts a series of archipelagoes, all of them located on its western and southern coast. These archipelagoes, with the exception of Tierra del Fuego and some islands in Argentina's Atlantic Ocean, lie mainly in Chile and in the Pacific Ocean, covering about one third of Chile's coast.\n\nThe United States Hydrographic Office, stated in its South America Pilot (1916):\n\"The Patagonian Archipelago, the range of islands lying west of Tierra del Fuego and stretching along the western coast of Patagonia for 11° of latitude north of the western entrance to Magellan Strait, is about as inhospitable a land as is to be found in the globe, especially in its more southern parts. The land is mountainous, presenting an alternation of matted forest, bare rock, and deep bogs, and is cut up by deep channels into peninsulas and islands whose forms are yet very imperfectly known. Drenching rains, varied by snow and sleet, prevail throughout the year, while furious westerly gales succeed each other with rapidity. The scenery is magnificently stern, but is seldom seen to advantage, the clouds and mists usually screening the higher peaks and snow fields. Glaciers, however, extend in many places either nearly or quite to the level of the sea. In such a climate life is scarce, sea fowl and a few wild fowl being the main representatives of the animal kingdom.The scenery in the western portion of the Strait is grand and savage. The snow-capped peaks supply ice and snow for numerous glaciers, which descend nearly to the sea in some places, and frequently crown the precipices. Many waterfalls and cascades, some of which are of great height, fall into the bays, furnishing scenery that rivals the fiords of Norway. It is unfortunate for the voyager in these parts that the weather is such as to render exceptional an opportunity to witness this grandeur of the best advantage.\"\nThe archipelagoes of Patagonia include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36287026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36287026", "title": "Arved von Schultz", "text": "Arved von Schultz\n\nArved Carl Ludwig von Schultz (14 November 1883 at Good Rinkuln in Talsen, now Latvia – 13 December 1967 in Hilden at Düsseldorf) was a German geographer.\n\nArved von Schultz was born in Latvia to landowner Erich Von Schultz (1856–1932), who in 1892 was the inspector of goods in the city of Riga, and his wife Valerie of Moczulski. During his holidays from 1901 to 1904 Schultz led study tours in the Caucasus and the Russian Central Asia. Schultz attended the German Eltz'sche Privatgymnasium in Riga and in 1904 passed his exams at Alexander High School. Beginning in 1904 he studied in Moscow and Dorpat and in 1906 Schultz enrolled at the Friedrich-Wilhelms University (now Humboldt University of Berlin) in Berlin. His studied were interrupted in 1905 due to riots in Tartu and he spent half a year traveling through Central Asia. After returning from this trip, Schultz attended the University of Giessen, where he studied geography under Wilhelm Sievers. After another trip in 1909 to the Pamir Mountains, Schultz received his PhD in 1914 at Giessen. His dissertation was on Pamir Tajiks.\n\nIn 1918 while working as a war geographer, Schultz published an atlas of Poland. After the First World War he became a lecturer of geography at the University of Hamburg. In 1923 he became the successor of Prof. Friedrichsen at Albertus University in Königsberg.\nSchultz took long trips to Asia and Russia was considered the one of the top German geographers of his time. He was a board member of the Johann Gottfried von Herder Prize committee.\n\nSchultz married Hella Fanny Gertrude Suhr (born 24 April 1893 Grünfelde; died 2 September 1952 in Düsseldorf-Benrath) on 4 April 1914 at Green Field at Stuhm in West Prussia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59208286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59208286", "title": "Camarata (Mauretania)", "text": "Camarata (Mauretania)\n\nCamarata (, ) was a Carthaginian and Roman port on the Mediterranean near Siga in Mauretania. Under the Romans, it was part of the province of Mauretania Caesariensis. Its ruins are thought to be those at the mouth of the Wadi Ghazer at Sidi Djeloul in Sidi Safi, Algeria.\n\nCamarata released bronze coins stamped with the town's Punic name and a crudely-done head obverse and grapes and an ear of wheat reverse.\n\nAfter the French occupation of Algeria, the area around Camarata became known for its high-quality iron ore.\n\n"}
{"id": "51072652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51072652", "title": "Chiang Dao Wildlife Sanctuary", "text": "Chiang Dao Wildlife Sanctuary\n\nChiang Dao Wildlife Sanctuary () is a protected area in Chiang Mai Province, Thailand. Established on 25 August 1978, the sanctuary covers 521 km of the Doi Chiang Dao and southern mountainous areas of the Daen Lao Range, north of the Thanon Thong Chai Range. The tallest summit is 2,175 m high Doi Chiang Dao.\n\nThe sanctuary area is covered by various forest types, depending on altitude, including dry evergreen forests, hill evergreen forests, coniferous forests, deciduous dipterocarp forests, and meadows. It is the home to a number of endangered species of animals, such as long-tailed gorals (\"Naemorhedus caudatus\"), Sumatran serows (\"Capricornis sumatraensis\"), Asian golden cats (\"Catopuma temminckii\"), and big-headed turtles (\"Platysternon megacephalum\"). Deignan's babblers (\"Stachyridopsis rodolphei\") and \"Huia melasma\" are endemic to this area.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21188867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21188867", "title": "Council for Economic Planning and Development", "text": "Council for Economic Planning and Development\n\nThe Council for Economic Planning and Development (CEPD; ) was a government agency responsible for drafting overall plans for national economic development in the Taiwan (ROC). It also assessed development projects, proposals and programmes submitted to the Executive Yuan. It also coordinated the economic policy making activities of ministries and agencies and the monitoring the implementation of development projects, measures and programmes. The CEPD acted in an advisory role to the central government in formulating economic policies. The chairperson reported to the Minister and three Vice Ministers and one Secretary-General.\n\nThe members of the council included bureaucrats from other agencies. They included:\n\nThe agency was established in 1948 as the Council for United States Aid (CUSA) which was established as part of the Sino-American Economic Aid Agreement signed between the Republic of China and the United States in the same year. In September 1963, CUSA was reformed as the Council for International Economic Cooperation and Development (CIECD) then as the Economic Planning Council (EPC) in 1973 to strengthen the planning and research functions of the Executive Yuan. In December 1977, the EPC was merged with the Finance and Economic Committee and reorganised as the CEPD to promote comprehensive national economic development. On 22 January 2014, CEPD was merged with Research, Development and Evaluation Commission to form the National Development Council.\n\nThe internal structure of the agency was as follows:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55065242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55065242", "title": "Darzamat (crater)", "text": "Darzamat (crater)\n\nDarzamat is a large crater in the southern hemisphere of the dwarf planet Ceres, located at 44.21° S, 76.4 ° E. It has a diameter of 92 km. The crater is named after Darzamate or Dārza-māte; Latvian spirit, 'mother of the garden'. It was officially named by the IAU on October 15, 2015.\n\nNearby prominent craters are Tupo to the east, Chaminuka further east-southeast, Hamori to the south and Sintana to the west.\n"}
{"id": "22755262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22755262", "title": "Filip Hjulström", "text": "Filip Hjulström\n\nHenning Filip Hjulström (6 October 1902 – 26 March 1982) was a Swedish geographer. Hjulström was professor of geography at Uppsala University from 1944, and in 1949, when the subject of geography was split, he became professor of Physical Geography. \n\nFilip Hjulström's doctoral thesis, \"The River Fyris\", contained one of the first quantitative studies of geomorphological processes ever published. It was a study of sediment transport and soil erosion in the drainage area of the river Fyrisån, based on a daily water sample that he took as he passed on the way to the department, and analyzed for suspended sediment content. His students followed in the same vein, making quantitative studies of mass transport (Anders Rapp), fluvial transport (Åke Sundborg), delta deposition (Valter Axelsson), and coastal processes (John O. Norrman). This developed into \"the Uppsala School of Physical Geography\".\n\nHjulström is most known for creating the Hjulström curve, which describes the thresholds for erosion and deposition of particles in running water. \n\nHjulström's son Lennart Hjulström went on to become a notable Swedish actor that had two children with Ulla (née Söderdal), Niklas Hjulström and Carin Hjulström, also actors. Lennart also had a child, Hannah Nyroos with his current wife, Gunilla Nyroos, an actress.\n\n"}
{"id": "360750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=360750", "title": "Frederick Catherwood", "text": "Frederick Catherwood\n\nFrederick Catherwood (27 February 1799 – 27 September 1854) was an English artist, architect and explorer, best remembered for his meticulously detailed drawings of the ruins of the Maya civilization. He explored Mesoamerica in the mid 19th century with writer John Lloyd Stephens. Their books, \"Incidents of Travel in Central America, Chiapas and Yucatán\" and \"Incidents of Travel in Yucatán\", were best sellers and introduced to the Western world the civilization of the ancient Maya. In 1837, Catherwood was elected into the National Academy of Design as an Honorary member.\n\nCatherwood, having made many trips to the Mediterranean between 1824 and 1832 to draw the monuments made by the Egyptians, Carthaginians, and Phoenicians, stated that the monuments in the Americas bear no architectural similarity to those in the Old World. Thus, they must have been made by the native people of the area.\n\nCatherwood made visits to Greece, Turkey, Egypt, and Palestine and with Joseph Bonomi the Younger made drawings and watercolors of the ancient remains there. During a six-week period in 1833, Catherwood was probably the first Westerner to make a detailed survey of the Dome of the Rock in Jerusalem.\n\nCatherwood developed a sizeable reputation as a topographical artist. He perfected a drawing technique which used the \"camera lucida\" and supplied the drawings for the panoramas of Jerusalem and Thebes shown by Robert Burford in Leicester Square.\n\nIn 1836 he met travel writer John Lloyd Stephens in London. They read the account of the ruins of Copán published by Juan Galindo, and decided to try to visit Central America themselves and produce a more detailed and better illustrated account. The expedition came together in 1839 and continued through the following year, visiting dozens of ruins and resulting in the detailed description of 44 sites, many for the first time. Stephens and Catherwood are credited for the \"rediscovery\" of the Maya civilization, and through their publications brought the Maya back into the minds of the Western World.\n\nThe expedition resulted in the book \"Incidents of Travel in Central America, Chiapas, and Yucatan\", published in 1841, with text by Stephens and engravings based on the drawings of Catherwood.\n\nStephens and Catherwood returned to Yucatan to make further explorations, resulting in \"Incidents of Travel in Yucatan\" in 1843.\n\nThe following year Catherwood published \"Views of Ancient Monuments in Central America, Chiapas and Yucatan\", with 25 colour lithographs from watercolours he made at various ruins. This folio was published in May 1844 simultaneously in London and New York in an edition of 300. Some 282 copies are known to survive, mostly held in private collections or libraries.\n\nA large number of his original drawings and paintings were destroyed when the building where he was exhibiting them in New York City caught fire, but a number survive in museums and private collections, often showing more detail than the published engravings.\n\nWith the California Gold Rush Catherwood moved to San Francisco, California to open up a store to supply miners and prospectors, which he considered a more likely way to make money than chasing after the gold himself.\n\nIn 1854, Frederick Catherwood was a passenger aboard the steamship \"Arctic\", making a crossing of the Atlantic Ocean from Liverpool to New York. On 27 September in conditions of poor visibility, the \"Arctic\" collided with the French steamer \"Vesta\", and sank with much loss of life, including Catherwood. Mysteriously Catherwood's name was left off the official casualty lists for weeks until a concerted effort by his friends and colleagues resulted in a belated inclusion of a single line in the \"New York Herald Tribune\", under the listing of \"The Saved and the Lost: \"Mr Catherwood Also is Missing\"\". He was 55 years old.\n\nTraditionally, it is thought that the only portrait of Catherwood is in the famous Table XXV of Views of Ancient Monuments in Central America, Chiapas and Yucatan, the one with the view of the temple of Tulum. The scholar Fabio Bourbon, after studies and a long reflection, has formulated a different hypothesis. It is well known that during the second expedition in Central America, Stephens and Catherwood were accompanied by a young surgeon (and ornithologist) from Boston, Samuel Cabot. The Cabot family was part of the upper class in Boston: in this case, we are talking about Samuel Cabot III, born in Boston on September 20, 1815. At the time of the trip, he was almost 27 years old. Years later he would become an eminent surgeon and a well known personality in Boston. Samuel III was described as a person rather slender, tall, with light hair and light eyes. There is an image taken by Oliver Wendell Holmes (1809-1894) with members of the Boston Society for Medical Improvement, around 1853 (for the image, see: en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Boston_Society_for_Medical_Improvement). Samuel is seated, third from left. Eleven years had passed since the adventure in Yucatan, but he could very well be the person depicted by Catherwood in the table. Catherwood, in fact, was a pragmatic man, used to document the reality with his pencil. Frederick had no interest to represent himself (he never painted his self-portrait). Why he would have to make an exception? Consequently, most likely the person portrayed in the Table XXV is not Catherwood himself, but the young Cabot.\n\nCatherwood is likely depicted, instead, in the image from Views of Ancient Monuments \"Temple, at Tuloom\" (Catherwood 1844:Plate XXIV) as the figure on the right holding a measuring tape.\nCatherwood has been the subject of the following biographies and studies:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10523629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10523629", "title": "Ganjnameh", "text": "Ganjnameh\n\nGanj Nameh ( literally: \"Treasure epistle\") is an ancient inscription, 5 km south-west of Hamedan, on the side of Alvand Mountain in Iran. The inscriptions were carved in granite in two sections. The one on the left was ordered by Darius the Great (521-485 BC) and the one on the right by Xerxes the Great (485-465 BC). Both sections were carved in three ancient languages: Old Persian, Neo-Babylonian and Neo-Elamite. The inscriptions start with praise of the Zoroastrian God (Ahura Mazda) and describe the lineage and deeds of the mentioned kings.\n\nLater generations who could not read the Cuneiform alphabets of the ancient Persian assumed that they contained the guide to an uncovered treasure; hence they called it Ganjnameh. The name literally means \"treasure epistle\", but it has also been called Jangnameh () whose literal translation is \"war epistle\".\n\nThe translation of the text on the right plate, attributed to Xerxes, is:\n\n\"The Great God Ahuramazda, greatest of all the gods, who created the earth and the sky and the people; who made Xerxes king, and outstanding king as outstanding ruler among innumerable rulers; I the great king Xerxes, king of kings, king of lands with numerous inhabitants, king of this vast kingdom with far-away territories, son of the Achaemenid monarch Darius.\"\n\nTwo modern contemporary carved tablets have been placed in the site's parking lot with Persian explanation and its English translation.\n"}
{"id": "42139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42139", "title": "Garden", "text": "Garden\n\nA garden is a planned space, usually outdoors, set aside for the display, cultivation, or enjoyment of plants and other forms of nature. The garden can incorporate both natural and man-made materials. The most common form today is known as a residential garden, but the term \"garden\" has traditionally been a more general one. Zoos, which display wild animals in simulated natural habitats, were formerly called \"zoological gardens\". Western gardens are almost universally based on plants, with garden often signifying a shortened form of \"botanical garden\". Some traditional types of eastern gardens, such as Zen gardens, use plants sparsely or not at all.\n\nGardens may exhibit structural enhancements, sometimes called follies, including water features such as fountains, ponds (with or without fish), waterfalls or creeks, dry creek beds, statuary, arbors, trellises and more. Some gardens are for ornamental purposes only, while some gardens also produce food crops, sometimes in separate areas, or sometimes intermixed with the ornamental plants. Food-producing gardens are distinguished from farms by their smaller scale, more labor-intensive methods, and their purpose (enjoyment of a hobby or self-sustenance rather than producing for sale). Flower gardens combine plants of different heights, colors, textures, and fragrances to create interest and delight the senses.\n\nGardening is the activity of growing and maintaining the garden. This work is done by an amateur or professional gardener. A gardener might also work in a non-garden setting, such as a park, a roadside embankment, or other public space. Landscape architecture is a related professional activity with landscape architects tending to specialise in design for public and corporate clients.\n\nThe etymology of the word \"gardening\" refers to enclosure: it is from Middle English \"gardin\", from Anglo-French \"gardin\", \"jardin\", of Germanic origin; akin to Old High German \"gard\", \"gart\", an enclosure or compound, as in Stuttgart. See Grad (Slavic settlement) for more complete etymology. The words \"yard\", \"court\", and Latin \"hortus\" (meaning \"garden,\" hence horticulture and orchard), are cognates—all referring to an enclosed space.\n\nThe term \"garden\" in British English refers to a small enclosed area of land, usually adjoining a building. This would be referred to as a yard in American English.\n\nGarden design is the creation of plans for the layout and planting of gardens and landscapes. Gardens may be designed by garden owners themselves, or by professionals. Professional garden designers tend to be trained in principles of design and horticulture, and have a knowledge and experience of using plants. Some professional garden designers are also landscape architects, a more formal level of training that usually requires an advanced degree and often a state license.\n\nElements of garden design include the layout of hard landscape, such as paths, rockeries, walls, water features, sitting areas and decking, as well as the plants themselves, with consideration for their horticultural requirements, their season-to-season appearance, lifespan, growth habit, size, speed of growth, and combinations with other plants and landscape features. Consideration is also given to the maintenance needs of the garden, including the time or funds available for regular maintenance, which can affect the choices of plants regarding speed of growth, spreading or self-seeding of the plants, whether annual or perennial, and bloom-time, and many other characteristics. Garden design can be roughly divided into two groups, formal and naturalistic gardens.\n\nThe most important consideration in any garden design is, how the garden will be used, followed closely by the desired stylistic genres, and the way the garden space will connect to the home or other structures in the surrounding areas. All of these considerations are subject to the limitations of the budget. Budget limitations can be addressed by a simpler garden style with fewer plants and less costly hardscape materials, seeds rather than sod for lawns, and plants that grow quickly; alternatively, garden owners may choose to create their garden over time, area by area.\n\nMost gardens consist of a mix of natural and constructed elements, although even very 'natural' gardens are always an inherently artificial creation. Natural elements present in a garden principally comprise flora (such as trees and weeds), fauna (such as arthropods and birds), soil, water, air and light. Constructed elements include paths, patios, decking, sculptures, drainage systems, lights and buildings (such as sheds, gazebos, pergolas and follies), but also living constructions such as flower beds, ponds and lawns.\n\nA garden can have aesthetic, functional, and recreational uses:\n\n Back garden Cactus garden \n\nGardens may feature a particular plant or plant type(s);\n\nGardens may feature a particular style or aesthetic:\n\nTypes of garden:\n\nGardeners may cause environmental damage by the way they garden, or they may enhance their local environment.\nDamage by gardeners can include direct destruction of natural habitats when houses and gardens are created; indirect habitat destruction and damage to provide garden materials such as peat, rock for rock gardens, and by the use of tapwater to irrigate gardens; the death of living beings in the garden itself, such as the killing not only of slugs and snails but also their predators such as hedgehogs and song thrushes by metaldehyde slug killer; the death of living beings outside the garden, such as local species extinction by indiscriminate plant collectors; and climate change caused by greenhouse gases produced by gardening.\n\nSome gardeners manage their gardens without using any water from outside the garden, and therefore do not deprive wetland habitats of the water they need to survive. Examples in Britain include Ventnor Botanic Garden on the Isle of Wight, and parts of Beth Chatto's garden in Essex, Sticky Wicket garden in Dorset, and the Royal Horticultural Society's gardens at Harlow Carr and Hyde Hall.\nRain gardens absorb rainfall falling onto nearby hard surfaces, rather than sending it into stormwater drains.\nFor irrigation, see rainwater, sprinkler system, drip irrigation, tap water, greywater, hand pump and watering can.\n\nClimate change will have many impacts on gardens, most of them negative, and these are detailed in 'Gardening in the Global Greenhouse' by Richard Bisgrove and Paul Hadley. Gardens also contribute to climate change. Greenhouse gases can be produced by gardeners in many ways. The three main greenhouse gases are carbon dioxide, methane, and nitrous oxide. Gardeners produce carbon dioxide directly by overcultivating soil and destroying soil carbon, by burning garden 'waste' on bonfires, by using power tools which burn fossil fuel or use electricity generated by fossil fuels, and by using peat. Gardeners produce methane by compacting the soil and making it anaerobic, and by allowing their compost heaps to become compacted and anaerobic. Gardeners produce nitrous oxide by applying excess nitrogen fertiliser when plants are not actively growing so that the nitrogen in the fertiliser is converted by soil bacteria to nitrous oxide.\nGardeners can help to prevent climate change in many ways, including the use of trees, shrubs, ground cover plants and other perennial plants in their gardens, turning garden 'waste' into soil organic matter instead of burning it, keeping soil and compost heaps aerated, avoiding peat, switching from power tools to hand tools or changing their garden design so that power tools are not needed, and using nitrogen-fixing plants instead of nitrogen fertiliser.\n\nOther outdoor spaces that are similar to gardens include:\n\n"}
{"id": "26732377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26732377", "title": "Geodat", "text": "Geodat\n\nGeodat was a commercial project, begun in 1980 and completed by 1991, that provided digital geographic mapping data for commercial users at scales equal to or greater than 1:1,000,000. The term \"Geodat\" was derived from \"GEOgraphic DATa\". Geodat data was primarily \"medium scale\", a nominal 1:100,000, but ranged from 1:50,000 to 1:250,000. The cartographic data was vector-based digitisation of coastline, hydrography, internal and international political boundaries, primary transportation routes and city locations. The data was intended to be used on its own to produce quick, cheap, consistent maps, initially for oil exploration firms. Harry Wassall, the founder of Petroconsultants SA, a Geneva-based energy information services firm, began the project in 1979 by hiring a researcher from the Harvard Laboratory for Computer Graphics and Spatial Analysis, Michael Mainelli, to explore how to automate Petroconsultants' extensive paper map series. Mainelli became Project Director in 1981. Petroconsultants concluded that a cooperative project among the oil firms acknowledged the high degree of overlap in their computer mapping interests.\n\nPetroconsultants SA assessed client interest at a meeting in Geneva on 20–21 August 1981 with attendees from Amoco, BP, Cities Service, Deminex, Elf Acquitaine, Exxon, Gulf and Shell. The need for computerised mapping data was high and the response positive enough to form an advisory committee with paid sponsorship. The sponsors commissioned Petroconsultants to produce four sample digitised maps of the Ivory Coast. The Ivorian pilot project resulted in four 1:200,000 maps with 800 features and 40,000 data points. The pilot established Common Geographic Format (CGF) records, for a time the industry standard for computer cartographic information exchange. These digitised map files, and their attendant file structures, feature codes, segment records, map records, annotation records and set records were reviewed at a meeting in Dublin on 10–11 November 1981 with participation from Amoco, BP, Chevron, Cities Service, Elf Acquitaine, Exxon, Gulf, Phillips Petroleum and Shell. Geodat was formally launched in Houston on 9–10 February 1982 with attendees from Amoco, BP, Chevron, Elf Acquitaine, Exxon, Getty, Gulf, Texas Easter and Union Texas. Four primary sponsors were Shell, BP, Elf Acquitaine and Chevron, while ten other firms were partial sponsors. Full sponsors received a guarantee of six million digitised points (approximately 360 maps) digitised to a specified quality level.\n\nFirst data delivery was in June 1983, consisting of 57 maps and 1.24 million points. By the end of 1985, Geodat had delivered twenty million data points and 750 map sheets in the 1:50,000 to 1:250,000 scale range. Alongside mainstream production for the project sponsors, the Geodat project produced a complete digital map of the world at a scale of 1:1,000,000, MundoCart, in 1985. MundoCart was based on digitisation of paper prints of the United States Defense Mapping Agency's (DMA) Operational Navigation Chart (ONC) 1:1,000,000 scale paper map series, produced by the USA, Australia, Canada, and the United Kingdom. ONC charts were designed to meet the needs of pilots and air crews in medium-and low-altitude navigation and to support military operational planning, intelligence briefings, and other needs. Some 270 1:1million maps, plus six 1:2million maps for Antarctica, resulted in 30 million data points. MundoCart provided numerous commercial and academic Geographic information system (GIS) users with their first complete vector map of the world. The data was sold, along with a complete set of FORTRAN mapping software, by Petroconsultants (CES), a UK subsidiary of Petroconsultants SA, subsequently sold to IHS in 1996, that sponsored the project.\n\nPrior to Geodat, the only complete digital map of the world was World Data Bank 2 (WDB-II), a dataset digitized between 1972 and 1977 by the US Department of State's (DoS) Central Intelligence Agency (CIA). WDBII was of variable scale, nominally 1:3,000,000 but digitised from sources ranging from 1:1,000,000 to 1:4,000,000, and of variable quality. WDB-II was released at nominal cost from 1977, but users desired higher resolution and more consistent quality. Until the release of the US Department of Defense's Digital Chart of the World in 1992, and subsequent free issue from 2006, MundoCart was the primary global GIS database for commercial users. \n\nGeodat was unusual in the 1980s in that the software was often given away free, while data downloads or tapes were charged. Geodat set out a quality management process for digitisation covering acquisition, cataloguing, map stability, transformation algorithms, merging and node coalescing. Geodat also set out a quality standard for comparing digitised maps with source maps, based on using generalisation and interpolation against a maximum orthogonal offset distance. Originally delivered as five large tapes, MundoCart was burned on CD-ROM in 1987. MundoCart was one of the first CD-ROM applications not brought out by the creators, Philips and Sony. In the early releases of MundoCart, a CD-ROM reader accompanied each purchase.\nProduction was based from late 1982 to 1991 in Burleigh House, Newmarket Road in Cambridge, England. Coincidentally, Burleigh House had been the former Star Brewery headquarters and the cellars provided good storage facilities for paper maps. At its height, the project employed 30 people, principally programmers and digitisers. Processing was based on hand digitisation using DEC PDP-11 mincomputers alongside digitisation tables. Further processing was done on DEC VAX computers. The computer programs were almost entirely written in FORTRAN, though some PL/1 and assembler programming was used. At the time, scanning systems were not suitable for large-scale production, but the project did help design, build and use a laser line-following digitiser, combining a laser photovoltaic feedback system with stepper motors, mounted on a cowboy boot sewing machine chassis from the USA. The effect of the laser line-following digitiser was that the operator felt as if he or she was directing the laser along a \"groove\" that followed the line being acquired.\n\nThe Geodat project drew heavily on the experience of the Harvard Laboratory for Computer Graphics and Spatial Analysis, founded in 1963 and disbanded in 1991. Unable to purchase the Laboratory's software while Harvard University was exploring licensing options, Geodat developed its own software. The Laboratory and Geodat both employed \"flat\" computer files and streamed processing, instead of hierarchical and direct access processing. Wherever possible, the software operated in FORTRAN processing sequential files to enhance portability among operating systems. Geodat also emulated other Laboratory ideas, most notably the idea of \"cycling\", using software to resolve disconnected vectors.\n"}
{"id": "10179411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10179411", "title": "Geographic information retrieval", "text": "Geographic information retrieval\n\nGeographic information retrieval (GIR) or geographical information retrieval is the augmentation of information retrieval with geographic information. GIR aims at solving textual queries that include a geographic dimension, such as \"What wars were fought in Greece?\" or \"restaurants in Beirut\". It is common in GIR to separate the text indexing and analysis from the geographic indexing. Semantic similarity and word-sense disambiguation are important components of GIR. To identify place names, GIR often relies on gazetteers.\n\nGIR involves extracting and resolving the meaning of locations in unstructured text. This is known as Geoparsing. After identifying location references in text, a GIR system must index this information for search and retrieval. GIR systems can commonly be broken down into the following stages: GeoTagging, text and geographic indexing, data storage, geographic relevance ranking (with respect to a geographic query) and browsing results (commonly with a map interface).\n\n\nIn 2005 the Cross-Language Evaluation Forum added a geographic track, GeoCLEF. GeoCLEF was the first TREC style evaluation forum for GIR systems and provided participants a chance to compare systems. \n\n"}
{"id": "58975741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58975741", "title": "Geology of Venezuela", "text": "Geology of Venezuela\n\nThe geology of Venezuela includes ancient Precambrian igneous and metamorphic basement rocks, layered with sedimentary rocks from the Paleozoic and Mesozoic and thick geologically recent Cenozoic sediments with extensive oil and gas. \n\nThe oldest rocks in Venezuela formed during the Precambrian and occupy the Guiana shield in the southern tier of the country near Guyana and Brazil, east of the El BaUl swell. In the western Guiana Shield, within the Amazonas Territory, Precambrian Roraima Formation zircon grains have been dated with uranium-lead dating and rubidium-strontium dating. Metamorphism and intrusive activity formed gneiss with sedimentary and igneous protoliths around 1.8 billion years ago. Plutons emplaced granite and tonalite after inferred collision and subduction tectonics until around 1.55 billion years ago. The formation's volcanic rocks were produced 1.74 billion years ago.\n\nMetamorphism was driven in places by the Trans-Amazonian orogeny. Geochemistry research on the Imataca Complex within metaigneous and metasedimentary rocks reaching granulite grade on the sequence of metamorphic facies suggests high temperature decompression, based on assemblages of sillimanite, kyanite, garnet, orthopyroxene, plagioclase and quartz.\n\nThe Paleozoic period in Venezuela is primarily exposed in the Andes and the central-western part of the country. Research in the Merida Andes in the 1960s revealed unmetamorphosed sedimentary rocks from the Ordovician, Silurian, Carboniferous and Permian, as well as metamorphosed slate. During the period, North America and South America collided, producing quartz-feldspar gneiss bodies spanning Paria Peninsula into Trinidad. In western Venezuela, geologists have recognized the Apure allochthon, a remnant Paleozoic mountain belt.\n\nThe Merida Arch, a remnant mountain range from the Pennsylvanian controlled sedimentation in the Tachira, Barquisimeto and Machiques as well as the Maracaibo and Barinas basins. The basins are primarily filled with Jurassic and Cretaceous shallow water carbonates.\nThroughout the Mesozoic, Venezuela was a passive margin of the South American continent. \n\nPull-apart basins began to form, filling with sediments between the Eocene, Oligocene, Miocene and Pliocene. For the most part, Eocene and Oligocene sedimentary rocks survive only in fault-bounded basins.\n\nIn the mid-Cenozoic, fragments of basement rock were detached by collision of the South American and Caribbean plate. The El Mango Gneiss formed. More broadly schist and gneiss formed in the accretionary wedge. \n\nDuring the Miocene and Pliocene, extensive sediments accumulated in the western Guarico Basin and eastern Maturin Basin. \n\nVenezuela has the largest hydrocarbon deposits of any country. Unlike many deposits around the world, which formed during the Mesozoic or Paleozoic, Venezuela's deposits are dominantly Miocene in age within porous delta and coastal plain sediments. \n"}
{"id": "37193046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37193046", "title": "Greenland Plain", "text": "Greenland Plain\n\nThe Greenland Abyssal Plain at is a bathymetric depression in the Greenland Sea. It is delimited by Mohns Ridge and Jan Mayen pressure zone in the South and separated by a smaller ridge to the Boreas Abyssal Plain in the North.\n\nIn 1988/89 ocean acoustic tomography was performed there to study the Greenland Sea gyre and deep water formation. Deep water formation simply means surface water being transported downwards into the ocean, this is important to drive the global ocean currents by thermohaline circulation.\nThe study showed that the mixed layer at the surface forms in autumn. During winter, the region is covered by sea ice. In early spring when the sea ice vanishes, the layer gets thicker (up to 1.5 km). When the Polar day starts in late March the seasonal cycle starts again with another shallow mixed layer.\n"}
{"id": "216601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216601", "title": "Hubble Deep Field", "text": "Hubble Deep Field\n\nThe Hubble Deep Field (HDF) is an image of a small region in the constellation Ursa Major, constructed from a series of observations by the Hubble Space Telescope. It covers an area about 2.6 arcminutes on a side, about one 24-millionth of the whole sky, which is equivalent in angular size to a tennis ball at a distance of 100 metres. The image was assembled from 342 separate exposures taken with the Space Telescope's Wide Field and Planetary Camera 2 over ten consecutive days between December 18 and December 28, 1995.\n\nThe field is so small that only a few foreground stars in the Milky Way lie within it; thus, almost all of the 3,000 objects in the image are galaxies, some of which are among the youngest and most distant known. By revealing such large numbers of very young galaxies, the HDF has become a landmark image in the study of the early universe.\n\nThree years after the HDF observations were taken, a region in the south celestial hemisphere was imaged in a similar way and named the Hubble Deep Field South. The similarities between the two regions strengthened the belief that the universe is uniform over large scales and that the Earth occupies a typical region in the Universe (the cosmological principle). A wider but shallower survey was also made as part of the Great Observatories Origins Deep Survey. In 2004 a deeper image, known as the Hubble Ultra-Deep Field (HUDF), was constructed from a few months of light exposure. The HUDF image was at the time the most sensitive astronomical image ever made at visible wavelengths, and it remained so until the Hubble eXtreme Deep Field (XDF) was released in 2012.\n\nOne of the key aims of the astronomers who designed the Hubble Space Telescope was to use its high optical resolution to study distant galaxies to a level of detail that was not possible from the ground. Positioned above the atmosphere, Hubble avoids atmospheric airglow allowing it to take more sensitive visible and ultraviolet light images than can be obtained with seeing-limited ground-based telescopes (when good adaptive optics correction at visible wavelengths becomes possible, 10 m ground-based telescopes may become competitive). Although the telescope's mirror suffered from spherical aberration when the telescope was launched in 1990, it could still be used to take images of more distant galaxies than had previously been obtainable. Because light takes billions of years to reach Earth from very distant galaxies, we see them as they were billions of years ago; thus, extending the scope of such research to increasingly distant galaxies allows a better understanding of how they evolve.\n\nAfter the spherical aberration was corrected during Space Shuttle mission STS-61 in 1993, the improved imaging capabilities of the telescope were used to study increasingly distant and faint galaxies. The Medium Deep Survey (MDS) used the Wide Field and Planetary Camera 2 (WFPC2) to take deep images of random fields while other instruments were being used for scheduled observations. At the same time, other dedicated programs focused on galaxies that were already known through ground-based observation. All of these studies revealed substantial differences between the properties of galaxies today and those that existed several billion years ago.\n\nUp to 10% of the HST's observation time is designated as Director's Discretionary (DD) Time, and is typically awarded to astronomers who wish to study unexpected transient phenomena, such as supernovae. Once Hubble's corrective optics were shown to be performing well, Robert Williams, the then-director of the Space Telescope Science Institute, decided to devote a substantial fraction of his DD time during 1995 to the study of distant galaxies. A special Institute Advisory Committee recommended that the WFPC2 be used to image a \"typical\" patch of sky at a high galactic latitude, using several optical filters. A working group was set up to develop and implement the project.\n\nThe field selected for the observations needed to fulfill several criteria. It had to be at a high galactic latitude, because dust and obscuring matter in the plane of the Milky Way's disc prevents observations of distant galaxies at low galactic latitudes. The target field had to avoid known bright sources of visible light (such as foreground stars), and infrared, ultraviolet and X-ray emissions, to facilitate later studies at many wavelengths of the objects in the deep field, and also needed to be in a region with a low background infrared 'cirrus', the diffuse, wispy infrared emission believed to be caused by warm dust grains in cool clouds of hydrogen gas (H I regions).\n\nThese criteria restricted the field of potential target areas. It was decided that the target should be in Hubble's 'continuous viewing zones' (CVZs)—the areas of sky which are not occulted by the Earth or the moon during Hubble's orbit. The working group decided to concentrate on the northern CVZ, so that northern-hemisphere telescopes such as the Keck telescopes, the Kitt Peak National Observatory telescopes and the Very Large Array (VLA) could conduct follow-up observations.\n\nTwenty fields satisfying these criteria were initially identified, from which three optimal candidate fields were selected, all within the constellation of Ursa Major. Radio snapshot observations with the VLA ruled out one of these fields because it contained a bright radio source, and the final decision between the other two was made on the basis of the availability of guide stars near the field: Hubble observations normally require a pair of nearby stars on which the telescope's Fine Guidance Sensors can lock during an exposure, but given the importance of the HDF observations, the working group required a second set of back-up guide stars. The field that was eventually selected is located at a right ascension of and a declination of ; it is approximately 2.6 arcminutes in width, or 1/12 the width of the Moon. The area is approximately 1/28,000,000 of the total area of the sky.\n\nOnce a field had been selected, an observing strategy had to be developed. An important decision was to determine which filters the observations would use; WFPC2 is equipped with forty-eight filters, including narrowband filters isolating particular emission lines of astrophysical interest, and broadband filters useful for the study of the colours of stars and galaxies. The choice of filters to be used for the HDF depended on the 'throughput' of each filter—the total proportion of light that it allows through—and the spectral coverage available. Filters with bandpasses overlapping as little as possible were desirable.\n\nIn the end, four broadband filters were chosen, centred at wavelengths of 300 nm (near-ultraviolet), 450 nm (blue light), 606 nm (red light) and 814 nm (near-infrared). Because the quantum efficiency of Hubble's detectors is quite low at 300 nm, the noise in observations at this wavelength is primarily due to CCD noise rather than sky background; thus, these observations could be conducted at times when high background noise would have harmed the efficiency of observations in other passbands.\n\nBetween December 18 and December 28, 1995—during which time Hubble orbited the Earth about 150 times—342 images of the target area in the chosen filters were taken. The total exposure times at each wavelength were 42.7 hours (300 nm), 33.5 hours (450 nm), 30.3 hours (606 nm) and 34.3 hours (814 nm), divided into 342 individual exposures to prevent significant damage to individual images by cosmic rays, which cause bright streaks to appear when they strike CCD detectors. A further 10 Hubble orbits were used to make short exposures of flanking fields to aid follow-up observations by other instruments.\n\nThe production of a final combined image at each wavelength was a complex process. Bright pixels caused by cosmic ray impacts during exposures were removed by comparing exposures of equal length taken one after the other, and identifying pixels that were affected by cosmic rays in one exposure but not the other. Trails of space debris and artificial satellites were present in the original images, and were carefully removed.\n\nScattered light from the Earth was evident in about a quarter of the data frames, creating a visible \"X\" pattern on the images. This was removed by taking an image affected by scattered light, aligning it with an unaffected image, and subtracting the unaffected image from the affected one. The resulting image was smoothed, and could then be subtracted from the bright frame. This procedure removed almost all of the scattered light from the affected images.\n\nOnce the 342 individual images were cleaned of cosmic-ray hits and corrected for scattered light, they had to be combined. Scientists involved in the HDF observations pioneered a technique called 'drizzling', in which the pointing of the telescope was varied minutely between sets of exposures. Each pixel on the WFPC2 CCD chips recorded an area of sky 0.09 arcseconds across, but by changing the direction in which the telescope was pointing by less than that between exposures, the resulting images were combined using sophisticated image-processing techniques to yield a final angular resolution better than this value. The HDF images produced at each wavelength had final pixel sizes of 0.03985 arcseconds.\n\nThe data processing yielded four monochrome images (at 300 nm, 450 nm, 606 nm and 814 nm), one at each wavelength. One image was designated as red (814 nm), the second as green (606 nm) and the third as blue (450 nm), and the three images were combined to give a colour image. Because the wavelengths at which the images were taken do not correspond to the wavelengths of red, green and blue light, the colours in the final image only give an approximate representation of the actual colours of the galaxies in the image; the choice of filters for the HDF (and the majority of Hubble images) was primarily designed to maximize the scientific utility of the observations rather than to create colours corresponding to what the human eye would actually perceive.\n\nThe final images were released at a meeting of the American Astronomical Society in January 1996, and revealed a plethora of distant, faint galaxies. About 3,000 distinct galaxies could be identified in the images, with both irregular and spiral galaxies clearly visible, although some galaxies in the field are only a few pixels across. In all, the HDF is thought to contain fewer than twenty galactic foreground stars; by far the majority of objects in the field are distant galaxies.\n\nThere are about fifty blue point-like objects in the HDF. Many seem to be associated with nearby galaxies, which together form chains and arcs: these are likely to be regions of intense star formation. Others may be distant quasars. Astronomers initially ruled out the possibility that some of the point-like objects are white dwarfs, because they are too blue to be consistent with theories of white dwarf evolution prevalent at the time. However, more recent work has found that many white dwarfs become bluer as they age, lending support to the idea that the HDF might contain white dwarfs.\n\nThe HDF data provided extremely rich material for cosmologists to analyse and by late 2014 the associated scientific paper for the image had received over 900 citations. One of the most fundamental findings was the discovery of large numbers of galaxies with high redshift values.\n\nAs the Universe expands, more distant objects recede from the Earth faster, in what is called the Hubble Flow. The light from very distant galaxies is significantly affected by the cosmological redshift. While quasars with high redshifts were known, very few galaxies with redshifts greater than one were known before the HDF images were produced. The HDF, however, contained many galaxies with redshifts as high as six, corresponding to distances of about 12 billion light-years. Due to redshift the most distant objects in the HDF (Lyman-break galaxies) are not actually visible in the Hubble images; they can only be detected in images of the HDF taken at longer wavelengths by ground-based telescopes.\n\nThe HDF galaxies contained a considerably larger proportion of disturbed and irregular galaxies than the local universe; galaxy collisions and mergers were more common in the young universe as it was much smaller than today. It is believed that giant elliptical galaxies form when spirals and irregular galaxies collide.\n\nThe wealth of galaxies at different stages of their evolution also allowed astronomers to estimate the variation in the rate of star formation over the lifetime of the Universe. While estimates of the redshifts of HDF galaxies are somewhat crude, astronomers believe that star formation was occurring at its maximum rate 8–10 billion years ago, and has decreased by a factor of about 10 since then.\n\nAnother important result from the HDF was the very small number of foreground stars present. For years astronomers had been puzzling over the nature of dark matter, mass which seems to be undetectable but which observations implied made up about 90% of the mass of the Universe. One theory was that dark matter might consist of Massive Astrophysical Compact Halo Objects (MACHOs)—faint but massive objects such as red dwarfs and planets in the outer regions of galaxies. The HDF showed, however, that there were not significant numbers of red dwarfs in the outer parts of our galaxy.\n\nVery-high redshift objects (Lyman-break galaxies) cannot be seen in visible light and generally are detected in infrared or submillimetre wavelength surveys of the HDF instead. Observations with the Infrared Space Observatory (ISO) indicated infrared emission from 13 galaxies visible in the optical images, attributed to large quantities of dust associated with intense star formation. Infrared observations have also been made with the Spitzer Space Telescope. Submillimeter observations of the field have been made with SCUBA on the James Clerk Maxwell Telescope, initially detecting 5 sources, although with very low resolution. Observations have also been made with the Subaru telescope in Hawaii.\n\nX-ray observations by the Chandra X-ray Observatory revealed six sources in the HDF, which were found to correspond to three elliptical galaxies: one spiral galaxy, one active galactic nucleus and one extremely red object, thought to be a distant galaxy containing a large amount of dust absorbing its blue light emissions.\n\nGround-based radio images taken using the VLA revealed seven radio sources in the HDF, all of which correspond to galaxies visible in the optical images. The field has also been surveyed with the Westerbork Synthesis Radio Telescope and the MERLIN array of radio telescopes at 1.4 GHz; the combination of VLA and MERLIN maps made at wavelengths of 3.5 and 20 cm have located 16 radio sources in the HDF-N field, with many more in the flanking fields. Radio images of some individual sources in the field have been made with the European VLBI Network at 1.6 GHz with a higher resolution than the Hubble maps.\n\nAn HDF counterpart in the southern celestial hemisphere was created in 1998: the HDF-South. Created using a similar observing strategy, the HDF-S was very similar in appearance to the original HDF. This supports the cosmological principle that at its largest scale the Universe is homogeneous. The HDF-S survey used the Space Telescope Imaging Spectrograph (STIS) and the Near Infrared Camera and Multi-Object Spectrometer (NICMOS) instruments installed on the HST in 1997; the Hubble Deep Field has since been re-observed several times using WFPC2, as well as by the NICMOS and STIS instruments. Several supernova events were detected by comparing the first and second epoch observations of the HDF-N.\n\nA wider survey, but less sensitive, was carried out as part of the Great Observatories Origins Deep Survey; a section of this was then observed for longer to create the Hubble Ultra-Deep Field, which was the most sensitive optical deep field image for years until the Hubble eXtreme Deep Field was completed in 2012. Images from the Extreme Deep Field, or XDF, were released on 26 September 2012 to a number of media agencies. Images released in the XDF show galaxies which are now believed to have formed in the first 500 million years following the Big Bang.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7645296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7645296", "title": "Index of Sierra Leone-related articles", "text": "Index of Sierra Leone-related articles\n\nArticles (arranged alphabetically) related to Sierra Leone include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43096970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43096970", "title": "Initial Point of Boundary Between U.S. and Mexico", "text": "Initial Point of Boundary Between U.S. and Mexico\n\nThe Initial Point of Boundary Between U.S. and Mexico, Monument No. 258, was first established as a cairn of rocks in 1849 following the signing of the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo. A white marble shaft was manufactured in New York, transported around Cape Horn on the USS Supply to San Diego, and erected and dedicated at the site in Imperial Beach in June, 1851. The marble monument was an obelisk about in height, resting on a marble pedestal. On its top was an inverted acorn to symbolize the strength and stature of the California live oak tree.\n\nIn 1894 it was found that the initial monument had become so mutilated by visitors that its outlines were nearly destroyed, and its inscriptions partly obliterated. The Barlow-Blanco Commission had the monument renovated in San Diego, reconstructed at the site, and protected with an enclosure in 1894. Excepting for normal wear and tear and some slight vandalism, as of 1974 the marble monument as reconstructed in 1894 still stood at its original site.\n\nThe significance of the monument is stated in the inscription on the west side of the original marble shaft:\n\n\"Initial point of Boundary between the United States and Mexico, established by the Joint Commission, 10 October, A.D. 1849, Agreeably to the Treaty dated at the City of Guadalupe, Hidalgo, February 2, A.D. 1848. John B. Weller, U.S. Commissioner. Andrew B. Gray, U.S. Surveyor.\nThe monument is the westernmost boundary marker on the international boundary between the United States and Mexico and as such has since its erection and will throughout the future mark the southwestern corner of the Continental United States.\nPursuant to President Richard Nixon's \"Legacy of Parks\", Mrs. Pat Nixon in August 1971 turned over of surplus Navy land, formerly known as Border Field, to the people of California as a beach park. The area is now known as Border Field State Park. In 1994, access to the boundary marker was inhibited from the United States side by Operation Gatekeeper.\n\n"}
{"id": "28940137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28940137", "title": "International rankings of Bahrain", "text": "International rankings of Bahrain\n\nThese are the international rankings of Bahrain.\n\nFreedom in the World is a yearly survey and report by U.S.-based Freedom House that attempts to measure the degree of democracy and political freedom in every nation and significant disputed territories around the world.\n\nBahrain net change in aggregate score declined by more than 4 points. From 2008 to 2012 Bahrain net change in aggregate score declined by 17 points, making it the fourth country declining globally in that period.\n\nFreedom of the Press is a yearly report by US-based non-governmental organization Freedom House, measuring the level of freedom and editorial independence enjoyed by the press in every nation and significant disputed territories around the world. Levels of freedom are scored on a scale from 1 (most free) to 100 (least free). Depending on the ratings, the nations are then classified as \"Free\", \"Partly Free\", or \"Not Free\".\n\nThe Press Freedom Index is an annual ranking of countries compiled and published by Reporters Without Borders based upon the organization's assessment of their press freedom records.\n\nThe Democracy Index is an index compiled by the Economist Intelligence Unit that measures the state of democracy in 167 countries, of which 166 are sovereign states and 165 are UN member states. The Economist Intelligence Unit's Democracy Index is based on 60 indicators grouped in five different categories: electoral process and pluralism, civil liberties, functioning of government, political participation and political culture. The Index was first produced in 2006, with updates produced in 2008, 2010 and 2011.\n\nFreedom on the Net is a yearly survey and report by U.S.-based Freedom House.\n"}
{"id": "22006138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22006138", "title": "Jonas Ennery", "text": "Jonas Ennery\n\nJonas Ennery (Jan. 2, 1801, Nancy - May 19, 1863, Brussels) was a French deputy. He was for twenty-six years attached to the Jewish school of Strasbourg, of which he became the head. In collaboration with Hirth, he compiled a \"Dictionnaire Général de Géographie Universelle\" (4 vols., Strasburg, 1839–41), for which Cuvier wrote a preface. Soon afterward he published \"Le Sentier d'Israël, ou Bible des Jeunes Israélites\" (Paris, Metz, and Strasburg, 1843). At the request of the \"Société des Bons Livres\" he took part in the editorship of \"Prières d'un Cœur Israélite\", which appeared in 1848.\n\nIn 1849, despite anti-Jewish rioting in Alsace, Ennery was elected representative for the department of the Lower Rhine, and sat among the members of the \"Mountain.\" He devoted his attention principally to scholastic questions. After the coup d'état he resisted the new order of things, and was exiled for life in 1852. He retired to Brussels, where he lived as a teacher until his death.\n\nEnnery's brother, Marchand Ennery, was the chief rabbi of Paris.\n"}
{"id": "1200745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1200745", "title": "Kivu", "text": "Kivu\n\nKivu was the name for a large \"Region\" in the Democratic Republic of Congo under the rule of Mobutu Sese Seko that bordered Lake Kivu. It included three \"Sub-Regions\" (\"Sous-Regions\" in French): Nord-Kivu, Sud-Kivu and Maniema, corresponding to the three current provinces created in 1986. The capital of the Kivu Region was in Bukavu, and the capitals of the three Sub-Regions were in Goma, Uvira and Kindu.\n\nKivu is also the name for the entire region surrounding Lake Kivu, including the portions in Rwanda which contain the vast majority of the lake area's population (the contiguous towns of Goma, Democratic Republic of Congo and Gisenyi, Rwanda, with a combined population approaching 1,000,000, form the largest urbanised area in the Lake Kivu area). The area is characterized by lush vegetation and an extended growing season due in part to its high altitude (1500 m or 4900 ft at the lakeshore) and the volcanic nature of its soil. The Kivu region represents the high point of the East African Rift Valley.\n\nThe lake itself contains a massive amount of carbon dioxide in its depths, and there is some concern that tectonic activity (rifting) and/or volcanic activity might cause a sudden release of this captured carbon dioxide. If this were to happen it would devastate the population around the lake; however, the likelihood of this occurring is in dispute with arguments on both sides.\n"}
{"id": "3964400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3964400", "title": "Knickpoint", "text": "Knickpoint\n\nIn geomorphology, a knickpoint or nickpoint is part of a river or channel where there is a sharp change in channel slope, such as a waterfall or lake. Knickpoints reflect different conditions and processes on the river, often caused by previous erosion due to glaciation or variance in lithology. In the cycle of erosion model, knickpoints advance one cycle upstream, or inland, replacing an older cycle.\n\nKnickpoints are formed by the influence of tectonics, climate history, and/or lithology. For example, uplift along a fault over which a river is flowing will often result in an unusually steep reach along a channel, known as a \"knickzone\". Glaciation resulting in a hanging valley are often prime spots for knickpoints. If lithology of the rock varies, such as shale amongst igneous rock, erosion will occur more steadily in the softer rock than the surrounding, tougher rock.\n\nBase level is the elevation of the surface of the water body into which a river ultimately drains, usually the ocean. A drop in base level causes a response by the river system to carve into the landscape. This incision begins at the formation of a knickpoint, and its upstream migration depends heavily upon the drainage area (and so the discharge of the river), material through which it cuts, and how large the drop in base level was.\n\nKnickpoints include both waterfalls and some lakes. These features are common in rivers with a sufficient slope, i.e. enough change in elevation above sea level over their length to encourage degradation.\n\nVariations in stability of the underlying rock influence development of a bedrock-channeled river, as the waters erode different rock types at different rates. Victoria Falls, on the Zambezi River, is a spectacular example of this. The gorges visible by satellite imagery illustrate the erosional processes behind the formation of the falls. Here, much of the surface rock is a massive basalt sill, with large cracks filled with easily weathered sandstone made visible by the Zambezi's course across the land. The gorges downstream of the falls through which it flows were eroded over time by the action of the water.\n\nThroughout New Zealand, tectonic uplift and faulting are actively contributing to knickpoint initiation and recession. The Waipoua River system, on the North island, has been studied and used to create mathematical models to predict the behavior of knickpoints. The study showed a direct correlation between upstream drainage area and rate of migration, producing modeled data closely approximating the collected data. The Waipoua River system incises through sediments, for the most part, as opposed to bedrock.\n\nSharp changes in slope are common in rivers flowing through the heavily carved landscape left behind when glaciers retreat. Glacial valleys, as well as isostatic rebound resulting from the removal of the mass of glacial ice contribute to this.\n\nNiagara Falls, on the border of the United States and Canada, is a characteristic example of knickpoint. The falls have slowed in migration from approximately 1m per year as of 1900 to their modern 10 cm per year. The falls, particularly Horseshoe Falls, are dramatically steep and caused by glaciation. The Great Lakes themselves lie in the depressions left behind by glaciers, as the crust is still rebounding.\n\nBridalveil Fall, in Yosemite Valley, California, pours over the lip of a hanging valley.\n\nEvidence of a knickpoint in the geologic past can be preserved in the shape of the bedrock below any subsequent depositions, as well as within sedimentary depositions left unchanged by human or other activity. Lakes characteristically fill in with sediment over time, but waterfalls often erode away. There are few obvious, dry examples still visible today of prehistoric knickpoints.\n\nDry Falls, a 3.5 mi long precipice in central Washington, is an example of an ancient knickpoint. Geologic evidence strongly suggests that the water which formed this feature flowed over the Channeled Scablands, bursting from the glacial lake Missoula during an event known as the Missoula Floods and into the Columbia River Gorge.\n\nOn the Upper Cumberland River, Tennessee, there exist a series of hydrologically abandoned caves which still hold river-deposited sediments. These caves were the subject of an effort to measure the rate of knickpoint migration along the river, as well as to approximate the discharge of the river over time. In karst topography, a river dropping in level influences more than just its channel; as there is no longer water flowing at a certain level, caves and water tables will drop locally to the new level.\n\nLarge drainages into the oceans the world over can be seen to have continued over land which was once exposed, whether due to tectonic subsidence, sea level rise, or other factors. Bathymetric imagery is available for much of the United States' western coast, and in particular the ocean floor just offshore of rivers in the Pacific Northwest exhibit such underwater features.\n\nIn certain locations there are still knickpoints preserved in these drowned river channels and valleys. A study conducted within the Mediterranean basin focused on such features. Here, incision was caused by the closing of the Mediterranean at the end of the Miocene. This sudden lack of ocean water influx allowed the basin to decrease in volume and increase in salinity, and as a result of the drop in surface level many of the rivers which flow still today into the Mediterranean began to incise.\n\nAs is observed for many major waterfalls, knickpoints migrate upstream due to bedrock erosion leaving in their wake deep channels and abandoned floodplains, which then become terraces. Knickpoint retreat is easily demonstrated in some locations affected by postglacial isostatic response and relative sea-level drop such as in Scotland. In other areas, dating of exposed bedrock terraces is more consistent with spatially uniform incision and persistence of the knickzone at about the same location.\n\nA river, having gained or lost potential energy with its changed slope, will then proceed to work the knickpoints out of its system by either erosion (in the case of waterfalls; gained potential energy) or deposition (in the case of lakes; lost potential energy) in order for the river to reattain its smooth concave graded profile.\n\nThe rates of knickpoint migration, in the case of waterfalls, generally range between 1mm and 10 cm per year, with some exceptional values.\n\nKnickpoint propagation is typically modelled with the semi empirical stream power law where the drainage basin size is used as a proxy for discharge, which in turn has a positive nonlinear correlation to the rate of knickpoint migration.\nBoth analytical\n\nand numerical solutions\n\nKnickpoints and knickzones can be semiautomatically extracted from Digital Elevation Models in Geographic Information System software (i.e. ArcGIS). The problem with most of existing methods is that they are frequently subjective and require time-consuming data processing. A solution for these problems is a tool designed for ArcGIS, called Knickzone Extraction Tool (KET) which vastly automates the extraction process.\n\n"}
{"id": "539294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539294", "title": "List of Absolutely Fabulous episodes", "text": "List of Absolutely Fabulous episodes\n\nThe following is a list of episodes for the British sitcom \"Absolutely Fabulous\" that originally ran from 1992 to 1995 for three series, with a two-part special in 1996. It returned in 2001 for two more series until 2003 along with specials in 2002, 2003 and 2004 (and a short Comic Relief sketch in 2005). Three more specials aired from 2011 to 2012 (plus a short Sport Relief sketch). There have been a total of 39 episodes.\n\nPrior to the third series, a dramatized behind-the-scenes special was broadcast on 6 January 1995. The special was titled 'How to Be Absolutely Fabulous' and featured Jennifer Saunders as she enters the BBC studio in which the woman at reception is unaware of who Saunders is. Unable to convince the receptionist that she is in fact Edina for the series, Saunders, along with the camera crew runs up to the \"Absolutely Fabulous\" office, despite being refused access from the receptionist. Once in the office, Saunders talks about the origins of the series. The special features clips from the series.\n\nA second special, released in 1998 and titled 'Absolutely Fabulous: A Life' features Edina and her mother as she and a camera crew are filming the story of Edina's life in a documentary. The setting for the documentary is in the charity shop in which her mother works. Edina talks about her surroundings in the charity shop, a setting that she is unaccustomed to and certainly is not to her taste. She also reminisces about her life. The special features clips from the series.\n\nA behind-the-scenes special documentary, \"The Story Of Absolutely Fabulous\", was broadcast on 2 January 2004. The special gives a definitive account of the history of the series.\n\nA Comic Relief sketch was broadcast on 11 March 2005 which sees Edina and Patsy reluctantly accompany Emma Bunton to the taping of Comic Relief at the BBC Television Centre. Inside, a member of the production staff can't find Emma's name on the list of presenters, prompting Edina to suggest they check again under Queen Noor or Lulu. Emma and Edina bicker in a dressing room when Edina insists that the point of Emma's participation should be to gain greater exposure for herself. Edina urges Emma to lobby director and Comic Relief founder Richard Curtis for a role in one of his films. When Richard visits the dressing room to apologise for Emma having been left off the list, Edina and Patsy fail to recognise him and ask him to fetch Richard straightaway. Emma angrily writes a cheque to the charity and storms off. When the production staffer returns to collect Emma (now scheduled to appear after Graham Norton), Edina and Patsy first conceal (in the dressing room) and then loudly acknowledge (on-stage, live, during the Comic Relief special) Emma's departure. Patsy is struck by stage fright while Edina attempts a song. Once Patsy wets herself, both are quickly shooed from the stage by a horrified Graham. Guest stars include Emma Bunton, Richard Curtis, Graham Norton and Miranda Hart.\n\nA Sport Relief special was broadcast on 23 March 2012 and follows Edina as she is busy training for a Sport Relief charity function with Emma Bunton with disastrous results while Patsy fills in for her downstairs in a meeting with Stella McCartney. Patsy ends up taking the credit for Edina's idea to feature Kate Moss and David Gandy in the magazine, but the only condition is that Patsy must not let Edina anywhere near the shoot. In the gym upstairs, Edina boxes with David Haye and she and Emma end up fighting. Emma punches Edina who ends up getting wheeled through the hotel bar on a stretcher. Guest stars include Llewella Gideon, Kate Moss, Stella McCartney, Emma Bunton, David Gandy, Colin Jackson, Linford Christie and David Haye.\n\n1:.The 20th Anniversary specials have been mistakenly referred to as the sixth series, but were not produced as such. The 20th Anniversary does appear above in the series overview table under the \"Series\" section, this is only due to the fact that these episodes did not directly follow a series, like the previous four specials have done, therefore, they cannot be placed in the \"Special(s)\" section. \n\n"}
{"id": "1939228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1939228", "title": "List of Belgrade neighbourhoods and suburbs", "text": "List of Belgrade neighbourhoods and suburbs\n\nBelow is a list of the neighbourhoods and suburbs of Belgrade, the capital city of Serbia. Each neighbourhood or suburb is categorised by the municipality in which it is situated.\n\nThe City of Belgrade is divided into seventeen municipalities, of which ten are urban and seven suburban. Six of these ten urban municipalities are completely within the bounds of Belgrade City Proper, while the remaining four have both urban and suburban parts. The seven suburban municipalities, on the other hand, are completely located within suburban bounds.\n\nMunicipalities of the City of Belgrade are officially divided into local communities (Serbian: месна заједница / \"mesna zajednica\"). These are arbitrary administrative units which on occasion correspond to the neighbourhoods and suburbs located in a municipality, though usually they don't. Their boundaries often change as the communities merge with each other, split from one another, or change names, so the historical and traditional names of the neighbourhoods survive.\n\nIn the majority of cases, especially in the old urban areas of Belgrade, the neighbourhoods and suburbs don't have firm geographical or administrative boundaries. This sometimes causes confusion even among Belgraders, as many have different views on where one neighbourhood or suburb ends and another begins. Cases of this kind of contention include:\n\n\"Suburban:\"\n\n\"Urban:\"\n\n\"Suburban:\"\n\n\"Suburban:\"\n\nNeighbourhoods of Kaluđerica:\n\nNeighbourhoods of Vrčin:\n\n\"Suburban:\"\n\n\"Suburban:\"\n\n\"Urban:\"\n\n\"Suburban:\"\n\n\"Urban:\"\n\n\"Suburban:\"\n\n\"Neighbourhoods of Borča:\"\n\n\"Neighbourhoods of Padinska Skela:\"\n\n\"Urban:\"\n\n\"Urban:\"\n\n\"Suburban:\"\n\n\"Urban:\"\n\n\"Suburban:\"\n\n\"Urban:\"\n\n\" Suburban:\"\n\n\"Neighbourhoods of Ripanj:\"\n\n\"Urban:\"\n\n\"Urban:\"\n\n\"Suburban:\"\n\n\"Urban:\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1750893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1750893", "title": "List of Commonwealth visits made by Elizabeth II", "text": "List of Commonwealth visits made by Elizabeth II\n\nQueen Elizabeth II became Head of the Commonwealth upon the death of her father, King George VI, on 6 February 1952. Since then, she has toured the Commonwealth of Nations and their territories and dependencies widely. She has visited all except Cameroon and Rwanda, two of the most recent members.\n\nTours of the British Islands are excluded from the list below.\n\n"}
{"id": "317107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=317107", "title": "List of airports by IATA code: I", "text": "List of airports by IATA code: I\n\nThe DST column shows the months in which Daylight Saving Time, a.k.a. Summer Time, begins and ends. A blank DST box usually indicates that the location stays on Standard Time all year, although in some cases the location stays on Summer Time all year. If a location is currently on DST, add one hour to the time in the Time column.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17797090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17797090", "title": "List of bridges and tunnels in Macau", "text": "List of bridges and tunnels in Macau\n\nThe following is an incomplete List of bridges and tunnels in Macau, China.\n\nAs parts of Macau are islands and surrounded by islands in mainland China, bridges are a critical infrastructures in the city.\nMacau had one causeway when Coloane and Taipa were separate islands. The roadway was not a bridge, but a road built on top of the water. The two islands have since been infilled and the former causeway is now an inland roadway.\nMacau currently has several tunnels. One connects two neighbourhoods on Macau Peninsula cutoff by hills, and one connects Cotai with University of Macau Hengqin Campus. There are also other tunnels on the island of Taipa.\n\n"}
{"id": "59226280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59226280", "title": "List of countries by United Nations geoscheme", "text": "List of countries by United Nations geoscheme\n\nThis is a list of countries by United Nations geoscheme, including some territories and dependencies, non-sovereign states including associated states and entities whose sovereignty is disputed.\n\nThe UN M.49 codes are listed from smallest to largest region, left to right.\n"}
{"id": "58549268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58549268", "title": "List of countries by dependency ratio", "text": "List of countries by dependency ratio\n\nDependency ratios are a measure of the age structure of a population. They relate the number of individuals that are likely to be economically \"dependent\" on the support of others. Dependency ratios contrast the ratio of youths (ages 0-14) and the elderly (ages 65+) to the number of those in the working-age group (ages 15-64). Changes in the dependency ratio provide an indication of potential social support requirements resulting from changes in population age structures. As fertility levels decline, the dependency ratio initially falls because the proportion of youths decreases while the proportion of the population of working age increases. As fertility levels continue to decline, dependency ratios eventually increase because the proportion of the population of working age starts to decline and the proportion of elderly persons continues to increase.\n\ntotal dependency ratio - The total dependency ratio is the ratio of combined youth population (ages 0-14) and elderly population (ages 65+) per 100 people of working age (ages 15-64). A high total dependency ratio indicates that the working-age population and the overall economy face a greater burden to support and provide social services for youth and elderly persons, who are often economically dependent.\n\nyouth dependency ratio - The youth dependency ratio is the ratio of the youth population (ages 0-14) per 100 people of working age (ages 15-64). A high youth dependency ratio indicates that a greater investment needs to be made in schooling and other services for children.\n\nelderly dependency ratio - The elderly dependency ratio is the ratio of the elderly population (ages 65+) per 100 people of working age (ages 15-64). Increases in the elderly dependency ratio put added pressure on governments to fund pensions and healthcare.\n\npotential support ratio - The potential support ratio is the number of working-age people (ages 15-64) per one elderly person (ages 65+). As a population ages, the potential support ratio tends to fall, meaning there are fewer potential workers to support the elderly.\n\nAll data is for the year 2015. Source is the CIA World Factbook.\n"}
{"id": "1962385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1962385", "title": "List of extreme points of Brazil", "text": "List of extreme points of Brazil\n\nThis is a list of the extreme points of Brazil.\n\nThe following points are farther north, south, east or west than any other location.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47774369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47774369", "title": "List of lighthouses in the Balearic Islands", "text": "List of lighthouses in the Balearic Islands\n\nThis is a list of lighthouses in the Balearic Islands. The Spanish archipelago lies at the western end of the Mediterranean Sea.\n\n"}
{"id": "8320362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8320362", "title": "List of minerals named after people", "text": "List of minerals named after people\n\nThis is a list of minerals named after famous or notable people. The chemical composition follows name when available.\n\nSorted by name:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12688244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12688244", "title": "List of political parties in Prince Edward Island", "text": "List of political parties in Prince Edward Island\n\nSince 1900, a total of eight registered provincial parties have existed in Prince Edward Island.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55257872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55257872", "title": "List of sugar mills in Mauritius", "text": "List of sugar mills in Mauritius\n\nA list of Mauritius sugar mills showing those that have disappeared and those still in existence in 1948 (in bold) and being updated for 2017 is detailed below. It is derived from ANNEXE IV of Pierre de Sornay's 1952 Book, \"Isle de France, Ile Maurice\" \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11485651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11485651", "title": "List of towns and cities with 100,000 or more inhabitants/country: X-Y-Z", "text": "List of towns and cities with 100,000 or more inhabitants/country: X-Y-Z\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58933608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58933608", "title": "North American Association for Environmental Education", "text": "North American Association for Environmental Education\n\nThe North American Association for Experiential Education (NAAEE) is a US-based nonprofit organization working to “bring the brightest minds together to accelerate environmental literacy and civic engagement through the power of education\".\n\nThe organization was founded in 1971 in the U.S. as the National Association for Environmental Education but now includes members from over 30 countries. \n\nNAAEE and its 56 affiliate organizations in the US, Canada, Mexico have over 16,000 members; additional affiliates exist outside North America in Asia and Oceania. These partners, many of whom operate at a state or provincial level, have their own conferences, publications, or other activities.\n\nNAAEE holds its own annual conference, supports teacher training in environmental education, supports research demonstrating the impact of environmental education, and produces a wide variety of publications, including \"Guidelines for Excellence\" in environmental education.\n\nThe Natural Start Alliance, a project of NAAEE, works to connect young children with nature.\n"}
{"id": "35649279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35649279", "title": "Olmsted Portland park plan", "text": "Olmsted Portland park plan\n\nThe plan for a park system in Portland, Oregon produced by the Olmsted Brothers landscape architecture firm in 1903 served as the model for much of the young U.S. city's development, including neighborhood and regional parks, scenic boulevards, and pedestrian pathways. The Olmsteds were retained by the city's new Park Board (an early predecessor of Portland Parks & Recreation), under the guidance of board member Thomas Lamb Eliot. The comprehensive plan was typical of the City Beautiful movement, and was brought to Portland during the run-up to the 1905 Lewis and Clark Centennial Exposition. The report was published as an appendix to the Park Board's annual report on December 31, 1903.\n\nEmanuel Tillman Mische, formerly an employee of the Olmsted Brothers, was hired to oversee the implementation of the plan in 1908, serving until 1914 as Parks Superintendent. The city, however, was slow to acquire the necessary lands to implement the plan, as prices rose quickly; in 1909 John Olmsted stated that \"Portland is not awake to her opportunities.\" In the decades since, however, the plan has served to guide most of the development of Portland's parks.\n\n"}
{"id": "4666012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4666012", "title": "Rural settlement", "text": "Rural settlement\n\nThe definition of a rural settlement depends on the country. In some countries, a rural settlement is any settlement in the areas defined as rural by a governmental office, e.g., by the national census bureau. This may include even rural towns. In some others, rural settlements traditionally do not include towns.\n\nCommon types of rural settlements are villages, hamlets and farms.\n\nTraditionally, rural settlements were associated with agriculture. In modern times other types of rural communities have been developed .\n\nThe settlement where the occupation of majority of people relate to the local natural resources are called rural settlement for example , (1) settlement of fisheries along a sea coast , (2) settlement of tribal people in the forest area and (3) settlement of farmers along the banks of rivers. \n\nStarted on 6 July 1956 in then Malaya, rural settlements in Malaysia is handled by the Federal Land Development Authority.\n\nA municipal rural settlement in Russia is a type of municipal formation.\n\nThe term \"rural settlement\" is also sometimes used either as a synonym for all rural localities, or for settlements of rural type in particular.\n\n"}
{"id": "19346578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19346578", "title": "Ruth DeFries", "text": "Ruth DeFries\n\nRuth DeFries (born 1957) is an environmental geographer who specializes in the use of remote sensing to study Earth's habitability under the influence of human activities, such as deforestation, that influence regulating biophysical and biogeochemical processes. She was one of 24 recipients of the 2007 MacArthur Fellowship, and was elected to the United States National Academy of Sciences in 2006.\n\nDeFries received her Ph.D. in 1980 from the Department of Geography and Environmental Engineering at Johns Hopkins University and her B.A. in Earth Science in 1976 from Washington University. In April 2016, Columbia University named her a University Professor, its highest academic rank. She had previously been the Denning Family Professor of Sustainable Development in Columbia's Department of Ecology, Evolution, and Environmental Biology. Before moving to Columbia in 2008, she was a professor at the University of Maryland, College Park with joint appointments in the Department of Geography and the Earth System Science Interdisciplinary Center.\n\nIn April 2015, DeFries joined with a group of scholars in issuing \"An Ecomodernist Manifesto\". The other authors were: John Asafu-Adjaye, Linus Blomqvist, Stewart Brand, Barry Brook, Erle Ellis, Christopher Foreman, David Keith, Martin Lewis, Mark Lynas, Ted Nordhaus, Roger A. Pielke, Jr., Rachel Pritzker, Joyashree Roy, Mark Sagoff, Michael Shellenberger, Robert Stone, and Peter Teague\n\nAlso see \n\n\nDeFries is the author or co-author of over 100 scientific papers on such topics as: Impacts of Tropical Fires on Air Quality and Greenhouse Gas Emissions; Land Use, Nutrition, and Food Security; Land Use and Conservation in the Tropics; Climate and Tropical Agriculture; Processes of Tropical Deforestation and Degradation; Methods for Remote Sensing of Land Cover; and Reviews and Conceptual Papers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23937771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23937771", "title": "Scarification (botany)", "text": "Scarification (botany)\n\nScarification in botany involves weakening, opening, or otherwise altering the coat of a seed to encourage germination. Scarification is often done mechanically, thermally, and chemically. The seeds of many plant species are often impervious to water and gases, thus preventing or delaying germination. Any process designed to make the testa (seed coat) more permeable to water and gases (and thus more likely to germinate) is known as scarification. \n\nScarification, regardless of type, works by speeding up the natural processes which normally make seed coats permeable to water and air. \n\nThe most common type of scarification is mechanical scarification.\n\nIn mechanical scarification, the testa is physically opened to allow moisture and air in. Seed coats may be filed with a metal file, rubbed with sandpaper, nicked with a knife, cracked gently with a hammer, or weakened or opened in any other way.\n\nAnother type of scarification is chemical scarification, which involves the use of one or more chemicals to promote germination. It can involve imbibing or soaking seeds in precisely concentrated acidic or basic solutions for varying amounts of time. Chemicals such as sulfuric acid or even household bleach can be used to affect this process. Chemical scarification can also be achieved through the use of nutrient salts such as potassium nitrate.\n\nThermal scarification can be achieved by briefly exposing seeds to hot water, which is also known as hot water treatment. In some chaparral plant communities, some species' seeds require fire and/or smoke to achieve germination. An exception to that phenomenon is Western poison oak, whose thick seed coatings provide a time delayed effect for germination, but do not require fire scarification.\n\nRegardless of the method, scarified seeds do not store well and need to be planted quickly, lest the seeds become unviable.\n\nBecause scarified seeds tend to germinate more often and in less time than unaltered seeds, scarification finds use not just in industry but on the small scale. In home gardens, for example, the seeds of plants which are otherwise difficult to grow from seed may be made viable through scarification. In horticulture, scarification is often used to facilitate the controlled and uniform germination of seed lots.\n\n"}
{"id": "7895944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7895944", "title": "Science, technology, society and environment education", "text": "Science, technology, society and environment education\n\nScience, technology, society and environment (STSE) education, originates from the science technology and society (STS) movement in science education. This is an outlook on science education that emphasizes the teaching of scientific and technological developments in their cultural, economic, social and political contexts. In this view of science education, students are encouraged to engage in issues pertaining to the impact of science on everyday life and make responsible decisions about how to address such issues (Solomon, 1993 and Aikenhead, 1994)\n\nThe STS movement has a long history in science education reform, and embraces a wide range of theories about the intersection between science, technology and society (Solomon and Aikenhead, 1994; Pedretti 1997). Over the last twenty years, the work of Peter Fensham, the noted Australian science educator, is considered to have heavily contributed to reforms in science education. Fensham's efforts included giving greater prominence to STS in the school science curriculum (Aikenhead, 2003). The key aim behind these efforts was to ensure the development of a broad-based science curriculum, embedded in the socio-political and cultural contexts in which it was formulated. From Fensham's point of view, this meant that students would engage with different viewpoints on issues concerning the impact of science and technology on everyday life. They would also understand the relevance of scientific discoveries, rather than just concentrate on learning scientific facts and theories that seemed distant from their realities (Fensham, 1985 & 1988).\n\nHowever, although the wheels of change in science education had been set in motion during the late 1970s, it was not until the 1980s that STS perspectives began to gain a serious footing in science curricula, in largely Western contexts (Gaskell, 1982). This occurred at a time when issues such as, animal testing, environmental pollution and the growing impact of technological innovation on social infrastructure, were beginning to raise ethical, moral, economic and political dilemmas (Fensham, 1988 and Osborne, 2000). There were also concerns among communities of researchers, educators and governments pertaining to the general public's lack of understanding about the interface between science and society (Bodmer, 1985; Durant \"et al.\" 1989 and Millar 1996). In addition, alarmed by the poor state of scientific literacy among school students, science educators began to grapple with the quandary of how to prepare students to be informed and active citizens, as well as the scientists, medics and engineers of the future (e.g. Osborne, 2000 and Aikenhead, 2003). Hence, STS advocates called for reforms in science education that would equip students to understand scientific developments in their cultural, economic, political and social contexts. This was considered important in making science accessible and meaningful to all students—and, most significantly, engaging them in real world issues (Fensham, 1985; Solomon, 1993; Aikenhead, 1994 and Hodson 1998).\n\nThe key goals of STS are:\n\n\nThere is no uniform definition for STSE education. As mentioned before, STSE is a form of STS education, but places greater emphasis on the environmental consequences of scientific and technological developments. In STSE curricula, scientific developments are explored from a variety of economic, environmental, ethical, moral, social and political (Kumar and Chubin, 2000 & Pedretti, 2005) perspectives.\n\nAt best, STSE education can be loosely defined as a movement that attempts to bring about an understanding of the interface between science, society, technology and the environment. A key goal of STSE is to help students realize the significance of scientific developments in their daily lives and foster a voice of active citizenship (Pedretti & Forbes, 2000).\n\nOver the last two decades, STSE education has taken a prominent position in the science curricula of different parts of the world, such as Australia, Europe, the UK and USA (Kumar & Chubin, 2000). In Canada, the inclusion of STSE perspectives in science education has largely come about as a consequence of the \"Common Framework of science learning outcomes, Pan Canadian Protocol for collaboration on School Curriculum (1997)\". This document highlights a need to develop scientific literacy in conjunction with understanding the interrelationships between science, technology, and environment. According to Osborne (2000) & Hodson (2003), scientific literacy can be perceived in four different ways:\n\n\nHowever, many science teachers find it difficult and even damaging to their professional identities to teach STSE as part of science education due to the fact that traditional science focuses on established scientific facts rather than philosophical, political, and social issues, the extent of which many educators find to be devaluing to the scientific curriculum.\n\nIn the context of STSE education, the goals of teaching and learning are largely directed towards engendering cultural and democratic notions of scientific literacy. Here, advocates of STSE education argue that in order to broaden students' understanding of science, and better prepare them for active and responsible citizenship in the future, the scope of science education needs to go beyond learning about scientific theories, facts and technical skills. Therefore, the fundamental aim of STSE education is to equip students to understand and situate scientific and technological developments in their cultural, environmental, economic, political and social contexts (Solomon & Aikenhead, 1994; Bingle & Gaskell, 1994; Pedretti 1997 & 2005). For example, rather than learning about the facts and theories of weather patterns, students can explore them in the context of issues such as global warming. They can also debate the environmental, social, enconomic and political consequences of relevant legislation, such as the Kyoto Protocol. This is thought to provide a richer, more meaningful and relevant canvas against which scientific theories and phenomena relating to weather patterns can be explored (Pedretti \"et al.\" 2005).\n\nIn essence, STSE education aims to develop the following skills and perspectives (Aikenhead, 1994; Pedretti, 1996; Alsop & Hicks, 2001):\n\n\nSince STSE education has multiple facets, there are a variety of ways in which it can be approached in the classroom. This offers teachers a degree of flexibility, not only in the incorporation of STSE perspectives into their science teaching, but in integrating other curricular areas such as history, geography, social studies and language arts (Richardson & Blades, 2001). The table below summarizes the different approaches to STSE education described in the literature (Ziman, 1994 & Pedretti, 2005):\n\nAlthough advocates of STSE education keenly emphasize its merits in science education, they also recognize inherent difficulties in its implementation. The opportunities and challenges of STSE education have been articulated by Hughes (2000) and Pedretti & Forbes, (2000), at five different levels, as described below:\n\nValues & beliefs: The goals of STSE education may challenge the values and beliefs of students and teachers—as well as conventional, culturally entrenched views on scientific and technological developments. Students gain opportunities to engage with, and deeply examine the impact of scientific development on their lives from a critical and informed perspective. This helps to develop students' analytical and problem solving capacities, as well as their ability to make informed choices in their everyday lives.\n\nAs they plan and implement STSE education lessons, teachers need to provide a balanced view of the issues being explored. This enables students to formulate their own thoughts, independently explore other opinions and have the confidence to voice their personal viewpoints. Teachers also need to cultivate safe, non-judgmental classroom environments, and must also be careful not to impose their own values and beliefs on students.\n\nKnowledge & understanding: The interdisciplinary nature of STSE education requires teachers to research and gather information from a variety of sources. At the same time, teachers need to develop a sound understanding of issues from various disciplines—philosophy, history, geography, social studies, politics, economics, environment and science. This is so that students’ knowledge base can be appropriately scaffolded to enable them to effectively engage in discussions, debates and decision-making processes.\n\nThis ideal raises difficulties. Most science teachers are specialized in a particular field of science. Lack of time and resources may affect how deeply teachers and students can examine issues from multiple perspectives. Nevertheless, a multi-disciplinary approach to science education enables students to gain a more rounded perspective on the dilemmas, as well as the opportunities, that science presents in our daily lives.\n\nPedagogic approach: Depending on teacher experience and comfort levels, a variety of pedagogic approaches based on constructivism can be used to stimulate STSE education in the classroom. As illustrated in the table below, the pedagogies used in STSE classrooms need to take students through different levels of understanding to develop their abilities and confidence to critically examine issues and take responsible action.\n\nTeachers are often faced with the challenge of transforming classroom practices from task-oriented approaches to those which focus on developing students' understanding and transferring agency for learning to students (Hughes, 2000). The table below is a compilation of pedagogic approaches for STSE education described in the literature (e.g. Hodson, 1998; Pedretti & Forbes 2000; Richardson & Blades, 2001):\n\nSTSE education draws on holistic ways of knowing, learning, and interacting with science. A recent movement in science education has bridged science and technology education with society and environment awareness through critical explorations of place. The project Science and the City, for example, took place during the school years 2006-2007 and 2007-2008 involving an intergenerational group of researchers: 36 elementary students (grades 6, 7 & 8) working with their teachers, 6 university-based researchers, parents and community members. The goal was to come together, learn science and technology together, and use this knowledge to provide meaningful experiences that make a difference to the lives of friends, families, communities and environments that surround the school. The collective experience allowed students, teachers and learners to foster imagination, responsibility, collaboration, learning and action. The project has led to a series of publications:\n\nScience and the City: A Field Zine\n\nOne collective publication, authored by the students, teachers and researchers together is that of a community zine that offered a format to share possibilities afforded by participatory practices that connect schools with local-knowledges, people and places.\n\n'STEPWISE' is the acronym for 'Science and Technology Education Promoting Wellbeing for Individuals, Societies and Environments.' It is a research and development project based on the STEPWISE framework, which integrates major categories of learning outcomes - including STSE - and relates all of them to 'WISE Activism.' In WISE Activism, students use their literacy in science and technology to try to bring about improvements to the 'wellbeing of individuals, societies and environments' (WISE). Students might, for example, use their knowledge about nutrition and issues relating to for-profit food manufacturing, along with data from their own inquiries into eating habits of students in a school cafeteria, to lobby the school administration to improve the nutritional value of foods on offer in the school.\n\nThe STEPWISE framework implements some important educational principles, including:\n\nAn important research goal/finding is that:\n\nYou can learn more about STEPWISE, including how to get involved in it, at: .\n\nA forum for discussing STSE (socioscientific) issues and actions is at: . This forum contains a 'community-reviewed' journal; that is, the Journal for Activist Science & Technology Education.\n\nTokyo Global Engineering Corporation is an education-services organization that provides capstone STSE education programs free of charge to engineering students and other stakeholders. These programs are intended to complement—but not to replace—STSE coursework required by academic degree programs of study. The programs are educational opportunities, so students are not paid for their participation. All correspondence among members is completed via e-mail, and all meetings are held via Skype, with English as the language of instruction and publication. Students and other stakeholders are never asked to travel or leave their geographic locations, and are encouraged to publish organizational documents in their personal, primary languages, when English is a secondary language.\n\n\n\n\nThe Councils of Ministers of Education, Canada, website is a useful resource for understanding the goals and position of STSE education in Canadian Curricula.\n\nThese are examples of books available for information on STS/STSE education, teaching practices in science and issues that may be explored in STS/STSE lessons.\n\n"}
{"id": "31320745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31320745", "title": "Sea Ice Physics and Ecosystem eXperiment", "text": "Sea Ice Physics and Ecosystem eXperiment\n\nThe Sea Ice Physics and Ecosystem eXperiment (SIPEX) was an Australian contribution to the International Polar Year (IPY). The expedition studied the sea ice in the Antarctica zone in September and October 2007, investigating links between the sea ice and the Southern Ocean ecosystems.\n\nTaking part were 45 scientists from 8 different countries, each a specialist on some aspect of the Antarctic sea ice zone. Travelling aboard the research vessel \"Aurora Australis\", the researchers covered East Antarctica between 110°E and 130°E. Experiments dealt with ice thickness and snow cover, the sympagic fauna and flora and examined the effects of ocean currents and wind.\n\nThe extent and distribution of sea ice in the polar regions is a sensitive indicator of global climate change. Global warming has been implicated in significant reductions in the extent of sea ice and this trend is set to continue. An improved understanding of sea ice may lead to improved conservation policies in Antarctica.\n\n"}
{"id": "11665110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11665110", "title": "Skylark launch tower", "text": "Skylark launch tower\n\nA Skylark tower is a tower used for the launch of earlier versions of Skylark rockets. As Skylark rockets have no guidance system and accelerate slowly, they require a safe launch tower with a height of at least 24 metres with a guidance system.\n\nLater versions of the Skylark rocket were equipped with a more powerful engine and therefore did not need such a large guidance tower for launch.\n\nIn 1956, a 30 metre tall swivelling launch tower was set up on launch site 2, at Woomera, South Australia. The tower was built of old Bailey bridge segments, each weighing 35 tons.\n\nAt Salto di Quirra, Sardinia in 1965, a 30 metre tall Skylark tower was erected. The tower ceased to be in use from 1972, at which point launches moved to Esrange. The tower remains today.\n\nAt Esrange, Sweden in 1972, a 30 metre high Skylark tower was built. The tower consists of a pyramid-like building with a launch tower on its top, in order to protect the rocket from cold before launch, necessary as Esrange is within the Arctic Circle. At launch, exhaust doors were opened to enable the smoke to leave the construct.\n\nAs Skylark rockets are no longer available, Esrange Skylark launch tower was modified in 2005 for launching Brazilian VSB-30 rockets. The tower is now used for launches of rockets manufactured in Brazil.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1675871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1675871", "title": "Sopot, Zagreb", "text": "Sopot, Zagreb\n\nSopot is a residential neighbourhood of Zagreb, Croatia. It is part of the Novi Zagreb - istok district and it has a population of 7,428 (2011).\n\nSopot was one of the earliest parts of Novi Zagreb to be built. It consists almost entirely of tower blocks and blocks of flats, surrounded by birch trees and poplars.\n\nThe Zagreb tram route for Lines 7 and 14 runs along its northern edge, on Avenue Dubrovnik, and Line 6 has its turning point there.\n"}
{"id": "33115358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33115358", "title": "Subsea Valley", "text": "Subsea Valley\n\nThe Subsea Valley(SSV) geographically consists of Fornebu, Sandvika, Asker, Tranby, Drammen, Hokksund and Kongsberg, totaling approximately 75 km in length. The SSV consists of 184 firms and currently incorporates three of the five major subsea engineering companies that compete in the industry. The major engineering companies within the SV are FMC Technologies, Aker Solutions and GE Vetco. With regard to subsea production systems, Norwegian suppliers have gained global market shares in the range of 60-70%, and companies such as FMC Technologies, Aker Solutions and GE are truly global payers within this segment. The competitors located outside the cluster are Cameron and DrillQuip. In a recent report by TESS it is stated that in addition to the companies, which are present in the SSV area, as many as 600 companies are in one or another way connected to the valley. The three central companies in Subsea Valley – FMC Technologies, Aker Solutions and GE Vetco – are supplying oil & gas extraction equipment to such hydrocarbon operators as Statoil, Exxon and Petrobras.\n\nThe Subsea Valley cluster organization was formally established on June 8, 2010. Some early members were FMC Technologies, Aker Solutions, BI Drammen and TESS as. The initiative was largely taken by TESS as with help from BI Drammen. In its early phase a vision of developing into a “global knowledge hub”, thus keeping the world leading competence simultaneously with further developments in the industry, was declared by the SSV. Erik Jølberg adds further that some cluster specific initiatives have been recorded. The establishment of a subsea program at the Buskerud College with FMC employees as teachers began in January 2011. An internet page has been set up. To facilitate inter-firms communication the “Speed Match meeting” has been established, allowing suppliers and producers to meet for 15 minutes and discuss their products and needs. Also, attempts to secure founding from governmental institutions (e.g. Innovasjon Norge) have been undertaken.\n"}
{"id": "4767860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4767860", "title": "Tatamailau", "text": "Tatamailau\n\nTatamailau (Tetum: Foho Tatamailau), or Tata Mailau, sometimes referred as Mount Ramelau, is the highest mountain in East Timor and also of Timor island at . The mountain is located approximately south of the capital Dili in the district of Ainaro. While East Timor was a Portuguese colony it was called the highest mountain of Portugal in the twentieth century, since the highest mountain of Portugal proper is of a more modest height. The name \"Tatamailau\" is Mambai-origin, the local language and means \"Grandfather of all\". \"Ramelau\" is the name of the massif of the mountain. The Tatamailau is dedicated to the Virgin Mary and the subject of an annual pilgrimage commemorating the \"Annunciation of the Blessed Virgin Mary\", on or around 25 March. There is a three metre high statue of the Virgin Mary on the peak, which came from Italy and was erected during Indonesian occupation in 1997.\n\nIn the early 1980s the mountain was extensively covered with old growth montane forest and was identified by BirdLife International as an Important Bird Area as it supported several endemic and restricted-range bird species. Since then there has been considerable environmental modification with very little natural tree cover remaining. Deforestation for grazing has left only a few patches of original forest, mainly near mountain crests. The lower slopes are mainly grass covered, with the upper slopes characterised by eucalypt regrowth.\n\nTatamailau can be climbed from the town of Hato Bulico to the northeast or from the village of Aimeta to the north; there is about of climbing from either. The track from Hato Bulico to the summit is very well formed having originally been cut to create a pilgrimage trail to the Virgin Mary figure on the summit and was once negotiable by four wheel drive vehicle. A map is not required once on the track. The track is now very severely degraded with massive washouts requiring major detours to negotiate. Because the track was cut for vehicular access the constant gradient is monotonous, the poor engineering has caused major environmental damage and the route affords few views of note. The route from Aimeta is via a network of goat herders' tracks, it does not appear on current maps and a local guide is needed. However, the Aimeta track is varied, traverses unspoilt country, is extremely interesting with many unfolding mountain views and consequently presents by far the most enjoyable climb. A fit person should allow four hours from Hato Bulico to the summit, six hours from Aimeta, nine hours from Aimeta to Hato Bulico. Assume no water is available en route. There is no human habitation above Hato Bulico or Aimeta. It is possible to camp on the saddle below the summit in the dry season and experience the sunset and sunrise from the same location. The summit can freeze in the dry season; in the wet season the summit can be sufficiently cold, wet and windy to pose a risk of hypothermia.\n\nHato Bulico is a 1½ - 2 hour drive from Maubisse on a sealed road but requires a four-wheel drive. In the wet season it can be dangerous and periodically impassable but never for long. There is an excellent resting place at Hato Bulico close to the start of the track.\n\nAimeta can be reached from Letefoho in about 1½ hours. Shelter, but not food, may be negotiated at Aimeta with local assistance but it is advisable to arrive entirely self-sufficient. The nearest accommodation is at the Saint Bakhita, Eraulo, via Vila Ermera and an excellent, easy walk is to be had from there to Aimeta in about four hours. Horses for baggage can be hired at Aimeta and this is useful if camping on the summit or to assist stragglers. Aimeta can be a logistical challenge, which is why almost all summit bids are launched from Hato Bulico but it is possible, with care, for supporting transport to drive from Aimeta directly to Hato Bulico if the road is navigable otherwise, in the Wet season, via Gleno and Aileu in about five hours. An ideal route is to do the summit from Aimeta to Hato Bulico taking in both sides of the mountain; local assistance is essential for those without fluent Tetum and local knowledge.\n\n"}
{"id": "30305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30305", "title": "Third World", "text": "Third World\n\nDuring the Cold War, the Third World referred to the developing countries of Asia, Africa, and Latin America, the nations not aligned with either the First World or the Second World. This usage has become relatively rare due to the ending of the Cold War.\n\nIn the decade following the fall of the Soviet Union and the end of the Cold War in 1991, the term \"Third World\" was used interchangeably with \"developing countries\", but the concept has become outdated as it no longer represents the current political or economic state of the world. The three-world model arose during the Cold War to define countries aligned with NATO (the First World), the Communist Bloc (the Second World, although this term was less used), or neither (the Third World). Strictly speaking, \"Third World\" was a political, rather than an economic, grouping.\n\nSince about the 2000s the term \"Third World\" has been used less and less. It is being replaced with terms such as developing countries, least developed countries or the Global South.\n\nFrench demographer, anthropologist and historian Alfred Sauvy, in an article published in the French magazine \"L'Observateur\", August 14, 1952, coined the term \"Third World\" (French: \"Tiers Monde\"), referring to countries that were unaligned with either the Communist Soviet bloc or the Capitalist NATO bloc during the Cold War. His usage was a reference to the Third Estate, the commoners of France who, before and during the French Revolution, opposed the clergy and nobles, who composed the First Estate and Second Estate, respectively. Sauvy wrote, \"This third world ignored, exploited, despised like the third estate also wants to be something.\" He conveyed the concept of political non-alignment with either the capitalist or communist bloc.\n\nThe term \"Third World\" arose during the Cold War to define countries that remained non-aligned with either NATO or the Communist Bloc. The United States, Canada, Japan, South Korea, Western European nations and their allies represented the First World, while the Soviet Union, China, Cuba, and their allies represented the Second World. This terminology provided a way of broadly categorizing the nations of the Earth into three groups based on political and economic divisions. Since the fall of the Soviet Union and the end of the Cold War, the term \"Third World\" has been used less and less. It is being replaced with terms such as developing countries, least developed countries or the Global South. The concept itself has become outdated as it no longer represents the current political or economic state of the world.\n\nThe Third World was normally seen to include many countries with colonial pasts in Africa, Latin America, Oceania and Asia. It was also sometimes taken as synonymous with countries in the Non-Aligned Movement. In the dependency theory of thinkers like Raúl Prebisch, Walter Rodney, Theotonio dos Santos, and Andre Gunder Frank, the Third World has also been connected to the world-systemic economic division as \"periphery\" countries dominated by the countries comprising the economic \"core\".\n\nDue to the complex history of evolving meanings and contexts, there is no clear or agreed-upon definition of the Third World. Some countries in the Communist Bloc, such as Cuba, were often regarded as \"third world\". Because many Third World countries were economically poor and non-industrialized, it became a stereotype to refer to poor countries as \"third world countries\", yet the \"Third World\" term is also often taken to include newly industrialized countries like Brazil, India, and China; they are now more commonly referred to as part of BRIC. Historically, some European countries were non-aligned and a few of these were and are very prosperous, including Ireland, Austria, Sweden, Finland, Switzerland and Yugoslavia.\n\nThe \"Three Worlds Theory\" developed by Mao Zedong is different from the Western theory of the Three Worlds or Third World. For example, in the Western theory, India and China belong respectively to the Second and Third Worlds, but in Mao's theory both China and India are part of the Third World which he defined as consisting of exploited nations.\n\nThird Worldism is a political movement that argues for the unity of third-world nations against first-world and probably second-world influence and the principle of non-interference in other countries' domestic affairs. Groups most notable for expressing and exercising this idea are the Non-Aligned Movement (NAM) and the Group of 77 which provide a base for relations and diplomacy between not just the third-world countries, but between the third-world and the first and second worlds. The notion has been criticized as providing a fig leaf for human-rights violations and political repression by dictatorships.\n\nMost Third World countries are former colonies. Having gained independence, many of these countries, especially smaller ones, were faced with the challenges of nation- and institution-building on their own for the first time. Due to this common background, many of these nations were \"developing\" in economic terms for most of the 20th century, and many still are. This term, used today, generally denotes countries that have not developed to the same levels as OECD countries, and are thus in the process of \"developing\".\n\nIn the 1980s, economist Peter Bauer offered a competing definition for the term \"Third World\". He claimed that the attachment of Third World status to a particular country was not based on any stable economic or political criteria, and was a mostly arbitrary process. The large diversity of countries considered part of the Third World — from Indonesia to Afghanistan — ranged widely from economically primitive to economically advanced and from politically non-aligned to Soviet- or Western-leaning. An argument could also be made for how parts of the U.S. are more like the Third World.\n\nThe only characteristic that Bauer found common in all Third World countries was that their governments \"demand and receive Western aid,\" the giving of which he strongly opposed. Thus, the aggregate term \"Third World\" was challenged as misleading even during the Cold War period, because it had no consistent or collective identity among the countries it supposedly encompassed.\n\nDuring the Cold War, unaligned countries of the Third World were seen as potential allies by both the First and Second World. Therefore, the United States and the Soviet Union went to great lengths to establish connections in these countries by offering economic and military support to gain strategically located alliances (e.g. the United States in Vietnam or the Soviet Union in Cuba). By the end of the Cold War, many Third World countries had adopted capitalist or communist economic models and continued to receive support from the side they had chosen. Throughout the Cold War and beyond, the countries of the Third World have been the priority recipients of Western foreign aid and the focus of economic development through mainstream theories such as modernization theory and dependency theory.\n\nBy the end of the 1960s, the idea of the Third World came to represent countries in Africa, Asia and Latin America that were considered underdeveloped by the West based on a variety of characteristics (low economic development, low life expectancy, high rates of poverty and disease, etc.). These countries became the targets for aid and support from governments, NGOs and individuals from wealthier nations. One popular model, known as Rostow's stages of growth, argued that development took place in 5 stages (Traditional Society; Pre-conditions for Take-off; Take-off; Drive to Maturity; Age of High Mass Consumption). W. W. Rostow argued that \"Take-off\" was the critical stage that the Third World was missing or struggling with. Thus, foreign aid was needed to help kick-start industrialization and economic growth in these countries.\n\nMany times there is a clear distinction between First and Third Worlds. When talking about the Global North and the Global South, the majority of the time the two go hand in hand. People refer to the two as \"Third World/South\" and \"First World/North\" because the Global North is more affluent and developed, whereas the Global South is less developed and often poorer. \n\nTo counter this mode of thought, some scholars began proposing the idea of a change in world dynamics that began in the late 1980s, and termed it the Great Convergence. As Jack A. Goldstone and his colleagues put it, \"in the twentieth century, the Great Divergence peaked before the First World War and continued until the early 1970s, then, after two decades of indeterminate fluctuations, in the late 1980s it was replaced by the Great Convergence as the majority of Third World countries reached economic growth rates significantly higher than those in most First World countries\".\n\nOthers have observed a return to Cold War-era alignments (MacKinnon, 2007; Lucas, 2008), this time with substantial changes between 1990–2015 in geography, the world economy and relationship dynamics between current and emerging world powers; not necessarily redefining the classic meaning of \"First\", \"Second\", and \"Third World\" terms, but rather which countries belong to them by way of association to which world power or coalition of countries — such as the G7, the European Union, OECD; G20, OPEC, BRICS, ASEAN, the African Union, and the Eurasian Union.\n\n"}
{"id": "38498690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38498690", "title": "Timeline of Seoul", "text": "Timeline of Seoul\n\nThe following is a of the history of the city of Seoul, South Korea.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7561522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7561522", "title": "Vrbani, Zagreb", "text": "Vrbani, Zagreb\n\nVrbani is a neighborhood in Trešnjevka - jug city district in the southwestern part of Zagreb, Croatia. The area covered by the local city council Vrbani has around 10,093 inhabitants.\n\nThe borders of Vrbani are Horvaćanska Street on the south with Jarun, Hrvatski Sokol Street with Staglišće on the east, Zagrebačka Avenue with Rudeš on the north and Petrovaradinska Street on the west with Prečko. Vrbani, in the wider sense, also includes the newly built buildings between lake Jarun and Horvaćanska Street.\n"}
