{"id": "10318924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10318924", "title": "Albert (Belize House constituency)", "text": "Albert (Belize House constituency)\n\nAlbert is an electoral constituency in the Belize District of Belize. \n\nThe Albert constituency was created for the 1961 general election as part of a major nationwide redistricting. Albert is named after the principal street (Albert Street) within its jurisdiction.\n\nAlbert Constituency is home to the headquarters of most of Belize's banks, Belize City's major stores, The Supreme Court of Belize City, The Bliss Center for the Performing Arts, The Belize City House of Culture, Battlefield Park, the Belize City Commercial Center, and several government offices.\n\nAlbert, often referred to locally as Albert Division, is located entirely within the boundaries of Belize City, and is one of 10 constituencies in the Belize District that fall within its city limits. Albert is considered the downtown area of Belize City and is located on the eastern part of the city's southside.\n\nAlbert is bounded by the Caribbean Sea to the east and south, Haulover Creek to the north, and the constituencies of Mesopotamia and Queen's Square to the west. The historic Belize City Swing Bridge, which crosses Haulover Creek, connects Albert with the Fort George constituency. Albert is Belize's smallest constituency in terms of area.\n\nIn an era in which the People's United Party overwhelmingly dominated Belizean national politics, Philip Goldson of the National Independence Party first won Albert in 1965. He held the seat as a member of the NIP, then the UDP and finally the NABR until his retirement in 1998. Goldson was the sole opposition member in the Belize House during much of the 1960s and early 1970s. \n\nIn 1998 Mark Espat won the constituency for the PUP for the first time in 37 years, defeating the UDP's Tom Morrison. Espat was re-elected by comfortable margins until his retirement in 2012.\n\nAlbert is currently represented in the House of Representatives of Belize by the UDP's Tracy Taegar- Panton, who is Minister of State with responsibility for Investment,Trade and Commerce.\n\n \n\n\n"}
{"id": "35456676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35456676", "title": "Andrey Filatov", "text": "Andrey Filatov\n\nAndrey Vasilievich Filatov (; born 18 December 1971) is a Russian entrepreneur. Filatov is Chairman of the Board of Directors of Tuloma investment company, and a co-owner of the Globaltrans company. Andrey Filatov is also President of the Russian Chess Federation. He is Honorary Academician of the Russian Academy of Arts.\n\nCompleted secondary education at Junior Sporting School 9 in the city of Dnepropetrovsk, Ukraine, USSR. Got ranked Candidate for Master of Sport of the USSR (chess). In 1993, graduated from the Academy of Physical Education and Sports of the Republic of Belarus (the Belorussian State University of Physical Culture) with the diploma of Sport Instructor and Chess Coach. At the Academy met and made friends with such chess players as Ilya Smirin and Boris Gelfand.\n\nIn 1996, together with his partners Konstantin Nikolaev and Nikita Mishin founded Severstaltrans, of which was Member of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer since foundation.\n\nAndrey Filatov is a member of the Economic Council of the French-Russian Chamber of Commerce and Industry (CCIFR).\n\nIn 2015 was awarded the title of Honorary Academician of the Russian Academy of Arts for his contribution to the development and popularization of Russian and Soviet art.\n\nAndrey Filatov is Chevalier of the French Legion of Honor Medal. Led by His Excellency the Ambassador of France to Russia Mr. Jean-Maurice Ripert, the official award ceremony took place on March 2, 2016, in the Chess Museum of Moscow.\n\nIn 2016, for merits in development of physical culture and sports, Andrey Filatov was honored with the Russian Medal of the Order \"For Merit to the Fatherland\" (2nd class). The award was given to Andrey Filatov by Russian Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev on June 10, 2016.\nAndrey Filatov was awarded with a bronze medal as senior trainer of the Russian men's team at the 42nd Chess Olympiad in Baku (2016), a bronze medal at the 43nd Chess Olympiad in Batumi (2018) and a silver medal at FIDE World Team Championships in Khanty-Mansiysk (2017).\n\nMarried with five children.\n\nAndrey Filatov’s main asset is Tuloma investment company. Не is also a co-owner of the Global Ports company listed at the London Stock Exchange, the railway companies Globaltrans and Transoil Ltd (7%).\n\nIn October 2015, Filatov announced consolidation into Tuloma Investment Company, which specializes in investing in Russian companies and shares, of his personal assets (other than Global Ports, Transoil and Globaltrans). Tuloma’s investment portfolio includes stakes in Coal Mining Investments Ltd., Fabrikant, Pskovneft-Terminal, real estate development projects of Volgo-Okskaya Investment Company (VOIC), Pushkin, StroyEngineering Development, as well as shares in FosAgro, Novatek, MegaFon, LukOil, Surgutneftegas and Norilsk Nickel.\n\nIn 2010, \"Finance\" magazine estimated Andrey Filatov’s wealth at $0.92 billion.\n\nIn 2011, the Russian version of \"Forbes\" magazine ranked Filatov 93rd among Russia’s wealthiest businesspersons, with an estimated wealth of $1.1 billion.\n\nIn 2012, Forbes World Listing estimated Filatov’s wealth at $1.3 billion (ranked 960th globally).\n\nIn November 2017, Andrey Filatov embarked on a PSA project to develop «25 Years of Independence», one of the largest gas deposits in Uzbekistan, with estimated reserves of 100 bcm. Filatov's stake in the project is 37.5 %.\n\nOn 19 October 2018, Andrey Filatov and the Chairman of the Board of Directors of Uzbekneftegaz JSC Bahrom Ashrafkhanov signed a supplemental agreement for the project to create a single investor and set the commercial conditions for the development of the field.\n\n\nAndrey Filatov is a member of the Economic Council of French and Russian Businesses of the Franco-Russian Chamber of Commerce and Industry (CCIFR).\n\nFilatov is a member of the Valaam Monastery Board of Guardians.\n\nHe has been keen on chess since childhood.\n\nFilatov was the initiator and sponsor of the World Chess Championship 2012 held in Moscow in 2012, in the State Tretyakov Gallery. According to Filatov, \"“By holding the match in a museum we are attempting to emphasize the link between our favorite game and the arts, as well as pay tribute to the memory of great Russian artists in the broadest sense, including painters, writers, composers and musicians.”\". The game was played between Boris Gelfand and Viswanathan Anand.\n\nFilatov funded the restoration of the tombstone monument to one of the greatest chess players, Alexander Alekhine, the first world champion who was Russian by birth, in Paris.\n\nIn memory of his first chess coach, Alexander Valerianovich Sinitsyn, Filatov set up the Sinitsyn Memorial international children chess festival, which has been held in Dnepropetrovsk since 2001.\n\nOn 1 February 2014 at the 22nd congress of the Russian Chess Federation, Andrey Filatov was elected President of the Russian Chess Federation.\n\nOn 13 August 2014, Andrey Filatov, the President of the Russian Chess Federation, was elected to the post of the vice president of the International Chess Federation (FIDE) at the world federation’s congress in Norway’s Tromsø.. He hold office as vice president of FIDE from 2014 to 2018.\n\nIn January 2016, Filatov became senior trainer and captain of the Russian men's chess team. The Russian team won bronze medals at the 42nd Chess Olympiad in Baku in 2016 and at the 43nd Chess Olympiad in Batumi in 2018. In 2016 Filatov was awarded a title of FIDE Senior trainer.\n\nOn July 20, 2018, Andrey Filatov announced the national team roster for the upcoming World Chess Olympiad in Batumi. The Olympiad became historically unprecedented by gathering the world's strongest chess teams. The Russian men's national team won bronze in the competition.\n\nFilatov is collecting pieces of art – painting, graphic works, and sculpture as well. In his collection are works of such painters as Igor Grabar, Pyotr Konchalovsky, Konstantin Korovin, Gely Korzhev, Viktor Popkov, Arkady Plastov, Nicolai Fechin, and Aleksandr Laktionov. The collection started with \"Portrait of the engraver J.Watts\" by Nikolai Fechin. This portrait in 1924 won the Thomas R. Procter prize of the National Academy of Design in the USA. Andrey Filatov’s favorite painter is Viktor Popkov.\n\nIn 2014, Filatov became the owner of Château La Grace Dieu Des Prieurs, a French winemaker situated in Saint-Emilion, part of the Bordeaux winemaking region. The renowned oenological consultant Louis Mitjavile was invited to improve the winemaking process, while Jean Nouvel, one of the best-known French architects, created a unique design for the renovated château. Since 2017 the wine is branded as Art Russe Grand Cru and the wine label design includes reproductions of works from the Art Russe fund collection. \n\nOn February 3, 2018, Andrey Filatov was re-elected RCF President by the XIII Congress of the Russian Chess Federation. \n\nIn 2012, Andrey Filatov established the Filatov Family Art Fund, to collect Russian and Soviet paintings and sculptures found abroad.\n\nIn June 2014, the Filatov Family Art Fund announced that it was rebranding to Art Russe as it prepared to open a new museum in London. Art Russe will continue the work of the Filatov Family Art Fund, but will take on a broader role, with the focus shifting from collecting art to showing the world the breadth and depth of the talent that thrived in Russia.\n\nOn 29 July 2014, Art Russe became a Patron of the Serpentine Galleries, one of London’s leading art galleries. The agreement demonstrates Art Russe’s commitment to supporting international galleries, museums and exhibitions, as it plans to launch its own museum in London.\n\nMarking the 70th anniversary of Victory in Europe, in spring 2015 Art Russe arranged the art exhibition The Legacy of World War II in Russian Art in Saatchi Gallery, London. The exhibition featured paintings and sculptures, most of which had never before been on public display in the UK, including Alexander Laktionov's \"Letter from the Front\"; the Tkachev brothers' \"By the Well\"; Igor Obrosov’s \"Wartime Moscow 1941\"; Ivan Penteshin’s \"The Defence of Leningrad\"; Evsey Moiseenko’s \"Freedom\"; Gely Korzhev’s \"The Reunion\" and Mai Danzig's monumental canvas \"And the World Remembers the Saviours\".\n\nFoundation Art Russe participated in the preparation of the exhibition \"Astronauts: The Birth of the Space Age\", which opened on 17 September 2015 and began its work in London's Science Museum (Science Museum). Some exceptionally rare exhibits related to the Soviet space program, which had never travelled outside of Russia before. were brought to London for the exhibition in Moscow. Among them: R-7 ballistic missile engines, R-7 spacecraft \"Vostok-6 spacecraft\", which carried the world's first woman astronaut/cosmonaut Valentina Tereshkova to space, personal belongings of astronauts, the objects of their everyday life on board, and even a space cosmic souls shower.\n\nArt Russe has organized the first major exhibition of Russian and Soviet art of the twentieth century in the Middle East, which opened on 6 October 2015 in the capital of the United Arab Emirates, Abu Dhabi. The exhibition, entitled \"Art Russe Collection of 20th Century Russian and Soviet art Art of the XX century Art Russe: War and Peace\" and including more than 120 works, takes place under the patronage of the Minister of Culture, Youth and Social Development of the United Arab Emirates Sheikh Nahyan bin Mubarak Al Nahyan. The exhibition ran until February 2016.\n\nIn February 2016, the painting \"Freedom!\" by Evsey Moiseenko was transferred to the exhibition at Yad Vashem, Israel’s national memorial to the victims and heroes of the Holocaust, for a period of 15 years.\n\nIn June 2016, the fund signed an agreement with the Montagu family about establishment of a new permanent gallery of Russian art at Beaulieu, in Hampshire. The exhibition is expected to open in July 2016.\n\nIn August 2016, Art Russe funded the creation of a tapestry to be woven from a watercolour painting by Prince Charles, Duke of Rothesay at Dovecot Studios in Edinburgh.\n\nIn November 2016, Art Russe expanded its collection through the acquisition of seven paintings by some of the most iconic Russian artists. These seven paintings previously belonged to a European noble family. This followed last year's acquisition of eleven canvases from a European royal family. In December 2015 Art Russe signed the agreement to acquire paintings representing several influential movements in Russian art, such as Peredvizhniki. These works included \"The Religious Procession in Kursk Province\", and \"Sadko in the Underwater Kingdom\" by Ilya Repin, \"The Mother of God\" by Kuzma Petrov-Vodkin, \"Whirlwind\" by Filipp Malyavin, \"Alionushka\" by Viktor Vasnetsov, \"The Swan Princess\" by Mikhail Vrubel, watercolour study \"The Rape of Europa\" by Valentin Serov, and \"Ballet Dressing-room Snowflakes\" by Zinaida Serebriakova.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13064787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13064787", "title": "BNI (organization)", "text": "BNI (organization)\n\nBusiness Network International (BNI) is an American franchised networking organization with around 233,000 members in 8,399 local chapters worldwide. Members meet weekly to discuss business and support each other's businesses by sharing referrals. It claims to be the world's leading 'referral organization'. In 2015, the organization says its members generated referrals resulting in over $9.3 billion in closed business worldwide. \n\nIn 2016, this figure increased to $11.2 billion business passed between members and their referrals (worldwide) and in 2017, $13.6 billion worth of business was passed. BNI was founded in 1985 by Ivan Misner.\n\nIn Sept 2018, this figure grew to $15.5 billion worth of done deals passed between members, with over 242k members worldwide in 8,653 chapters across 70 countries and 10.4 million referrals passed between them. It is one of the biggest networking organization of its kind in the world.\n\nLocal BNI chapters arrange weekly meetings for people from various industries and encourage the building of relationships and the passing of referrals. Members mostly consist of small business owners but medium and large organisations are also represented. Anyone can apply for membership providing they are wiling to attend the weekly meeting, are operating a full-time business and as most Executive Directors would agree, are in a position to grow and scale their business..\n"}
{"id": "208286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=208286", "title": "Banknote", "text": "Banknote\n\nA banknote (often known as a bill, paper money, or simply a note) is a type of negotiable promissory note, made by a bank, payable to the bearer on demand.\nBanknotes were originally issued by commercial banks, which were legally required to redeem the notes for legal tender (usually gold or silver coin) when presented to the chief cashier of the originating bank. These commercial banknotes only traded at face value in the market served by the issuing bank. Commercial banknotes have primarily been replaced by national banknotes issued by central banks.\n\nNational banknotes are generally legal tender, meaning that medium of payment is allowed by law or recognized by a legal system to be valid for meeting a financial obligation. Historically, banks sought to ensure that they could always pay customers in coins when they presented banknotes for payment. This practice of \"backing\" notes with something of substance is the basis for the history of central banks backing their currencies in gold or silver. Today, most national currencies have no backing in precious metals or commodities and have value only by fiat. With the exception of non-circulating high-value or precious metal issues, coins are used for lower valued monetary units, while banknotes are used for higher values.\n\nThe idea of using a durable lightweight substance as evidence of a promise to pay a bearer on demand originated in Roma, Roman promissory notes dated 57 AD have been found in London., in China during the Han Dynasty notes appeared in 118 BC and were made of leather. However, Carthage was purported to have issued bank notes on parchment or leather, at least before the city's destruction in 146 BC, making Carthage the oldest known user of lightweight promissory notes. The first known banknote was first developed in China during the Tang and Song dynasties, starting in the 7th century. Its roots were in merchant receipts of deposit during the Tang Dynasty (618–907), as merchants and wholesalers desired to avoid the heavy bulk of copper coinage in large commercial transactions. During the Yuan Dynasty, banknotes were adopted by the Mongol Empire. In Europe, the concept of banknotes was first introduced during the 13th century by travelers such as Marco Polo, with European banknotes appearing in 1661 in Sweden.\n\nCounterfeiting, the forgery of banknotes, is an inherent challenge in issuing currency. It is countered by anticounterfeiting measures in the printing of banknotes. Fighting the counterfeiting of banknotes and cheques has been a principal driver of security printing methods development in recent centuries.\n\nPaper currency first developed in Tang Dynasty China during the 7th century, although true paper money did not appear until the 11th century, during the Song Dynasty. The usage of paper currency later spread throughout the Mongol Empire or Yuan Dynasty China. European explorers like Marco Polo introduced the concept in Europe during the 13th century. Napoleon issued paper banknotes in the early 1800s. Cash paper money originated as receipts for value held on account \"value received\", and should not be conflated with promissory \"sight bills\" which were issued with a promise to convert at a later date.\n\nThe perception of banknotes as money has evolved over time. Originally, money was based on precious metals. Banknotes were seen by some as an I.O.U. or promissory note: a promise to pay someone in precious metal on presentation (see representative money), but were readily accepted - for convenience and security - in the City of London for example from the late 1600s onwards. With the removal of precious metals from the monetary system, banknotes evolved into pure fiat money.\n\nDevelopment of the banknote began in the Tang Dynasty during the 7th century, with local issues of paper currency, although true paper money did not appear until the 11th century, during the Song Dynasty. Its roots were in merchant receipts of deposit during the Tang Dynasty (618–907), as merchants and wholesalers desired to avoid the heavy bulk of copper coinage in large commercial transactions.\n\nBefore the use of paper, the Chinese used coins that were circular, with a rectangular hole in the middle. Several coins could be strung together on a rope. Merchants in China, if they became rich enough, found that their strings of coins were too heavy to carry around easily. To solve this problem, coins were often left with a trustworthy person, and the merchant was given a slip of paper recording how much money they had with that person. If they showed the paper to that person, they could regain their money. Eventually, the Song Dynasty paper money called \"jiaozi\" originated from these promissory notes.\n\nBy 960 the Song Dynasty, short of copper for striking coins, issued the first generally circulating notes. A note is a promise to redeem later for some other object of value, usually specie. The issue of credit notes is often for a limited duration, and at some discount to the promised amount later. The jiaozi nevertheless did not replace coins during the Song Dynasty; paper money was used alongside the coins.\n\nThe central government soon observed the economic advantages of printing paper money, issuing a monopoly right of several of the deposit shops to the issuance of these certificates of deposit. By the early 12th century, the amount of banknotes issued in a single year amounted to an annual rate of 26 million strings of cash coins. By the 1120s the central government officially stepped in and produced their own state-issued paper money (using woodblock printing).\nEven before this point, the Song government was amassing large amounts of paper tribute. It was recorded that each year before 1101 AD, the prefecture of Xin'an (modern Shexian, Anhui) alone would send 1,500,000 sheets of paper in seven different varieties to the capital at Kaifeng. In that year of 1101, the Emperor Huizong of Song decided to lessen the amount of paper taken in the tribute quota, because it was causing detrimental effects and creating heavy burdens on the people of the region. However, the government still needed masses of paper product for the exchange certificates and the state's new issuing of paper money. For the printing of paper money alone, the Song court established several government-run factories in the cities of Huizhou, Chengdu, Hangzhou, and Anqi.\n\nThe size of the workforce employed in these paper money factories were quite large, as it was recorded in 1175 AD, that the factory at Hangzhou alone employed more than a thousand workers a day. However, the government issues of paper money were not yet nationwide standards of currency at that point; issues of banknotes were limited to regional zones of the empire, and were valid for use only in a designated and temporary limit of three years.\n\nThe geographic limitation changed between the years 1265 and 1274, when the late Southern Song government finally produced a nationwide standard currency of paper money, once its widespread circulation was backed by gold or silver. The range of varying values for these banknotes was perhaps from one string of cash to one hundred at the most. Ever since 1107, the government printed money in no less than six ink colors and printed notes with intricate designs and sometimes even with mixture of unique fiber in the paper to avoid counterfeiting.\n\nThe founder of the Yuan Dynasty, Kublai Khan, issued paper money known as Chao in his reign. The original notes during the Yuan Dynasty were restricted in area and duration as in the Song Dynasty, but in the later course of the dynasty, facing massive shortages of specie to fund their ruling in China, they began printing paper money without restrictions on duration. The Venetian merchants were impressed by the fact that the Chinese paper money was guaranteed by the State.\n\nAccording to a travelogue of a visit to Prague in 960 by Ibrahim ibn Yaqub, small pieces of cloth were used as a means of trade, with these cloths having a set exchange rate versus silver.\n\nAround 1150 the Knights Templar issued bank notes to pilgrims, pilgrims deposited their valuables with a local Templar preceptory before embarking, received a document indicating the value of their deposit, then used that document upon arrival in the Holy Land to retrieve their funds in an amount of treasure of equal value.\nIn the 13th century, Chinese paper money of Mongol Yuan became known in Europe through the accounts of travelers, such as Marco Polo and William of Rubruck. Marco Polo's account of paper money during the Yuan Dynasty is the subject of a chapter of his book, \"The Travels of Marco Polo\", titled \".\"\n\nIn medieval Italy and Flanders, because of the insecurity and impracticality of transporting large sums of cash over long distances, money traders started using promissory notes. In the beginning these were personally registered, but they soon became a written order to pay the amount to whoever had it in their possession. These notes are seen as a predecessor to regular banknotes by some but are mainly thought of as proto bills of exchange and cheques. The term \"bank note\" comes from the notes of the bank (\"nota di banco\") and dates from the 14th century; it originally recognized the right of the holder of the note to collect the precious metal (usually gold or silver) deposited with a banker (via a currency account). In the 14th century, it was used in every part of Europe and in Italian city-state merchants colonies outside of Europe. For international payments, the more efficient and sophisticated bill of exchange (\"lettera di cambio\"), that is, a promissory note based on a virtual currency account (usually a coin no longer physically existing), was used more often. All physical currencies were physically related to this virtual currency; this instrument also served as credit.\n\nThe shift toward the use of these receipts as a means of payment took place in the mid-17th century, as the price revolution, when relatively rapid gold inflation, was causing a re-assessment of how money worked. The goldsmith-bankers of London began to give out the receipts as payable to the \"bearer\" of the document rather than the original depositor. This meant that the note could be used as currency based on the security of the goldsmith, not the account holder of the goldsmith-banker. The bankers also began issuing a greater value of notes than the total value of their physical reserves in the form of loans, on the assumption that they would not have to redeem all of their issued banknotes at the same time. This pivotal shift changed the simple promissory note into an agency for the expansion of the monetary supply itself. As these receipts were increasingly used in the money circulation system, depositors began to ask for multiple receipts to be made out in smaller, fixed denominations for use as money. The receipts soon became a written order to pay the amount to whoever had possession of the note. These notes are credited as the first modern banknotes.\n\nThe first short-lived attempt at issuing banknotes by a central bank was in 1661 by Stockholms Banco, a predecessor of Sweden's central bank Sveriges Riksbank. These replaced the copper-plates being used instead as a means of payment. This banknote issue was brought about by the peculiar circumstances of the Swedish coin supply. Cheap foreign imports of copper had forced the Crown to steadily increase the size of the copper coinage to maintain its value relative to silver. The heavy weight of the new coins encouraged merchants to deposit it in exchange for receipts. These became banknotes when the manager of the Bank decoupled the rate of note issue from the bank currency reserves. Three years later, the bank went bankrupt, after rapidly increasing the artificial money supply through the large-scale printing of paper money. A new bank, the \"Riksens Ständers Bank\" was established in 1668, but did not issue banknotes until the 19th century.\n\nThe modern banknote rests on the assumption that money is determined by a social and legal consensus. A gold coin's value is simply a reflection of the supply and demand mechanism of a society exchanging goods in a free market, as opposed to stemming from any intrinsic property of the metal. By the late 17th century, this new conceptual outlook helped to stimulate the issue of banknotes. The economist Nicholas Barbon wrote that money \"was an imaginary value made by a law for the convenience of exchange.\" A temporary experiment of banknote issue was carried out by Sir William Phips as the Governor of the Province of Massachusetts Bay in 1690 to help fund the war effort against France.\nThe first bank to initiate the permanent issue of banknotes was the Bank of England. Established in 1694 to raise money for the funding of the war against France, the bank began issuing notes in 1695 with the promise to pay the bearer the value of the note on demand. They were initially handwritten to a precise amount and issued on deposit or as a loan. There was a gradual move toward the issuance of fixed denomination notes, and by 1745, standardized printed notes ranging from £20 to £1,000 were being printed. Fully printed notes that did not require the name of the payee and the cashier's signature first appeared in 1855.\n\nThe Scottish economist John Law helped establish banknotes as a formal currency in France, after the wars waged by Louis XIV left the country with a shortage of precious metals for coinage.\n\nIn the United States there were early attempts at establishing a central bank in 1791 and 1816, but it was only in 1862 that the federal government of the United States began to print banknotes.\n\nOriginally, the banknote was simply a promise to the bearer that they could redeem it for its value in specie, but in 1833 the second in a series of Bank Charter Acts established that banknotes would be considered as legal tender during peacetime.\n\nUntil the mid-nineteenth century, commercial banks were able to issue their own banknotes, and notes issued by provincial banking companies were the common form of currency throughout England, outside London. The Bank Charter Act of 1844, which established the modern central bank, restricted authorisation to issue new banknotes to the Bank of England, which would henceforth have sole control of the money supply in 1921. At the same time, the Bank of England was restricted to issue new banknotes only if they were 100% backed by gold or up to £14 million in government debt. The Act gave the Bank of England an effective monopoly over the note issue from 1928.\n\nGenerally, a central bank or treasury is solely responsible within a state or currency union for the issue of banknotes. However, this is not always the case, and historically the paper currency of countries was often handled entirely by private banks. Thus, many different banks or institutions may have issued banknotes in a given country. Commercial banks in the United States had legally issued banknotes before there was a national currency; however, these became subject to government authorization from 1863 to 1932. In the last of these series, the issuing bank would stamp its name and promise to pay, along with the signatures of its president and cashier on a preprinted note. By this time, the notes were standardized in appearance and not too different from Federal Reserve Notes.\nIn a small number of countries, private banknote issue continues to this day. For example, by virtue of the complex constitutional setup in the United Kingdom, certain commercial banks in two of the state's four constituent countries (Scotland and Northern Ireland) continue to print their own banknotes for domestic circulation, even though they are not fiat money or declared in law as legal tender anywhere. The UK's central bank, the Bank of England, prints notes which are legal tender in England and Wales; these notes are also usable as money (but not legal tender) in the rest of the UK (see Banknotes of the pound sterling).\n\nIn the two Special Administrative Regions of the People's Republic of China, arrangements are similar to those in the UK; in Hong Kong, three commercial banks are licensed to issue Hong Kong dollar notes, and in Macau, banknotes of the Macanese pataca are issued by two different commercial banks. In Luxembourg, the Banque Internationale à Luxembourg was entitled to issue its own Luxembourgish franc notes until the introduction of the Euro in 1999.\n\nAs well as commercial issuers, other organizations may have note-issuing powers; for example, until 2002 the Singapore dollar was issued by the Board of Commissioners of Currency Singapore, a government agency which was later taken over by the Monetary Authority of Singapore.\n\nAs with any printing, there is also a chance for banknotes to have printing errors. For U.S. banknotes, these errors can include board break errors, butterfly fold errors, cutting errors, dual denomination errors, fold over errors, and misalignment errors.\n\nPrior to the introduction of banknotes, precious or semi-precious metals minted into coins to certify their substance were widely used as a medium of exchange. The value that people attributed to coins was originally based upon the value of the metal unless they were token issues or had been debased. Banknotes were originally a claim for the coins held by the bank, but due to the ease with which they could be transferred and the confidence that people had in the capacity of the bank to settle the notes in coin if presented, they became a popular means of exchange in their own right. They now make up a very small proportion of the \"money\" that people think that they have as demand deposit bank accounts and electronic payments have negated the need to carry notes and coins.\n\nBanknotes have a natural advantage over coins in that they are lighter to carry but are also less durable. Banknotes issued by commercial banks had counterparty risk, meaning that the bank may not be able to make payment when the note was presented. Notes issued by central banks had a theoretical risk when they were backed by gold and silver. Both banknotes and coins are subject to inflation. The durability of coins means that even if metal coins melt in a fire or are submerged under the sea for hundreds of years they still have some value when they are recovered. Gold coins salvaged from shipwrecks retain almost all of their original appearance, but silver coins slowly corrode.\n\nOther costs of using bearer money include:\n\n\nThe different disadvantages between coins and banknotes imply that there may be an ongoing role for both forms of bearer money, each being used where its advantages outweigh its disadvantages.\n\nMost banknotes are made from cotton paper with a weight of 80 to 90 grams per square meter. The cotton is sometimes mixed with linen, abaca, or other textile fibres. Generally, the paper used is different from ordinary paper: it is much more resilient, resists wear and tear (the average life of a banknote is two years), and also does not contain the usual agents that make ordinary paper glow slightly under ultraviolet light. Unlike most printing and writing paper, banknote paper is infused with polyvinyl alcohol or gelatin, instead of water, to give it extra strength. Early Chinese banknotes were printed on paper made of mulberry bark. Mitsumata (\"Edgeworthia chrysantha\") and other fibers are used in Japanese banknote paper (a kind of Washi).\n\nMost banknotes are made using the mould made process in which a watermark and thread is incorporated during the paper forming process. The thread is a simple looking security component found in most banknotes. It is however often rather complex in construction comprising fluorescent, magnetic, metallic and micro print elements. By combining it with watermarking technology the thread can be made to surface periodically on one side only. This is known as windowed thread and further increases the counterfeit resistance of the banknote paper. This process was invented by Portals, part of the De La Rue group in the UK. Other related methods include watermarking to reduce the number of corner folds by strengthening this part of the note, coatings to reduce the accumulation of dirt on the note, and plastic windows in the paper that make it very hard to copy.\n\nWhen paper bank notes were first introduced in England in the 1790s, they resulted in a dramatic rise in counterfeiting. The attempts by the Bank of England and the Royal Mint to stamp out currency crime led to new policing strategies, including the increased use of entrapment. \n\nThe characteristics of bank notes, their materials and production techniques (as well as their development over history) are topics that normally aren't thoroughly examined by historians, even though now there are a number of works detailing how bank notes were actually constructed. This is mostly due to the fact that historians prioritize the theoretical understanding of how money worked rather than how it was produced. The first great deterrent against counterfeiting was the death penalty for forgers, but this wasn't enough to stop the rise of counterfeiting. Over the XVIII century, far less banknotes were circulating in England compared to the boom of bank notes in the XIX century and, because of this, improving notes making techniques wasn't considered an impelling issue.\n\nIn the XVIII century, bank notes were produced mainly through copper-plate engraving and printing and they were single-sided. Notes making technologies remained basically the same during the XVIII century The first banknotes were produced through the so-called \"intaglio printing\", a technique that consisted of engraving a copper plate by hand and then covering it in ink to print the bank notes. Only with this technique it was possible, at that time, to force the paper into the lines of the engraving and to make suitable banknotes. Another factor that made it harder to counterfeit banknotes was the paper, since the type of paper used for banknotes was rather different from the paper commercially available at that time. Despite this, some forgers managed to successfully forge notes by getting involved and consulting paper makers, in order to make a similar kind of paper by themselves. Furthermore, watermarked paper was also used since banknotes first appeared; it involved the sewing of a thin wire frame into paper mould. Watermarks for notes were first used in 1697 by a Berkshire paper maker whose name was Rice Watkins. Watermarks, together with a special paper type, were supposed to make it harder and more expensive to forge banknotes, since more complex and expensive paper making machines were needed in order to make them.\n\nAt the beginning of the XIX century (the so-called Bank Restriction Period, 1797-1821), the dramatically increased demand of bank notes slowly forced the banks to refine the technologies employed. In 1801, watermarks, which previously were straight lines, became wavy, thanks to the idea of a watermark mould maker whose name was William Brewer. This made even harder the counterfeiting of bank notes, at least in the short term, since in 1803 the number of forged bank notes fell to just 3000, compared to 5000 of the previous year In the same period, bank notes also started to become double-sided and with more complex patterns, and banks asked skilled engravers and artists to help them make their notes harder to counterfeit (episode labelled by historians as \"the search for the inimitable banknote\").\n\nThe ease with which paper money can be created, by both legitimate authorities and counterfeiters, has led both to a temptation in times of crisis such as war or revolution to produce paper money which was not supported by precious metal or other goods, thus leading to Hyperinflation and a loss of faith in the value of paper money, e.g. the Continental Currency produced by the Continental Congress during the American Revolution, the Assignats produced during the French Revolution, the paper currency produced by the Confederate States of America and the individual states of the Confederate States of America, the financing of World War I by the Central Powers (by 1922 1 gold Austro-Hungarian krone of 1914 was worth 14,400 paper Kronen), the devaluation of the Yugoslav Dinar in the 1990s, etc. Banknotes may also be overprinted to reflect political changes that occur faster than new currency can be printed.\n\nIn 1988, Austria produced the 5000 Schilling banknote (Mozart), which is the first foil application (Kinegram) to a paper banknote in the history of banknote printing. The application of optical features is now in common use throughout the world. Many countries' banknotes now have embedded holograms.\n\nIn 1983, Costa Rica and Haiti issued the first Tyvek and the Isle of Man issued the first Bradvek polymer (or plastic) banknotes; these were printed by the American Banknote Company and developed by DuPont. These early plastic notes were plagued with issues such as ink wearing off and were discontinued. In 1988, after significant research and development in Australia by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation (CSIRO) and the Reserve Bank of Australia, Australia produced the first polymer banknote made from biaxially-oriented polypropylene (plastic), and in 1996, it became the first country to have a full set of circulating polymer banknotes of all denominations completely replacing its paper banknotes. Since then, other countries to adopt circulating polymer banknotes include Bangladesh, Brazil, Brunei, Canada, Chile, Guatemala, Dominican Republic, Indonesia, Israel, Malaysia, Mexico, Nepal, New Zealand, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Romania, Samoa, Singapore, the Solomon Islands, Thailand, the United Kingdom, Vietnam, and Zambia, with other countries issuing commemorative polymer notes, including China, Kuwait, the Northern Bank of Northern Ireland, Taiwan and Hong Kong. Another country indicating plans to issue polymer banknotes is Nigeria. In 2005, Bulgaria issued the world's first hybrid paper-polymer banknote.\n\nPolymer banknotes were developed to improve durability and prevent counterfeiting through incorporated security features, such as optically variable devices that are extremely difficult to reproduce.\n\nOver the years, a number of materials other than paper have been used to print banknotes. This includes various textiles, including silk, and materials such as leather.\n\nSilk and other fibers have been commonly used in the manufacture of various banknote papers, intended to provide both additional durability and security. Crane and Company patented banknote paper with embedded silk threads in 1844 and has supplied paper to the United States Treasury since 1879. Banknotes printed on pure silk \"paper\" include \"emergency money\" Notgeld issues from a number of German towns in 1923 during a period of fiscal crisis and hyperinflation. Most notoriously, Bielefeld produced a number of silk, leather, velvet, linen and wood issues. These issues were produced primarily for collectors, rather than for circulation. They are in demand by collectors. Banknotes printed on cloth include a number of Communist Revolutionary issues in China from areas such as Xinjiang, or Sinkiang, in the United Islamic Republic of East Turkestan in 1933. Emergency money was also printed in 1902 on khaki shirt fabric during the Boer War.\n\nCotton is the material of the banknotes in the United States. Leather banknotes (or coins) were issued in a number of sieges, as well as in other times of emergency. During the Russian administration of Alaska, banknotes were printed on sealskin. A number of 19th century issues are known in Germanic and Baltic states, including the places of Dorpat, Pernau, Reval, Werro and Woiseck. In addition to the Bielefeld issues, other German leather Notgeld from 1923 is known from Borna, Osterwieck, Paderborn and Pößneck.\n\nOther issues from 1923 were printed on wood, which was also used in Canada in 1763–1764 during Pontiac's Rebellion, and by the Hudson's Bay Company. In 1848, in Bohemia, wooden checkerboard pieces were used as money.\n\nEven playing cards were used for currency in France in the early 19th century, and in French Canada from 1685 until 1757, the Colony of Louisiana, Dutch Guiana, and in the Isle of Man in the beginning of the 19th century, and again in Germany after World War I.\n\nMost recently, Bisphenol S (BPS), has been frequently used in the production of banknotes worldwide. BPS is an endocrine disruptor that is subject to human dermal absorption through handling banknotes.\n\nVertical currency is a type of currency in which the orientation has been changed from the conventional horizontal orientation to a vertical orientation. Dowling Duncan, a self-touted multidisciplinary design studio, conducted a study in which they determined people tend to handle and deal with money vertically rather than horizontally, especially when the currency is processed through ATM and other money machines. They also note how money transactions are conducted vertically not horizontally. Bermuda, Cape Verde, Israel, Switzerland, and Venezuela have adopted vertically oriented currency, although Israel is now reverting to horizontal orientation.\n\nSince 1979, Sri Lanka has unusually printed the reverse of its banknotes vertically. The 2018 series Hong Kong dollar banknotes has the obverse is in traditional horizontal layout, while the reverse adopts vertical format.\n\nEarly Chinese banknotes were also vertical, due to the direction of Chinese writing.\n\nThe 2018 Canadian $10 bill featuring a portrait of Canadian civil rights pioneer Viola Desmond will be presented in a vertical format. The Northern Irish £5 and £10 notes issued by Ulster Bank for 2019 will also be presented in this way.\n\nPeople are not the only economic actors who are required to accept banknotes. In the late 20th century, vending machines were designed to recognize banknotes of the smaller values long after they were designed to recognize coins distinct from slugs. This capability has become inescapable in economies where inflation has not been followed by introduction of progressively larger coin denominations (such as the United States, where several attempts to make dollar coins popular in general circulation have largely failed). The existing infrastructure of such machines presents one of the difficulties in changing the design of these banknotes to make them less counterfeitable, that is, by adding additional features so easily discernible by people that they would immediately reject banknotes of inferior quality, for every machine in the country would have to be updated.\n\nIn the United States, banknotes last an average of three years until they are no longer fit for circulation, after which they are collected for destruction, usually recycling or shredding. A banknote is removed from the money supply by banks or other financial institutions because of everyday wear and tear from its handling. Banknote bundles are passed through a sorting machine that determines whether a particular note needs to be shredded, or are removed from the supply chain by a human inspector if they are deemed unfit for continued use – for example, if they are mutilated or torn. Counterfeit banknotes are destroyed unless they are needed for evidentiary or forensic purposes.\n\nContaminated banknotes are also decommissioned. A Canadian government report indicates:\n\nThese are removed from circulation primarily to prevent the spread of diseases.\n\nWhen taken out of circulation, Australian plastic/polymer bank notes are melted down and mixed together to form plastic garbage bins.\n\nIn the US, the nickname \"Fed Shreds\" refers to paper money which has been shredded after becoming unfit for circulation. Although these shredded banknotes are generally landfilled, they are sometimes sold in small bags as souvenirs.\n\nIntelligent banknote neutralisation systems (IBNS) are security systems which render banknotes unusable by marking them permanently as stolen with a degradation agent. Marked (stained) banknotes cannot be brought back into circulation easily and can be linked to the crime scene. Today's most used degradation agent is a special security ink which cannot be removed from the banknote easily and not without destroying the banknote itself, but other agents also exist. Today IBNSs are used to protect banknotes in automated teller machines, retail machines, and during cash-in-transit operations.\n\nDynamic Intelligent Currency Encryption (DICE) is a security technology introduced in 2014 by British company EDAQS, which devaluates banknotes remotely that are illegal or have been stolen. The technology is based on identifiable banknotes - that could be an RFID chip or a barcode - and connects to a digital security system to verify the validity of the banknote. The company claims that the banknotes are unforgeable and contribute to solve cash-related problems as well as fight crime and terrorism. In another note, the DICE benefits cover and solve almost all cash-related issues that are seen by governments to be a motivation for the progressive abolition of cash.\nIn the United States there are many laws that allow the confiscation of cash and other assets from the bearer if there is suspicion that the money came from an illegal activity. Because a significant amount of U.S. currency contains traces of cocaine and other illegal drugs, it is not uncommon for innocent people searched at airports or stopped for traffic violations to have cash in their possession sniffed by dogs for drugs and then have the cash seized because the dog smelled drugs on the money. It is then up to the owner of the money to prove where the cash came from at his own expense. Many people simply forfeit the money. In 1994, the United States Court of Appeals, Ninth Circuit, held in the case of \"UNITED STATES of America v. U.S. CURRENCY, $30,060.00\" (39 F.3d 1039 63 USLW 2351, No. 92-55919) that the widespread presence of illegal substances on paper currency in the Los Angeles area created a situation where the reaction of a drug-sniffing dog would not create probable cause for civil forfeiture.\n\nBanknotes have increasingly been displaced by credit and debit cards and electronic money transfers. Some governments, such as Canada, are considering replacing paper notes and coins with digital currency. Sweden has begun implementing digital currency.\n\nBanknote collecting, or Notaphily, is a slowly growing area of numismatics. Although generally not as widespread as coin and stamp collecting, the hobby is slowly expanding. Prior to the 1990s, currency collecting was a relatively small adjunct to coin collecting, but currency auctions and greater public awareness of paper money have caused more interest in rare banknotes and consequently their increased value.\n\nSince 2007 Sanjay Relan, of Hong Kong, has held the Guinness world record for collecting 221 banknotes representing 221 different countries. For a short period in 2007, he also held the Guinness world record for collecting 235 coins representing 235 different countries.\n\nFor years, the mode of collecting banknotes was through a handful of mail order dealers who issued price lists and catalogs. In the early 1990s, it became more common for rare notes to be sold at various coin and currency shows via auction. The illustrated catalogs and \"event nature\" of the auction practice seemed to fuel a sharp rise in overall awareness of paper money in the numismatic community. The emergence of currency third party grading services (similar to services that grade and \"slab\", or encapsulate, coins) also may have increased collector and investor interest in notes. Entire advanced collections are often sold at one time, and to this day single auctions can generate millions in gross sales. Today, eBay has surpassed auctions in terms of highest volume of sales of banknotes. However, rare banknotes still sell for much less than comparable rare coins. This disparity is diminishing as paper money prices continue to rise. A few rare and historical banknotes have sold for more than a million dollars.\n\nThere are many different organizations and societies around the world for the hobby, including the International Bank Note Society (IBNS), which currently assert to have around 2,000 members in 90 countries.\n\nThe universal appeal and instant recognition of bank notes has resulted in a plethora of novelty merchandise that is designed to have the appearance of paper currency. These items cover nearly every class of product. Cloth material printed with bank note patterns is used for clothing, bed linens, curtains, upholstery and more. Acrylic paperweights and even toilet seats with bank notes embedded inside are also common. Items that resemble stacks of bank notes and can be used as a seat or ottoman are also available.\n\nManufacturers of these items must take into consideration when creating these products whether the product could be construed as counterfeiting. Overlapping note images and/or changing the dimensions of the reproduction to be at least 50% smaller or 50% larger than the original are some ways to avoid the risk of being considered a counterfeit. But in cases where realism is the goal, other steps may be necessary. For example, in the stack of bank notes seat mentioned earlier, the decal used to create the product would be considered counterfeit. However, once the decal has been affixed to the resin stack shell and cannot be peeled off, the final product is no longer at risk of being classified as counterfeit, even though the resulting appearance is realistic.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36310339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36310339", "title": "Bosse Johansson (chairman)", "text": "Bosse Johansson (chairman)\n\nBosse Johansson (born 1965) is the CEO at Swedbank Sjuhärad in Borås. He also has been a Chairman of IF Elfsborg since 2004, where he replaced Sture Svensson after his resignment. He was chosen along with Elfsborg's new Sporting Director Stefan Andreasson.\n"}
{"id": "20902909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20902909", "title": "Brighton and Hove city centre", "text": "Brighton and Hove city centre\n\nBrighton and Hove City Centre is the commercial and cultural centre of the city of Brighton. Geographically, the so-called city centre is located in an easterly part of the Brighton and Hove urban conurbation.\n\nThe North Laine area has a network of streets dubbed the 'Cultural Quarter', so called because of its concentration of theatres, galleries and small venues. This area covers New Road, the location of the Theatre Royal, and the Brighton Dome complex which includes the Pavilion Theatre, Corn Exchange Theatre and the Dome Concert Hall. Next to this is Brighton Museum and Art Gallery. Bordering New Road and the Dome is Pavilion Gardens which is home to the Royal Pavilion, former palace residence of King George IV. Opposite New Road is Jubilee Street, a modern redevelopment containing restaurant and cafe chains. It is also the location of the Jubilee Library, the city's central library.\n\nOn the seafront is the Fishing Museum and near Brighton railway station is the Brighton Toy and Model Museum. The Old Steine and St. Peter's area is a large patch of green in the city centre which is the location of a war memorial, the Frankish St. Peter's Church and two art galleries: the Phoenix Gallery and the University of Brighton gallery.\n\nBrighton is home to hundreds of shops and is renowned for its wealth of independent shops. Most of the chain stores can be found on Western Road and Churchill Square. The other major high streets are West Street, Queens Road, North Street, East Street, Duke Street and Ship Street.\n\nThe Lanes are the centre of Brighton's old town and consist of narrow streets and alleyways. The area is home to lots of jewellery and antique shops.\n\nNorth of the Lanes is the North Laine, both a residential and major commercial area, and the location of most of the city's independent shops. The commercial area of North Laine is centred on Trafalgar Street, Sydney Street, Gloucester Road, Kensington Gardens, North Road, Gardner Street, Church Street and Bond Street. The area is also home to small art galleries and Komedia, a theatre, bar, comedy venue and cinema. The area is also home to Jubilee Square, home of Jubilee library and a number of restaurants.\n\nA little more east of the main high streets is Kemptown, home to many gay shops and other businesses. Its main shopping thoroughfare is St. James' Street, which has many cafés and restaurants, such as The Saint restaurant and Redroaster Coffee House.\n\nBrighton Pier (or, the Palace Pier) is home to many rides and other amusements such as fortune tellers and prize winning games. Near the pier is Brighton Sea Life centre, an aquarium. Near the aquarium is Volks Electric Railway, a historic electric railway, providing transportation to Brighton Marina. West Street is the city's centre for nightlife as home to a number of night clubs and late-night bars.\n\nThe city centre is well served by public transport. Brighton and Hove Buses run regularly throughout the area with stops and stations at Churchill Square, Brighton Station, the Clock Tower, North Street and the Old Steine. Buses serve as the main mode of public transport in Brighton and Hove connecting all suburbs and outer areas to the city centre.\n\nThere are major taxi ranks located in Brighton Station and East Street.\n\nNear the Old Steine is Pool Valley Coach Station which is used for intercity travel.\n\nBrighton Railway station serves as the city's main rail terminus and has good links to London, Gatwick Airport and the south coast. Hove railway station serves the centre of Hove and can be reached from Brighton in less than five minutes. London Road Station is near Preston Circus. The rail network in Brighton and Hove is not as extensive as the bus network, however certain suburbs and university campus are well connected to the centre of Brighton and Hove by rail.\n\nThere are numerous hotels in the city centre, some of the more notable ones include The Grand Hotel, the Hilton Metropole Hotel, the Royal Albion Hotel and the Ramada Hotel.\n\n"}
{"id": "9156469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9156469", "title": "Business networking", "text": "Business networking\n\nNetworking is a socioeconomic business activity by which businesspeople and entrepreneurs meet to form business relationships and to recognize, create, or act upon business opportunities, share information and seek potential partners for ventures.\n\nIn the second half of the twentieth century, the concept of networking was promoted to help businesspeople to build their social capital. In the US, workplace equity advocates encouraged business networking by members of marginalized groups (e.g., women, African-Americans, etc.) to identify and address the challenges barring them from professional success. Mainstream business literature subsequently adopted the terms and concepts, promoted them as pathways to success for all career climbers. Since the closing decades of the twentieth century, \"networking\" has become an accepted term and concept in American society. In the 2000s, \"networking\" has expanded beyond its roots as a business practice to the point that parents meeting to share child-rearing tips to scientists meeting research colleagues are described as engaging in \"networking\".\n\nA business network is a type of business social network which is developed to help business people connect with other managers and entrepreneurs to further each other's business interests by forming mutually beneficial business relationships. Business networking is a way of leveraging your business and personal connections to help bring you regular supply of new business. There are several prominent business networking organizations that create models of networking events that, when followed, allow the business person to build new business relationships and generate business opportunities at the same time. A professional network service is an implementation of information technology in support of business networking. Chambers of Commerce and other business-oriented groups may also organize networking activities. There are multiple different types of networking groups though and the best type for each individuals varies depending on the business they are in and prospects they want to meet.\n\nBefore online business networking, there existed face-to-face networking for business. This was achieved through a number of techniques such as trade show marketing and loyalty programs. Though these techniques have been proven to still be an effective source of income, many companies now focus more on online marketing due to the ability to track every detail of a campaign and justify the expenditure involved in setting up one of these campaigns. \"Schmoozing\" or \"rubbing elbows\" are expressions used among professional business professionals for introducing and meeting one another in a business context, and establishing business rapport.\n\nNetworking can be an effective way for job-seekers to gain a competitive edge over others in the job-market. The skilled networker cultivates personal relationships with prospective employers and selection panelists, in the hope that these personal affections will influence future hiring decisions. This form of networking has raised ethical concerns. The objection is that it constitutes an attempt to corrupt formal selection processes. The networker is accused of seeking non-meritocratic advantage over other candidates; advantage that is based on personal fondness rather than on any objective appraisal of which candidate is most qualified for the position.\n\nMany businesses use networking as a key factor in their marketing plan. It helps to develop a strong feeling of trust between those involved and play a big part in raising the profile of a company. Suppliers and businesses can be seen as networked businesses, and will tend to source the business and their suppliers through their existing relationships and those of the companies they work closely with. Networked businesses tend to be open, random, and supportive, whereas those relying on hierarchical, traditional managed approaches are closed, selective, and controlling. These phrases were first used by Thomas Power, businessman and chairman of Ecademy, an online business network, in 2009.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21087074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21087074", "title": "Curtain coating", "text": "Curtain coating\n\nCurtain coating is a process that creates an uninterrupted curtain of fluid that falls onto a substrate. The substrate is transported on a conveyor belt or calender rolls at a regulated speed through the curtain to ensure an even coat of the die. The curtain is created by using a slit or die at the base of the holding tank, allowing the liquid to fall upon the substrate. Some polymers are melted and extruded for coating. Many manufactures will also include a catch pan to retrieve and reuse the excess fluid.\n\nCurtain coating is a process in which the object or substrate to be coated is guided through a curtain of fluid located in a gap between two conveyors. The mechanism is formed by a tank of fluid from which a thin screen falls down in between the two conveyors. The thickness of the coating layer that falls upon the object is mainly determined by the speed of the conveyor and the amount of material leaving the tank (pump speed). Curtain coating is a premetered method, which means that the amount of liquid required is supplying from the tank to the screen, to be deposited on the substrate. \n\nCurtain coating is one of the technologies used in the converting industry to modify the properties of substrates.\n\nTo be certain the flow of the liquid is disrupted, an edging along both sides of the slit is required. This is to prohibit the surface tension from causing the coating to taper in; sometimes edging alone is not enough and a surfactant must be added to lower the surface tension.\n\nIt is also important to note that each fluid has its own minimum flow rate. The minimum flow rate is the smallest amount of dye at a given moment to keep the curtain flowing continuously. The minimum flow rate is directly proportional to the surface tension while viscosity is inversely proportional.\n\nCurtain coating is a pre-metered coating method, which means that the exact amount of coating needed to coat the substrate can be calculated before the process is actually accomplished. This is can be done by using the ratio of the flow rate (with respect to volume) and width of the substrate to the speed at which the substrate passes under the \"curtain\" of coating fluid. \n\nBecause of the ability to calculate the exact (or nearly so) amount of fluid needed for a given project, film thickness variations on the finished product can be kept within +/− 0.5% of the target thickness \n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21490677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21490677", "title": "Erlanger Buildings", "text": "Erlanger Buildings\n\nErlanger Buildings is a historic loft building located at Baltimore, Maryland, United States. It consists of a four-structure, turn-of-the-20th-century loft complex. The buildings range in size from two to six stories high and feature iron storefronts and stone detailing. They were built between 1892 and 1910. The buildings served as the home of the Erlanger Manufacturing Company, which produced BVD brand underwear. Charles Erlanger, co-founder of the company, is credited with making major advances in the design of underwear which revolutionized the industry.\n\nThe Erlanger Buildings were listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1980. They are included in the Baltimore National Heritage Area.\n\n"}
{"id": "48497409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48497409", "title": "Evangelos Mytilineos", "text": "Evangelos Mytilineos\n\nEvangelos Mytilineos (Greek: Ευάγγελος Μυτιληναίος, born in Athens in 1954) is a Greek business magnate, chairman of the board of directors of Mytilineos Holdings that he founded in 1990.\n\nEvangelos Mytilineos graduated from the Economics Department of the Law School of Athens University and holds a master's degree in Economics from the London School of Economics.\n\nHe is chairman and CEO of Mytilineos Holdings. He is also chairman of the board in Protergia and vice president of the board ALUMINIUM A. E. since 2004 (subsidiary of Mytilineos and second-largest metals producer of the country). He has been awarded inter alia to important business activity, as Businessman of the Year by the business magazine CAPITAL (1998) and has received the KOUROS award Entrepreneurship Club in the category Innovation and Development (1998).\n\nEvangelos Mytilineos lobbied against Grexit and the heavy tax policy applied in Greece to recover from its debt\n\nIraklis FC was sold in 2000 to Evangelos Mytilineos for almost €3,500,000 (1.18 billion drachmas). Despite the acquisition of many promising players during the first summer, the 2000–2001 season didn't have the expected results, with the club finishing in 5th position of the national championship, out of European qualification spots. However, Iraklis managed to progress to the 2nd round of UEFA Cup. The following summer, Mytilineos sold the highly rated striker Michalis Konstantinou to Panathinaikos, setting a new record for the highest fee received for a domestic transfer.\n"}
{"id": "16521132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16521132", "title": "Export function", "text": "Export function\n\nThe Export function is an idea used in economic theories to measure exports. The total amount of exports, E, in a nation is mainly affected by two variables, see import, the total foreign absorption and the real exchange rate.\n\nE = E(A*,σ) Where A* and σ are variable functions related to the total foreign absorption and the real exchange rate. \n\nFor an explanation of the positive and negative relationship between exports and absorption and the real exchange rate, see import \n\n"}
{"id": "45621535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45621535", "title": "Fikirte Addis", "text": "Fikirte Addis\n\nFikirte Addis (born 1981) is an Ethiopian fashion designer. In 2009, Addis formed her own label–Yefiker Design–which creates clothes that are modern interpretations of traditional Ethiopian dress. Her work rose to prominence by 2011, when she was a featured designer in the second annual Africa Fashion Week in New York City.\n"}
{"id": "41058142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41058142", "title": "Filip Maertens", "text": "Filip Maertens\n\nFilip Maertens (born 1978) is a Belgian tech founder.\nHe was founder of Securax (1999), a Belgium-based cyber-security consulting company (acquired), and founder at Argus Labs (rebranded ) (2012), a Belgium-based context-aware profiling company.\n\nAs a cyber-security researcher, Maertens published multiple software vulnerabilities on Microsoft and Linux platforms, and was a global trainer on the Extreme Hacking courses.\n\nAs a public speaker, Filip has been on TEDx, Cannes Lions, LeWeb, TheNextWeb, Strata and more.\n\nMaertens was named Belgium's Top 50 Entrepreneur (2014) and Innovator (2015).\n\n"}
{"id": "8656358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8656358", "title": "François du Four", "text": "François du Four\n\nBaron François du Four (Turnhout, Belgium, 1871 – 1945) was a Belgian industrialist. He married Germaine Herry in 1902, and together they had seven daughters and a son.\n\nWhen his mother, Josephina Frederika Dessauer, died in 1904, he became the owner of the family business Brepols, a paper - and playing card factory. The company at that moment had about 1000 employees. From 1919 up to 1932 François du Four was mayor of Turnhout. In 1929, King Albert I of Belgium knighted him and granted him the title of baron. The heraldic motto of the du Fours is \"Melius esse quam vider\", which means \"it is better to be than to seem\", and their own weapon-shield represents a lion.\n\nIn Turnhout there is a street named after him: the baron François du Four street, which starts on the central market place of Turnhout. In this street the old factory buildings of Brepols were located. In 1945, Francois du Four died at the age of 74.\n\nFrançois du Four liked racing-horses. His thoroughbreds won a lot of races and a lot of price money. After he died, regretfully, all his horses were sold. In 1904, he had bought a small farm in Retie with neighboring pasture. He was especially looking for a place where he could breed thoroughbreds. In 1905, he started with the construction of the park where now the castle of Retie stands. In 1906, he started the building of a castle and the stables for his horses.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1164997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1164997", "title": "Frédéric Lepied", "text": "Frédéric Lepied\n\nFrédéric Lepied (born 1967) is a French computer engineer, and was the CTO of Mandriva until January 2006.\n\nLepied is a graduate of the ESIEE engineering school in France.\n\nFrédéric Lepied joined the Mandrakesoft Research and Development team in 1999. He is the author of rpmlint, an RPM packages checker (similar to Debian's lintian program). Lepied was the maintainer of several core packages, including XFree86 and the initscripts. He spent one year in Canada in the Mandrakesoft Montreal office, and became Mandrakesoft CTO when he came back to France in 2002.\n\nLepied maintained the wacom tablet driver in XFree86 and in X.Org. He wrote an O'Reilly book on CVS.\n\nHe left Mandriva on February 3, 2006. He then joined Intel Corporation to manage Software manufacturers relationships. \nLate 2008, he joined Splitted Desktop Systems an innovative hardware company, as chief of strategy.\nIn 2013, he became VP Software Engineering at eNovance.\n\n"}
{"id": "251487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=251487", "title": "Genetic counseling", "text": "Genetic counseling\n\nGenetic counseling is the process of advising individuals and families affected by or at risk of genetic disorders to help them understand and adapt to the medical, psychological and familial implications of genetic contributions to disease. The process integrates:\n\n\nSheldon Clark Reed coined the term genetic counseling in 1947 and published the book \"Counseling in Medical Genetics\" in 1955. Most of the early genetic counseling clinics were run by non-medical scientists or by those who were not experienced clinicians. With the growth in knowledge of genetic disorders and the appearance of medical genetics as a distinct specialty in the 1960s, genetic counseling progressively became medicalized, representing one of the key components of clinical genetics. It was not, though, until later that the importance of a firm psychological basis was recognized and became an essential part of genetic counseling, the writings of Seymour Kessler making a particular contribution to this. The first master’s degree genetic counseling program in the United States was founded in 1969 at Sarah Lawrence College in Bronxville, New York. In 1979, the National Society of Genetic Counselors (NSGC) was founded.\n\nGenetic counselors work in a wide variety of patient-facing and non patient-facing settings.\n\nClinical genetic counselors may provide general care, or specialize in one or more areas. Examples include:\n\n\nOutside the clinic, genetic counselors work in areas such as laboratories, research, education, public health settings, and corporate environments. Examples of roles include:\n\n\nA genetic counselor is an expert with a Master of Science degree in genetic counseling. Programs in North America are accredited by the Accreditation Council for Genetic Counseling (ACGC). There are currently 41 accredited programs in the United States, four accredited programs in Canada, and four programs with the intent to become accredited. Students enter the field from a variety of disciplines, including biology/biological sciences and social sciences such as psychology. Graduate school coursework includes topics such as human genetics, embyrology, ethics, research, and counseling theory and techniques. Clinical training including supervised rotations in prenatal, pediatric, adult, cancer, and other subspecialty clinics, as well as non-patient facing rotations in laboratories. Research training typically culminates in a capstone or thesis project.\n\nIn the United States genetic counselors are certified by the American Board of Genetic Counseling. In Canada, genetic counselors are certified by the Canadian Association of Genetic Counsellors.\n\nGraduates from an American Board of Genetic Counseling (ABGC) accredited program who have met specific criteria are eligible to take the examination which is offered twice per year by the ABGC. Although not every company requires its counselors to possess a certification, the certification shows that the practitioner has met the standards \"necessary to provide competent genetic counseling services\".\n\nAs of October 2018, 25 states have passed genetic counselor licensure bills that require genetic counselors to meet a certain set of standards to practice. These states are California, Connecticut, Delaware, Hawaii, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Louisiana, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Nebraska, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, North Dakota, Ohio, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, South Dakota, Tennessee, Utah, Virginia, and Washington. Almost every other state in the US is in the process of obtaining genetic counseling licensure.\n\nAlthough genetic counseling has existed for over four decades, the first licenses for genetic counselors were not issued until 2002. Utah was the first state to do so. The American Society of Human Genetics (ASHG) has since encouraged more states to license genetic counselors before they are allowed to practice. ASHG argues that requiring practitioners to go through the necessary training and testing to obtain a license will ensure quality genetic services as well as allow for reimbursement for counselors’ services. Laws requiring licensure ensure that \"professionals who call themselves genetic counselors are able to properly explain complicated test results that could confuse patients and families making important health decisions\".\n\nInsurance companies usually do not reimburse for unlicensed genetic counselors’ services. Patients who may benefit from genetic counseling may not be able to afford the service due to the expensive out-of-pocket cost. In addition, licensure allows genetic counselors to be searchable in most insurance companies’ databases which gives genetic counselors increased opportunities for earning revenue and clients the opportunity to see \"the level of coverage insurers provide for their services\".\n\nThe goals of genetic counseling are to increase understanding of genetic diseases, discuss disease management options, and explain the risks and benefits of testing. Counseling sessions focus on giving vital, unbiased information and non-directive assistance in the patient's decision-making process. Seymour Kessler, in 1979, first categorized sessions in five phases: an intake phase, an initial contact phase, the encounter phase, the summary phase, and a follow-up phase. The intake and follow-up phases occur outside of the actual counseling session. The initial contact phase is when the counselor and families meet and build rapport. The encounter phase includes dialogue between the counselor and the client about the nature of screening and diagnostic tests. The summary phase provides all the options and decisions available for the next step. If patients wish to go ahead with testing, an appointment is organized and the genetic counselor acts as the person to communicate the results. Result delivery can happen both in person or via phone. Often counselors will call out results to avoid patients having to come back in as results can take weeks to be processed. If further counseling is needed in a more personal setting, or it is determined that additional family members should be tested, a secondary appointment can be made.\n\nDiagnostic testing occurs when an individual is showing signs or symptoms associated with a specific condition. Genetic testing can be used to arrive at a definitive diagnosis in order to provide better prognosis as well as medical management and/or treatment options. Testing can reveal conditions that—while debilitating without treatment—can be mild or asymptomatic with early treatment (such as phenylketonuria). Genetic tests are available for a number of genetic conditions, including but not limited to: Down syndrome, Sickle cell disease, Tay-Sachs disease, Muscular dystrophy. Establishing a genetic diagnosis alerts any other at-risk individuals in the family to consider testing, if appropriate.\n\nAny reproductive risks (e.g. a chance to have a child with the same diagnosis) can also be explored after a diagnosis. Many disorders cannot occur unless both the mother and father pass on their genes, such as cystic fibrosis; this is known as autosomal recessive inheritance. Other autosomal dominant diseases can be inherited from one parent, such as Huntington disease and DiGeorge syndrome. Yet other genetic disorders are caused by an error or mutation occurring during the cell division process (e.g. aneuploidy) and are not hereditary.\n\nScreening tests are often used prior to diagnostic testing, designed to separate people according to a fixed characteristic or property, with the intention of detecting early evidence of disease. For example, if a screening test during a pregnancy (such as maternal blood screening or ultrasound) reveals a risk of a health issue or genetic condition, patients are encouraged to receive genetic counseling to learn additional information regarding the suspected condition and about their options with discussion of management, therapy and treatments available for the conditions, including those after delivery, and those during pregnancy, such as the option to terminate the pregnancy. Patients may decline additional screening and testing, elect to proceed to diagnostic testing, or pursue further screening tests to refine the risk during the pregnancy.\n\nPresymptomatic or predictive testing occurs when an individual knows of a specific diagnosis (typically adult onset) in their family and has other affected relatives, but they themselves do not manifest any clinical findings at the time when they seek testing. The decision about whether or not to proceed with presymptomatic testing should entail a thoughtful approach and consideration of various medical, reproductive, social, insurance, and financial factors, with no “right” or “wrong” answer. Availability of treatment and medical management options for each specific diagnosis, as well as the genetics and inheritance pattern of the particular condition should be reviewed as inherited conditions can have reduced penetrance.\n\nInsurance and legal issues should also be discussed during genetic counseling. There are laws in the United States such as GINA (Genetic Information Non-discrimination Act) and ACA that provide certain protections against discrimination for individuals with genetic diagnoses.\n\nAdult or general genetics clinics serve patients who are diagnosed with genetic conditions that begin to show signs or symptoms in adulthood. Many genetic conditions have varying ages of onset, ranging from an infantile form to an adult form. Genetic counseling can facilitate the decision making process by providing the patient/family with education about the genetic condition as well as the medical management options available to individuals at risk of developing the condition. Adult-onset disorders may overlap multiple specialties.\n\nGenetic counseling is an integral part of the process for patients utilizing preimplantation genetic testing (PGT), formerly called preimplantation genetic diagnosis. There are three types of PGT and all require in vitro fertilization (IVF) using assisted reproductive technology (ART). PGT-M, for monogenic disorders, involves testing embryos for a specific condition before it is implanted into the mother. This technique is currently being done for disorders with childhood onset, such as Cystic Fibrosis, Tay-Sachs and Muscular Dystrophy, as well as adult-onset conditions, including Huntington’s Disease, Hereditary Breast and Ovarian Cancer Syndrome, and Lynch Syndrome. PGT-SR, for structural rearrangements, involves testing embryos to establish a pregnancy unaffected by a structural chromosomal abnormality (translocation). PGT-A, for aneuploidy, was formerly called preimplantation genetic screening, and involved testing embryos to identify any de novo aneuploidy.\n\nGenetic counseling can also involve medical evaluation and clinical work-up for couples with infertility and/or recurrent pregnancy loss, as these histories can be associated with parental chromosome aberrations (such as inversions or translocations) and other genetic conditions.\n\nA rapidly expanding field in genetic counseling is cardiovascular genetics. More than 1 in 200 people have an inherited cardiovascular disease. Hereditary cardiac conditions range from common diseases, such as high cholesterol and coronary artery disease, to rare diseases like Long QT Syndrome, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, aortic and vascular diseases.  Genetic counselors who specialize in cardiovascular disease have developed skills specific to the management of and counseling for cardiovascular disorders. Cardiovascular genetic counselors are also integral in local and national efforts to prevent sudden cardiac death (the leading cause of sudden death in young people) by identifying patients with known or suspected heritable cardiovascular diseases and promoting cascade family screening or testing of at-risk relatives.\n\nCommon referral reasons include:\n\n\nGuidelines on cardiovascular genetics are published by multiple professional societies.\n\nCancer genetic counselors see individuals with a personal diagnosis and/or family history of cancer or symptoms of an inherited cancer syndrome. Genetic counselors take a family history and assess for hereditary risk, or risk that can be passed down from generation to generation. If indicated, they can coordinate genetic testing, typically via blood or saliva sample, to evaluate for hereditary cancer risk.  Personalized medical management and cancer screening recommendations can be provided based on results of genetic testing and/or the family history of cancer. While most cancers are sporadic (not inherited), some are more likely to have a hereditary factor, particularly when occurring at young ages or when clustering in families. These include common cancers such as breast, ovarian, colon and uterine cancers, as well as rare tumor types. General referral indications can include, but are not limited to:\n\n\nGenetic counselors specializing in neurogenetics are involved in the care of individuals who have or are at risk to develop conditions affecting the central nervous system (brain and spinal cord) or peripheral nervous system (the nerves that leave the spinal cord and go to other places in the body, such as the feet and hands, skeletal muscles, and internal organs). Effects of these conditions can lead to various impairments some examples of which include cognitive decline, intellectual disability, seizures, uncontrolled movements (e.g. ataxia, chorea), muscle weakness, paralysis, or atrophy. Examples of neurogenetic disorders include:\n\n\nPediatric genetic counseling can be indicated for newborns, infants, children and their families. General referral indications can include:  \n\nPrenatal genetics involves services for women either during or prior to a pregnancy.\n\nGeneral indications for referral to genetic counseling in the preconception or prenatal setting may include, but are not limited to:\n\n\nPrenatal genetic counseling may help with the decision-making process by walking patients through examples of what some people might do in similar situations, and their rationale for choosing that option. Decisions made by patients are affected by factors including timing, accuracy of information provided by tests, and risk and benefits of the tests. This discussion enables patients to place the information and circumstances into the context of their own lives, and in the context of their own values. They may choose to undergo noninvasive screening (e.g. ultrasound, triple screen, cell-free fetal DNA screening) or invasive diagnostic testing (amniocentesis or chorionic villus sampling). Invasive diagnostic tests possess a small risk of miscarriage (1-2%) but provide more definitive results. Testing is offered to provide a definitive answer regarding the presence of a certain genetic condition or chromosomal abnormality.\n\nPsychiatric genetic counseling is a sub-specialty within genetic counseling focused on helping people living with a psychiatric disorder and/or their family members understand both the genetic and environmental factors that contributed to their illness and address associated emotions such as guilt or self-blame. Genetic counselors also discuss strategies to promote recovery and protect mental health and address any questions on chances for recurrence in other family members. While currently there is no single gene solely responsible for causing a psychiatric disorder, there is strong evidence from family, twin studies, and genome-wide-association studies that both multiple genes and environment interact together. Like other areas of genetic counseling, patients at all different stages of life (pediatric, adult, prenatal) can have psychiatric genetic counseling. Since the etiology of psychiatric disorders is complex and not fully understood, the utility of genetic testing is not as clear as it is in Mendelian or single gene disorders. Research has shown that individuals who receive psychiatric genetic counseling have significant increases in feelings of empowerment and self-efficacy after genetic counseling.\n\nPsychiatric genetic counselors can help \"dispel mistaken notions about psychiatric disorders, calm needless anxiety, and help those at risk to draw up a rational plan of action based on the best available information\".\n\nThere are different approaches to genetic counseling. Some counselors favor a more purely psycho-educational approach while others incorporate more psycho-therapeutic techniques. Genetic counseling is psycho-educational as patients \"learn how genetics contributes to their health risks and then process what this means and how it feels.\"\n\n\"Whether the process of genetic counseling is a form of psychotherapy is up for debate\". The relationship between the client and counselor is similar as are the goals of the sessions. As a psychotherapist aims to help his client improve his wellbeing, a genetic counselor also helps his client to address a \"situational health threat that similarly threatens client wellbeing\". Due to the lack of studies which compare genetic counseling to the practice of psychotherapy, it is hard to say with certainty whether genetic counseling can be \"conceptualized as a short-term, applied, specific type of psychotherapy\". However, there few existing studies suggest that genetic counseling falls \"significantly short of psychotherapeutic counseling\" because genetic counseling sessions primarily consist of the distribution of information without much emphasis placed on explaining any long-term impacts to the client.\n\nGenetic counselors provide supportive counseling to families, serve as patient advocates and refer individuals and families to community or state support services. They serve as educators and resource people for other health care professionals and for the general public. Many engage in research activities related to the field of medical genetics and genetic counseling. When communicating increased risk, counselors anticipate the likely distress and prepare patients for the results. Counselors help clients cope with and adapt to the emotional, psychological, medical, social, and economic consequences of the test results.\n\nEach individual considers their family needs, social setting, cultural background, and religious beliefs when interpreting their risk. Clients must evaluate their reasoning to continue with testing at all. Counselors are present to put all the possibilities in perspective and encourage clients to take time to think about their decision. When a risk is found, counselors frequently reassure parents that they were not responsible for the result. An informed choice without pressure or coercion is made when all relevant information has been given and understood.\n\nAfter counseling for other hereditary conditions, the patient may be presented with the option of having genetic testing. In some circumstances no genetic testing is indicated, other times it may be useful to begin the testing process with an affected family member. The genetic counselor also reviews the advantages and disadvantages of genetic testing with the patient.\n\nMany studies have examined the attitudes of the lay public toward genetic counseling and genetic testing. Barriers to obtaining genetic counseling include lack of understanding of genetics by both patients and healthcare providers, concerns about cost and insurance, and fears of stigma and/or discrimination.\n\nNo simple correlation has been found between the change in technology to the changes in values and beliefs towards genetic testing.\n\nIn 2018, there are nearly 7000 genetic counselors practicing worldwide, across at least 28 countries.\n\nGenetic counseling in China (mainland) has been primarily provided by pediatricians or obstetricians for prenatal or birth defect diagnoses. Most genetic tests can only be performed in academic institutions as research tests or in commercial direct-to-consumer companies for non-clinical use.\n\nIn China, genetic counseling is steered by the Chinese Board of Genetic Counseling (CBGC), a not-for-profit organization. CBGC is composed of senior experts engaged in genetic education and research. CBGC is committed to establishing standardized procedures of genetic counseling, training qualified genetic counselors, improving health for all, and reducing the incidence of birth defects. CBGC was established in 2015 and is the major professional organization for genetic counselors in mainland China, providing training through short term online and in-person lectures, educational conferences, and certification for trainees.    \n\nGenetics education in China began in the 1980s when selected medical schools began offering genetics courses that focused predominantly on molecular genetics and had limited clinical content. At present, there are no official master’s level graduate programs in genetic counseling or clinical genetics in China, and there is great variability in the duration and content of genetics curricula among medical schools and professional organizations.\n\nThe Chinese Ministry of Health has not yet recognized genetic counselors as an independent health care occupation. There are no official statistics for the number of health care professionals (e.g., physicians, nurses, and lab technicians) who are providing genetic counseling services in China.\n\nGenetic Counselling is a developing field in South Africa. Currently, there are about 20 registered genetic counsellors practicing in the country. In South Africa, genetic counsellors work within academic institutions, in the private health sector and more recently, private genetic laboratories. A few qualified genetic counsellors have been employed outside of the country or in other professions, owing to funding limitations that have impacted employment opportunities, particularly in the academic/public health sector.\n\nThe first Genetic Counselling Programme in South Africa started in 1989 at the University of the Witwatersrand in Johannesburg, in the Gauteng province. A second programme started in 2004 at the University of Cape Town in the Western Cape province. These are the only two programmes offering Masters level genetic counselling training in South Africa. Currently these courses are running at full capacity.  This is a two year degree and includes a research component. The majority of students enter the Masters programme with a science background but those with a psychology background are also be considered.\n\nThe Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) requires two years of internship. Often the first year forms part of the Masters degree in Genetic Counselling and a further 12 month internship thereafter. Genetic Counsellors are required by law to register with the HPCSA in order to practice as genetic counsellors. At the end of the training period, registrants submit a portfolio to HPCSA for assessment. If successful, the intern will be registered with the HPCSA and will be able to practice as a Genetic Counsellor in South Africa.\n\nThere is a professional organisation for Genetic Counsellors in South Africa, Genetic Counselling South Africa (GC-SA), which provides information and guidance to the HPCSA and others regarding professional issues. The GCSA is a focus group of the South African Society of Human Genetics (SASHG).\n\nThe majority of Genetic Counsellors in the UK work in the National Health Service (NHS) in one of the 33 Regional Clinical Genetics Services (some re-named Genomic Medicine Centres in England), Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland. Others work in specialist roles in the NHS, education, policy or research. A minority work in the private sector.\n\nThe Association of Genetic Nurses and Counsellors (AGNC) is the UK's professional organisation representing genetic counsellors, genetic nurses and non-medical, patient-facing staff working within the discipline of Clinical Genetics. There are currently (March 2018) 330 AGNC members within the UK. The AGNC is one of the constituent groups of the British Society for Genetic Medicine (BSGM).\n\nThe first 2 year MSc in Genetic Counselling program established in the UK was from the University of Manchester 1992, followed by Cardiff University in Wales in 2000. 2016 saw major changes in the way genetic counsellors are trained in England. A 3-year training programme funded by Health Education England, the Scientist Training Programme (STP) uses a combination of work-based training in Genomic Medicine Centres and a part time MSc in Genetics (Genomic Counselling) from the University of Manchester. Recruitment is performed nationally through the National School of Healthcare Science (NSHCS). A 3-year part time MSc in Genetic and Genomic Counselling is also now delivered by Cardiff University, through blended learning, with most of the teaching delivered online, alongside some short face-to-face teaching blocks in Wales. A 2-year MSc Genetic and Genomic Counselling program began at the University of Glasgow in Scotland in 2016. Prerequisites for acceptance on all the programmes include a degree in a relevant science or a nursing or midwifery qualification, and experience in a caring role.  All genetic counselling training programmes are accredited by the UK Genetic Counsellor Registration Board (GCRB) and the European Board of Medical Genetics (EBMG).\n\nGenetic counsellors in the UK are regulated through the Genetic Counsellor Registration Board (GCRB), although currently GCRB registration is voluntary. The GCRB registry was accredited in 2016 by the Professional Standards Authority under its Accredited Registers programme. Over 200 genetic counsellors are currently registered through the GCRB. Genetic Counsellors trained through the STP programme are expected to be eligible to apply for statutory regulation through the Health Care Professions Council and it is planned that soon there will be equivalence arrangements with the GCRB to ensure statutory regulation for GCRB registered genetic counsellors.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "362917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=362917", "title": "Hatfield–McCoy feud", "text": "Hatfield–McCoy feud\n\nThe Hatfield–McCoy feud or the Hatfield–McCoy war as some papers at the time called it, involved two rural families of the West Virginia–Kentucky area along the Tug Fork of the Big Sandy River in the years 1863–1891. The Hatfields of West Virginia were led by William Anderson \"Devil Anse\" Hatfield while the McCoys of Kentucky were under the leadership of Randolph \"Ole Ran'l\" McCoy. Those involved in the feud were descended from Ephraim Hatfield (born  1765) and William McCoy (born  1750). The feud has entered the American folklore lexicon as a metonym for any bitterly feuding rival parties. More than a century later, the feud has become synonymous with the perils of family honor, justice, and revenge.\n\nWilliam McCoy, the patriarch of the McCoys, was born in Ireland around 1750 and many of his ancestors hailed from Scotland. The family, led by grandson Randolph McCoy, lived mostly on the Kentucky side of Tug Fork (a tributary of the Big Sandy River). The Hatfields, led by William Anderson \"Devil Anse\" Hatfield, son of Ephraim and Nancy (Vance) Hatfield, lived mostly on the West Virginia side. The majority of the Hatfields, although living in Mingo County (then part of Logan County), West Virginia, fought on the Confederate side in the American Civil War; most McCoys, living in Pike County, Kentucky, also fought for the Confederates; with the exception of Asa Harmon McCoy, who fought for the Union. The first real violence in the feud was the death of Asa Harmon McCoy as he returned from the war, murdered by a group of Confederate Home Guards called the Logan Wildcats. Devil Anse Hatfield was a suspect at first, but was later confirmed to have been sick at home at the time of the murder. It was widely believed that his uncle, Jim Vance, a member of the Wildcats, committed the murder.\nThe Hatfields were more affluent than the McCoys and were well-connected politically. Devil Anse Hatfield's timbering operation was a source of wealth for his family, while the McCoys were more of a lower-middle-class family. Ole Ran'l owned a farm. Both families had also been involved in the manufacturing and selling of illegal moonshine.\n\nAsa Harmon McCoy joined the 45th Kentucky Infantry on October 20, 1863. According to his Compiled Service Records, he was \"captured by Rebels\" on December 5, 1863, and was released four months later to a Union hospital in Maryland. At the time of his capture, he was recovering from a gunshot wound to the chest. During the early months of the Civil War he joined a company of the Pike County Home Guards, under the command of Uriah Runyon, and it is thought he sustained the wound while serving in this unit. William Francis also led a company of Pike County Guards during 1862 and a group of his guards attacked and shot Mose Christian Cline, a friend of Devil Anse Hatfield. Although Cline survived his wounds, Anse Hatfield vowed to retaliate against the responsible parties. Some time in 1863, a group of Confederate Home Guards ambushed and killed William Francis as he was leaving his house, and Anse Hatfield took credit for the deed. Uriah Runyon later joined the 39th Kentucky Infantry and was killed on May 7, 1864, in Pike County, Kentucky. His Compiled Service Records say \"Killed by Rebels\". On muster rolls beginning on May 6, 1864, Asa Harmon McCoy is reported in a Lexington hospital, suffering from a leg fracture. Beginning in December 1864, the 45th Kentucky Infantry began mustering its regiments out of service. Asa Harmon's Company E was mustered out on December 24, 1864, in Ashland, Kentucky. He was killed near his home on January 7, 1865, just thirteen days after leaving the Union Army. A group of Confederate guerillas took credit for the killing and his wife's pension application states that he was \"killed by Rebels\". There are no existing records pertaining to his death and no warrants were issued in connection with the murder. McCoy family tradition points to James \"Jim\" Vance, an uncle of Anse Hatfield and a member of a West Virginia Militia group, as the culprit.\n\nThe second recorded instance of violence in the feud occurred thirteen years later, in 1878, after a dispute about the ownership of a hog: Floyd Hatfield, a cousin of Devil Anse's, had the hog, but Randolph McCoy claimed it was his, saying that the notches on the pig's ears were McCoy, not Hatfield, marks. The matter was taken to the local Justice of the Peace, Anderson \"Preacher Anse\" Hatfield, who ruled for the Hatfields by the testimony of Bill Staton, a relative of both families. In June 1880, Staton was killed by two McCoy brothers, Sam and Paris, who were later acquitted on the grounds of self-defense.\nThe feud escalated after Roseanna McCoy entered a relationship with Devil Anse Hatfield's son Johnson, known as \"Johnse\" (spelled \"Jonce\" in some sources), leaving her family to live with the Hatfields in West Virginia. Roseanna eventually returned to the McCoys, but when the couple tried to resume their relationship, Johnse Hatfield was arrested by the McCoys on outstanding Kentucky bootlegging warrants. He was freed from McCoy custody only when Roseanna made a desperate midnight ride to alert Devil Anse, who organized a rescue party. The Hatfield party surrounded the McCoys and took Johnse back to West Virginia before he could be transported the next day to the county seat in Pikeville, Kentucky. Despite what was seen as her betrayal of her own family on his behalf, Johnse Hatfield thereafter abandoned the pregnant Roseanna for her cousin, Nancy McCoy, whom he wed in 1881.\n\nThe feud continued in 1882 when Ellison Hatfield, brother of Devil Anse, was killed by three of Roseanna McCoy's younger brothers: Tolbert, Pharmer, and Bud. On an election day in Kentucky, the three McCoy brothers fought a drunken Ellison and his other brother; Ellison was stabbed 26 times and finished off with a gunshot. The McCoy brothers were initially arrested by Hatfield constables and were taken to Pikeville for trial. Secretly, Devil Anse Hatfield organized a large group of followers and intercepted the constables and their McCoy prisoners before they reached Pikeville. The brothers were taken by force to West Virginia, to await the fate of mortally wounded Ellison Hatfield and when Ellison died from his injuries, the McCoy brothers were killed by the Hatfields' vigilante justice in turn: being tied to pawpaw bushes, where each was shot numerous times with a total of 50 shots fired. Their bodies were described as \"bullet-riddled\".\n\nEven though the Hatfields and most inhabitants of the area believed their revenge was warranted, up to about twenty men, including Devil Anse, were indicted. All of the Hatfields eluded arrest; this angered the McCoy family, who took their cause up with Perry Cline. Cline was married to Martha McCoy. Historians believe that Cline used his political connections to reinstate the charges and announced rewards for the Hatfields' arrest as an act of revenge. A few years prior, Cline lost a lawsuit against Devil Anse over the deed to thousands of acres of land, subsequently increasing the hatred between the two families. In 1886, Jeff McCoy killed a mail carrier named Fred Wolford, and the man who went to pursue him for his crime was acting constable Cap Hatfield. Cap and a friend named Tom Wallace shot him while on the run on the banks of Tug River. Tom Wallace was soon found dead in the spring of 1887. The feud reached its peak during the 1888 New Year's Night Massacre. Cap Hatfield and Jim Vance led several members of the Hatfield clan to surround the McCoy cabin and opened fire on the sleeping family. The cabin was set on fire in an effort to drive Randolph McCoy into the open. He escaped by making a break for it, but two of his children were shot and his wife was beaten and almost killed. With his house burning, Randolph and his remaining family members were able to escape to the woods; his children, unprepared for the elements, suffered frostbite. The remaining McCoys moved to Pikeville to escape the West Virginia raiding parties.\n\nBetween 1880 and 1891, the feud claimed more than a dozen members of the two families. On one occasion, the governors of West Virginia and Kentucky even threatened to have their militias invade each other's states. In response, Kentucky Governor S. B. Buckner sent his Adjutant General Sam Hill to Pike County to investigate the situation. More than a dozen people died and at least 10 people were wounded. A few days after the New Year's Massacre, a posse led by Pike county deputy sheriff Frank Philipps rode out to track down Devil Anse's group across the border into West Virginia. The posse's first victim was Jim Vance, who was killed in the woods after he refused to be arrested. Philipps then made other successive raids on Hatfield homes and supporters and captured three before cornering the rest in Grapevine Creek on 19 January. Unfortunately for Philipps, Devil Anse and other Hatfields were waiting for them with an armed group of their own. A battle ensued between the two parties, and the Hatfields were eventually apprehended. Two Hatfield supporters were killed, and a deputy, Bill Dempsey, was executed by Frank Philipps after they surrendered. Wall Hatfield and eight others were arrested and brought to Kentucky to stand trial for the murder of Alifair McCoy (sometimes spelled Allaphare, Randolph's young daughter), killed during the New Year's Massacre.\n\nBecause of issues of due process and illegal extradition, the United States Supreme Court became involved (\"Mahon v. Justice\", 127 U.S. 700 (1888)). The Supreme Court ruled 7–2 in favor of Kentucky, holding that, even if a fugitive is returned from the asylum state illegally, instead of through lawful extradition procedure, no federal law prevents him from being tried. Eventually, the men were tried in Kentucky and all were found guilty. Seven received life imprisonment, while the eighth, Ellison \"Cottontop\" Mounts, was executed by hanging. Thousands attended the hanging in Pikeville.\n\nFighting between the families eased following the hanging of Mounts. Trials continued for years until the 1901 trial of Johnse Hatfield, the last of the feud trials.\n\nIn 1979, the families united for a special week's taping of the popular game show \"Family Feud\", in which they played for a cash prize and a pig which was kept on stage during the games. The McCoy family won the week-long series three games to two. While the Hatfield family won more money – $11,272 to the McCoys' $8,459—the decision was made to augment the McCoy family's winnings to $11,273.\n\nTourists travel to parts of West Virginia and Kentucky each year to see the areas and historic relics which remain from the days of the feud. In 1999, a large project known as the \"Hatfield and McCoy Historic Site Restoration\" was completed, funded by a federal grant from the Small Business Administration. Many improvements to various feud sites were completed. A committee of local historians spent months researching reams of information to find out about the factual history of the events surrounding the feud. This research was compiled in an audio compact disc, the \"Hatfield–McCoy Feud Driving Tour\", which is only available at the Pike County Tourism CVB Visitors Center in Pikeville, Kentucky. The CD is a self-guided driving tour of the restored feud sites and includes maps and pictures as well as the audio CD. The driving tour leads visitors to feud related points of interest including the gravesites of the feudists, the \"Hog Trial Cabin\", also known and Valentine Hatfield's cabin, Randolph McCoy's homeplace and well in Hardy, Kentucky, Aunt Betty's House and many more sites, some complete with historical markers. \n\nGreat-great-great grandsons of feud patriarch Randolph McCoy, Bo McCoy of Waycross, Georgia, and his cousin, Ron McCoy of Durham, North Carolina, organized a historic joint family reunion of the Hatfield and McCoy families in 2000. More than 5,000 people attended the reunion, which attained national attention.\n\nIn 2002, Bo and Ron McCoy brought a lawsuit to acquire access to the McCoy Cemetery which holds the graves of six family members, including five slain during the feud. The McCoys took on a private property owner, John Vance, who had restricted access to the cemetery.\n\nIn the 2000s, a all-terrain vehicle trail system, the Hatfield–McCoy Trails, was created around the theme of the feud.\n\nOn June 14, 2003, in Pikeville, Kentucky, the McCoy cousins partnered with Reo Hatfield of Waynesboro, Virginia, to declare an official truce between the families. Reo Hatfield said that he wanted to show that if the two families could reach an accord, others could also. He had said that he wanted to send a broader message to the world that when national security is at risk, Americans put their differences aside and stand united: \"We're not saying you don't have to fight because sometimes you do have to fight,\" he said. \"But you don't have to fight forever.\" Signed by more than sixty descendants during the fourth Hatfield–McCoy Festival, the truce was touted as a proclamation of peace, saying \"We ask by God's grace and love that we be forever remembered as those that bound together the hearts of two families to form a family of freedom in America.\" Governor Paul E. Patton of Kentucky and Governor Bob Wise of West Virginia signed proclamations declaring June 14 Hatfield and McCoy Reconciliation Day. Ron McCoy, one of the festival's founders, said it is unknown where the three signed proclamations will be exhibited. \"The Hatfields and McCoys symbolize violence and feuding and fighting, but by signing this, hopefully people will realize that's not the final chapter\", he said.\n\nIn 2011, the \"Hatfields and McCoys Dinner Show\", a musical comedy production, opened in the resort community of Pigeon Forge, Tennessee, near the entrance to the Great Smoky Mountains National Park.\n\nThe Hatfield and McCoy Reunion Festival and Marathon are held annually in June on a three-day weekend. The events take place in Pikeville, Kentucky, Matewan, West Virginia, and Williamson, West Virginia. The festival commemorates the famed feud and includes a marathon and half-marathon (the motto is \"no feudin', just runnin'\"), in addition to an ATV ride in all three towns. There is also a tug-of-war across the Tug Fork tributary near which the feuding families lived, a live re-enactment of scenes from their most famous fight, a motorcycle ride, live entertainment, Hatfield–McCoy landmark tours, a cornbread contest, pancake breakfast, arts, crafts, and dancing. Launched in 2000, the festival typically attracts thousands with more than 300 runners taking part in the races.\n\nIn August 2015 members of both families helped archeologists dig for ruins at a site where they believe Randolph McCoy's house was burned.\n\nIn 2016, the history podcast The Broadsides aired an episode going into detail about the conflict between the Hatfields and McCoys.\n\nIn September of 2018, a wooden statue, standing over 8 feet tall, was erected in honor of Randolph McCoy at the McCoy homeplace in Hardy, Kentucky. Carved by chainsaw carver Travis Williams and donated to the property, this statue was commissioned by McCoy property owner, and Hatfield descendant Bob Scott. The statue was unveiled during Hatfield McCoy Heritage Days in Pike County, Kentucky, an event that occurs every September, and involves the Hatfield and McCoy descendants returning to Pike County to celebrate the peace between the two families. This property, like many others, are open to tourists year-round. \n\nThe 1923 Buster Keaton comedy \"Our Hospitality\" centers on the \"Canfield–McKay feud,\" a thinly disguised fictional version of the Hatfield–McCoy feud.\n\nThe 1938 Merrie Melodies cartoon \"A Feud There Was\" depicts a feud between two backwoods families, called the Weavers and the McCoys. It features Egghead as a peace activist - going by the name Elmer Fudd (before he was a hunter) - trying to put an end to the two feuding hillbilly clans.\n\nThe 1939 Max Fleischer cartoon \"Musical Mountaineers\" has Betty Boop wander into the territory of the Peters family who are at war with the Hatfields.\n\nThe 1946 Disney cartoon short \"The Martins and the Coys\" in \"Make Mine Music\" animated feature was another very thinly disguised caricature of the Hatfield–McCoy feud.\n\nIn 1949, the Samuel Goldwyn feature film \"Roseanna McCoy\" told the story of the romance between the title character, played by Joan Evans, and Johnse Hatfield, played by Farley Granger.\n\nThe 1949 Screen Songs short \"Comin' Round the Mountain\" features another thinly disguised caricature of the Hatfield–McCoy feud, with cats (called \"Catfields\") and dogs (\"McHounds\") fighting each other, until a new school teacher arrives.\n\nIn 1950, Warner Bros. released a spoof of the Hatfield–McCoy feud titled \"Hillbilly Hare\", featuring Bugs Bunny interacting with members of the \"Martin family\", obviously a reference to a family in the other famous Kentucky feud, the Rowan County War who had been feuding with the \"Coy family\". When Bugs Bunny is asked, \"Be y'all a Martin or be y'all a Coy rabbit?\", Bugs answers, \"Well, my friends say I'm very coy!\" and laughs. The Martin brothers chase Bugs for the rest of the short and are outwitted by him at every turn.\n\nThe 1951 Abbott and Costello feature \"Comin' Round the Mountain\" features a feud between the Winfields and McCoys.\n\nThe 2007 movie \"\" portrays the feud between the Hatfields and McCoys, but the circumstances of the feud are different.\n\nIn 2012, Lionsgate Films released a direct-to-DVD film titled \"Hatfields & McCoys: Bad Blood\", starring Jeff Fahey, Perry King, and Christian Slater.\n\nMark Twain's classic novel The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn includes a bitter feud between two rival families, the Grangerfords and Sheperdsons. Many aspects of this feud emulate the Hatfield–McCoy feud (which was actively raging at the time of the book's publication; many readers believe that Twain's inclusion of this element was a satirical protest of both the H&M feud and of needless feuding and death in general), including one of the Grangerfords' daughters' eloping with a young male member of the Sheperdsons, causing the already-hotly-simmering feud to boil over into a frenzied gun-battle in which many lives are lost on both sides.\n\nThe Belgian comic book \"Les Rivaux de Painful Gulch\" from the series Lucky Luke by artist Morris and writer Rene Goscinny features two families named O'Hara's (with big ears) and O'Timmins (with big red noses). They are loosely inspired by the real-life Hatfield-McCoy.\n\nAnn Rinaldi authored a historical novel titled \"The Coffin Quilt\", based on a fictionalized account of the feud.\n\nManly Wade Wellman's short story \"Old Devlins Was A-Waitin'\" has the protagonist calling up the shade of \"Old Devlins\" to settle a conflict on behalf of one of the latter's descendants, although the story takes some liberties with history.\n\n\"The Flintstones\" featured a feud between the Hatrocks and the Flintstones in the episode \"The Flintstone Hillbillies\" (aired January 16, 1964), which was loosely based upon the Hatfield–McCoy feud.\n\nAn episode of the Scooby-Doo show “The Ozark Witch Switch” mentions the Hatfields and the McCoys, with the main villain in the episode being from the McCoy family “Witch McCoy” and her hatred for the Hatfields in the episode.\n\n\"The Andy Griffith Show\" also alluded to the rivalry in an episode called \"A Feud is a Feud\" (aired December 5, 1960), in which the feud is between the Wakefields and Carters.\n\nThe 1968 \"Merrie Melodies\" cartoon \"Feud with a Dude\" has the character Merlin the Magic Mouse trying to make peace with the two families, only to end up as the new target. This short has Hatfield claiming McCoy stole his hen, while McCoy claims Hatfield stole his pig.\n\nA 1975 television movie titled \"The Hatfields and the McCoys\" told a fictionalized version of the story. It starred Jack Palance as \"Devil Anse\" Hatfield and Steve Forrest as \"Randall\" McCoy.\n\nThe two feuding Virginia families in the 2007 made-for-TV film \"\" are called Hatfield and McCoy.\n\nThe second-season episode \"Vanished\" of \"NCIS\" takes place in a rural valley in Virginia, the two sides of which are feuding in a manner that Leroy Jethro Gibbs compares to the Hatfields and McCoys.\n\nThe eleventh episode of \"Bones\" season 7, entitled \"The Family in the Feud\", is about a long-running family feud that main character Seeley Booth likens to the Hatfield–McCoy feud.\n\nFrom May 28–30, 2012, U.S. television network The History Channel aired a three-part miniseries titled \"Hatfields & McCoys\", starring Kevin Costner as William Anderson \"Devil Anse\" Hatfield and co-starring Bill Paxton as Randolph \"Ole Ran'l\" McCoy, Tom Berenger as Jim Vance, and Powers Boothe as Judge Valentine \"Wall\" Hatfield. The miniseries set the record as the most-watched entertainment telecast in the history of advertising-supported basic cable.\n\nIn 2013, NBC commissioned a pilot for a television show updating the feud to present-day Pittsburgh with Rebecca De Mornay, Virginia Madsen, Sophia Bush, and James Remar but it was not picked up.\n\nOn August 1, 2013, the reality television series \"Hatfields & McCoys: White Lightning\" premiered on the History channel. The series begins with an investor offering to set up the feuding families into business making moonshine, and follows the families' attempt to run the business together.\n\nIn an episode of \"Modern Family\" originally aired January 15, 2014, titled \"Under Pressure,\" Cam is working as a gym teacher who has plans to let parents play dodgeball with each other at the school's open house, and wants to divide the two teams into Hatfields and McCoys. The school principal frowns upon this idea, however, Gloria and a competitive mother played by Jane Krakowski decide to settle their score with such a game. Hurriedly Cam proclaims Hatfields for one side and McCoys for the other.\n\nThe of \"\" featured an episode titled \"The Hooffields and McColts\", in which two clans have a longstanding feud over whether to use land for farming or construction. A similar theme was covered in Season 3, episode 9 of \"Littlest Pet Shop\", \"Feud for Thought\", in which two koalas are at odds with each other but don't know why, other than that their owners are in a feud.\n\nIn Bonanza The Gunmen (season 1, episode 19) Joe and Hoss were mistaken for two gunmen called Sladeboys that were hired by Mcfadden (McCoy) to take out the Hatfields in the small Texas town of Kiowa Flats.\n\nIn \"World of Warcraft\", the Alliance starting zone of Elwynn Forest features two feuding farmer families called the McClure and the Stonefield and a pig they are fighting over, a reference to the Hatfield–McCoy feud.\n\nIn the action RPG \"Borderlands 2\", the game features two rivaling families (clans), the Hodunks and Zafords, and many fans believe this is a reference to the Hatfield–McCoy feud. This idea is supported by the add-on \"Mad Moxxi and the Wedding Day Massacre\", in which a member of each clan is to be married, a likely reference to the marriage of Nancy McCoy and Johnson Hatfield.\n\n\"The Legend of Bad Jim\" is a song by the rock band Majungas, which is dedicated to Jim Vance and his influence in the Hatfield/McCoy rivalry.\n\nThe song \"Luckenbach, Texas (Back to the Basics of Love)\" written by Bobby Emmons and Chips Moman, sung by Waylon Jennings and Willie Nelson, makes mention of the Hatfield/McCoy feud.\n\nThe song 'A Summer Vacation' by Ice Cube mention the event and explains it as senseless violence in which lives are unnecessarily lost. While comparing to the events going on in his life by gang violence.\n\nThe song The Hatfield and the McCoy's was written and sung by Eddie Martin a Bristol-based musician and regular at the Famous Old Duke. It is track 8 on Pillowcase Blues\n\nIn 2018, Mountain Fever Records released a single from their album from Dave Adkins, \"Right Or Wrong\". The song, \"Blood Feud\", Written by Dave Adkins and Larry Cordle, is a retelling of the familiar story of the deadly discord between the Hatfield and McCoy families during the Civil War era.\n\nShaun and Marty McCoy of the West Virginia rock band Bobaflex are direct descendants of the McCoy family.\n\nIn the multiplayer FPS \"\"Team Fortress 2\" the core component of the story is that two rival brothers, Redmond Mann and Blutarch Mann, have been fighting for the properties granted to them by their father Zepheniah Mann for years, hiring different mercenaries to carry out the operations. This is similar to a family feud with the exception that it takes place in a single family.\n\nThe third chapter of “Red Dead Redemption 2” features two feuding Southern families called the Grays and Braithwaites. Both families task the player character in carrying out attacks on one another. This plotline also features a forbidden romance reminiscent of Johnse Hatfield and Roseanne McCoy.\n\nNames in red indicate those who were killed as a direct result of the feud.Names in orange highlight intermarriages between Hatfield and McCoy.Numbers in green square brackets [ ] are cross references to the timeline in the \"Deaths\" section above\n\nNames in red indicate those who were killed as a direct result of the feud.Names in orange highlight intermarriages between Hatfield and McCoy.Numbers in green square brackets [ ] are cross-references to the timeline in the \"Deaths\" section above.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2643879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2643879", "title": "Helen LaKelly Hunt", "text": "Helen LaKelly Hunt\n\nHelen LaKelly Hunt (born 1949) is a daughter of H. L. Hunt. She grew up in Dallas, Texas, where she graduated from the Hockaday School and Southern Methodist University. She also has a master's degree in clinical psychology and a Ph.D. in church history.\n\nShe is founder and president of The Sister Fund, which describes itself as \"a private women's fund dedicated to the social, political, economic, and spiritual empowerment of women and girls.\"\n\nHunt lives in Dallas, Texas with her husband, Harville Hendrix, a self-help author.\n\nHunt was inducted into the National Women's Hall of Fame, which cited her as a \"[c]reative philanthropist who has used her own resources and others to create women's funding institutions.\"\n\nHelen LaKelly Hunt along with her husband developed Imago Relationship Therapy. Their son, Hunter Hunt-Hendrix, is the vocalist of the American black metal band Liturgy and their daughter, Leah Hunt-Hendrix, is an Occupy movement activist.\n\nCurrent board member at The New York Women's Foundation.\n\nHunt has written several books on feminism, including \"Faith and Feminism: A Holy Alliance\" and \"And The Spirit Moved Them: The Lost Radical History of America's First Feminists.\"\n\nShe was also a contributor to the book \"Becoming Myself: Reflections on Growing Up Female.\" \n\nHunt has co-authored multiple books with her husband, including: \n\n"}
{"id": "38613869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38613869", "title": "Henry Chakava", "text": "Henry Chakava\n\nHenry Chakava (born 26 April 1946) is a Kenyan publisher. He has focused on the publication of books particularly in East Africa and has been called \"the father of Kenyan publishing\". For his contribution to educational and cultural literature in his region, he has received several awards.\n\nHenry Miyinzi Chakava was born in Vokoli, Vihiga District. He began his career after completing his study in literature and philosophy in 1972. First he was editor and subsequently chief editor in Nairobi of the international publishing house Heinemann Educational Books, where he was involved in the publication and promotion of high-profile African writers including Ali Mazrui, Chinua Achebe, Marjorie Oludhe Macgoye, Meja Mwangi, Ngũgĩ wa Thiong'o and Okot p'Bitek.\n\nIn 1992 Chakava took over the Kenyan establishment and went further under the name East African Educational Publishers. Later, he expanded his business with establishments in Uganda and Tanzania.\n\nHe published a great number of educational and cultural books that have had a major importance in eastern Africa. For instance, he published the school books for primary and tertiary education that signified an important renewal in view of the subjects that were written from an African perspective. Previously, school books had been influenced greatly by a Western viewpoint.\n\nAlso in the cultural field, Chakava came with innovating publications. Besides books in the English language, he published in local languages, at a time when local languages were still seen by governments and authorities as state subversive. Furthermore he published books with a critic stance on local governments. Challenging the boundaries of the freedom of expression, he took great risks and in fact, was repeatedly threatened.\n\nMoreover, he took the lead over the African Publishing Institute, and maintained contacts with important publishers in Oxford, England, such as the African Books Collective and Bellagio Publishing Network. Henry Chakava is also a visiting lecturer at the Oxford Brookes University.\n\nHe is the author of the 1996 book \"Publishing in Africa: One Man's Perspective\", for which Chinua Achebe wrote a brief introduction.\n\nTo celebrate Henry Chakava's 70th birthday, a number of key personalities in the publishing world have authored a book, Coming of Age: Strides in African Publishing, published by East African Educational Publishers Ltd, Nairobi Kenya. The new release, published in April 2016, is a collection of essays in honour of Dr Henry Chakava @70. \n\nChakava received several awards. Here follows a selection:\n\n"}
{"id": "8150189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8150189", "title": "Herbert Fisk Johnson Sr.", "text": "Herbert Fisk Johnson Sr.\n\nHerbert Fisk Johnson Sr. (May 27, 1868 – February 14, 1928) was an American businessman. He was the son of company founder Samuel Curtis Johnson Sr.. He was the second generation of his family to lead S. C. Johnson & Son, Inc., of Racine, Wisconsin, United States.\n\nBorn near Elyria, Ohio, Johnson moved to Elkhorn, Wisconsin with his family. He then moved to Racine, Wisconsin.\n\nWhen he became partner in 1906, Johnson's Prepared Paste Wax Company was renamed S. C. Johnson & Son.\n\nHe died in 1928, without leaving a will, and after a long legal battle, his estate was split equally between his two children, Herbert Fisk Johnson Jr. and Henrietta Johnson Louis. Herbert was the third generation to lead the company.\n"}
{"id": "24934400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24934400", "title": "Human Capital Supply Chain", "text": "Human Capital Supply Chain\n\nHuman Capital Supply Chain is a book by Tim Giehl and Sara Moss.\n\n\"Human capital supply chain\" refers to the integration of business planning, strategic workforce planning, staffing and recruiting processes and technology to enhance corporate productivity and profitability. Employing methods of common manufacturing and distribution supply chain management principles to human resources and human capital, corporations create an end-to-end, human capital supply chain.\n\nThe term was introduced in the 2009 book, \"Human Capital Supply Chains\". The concept consolidates 30 years of expertise by companies like Toyota, Wal-Mart, and Dell in total quality management, lean and strategic supplier relationships, and applies it to the human resources industry. The major aim when implementing a human capital supply chain is to reduce labor costs. While that is attained in the short-term, the long-term tuning of the supply chain can result in growth and strategic competitive advantage.\n"}
{"id": "4091412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4091412", "title": "ISPANZ", "text": "ISPANZ\n\nThe Internet Service Providers Association of New Zealand (ISPANZ) is an organisation formed by Internet service providers (ISPs) in New Zealand. Its members include most New Zealand ISPs with the exceptions of Xtra, TelstraClear and Vodafone.\n\nIts objectives are:\n\nISPANZ is led by a board of directors.\n\nAs of June 2012, the board consists of:\n\n\nThe current members as of June 2012 are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55645318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55645318", "title": "Ian Duncan (businessman)", "text": "Ian Duncan (businessman)\n\nDr Ian Duncan is a businessman active in the Australian resources sector. He is a past president of operations at the Olympic Dam mine in South Australia under Western Mining Corporation. He was Chairman of the London-based Uranium Institute (now the World Nuclear Association) in 1995-1996. From the 1990s to the present, Duncan has advocated for nuclear industrial development in Australia, specifically the development of facilities to store and dispose of nuclear waste and the legalization and development of nuclear power plants for the generation of electricity. He is a Fellow of the Australian Academy of Technology, Science and Engineering (ATSE), the Australasian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy (AusIMM), and Engineers Australia.\n\nDuncan joined Western Mining Corporation (WMC Resources) in 1971 and remained with the company for 27 years. He commenced as operations manager of the company's exploration division, and rose to General Manager of the Olympic Dam mine. \n\nDuring the 2000s and 2010s, Duncan advocated for the development of nuclear power in Australia. \n\nIn 2005, Duncan described the status of breeder reactors as seeing \"little advancement\". He told the ABC that \"There is abundant uranium to meet all future requirements for light water reactors that are planned around the world.\" That year he also became a non-executive director of Perth-based company, Energy Ventures Ltd. As of 2017, the company owns various uranium and energy exploration and development projects in Australia and internationally. The most advanced of these is the Aurora Uranium project in Oregon, USA.\n\nIn 2006, Duncan described opponents of nuclear power as often using the subject of nuclear waste as a \"tool\". He argued that \"due to global progress and example, the disposal of nuclear waste need not be a showstopper for nuclear power in Australia.\" \n\nIn 2009, Duncan told \"The Age\" that he thought it was \"time to seriously think about nuclear power as part of the baseload electricity generation. It's time that we moved along from the caveman attitude of just picking up and burning things. We should move to a higher order of source of energy.\" He also referred to nuclear power as clean electricity with virtually no greenhouse gas emissions. He estimated that Australia's first nuclear power station could cost $6-8 billion and take ten years to design, build and commission.\n\nIn April 2010, Duncan spoke at an event in Western Australia hosted by CEDA entitled \"Assessing the Prospects of Nuclear Power in Australia\". Michael Angwin of the Australian Uranium Association and Daniela Stehlik of the National Academies Forum also spoke at the event.\n\nIn September 2010, Duncan told an Australian Institute of Energy Syposium held by the Perth Branch that he predicted that Australia's first nuclear reactors would be light-water reactors with a 600–1200 MWe capacity each, built in pairs, with sea water cooled condensers. They would be fueled with enriched uranium and spent nuclear fuel would ultimately be disposed of into ancient and stable underground rock storage facilities.\n\nFollowing the 2011 Fukushima nuclear disaster, Duncan remained optimistic about the prospect of nuclear power in Australia.\n\nIn 2013, he wrote that \"if the economics for electricity generation is impacted by a carbon tax or a compulsory carbon capture and sequestration, then nuclear generation will be economically competitive.\" \n\nAt a conference entitled \"Nuclear Power for Australia?\" held by ATSE in July of that year, he argued that if Australia were to aspire to produce electricity with nuclear power plants, a new Commonwealth agency 'inspectorate' with regulatory control over the choice of technology, siting, construction and operation should be established by 2016. He proposed the working title Nuclear Installations Regulator for Australia (NIRA) and presented a detailed timeline of potential milestones to achieve between 2013 and criticality for the first reactor in 2030. His presentation flagged \"Restart nuclear debate\" as a first step, during the period 2014-2017. \n\nIn 2015, a Nuclear Fuel Cycle Royal Commission commenced in South Australia tasked with investigating the opportunities and risks associated with South Australia's future role in the nuclear fuel cycle. Duncan's submission to the Royal Commission identified areas of the state's coastline he believed were potentially suitable for the siting of nuclear power plants. \n\nDuncan was a Member of the SYNROC Steering Committee (whose work was based on research and development undertaken by ANSTO and the ANU). \n\nIn 2002, after his retirement, Duncan completed a doctorate at Oxford University considering the \"interface between society and the disposal of radioactive waste\". His publication was entitled \"Radioactive Waste: Risk, Reward, Space and Time Dynamics\" and he followed it with opinion pieces and media commentary on the subject during the early 2000s. In 2003 he anticipated that \"by far the biggest advancement will come from a better understanding of the public psyche by industry and not by a better understanding of the industry by the public.\"\n\nIn 2003, he made the claim that \"the Premier that supports the siting of a national repository will probably be remembered as the statesman who cleaned up Australia!\"\n\nIn the mid-2000s Duncan was actively consulting in the area, and was consulted during the Uranium Mining, Processing and Nuclear Energy Review (UMPNER) in 2006.\n\nIn 2006, Duncan maintained the view that Australia had an obligation to appropriately manage its own, domestically produced nuclear waste. In an article published in \"Focus\", the magazine of ATSE, he wrote:\"There is no justification for the importation of other countries’ radioactive waste, nor for participation in any so called ‘international attempts’ at nuclear waste disposal. Our moral obligation is to properly dispose of our own waste and that is achievable.\"In 2015 Duncan was appointed to the Independent Advisory Panel of the National Radioactive Waste Management Project for the Australian Government. \n\nIn September 2016, Duncan gave a presentation on the work of the Royal Commission and the National Radioactive Waste Management Project to members of the Minerals, Processing and Extractive Metallurgy Division of the Institute of Materials, Minerals and Mining. During his talk he mentioned that 40 years had transpired since the Flower's Report was published in the UK, which prompted environmental consideration of the fate of nuclear wastes and their future management.\n"}
{"id": "1068799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1068799", "title": "Incident Command System", "text": "Incident Command System\n\nThe Incident Command System (ICS) is a standardized approach to the command, control, and coordination of emergency response providing a common hierarchy within which responders from multiple agencies can be effective.\n\nICS was initially developed to address problems of inter-agency responses to wildfires in California and Arizona but is now a component of the National Incident Management System (NIMS) in the US, where it has evolved into use in All-Hazards situations, ranging from active shootings to HazMat scenes. In addition, ICS has acted as a pattern for similar approaches internationally.\n\nICS consists of a standard management hierarchy and procedures for \nmanaging temporary incident(s) of any size. ICS procedures should be pre-established and sanctioned by participating authorities, and personnel should be well-trained prior to an incident.\n\nICS includes procedures to select and form temporary management hierarchies\nto control funds, personnel, facilities, equipment, and communications.\nPersonnel are assigned according to established standards and procedures previously sanctioned by participating authorities.\nICS is a system designed to be used or applied from the time an incident occurs until the requirement for management and operations no longer exist.\n\nICS is interdisciplinary and organizationally flexible to meet the following management challenges:\n\nThe ICS concept was formed in 1968 at a meeting of Fire Chiefs in Phoenix, Arizona. The program was built primarily to take after the management hierarchy of the US Navy and it was mainly for fire fighting of wildfires in California and Arizona. During the 1970s, ICS was fully developed during massive wildfire suppression efforts in California (FIRESCOPE) that followed a series of catastrophic wildfires, starting with the massive Laguna fire in 1970. Property damage ran into the millions, and many people died or were injured. Studies determined that response problems often related to communication and management deficiencies rather than lack of resources or failure of tactics.\n\nWeaknesses in incident management were often due to:\n\nEmergency Managers determined that the existing management structures — frequently unique to each agency — did not scale to dealing with massive mutual aid responses involving dozens of distinct agencies and when these various agencies worked together their specific training and procedures clashed. As a result, a new command and control paradigm was collaboratively developed to provide a consistent, integrated framework for the management of all incidents from small incidents to large, multi-agency emergencies.\n\nIt should be noted that at the beginning of this work, despite the recognition that there were incident or field level shortfalls in organization and terminology, there was no mention of the need to develop an on the ground incident management system like ICS. Most of the efforts were focused on the multiagency coordination challenges above the incident or field level. It wasn’t until 1972 when Firefighting Resources of Southern California Organized for Potential Emergencies (FIRESCOPE) was formed that this need was recognized and the concept of ICS was first discussed. Also, ICS was originally called Field Command Operations System.\n\nICS became a national model for command structures at a fire, crime scene or major incident. ICS was used in New York at the first attack on the World Trade Center in 1993. On 1 March 2004, the Department of Homeland Security, in accordance with the passage of Homeland Security Presidential Directive 5 (HSPD-5) calling for a standardized approach to incident management amongst all federal, state, and local agencies, developed the National Incident Management System (NIMS) which integrates ICS. Additionally, it was mandated that NIMS (and thus ICS) must be utilized to manage emergencies in order to receive federal funding.\n\nThe Superfund Amendment and Re-authorization Act title III mandated that all first responders to a hazardous materials emergency must be properly trained and equipped in accordance with 29 CFR 1910.120(q). This standard represents OSHA's recognition of ICS.\n\nHSPD-5 and thus the National Incident Management System came about as a direct result of the terrorist attacks on 11 September 2001, which created numerous All-Hazard, Mass Casualty, multi-agency incidents.\n\nIn the United States, ICS has been tested by more than 30 years of emergency and non-emergency applications. All levels of government are required to maintain differing levels of ICS training and private sector organizations regularly use ICS for management of events. ICS is widespread in use from law enforcement to every-day business, as the basic goals of clear communication, accountability, and the efficient use of resources are common to incident and emergency management as well as daily operations. ICS is mandated by law for all Hazardous Materials responses nationally and for many other emergency operations in most states. In practice, virtually all EMS and disaster response agencies utilize ICS, in part after the United States Department of Homeland Security mandated the use of ICS for emergency services throughout the United States as a condition for federal preparedness funding. As part of FEMA's National Response Plan (NRP), the system was expanded and integrated into the National Incident Management System (NIMS).\n\nICS is widely used in the United Kingdom and the United Nations recommended the use of ICS as an international standard. ICS is also used by agencies in Canada.\n\nNew Zealand has implemented a similar system, known as the Coordinated Incident Management System, Australia has the Australasian Inter-Service Incident Management System and British Columbia, Canada, has BCERMS developed by the [[Emergency Management BC].\n\nIn [[Brazil]], ICS is also used by [[The Fire Department of the State of Rio de Janeiro]] (CBMERJ) and by the Civil Defense of the State of Rio de Janeiro in every emergency or large-scale events.\n\nIncidents are defined within ICS as unplanned situations necessitating a response. Examples of incidents may include:\n\nEvents are defined within ICS as planned situations. Incident command is increasingly applied to events both in emergency management and non-emergency management settings. Examples of events may include:\n\nEach individual participating in the operation reports to only one supervisor. This eliminates the potential for individuals to receive conflicting orders from a variety of supervisors, thus increasing accountability, preventing freelancing, improving the flow of information, helping with the coordination of operational efforts, and enhancing operational safety. This concept is fundamental to the ICS chain of command structure.\n\nIndividual response agencies previously developed their protocols separately, and subsequently developed their terminology separately. This can lead to confusion as a word may have a different meaning for each organization.\n\nWhen different organizations are required to work together, the use of common [[terminology]] is an essential element in team cohesion and communications, both internally and with other organizations responding to the incident.\n\nAn incident command system promotes the use of a common terminology and has an associated glossary of terms that help bring consistency to position titles, the description of resources and how they can be organized, the type and names of incident facilities, and a host of other subjects. The use of common terminology is most evident in the titles of command roles, such as \"Incident Commander\", \"Safety Officer\" or \"Operations Section Chief\".\n\nIncidents are managed by aiming towards specific objectives. Objectives are ranked by priority; should be as specific as possible; must be attainable; and if possible given a working time-frame. Objectives are accomplished by first outlining strategies (general plans of action), then determining appropriate tactics (how the strategy will be executed) for the chosen strategy.\n\nIncident Command structure is organized in such a way as to expand and contract as needed by the incident scope, resources and hazards. Command is established in a top-down fashion, with the most important and authoritative positions established first. For example, Incident Command is established by the first arriving unit.\n\nOnly positions that are required at the time should be established. In most cases, very few positions within the command structure will need to be activated. For example, a single fire truck at a [[dumpster]] fire will have the officer filling the role of IC, with no other roles required. As more trucks get added to a larger incident, more roles will be delegated to other officers and the Incident Commander (IC) role will probably be handed to a more-senior officer.\n\nOnly in the largest and most complex operations would the full ICS organization be staffed. Conversely, as an incident scales down, roles will be merged back up the tree until there is just the IC role remaining.\n\nTo limit the number of responsibilities and resources being managed by any individual, the ICS requires that any single person's [[span of control]] should be between three and seven individuals, with five being ideal. In other words, one manager should have no more than seven people working under them at any given time. If more than seven resources are being managed by an individual, then they are being overloaded and the command structure needs to be expanded by delegating responsibilities (e.g. by defining new sections, divisions, or task forces). If fewer than three, then the position's authority can probably be absorbed by the next highest rung in the chain of command.\n\nOne of the benefits of the ICS is that it allows a way to coordinate a set of organizations who may otherwise work together sporadically. While much training material emphasizes the hierarchical aspects of the ICS, it can also be seen as an inter-organizational network of responders. These network qualities allow the ICS flexibility and expertise of a range of organizations. But the network aspects of the ICS also create management challenges. One study of ICS after-action reports found that ICS tended to enjoy higher coordination when there was strong pre-existing trust and working relationships between members, but struggled when authority of the ICS was contested and when the networks of responders was highly diverse. Coordination on any incident or event is facilitated with the implementation of the following concepts:\n\n\"Incident Action Plans\" (IAPs) ensure that everyone is working in concert toward the same goals set for that operational period by providing all incident supervisory personnel with direction for actions to be taken during the operational period identified in the plan. Incident Action Plans provide a coherent means of communicating the overall incident objectives for both operational and support activities. They include measurable strategic objectives to be achieved in a time frame called an Operational Period, which may be any interval of time but is commonly 12 hours. They may be verbal or written except for hazardous material incidents where it must be written, and are prepared by the Planning Section.\n\nThe consolidated IAP is a very important component of the ICS that reduces freelancing and ensures a coordinated response. At the simplest level, all Incident Action Plans must have four elements:\n\nThe content of the IAP is organized by a number of standardized ICS forms that allow for accurate and precise documentation of an incident.\n\n\nICS-202 (EMSI, Inc.)\n\nICS Forms in Spanish\n\nUS Coast Guard ICS Forms\n\n\"Comprehensive resource management\" is a key management principle that implies that all assets and personnel during an event need to be tracked and accounted for. It can also include processes for reimbursement for resources, as appropriate.\nResource management includes processes for:\n\nComprehensive resource management ensures that visibility is maintained over all resources so they can be moved quickly to support the preparation and response to an incident, and ensuring a graceful demobilization. It also applies to the classification of resources by type and kind, and the categorization of resources by their status.\n\nT-Cards ([[ICS 219]], Resource Status Card) are most commonly used to track these resources. The cards are placed in T-Card racks located at an Incident Command Post for easy updating and visual tracking of resource status.\n\nDeveloping an integrated voice and data communications system, including equipment, systems, and protocols, must occur prior to an incident.\n\nEffective ICS communications include three elements:\n\n\n\n\n\nAt the ICS 200 level, the function of Information and Intelligence is added to the standard ICS staff as an option. This role is unique in ICS as it can be arranged in multiple ways based on the judgement of the Incident Commander and needs of the incident. The three possible arrangements are:\n\nAt the ICS 300 level, the focus is on entry-level management of small-scale, All-Hazards incidents with emphasis on the scalability of ICS. It acts as an introduction to the utilization of more than one agency and the possibility of numerous operational periods. It also involves an introduction to the Emergency Operations Center.\n\nAt the ICS 400 level, the focus is on large, complex incidents. Topics covered include the characteristics of incident complexity, the approaches to dividing an incident into manageable components, the establishment of an \"Area Command\", and the MultiAgency Coordination System (MACS).\n\nICS is organized by levels, with the supervisor of each level holding a unique title (e.g. only a person in charge of a Section is labeled \"Chief\"; a \"Director\" is exclusively the person in charge of a Branch). Levels (supervising person's title) are:\n\nICS uses a standard set of facility nomenclature. ICS facilities include:\nPre-Designated Incident Facilities: Response operations can form a complex structure that must be held together by response personnel working at different and often widely separate incident facilities. These facilities can include:\n\n\nEach facility has unique location, space, equipment, materials, and supplies requirements that are often difficult to address, particularly at the outset of response operations. For this reason, responders should identify, pre-designate and pre-plan the layout of these facilities, whenever possible.\n\nOn large or multi-level incidents, higher-level support facilities may be activated. These could include:\n\n\nICS uses a standard set of equipment nomenclature. ICS equipment include:\n\nThe \"type\" of resource describes the size or capability of a resource. For instance, a 50 kW (for a generator) or a 3-ton (for a truck). Types are designed to be categorized as \"Type 1\" through \"Type 5\" formally, but in live incidents more specific information may be used.\n\nThe \"kind\" of resource describes what the resource is. For instance, generator or a truck. The \"type\" of resource describes a performance capability for a kind of resource for instance,\n\nIn both type and kind, the objective must be included in the resource request. This is done to widen the potential resource response. As an example, a resource request for a \"small aircraft for aerial reconnaissance of a search and rescue scene\" may be satisfied by a [[National Guard of the United States|National Guard]] [[OH-58 Kiowa]] helicopter (Type & Kind: Rotary-wing aircraft, Type II/III) or by a [[Civil Air Patrol]] [[Cessna 182]] (Type & Kind: Fixed-wing aircraft, Type I). In this example, requesting only a fixed-wing or a rotary-wing, or requesting by type may prevent the other resource's availability from being known.\n\nA role of responsibility can be transferred during an incident for several reasons: As the incident grows a more qualified person is required to take over as Incident Commander to handle the ever-growing needs of the incident, or in reverse where as an incident reduces in size command can be passed down to a less qualified person (but still qualified to run the now-smaller incident) to free up highly qualified resources for other tasks or incidents. Other reasons to transfer command include jurisdictional change if the incident moves locations or area of responsibility, or normal turnover of personnel due to extended incidents. The transfer of command process always includes a transfer of command briefing, which may be oral, written, or a combination of both.\n\n\n\n[[Category:Incident management]]\n[[Category:Disaster preparedness in the United States]]\n[[Category:Firefighting in the United States]]\n[[Category:Management systems]]"}
{"id": "44802973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44802973", "title": "Jack Hazlett", "text": "Jack Hazlett\n\nEdward John \"Jack\" Hazlett (21 July 1938 – 16 December 2014) was a New Zealand rugby union player. A prop, Hazlett represented Southland at a provincial level, and was a member of the New Zealand national side, the All Blacks, in 1966 and 1967. He played 12 matches for the All Blacks including six internationals.\n\nHazlett went on to establish Slinkskins Ltd, a Southland-based tanning company, in 1968, and in the 1996 Queen's Birthday Honours he was appointed a Member of the New Zealand Order of Merit for services to export.\n"}
{"id": "20186915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20186915", "title": "James Franklin (printer)", "text": "James Franklin (printer)\n\nJames Franklin (February 4, 1697 in Boston – February 4, 1735 in Newport, Rhode Island) was an American colonial author, printer, newspaper publisher, and almanac publisher. James published the \"New England Courant\", one of the oldest and the first truly independent American newspapers.\n\nJames was an older brother of Benjamin Franklin and the son of Josiah Franklin, a chandler and businessman from Ecton, Northamptonshire, England, and Abiah Folger Franklin, who came from a family of Nantucket Puritans. In addition to James, their children included: John (1690–1756), Peter (1692–1766), Mary (1694–ca. 1730), Sarah (1699–1731), Ebenezer (1701–1702), Thomas (1703–1706), Benjamin (1706–1790), Lydia (1708–1758), and Jane (1712–1795). James had seven other siblings from his father's earlier marriage.\n\nIn 1717, James returned to Boston from England with a Ramage press and a small quantity of type letters to start in the printing trade, and younger brother, Benjamin, became indentured to him. James married Ann Smith, who came from a Puritan family, in 1723, on his 26th birthday. The ceremony, in Boston, was performed by the Rev. John Webb of the New North Church.\n\nJames began publishing the \"Courant\" in Boston in 1721 with wife, Ann, and brother, Benjamin, working alongside him. While at the \"Courant\", James gathered a group, referred to by some as \"The Hell-Fire Club\", for assistance, and introduced \"yellow journalism\" to Boston. The \"Courant\" was considered controversial, and James was imprisoned for four weeks in 1722 for writing \"scandalous libel\". The paper was suppressed in 1727 and they left Boston in the same year.\n\nAt the invitation of James's brother, John, a tallow chandler, James and Ann moved to Newport. Here, they had five children, including Mary, Elizabeth, and James Jr. Here, too, James and Ann established the colony's first printing press.\n\nStarting in 1727, James printed and published eight editions of the \"Rhode-Island Almanack\", sometimes under the pseudonym \"Poor Robin\". They were printed in James' shop near the town schoolhouse, or at his printing-house on Tillinghast's Wharf, near the Union-Flag Tavern. With the assistance of Thomas Fleet, the almanacs were sold as far away as Pudding-Lane in Boston.\n\nOn September 27, 1732, James published the first issue of the \"Rhode Island Gazette\", by in size. Its run lasted only until May 24, 1733, and its issues were irregular.\n\nJames was ill while living in Newport, but before his death, his brother Benjamin Franklin came for a visit. When Benjamin left for Philadelphia, he had with him his nephew, James Jr., and provided him with a printing apprenticeship thereafter. After a long illness, James died in Newport in 1735, on his 38th birthday and 12th wedding anniversary. James Franklin was buried in the Newport Common Burying Ground and Island Cemetery. He was survived by Ann, leaving her with four young children to support alone, one child having preceded James in death.\n\nAnn Smith Franklin continued to operate the printing business until her death in 1763, publishing under the imprint of \"The Widow Franklin\", and producing books, almanacs, pamphlets, and legal announcements.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43307232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43307232", "title": "Jan Henric Buettner", "text": "Jan Henric Buettner\n\nJan Henric Buettner (born 1964) is a German entrepreneur.\n\nBorn in Hamburg, Buettner studied business management there and did an internship at a precursor of Vodafone, then started his career as a trainee at Axel Springer AG, where he worked on interactive media. In 1995 he developed AOL Europe with Andreas von Blottnitz. He became head of AOL Germany, then in 1997 moved to the US, where he established a venture capital firm specialising in internet companies, BV Capital, as general partner for Bertelsmann. In 2003 he and Blottnitz were awarded €203 million in damages by a California court for Bertelsmann's failure to pay them part of the proceeds from the sale of its share in AOL Europe; the amount was reduced to €160 million in an out-of-court agreement.\n\nIn 2005 he bought a historic estate by the Baltic Sea for €7 million, and converted the estate buildings and village into Grand Village Weissenhaus, a privately operated luxury resort which opened in 2014. Some of the funding for the renovation and conversion was raised on the crowdfunding site Companisto.de, where it drew more investment than any other for-profit European organisation to that date.\n\nBuettner lives in Hamburg; his former wife and children continue to live in Santa Barbara, California.\n\n"}
{"id": "21230712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21230712", "title": "Jean Soupert", "text": "Jean Soupert\n\nJean Soupert (1834–1906) was a Luxembourg-born floriculturist, who specialized in breeding rose cultivars.\n\nIn 1855, with a friend, Pierre Notting, he established the \"Soupert & Notting\" company specializing in growing roses in Limpertsberg. In 1857, Soupert married Anne Marie Notting, Pierre Notting’s sister. During the next years, and as from 1861, “Soupert & Notting” obtained medals at international competitions in France, Belgium, Germany, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and the United States of America.\n\nIn 1874, Jean Pernet, père from Lyon dedicated them a moss rose: “Soupert & Notting”. Jean Soupert died in Luxembourg in 1906.\n\nAfter his death, his three sons, Jean-Pierre, Pierre-Alphonse and Jean-Constant Soupert took over the rosarium.\n\n"}
{"id": "36128738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36128738", "title": "Kai Johan Jiang", "text": "Kai Johan Jiang\n\nKai Johan Jiang (born 1965) is a Swedish-Chinese businessman and company operator with business interests in Sweden and China. In 2004, Jiang founded State Power (Dragon Power Company), a Chinese energy company active in the sustainable energy sources, mainly biomass. He is the CEO of State Power Group.\n\nJiang is CEO of National Electric Vehicle Sweden AB (NEVS), formed in 2012 with the intention to acquire the main assets of Saab Automobile AB from the bankruptcy estate. The acquisition was finalized on August 31, 2012. NEVS is wholly owned by National Modern Energy Holdings Ltd., parent company of State Power Group.\n\nAmong Jiang's other business interests in Swedish industry is NBE Sweden AB, a company that plans to build an energy combine in Sveg in Härjedalen. His plans include a 150 MW cogeneration plant fueled by biomass and an ethanol plant with annual output of up to 80,000 tonnes.\n\nJiang is an economic adviser to the government of Shandong province of China. \nJiang worked for ICBC and served as senior advisor to the Volvo Group from 1993 to 2000. In 2008 he was awarded the prize \"Emerging Entrepreneur Of The Year\" by Ernst & Young in China.\n"}
{"id": "26654790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26654790", "title": "Klassa", "text": "Klassa\n\nKlassa (, meaning \"Class\" in English) was a Bulgarian newspaper, which published content from the \"Financial Times\". The paper was first published on 3 September 2007. Its publisher was Klassa Bulgaria EAD. \n\nWith a circulation of more than 10,000 copies, its subscribers were mainly legal or economic institutions and members of the business community. In 2009, the paper launched a bilingual website. Neda Popova served as the editor-in-chief of the paper, which went online in 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "3959983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3959983", "title": "Leon P. Alford", "text": "Leon P. Alford\n\nLeon Pratt Alford (Jan. 3, 1877 – Feb. 2, 1942) was an American mechanical engineer, organizational theorist, and administrator for the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. known for his seminal work in the field of industrial management.\n\nBorn in Simsbury, Connecticut, Alford graduated from the High School of Plainville, Connecticut, and in 1896 from the Worcester Polytechnic Institute. After ten years in the industry in various functions, he received his ME from Worcester Polytechnic Institute in 1905.\n\nIn 1896 Alford started as shop foreman at the McKay Metallic Fastening Assn. in Boston, which merged to McKay-Bigelow Heeling Assn. in 1897. After another two years as shop foreman, he found employ as production superintendent at the United Shoe Machinery Company in 1899 in Boston. The United Shoe Machinery Company, formed in 1899 out of the merger of three shoe machinery companies, developed revolutionary new shoemaking equipment, which revolutionized the shoe industry. The company employed 9,000 workers and in its best days supplied 85% of all shoemaking machines in the United States. In 1902 Alford got promoted to mechanical engineer, and invented and patented some new constructions for the United Shoe Machinery Company.\n\nIn 1907 Alford started working in engineering journalism for the Engineering Magazine company. From 1907 to 1911 he was engineering editor at the \"American Machinist\", and from 1911 to 1917 editor-in-chief. Sequentially he was editor for the \"Industrial Management\" from 1917 to 1920, from 1921 to 1923 editor for \"Manufacturing Industrial Management,\" and from 1923 to 1928 consulting editor for the \"Factory and Industrial Management\" and vice-president of the Ronald Press Company in New York. Alford co-developed the theory called systematic management, and was an advocate of this management style within the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME).\n\nIn 1929, Herbert Hoover appointed a president's commission to investigate the current state of the economy. Alford served on this panel and was the principal co-author of the committee's report, \"Recent Economic Changes\" (1929). From 1935 to 1937 he joined the Federal Communications Commission, where he was assistant engineer-in-charge of the manufacturing costs unit. In 1937 Alford jointed the faculty of New York University, where he became chairman of the department of administrative engineering.\n\nAlford was elected fellow of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers and was its former vice-president, and fellow of the Institute of Management and its former president. He was awarded the first Melville Medal in 1927 and in 1929 the Henry Laurence Gantt Medal from the American Society of Mechanical Engineers.\n\nAlford was a practitioner of systematic management and an advocate of this management style within the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. This systems of management principles, partly based on the ideas of Charles Babbage, was developed together with Alexander Hamilton Church, would paved the way to modern industrial management. Their views clashed with the scientific management approach advocated by Frederick Winslow Taylor. In 1912, Alford published a critique of scientific management that undermined Taylor's claims of success.\n\nAlford argued that labor efficiency improvements at the Philadelphia plant of the Link-Belt Company were due to the personality of company's president, James Mapes Dodge. Dodge had won much respect and trust from the workers because of arrangements and incentives he offered so that they would accept Taylor's changes.\n\nLater in 1912, Alford sat on the ASME committee that considered whether or not to publish Taylor's book, \"The Principles of Scientific Management\". Alford's criticisms of Taylor and his management techniques moderated the committee's position on the text. Because the committee's report was ambivalent about the merits of Scientific Management, the ASME declined to publish Taylor's book.\n\nAlford published his own management text, \"Industrial Management\". He advocated a reformist approach to labor and to unionism. In 1920, he co-founded the Management Division within the ASME. Alford advocated flexibility in \"industrial relations\" and \"human engineering\" and rejected fixed and rigid approaches to labor management such as scientific management. His approach to labor soon became the dominant accepted practice of corporate liberal management. Because of this approach, the Management Division soon became the largest division within the ASME.\n\nBooks, a selection:\n\nArticles, a selection:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2267466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2267466", "title": "List of GASB Statements", "text": "List of GASB Statements\n\nThe Governmental Accounting Standards Board Statements (GASB Statements in short) are issued by GASB to set generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) for state and local governments in the United States of America. These statements are the most authoritative source for governmental GAAP. Other business entities follow statements issued by Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41555266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41555266", "title": "Lázaro Báez", "text": "Lázaro Báez\n\nLázaro Báez (born February 11, 1951 in Corrientes, Argentina) is an Argentine businessman who is a central figure in the corruption scandals, known as \"The Route of the K-Money\", surrounding former Argentine Presidents Néstor Kirchner and Cristina Fernández de Kirchner. The case was also known as \"Lázarogate\".\n\nBáez became a friend of Kirchner in 1991, and in 2003 founded a construction company, Austral Construcciones, which was awarded many government contracts during Kirchner's presidency. In 2011 Báez built Kirchner's mausoleum. He has been called \"the main beneficiary of public contracts in Patagonia\".\n\nBáez was born in 1951 in San Luis del Palmar, Corrientes, Argentina, to a family of Peronists. His family moved to Río Gallegos, Santa Cruz, in Patagonia, in 1962. The move was reportedly occasioned by political persecution, his father having apparently had to leave his home province following the coup against President Arturo Frondizi.\n\nIn 1984 he married Norma Beatriz Calismonte, who worked as tutor assistant in a public secondary school.\n\nAfter completing high school, in 1980, he began his first job, as an office junior at a local branch of a National Bank. He then served as a sergeant in the army. In 1985, he started working at his second job, as a teller at the provincial state Bank of Santa Cruz. In 1990 he established a relationship with Néstor Kirchner by means of leaked bank accounts data Báez offered to Kirchner. Kirchner was at the time serving his last year as mayor of Río Gallegos and beginning a crucial campaign for governor, a position he would end up holding from 1991 to 2003. Báez then became bank assistant manager.\n\nBáez formed Austral Construcciones S.A. in 2003, and within three months the firm's capital rose from $AR12,000 to $AR500,000. Former Santa Cruz prosecutor Andrés Vivanco said in May 2013 that Báez \"was previously just a bank employee who has no legal way of justifying his increased fortune... Everything Lázaro Báez has come from Néstor Kirchner. He previously had nothing; he was not an entrepreneur because he never risked his capital, he would always just wait to submit a public \"tender\" with the government\".\n\nBeginning in 2005, Austral and other firms owned by Báez were awarded the majority of the contracts offered by the province of Santa Cruz during the presidency of Néstor Kirchner and 12% of the contracts awarded by the Ministry of Planning under Minister Julio de Vido. Over a five-year period, the firm received 4 billion dollars in federal contracts and 1.2 billion dollars in contracts for the province of Santa Cruz. His firm Southern Building was investigated in Liechtenstein for money laundering.\n\nAfter 2006, Báez began to buy properties along the Santa Cruz River. He ultimately paid more than $28 million for 10 properties totaling 200,000 acres. Later he contracted with Kirchner to construct the Cóndor Cliff-La Barrancosa Dams which would flood those lands. One commentator wrote in 2012 that Báez had plainly purchased the properties knowing that they would be made valuable by the dam project. \"In any serious country this would be called the use of privileged information, influence peddling, [and] corruption.\"\n\nAccording to a 2009 report, Báez constructed a luxury building on Kirchner-owned land in Rio Gallegos. The structure was completed in 2007.\n\nBáez built himself a mansion outside of Rio Gallegos. In recent years he has expanded his interests into the oil business and properties along the Santa Cruz River.\n\nBáez also owns the oil firms Misahar SA and Epsur SA, and the newspaper Prensa Libre in Rio Gallegos.\n\nHe has two sons, Martín Antonio Báez and Leandro Martín Báez. The former, who has his own mansion in Rio Gallegos, is considered Báez's likely successor as head of his empire.\n\nOn August 17, 2007, the Deputy Director of Research of the General Tax Directorate (DGI), Jaime Mecikovsky, completed an elaborate three-year investigation of public works contractors and concluded that Austral had issued false invoices.\n\nIn April 2013, Deputy Francisco De Narváez called Báez \"a person of great intimacy with the Kirchner family.\" Kirchner reportedly ate his last dinner with Báez and with the two men's wives. It was Báez, moreover, who built Kirchner's massive mausoleum in the Rio Gallegos Cemetery. In late December 2013 it was reported that the mausoleum had sustained structural damage, owing to its monumental weight, and that Báez had visited the site personally to inspect the damage.\n\nOn April 14, 2013, journalist Jorge Lanata of Periodismo para todos (Journalism for All), a news program aired on Argentina's Channel 13, presented a report entitled \"La ruta del dinero K\" (\"The K Money Trail\"), with \"K\" standing for the late Argentinian president Néstor Kirchner. Lanata's report included a videotaped testimony by financier Federico Elaskar and a hidden-camera recording of businessman Leonardo Fariña in which these men described large-scale illegal financial manipulations by members of the Kirchner circle, including Báez, that involved the transfer of about 55 million euros over a six-month period to Switzerland and other foreign tax havens. The men indicated that Kirchner himself was directly involved in these maneuvers.\n\nAllegedly, at Báez's direction, Fariña orchestrated a plan whereby the funds were sent abroad via Elaskar's financial firm, SGI. More than fifty companies were purportedly created with the express purpose of facilitating these transfers. Also supposedly involved in this scheme was Fabián Rossi, who was said to have funneled the money through Panama banks. According to Elaskar, silver from Patagonia was shipped to Switzerland by way of Montevideo, Uruguay.\n\nAsked on hidden camera whether Báez was an associate of Kirchner's, Fariña said yes, and added that \"in politics there are no front men, only operators.\" Elaskar said that he had been cheated and threatened with death by business associates of Báez. Elaskar also said that both of Báez's sons had been involved in the offshore firms to which funds had been illegally transferred. Martin Báez runs Teegan, a firm founded in Panama and based in the tax haven of Belize.\n\nIn a subsequent interview with Rolando Graña on América Noticias, however, Elaskar claimed that there had been no money laundering or death threats, and that everything he had said on Lanata's program was untrue. \"I lied. I apologize,\" he said. He maintained that he had lied because he was \"angry\" and \"young\" Fariña, in an interview with Jorge Rial of Intrusos (Intruders), also claimed to have been lying in the videotape aired on Lanata's program. Fariña said that he apologized to Báez, whom he called \"a first-rate guy.\"\n\nLanata replied to these claims by saying that Fariña was \"not the brain\" of the operation and that on his next show he would provide evidence Báez was the real mastermind. In an early May interview with Lanata, Kirchner's former secretary, Míriam Quiroga, confirmed some of the charges made by Fariña and Elaskar about Báez, saying that at the Casa Rosada, during Kirchner's presidency, she had seen bags, apparently containing money, that were sent to the Kirchners’ mansion in Santa Cruz province, where they were placed in a vault, the money later presumably finding its way to bank accounts in Switzerland, Panama, and Belize.\n\nAfter the Lanata program was aired, several opposition legislators called on public prosecutor Carlos Gonella to investigate the accusations against Báez. They also called for the freezing of Báez's assets.\n\nA judicial investigation of Báez on charges of money laundering, conspiracy, and cover-up was initiated on April 17. Martín Irurzun of the Federal Court appointed Sebastián Casanello as the judge in the case.\n\nOn the same date, and again in early May, raids were carried out on SGI's offices at \"La Rosadita\" by la Policía de Seguridad Aeroportuaria (Airport Security Police, PSA) on the orders of Casanello. In early June, Báez's possessions and safety boxes were raided by the National Gendarmerie, also on Casanello's orders. Báez was described as being \"visibly upset\" by the raids, which he described as \"unnecessary show.\"\n\nOther persons charged in the case included Elaskar, Fariña, Rossi, Báez's son Leandro Martín Báez, and Daniel Perez Gadin.\n\nOn May 3, after Elaskar and Fariña had already been charged, federal prosecutor William Marijuan filed money laundering charges against Báez.\n\nIt was reported in early May that Báez had made some of the suspicious land purchases through three of his companies: Austral Construcciones, Austral Agro, and Valle Hermoso.\n\nJudge Casanello called Lárazo Báez for inquiry in 2016. He took a plane with unknown destination, so the judge ordered his detention, fearing an attempt to escape.\n\nIt was reported on May 5 that Báez was suing Elaskar and Fariña for the statements they had made about him on Lanata's program. Báez called the accusations part of \"a smear campaign...with a clear political agenda.\" On May 22, Báez said that he had never worked with Fariña, and that Fariña had, rather, worked for the firm Pluscarga, which did business with Báez's businesses. He also denied any involvement in money laundering or any business relationship with Kirchner.\n\nBáez's lawsuit against Fariña and his wife, Karina Jelinek, on charges of slander was dismissed in early July by judge Raúl García.\n\nIn December 2013, the argentinian newspaper La Nacion reported that seven Báez companies had signed documents agreeing to rent 935 rooms a month at the Alto Calafate Hotel throughout 2010 and 2011, whether or not they were occupied. regardless of whether in fact employees were staying there. La Nacion additionally revealed that Báez had paid at least $3.2 million to Kirchner in \"rent\" for Las Dunas, an inn in El Calafate, and that he had paid a total of $14.5 million in \"rent\" for the two hotels, plus the La Aldea Hotel, during 2010 and 2011, even as Báez was receiving large sums from the federal government for public works projects.\n\nIt also emerged in December 2013 that Báez, during the previous ten years, in Santa Cruz alone, had purchased tracts of land amounting to at least 263,000 hectares, or 13 times the size of the Federal District.\n\nAlso in December 2013, Báez asked for an injunction that would prohibit the media from publishing anything about his business or personal ties to Kirchner. This request was rejected by El Foro de Periodismo Argentino (Argentine Journalism Forum, FOPEA) and the Asociación de Entidades Periodísticas Argentinas (Association of Argentine Journalism Entities, ADEPA), the latter of which called the idea unconstitutional. Reacting to Báez's request, Parliament member Margarita Stolbizer described him as a \"mobster\" while Labor Party leader Gabriel Solano described the use of \"prior censorship to defend the 'confidentiality' of the business activities of Lázaro Báez\" as undemocratic.\n\nOn the orders of tax court judge Javier López Biscayart, who was investigating Báez on charges of tax evasion and money laundering, the Argentinian federal police raided the offices of Austral Construcciones in Buenos Aires in late December 2013.\n\nIn January 2014, it was reported that Báez traveled with such a level of security that it was \"as if he were the President of the United States in a war zone.\"\n\nIt was reported in August 2013 that the investigation of Báez's financial dealings in Switzerland was stalled because that country's Department of Justice was refusing to release information about Swiss bank accounts held in the name of one of Báez's sons.\n\nThe Swiss ambassador to Argentina, Johannes Matyassy, said in January 2014 that a criminal investigation into Báez's financial activities in Switzerland was progressing. Matyassy said that this was the first case in which Switzerland and Argentina had collaborated in such a manner under a new cooperative agreement.\n\nIt was reported in late January 2014 that a Uruguayan investigation into the money laundering charges against Báez had not progressed, owing to the failure of Argentinian authorities to cooperate with the investigation.\n"}
{"id": "9325850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9325850", "title": "Mikhail Krotov", "text": "Mikhail Krotov\n\nMikhail Valentinovich Krotov (in , born March 14, 1963, in Leningrad, Soviet Union) is a Russian lawyer, businessman and official.\n\nOn April 28, 1995, he was elected deputy chairman of the board of directors of the Baltic Sea Steamship Company. On October 2, 1995, as the Chairman Ivan Lushchinsky had been shot dead, Krotov became the chairman of its board of directors and held this position until summer 1996.\n\nIn 2005, he was a first deputy director general of the Gazprom Media holding.\n\nSince November 7, 2005, he has been President Vladimir Putin's envoy to the Constitutional Court of the Russian Federation.\n"}
{"id": "1687414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1687414", "title": "Mir Shakil-ur-Rahman", "text": "Mir Shakil-ur-Rahman\n\nMir Shakil-ur-Rahman is a Pakistani media mogul and philanthropist. As a businessman, he is known as the founder of 24-hour news cycle network, \"Geo TV\", as well as its executive. In addition, he is the owner of the Jang Group of Newspapers, that was started by his father Mir Khalil ur Rehman and part owner of the Independent Media Corporation. This media group publishes a number of newspapers and magazines in Urdu and English. IMC also owns the Geo TV network.\n\nMir Shakil-ur-Rehman attended St Patrick's High School, Karachi and is listed among the famous personalities of Pakistan that attended this high school.\n\nShakil founded Geo TV in May 2002. In the late 1990s, during Nawaz Sharif's second term as Prime Minister, Shakil was first asked by Sharif's government to dismiss some of the staff members of the Jang Group.\nKeeping in line with the tradition of the media group that was founded by Mir Shakil's father, Mir Khalil ur Rehman, Shakil refused to dismiss the staff, a number of tax evasion cases were filed against his news group amounting to 40 million US dollars, followed by freezing of bank accounts and seizure of their assets. The government withdrew their court cases after some facts were made public by Shakil.\n\nShakil established a television channel network by the name of Geo TV in May 2002.\n\nMir Shakil ur Rahman has also served as president of All Pakistan Newspapers Society in 2006. He remained a convener of the 'Wage Board Committee' of the society in 2010. He was the president of the Council of Pakistan Newspaper Editors in 1995–96 and again in 2003–04 and also the president of \"Pakistan Broadcasters Association\" (PBA) in 2005. Shakil served as a member of Press Council of Pakistan in 2013.\n\nHe is the youngest son of late Mir Khalil ur Rehman (1927-1992) who was the founder and editor of the Jang newspaper.\n"}
{"id": "45350227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45350227", "title": "Nepal Financial Reporting Standards", "text": "Nepal Financial Reporting Standards\n\nNepal Financial Reporting Standards ('NFRS') are designed as a common global language for business affairs so that company accounts are understandable and comparable within Nepal. The rules to be followed by accountants to maintain books of accounts which is comparable, understandable, reliable and relevant as per the users internal or external.\n\nNFRS was issued by Nepal Accounting Standard Board in 2013. Earlier it has issued Nepal Accounting Standards. NFRS is prepared in line with on IFRS.\n\nFinancial statements are a structured representation of the financial positions and financial performance of an entity. The objective of financial statements is to provide information about the financial position, financial performance and cash flows of an entity that is useful to a wide range of users in making economic decisions.\n\nTo meet this objective, financial statements provide information about an entity's:\nThis information, along with other information in the notes, assists users of financial statements in predicting the entity's future cash flows and, in particular, their timing and certainty.\n\nThe following are the general features in NFRS:\nFair presentation requires the faithful representation of the effects of the transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the Framework of NFRS.\nFinancial statements are present on a going concern basis unless management either intends to liquidate the entity or to cease trading, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.\nAn entity shall recognise items as assets, liabilities, equity, income and expenses when they satisfy the definition and recognition criteria for those elements in the Framework of NFRS.\nEvery material class of similar items has to be presented separately. Items that are of a dissimilar nature or function shall be presented separately unless they are immaterial.\nOffsetting is generally forbidden in NFRS.\nNFRS requires that at least annually a complete set of financial statements is presented.\nNFRS requires entities to present comparative information in respect of the preceding period for all amounts reported in the current period's financial statements. In addition comparative information shall also be provided for narrative and descriptive information if it is relevant to understanding the current period's financial statements.\nNFRS requires that the presentation and classification of items in the financial statements is retained from one period to the next unless: \n(a) it is apparent, following a significant change in the nature of the entity's operations or a review of its financial statements, that another presentation or classification would be more appropriate having regard to the criteria for the selection and application of accounting policies.\n(b) an NFRS standard requires a change in presentation.\n\nNepal Financial Reporting Standards (NFRSs)\n\nNepal Accounting Standards (NASs)\n\n\nIFRICs & SICs\n\nThe applicability depends upon the nature of entity. However NFRS-9, Financial Instrument shall be applicable with effect from 16 July 2015 onwards.\n\nType\nCategory A - from FY 2014-15\nCategory B - from FY 2015-16\n\nCategory C - from FY 2016-17\n\nCategory D - from FY 2016-17\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3517808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3517808", "title": "Overhoff Technology", "text": "Overhoff Technology\n\nOverhoff Technology Corp is a subsidiary of US Nuclear Corp, (OTC BB: UCLE) based in Milford, Ohio that designs, constructs, and sells radiation monitoring equipment. Their product line includes tritium monitors (an Overhoff specialty), heavy water leak detectors, gamma survey meters, environmental ion chambers and neutron dosimeters which are used to detect radioactive tritium in air, water and ground sources.\n\nOverhoff Technology's products are ISO 9001 certified and used globally for nuclear power plants, fusion energy research, development of new pharmaceuticals, defense industries, and research facilities. The Company has been awarded contracts by the United States Department of Defense and sells tritium equipment to China, South Korean, Canada, UK and Argentina based nuclear power facilities. \n\nOverhoff Technology Corp was founded by Mario Overhoff (1928-2005). The Company was acquired by Optron Scientific Corp/Technical Associates in 2006 and operates under US Nuclear Corp. The Company became publicly traded in early 2015 and trades on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board under the trading symbol: UCLE\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47957314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47957314", "title": "Paddy Cosgrave", "text": "Paddy Cosgrave\n\nPaddy Cosgrave is an Irish entrepreneur. He is a co-founder of Web Summit, an annual technology conference, and CEO of the company that runs Web Summit and other events. In 2015 he was listed 18th in the \"Wired UK\" list of the most influential people in Europe in the field of technology.\n\nPatrick \"Paddy\" Cosgrave grew up on a farm in County Wicklow. He was educated at Glenstal Abbey School and Trinity College Dublin, where he studied Business, Economics and Social Studies (BESS). While at Trinity he was president of the University Philosophical Society (The Phil) and editor of \"Piranha\", a satirical college magazine. During his presidency of The Phil, the society introduced Phil Speaks, an outreach initiative aimed at promoting debating and public speaking in Irish secondary schools. Cosgrave graduated with a BA from Trinity College, Dublin's BESS program in 2006.\n\nCosgrave was one of the organizers and the executive director of Rock the Vote Ireland, a campaign launched in April 2007 to encourage young people to vote in the May 2007 Irish general election. He was also a co-founder of MiCandidate, a website that \"provided detailed information on every candidate running in the 2007 general election\". MiCandidate expanded its scope to become a syndicator of news and information about European politicians to media organisations. The company was sold for \"an undisclosed sum\" in October 2009.\n\nCosgrave is a co-founder of the Web Summit and F.ounders conferences, and the CEO of Ci, the company that runs the two conferences and other events. F.ounders is an invitation-only event first held in Dublin in October 2009. The first Dublin Web Summit in November 2010 was attended by approximately 400 people. The fourth annual Web Summit in November 2014 had an attendance of over 22,000, and 30,000 were expected to attend the event in Dublin in November 2015. Starting in 2016, the Web Summit was held in Lisbon, although Ci continued to be headquartered in Dublin. In 2014 Ci began introducing new events in the United States (Collision) and Hong Kong (RISE), with an event called SURGE planned for February 2016 in India.\n\nCosgrave was awarded the 2015 Irish Exporters Association annual gold medal. He was listed 18th in the 2015 \"Wired UK\" list of the \"100 most influential individuals in the wider \"Wired\" world\".\n\nWeb Summit's official website\n"}
{"id": "24330621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24330621", "title": "Paul G. Hahnemann", "text": "Paul G. Hahnemann\n\nPaul G. Hahnemann (31 October 1912 in Strasbourg – 23 January 1997 in Munich) sometimes known as \"Nischen-Paule\", was a leading director at BMW between 1961 and 1972. \n\nAfter the end of the First World War (which was followed by the transfer of Strasbourg, where the family had been living, to France), Hahnemann's mother fled, with her two sons across the Rhine, to Kehl, now on Germany's western frontier. He successfully completed his Abitur (final exam programme) at the (senior school) in Karlsruhe, a short distance to the north.\n\nAt the end of 1960 Hahnemann was recruited from Auto Union by Herbert Quandt, BMW's largest shareholder, and is believed by some to have had more influence over the business than the Managing Director Karl-Heinz Sonne or his successor Gerhard Wilcke during the 1960s, but his tenure failed to survive the arrival of a third Managing Director in the form of Eberhard von Kuenheim and he left following a difference of opinion over how fast to increase capacity at the company's newly acquired Dingolfing facility.\n\nHahnemann was a brilliant if sometimes subversive salesman who oversaw the introduction in 1961 of the BMW 1500. Whether the car created a new 'niche', or merely exploited the niche created by the departure of the Borgward Isabella, its commercial success transformed BMW from a marginal manufacturer with an uncertain future into one of Europe's most consistently profitable auto-makers.\n"}
{"id": "14110373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14110373", "title": "R. R. M. Carpenter", "text": "R. R. M. Carpenter\n\nRobert Ruliph Morgan Carpenter I (July 30, 1877 – June 11, 1949) was an American executive and member of the board of directors of DuPont.\n\nHe was born on July 30, 1877 to Walter Samuel Carpenter and Bedde Morgan.\n\nKnown as \"Ruly\", Carpenter was educated at the Hillman Academy in his hometown of Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania, and at Massachusetts Institute of Technology.\n\nHe worked in his family's hardware store before joining DuPont as a district purchasing agent in 1906. He married Margaretta Lammot du Pont, the sister of company president Pierre S. du Pont, on December 18, 1906. They had a son, Robert Ruliph Morgan Carpenter, Jr.\n\nHe began working under another brother, Irénée du Pont in the development department, of which he was named director in 1911. Carpenter was instrumental in guiding the company's diversification outside the explosives industry, being appointed to the executive committee and serving on the board of directors from 1914 until his death in 1949. During his tenure, he held positions including head of personnel and vice president. His younger brother, Walter S. Carpenter, Jr., was President of DuPont from 1940 to 1948.\n\nIn 1940, Carpenter joined the board of trustees of the University of Delaware, and was a major catalyst for the development of its athletic program, personally funding the construction of a new gymnasium. In 1943, he purchased the Philadelphia Phillies of the National League. He left day-to-day control in the hands of his son, R. R. M. Carpenter, Jr., who continued his father's tradition of substantial support for the University of Delaware’s athletic program after his father's death.\n\nCarpenter also served as president of Wilmington's Homeopathic Hospital, as a trustee of Philadelphia's Academy of Natural Sciences, and as director of the Girard Trust Company, and of the Philadelphia, Baltimore and Washington Railroad.\n\nHe died on June 11, 1949, of cancer at Memorial Hospital in Wilmington, Delaware.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48108635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48108635", "title": "Refuge Water Supply Program", "text": "Refuge Water Supply Program\n\nThe Refuge Water Supply Program (RWSP) is administered by the United States Department of the Interior jointly by the Bureau of Reclamation and Fish and Wildlife Service and tasked with acquiring a portion and delivering a total of 555,515 acre feet (AF) of water annually to 19 specific protected wetland areas in the Central Valley of California as mandated with the passing of the Central Valley Project Improvement Act signed on October 30, 1992 by President George H. W. Bush.\n\nThe Central Valley (California) once contained over 4 million acres of naturally occurring wetlands that provided habitat: land, food, and shelter for resident and migratory birds and wildlife. The Central Valley, historically and today, constitutes a significant portion of the Pacific Flyway used by millions of migrating birds each year.\n\nThe Central Valley's winter flood-prone geography and summer dry climate were natural constraints to permanent human settlement. The Central Valley Project (CVP); an interconnected engineered system of reservoirs, aqueducts and flood control measures, constructed by the US Bureau of Reclamation; managed flooding and provided reliable water supplies year-round with highly managed and calculated water storage, release and conveyance infrastructure. Along with the construction of similar facilities by others, the CVP's flood control and water delivery systems created a stable environment suitable for permanent human development in the Central Valley.\n\nControlling and manipulating the water supply for human benefit dramatically and quickly transformed the landscape. All but 400,000 acres of natural wetlands were transformed for development, a reduction in wetland area of 90%. The loss of wetlands concentrated the migrating and resident wildlife on less land and required their sharing of and dependence on less water. This unhealthy crowding caused bird populations to decline as they suffered from disease and the lack of necessary food, shelter, and water. Compounding the problem, human activity, in some cases, polluted the waters that flowed into the remaining wetlands. The Kesterson Reservoir disaster provided a clear indication that wildlife was suffering in the modified Central Valley and helped inspire actions to mitigate for the CVP's effects to bird and fish populations.\n\nThe Central Valley Project Improvement Act (CVPIA) was signed into law on October 30, 1992 as mitigation and remedy for some of the CVP's adverse environmental effects, specifically, to increase the population and improve the health of the Central Valley's anadromous fish and increase the acreage and health of wetlands used by migratory birds and other resident wildlife. The CVPIA is managed by the United States Department of Interior through collaboration between the Bureau of Reclamation and the Fish and Wildlife Service.\n\nCVPIA Section 3406(d) mandates that 555,515 AF of water of suitable quality be delivered to maintain and improve wetland habitat areas in 19 wetland areas specifically identified in the \"Report on Refuge Water Supply Investigations (March 1989)\" and the \"San Joaquin Basin Action Plan/Kesterson Mitigation Action Plan (December 1989)\", collectively referred to as 'the Refuges'. These Refuges comprise nearly 200,000 acres of wetlands and as such represent almost 50% of the wetlands remaining in California's Central Valley. Reclamation created the Refuge Water Supply Program (RWSP) to manage and administer the activities necessary to ensure the acquisition and delivery of this water as required under this section. Like the CVPIA, the RWSP is administered jointly by the Bureau of Reclamation (from the Mid-Pacific Regional Office in Sacramento, CA) and the Fish and Wildlife Service (from the Pacific Southwest Regional Office in Sacramento, CA)\n\nThe following Refuges, benefiting from CVPIA legislation, are administered by the Department of the Interior, Fish and Wildlife Service as National Wildlife Refuges. In some instances the specific Refuge named in the CVPIA is currently a constituent part of a FWS administrative complex of refuges that includes several such refuges and/or other non-benefiting lands.\n\nThe following CVPIA benefiting refuges are components of the Sacramento National Wildlife Refuge Complex: Sacramento National Wildlife Refuge, Delevan National Wildlife Refuge, Colusa National Wildlife Refuge, Sutter National Wildlife Refuge.\n\nThe following CVPIA benefiting Refuges are components of the San Luis National Wildlife Refuge Complex: San Luis Unit, West Bear Creek Unit, East Bear Creek Unit, Kesterson Unit, Freitas Unit and Merced National Wildlife Refuge. The refuges currently identified as 'Units' were separate refuges at the time the legislation was written and passed.\n\nThe following CVPIA benefiting Refuges are components of the Kern National Wildlife Refuge Complex: Kern National Wildlife Refuge and Pixley National Wildlife Refuge\n\nThe following Refuges, benefiting from CVPIA legislation, are administered by the State of California, Department of Fish and Wildlife as Wildlife Areas. In some instances the specific Refuge named in the CVPIA is currently a part of a DFW administrative unit that includes several such refuges and/or other non-benefiting lands.\n\nGray Lodge Wildlife Area; Los Banos Wildlife Area (portion); the following currently designated 'units' of the North Grasslands Wildlife Area, China Island Unit and Salt Slough Unit; and the Volta Wildlife Area (portion). Note: 'portion', is used to indicate that the current existing wildlife area boundary is larger than it was in the defining report. CVP water obligated for the RWSP is only permitted to be used on that portion of the wildlife area specifically described in the defining report and legislation.\n\nThe Grassland Resource Conservation District (GRCD) comprises 75,000 acres of land including: the Grassland Water District (GWD) which provides water to 165 hunting clubs; the Kesterson and Freitas Units of the San Luis National wildlife Refuge (NWR); Volta Wildlife Management Area (WMA); Los Banos WMA; and privately owned wetlands. As such, the GRCD includes 60,000 acres of privately owned hunting clubs, 12,000 acres of land owned by the Federal and state governments, and 3,000 acres of cropland. The federal and state Refuges identified in the CVPIA legislation that are within the GRCD do not share GRCD's water allocation. \n\nThe water associated with the program is either categorized as Level 2 or Incremental Level 4 and there are different supply quantities and characteristics of each. The goal of the program is to provide the 'Full Level 4' water quantity which is the cumulative sum of the full quantity of each category for each Refuge. Program-wide, typically between 75% and 85% of Full Level 4 is delivered annually.\n\nThe water the RWSP provides accounts for varying portions of an individual Refuge's total water supply. Because some Refuges do not have adequate conveyance capacity to them (Pixley NWR, Merced NWR, Sutter NWR, East Bear Creek Unit and Gray Lodge WA) delivered water supplies vary annually with hydrological and climactic conditions. Construction projects enabling these Refuges to receive water supplies have been identified and in some cases are progressing but funding limitations will likely cause this condition to persist.\n\nThe amount of water identified as being required for the optimal management of a designated wetland is defined as that refuge's 'Full Level 4' quantity. The 555,515AF of water the RWSP is tasked with providing is the sum of all of the specified refuges' Full Level 4 quantities. Full Level 4 is a contractually obligated amount of water that consists of 2 blocks, Level 2 and Incremental Level 4. Each refuge has a 'Full Level 4' quantity which is the sum of its total Level 2, and total Incremental Level 4 quantity of water. These amounts are provided in the table \"RWSP Contract Water Quantities\".\n\nEach of the 19 benefiting Refuges has its own Level 2 water quantity which is based on the average water supplies necessary to maintain the wetland areas in existence prior to the passing of the CVPIA or equate to its prior dependably delivered quantity (regardless of water quality) and collectively totals 422,251 AF. For this reason the delivery of a Refuge's Level 2 allocation is considered to be essential for a Refuge's successful operation.\n\nFor those refuges that have the infrastructure to receive it, Level 2 water comes from the CVP, meaning a fixed portion of the federal water supply stored and delivered by the CVP Project is automatically dedicated annually for Refuge use and thus provides a perennially reliable water source. The RWSP manages and funds several long-term contracts (5 – 40 years) with a variety of water agencies to convey this water from its CVP source to a Refuges' boundaries.\n\nIt is important to note that the individual Refuges determine the amount of this water to be delivered, per month, at their discretion. This is a unique condition because most CVP water contracts impose limitations on both the total monthly delivery amount and the months in which deliveries may occur.\n\nThe incremental difference between the Refuges' Full Level 4 allocation and its Level 2 allocation defines Incremental Level 4 (IL4) and represents the quantity of water necessary for Refuges to ideally manage all lands identified in the refuge reports for the benefit of waterfowl. In most cases IL4 water is needed to fully support an expanded wetland footprint. Like Level 2 water, each refuge has its own Incremental Level 4 quantity but unlike Level 2 supplies, this water is not dedicated from CVP supply and must be acquired from other sources, such as willing sellers or from those relinquishing their federal or state supplies. The RWSP manages and funds contracts of varied duration to acquire and convey this water from its source to the refuges' boundaries. The suppliers, availability and cost of water available as Incremental Level 4 is less predictable than Level 2 supplies because of unpredictable region-wide water needs and usage; the potential lack of sufficient conveyance infrastructure; inconsistent annual natural conditions, specifically rainfall; and occasional water quality concerns.\n\nAdditionally, Individual refuges retain the right to refuse to accept water that the RWSP has the ability to acquire if it is not of suitable quality or does not benefit the refuge at the time it is available. Thus, water supplied delivered in a year may be less than those that were potentilly available.\n\nThe RWSP's efforts are concentrated into 3 components, Water Acquisition, Facility Construction and Water Conveyance.\n\nCVPIA Section 3406(d)(2) requires the acquisition of IL4 Water for critical wetland habitat supporting resident and migratory waterfowl, threatened and endangered species, and wetland dependent aquatic biota on the Refuges. These supplies are ideally used to allow refuges to optimally manage the preserved land for the improvement of waterfowl populations.\n\nIL4 water consists of long-term and annual purchases from willing sellers of both surface and groundwater supplies; supplies at no cost, e.g., water exchanges; water delivered under a mitigation agreement with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and 'permanent water', water that the program has purchased a permanent right to take under specific conditions.\n\nCalifornia, and the Central Valley, experienced persistent drought conditions for much of the early part of the twenty first century. With global warming expected alter historic conditions the long-term availability oh IL4 supplies is questionable. To meet its acquisition and delivery mandate the RWSP was challenged to find reliable and affordable sources for Incremental 4 water to deliver to the refuges well into this uncertain future. The North Valley Regional Recycled Water Program will make treated, recycled water from the Cities of Turlock and Modesto available for re-use at the Refuges. The RWSP took an active role in this pioneering program's development and in return, in 2016, signed a 40-year contract for water deliveries from it.\n\nCVPIA Section 3406(d)(5) provides for facilities construction to benefit the mandate of supplying refuge water. This component funds projects that identify, construct and/or maintain infrastructure projects supporting the long-term delivery of firm, reliable water supplies to the boundary of the Refuges. The RWSP's goal is to have the necessary facilities in place allowing for the delivery of Full L4 water supplies to the Refuges that meet their timing and scheduling requirements. A total of 46 new or modifications to major structures and/or actions were identified to provide needed capacity for the delivery of Full Level 4 surface supplies to these refuges.\n\nCVPIA Sections 3406(d)(1),(2) and (5) of the CVPIA describe the functions and responsibilities of the Refuge Water Conveyance (Wheeling) Component. The use of a water conveyance facility by someone other than the owner or operator to transport water is referred to as \"wheeling.\" The conveyance component is responsible for ensuring the delivery of a refuge's level 2 and acquired water supplies through contracts and agreements that allow for these water supplies to move from source to refuge destination.\n\nThe reservoirs that hold water destined for a refuge are connected to the refuges by a network of channels, owned and operated by multiple entities. Similar to a network of roadways there are conveyance channels of many kinds (with names like: aqueduct, canal, slough and ditch) and sizes. Some channels are free to use by the RWSP, like rivers, and some require payment, such as those built and maintained by a water district. The RWSP negotiated contracts coordinating the delivery of water. Reclamation currently has nine long-term (15–50 years) conveyance agreements that are administered by the RWSP, one Service 40-year conveyance agreement, cooperative agreements to reimburse delivering entities for costs of conveying L2 and IL4 water supplies through federal, state, and private water distribution systems to the refuges and agreements to reimburse costs for groundwater pumping in instances where groundwater is pumped at the refuge itself. Deliveries are monitored throughout the system as water enters and exits metered channels.\n\nWater that is transferred any distance suffers what are termed 'conveyance losses' which means that the amount of water released at the start is not the same amount that ultimately arrives. The difference between what is sent versus what is received are conveyance losses and can be the result of evaporation or seepage (soaking into the land). In some cases water travels over 300 miles to reach its final refuge destination.\n\nThe CVPIA was enacted to increase the population and improve the health of the Central Valley's anadromous fish and increase the acreage and health of wetlands used by migratory birds and other resident wildlife both of which suffered as a result of the construction of the CVP. The RWSP focuses on the health of wetlands by acquiring and conveying necessary water supplies. Since CVPIA was enacted numerous biological benefits have resulted from supplying the Refuges with a reliable year-round water supply that adequately meets the refuge-specific water delivery schedules developed for individual wetland management requirements. Prior to CVPIA, refuge managers had to concentrate the majority of their water use in the fall and early winter months, when Central Valley waterfowl numbers peaked. With the passage of CVPIA, the habitat calendar was expanded to the full year. These increased and reliable supplies of water enable managers to enhance existing habitats, expand their wetland base, and provide increased benefits to a greater number of wetland-dependent species.\n\nRefuge activities are water dependent. Having a firm and adequate supply of water available when most beneficial throughout the year enables managers to implement improved management techniques and allows them to better manage lands and activities. This increased efficiency and reliability has both increased wetland acreage and improved wetland health by affording refuge managers with the ability to manage a diverse mix of habitat types that more fully satisfied year-round environmental requirements of many wildlife species. \nBefore the CVPIA, refuge managers concentrated the majority of water use in fall and early winter months (October - December), when Central Valley waterfowl numbers peaked. With the passage of CVPIA, the habitat calendar was expanded to the full year, allowing refuge managers' the ability to provide habitat to an extended group of migratory birds as well as other wildlife and grow plant materials that provide a food supply or habitat for food sources. Under CVPIA programs, moist soil food plant irrigations are carried out since water is reliably available during August and September to satisfy the needs of the early arriving migrant waterfowl and shorebirds, maintenance flows are applied throughout the winter months to improve water quality and decrease avian disease outbreaks, and during spring and summer, when wetland habitat can be particularly limited by hydrology, water provides critical nesting habitat for waterfowl and colonial birds as well as habitat for resident wildlife and their young. Wintering wildlife also benefit from this habitat diversity, as seasonal wetlands are now managed to coincide with peak migration times of shorebirds and waterfowl.\n\nWith the increased frequency and acreage of irrigated moist soil food plants there has been a doubling in desirable plant biomass, which equates to more high-quality, high energy food available to waterfowl. In some refuges waterfowl food production has increased tenfold. Timely de-watering and irrigation promote the germination and irrigation of important moist-soil food plants, such as swamp timothy and watergrass. These plants provide a high-energy food source through both their seeds and associated invertebrate communities. The increase in supply reliability allows wetland managers to lower water depths to make seeds and invertebrates available without the fear of having wetlands completely evaporate.\n\nWaterfowl, shorebirds and other wetland-dependent wildlife have benefited as their habitats have been expanded and enhanced. Central Valley wetlands receiving CVP water supplies have increased by more than 20,000 acres since the passage of the CVPIA while tens of thousands of acres of habitat have been enhanced. This wetland acreage helps explain the 75% decrease in waterfowl disease-related mortality in some wetland areas as the birds spread out over a greater area.\n\nAt least as important as the increase in acreage, improvement in the quality of previously existing wetlands that has resulted from the delivery of suitable water. Increasing water supplies to wetlands also has the effect of improving water quality, both on and off refuges. For example, providing firm, quality water supplies has reduced the exposure of waterfowl and shore birds spending the winter in the Grasslands area of the valley to contaminents. In a report on selenium in aquatic birds from the Central Valley, 1986-1994, FWS scientists noted that application of freshwater resulted in the decline of selenium contamination. Improved maintenance water flows through refuge ponds to improve water quality and reduce avian disease. The ability to battle avian disease outbreaks, such as botulism and cholera, is greatly assisted by applying additional water and creating a \"flow through\" system of water delivery and drainage. This \"flow through\" also helps deal with wetland areas high in salinity, which are often lower in productivity and diversity. CVPIA water allows wetland managers to \"flush\" salts from wetland basins and improve soil quality.\n\nSince the passage of the CVPIA, Sacramento Valley areas receiving CVP water have seen a 20% increase in waterfowl use and a significant decline in water-borne wildlife diseases. Waterfowl use in the early fall have recorded increases of 800 percent, from 2 million to over 18 million waterfowl use days per year.\n\nWhite-faced ibis and sandhill cranes are excellent examples of how the availability of adequate water supplies enabled refuge managers to provide habitat for endemic species that had been in severe decline for decades. Improved water supplies first led to an increase in the numbers of frogs, snails, aquatic insects, and small fish. This, in turn, provided the ibis and cranes with habitat for late-spring and summer nesting, essential components for these species. The increased and improved breeding habitat resulted in a steady upswing in bird numbers.\n\nThis, in turn, provided the ibis and cranes with habitat for late-spring and summer nesting, essential components for these species. The increased and improved breeding habitat resulted in a steady upswing in bird numbers.\nWetlands are diverse ecosystems. The increased wetland acreage and improved water quality has benefited more than bird populations. Improved water supplies led to an increase in the numbers of frogs, snails, aquatic insects, and small fish. Habitat that is now available during the months of August and early September is utilized by resident wildlife and their young during a critical time of the year when wetland habitat is otherwise reduced. Introducing water for semi-permanent and permanent wetland habitat in the spring and summer directly benefits the recovery of special status species such as the giant garter snake and tri-colored blackbirds. \n\nThe CVPIA is a federal program and receives funding every year through Congressional appropriation. It would require between $50 - $60 Million annually to achieve the goals of the RWSP. The most recent budget (FY 2017) provided approximately $22 Million.\n\nCalifornia Department of Fish and Wildlife\n\nThe Central Valley Joint Venture\n"}
{"id": "45260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45260", "title": "Safe trade", "text": "Safe trade\n\nSafe trade is a slogan advocated by Greenpeace in its desire to \"green\" the World Trade Organization and the Doha Development Round. It is designed to compete with \"free trade\" as a concept.\n\nSafe trade is generally seen as a single framework of rules worldwide to drastically inhibit the flow of alien organisms (e.g. Genetically modified organisms, imported animals) across the borders of ecoregions, to preserve their natural wild biodiversity. It seeks to prevent ecological disasters caused by imported organisms or untested genetic technologies, and to augment and increase local natural capital by encouraging soil remediation, precision agriculture, and local consumption of the native species, rather than imported organisms and heavy use of pesticides.\n\nAn important achievement of safe trade advocacy is the Biosafety Protocol agreed in Montreal in January 2000. Although it relied on the weaker legal principle of Informed Consent and not the much stronger Precautionary Principle language sought by advocates, the protocol was considered by most to be a victory that could enhance both biosafety and biosecurity.\n\nOther safe trade reforms seek to advance sustainability by reducing reliance on energy subsidies and oil-based transport, and (indirectly) improves equity in economic affairs - that is, it promotes a safer political economy which is more respectful of life in general.\n\nSafe trade is a major goal of systems of Bioregional democracy and is often advocated alongside it, e.g. by Greens. Both are also implicitly related to Community-Based Economics, as local trade in local goods with no reliance on alien organisms presents no ecological risk to its genomes, soil, or drainage basins. Accordingly, some advocates argue, local trade in any native species within an ecoregion's borders should not be taxed at all, as it presents little or no ecological risk compared to imported goods, and so requires little or no regulation, labelling, inspection, or other expenses.\n\nThe assumption that imports carry moral hazards, and that tax, trade, tariff measures should compensate for harms done, is shared by advocates of fair trade whose programs address, in addition, more overt social justice concerns of human beings, such as the maintenance of the \"human capital\" of a region. Both initiatives are alternatives to free trade, which has no such controls, and generally permits and encourages free transit in goods (but not, in general, labour) across ecological and social borders.\n\nA broader understanding of biosecurity that is emerging under threat of biological warfare, and the fear that such economically devastating events as the mad cow disease epidemic could recur, either deliberately (as an act of bioterrorism) or by accident due to unrestricted imports, is causing some nations, notably New Zealand, to adopt relatively harsh restrictions against imported organisms. As one objective of asymmetric warfare is to cause attacks to appear initially as accidents, or blame slow responses on apparently incompetent governments, there is some concern that spreading a virulent organism among animals would be an effective way to attack humans, damage economies, and discredit governments who are lax on biosecurity. Technologies for scanning for dangerous organisms at ports and markets are also becoming more reliable and less expensive. However, no bio-defense solution seems to be able to compete with a simple reduction of import volumes, and its corresponding reduction in risk of any accidents.\n\nCritics of safe trade argue that the military and agriculture aspects of biosecurity are dissimilar, unlikely to converge in the form of an attack disguised as an accident, and require such differential prevention and response measures that there is little risk reduced in altering the fundamental structure of trade relationships to accommodate a robust regime of biosecurity. Such critics usually argue instead that emergency services' biodefense measures are sufficient to handle outbreaks of any diseases or alien organisms, and that such outbreaks are unlikely to be long sustained or deliberately masked as agricultural accidents. This, to the advocates, seems like wishful thinking.\n\nAdvocates point to the costs of emergency measures such as burning over one million cows suspected of having foot-and-mouth disease in the UK, smoke from which they calculated (based on dioxin levels) was to be expected to kill several hundred Britons from cancers in this generation. Safe trade, they argue, would have removed the need for any such measures, as vaccination of British beef cattle would have been possible (the burning was to prevent British exports of beef from being rejected by its trade partners, who would not have been able to tell vaccinated from infected beef), and the foot-and-mouth disease was not so dangerous to humans that it could have justified dooming so many fellow citizens to die of the dioxin-caused cancers. The burning, they argue, was justified only by bad trade rules that spread infection and advise dangerous cures that are worse than the ailment itself.\n\nAnother argument supporting safe trade rules is that there are links between primate extinction and deforestation in the regions where primates are abundant, i.e. the Amazon rainforest, African rainforest, and Sumatran rainforest. Fail to prevent devastating logging in these regions, advocates claim, and a Great Ape species will likely become extinct, causing a critical link to the human past to be permanently lost. Accordingly, preventing logs from these forests from reaching foreign markets has been a major focus of Greenpeace actions, especially in 2002.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50691605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50691605", "title": "Sisiʻuno Helu", "text": "Sisiʻuno Helu\n\nBorn and raised in the Kingdom of Tonga, Sisi’uno Helu (born 1972) has become the leading impresario of European opera within Polynesia. She holds a diploma in instrumental music from the University of Queensland's School of Music, awarded in 1993.\nIn her early 20s, she pioneered the performing arts division of ʻAtenisi Institute in Tonga; the institute’s university had, since its inception in 1975, adhered to a classical curriculum that focused on philosophy, literature, mathematics, and music. Helu’s division offered instruction in European opera as well as traditional Tongan \"faiva\".\n\nBetween 1996 and 2006, the division’s troupe toured the U.S. and Pacific. A typical presentation included two or three lavishly costumed excerpts from \"Aida, La Bohème, Carmen, Les Contes d'Hoffmann, Don Giovanni, Nabucco, La Traviata, Il Trovatore\", or \"Rigoletto\". The troupe would sing passages in the scored language with a slight Polynesian accent. The excerpts often followed choral selections from Bach, Handel, Mozart, or Purcell.\n\n‘Atenisi had been founded as a continuing education centre in 1963 by Helu’s father, Dr ‘Ilaisa Futa Helu (1934-2010), and eventually comprised a high school, university, and the performing arts division. In 2007, with a cavalcade of productions to her credit, Helu returned to Tonga to succeed her ailing father as institute director. On her father’s suggestion, she tapped former associate dean, U.S. sociologist Dr Michael Horowitz, as university dean. Working as a team, Helu and Horowitz have placed talented graduates in lucrative postgraduate fellowships in Europe, the U.S., and the Pacific.\n\nIn 2011 Helu launched a satellite performance centre in suburban Sydney, the Futa Helu Performing Arts and Culture Centre. Like its Tongan parent, the academy teaches European opera as well as traditional Tongan \"faiva\".\n\nConcurrent with her directorships in both Tonga and Australia, Helu has also taught instrumental music, music theory, and Polynesian dance … not only to students at ‘Atenisi’s university but to secondary school students on Tongatapu, who attend her classes on ‘Atenisi’s campus in late afternoon.\n\nAlong with Horowitz and her sister ‘Atolomake, Helu starred in an hour-long documentary about ‘Atenisi, \"Tongan Ark\", that was critically acclaimed at the New Zealand International Film Festival in 2012. Among other attractions, the documentary features snippets of past performances under Helu’s baton.\n\n"}
{"id": "50812385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50812385", "title": "Techsource", "text": "Techsource\n\nTechsource involves the automation, or conversion of a task or job from a manual task performed by a person, to a job performed entirely by machines. The concept of \"techsourcing\" has occurred across many industries for many years, however the phrase was coined by George Tosh, Principle Software Engineer for Salesforce in 2016. Techsourcing might include the use of robotics, or dedicated purpose-built machines to complete a task, but not always.\n\nA popular example of techsourcing is the ATM or “Automated Teller Machine”. The ATM performs many of the tasks that human bank tellers performed. It has allowed banks and other financial institutions to increase customer satisfaction through decreased wait times, but often at the cost of job opportunities for humans. Techsourcing usually occurs for jobs and roles that cannot be outsourced due to the specific nature of the job.\n\nIn 2015, and continuing into 2016, the push for a $15/hour minimum wage among many minimum wage earners has increased fears among economists that increasing the minimum wage will only lead to jobs being “techsourced”, automated, or eliminated entirely. It should be noted that minimum wage jobs are not the only jobs at risk for being techsourced. In Belgium two hospitals have employed robots as receptionists to offer directions and assist patients, jobs that previously would have been filled by humans.\n"}
{"id": "39349309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39349309", "title": "The Discipline of Market Leaders", "text": "The Discipline of Market Leaders\n\nThe Discipline of Market Leaders is a 1995 book written by Michael Treacy and Fred Wiersema and published by Addison-Wesley. The book discusses competitive business strategies. It made \"The New York Times\" Best Seller list after the authors placed orders for thousands of copies of their own book.\n\nThe core of the book is based on five years of research by the authors into companies such as Wal-Mart, Dell, Southwest Airlines, Cott, Airborne Express, Atlantic Richfield, Home Depot, Intel and Sony. It opens with several business questions, such as \"Why is it that Casio can sell a calculator more cheaply than Kellogg's can sell a box of corn flakes? Does corn cost that much more than silicon?\" The book raises questions about American business management and practices and then attempts to answer them. It also examines the financial benefits for companies that focus primarily on customer satisfaction rather than shareholder profits.\n\nThe book provides a business model based on three dimensions (called 'Value Disciplines\"):\nand postulates that any successful business needs to maintain at least \"acceptable\" levels of performance in each of the three dimensions but would need to choose one of them to become a market leader in its field. The model suggests that if you truly want to excel in any of the three disciplines you will have to make sacrifices in the other two as these become mutually exclusive. \n\nThe book debuted on \"The New York Times\" Best Seller Non-Fiction list on February 26, 1995, and remained on the list for 15 weeks, peaking at No. 4. The book also debuted at No. 1 on the \"Bloomberg Businessweek\" best-seller list on April 1. In 2012 it was reported to have sold over 250,000 copies.\n\nLois Weisberg stated the book \"Provides great insight into the linkage of product value, operating excellence and customer focus,\" and Dale Dauten also spoke highly of it.\n\nAn August 1995 article in \"Bloomberg Businessweek\" by Will Stern first alleged the authors had manipulated sales of their book. Treacy and Addison-Wesley denied trying to manipulate sales, though Stern states according to his sources the campaign was orchestrated by Treacy and carried out with the help of Wiersema, Addison-Wesley and CSC Index, an international consulting firm Treacy regularly consulted for. It was revealed that the names of the bookstores that would be used to gauge book sales for \"The New York Times\" Best Seller list had become known, and that orders for the book had been placed at those stores. Stern states he interviewed dozens of book store owners, including one who took a suspicious order for 125 copies of the book shortly after it was published. After also interviewing over 100 book industry representatives, Stern concludes the authors spent over $250,000 buying over 10,000 copies of their own book. The authors admitted to buying \"fewer than 10,000\" copies of the book for clients and prospective clients. Stern also states CSC Index was used to covertly purchase an additional 30,000 to 40,000 copies. He traced many purchases of the book to CSC employees and affiliates. Most CSC affiliates refused to comment on the issue; however, the President of Paragon Co, a database marketing firm in Oxford, Ohio, confirmed that CSC had reimbursed him for over 10,000 copies of the book that he ordered for his firm, costing over $200,000. It was reportedly boasted around the office at Paragon Co that the company was involved in a scheme to make the book a best-seller, and so many copies of the book arrived at the firm they were stored in a tractor trailer. An independent book store in Manhattan sold 2,500 copies of the book to a consulting firm in Chicago.\n\n\"The New York Times\" initially stated they were aware of the bulk book sales, and that they were confident the bulk sales had not increased the books position on the best-seller list. After reviewing the article in \"Bloomberg Businessweek\", however, the editor of \"The New York Times\" book review section stated it was possible that the result had been manipulated, but that the process \"would be so expensive that [they'd] have to have another reason for doing it beyond simply boosting book sales.\n\nIt is alleged the authors spent money on their own book in order to gain the benefits that are common from making \"The New York Times\" Best Seller list, such as speaking engagements and consulting opportunities, as well as further book sales, as chart success often begets more chart success. Treacy was said to be giving around 80 speeches a year, increasing his speaking fee from $25,000 to $30,000 after featuring on the best-seller list. While it is uncertain if the practice is illegal, the tactic has been described by publishers and booksellers as highly unethical. Following the incident \"The New York Times\" improved their methods for filtering bulk sales from affecting the list, and made a better effort to hide the names of stores that were reporting for them.\n"}
{"id": "25372471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25372471", "title": "Ugo Brachetti Peretti", "text": "Ugo Brachetti Peretti\n\nUgo Maria Brachetti Peretti (born July 8, 1965, Rome) is an Italian oil executive.\n\nHis father, Count Aldo Maria Brachetti Peretti, Cavaliere Del Lavoro was the head of the family group, Anonima Petroli Italiana (API) for thirty years, until his retirement in September 2007. The company was founded by his maternal grandfather Cavaliere Del Lavoro Ferdinando Peretti. His mother, Mila Peretti, is the \"National Inspectress\" of the Italian Red Cross, which she has served for over 30 years. She is the only woman in Italy to carry the military grade of General. \nIn 2005 Peretti married the Countess Isabella Borromeo Arese Taverna. They have three children: Angera (b. 2005), Ludovico (b. 2008) and a second son Federico (b. 2012).\n\nHe was educated at the American Community School in London where he graduated in 1983 with an international Baccalaureate degree and then qualified for a degree in Business Administration at the American University of Rome in 1987. He subsequently obtained his specialization at Boston University. He completed his military service as an officer of the Carabinieri. \nAfter 1990 he started working as a manager in the family business of which he and his brothers are 100% shareholders. During his time with API he has held many positions, at first operating the \"downstream cycle\" (a combination of activities such as deliveries, transportation, refining, sale and marketing of oil). In 2007, after a series of promotions, he became Chairman of the company. In this capacity, he focused the Group's activities back to the oil sector, with the strengthening of the distribution network and the improvement of the Falconara refinery. He holds several other chairs, vice-chairs and advisory positions within API as well as being a member of the boards at UniCredit, the Executive Council of the \"Rome Industrial Union\" and Unione Petrolifera.\n\n"}
{"id": "186626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=186626", "title": "William Rockefeller", "text": "William Rockefeller\n\nWilliam Avery Rockefeller, Jr. (May 31, 1841 – June 24, 1922) was an American businessman and financier. He was a co-founder of Standard Oil along with his older brother John Davison Rockefeller (1839–1937). He was also a prominent member of the Rockefeller family.\n\nWilliam Jr. was born in Richford, New York. He was the middle son of con artist William Avery Rockefeller Sr. (1810—1906) and Eliza Davison (1813—1889). In addition to elder brother John, William Jr.'s siblings were Lucy (1838—1878), Mary (1843—1925), and twins Franklin (Frank) (1845—1917) and Frances (1845—1847). He also had two elder half-sisters, Clorinda (c. 1838—?, died young) and Cornelia (c. 1840—?), through his father's affairs with mistress and housekeeper Nancy Brown. In 1853 his family moved to Strongsville, Ohio. As a young pupil in public school, he was inspired and motivated by his teacher-mentor, Rufus Osgood Mason, whom Rockefeller later named \"A Rockefeller Patron.\"\n\nWhen the newly formed Mutual Alliance Trust Company opened for business in New York on the Tuesday after June 29, 1902, there were 13 directors, including Emanuel Lehman and Rockefeller.\n\nIn 1865, Rockefeller entered the oil business by starting a refinery in Ohio. In 1867, his older brother John's firm, Rockefeller & Andrews, absorbed the refinery. In 1870, that company became Standard Oil.\n\nRockefeller was very adept in business matters. He served as the company's New York representative until 1911 when Standard Oil of New Jersey was split up by the United States Supreme Court. He also had interests in copper mining and processing, railways (which had expanded extensively in the late 19th and early 20th centuries), and public utilities, and built up the National City Bank of New York, now known as Citigroup.\n\nIn the late 1890s, Rockefeller joined fellow Standard Oil principal Henry H. Rogers in forming the Amalgamated Copper Mining Company, a holding company that intended to control the copper industry. Rockefeller, along with Henry Rogers, devised a scheme which earned them a profit of $36 million. First, they purchased Anaconda Properties from Marcus Daly for $39 million, with the understanding that the check was to be deposited in the bank and remain there for a definite time (National City Bank was run by Rockefeller's friends). Rogers and Rockefeller then set up a paper organization, known as the Amalgamated Copper Mining Company, with their own clerks as dummy directors, saying the company was worth $75 million.\n\nThey had Amalgamated Copper Company buy Anaconda from them for $75 million in capital stock, which was conveniently printed for the purpose. Then, they borrowed $39 million from the bank using Amalgamated Copper as collateral. They paid back Daly for Anaconda and sold $75 million worth of stock in Amalgamated Copper to the public. They paid back the bank's $39 million and had a profit of $36 million in cash.\n\nWith help from banker John Dennis Ryan, Amalgamated acquired two large competitors, and soon controlled all the mines of Butte, Montana. By the late 1920s it had become Anaconda Copper Company and was the fourth-largest company in the world.\n\nFrom 1912 to 1913, the Pujo Committee investigated Rockefeller and others for allegedly earning $30 million in profit through cornering the copper market and \"synchronizing with artificially enforced activity\" in Amalgamated Copper stock in the New York Stock Exchange.\n\nRockefeller married Almira Geraldine Goodsell (March 19, 1844 — January 17, 1920) on May 25, 1864 in Fairfield, Connecticut. There were many connections among this and other elite families. Her sister Esther Judson Goodsell was married to Oliver Burr Jennings, who became one of the original stockholders of Standard Oil. Together, William and Almira had:\nWilliam Rockefeller, Jr. died of pneumonia on June 24, 1922 in Tarrytown. He had caught a cold during a car trip he took with brother John and nephew John, Jr. to visit his childhood home in Richford, New York. He was interred in the Sleepy Hollow Cemetery, Sleepy Hollow, New York.\n\n\"The New York Times\", in discussing a trust that Rockefeller set up for his born and yet-to-be born great-grandchildren, stated that he \"left a gross estate of $102,000,000 which was reduced to $50,000,000 principally by $30,000,000 of debts and $18,600,000 of inheritance and estate taxes.\"\n\nRockefeller was a regular attendee of the Saint Mary's Episcopal Church in Scarborough in the last few years of his life.\n\nRockefeller and Almira's second son, William Goodsell Rockefeller, married Sarah Elizabeth \"Elsie\" Stillman, the elder daughter of James Jewett Stillman and Sarah Elizabeth Stillman; the father was National City Bank president. The new couple's family included James Stillman Rockefeller. He became a member of the Jekyll Island Club (aka The millionaires Club) on Jekyll Island, Georgia, along with J. P. Morgan, Joseph Pulitzer, and other business moguls of the day.\n\nIn 1886, Rockefeller bought property in Westchester County along the Hudson River from General Lloyd Aspinwall. He renovated or rebuilt the mansion Rockwood Hall.\n\nThe Rockefeller Cottage is a house on Jekyll Island, Georgia. It is also called \"Indian Mound\" and is next to the Jekyll Island Club. The house was built by Gordon McKay in 1892. McKay died in 1903 and the house was bought by William Rockefeller in 1905, who used it as a winter home. It was evacuated in 1942, along with the rest of the island. The house remained in the Rockefeller family until 1947, when the Jekyll Island Authority bought the property. It was open as a museum from 1950 until 1968, when it was closed for badly needed repairs. It is now a public museum.Decades later the former \"Indian Mound\" Cottage was listed on the National Register of Historic Places as Rockefeller Cottage.\n\n"}
{"id": "2807790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2807790", "title": "Work at home parent", "text": "Work at home parent\n\nA work at home parent is an entrepreneur who works from home and integrates parenting into his or her business activities. They are sometimes referred to as a WAHM (work at home mom) or a WAHD (work at home dad).\n\nEntrepreneurs choose to run businesses from home for a variety of reasons, including lower business expenses, personal health limitations, eliminating commuting, or in order to have a more flexible schedule. This flexibility can give an entrepreneur more options when planning tasks, business and non-business, including parenting duties. While some home-based entrepreneurs opt for childcare outside the home, others integrate child rearing into their work day and workspace. The latter are considered work-at-home parents.\n\nMany WAHPs start home-based businesses in order to care for their children while still creating income. The desire to care for one's own children, the incompatibility of a 9-to-5 work day with school hours or sick days, and the expense of childcare prompt many parents to change or leave their jobs in the workforce to be available to their children. Many WAHPs build a business schedule that can be integrated with their parenting duties.\n\nAn integration of parenting and business can take place in one or more of four key ways: combined uses of time, combined uses of space, normalizing children in business, and flexibility.\n\nCombining uses of time involves some level of multitasking, such as taking children on business errands, and the organized scheduling of business activities during child’s down times and vice versa. The WAHP combines uses of space by creating a home (or mobile) office that accommodates the child's presence.\n\nNormalizing acknowledges the child’s presence in the business environment. This can include letting key business partners know that parenting is a priority, establishing routines and rules for children in the office, and even having children help with business when appropriate.\n\nFinally, the WAHP can utilize the inherent flexibility of the work-at-home arrangement. This may mean working in smaller increments of time instead of long stretches, looser scheduling of the day’s activities to allow for the unexpected, and working at non-traditional times.\n\nA business that demands 9-to-5 business hours, a polished office, intense one-on-one time with clients, dangerous materials, or impromptu appointments may not work well for a parent with children at home. Thus, not all professions lend themselves to work-at-home parenting. Without good organization, the WAHP may experience decreased productivity due to added responsibilities and unexpected interruptions. Internet businesses or 'virtual assistants' are well-suited as work-at-home businesses.\n\nThe Center for Women's Business Research, a non-profit organization, found that Generation X mothers are the most likely to work from home. The center also reports that between 1997 and 2004, employment at female-owned companies grew by 24.2%, more than twice the rate of the 11.6% logged by all businesses.\n\nTypes of businesses that WAHPs may engage in include telecommuting for corporations, freelancing on project such as articles, graphic design or consulting, or working as an independent contractor, running home-party businesses, managing complete companies from home, and providing valuable business and marketing support.\n\nThe concept of the WAHP has been around for as long as small businesses have. In pre-industrial societies, merchants and artisans often worked out of or close to their homes. Children typically remained in the care of a parent during the day and were often present while the parents worked. Societal changes in the 1800s, such as compulsory education and the Industrial Revolution, made working from home with children around less common.\n\nEntrepreneurship saw a resurgence in the 1980s, with more of an emphasis on work-life balance. Among the long-traditional groups of WAHPs are those professionals in private practice with home offices such as physicians, therapists, music teachers and tutors. The term WAHP began gaining popularity in the late 1990s especially as the growth of the Internet allowed for small business owners and entrepreneurs to have greater options for starting and running their businesses. By 2004, over 20 million people worked at home at least part-time (either as business owners or in a formal arrangement with their employer), many of whom were parents. In 2008, a digital magazine was established by a WAHM with a decade of experience in the publications field specifically for work-at-home parents. The WAHM Magazine was designed to address the issues of the complete lifestyle of work-at-home parents regardless of field or industry, and has a mission to validate, empower, encourage, educate and support WAHPs in their personal, professional and lifestyle goals. And the end of the first decade of the 21st century, telecommuting is becoming a greater option for companies and employees alike for a variety of economic and environmental concerns.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4695206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4695206", "title": "Workforce Investment Board", "text": "Workforce Investment Board\n\nWorkforce Investment Boards (or \"WIBs\") were regional entities created to implement the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 in the United States, the Federated States of Micronesia, the Republic of Palau and the Republic of the Marshall Islands. The implementing law was replaced by the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act in 2014.\n\nEvery community in the fifty states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, Northern Mariana Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, Republic of the Marshall Islands, and Republic of Palau, was associated with a Local WIB (LWIB). For each LWIB, a chief elected official (for example, a county commissioner or the mayor of a lead city) appointed members to sit on the WIB. These appointed positions were unpaid. At least 50% of a WIB's membership was required to come from private businesses. There were also designated seats for representatives from labor unions and educational institutions like community colleges as well. Beyond these basic guidelines, many aspects of how an individual WIB operated could vary.\n\nThe WIB's main role was to direct federal, state and local funding to workforce development programs. WIBs conducted and published research on these programs and the needs of their regional economy. They also oversaw the One-Stop Career Centers, where job seekers could get employment information, find out about career development training opportunities and connect to various programs in their area. One-Stop Career Centers also provided many no-cost services to employers. Services varied by state and WIB.\n\nWIBs worked in conjunction with economic development related organizations to minimize the reaction time and create resources to intervene for both the dislocated workforce and the incumbent workforce members of a community.\n\n"}
{"id": "9269783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9269783", "title": "Ziya Bazhayev", "text": "Ziya Bazhayev\n\nZiya Bazhayev (July 11, 1960 - March 9, 2000) was a prominent Russian businessman of Chechen origin specializing in oil trading. He died in Moscow during a crash of a Yakovlev Yak-40 aircraft shortly after take off on March 9, 2000, together with a Russian journalist, Artyom Borovik.\n\nBazhayev's death is mentioned in many Nigerian 419 scam e-mails.\n"}
