{"id": "38310934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38310934", "title": "A. Ronald Butler", "text": "A. Ronald Butler\n\nArthur Ronald Butler (1916 – 7 November 2003) was a British philatelist who was President of the Royal Philatelic Society London from 1978 to 1980. He was a specialist in the stamps of Australia and in 1978 was awarded the Crawford Medal for his work \"The departmental stamps of South Australia\".\n\nIn 1975, at Leicester, Butler signed the Roll of Distinguished Philatelists.\n\nButler was an engineer by profession, first working for the toy manufacturers Lotts Bricks. During World War II he served in the Royal Air Force, and afterwards joined the Royal Aeronautical Establishment at Farnborough. At this time he was involved in investigating crashes of the Comet aircraft.\n\nIn 1968 Butler worked for the Decimal Currency Board where he was involved in designing the shape of the British 50p piece.\n\n"}
{"id": "57231305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57231305", "title": "Abdul Taleb Zaki", "text": "Abdul Taleb Zaki\n\nAbdul Taleb Zaki () was an ethnic Hazara politician and a jihadist from Afghanistan.\n\nAbdul Taleb Zaki, son of Abdul Wahid born in 1960 in Bamiyan Province of Afghanistan.\nHe is one of the jihadists of Hezbe Wahdat political party in Afghanistan.\nHe was the governor of Bamiyan Province for four years from 1994 to 1998. He died in 1998 in Ghazni Province.\n"}
{"id": "3410262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3410262", "title": "Alexander Kazantsev", "text": "Alexander Kazantsev\n\nAlexander Petrovitch Kazantsev (; 2 September 1906 – 13 September 2002) was a popular Soviet science fiction writer, ufologist and chess composer.\n\nBorn in Akmolinsk, Imperial Russia (modern Astana in Kazakhstan). He graduated from Tomsk Polytechnic University, and worked at the Soviet Research Institute of Electromechanics. Kazantsev was a member of the Soviet delegation at the 1939 New York World's Fair. When Germany invaded the Soviet Union in 1941, Kazantsev joined the army. He left military service in 1945 with the rank of colonel, and was awarded a number of orders, including Order of the Patriotic War and Order of the Red Star. From then on, Kazantsev settled in the \"literary village\" of Peredelkino and concentrated on his writings. He survived the dissolution of the Soviet Union and died in 2002.\n\nKazantsev was an enthusiast of the unknown, and a pioneer of Soviet UFOlogy. Many of his works, both fiction and non-fiction, deal with controversial parascientific (or pseudoscientific) theories.\n\nHe researched the Tunguska event and published a number of science fiction, as well as popular science books, on the topic. He believed the Tunguska impact was caused by an alien spacecraft that crash-landed on the Earth.\n\nKazantsev researched events and legends that he believed were evidences of paleocontacts with extraterrestrials. His novel \"Phaetae\" is based on the hypothetical planet Phaeton that some believe existed in the orbit of modern Asteroid belt. According to the novel, Phaeton was inhabited by a developed civilisation of the \"phaetae\" race, who survived the destruction of their planet and brought some of their culture to the prehistorical people of Earth.\n\nKazantsev was also interested in the Martian canal theory, and used it in his fiction concerning Mars.\n\nHe was also a composer of chess endgame studies. In 1975 he was awarded by the Permanent Commission of the FIDE for Chess Compositions (PCCC) the title of International Master of Composition.\n\nNote: of this list, only \"The Destruction of Faena\" (\"Faety\"), \"A Visitor From Outer Space\", and \"The Martian\" have been translated into English.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35431616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35431616", "title": "Allen Gee", "text": "Allen Gee\n\nAllen Gee (6 September 1852 – 12 August 1939) was a British trade unionist and politician.\n\nGee worked in the woollen industry in Huddersfield, and was involved in a major, but unsuccessful, strike in 1883. This experience inspired him to found what became the General Union of Textile Workers, with membership from the wider district. In 1885, he was elected as the first president of the Huddersfield Trades Council. He was a strong supporter of the Weavers' campaign for an eight-hour day, launched in 1886, and was involved in the Manningham Mills Strike. In 1888, he was elected as General Secretary of the West Yorkshire Power-Loom Weavers Association (later to become the Textile Workers), a position which he held until 1922.\n\nGee attended the founding conference of the Independent Labour Party. He was soon elected as an independent labour member of Huddersfield Town Council, although the Liberal Party attempted to claim that he was a supporter of their group. In 1900, he was elected to the first Executive of the Labour Representation Committee (LRC), and he was also appointed as one of the organisation's first trustees. He served as the second Chairman of the National Executive Committee, in 1901, although he did not chair the annual conference. From 1910 until 1912, he was chairman of the General Federation of Trade Unions, while at the 1918 general election, he stood unsuccessfully for the Labour Party in Blackpool.\n\nIn later life, Gee became a Justice of the Peace, and remained close to his fellow trade unionist Ben Turner. When the Huddersfield Trades Council celebrated its fiftieth anniversary, in 1935, Gee marched at the head of the celebratory parade.\n"}
{"id": "20198343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20198343", "title": "Ameen Faisal", "text": "Ameen Faisal\n\nAmeen Faisal is the current National Security Advisor and former Minister of Defence and National Security of the Republic of Maldives.\n\nHe is currently married to Aminath Mubarik. He has four children. He is the grandson of the first president of Maldives, Mohamed Ameen Didi. Faisal was born to the only daughter of Ameen Didi, Ameena Ameen. His father is Abdul Majeed Mahir. Faisal currently lives in Male', Maldives after living in Sri Lanka for over four years with his family.\n"}
{"id": "7045445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7045445", "title": "Andre Botha (cricketer)", "text": "Andre Botha (cricketer)\n\nAndre Cornelius Botha (born 12 September 1975) is a former Irish cricketer. He played 55 times in all for Ireland, including the 2005 ICC Trophy and the European Championship in 2004 and 2006. Botha retired in May 2011.\n\nA left-handed batsman and right-arm medium pace bowler, Botha played provincial cricket for Griqualand West in his native South Africa.\n\nBotha was the resident professional at Clontarf Cricket Club from 1994 until his switch to North County in 2000. A prolific batsman at club level, Botha contributed to North County's Irish Senior Cup victories in 2001, 2003,2005 and 2007 as well as garnering four consecutive Leinster Senior League winners' medals between 2003 and 2006.\n\nEsteemed among the leading all-rounders in domestic cricket, the newly-eligible Botha débuted for his adopted country in Ireland's August 2001 C&G Trophy victory over Wiltshire, although he started inauspiciously, registering nought with the bat and 1–50 with the ball.\n\nA fixture in the Irish team thereafter, Botha's form temporarily deserted him during Ireland's momentous summer of 2005. Selected at #3 in the batting order throughout the group phase of the 2005 ICC Trophy, Botha recorded a dismal average of 9.5 for the tournament, twice succumbing on zero. However, his economical bowling contributed eight wickets to the Irish cause, and helped the team (which ultimately finished second in the competition) land a qualifying berth for the 2007 Cricket World Cup.\n\nIn marked contrast to his ICC Trophy form, the runs flowed freely from Botha's bat during Ireland's conquest of the 2005 ICC Intercontinental Cup. A tournament average of 66.00 encompassed an international career-best 97 against the Netherlands at Stormont, and knocks of 78 and 43* in the final victory over Kenya at Windhoek. Botha also accounted for eight wickets at 25.50 with his medium-paced bowling during the course of the tournament.\n\nSelected for Ireland's inaugural One Day International against England at Stormont despite a series of low scores in the preceding C&G Trophy matches, Botha vindicated the selectors' judgement by top-scoring with 52 against a first-rate attack including Steve Harmison, Liam Plunkett and Sajid Mahmood. Since then, Botha has evinced a marked aptitude for One Day Internationals, averaging 39.66 in three ODIs to date, with a top score of 56 achieved against the Netherlands during Ireland's victorious 2006 European Cricket Championship campaign.\n\nIn August 2006, Botha was named in the 14 man squad which will represent Ireland at both the World Cricket League in Kenya and the Caribbean-hosted World Cup later the same year. He finished the provincial season with an insuperable batting average of 120.20 from ten innings.\n\nBotha bowled well in the World Cricket League tournament, taking 13 wickets at an average of 21.30. Only one player took more wickets in the tournament.\n\nIn Ireland's second match in the 2007 World Cup, Botha achieved excellent bowling figures of 8–4–5–2, helping Ireland to a shock victory over Pakistan.\n\nIn January 2010 Cricket Ireland, the governing body for cricket in Ireland, awarded Botha a full-time contract. He was one of six players awarded such contracts with Cricket Ireland, and came just a year after the first professional contracts were awarded to Ireland's cricketers. Before that players were amateurs relying on income from other jobs and playing cricket in their spare time. The contract allowed Botha and the others to focus on cricket, with the aim of improving ahead of the 2011 World Cup.\n\nBotha was selected in Ireland's 15-man squad for the 2011 World Cup. In May 2011, Botha announced his retirement from international cricket.\n\nBotha is only the fourth Irish player to have achieved the double of 2000 runs and 100 wickets. Botha has also taken part in two of Ireland’s record partnerships; 360 for the third wicket against UAE with Eoin Morgan in February 2007, and 234 for the sixth wicket against Scotland with Alex Cusack in August 2007. The 360 with Morgan is also Ireland’s highest partnership for any wicket. Botha’s 186 against Scotland in August 2007 was the highest individual score for Ireland in a home match.\n\nBotha's extraordinary figures of 2/5 of eight overs in the 2007 ICC Cricket World Cup pool match against Pakistan deserve mention; while taking only two wickets, the figures equalled the record for the most economical eight over spell in the history of the World Cup.\n\n"}
{"id": "357210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=357210", "title": "Andreas Papandreou", "text": "Andreas Papandreou\n\nAndreas Georgios Papandreou (, ; 5 February 1919 – 23 June 1996) was a Greek economist, a socialist politician and a dominant figure in Greek politics. The son of Georgios Papandreou, Andreas was a Harvard-trained academic. He served three terms as prime minister of Greece (21 October 1981 to 2 June 1985; 2 June 1985 to 2 July 1989; and 13 October 1993 to 22 January 1996).\n\nHis assumption of power in 1981 influenced the course of Greek political history, ending an almost 50-year-long system of power dominated by conservative forces. The achievements of his successive governments include the official recognition of communist resistance groups of the Greek Resistance against the Axis occupation, the establishment of the National Health System and the Supreme Council for Personnel Selection (ASEP), the passage of Law 1264/1982 which secured the right to strike and greatly improved the rights of workers, the constitutional amendment of 1985–1986 which strengthened parliamentarism and reduced the powers of the indirectly-elected president, the conduct of an assertive and independent Greek foreign policy, the expansion in the power of local governments, many progressive reforms in Greek law and the granting of permission to the refugees of the Greek Civil War, of Greek ethnicity, to return home in Greece.\n\nThe Panhellenic Socialist Movement (PASOK), which he founded and led, was the first non-communist political party in Greek history with a mass-based organization, introducing an unprecedented level of political and social participation in Greek society. In a poll conducted by Kathimerini in 2007, 48% of those polled called Papandreou the \"most important Greek Prime Minister\". In the same poll, the first four years of Papandreou's government after Metapolitefsi were voted as the best government Greece ever had.\n\nPapandreou was born on the island of Chios, Greece, the son of Zofia (Sofia) Mineyko (1883–1981) and the leading Greek liberal politician George Papandreou. His maternal grandfather was Polish-born public figure Zygmunt Mineyko, and his maternal grandmother was Greek. Before university, he attended Athens College a leading private school in Greece. He attended the National and Kapodistrian University of Athens from 1937 until 1938 when, during the authoritarian, right-leaning Metaxas dictatorship, he was arrested for purported Trotskyism. Following representations by his father, he was allowed to leave for the US.\n\nIn 1943, Papandreou received a PhD degree in economics from Harvard University. Immediately after getting his doctorate, Papandreou joined America's war effort and volunteered for the US Navy, serving as an examiner of models for repairing warships, and as a hospital corpsman at the Bethesda Naval Hospital for war wounded. He returned to Harvard in 1946 and served as a lecturer and associate professor until 1947. He then held professorships at the University of Minnesota, Northwestern University, the University of California, Berkeley (where he was chair of the Department of Economics), Stockholm University and York University in Toronto where he worked alongside long term advisor professor Christos Paraskevopoulos. In 1948, he entered into a relationship with University of Minnesota journalism student Margaret Chant, born in 1924, daughter of Douglas Chant and wife Hulda Pfund. After Chant obtained a divorce, and after his own divorce from Christina Rasia, his first wife, Papandreou and Chant were married in 1951. They had three sons and a daughter. Papandreou also had, with Swedish actress and TV presenter Ragna Nyblom, a daughter out of wedlock, Emilia Nyblom, who was born in 1969 in Sweden.\n\nPapandreou returned to Greece in 1959, where he headed an economic development research program, by invitation of Prime Minister Konstantinos Karamanlis. In 1960, he was appointed chairman of the board of directors, general director of the Athens Economic Research Center, and advisor to the Bank of Greece. In 1963, his father George Papandreou, head of the Center Union, became prime minister of Greece. Andreas became his chief economic advisor. He renounced his American citizenship and was elected to the Greek Parliament in the Greek legislative election, 1964. He immediately became Minister to the First Ministry of State (in effect, assistant Prime Minister).\n\nPapandreou took publicly a neutral stand on the Cold War and wished for Greece to be more independent from the United States. He also criticized the massive presence of American military and intelligence in Greece, and sought to remove senior officers with anti-democratic tendencies from the Greek military.\n\nIn 1965, while the \"Aspida\" conspiracy within the Hellenic Army, alleged by the political opposition to involve Andreas personally, was being investigated, George Papandreou moved to fire the defense minister and assume the post himself. Constantine II of Greece refused to endorse this move and essentially forced George Papandreou's resignation. Greece entered a period of political polarisation and instability which ended with the coup d'état of 21 April 1967.\n\nWhen the Greek colonels led by Georgios Papadopoulos seized power in April 1967, Andreas was incarcerated. Gust Avrakotos, a high- ranking CIA officer in Greece who was close to the colonels who led the coup, advised them to \"shoot the motherfucker because he's going to come back to haunt you\". His father George Papandreou was put under house arrest. George, already at advanced age, died in 1968. Under heavy pressure from American academics and intellectuals, such as John Kenneth Galbraith, a friend of Andreas since their Harvard days, the military regime released Andreas on condition that he leave the country. Papandreou then moved to Sweden with his wife, four children, and mother. There he accepted a post at Stockholm University. In Paris, while in exile, Andreas Papandreou formed an anti-dictatorship organization, the Panhellenic Liberation Movement (PAK), and toured the world rallying opposition to the Greek military regime. Despite his former American citizenship and academic career in the United States, Papandreou held the Central Intelligence Agency responsible for the 1967 coup and became increasingly critical of the federal government of the United States.\n\nIn the early 1970s, during the latter phase of the dictatorship in Greece, Papandreou, along with most leading Greek politicians in exile or in Greece, opposed the process of political normalisation attempted by Georgios Papadopoulos and his appointed PM, Spyros Markezinis. On 6 August 1974, Andreas Papandreou called an extraordinary meeting of the National Congress of PAK in Winterthur, Switzerland, which decided its dissolution without announcing it publicly.\n\nPapandreou returned to Greece after the fall of the junta in 1974, during metapolitefsi, and formed a new \"radical\" party, the Panhellenic Socialist Movement PASOK. Most of his former PAK companions, as well as members of other leftist groups such as the Democratic Defense joined in the new party. He also testified in the first of the Greek Junta Trials about the alleged involvement of the junta with the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA).\n\nIn the Greek legislative election, 1974, PASOK received only 13.5% of the vote, but in 1977 it polled 25%, and Papandreou became leader of the opposition.\n\nAt the Greek legislative election, 1981, PASOK won a landslide victory over the conservative New Democracy party, and Papandreou became Greece's first socialist prime minister. The party's main slogan was \"Allagi\" (change).\n\nIn office, Papandreou backtracked from much of his campaign rhetoric and followed a more conventional approach. Greece did not withdraw from NATO, United States troops and military bases were not ordered out of Greece, and Greek membership in the European Economic Community continued, largely because Papandreou proved very capable of securing monetary aid for Greece. In domestic affairs, Papandreou's government immediately carried out a massive programme of wealth redistribution upon coming into office that immediately increased the availability of entitlement aid to the unemployed and lower wage earners. Pensions, together with average wages and the minimum wage, were increased in real terms, and changes were made to labour laws which up until 1984 made it difficult for employers to make workers redundant. The impact of the PASOK Government's social and economic policies was such that it was estimated in 1988 that two-thirds of the decrease in inequality that occurred in Greece between 1974 and 1982 took place between 1981 and 1982.\n\nDuring its time in office, Papandreou's government carried through sweeping reforms of social policy by introducing a welfare state, significantly expanding welfare measures, expanding health care coverage (the \"National Health System\" was instituted, which made modern medical procedures available in rural areas for the first time,) promoting state-subsidized tourism for lower-income families, index-linking pensions, and funding social establishments for the elderly. Rural areas benefited from improved state services, the rights and income of low paid workers were considerably improved, and refugees from the Civil War living in exile were allowed to return with impunity.\n\nA more progressive taxation scheme was introduced and budgetary support for artistic and cultural programmes was increased. The government also introduced a wage indexation system which helped to close the gap modestly between the highest and lowest paid workers, while the share of GNP devoted to social welfare, social insurance, and health was significantly increased. Other major policy changes included the establishment of parental leave for both parents and child care centres, maternity allowances, community health centres, and the encouragement of women to join agricultural cooperatives as full members, an option which previously had not been open to women.\n\nAs part of Papandreou's \"Contract with the People,\" new liberalising laws were introduced which decriminalised adultery, abolished (in theory) the dowry system, eased the process for obtaining a divorce, and enhanced the legal status of women.\nIn 1984, for instance, women were guaranteed equal pay for equal work. Papandreou also introduced various reforms in the administration and curriculum of the Greek educational system, allowing students to participate in the election process for their professors and deans in the university, and abolishing tenure. The university system was expanded, with the number of students doubling between 1981 and 1986, while the system was reorganised to provide the departments with more power and permit greater participation in their management. The effect of these reforms was however, limited by poor research facilities, a shortage of qualified teaching staff, a lack of resources, and often inefficient administration.\n\nIn a move strongly opposed by the Church of Greece, Papandreou introduced, for the first time in Greece, the process of civil marriage. Prior to the institution of civil marriages in Greece, the only legally recognized marriages were those conducted in the Church of Greece. Couples seeking a civil marriage had to get married outside Greece, generally in Italy. Under PASOK, the Greek State also appropriated real estate properties previously owned by the Church.\n\nA major part of Papandreou's \"allagi\" (\"change\") involved driving out the \"old families\" (\"tzakia\". literally \"hearths\" using the traditional Greek expression for the genealogy of families), which dominated Greek politics and economy and belonged to the traditional Greek Right.\nPapandreou was comfortably re-elected in the Greek legislative election, 1985 with 46% of the vote, and won still further popularity in March 1987 by his strong leadership during a Greek-Turkish crisis in the Aegean Sea. However, from the summer of 1988, his premiership became increasingly clouded by controversy, as the Bank of Crete scandal exploded. In 1989, he divorced his wife Margaret Papandreou and married Dimitra Liani (Florina, 30 April 1955), without issue.\n\nThe same year he was indicted by the Hellenic Parliament in connection with a US$200 million Bank of Crete embezzlement scandal, and was accused of facilitating the embezzlement by ordering state corporations to transfer their holdings to the Bank of Crete, where the interest was allegedly skimmed off to benefit PASOK, and possibly some of its highest functionaries.\n\nFollowing the many repercussions of the so-called Koskotas scandal, the Greek legislative election, June 1989 elections produced a deadlock, leading to a prolonged political crisis. In the subsequent Greek legislative election, November 1989 Papandreou's PASOK's won 40% of the popular vote, compared to the rival New Democracy's 46%, and, due to changes made in electoral law one year before the elections by the then reigning PASOK administration, New Democracy was not able to form a government. The Greek legislative election, 1990 followed.\n\nIn the wake of three consecutive elections between 1989 and 1990, the New Democracy leader, Constantine Mitsotakis, eventually received sufficient support to form a government. In January 1992, Papandreou himself was cleared of any wrongdoing in the Koskotas scandal after a 7–6 vote in the specially convened High Court trial, ordered by the Hellenic Parliament, with the support of both main parties, New Democracy and PASOK. Since 1989, according to OTE official Christos Mavrikis, Papandreou discussions were recorded by him for the EYP, following orders of Konstantinos Mitsotakis.\n\nPapandreou confounded his critics by winning the Greek legislative election, 1993, and returned to power; In 1994 his government decided to apply an economic embargo to the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. In 1995, an interim accord was signed between the two countries.\n\nHowever, his fragile health kept him from exercising firm political leadership. He was hospitalized with advanced heart disease and renal failure on 21 November 1995 and finally retired from office on 16 January 1996. He died on 23 June 1996, with his funeral procession producing crowds, ranging from \"hundreds of thousands\" to \"millions\" to bid farewell to Andreas. In 1999, Papandreou was posthumously awarded the Swedish Order of the Polar Star.\n\nThe expenditure programme of the Papandreou government during 1981–1990 has been described as excessive by its conservative critics. The excessive expenditures were not accompanied by corresponding revenue increases and this led to increases in budget deficits and the public debt. Many economic indicators worsened during 1981–1990 and the economic policies of his government were condemned as a failure by his critics.\nOn the other hand, according to his supporters they were very successful, drastically increasing the purchasing power of the vast majority of Greeks, with personal incomes growing by 26% in real terms during the course of the 1980s. Papandreou's increased spending in his early years in power (1981–1985) was necessary in order to heal the deep wounds of the Greek society, a society that was still deeply divided by the brutal memories of the Civil War and the right-wing repression that followed; furthermore, the postwar government philosophy of the Greek conservatives simply saw the state as a tool of repression, with very little money spent on health and education.\n\nPapandreou was praised for conducting an independent and multidimensional foreign policy, and proved to be a master of the diplomatic game, thus increasing the importance of Greece in the international system. He was co-creator in 1982 of, and subsequently an active participant in, a movement promoted by the Parliamentarians for Global Action, the Initiative of the Six, which included, besides the Greek PM, Mexico's president Miguel de la Madrid, Argentina's president Raúl Alfonsín, Sweden's prime minister Olof Palme, Tanzania's president Julius Nyerere and India's prime minister Indira Gandhi. The movement's stated objective was the \"promotion of peace and progress for all mankind\". After various initiatives, mostly directed at pressuring the United States and the Soviet Union to stop nuclear testing and reduce the level of nuclear arms, it eventually disbanded.\n\nPapandreou's rhetoric was at times antagonistic to the United States. He was the first western prime minister to visit General Wojciech Jaruzelski in Poland. According to the Foreign Affairs magazine Papandreou went on record as saying that since the USSR is not a capitalist country \"one cannot label it an imperialist power.\" According to Papandreou, \"the Soviet Union represent[ed] a factor that restrict[ed] the expansion of capitalism and its imperialistic aims\". This antagonistic stance made him extremely popular, because the previous conservative governments were seen by the Greek people as slavishly loyal to US interests.\n\nPapandreou's government was the first in post-war Greece that redirected the nation's defense policy to suit its own security needs, and not those of the United States. According to historian Marion Sarafis, from 1947 until 1981, the US had more influence in Greece's military policy than the indigenous Greek high command, largely due to the decisive role played by the US in the Greek Civil War.\n\nPapandreou supported the causes of various national liberation movements in the world, and agreed for Greece to host representatives offices of many such organisations. He supported the cause of Palestinian liberation, met repeatedly with PLO chairman Yasser Arafat and condemned Israeli policies in the occupied territories.\n\nAmong both his supporters and his opponents, Papandreou was referred to simply by his first name, \"Andreas\", a unique situation in Greek political history, and a testament to his charisma and popularity. Andreas was also famous for wearing his business suits with turtleneck sweaters (Ζιβάγκο in Greek), instead of the traditional white shirt and tie; he thus created a huge fashion, mainly but not exclusively among his political supporters. His first appearance in the Greek Parliament with a black turtleneck instead of shirt and tie caused a massive uproar in the conservative press, who considered him disrespectful of Parliament; however, the whole issue only added to his popularity.\n\nPapandreou exercised a more independent foreign policy elevating Greece's profile among non-aligned nations. He affirmed Greece's independence in setting her own policy agenda, both internally and externally, free from any foreign domination.\n\nHis opponents on the left, on the other hand, including the Communist Party of Greece (KKE), accused him of supporting, in practice, the agenda of NATO and the United States.\n\nAndreas Papandreou is widely acknowledged as having shifted political power from the traditional conservative Greek Right, which had dominated Greek politics for decades, to a more populist and centre-left locus. This included the so-called pariahs in politics as of the end of the Greek Civil War, which were given a chance to prove themselves in democratically elected governments. This shift in the Greek political landscape helped heal some of the old civil war wounds; Greece became more pluralistic, and more in line with the political system of other western European countries. Papandreou also systematically pursued inclusionist politics which ended the sociopolitical and economic exclusion of many social classes in the post-civil war era.\n\nIt is also acknowledged that Papandreou, along with Karamanlis, played a leading role in establishing democracy in Greece during metapolitefsi. He is described as both prudent and a realist, despite his appearance as a leftist ideologue, and charismatic orator. His choices to remain in the European Union and NATO, both of which he vehemently opposed for many years, proved his pragmatic approach. Even his approach of negotiating the removal of the US bases from Greece was diplomatic, because although it was agreed to remove them, some of the bases remained. His skillful handling of these difficult policies had the effect of providing common policy goals to the political forces of Greece. Complementing this political realism, Andreas' ability to publicly say no to the Americans gave Greeks a sense of national independence and psychological self-worth.\nPerhaps his most important achievement was the establishment of political equality among Greeks; during his years in power the defeated left-wingers of the Civil War were no longer treated like second-class citizens and a vital part of national memory was reclaimed.\n\nPapandreou's successor in office, Costas Simitis, broke with a number of Papandreou's approaches.\n\nPapandreou's son, George Papandreou, was elected leader of PASOK in February 2004 and prime minister during the October 2009 general elections. A common slogan among PASOK followers in political rallies, invokes Andreas' legacy with the chant \"Andrea, zis! Esi mas odigis!\" (\"Andreas, you are still alive! You're leading us!\").\n\nIn two separate polls, conducted in 2007 and 2010, Andreas Papandreou was voted as the best prime minister of Greece since the restoration of democracy in 1974.\n\nUntil their divorce in 2000, Papandreou's daughter Sofia was married to the academic and politician Theodore Katsanevas. In Papandreou's will, he accused Katsanevas of being a \"disgrace to the family\" () \nand claimed that \"his aim was to politically inherit the history of struggle of Georgios Papandreou and Andreas Papandreou\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34237643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34237643", "title": "Anne Rasa", "text": "Anne Rasa\n\nOlwen Anne Elisabeth Rasa (born 1940 in Wales) is a British Ethologist, who rendered outstanding services to the knowledge of the social behavior of Dwarf mongoose.\n\nIn 1961 Anne Rasa graduated with Bachelor of Science (Hons.) from the Royal College of Science, Imperial College, London University. Subsequently, she received a NATO-scholarship to investigate the aggression of fish. In 1965 she graduated with Master of Science (M.Sc.) from the University of Hawaii.\n\nIn 1970 Anne Rasa received her Ph.D. from London University with a Max-Planck-Scholarship on coral reef fish aggression under Konrad Lorenz.\n\nFrom 1970-1974 she continued her work at the Max-Planck-Institut für Verhaltenspsychologie in Seewiesen under Konrad Lorenz. During this period she started her Dwarf mongoose studies, concentrating on social structure, marking behavior and intra-group aggression.\n\nFrom 1975-1981 Anne Rasa was scientific assistant at Marburg University, Germany. She focused on ontogeny of behavior in Dwarf mongoose and was awarded the Dr. habil. (Habilitation: qualified as a professor) in 1981.\n\nFrom 1981-1986 she was working with University of Bayreuth, Germany, with a Heisenberg-Scholarship to accomplished her field studies on Dwarf mongoose in the Taru Desert, Kenya. Anne Rasa published the results of her studies in the book \"Mongoose Watch: A Family Observed\" with a foreword by Konrad Lorenz. He compares the significance of her works with those of Jane Goodall and Dian Fossey. In 1984 the book with its results was presented by Bernhard Grzimek in the popular German TV-series \"Expedition ins Tierreich\" and was translated into several languages.\n\nFrom 1986-1991 Anne Rasa was Associate Professor at Pretoria University, South Africa, teaching ethology (lectures and practicals) and starting her studies on Yellow mongoose in the Kalahari Desert.\n\nIn 1991 she became Associate Professor at University of Bonn, Germany, where she was teaching ethology (lectures and practicals), too, and continuing her studies on Yellow mongoose and studies on the sub-social tenebrionid beetle \"Parastizopus armaticeps\". Anne Rasa retired from Bonn University at the end of 2000.\n\nAnne Rasa owns the Nature Reserve \"Kalahari Trails\" at the southern end of the Kalahari Desert in South Africa, which she bought a few years prior to her retirement. She lives there since December 2000 and offers accommodation and guided walks to everyone who is interested in the flora and fauna of the Kalahari.\n\nIn 2007 OSHANA published the book \"KALAHARI – Magnificent Desert\" with pictures and text by Anne Rasa.\n\nIn 2011/2012 Anne Rasa was working as a scientific advisor on a film series called \"Kalahari Trails\" which is being shot in the Kalahari.\n\nAnne Rasa has 3 children and 4 grandchildren.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45229750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45229750", "title": "Annet Nakawunde Mulindwa", "text": "Annet Nakawunde Mulindwa\n\nAnnet Nakawunde Mulindwa (née Annet Nakawunde, is a businesswoman and corporate executive in Uganda, the third-largest economy in the East African Community. She is the managing director and chief executive officer (CEO) of Finance Trust Bank, a financial service provider with assets valued at about US$41.5 million, as of 30 September 2014.\n\nShe was born in the Central Region of Uganda circa 1960s. She studied at local primary and secondary schools before she entered Makerere University, the oldest and largest public university in the country. She graduated from Makerere with a Bachelor of Arts degree. Later, she obtained a postgraduate diploma in financial management from the Uganda Management Institute (UMI) in Kampala. Still later, she obtained a Master of Business Administration in finance, also from UMI.\n\nIn the early 1990s, Mulindwa started out at Pride Microfinance Limited and later moved to Nile Bank Limited, before joining Finance Trust Bank. At Finance Trust, she has worked in different capacities, including: (a) operations and compliance manager and (b) head of operations. Over time, she was recognized for her leadership skills and was offered further training in leadership, management, and problem-solving. On 3 April 2012, she was appointed as managing director and CEO of what was still known as Uganda Finance Trust, a microfinance institution. When the Bank of Uganda granted the Finance Trust a full commercial banking license, Mulindwa became the second woman in the banking history of the country to rise to the rank of CEO at a commercial bank in Uganda, behind Edigold Monday. The new commercial bank was launched officially in January 2014.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8713477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8713477", "title": "Benjamin LaGuer", "text": "Benjamin LaGuer\n\nBenjamin LaGuer (born May 1, 1963) is a convicted rapist serving a life sentence in Massachusetts. He has not acknowledged the crime for which he was convicted, claiming innocence. His case achieved prominence in the late 1980s when reporting by John King discovered a juror who said that other members of the all-white-male jury uttered racist slurs before and during deliberations. His case became a flashpoint in the 2006 race for Massachusetts Governor when it was revealed that Deval Patrick, the Democratic candidate, had corresponded with and supported the inmate over a period of several years.\n\nLaGuer was born in The Bronx, New York and grew up in New York and Puerto Rico until age 15 when he moved to Leominster, Massachusetts to live with a half sister who was his father's daughter from a previous marriage. He attended high school in Leominster before dropping out in late 1980 to join the Army where he served in a support capacity in Germany. With a discharge from the Army, he returned to Leominster in June 1983. On the morning of July 13, 1983 police were summoned to his neighbor's apartment where they discovered a 59-year-old woman bound and beaten. It was quickly determined to be a rape case. Two days later, on July 15, 1983, LaGuer was charged with the crime. He proclaimed his innocence but was convicted in Worcester Superior Court the following January and given a life sentence with eligibility for parole after 15 years.\n\nSoon after starting his prison term LaGuer began studying in the law library and learned how to access the legal system on his own behalf and for other inmates. In 1991, a challenge LaGuer launched to his conviction two years earlier went all the way to the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court which rendered a landmark ruling in LaGuer's favor. At issue was whether an affidavit given by juror William Nowick that other members of the all-white-male panel made racist comments before and during deliberations constituted a violation of LaGuer's right to a fair trial. Even though the state's high court sided with LaGuer as a matter of law, it did not overturn the verdict, instead sending it back to the trial judge, Robert Mulkern, for a finding of fact. After a hearing in which some jurors were called to testify, Judge Mulkern ruled that the jury's deliberations were not tainted by racism. LaGuer exhausted his last appeal of that decision in 1994, more than ten years after his conviction.\n\nThe case became well known among activists, academics, and journalists, who came to believe strongly that LaGuer had suffered a gross miscarriage of justice. Starting in 1986, reporters who looked at the case found troubling questions about whether LaGuer in fact committed the crime. Among those who took an interest in the case and who corresponded with LaGuer were Nobel Peace Prize laureate Elie Wiesel, Pulitzer Prize winning author William Styron, Harvard University professor Henry Louis Gates Jr., Harvard Law School professor Charles Ogletree, and WBUR radio personality Jose Masso, who created the Benjamin LaGuer papers collection at Northeastern University. During that time LaGuer also earned a bachelor's degree magna cum laude from Boston University and won a first place International PEN award for an essay on his mother. In 1998, LaGuer was for the first time eligible for parole but was denied because he refused to admit to the crime. At that point he attracted an unlikely ally in Boston University president and 1990 Democratic candidate for governor of Massachusetts, John Silber, who helped arrange for pro bono legal representation. His team, which included members of McDermott, Will & Emery, the law firm William Weld, Silber's opponent in the governor's race, had belonged to, successfully sued the parole board and forced a second hearing at which LaGuer was again denied parole.\n\nHis legal team, led by law professor David Siegel, a founding member of the New England Innocence Project, then sought and found the physical evidence from the crime and in 1999 McDermott, Will & Emery managing partner Robert Cordy, now a member of the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, wrote to the Worcester District Attorney in an attempt to establish a protocol for DNA testing. The district attorney, John Conte, a former State Senator appointed by Governor Michael Dukakis in 1976 to finish an unexpired term, rebuffed Cordy, in turn intimating that LaGuer's team may have tampered with the evidence. After more than two years of contentious and costly litigation a DNA test revealed a trace amount of LaGuer's genetic material in the evidence. Several forensic DNA experts, including Applied DNA Resources principal Theodore Kessis, John Jay College of Criminal Justice Associate Provost Lawrence Kobilinsky and Harvard University geneticist Daniel Hartl, questioned the DNA test, and called for an investigation into its validity.\n\nLaGuer continued to maintain his innocence and attracted the pro bono services of another high powered international law firm, Goodwin Procter, where James C. Rehnquist, a partner at the firm and son of then U.S. Supreme Court Chief Justice William Rehnquist, took over LaGuer's case. In February 2004, Rehnquist filed a motion for a new trial in Worcester, Massachusetts Superior Court seeking a new trial on the basis of a Massachusetts State Police report generated the day LaGuer was arrested showing that four fingerprints found on the base of the trimline telephone, the cord of which was used to bind the victim's wrists, did not match the defendant's. This revelation prompted concern from several lawmakers, including State Senator Jarrett Barrios, who made a written inquiry to the State Police crime lab. Rehnquist's position that the suppression of potentially exculpatory evidence (revealed in November 2001, almost 18 years after the trial) constituted a violation of LaGuer's right to a fair trial, was rejected by Worcester Superior Court Judge Timothy Hillman. Rehnquist appealed the decision where he was again denied. In June 2006, the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court agreed to hear the case. On March 23, 2007, the Supreme Judicial Court unanimously upheld LaGuer's conviction.\n\nIn 2006, the LaGuer case became a dominant issue in the race between Republican Lieutenant Governor Kerry Healey and Democrat Deval Patrick Massachusetts gubernatorial election, 2006 when it was revealed that Patrick had petitioned the parole board in 1998 and 2000 for LaGuer's freedom and had contributed financially to the DNA testing. In his letters to the parole board Patrick characterized LaGuer as \"thoughtful and eloquent.\" He was criticized in two widely used television ads, considered by some analysts to be among the most negative in the 2006 campaign season. In one ad featuring a woman walking alone in a parking garage, the narrator asks, \"have you ever heard a woman compliment a rapist?\" The ad was widely perceived as backfiring on Healey because of its negative tone. Patrick ultimately won the race by a margin of more than 20 percentage points.\n\nThe Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court heard LaGuer's appeal on January 4, 2007 and a ruling was rendered on March 23, 2007. The SJC unanimously upheld LaGuer's conviction. Soon after the decision a former caretaker to the victim stepped forward with new information about the victim's state of mind before and after the crime which raised previously unknown questions about the reliability of her identification. In March 2009, retired Superior Court Judge Isaac Borentstein took the case.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2445840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2445840", "title": "Christophe Antoine Gerle", "text": "Christophe Antoine Gerle\n\nChristophe Antoine Gerle (1736-c. 1801), French revolutionist and mystic, was born at Riom in Auvergne.\n\nEntering the Carthusian order early in life, he became prior of Laval-Dieu in Perche, and afterwards of Pont-Sainte-Marie at Moulins. Elected deputy to the states-general in 1789, Gerle became very popular, and though he had no seat in the assembly until after the Tennis Court Oath, being only deputy suppleant, he is represented in David's classic painting as taking part in it. In 1792 he was chosen elector of Paris.\n\nIn the revolutionary turmoil Gerle developed a strong vein of mysticism, mingled with ideas of reform, and in June 1790 the prophetic powers of Suzanne Labrousse (1747-1821), a visionary who had predicted the Revolution ten years before, were brought by him to the notice of the Convention. In Paris, where he lived first with a spiritualistic doctor and afterwards, like Robespierre, at the house of a cabinet-maker, his mystical tendencies were strengthened.\n\nThe ideas of Catherine Théot—a convent servant turned prophetess—who proclaimed herself the Virgin, the \"Mother of God\" and the \"new Eve,\" were eminently attractive to Gerle; in the person of Robespierre he recognized the Messiah, and at the meetings of the Théotists he officiated with the aged prophetess as co-president. But the activities of Catherine and her adepts were short-lived.\n\nThe Théotists' cult of Robespierre was a weapon in the hands of his opponents; and shortly after the festival of the Supreme Being, Vadier made a report to the Convention calling for the prosecution of Catherine, Gerle and others as fanatics and conspirators. They were arrested, thrown into prison and, in the confusion of Robespierre's fall, apparently forgotten.\n\nCatherine died in prison, but Gerle, released by the Directory, became one of the editors of the \"Messager du soir\", and was afterwards in the office of Pierre Bénézech (1775-1802), minister of the interior. Having renounced his monastic vows in Paris, he is thought to have married, towards the close of his life, Christine Raffet, aunt of the artist Denis Raffet. The date of his death is uncertain.\n"}
{"id": "24489843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24489843", "title": "Clive Farahar", "text": "Clive Farahar\n\nClive Farahar (born 1950) is a British dealer and expert on books and manuscripts. He is best known as an expert on the BBC's \"Antiques Roadshow\", which he joined in 1986. \n\nThe son of Robert, a geologist and Joan (née Hutchins) Farahar, Clive Farahar attended Westminster Abbey Choir School. He joined Francis Edwards Ltd, a bookdealer in London's Marylebone High Street on leaving school in 1969. Joining the travel department he spent his first month in the bookshop dusting the shelves in order to become acquainted with the stock. \n\nIn 1972 Farahar joined the staff of a bookshop in Culham, between Abingdon and Oxford, before becoming a market trader at Bath Antiques Market where he sold books during the week and worked as a wine waiter at weekends in order to make ends meet. In the summer of 1976 he met his wife, Sophie Dupré, the manuscript specialist, and in 1979 he became a partner in Francis Edwards in London where he took responsibility for a new book investment scheme. However, the venture failed and the receivers were called in. The new owner of Francis Edwards invited Farahar back as manager but when the business moved to Hay-on-Wye in order to reduce costs Farahar decided to leave and set up his own antiquarian travel book business. He and his family had moved to their home in Calne in Wiltshire in 1980 where Sophie had already set up her autograph and manuscript business.\n\nTheir daughter, Emily Farahar, a keen artist and photographer who had been hoping to start a degree in Fine Art, died in 2001 aged 21 from an overdose of heroin following years of mental illness.\n\nClive Farahar writes and lectures and is a member of the Antiquarian Booksellers Association. He became an expert on the BBC's \"Antiques Roadshow\" programme in 1986. In 2003, when the \"Antiques Roadshow\" visited Dumfries in Scotland, Farahar identified a collection of 23 drawings and watercolours as the work of Beatrix Potter. He valued the collection at £250,000.\n\n"}
{"id": "56219722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56219722", "title": "Darryl W. Perry", "text": "Darryl W. Perry\n\nDarryl W. Perry (born February 7, 1978) is an American activist, author, radio host and politician. \n\nDaryl W. Perry was born and raised in Birmingham, Alabama, and the surrounding area, graduating from Hewitt-Trussville High School in 1996.\n\nDarryl attended Jefferson State Community College on a scholarship with the Speech Team (Forensics Team), and later on a Management Scholarship with WJSR-FM, the college radio station. Darryl was station manager from the summer of 1997 until he graduated in 1998.\n\nHe hosts the daily newscast FPPradioNews, the podcast Peace, Love, Liberty Radio, the weekly news podcast FPP Freedom Minute, and is a regular co-host on Free Talk Live. \n\nPerry is a co-founder of the New Hampshire Liberty Party, and was on the National Committee of the Boston Tea Party from 2008-2012, twice serving as chair. Perry later sought the 2016 Libertarian Party presidential nomination on a platform as the only \"real\" Libertarian running. To fund his candidacy, Perry accepted donations only in valuables not sanctioned by a government, such as encrypted electronic currencies or non-coin metals. \n\nAfter the Libertarian Convention and the nomination of Gary Johnson, he voiced concerns over Johnson's vice presidential nominee Bill Weld, citing the failure of the Reform Party as evidence that The Libertarian Party needed a more consistent message and suggesting Will Coley or Larry Sharpe as more suitable running mates. He confronted Weld before the nomination. After the convention he announced a limited write-in campaign in 17 states. He received either 5 or 3 votes overall.\n\nPerry is considered a \"hard-core\" libertarian, who expressed dismay that Gary Johnson won the Libertarian's 2016 Presidential nomination. He supports the decriminalization of recreational drugs, stating they \"should be as legal as tomatoes.\" He supports a non-interventionist foreign policy. Perry has an anarcho-capitalist platform, calling the United States Government \"the world's biggest terrorist organization\" and advocates abolishing the United States Government.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9109946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9109946", "title": "Drauzin Angelle", "text": "Drauzin Angelle\n\nDrauzin Angelle (December 25, 1871 – December 19, 1958) was an American farmer and a politician from St. Martin Parish in south U.S. state of Louisiana. As the chief deputy sheriff from 1924 until his death, Angelle became a Democratic power broker in his largely rural sugar-producing parish.\n\nBorn in the Fifth Ward of St. Martin Parish to Jean-Baptiste Angelle and the former Arthemise Dupuis (pronounced DEW PWEE), he was twice married. With the former Aminth Guidry, he had a daughter, Mozella. He then wed the former Agnes Guidry Dupuis on March 27, 1894, and they had eight children.\n\nTheir only son was Robert Joseph \"Bob\" Angelle, who would serve in the 1920s as mayor of Breaux Bridge in St. Martin Parish and thereafter in the Louisiana House of Representatives from 1934-1964. Bob Angelle was also the Speaker of the Louisiana House of Representatives from 1957-1960. One of their seven daughters, Agnes A. Hardy, a schoolteacher and principal from Cecilia, was the mother of future Lieutenant Governor of Louisiana Paul Hardy, the first Republican to hold the second-ranking post in state government, having served from 1988 to 1992. Lieutenant Governor Paul Hardy was hence a grandson of Drauzin Angelle and a nephew of Speaker Bob Angelle. Hardy's brother, Florent Hardy, Jr., Ph.D., has served as Louisiana's State Archivist since 2000.\n\nDrauzin Angelle's only elected position was as a constable of the Fifth Ward, a position that he held from 1914 to 1924, when he became the chief deputy under Sheriff Wade O. Martin, Sr., and continued in that capacity after Martin was elected in 1932 to the Louisiana Public Service Commission. Angelle hence remained chief deputy under a number of sheriffs. The sheriffs ran for reelection every four years along with the governor's race, but Angelle as the power behind the sheriff remained chief deputy throughout three decades. Angelle was known as the organizer of \"The Old Faction\" and the \"Father of the Fifth Ward\".\n\nAngelle was tied to the Long faction of Louisiana politics, as was Sheriff Martin. However, in the late 1950s, following the death of Wade O. Martin, Sr., Wade O. Martin, Jr., the Louisiana Secretary of State, quarreled with Governor Earl Kemp Long, who obtained legislative passage of bills to strip Martin, Jr., of much of the jurisdiction of his office. Drauzin Angelle died during the time of this Long-Martin rivalry. Later, Wade O. Martin, Jr., like Paul Hardy, switched his partisan affiliation from Democrat to Republican.\n\nAngelle is interred at St. Joseph Catholic Cemetery in Cecilia, a town in northern St. Martin Parish.\n"}
{"id": "13068141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13068141", "title": "Dvar", "text": "Dvar\n\nDvar is an anonymous virtual band from Russia that plays darkwave and electronic music. The first Dvar album was released in 1995, and the last in 2012.\n\nThe members of Dvar have kept their identities secret, therefore very little is known about their formation. In an interview, they stated, \"Dvar is something that came in a dream.\" Band members claim to have heard music in their dreams, presented to them by a being named Dvar. In several interviews the band has insisted that all of their music is directly inspired by the Dvar being, with the band serving as mere messengers. Some fans have claimed that the Dvar being took on the shape of a giant bee, based on the recurring theme of bees in their album artwork. They stated in an interview, when asked what they think about Kabbalah learnings, that they know Dvar is 211. In Hebrew, \"Dvar\" means \"Word of...\" or \"thing\".\n\nThe vocals which accompany Dvar's music use what appears to be a constructed language, which displays a sound pattern that is somewhat reminiscent of ancient Semitic languages. Due to this similarity, many followers of the band claim that the \"lyrics\" are sung in the occult Enochian language. However, the band has given no clues as to the nature of their invented language, except to say that, like the music, the vocals merely relate the message of the Dvar being.\n\nTheir first known work was a 1998 self-released tape called \"Raii\", though rumors have circulated of an earlier self-released tape from 1995, simply named \"DVAR\". In 2000, the duo issued a self-released 4-track CD-R demo called \"Taai Liira\". In 2002, the band released their first album on the Italian S.P.K.R/Radio Luxor record label, called \"Piirrah\". In 2003, Dvar moved to the Russian label Irond and released five albums: \"Roach\" (2003), \"Rakhilim\" (2004), a 2004 re-release of \"Taai Liira\" with bonus tracks, \"Hor Hor\" (2005) and \"Oramah Maalhur\" (2005). The album \"Madegirah – Early Works\" was announced in 2005, but not be released until 2009. In 2007, the band moved to the label Gravitator and released \"Jraah Mraah\". Their song \"Teremiah K'ruun\" was used in an Alfa-Bank 2007 New Year commercial. In 2008, the band released \"Zii\" under the label Art Music Group. In 2009, \"Fayah!\" was released, a dark counterpart to \"Zii\", along with a release of Madegirah, now entitled \"Madegirah – Bizarre Rares and Early Works\". In mid-2010, their tenth anniversary album, \"El Mariil\" was released, with an unusual medieval sound. A new album \"Deii\" was released in Russian magazine \"Мир Фантастики\" (English: \"Mir Fantastiki\" \"World of Sci-Fi\") in mp3 320 kb/s format. Physical copies of the album were released in December 2012 on Shadowplay Records. The release consists of two parts (two 16-track CDs) in Digipack format.\n\nThe band has an idiosyncratic style combining electronic music with screeching and bird-like vocals. The lyrics, according to the band, are written in the Enochian language, though they claim that they do not understand most of what is told to them by the creature Dvar. The band's record label has attempted to distance the band from the \"darkwave\" label through inclusion in a series of compilations entitled \"Highlights of Lightwave\".\n\nThe artist E.O.M.†.A.K.E.K made an album titled \"A Tribute to Dvar\". Russian group Draw has released three albums with covers very similar to those of Dvar, believed to be either a tribute to Dvar or a mockery of Dvar. Dvar's vocals have appeared in some of Caprice's songs, mainly \"Kywitt Kywitt\" and \"Fae Fae Fae Fae Fae Fae Fae\".\n\nDvar has kept their identities secret, including their hometown, their ages, or exactly how many band members there are. However, Dvar is presumed to be a duo. This has led to many impostors claiming that they either are Dvar or know the identities of the band members. One rumor claimed that Dvar was Michael Jackson's secret project, and that Dvar's members are patients in a mental institution. The band itself claims that Dvar is something \"supernatural\" that is delivered through them to share with the world.\n\n\nCompilations that the band appeared on:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22279587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22279587", "title": "Edmond Wilhelm Brillant", "text": "Edmond Wilhelm Brillant\n\nEdmond Wilhelm Brillant the Levi (; 1916–2004) was a Polish-born Israeli naval architect, Hagana member, among the founding fathers of the Israeli navy and was notable for assisting the Israeli Merchant Marine in several major projects, including the nations' first passenger liner, through the ZIM Navigation company, now Zim Integrated Shipping Services. He dedicated his greatest efforts to building up the young states' maritime capability, both civil and military. Brillant was born in Jaroslaw Galicia, Poland, and was the youngest of the four sons of the famous pharmacist Wiktor Brillant and his wife Laura Brillant (née Sturmlauf).\n\nBrillant was a flight amateur and joined the gliding club of Jaroslaw at the age of 13. There he studied building gliders, aircraft, gliding and flight.\n\nBrillant graduated from the August Witkowski Gymnasium (high school) in Jaroslaw in 1934, and started his MD studies. However, since he had a strong technical aptitude, Brillant started learning precision mechanics in Lviv. He immigrated to Israel (then Palestine) in 1936 on board of from Port of Constanţa with a Hebrew Technion Certificate, and resided in Haifa.\n\nBrillant started his mechanical engineering studies in the Hebrew Technion, and in 1937 he joined the Hagana Flight Club in “Kfar Yeladim” at Jezreel Valley as an instructor. The Kfar Yeladim flight club was the early seed of the Hagana for creating an air-arm, later became the Israeli Air-Force, under the guise of a gliding club. In 1938, he volunteered in the Palestine Police Railway Department (PPRD) of the Hagana Ghaffirs of the Jewish Supernumerary Police, and escorted trains from Zemach at the Sea of Galilee to Port Said, Egypt. During service in the PPRD, he was wounded when his train was damaged by a mine placed by terrorists during the Arab rebellion of 1936-1939. He discharged himself from hospital and returned to his company.\n\nAs World War II started, Brillant wanted to volunteer to join the Buffs, but had typhoid and instead joined the Royal Navy as Chief Petty Officer in role of Engine Room Artificer (ERA) in 1942. Brillant was among the Jewish Hagana Volunteers to the Royal Navy, and served there till March 1946.\n\nBrillant served in the Red-Sea Theater aboard HMS Massawa at Eritrea and other naval bases. Prior the takeover of Masawa by the Allies, the base was an Axis stronghold of the Regia Marina (the then Italian Navy). It was a bay which served as a harbor and shipyard with docking, thus was a strategic port for the Indian Ocean.\n\nAs the Italians started to retreat, they scuttled their ships. Salvage work was done by the United States Navy's Jewish Navy Officer, Commander Edward Ellsberg. His team was replaced later on by the Royal Navy. There, Brillant started to learn salvage work, shallow water diving, diesel engines and other naval professions that assisted him later on in his Israeli Navy career.\n\nDuring Brillant's service in HMS Massawa became a pilot’s duties volunteer. Brillant's commanding officers at HMS Massawa recommended him to be commissioned and assisted him to reach aviator trainings of the RN Fleet Air Arm (FAA) in 1944. His pilot duties were disallowed, since the Ministry of Colonies did not allow access to aviation training for Jewish volunteers from Palestine. In his file, it was written that Brillant's engineering skills were of 'great importance' to the Navy.\n\nEven though Brillant was disqualified from Royal Navy pilot duties, he continued serving and did not answer the U.S. Navy requests to join them as an officer.\n\nAfter his release from the Navy, he returned to the Hagana and joined the Israel Defense Forces (IDF) Naval Forces.\n\nBrillant joined the Hagana Harbor Platoon, which later on became the Flotilla 13 Navy commando unit, and took part in several of their operations. During this time, Brillant took part in converting the clandestine immigration ships of Hagana into first improvised Israeli Navy ships for the War of Independence. This work was camouflaged since the British Mandate only left Haifa harbor in June 1948.\n\nBrillant founded the damage control branch and the special salvage unit and special under water operations called YALTAM. He established the damage control floating fighting, and fire fighting training that each navy officer and sailor has to pass.\n\nBrillant served as a naval Staff (military) officer, and during his service he was the operational planner of the 1956 sea battle in which the Egyptian destroyer Ibrahim el Awal was captured.\n\nHe analyzed the air attack and navy operation of both the French and Israelis, and his report was submitted to Lt General Moshe Dayan as well as the French military staff.\n\nBrillant also improved the conversion time of reserve fishing boats to patrol boats from 3 days into few hours.\n\nBrillant was borrowed from the Navy by ZIM in order to lead three projects of merchant marine ship building. \nHe moved to France, and led the project in Chantiers de l'Atlantique. This ship was the largest passenger ship of ZIM and was the flagship. After then, he moved to Toulon to manage the building of three freight ships: \"Keshet\" (Bow), \"Noga\" (Venus) and \"Mazal\" (Luck).\n\nIn 1963, Brillant asked the IDF attaché in Paris for permission to retire from the Navy, even though they requested him to continue his service for the vital naval operation known as the Cherbourg Project.\n\nIn 1969, while he was a technical superintendent in ZIM Europe lines, Brillant organised and led the logistic and technical effort behind the fueling of the 5 Sa'ar 3 class missile boats that escaped Cherbourg Harbour in operation Noah. The fuelling- freight ships that were modified by him were MV \"Lea\" to fuel in Gibraltar and MV \"Nahariyah\" as a backup in the Bay of Biscay.\n\n"}
{"id": "4261079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4261079", "title": "Emmanuel Habyarimana", "text": "Emmanuel Habyarimana\n\nEmmanuel Habyarimana is a former Rwandan soldier and politician.\n\nHabyarimana, an ethnic Hutu, was a former member of the Rwandan Armed Forces in the Hutu-dominated state of Juvénal Habyarimana. Following the successful conquest of Rwanda by the RPF, he joined the newly constituted Rwandan Defence Forces and held the rank of colonel.\n\nIn 1997 he was made Minister of State for Defence in the Rwandan government. In 2000, he became Rwanda's Minister of Defence, and was later sometime afterwards promoted to Brigadier-General. While serving in this position he played a significant part in Rwanda's actions in the Second Congo War.\nIn November 2002 he was removed from his post as Minister of Defence, which government spokesperson Joseph Bideri attributed to his \"extreme pro-Hutu\" views. He was replaced by Marcel Gatsinzi.\n\nOn March 30, 2003 he defected to Uganda along with several other Rwandan army officers, including Lieutenant Ndayambaje\nand Lieutenant Colonel Balthazar Ndengeyinka.\n"}
{"id": "41449516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41449516", "title": "François-Xavier Pagé", "text": "François-Xavier Pagé\n\nFrançois-Xavier Pagé (May 30, 1833 – February 24, 1912) was a farmer and political figure in Manitoba. He was a member of the Convention of Forty and served in the Legislative Assembly of Assiniboia.\n\nThe son of Joseph Pagé and Agathe Letendré, he was born in St. François Xavier, Manitoba. He married Philomène Lavallée. Pagé was arrested in August 1870 while scouting for the Métis during the arrival of the Red River Expeditionary Force.\n\nHe died in St. François Xavier at the age of 78.\n\nHis brother Alexandre was also a member of the Convention of Forty.\n"}
{"id": "14270466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14270466", "title": "Gautam Adani", "text": "Gautam Adani\n\nGautam Shantilal Adani (born 24 June 1962) is an Indian industrialist who is the chairman and founder of the Adani Group -- an Ahmedabad-based multinational conglomerate involved in port development and operatorions in India. Adani is the president of the Adani Foundation, which is primarily led by his wife, Priti Adani.\nHe founded the Adani Group in 1988 and diversified his business into resources, logistics, energy, agriculture, defence and aerospace, amongst others.\nAccording to \"Forbes\", his net worth is estimated to be around $8.7 billion as of August 2018. He has a 66% stake in Adani Ports & SEZ Limited, 75% stake in Adani Enterprises, 73% stake in Adani Power, 75% stake in Adani Transmission. In 2017, he was ranked as the 4th most powerful person in India by India Today.\n\nGautam Adani was born on 24 June 1962 in a Bania family to Shantilal and Shanti Adani in Ahmedabad, Gujarat. He had 7 siblings and his parents had migrated from the town of Tharad in the northern part of Gujarat. His father was a textile merchant. \nHe was educated at Sheth Chimanlal Nagindas Vidyalaya school in Ahmedabad. He enrolled in a bachelor's degree in commerce at Gujarat University, but dropped out after the second year. Adani was keen on business, but not his father's textile business.\nIn 1978, as a teenager, Adani moved to Mumbai to work as a diamond sorter for Mahendra Brothers. He worked there for 2-3 years before establishing his own diamond brokerage firm at Zaveri Bazaar, Mumbai.\nIn 1981, his elder brother Mansukhbhai Adani bought a plastics unit in Ahmedabad and invited him to manage the operations. This venture turned out to be Adani's gateway to global trading through polyvinyl chloride (PVC) imports.\nIn 1985, he started importing primary polymers for small scale industries. In 1988, Adani established Adani Exports Limited, now known as Adani Enterprises Limited - the holding company of the Adani Group. Originally, the company dealt in agricultural and power commodities.\n\nIn 1991, the economic liberalization policies turned out to be favorable for his company and he started expanding the businesses into trading of metals, textiles, and agro products.\nIn 1993, the Government of Gujarat announced managerial outsourcing of the Mundra Port and in 1995, Adani got the contract.\n\nIn 1995, he set up the first jetty. Originally operated by Mundra Port & Special Economic Zone, the operations were transferred to Adani Ports & SEZ Limited (APSEZ). Today, the company is the largest private multi-port operator. Mundra Port is the largest private sector port in India, with the capacity of handling close to 210 million tons of cargo per annum.\nIn 1996, the power business arm of the Adani Group – Adani Power Limited was founded by Adani. Adani Power holds thermal power plants with a capacity of 4620 MW, the largest private thermal power producer of the country.\nIn 2006, Adani entered the Power generation business. From 2009 to 2012, he acquired Carmichael Coal in Queensland and Abbot Point Port in Australia.\n\nAdani is married to Priti Adani. He likes to read, especially books by Robin Sharma. \n\nAdani is the president of the Adani Foundation,\n\n\nDuring the time of 2014 Loksabha elections of India, Adani was accused of various controversies. He was being accused of supporting Narendra Modi for his campaign in Bharatiya Janata Party. Even though claiming on national media that he has no special favors with Modi, Modi was seen traveling on Adani group's chartered planes to rallies across India. To counter this allegation, Adani spoke out in an interview with CNBC and clarified that the BJP paid market price to Adani Group for using its aviation services.\nIt was alleged that the NDA government was favouring Adani by allegedly waiving Rs. 200 crore fine on Adani Port and SEZ. Adani, later, in an interview clarified the fine has not been dropped and the government is not favouring Adani either. He further clarified that the mine is owned by Rajasthan Government, and Adani Group is just the mine contractor.\n"}
{"id": "1187384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1187384", "title": "George Onions", "text": "George Onions\n\nGeorge Onions VC (2 March 1883 – 2 April 1944) was an English recipient of the Victoria Cross, the highest and most prestigious award for gallantry in the face of the enemy that can be awarded to British and Commonwealth forces.\n\nOnions first served with the 3rd Hussars and was involved in the Easter Rising in Dublin in 1916.\n\nOnions was 35 years old, and a Lance-Corporal in the 1st Battalion, The Devonshire Regiment, British Army during the First World War when the following deed took place for which he was awarded the VC.\n\nOn the foggy morning of 22 August 1918, south of Achiet-le-Petit, France, Lance-Corporal Onions was sent out with Private Henry Eades to reconnoitre the area in front of his unit's position. They saw the enemy advancing in large numbers and, seizing the opportunity, they boldly placed themselves on the flank of the advancing enemy and opened fire. When the enemy were about 100 yards from them the line wavered and some hands were thrown up, whereupon the lance-corporal rushed forward and helped by his comrade, took about 200 of the enemy prisoners and marched them back to his company commander.\n\nPrivate Eades was awarded the Distinguished Conduct Medal but died of wounds that he received only a few days later.\n\nHe was later commissioned into the Rifle Brigade. After World War I, Onions served in the Auxiliary Division of the Royal Irish Constabulary. In 1939 he was commissioned a Captain in the Royal Warwickshire Regiment for National Defence, but resigned his commission in 1941.\n\nHis Victoria Cross is displayed at The Keep Military Museum, Dorchester, Dorset, England.\n\n"}
{"id": "36076939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36076939", "title": "Horace Greasley", "text": "Horace Greasley\n\nJoseph Horace \"Jim\" Greasley (25 December 1918 – 4 February 2010) was a British soldier in the Second World War who was captured in May 1940 by the German \"Wehrmacht\" and later became famous for claiming that he escaped from his camp over 200 times in the conduct of a clandestine love affair, returning into captivity each time. He was the subject of a best-selling autobiography which has been criticised for sensationalism. He was also the subject of controversy for having claimed that he was the prisoner of war shown in a photograph staring at Heinrich Himmler, when the prisoner in question is identified elsewhere as a Soviet soldier.\n\nIn Spring of 2008, ghostwriter Ken Scott was introduced to Horace Greasley, aged 89, so he could finally have his World War II memoirs recorded. Scott stated that he only acted as Horace's fingers to type the book as Horace suffered from extreme arthritis. The book was finished and published by the end of 2008 by Libros International, and gives Greasley's account of his decision to go to war, his capture, struggles, near-death experiences, brutality of the SS, the unique love of Rosa Rauchbach, the escapes, and his liberation.\n\nGuy Walters has criticised the book for exaggerating the dangers which Greasley faced stating, \"Working camps for NCOs such as Greasley were not the tightly-guarded places conjured up by our collective imagination, which is weaned on images from Colditz and The Great Escape. In fact, bunking out of one's camp to fraternise with local girls was hardly unusual, and certainly not 'escaping' in the sense most of us understand it.\"\n\nThe February 2010 Telegraph obituary published a photograph captioned \"Greasley confronting Heinrich Himmler (wearing the spectacles) in the POW camp\". The photograph and its description was republished by other news sources. \nGuy Walters asserted categorically that the soldier in the picture was not Greasley, stating that the picture is held by the US National Archives and the caption details show it was taken in Minsk (in Belarus) in mid-1941, that it was taken by a photographer for a propaganda film and identifies the soldier as Soviet from his cap, and that the officers in the picture are the same officers who appear in the film with Himmler.\n\n"}
{"id": "880265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=880265", "title": "Isabella Bird", "text": "Isabella Bird\n\nIsabella Lucy Bird, married name Bishop (15 October 1831 – 7 October 1904), was a nineteenth-century English explorer, writer, photographer, and naturalist. With Fanny Jane Butler she founded the John Bishop Memorial hospital in Srinagar. She was the first woman to be elected Fellow of the Royal Geographical Society.\n\nBird was born on 15 October 1831 at Boroughbridge Hall, Yorkshire, the home of her maternal grandmother and her father's first curacy after taking orders in 21. Her parents were Rev Edward Bird BA (1794–1858) and his second wife, Dora Lawson (1803–1866). \n\nBird moved several times during her childhood. In 1832, Reverend Bird was appointed curate in Maidenhead. Because of her father's ill health Bird's family moved again in 1834 to Tattenhall in Cheshire, a living presented to him by his cousin Dr John Bird Sumner, Bishop of Chester, where in the same year Bird's sister, Henrietta, was born.\nBird was outspoken from an early age. When six years old, she confronted the local MP for South Cheshire: \"Sir Malpas de Grey Tatton Egerton, while he was campaigning, asking him \"did you tell my father my sister was so pretty because you wanted his vote?\"\n\nEdward Bird's controversial views against Sunday labour caused his congregation to dwindle, and in 1842 he requested a transfer to St. Thomas's in Birmingham. Here again objections were raised which culminated in the minister's being pelted \"with stones, mud, and insults\".\n\nIn 1848, the family moved again and, after spending some time in Eastbourne, took up residence in Wyton in Huntingdonshire (now Cambridgeshire.)\n\nFrom early childhood Bird was frail, suffering from a spinal complaint, nervous headaches, and insomnia. The doctor recommended an open-air life, and consequently, Bird learned to ride in infancy, and later to row. Her only education came from her parents: her father was a keen botanist who instructed Bird in flora, and her mother taught her daughters an eclectic mix of subjects. Bird became an avid reader. However, her \"bright intelligence, [and] an extreme curiosity as to the world outside, made it impossible for her brain and her nature generally to be narrowed and stiffened by the strictly evangelical atmosphere of her childhood\".\n\nBird's first publication was at the age of 16, a pamphlet addressing Free Trade v Protectionism after which she continued writing articles for various periodicals.\n\nIn 1850, a \"fibrous tumour was removed from the neighbourhood of the spine\". Bird continued to suffer from unspecified ailments resulting in lassitude and insomnia. The family spent six summers in Scotland in an effort to improve her health.\n\nDoctors urged a sea voyage and in 1854 Bird's life of travelling began when the opportunity arose for her to sail to the United States accompanying her second cousins to their family home. Her father \"gave her [£]100 and leave to stay away as long as it lasted\". Bird's \"bright descriptive letters\" written home to her relations formed the basis for her first book, \"An Englishwoman in America\" (1856), published by Murray. John Murray, \"as well as being Isabella's lifelong publisher, ... [became] one of her closest friends\".\n\n Bird left Britain again in 1872, going initially to Australia, which she disliked, and then to Hawaii (known in Europe as the Sandwich Islands), her love for which prompted her second book (published three years later). While there she climbed Mauna Kea and Mauna Loa. She then moved on to Colorado, then the newest state in the USA, where she had heard the air was excellent for the infirm. Dressed practically and riding not sidesaddle but frontwards like a man (though she threatened to sue the \"Times\" for saying she dressed like one), she covered over 800 miles in the Rocky Mountains in 1873. Her letters to her sister, first printed in the magazine \"The Leisure Hour\", comprised Bird's fourth and perhaps most famous book, \"A Lady's Life in the Rocky Mountains\".\n\nBird's time in the Rockies was enlivened especially by her acquaintance with Jim Nugent, \"Rocky Mountain Jim\", a textbook outlaw with one eye and an affinity for violence and poetry. \"A man any woman might love but no sane woman would marry\", Bird declared in a section excised from her letters before their publication. Nugent also seemed captivated by the independent-minded Bird, but she ultimately left the Rockies and her \"dear desperado\". Nugent was shot dead less than a year later.\nAt home, Bird again found herself pursued, this time by Dr John Bishop, an Edinburgh surgeon in his thirties. She got interested in Japan through Colin Alexander McVean's account and asked him advise and convenience in February 1878, then went travelling again, this time to Asia: Japan, China, Korea, Vietnam, Singapore, and Malaya. When her sister Henrietta Amelia Bird died of typhoid in 1880, Bird accepted John Bishop's marriage proposal. They were married in February 1881, and later that year she was awarded the Royal Order of Kapiolani by King Kalākaua of Hawaii. Bird's health took a severe turn for the worse but, other than a spell of scarlet fever in 1888, it recovered following John Bishop's death in 1886, at which point she inherited a large amount of disposable income. Feeling that her earlier travels had been hopelessly dilettante, Bird studied medicine and resolved to travel as a missionary. Despite being nearly 60 years of age, she set off for India.\n\nArriving on the subcontinent in February 1889, Bird visited missions in India, visited Ladakh on the borders of Tibet, and then travelled in Persia, Kurdistan, and Turkey. In India, the Maharajah of Kashmir gave her a piece of land on which to build a hospital with sixty beds and a dispensary for women; there she worked with Fanny Jane Butler to found the John Bishop Memorial Hospital in memory of her recently deceased husband who had left funds for this purpose in his will. The following year, she joined a group of British soldiers travelling between Baghdad and Tehran. She remained with the unit's commanding officer during his survey work in the region, armed with her revolver and a medicine chest supplied – in possibly an early example of corporate sponsorship – by Henry Wellcome's company in London. In 1891, she travelled through Baluchistan to Persia and Armenia, exploring the source of the Karun river and later that year she gave a speech in a committee room of the House of Commons on the persecution of Christians in Kurdistan, on which she had made representations to the Grand Vizier of the Turkish Empire.\n\nFeatured in journals and magazines for decades, Bird was by now something of a household name. In 1890, she became the first woman to be awarded the Honorary Fellowship of the Royal Scottish Geographical Society. Two years later, she became the first woman allowed to join the Royal Geographical Society. She was elected to membership of the Royal Photographic Society on 12 January 1897. Her final great journey took place in 1897, when she travelled up the Yangtze and Han rivers in China and Korea, respectively. Later still, she went to Morocco, where she travelled among the Berbers and had to use a ladder to mount her black stallion, a gift from the Sultan.\n\nA few months after returning from a trip to Morocco, Bird fell ill and died at her home on 16 Melville Street, Edinburgh on 7 October 1904. She was buried with her family in Dean Cemetery in the west of the city. The grave lies in the small curved southern section, near the small path which divides it in two.\n\nShe was planning another trip to China at the time of her death.\n\nThe first biography of Bird was written by Anne M Stoddart and published in 1907.\n\nCaryl Churchill used Bird as a character in her play \"Top Girls\" (1982). Much of the dialogue written by Churchill comes from Bird's own writings.\n\nBird was featured in \"Bedrock: Writers on the Wonders of Geology\" (2006), edited by Lauret E. Savoy, Eldridge M. Moores, and Judith E. Moores (Trinity University Press) which looks at writing over the years and how it pays tribute to the Earth and its geological features.\n\nBird is also the main character of the manga \"Isabella Bird in Wonderland\" (\"Fushigi no Kuni no Bird\"), a novelization of her travels to Japan; it received a bilingual Japanese-English edition beginning in 2018.\nThe building of the clock tower on Tobermory, Mull harbour wall was funded by Bird in memory of her beloved sister Henrietta. It was designed by mountaineer and explorer Edward Whymper. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "833810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=833810", "title": "Jakob Michael Reinhold Lenz", "text": "Jakob Michael Reinhold Lenz\n\nJakob Michael Reinhold Lenz (23 January 1751, or 12 January in the Julian calendar–4 June 1792, or 24 May in the Julian calendar) was a Baltic German writer of the \"Sturm und Drang\" movement.\n\nLenz was born in Sesswegen (Cesvaine), Governorate of Livonia, Russian Empire, now Latvia, the son of the pietistic minister Christian David Lenz (1720–1798), later General Superintendent of Livonia. When Lenz was nine, in 1760, the family moved to Dorpat, now Tartu, where his father had been offered a minister's post. His first published poem appeared when he was 15. From 1768 to 1770 he studied theology on a scholarship, first at Dorpat and then at Königsberg. While there, he attended lectures by Immanuel Kant, who encouraged him to read Jean-Jacques Rousseau. He began increasingly to follow his literary interests and to neglect theology. His first independent publication, the long poem \"Die Landplagen\" (\"Torments of the Land\") appeared in 1769. He also studied music, most likely with either the Ukrainian virtuoso lutanist Timofey Belogradsky, then resident in Königsberg, or his student Johann Friedrich Reichardt.\n\nIn 1771 Lenz abandoned his studies in Königsberg. Much against the will of his father, who on that account broke off contact with him, he took a position little better than that of a servant with Friedrich Georg and Ernst Nikolaus von Kleist (), barons from Courland and officer cadets about to begin their military service, whom he accompanied to Strasbourg. Once there, he came into contact with the actuary Johann Daniel Salzmann, around whom had formed the literary group of the \"Société de philosophie et de belles lettres\". This was frequented also by the young Johann Wolfgang von Goethe, who at this time happened to be in Strasbourg, and whose acquaintance Lenz made, as well as that of Johann Heinrich Jung-Stilling. Goethe now became Lenz's literary idol, and through him he made contact with Johann Gottfried Herder and Johann Kaspar Lavater, with whom he corresponded.\n\nIn the following year, 1772, Lenz accompanied his masters to the garrisons of Landau, Fort Louis and Wissembourg. He also fell in love with Friederike Brion, once the beloved of Goethe, but his feelings were not reciprocated.\n\nIn 1773 Lenz returned to Strasbourg and resumed his studies. The following year he gave up his position with the von Kleist brothers and lived as a freelance writer, earning his living by private tutoring. His relations with Goethe became friendlier: while the two of them were visiting Emmendingen, Goethe introduced Lenz to his sister Cornelia and her husband Johann Georg Schlosser.\n\nIn April 1776 Lenz followed Goethe to the court of Weimar, where he was at first amicably received. But in early December, on Goethe's instigation, he was expelled. The exact circumstances are not recorded; Goethe, who broke off all personal contact with him after this, refers only vaguely in his diary to \"Lenz's asininity\" (\"Lenzens Eseley\").\n\nLenz then returned to Emmendingen, where the Schlossers took him in. From there he made a number of journeys into Alsace and Switzerland, including one to Lavater in Zürich in May 1777. The news of Cornelia Schlosser's death, which reached him there in June of that year, had a powerful effect on him. He returned to Emmendingen, and then went back to Lavater. In November, while staying in Winterthur with Christoph Kaufmann, he suffered an attack of paranoid schizophrenia. In January 1778 Kaufmann sent Lenz to the philanthropist, social reformer and clergyman Johann Friedrich Oberlin in Waldersbach in Alsace, where he stayed from 20 January to 8 February. Despite the care of Oberlin and his wife, Lenz's mental condition grew worse. He returned to Schlosser at Emmendingen, where he was lodged with a shoemaker and then a forester.\n\nHis younger brother Karl fetched him in June 1779 from Hertingen, where he was under treatment by a doctor, and brought him to Riga, where their father by this time had risen to the position of General Superintendent.\n\nLenz was unable to establish himself professionally in Riga. An attempt to make him director of the cathedral school came to nothing, as Herder refused to give him a reference. Nor did he have any greater success in St. Petersburg, where he lived from February to September 1780. He then took a position as a private tutor on an estate near Dorpat, then, after another stay in St. Petersburg, he went to Moscow in September 1781, where initially he stayed with the historian Friedrich Müller and learned Russian.\n\nHe worked as a private tutor, mixed in the circles of Russian Freemasons and authors, and helped produce a number of reformist schemes. He also translated books on Russian history into German. His mental condition however was steadily deteriorating all the while, and at last he became entirely dependent on the goodwill of Russian patrons for the means of living.\n\nIn the early morning of 4 June 1792 (24 May in the Julian calendar) Lenz was found dead in a Moscow street. The place of his burial is unknown.\n\n\"Lenz\", a novella fragment by Georg Büchner, deals with Lenz's visit to the minister Friedrich Oberlin, in the Vosges. Lenz had visited Oberlin, on the suggestion of Kaufmann, because of his reputation as a pastor and psychologist. Oberlin's account of the events of Lenz's visit furnished Büchner with the source of his story, which in its turn was the source of Wolfgang Rihm's chamber opera \"Jakob Lenz\".\n\nIn Paul Celan's acceptance speech for the Georg Büchner Prize for Literature in 1960, both the historical man and the \"Lenz\" of Büchner's fragment figure heavily. In the first line of Büchner's novella, Lenz sets off for the mountains on 20 January. Celan relates this to the life of the poem, asking, \"Perhaps one can say that every poem has its 20th of January?\" He adds that the poem remains mindful of such dates. Celan also says of his work \"Conversation in the Mountains,\" composed after a missed encounter with Adorno, that it was written from such a date: that he started writing from his own \"20th of January.\"\n\nMore recently the writers Peter Schneider, in his story \"Lenz\" (1973), and Gert Hoffmann, in his novella \"Die Rückkehr des verlorenen J.M.R. Lenz nach Riga\" (\"The Return of the Lost J.M.R. Lenz to Riga\", 1984), have given literary form to the events of his life.\n\nAlso worth mentioning is Marc Buhl's novel of 2002, \"Der rote Domino\" (\"The Red Domino\"), which uses the friendship between Goethe and Lenz, and its abrupt end, as the inspiration for a detective story.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36885841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36885841", "title": "James Crisp", "text": "James Crisp\n\nJames Crisp (born 11 October 1982) is a British swimmer. He has won gold medals in the Paralympic Games as well as the IPC world and European championships, breaking numerous records in the process. He competes in S9 classification events after having contracted polio as a child.\n\nCrisp was born on 11 October 1982 in Nottingham. He contracted polio as a child through vaccination and was encouraged to take up swimming as a form of physiotherapy. He moved to Sheffield to study at university and became a member of the City of Sheffield Swim Squad (COSSS), training at Ponds Forge.\n\nCrisp competes in S9 swimming events and has won medals in all the different competitive swimming strokes. He holds a number of British and European records across a range of different strokes and lengths. He has won world championship titles in the freestyle, breaststroke, backstroke, and the individual medley as well as being part of the 2002 championship-winning 4x100 m relay team.\n\nTo date Crisp has won twelve Paralympic medals. Seven of the medals were awarded at the 2000 Summer Paralympics including individual golds in the 100 m backstroke and the 200 m individual medley. He was also part of the victorious 4x100 m freestyle relay team alongside Jody Cundy, Giles Long, David Roberts, Matt Walker and Marc Woods. At the 2004 Games Crisp won four individual medals, including three silvers, with all four events being in different stroke styles.\n\nIn what he has described as the most difficult time of his 14-year career Crisp missed out on the 2008 Games due to a shoulder injury.\n\nCrisp has achieved significant success in the IPC Swimming World Championships, winning sixteen medals. He claimed two golds in 1998, five in 2002, and one in 2006. He has also seen many victories in the European Championships, winning three golds in 1999, four in 2001, and one in 2011. He has been on the podium thirteen times at the European events.\n"}
{"id": "45591304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45591304", "title": "Jan Boxill", "text": "Jan Boxill\n\nJeanette Marie Boxill (née Bozanic) is an American academic who was Senior Lecturer in Philosophy (ethics) at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. She was also Chair of the Faculty and Director of Parr Center for Ethics. Her writing and teaching relate broadly with ethical issues in social conduct, social and political philosophy, feminist theory, and ethics in sports. She is editor of \"Sports Ethics: An Anthology and Issues in Race and Gender\". She is past president of the International Association for Philosophy in Sport, serves on the board of the NCAA Scholarly Colloquium Committee, and chairs both the 2011 NCAA Scholarly Colloquium and the Education Outreach Program for the U.S. Anti-Doping Agency (USADA). For 25 years, Boxill was the public address announcer for UNC women's basketball and field hockey; she now serves as the radio color analyst for UNC women's basketball. She is a member of numerous professional associations (philosophy, sports, and the American Association of University Women) and has won a number of awards (from inside her institution and beyond) for teaching and professional contributions. Jan Boxill is married to Bernard Boxill, who also teaches philosophy as the Pardue Distinguished Professor of Philosophy at UNC and focuses upon social and political philosophy and African American philosophy. She resigned from UNC in 2015 in the wake of the UNC Chapel Hill academics-athletics scandal.\n\nJan Boxill was born Jeanette Marie Bozanic circa 1939 in Worcester, New York. Her father John was an immigrant from Yugoslavia, and her mother Martha was an immigrant from Czechoslovakia.\n\nAfter graduating from Worcester Central School in 1956, Bozanic joined the United States Air Force and played saxophone in the Women's Air Force Band. She then enrolled at the University of California, Los Angeles using the G.I. Bill and played club basketball while completing her Bachelor of Arts degree in political science. Boxill completed her B.A. in 1967, then earned an M.A. in philosophy in 1975 then a Ph.D. also in philosophy in 1981, both also at UCLA. While at UCLA, she married Bernard R. Boxill.\n\n\nFrom 1991 to 2011, Boxill was an academic advisor for the North Carolina Tar Heels women's basketball team at UNC Chapel Hill.\n\nBoxill resigned from her employment at UNC in February 2015, in which she is alleged to have steered athletes toward 'scam courses' in order to qualify for the school's sports teams. Boxill, who had been the faculty chair, a senior lecturer in ethics, and an academic counselor for athletes had been told on October 22, 2014, that her employment with the university would be terminated, but she had been appealing that institutional decision. Then, she announced her resignation on February 28, 2015. Systematic investigation of the 20-year-long 'incident' was published in The Wainstein Report, led by Kenneth L. Wainstein, former head of US Homeland Security under President George W. Bush The NCAA accused her of giving giving \"impermissible academic assistance and special arrangements\" to women’s basketball players, a claim she denied.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59203907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59203907", "title": "Jemeker Thompson", "text": "Jemeker Thompson\n\nJemeker Thompson-Hairston is a criminal who rose to the top of the cocaine trade during the peak of the 1980s crack epidemic in Los Angeles.\n\nHer memoir, \"Queen Pin\", co-written with David Ritz, was published in 2010.. In a mixed review, Kirkus Reviews said that it \"lacks the salacious elements that make criminal memoirs compelling,\" but noted that it \"may appeal to believers\" due to its religious content. Thompson-Hairston was also the subject of an episode in the second season of the Netflix series \"Drug Lords\".\n"}
{"id": "263718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=263718", "title": "Joe Rogan", "text": "Joe Rogan\n\nJoseph James Rogan (; born August 11, 1967) is an American stand-up comedian, mixed martial arts (MMA) color commentator, podcast host, businessman and former television host and actor.\n\nRogan began a career in comedy in August 1988 in the Boston area. After relocating to Los Angeles in 1994, Rogan signed an exclusive developmental deal with Disney and appeared as an actor on several television shows including \"Hardball\" and \"NewsRadio\". In 1997, he started working for the Ultimate Fighting Championship (UFC) as an interviewer and color commentator. Rogan released his first comedy special in 2000. In 2001, Rogan put his comedy career on hold after becoming the host of \"Fear Factor\" and would resume his stand-up career shortly after the show's end in 2006. In 2009, Rogan launched his podcast \"The Joe Rogan Experience\".\n\nJoseph James Rogan was born on August 11, 1967, in Newark, New Jersey, the place where his grandfather moved his family in the 1940s. He is of one-quarter Irish and three-quarters Italian descent. His father, Joseph, worked as a police officer in Newark. At five years of age, Rogan's parents divorced, and his father has not been in contact with him since he was seven. Rogan said of his father: \"All I remember of my dad are these brief, violent flashes of domestic violence ... But I don't want to complain about my childhood. Nothing bad ever really happened to me ... I don't hate the guy.\" At seven, Rogan and the family moved to San Francisco, California, followed by another move when he was 11 to Gainesville, Florida. They settled in Newton Upper Falls, Massachusetts, where Rogan attended Newton South High School graduating in 1985.\n\nRogan participated in Little League Baseball but developed an interest in martial arts in his early teens as \"it was really the first thing that ever gave me hope that I wasn't going to be a loser. So I really, really gravitated toward it\". At fourteen, he took up karate and began to compete in taekwondo competitions. At nineteen, he won a US Open Championship tournament as a lightweight. He was a Massachusetts full-contact state champion for four consecutive years and became an instructor in the sport. Rogan also practiced amateur kickboxing, and held a 2–1 record. Rogan retired from competition at 21 as he began to suffer from frequent headaches and feared worse injuries. He attended University of Massachusetts Boston but found it pointless and dropped out before he graduated.\n\nRogan had no intention of being a professional stand-up comedian and initially considered a career in kickboxing. He was a fan of comedy as a youngster and his parents took him to see comedian Richard Pryor's film \"\", which affected him \"in such a profound way. Nothing had made me laugh like that.\" Rogan's friends at his gym and taekwondo school convinced him to have a go at stand-up comedy as he would make jokes and do impressions to make them laugh. At 21, after six months preparing material and practising his delivery, he performed his first stand-up routine on August 27, 1988 at an open-mic night at Stitches comedy club in Boston. While he worked on his stand-up, Rogan took up several jobs to secure himself financially by teaching martial arts at Boston University and Revere, Massachusetts, delivering newspapers, driving a limousine, doing construction work, and completing duties for a private investigator. His blue comedy style earned him gigs at bachelor parties and strip clubs. One night, Rogan convinced the owner of a comedy club in Boston to allow him to try a new, five-minute routine. At the show was talent manager Jeff Sussman, who liked Rogan's act and offered him to become his manager, to which Rogan accepted. In 1990, Rogan moved to New York City as a full-time comedian; he was \"scratching and grinding\" for money at the time, so he stayed with his grandfather in Newark for the first six months. Rogan later cited Richard Jeni, Lenny Bruce, Sam Kinison and Bill Hicks as comedy influences.\n\nIn 1994, Rogan relocated to Los Angeles as it presented more career opportunities. His first national television spot followed on the MTV comedy show \"Half-Hour Comedy Hour\". The appearance led to the network offering him a three-year exclusive contract and a role in a pilot episode of a \"dopey game show\" for $500. Rogan declined, but it prompted Sussman to send tapes of Rogan's performances to several networks which sparked a bidding war. After a period of negotiations, Rogan accepted a development deal with the Disney network. He secured his first major acting role in the 1994 nine-episode Fox sitcom \"Hardball\" as Frank Valente, a young, ego-centric star player on a professional baseball team. Rogan called the hiring process \"weird\" as the network had no idea if he could act until he was asked by Dean Valentine, then-president of Walt Disney Television, to which he replied: \"If you can lie, you can act, and if you can lie to crazy girlfriends, you can act under pressure\". The filming schedule was a new experience for Rogan who started to work 12-hour days and among people. Rogan later said: \"It was a great show on paper until a horrible executive producer with a big ego was hired by Fox to run the show and he re-wrote it.\" Around this time, Rogan began performing at The Comedy Store in Hollywood and became a paid regular by owner Mitzi Shore. He performed at the club for the next 13 years for free, and paid for the venue's new sound system.\n\nFrom 1995 to 1999, Rogan starred in the NBC sitcom \"NewsRadio\" as Joe Garrelli, an electrician and handyman at the show's fictional news radio station. The role was originally set to be played by actor Ray Romano, but he was let go from the cast after one rehearsal and Rogan was brought in. The switch caused Rogan to work with the show's writers to help develop the character in time before show was set to launch, which he later described as a \"very dumbed-down, censored version\" of himself. Rogan befriended fellow cast member Phil Hartman who confided his marital problems to him. Rogan claimed he tried to persuade Hartman to divorce his wife five times, but \"he loved his kids and didn't want to leave\". In 1998, Hartman was murdered by his wife. The loss affected Rogan's ability to perform stand-up and cancelled a week of scheduled gigs. Rogan later saw acting as an easy job, but grew tired of \"playing the same character every week\" and only did it for the money. He later viewed his time on \"NewsRadio\" as \"a dream gig\" that allowed him to earn money while working on his stand-up as often as he could. During the series he worked on a pilot for a show entitled \"Overseas\".\n\nRogan began working for the mixed martial arts promotion Ultimate Fighting Championship as a backstage and post-fight interviewer; his first show took place at \"UFC 12: Judgement Day\" in Dothan, Alabama on February 7, 1997. He became interested in jiu-jitsu in 1994 after watching Royce Gracie fight at \"UFC 2: No Way Out\", and landed the position at the organization as Sussman was friends with its co-creator and original producer, Campbell McLaren. He quit after around two years as his salary could not cover the cost of travelling to the events, which were in more rural locations at the time. After the UFC was taken over by Zuffa in 2001, Rogan attended some events and became friends with its new president Dana White, who offered him a job as a color commentator but Rogan initially declined as he \"just wanted to go to the fights and drink\". In 2002, White was able to hire Rogan for free in exchange for prime event tickets for him and his friends. After about fifteen free gigs as commentator Rogan accepted pay for the job, working alongside Mike Goldberg until the end of 2016. Rogan won the Wrestling Observer Newsletter Award for Best Television Announcer twice, and was named MMA Personality of the Year four times by the World MMA Awards. In 2006, Rogan hosted the weekly UFC television show \"Inside the UFC\".\n\nIn 1999, Rogan secured a three-album deal with Warner Bros. Records and began tentative plans to star in his own prime-time television sitcom on Fox named \"The Joe Rogan Show\". The show, co-written by \"Seinfeld\" writer Bill Masters, was to feature Rogan as \"a second-string sportscaster who lands a spot as the token male on a \"View\"-style women's show\". In December 1999, he recorded his first stand-up comedy album in two shows at the Comedy Connection at Faneuil Hall in Boston, which was used in his first comedy album \"I'm Gonna Be Dead Some Day ... \", released in August 2000. The album was played regularly on \"The Howard Stern Show\" and heavily downloaded from the Napster sharing service. It contains \"Voodoo Punanny\", a song he wrote after Warner suggested something they could play on the radio. It was subsequently released as a single. Around this time, Rogan also worked on ideas for a film and a cartoon with his comedian friend Chris McGuire, and began to operate a blog on his website JoeRogan.net, which he used to discuss various topics that helped him develop his stand-up routines.\n\nIn 2001, development on Rogan's television show was interrupted after he accepted an offer from NBC to host the American edition of \"Fear Factor\". Rogan declined initially as he thought the network would not air such a program, but Sussman convinced him to accept. According to a 2015 interview with Art Bell, Rogan expected \"Fear Factor\" would be cancelled after a few episodes due to objections with some of the content and further reported that he took the job mainly to obtain observations and anecdotes for his stand-up comedy career. The show increased Rogan's national exposure which caused turnouts at his stand-up gigs to grow. \"Fear Factor\" ran for six seasons from 2001 to 2006 and returned for a seventh and final season from 2011 to 2012.\n\nIn 2002, he appeared on the episode \"A Beautiful Mind\" of \"Just Shoot Me\" as Chris, the boyfriend of lead character Maya Gallo. In December 2002, Rogan was the emcee for the 2002 Blockbuster Hollywood Spectacular, a Christmas parade in Hollywood. In February 2003, Rogan became the new co-host of \"The Man Show\" on Comedy Central for its fifth season from August 2003 with fellow comedian Doug Stanhope, following the departure of hosts Jimmy Kimmel and Adam Carolla. A year into the show however, the hosts began to disagree with Comedy Central and the producers over what content was removed and kept in. Rogan said, \"I was a little misled ... I was told: 'Show nudity, and we'll blur it out. Swear and we'll bleep it out.' That hasn't been the case\". The show ended in 2004. Around this time, Rogan entered talks to host his own radio show but they came to nothing due to his already busy schedule.\n\nIn 2005, actor Wesley Snipes challenged Rogan to a cage fight. Rogan trained for the event for five months before Snipes backed out following an investigation by the IRS for his alleged tax evasion. Rogan believed Snipes needed a quick payout to alleviate his debt. In May 2005, Rogan signed a deal with the Endeavor Talent Agency. Two months later, he used money he earned from hosting \"Fear Factor\" to film his second stand-up comedy special \"Joe Rogan: Live\", in Phoenix, Arizona. The special premiered on \"Showtime\" in 2007. Rogan hired a camera crew to document his comedy tours which he posted on his website for his \"Joe Show\" web series.\n\nIn 2005, Rogan wrote a blog entry on his website accusing comedian Carlos Mencia of joke thievery, a claim he had made since 1993, and dubbed him \"Carlos Menstealia\". The situation culminated in February 2007 when Rogan confronted Mencia on stage at The Comedy Store in Hollywood. A video of the incident was uploaded onto YouTube and included evidence and comments from other comedians, including George Lopez, \"The Reverend\" Bob Levy, Bobby Lee and Ari Shaffir. The incident led to Rogan's talent agent expelling him as a client of The Gersh Agency, who also managed Mencia, and his ban from The Comedy Store, causing him to relocate his regular venue to the Hollywood Improv Comedy Club. Rogan later said that every single comic he had talked to was so happy and thankful he did it, and signed with William Morris Agency five minutes later. Rogan returned to The Comedy Store in 2013 when he supported Shaffir in the filming of his first special.\n\nIn April 2007, Comedy Central Records released Rogan's fourth comedy special, \"Shiny Happy Jihad\". The set was recorded in September 2006 at Cobb's Comedy Club in San Francisco, and contains excerpts of an improvised Q&A session with the audience that was typical of Rogan's act at the time.\n\nRogan hosted the short lived CBS show \"Game Show in My Head\" that aired for eight episodes in January 2009 and produced by Ashton Kutcher. The show involved contestants who try to convince people to perform or take part in increasingly bizarre situations for money. He agreed to host the show as the idea intrigued him, calling it \"a completely mindless form of entertainment\".\n\nIn December 2009, Rogan launched a free podcast with his friend and fellow comedian Brian Redban. The first episode was recorded on December 24 and was initially a live weekly broadcast on Ustream, with Rogan and Redban \"sitting in front of laptops bullshitting\". By August 2010, the podcast was named \"The Joe Rogan Experience\" and entered the list of Top 100 podcasts on iTunes, and in 2011, was picked up by SiriusXM Satellite Radio. The podcast features an array of guests who discuss current events, political views, philosophy, comedy, hobbies and numerous other topics. In January 2015, the podcast downloaded over 11 million times. By October that year, the podcast was downloaded 16 million times each month, making it one of the most popular free podcasts.\n\nIn 2010, Rogan accused comedian Dane Cook of joke thievery.\n\nIn 2011, Rogan played his first major character in a movie in \"Zookeeper\". He was also working on a book that he tentatively titled \"Irresponsible Advice from a Man with No Credibility\", based on his blog entries on his website. He played himself in \"Here Comes the Boom\", another action-comedy starring Kevin James released in 2012.\n\nIn December 2012, Rogan released his sixth comedy special \"Live from the Tabernacle\" exclusively as a download on his website for $5. He was inspired to release it that way after Louis C.K. did the same thing.\n\nIn 2013, Rogan hosted his own six-episode television show \"Joe Rogan Questions Everything\" on the SyFy network. The show covered topics discussed on his podcasts, including the existence of Bigfoot and UFOs, and featured several comedians, experts, and scientists with the aim of trying to \"put some subjects to bed ... with an open-minded perspective\".\n\nRogan and Jessica Ditzel, a former cocktail waitress, married in 2009 and have two daughters, the first born in May 2008, the second born in 2010. Rogan is also a stepfather to his wife's daughter from another relationship. The family briefly lived in Boulder, Colorado and now lives in Bell Canyon, California.\n\nHe has vitiligo on his hands and feet.\n\nRogan became interested in jiu-jitsu after watching Royce Gracie fight at \"UFC 2: No Way Out\" in 1994. In 1996, Rogan began training in Brazilian jiu-jitsu under Carlson Gracie at his school in Hollywood, California. He is a black belt under Eddie Bravo's 10th Planet Jiu-Jitsu, a style of no-gi Brazilian jiu-jitsu, and a black belt in gi Brazilian jiu-jitsu under Jean Jacques Machado.\n\nRogan was raised Catholic, having attended Catholic school in the first grade, but has since abandoned following any organized religion and identifies as an agnostic. He is highly critical of the Catholic Church and, drawing from his experiences as a former member, believes it is an institution of oppression.\n\nRogan is not affiliated with any political party but has been described as having mostly libertarian views. He endorsed Ron Paul in the 2012 U.S. presidential campaign and Gary Johnson in the 2016 U.S. presidential campaign. Rogan has publicly supported Tulsi Gabbard and encouraged her to run for US presidency in 2020.\n\nRogan supports the legalized use of cannabis and believes it holds numerous benefits. He hosted the documentary film \"\" and was featured in \"Marijuana: A Chronic History\" and \"The Culture High\". He also supports the use of LSD, psilocybin mushrooms and DMT toward the exploration and enhancement of consciousness, as well as introspection. He was the presenter in the 2010 documentary \"DMT: The Spirit Molecule.\"\n\nRogan is an avid hunter and is part of the \"Eat What You Kill\" movement, which attempts to move away from factory farming and the mistreatment of animals raised for food.\n\nRogan is opposed to routine infant circumcision and has claimed there is a lack of significant scientific evidence for any benefits to the practice, which he considers not entirely different from female genital mutilation due to its non-consensual nature.\n\nRogan has an interest in sensory deprivation and using an isolation tank. In 2001, he owned a Samadhi tank. He has stated that his personal experiences with meditation in isolation tanks has helped him explore the nature of consciousness as well as improve his performance in various physical and mental activities and overall well-being.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38843832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38843832", "title": "John L. Gihon", "text": "John L. Gihon\n\nJohn Lawrence Gihon (April 21, 1839 – September 18, 1878) was a Philadelphia photographer, best known for establishing the Philadelphia Sketch Club, documenting the American Civil War, and producing one of the earliest baseball cards. He was a featured photographer at the 1876 Centennial Exhibition, contributing to the Philadelphia Photographer magazine, and author of the \"Photographic Colorists' Guide\", published in 1878.\n\nJohn L. Gihon was born at Milford, New Jersey to parents Dr. John Hancock Gihon and Mary Jane Leary Gihon. His siblings were future Naval officer Albert L. Gihon and older sister Charlotte Gihon. The Gihon family moved to Philadelphia, Pennsylvania soon after John's birth. He attended grammar school at the Walnut Street School. In 1853, at age 14, Gihon was admitted to the Central High School.\n\nIn June 1855, he graduated at the top of his class and was subsequently nominated for admission to the United States Naval Academy. His nomination was secured by Representative Thomas Birch Florence and selected over 150 other applicants. John's brother was admitted the year previous. John Gihon's naval career was short lived. The Academy's board of surgeons rejected his application based on a \"varicose condition.\"\n\nIn September 1856, John L. Gihon and his father headed to Lecompton, Kansas on the staff of the territorial governor, John W. Geary. His father, John H. Gihon, M.D., was the private secretary to the governor. In 1858, Gihon was admittd into the life class of the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts. Soon thereafter, Gihon befriended Edward R. Morgan, nephew of the well-known Philadelphia photographer Samuel Broadbent. The two youths soon became apprentices under Broadbent.\n\nIn 1859, Gihon and Morgan opened a photographic studio at 1024 Chestnut Street, \"opposite the Academy of Fine Arts, and adjoining the St. Lawrence Hotel,\" according to an article in the \"Philadelphia Photographer\" magazine. In 1860, Gihon co-founded the Philadelphia Sketch Club on 125 South 11th Street in Philadelphia. The Philadelphia Sketch Club is currently the oldest American artist organization still in existence.\n\nAround the start of the Civil War, for reasons unknown, Edward Morgan left the business at 1024 Chestnut Street, leaving Gihon the sole proprietor. While other photographers ventured to battlefields, Gihon followed a different path. In 1863, he obtained permission to photograph at nearby Fort Delaware, a third-system fortification and wartime prison camp, which held more than 32,000 captured confederates.\n\nOn April 23, 1864, political prisoner Rev. Isaac W.K. Handy wrote that Gihon \"was at work all day, in the casemates, photographing the faces of Confederate officers, and a few of the political prisoners. Special permission was granted by Gen. Schoepf, who selected the photographer, and sent for him, himself.\" By July 1864, he was granted access to the actual prison facility. Handy wrote that Gihon, \"has been allowed to visit 'the pen' and has been busy, to-day, taking sundry pictures, to help the Yankee pockets, and bring joy to many a 'rebel' heart at the South.\"\n\nThe same day Confederate Army Capt. James Lile Lemmon, 18th Georgia Infantry, noted that the photographer \"asked that we sit for our portraits & after some debate among us we agreed as there was no harm in it, but my old uniform was in rags & stained with blood & ect & unfit for a portrait & I was glad that he had among his effects a few Confederate coats one of which I put on & then set for him.\"\n\nGihon continued to photograph at Fort Delaware until 1870.\n\nAfter that, he travelled to South America, and in 1873 the joined the photographic studio of Chute & Brooks, in Montevideo, Uruguay. He lived in that country a couple of years and after that he travelled to Argentina and Venezuela.\n\nIn 1876, Gihon left his studio and joined the Centennial Photographic Co., which was solely responsible for documenting the Centennial Exhibition in Philadelphia. In every issue of the 1877 \"Philadelphia Photographer\" included Gihon's column \"Rambling Remarks\" The same year Gihon ventured to Monvideo, Venezuela under a photographic contract with the Calle Mining Company. While there, Gihon fell to an unknown illness. In September 1878, he boarded a vessel bound for the states. On September 18, while two days out from New York harbor, he died. His obituary states he was buried at sea.\n\nIn 2006, fifty of his images taken at Fort Delaware were placed on auction by Cowan Auctions, Inc. The image collection \"bearing the fancy imprint of 'John L. Gihon's Art Galleries' sold for $86,000. The following year, an original 1870 Philadelphia Athletics BBC Team card sold for $6,960.\n\n"}
{"id": "12631269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12631269", "title": "Karl Friedrich Geldner", "text": "Karl Friedrich Geldner\n\nKarl Friedrich Geldner (17 December 1852 – 5 February 1929) was a German linguist best known for his analysis and synthesis of Avestan and Vedic Sanskrit texts.\n\nGeldner was born in Saalfeld, Saxe-Meiningen, where his father was a Protestant clergyman.\n\nGeldner studied Sanskrit and Avestan at the University of Leipzig in 1871 before moving to the University of Tübingen in 1872. He received a doctorate in Indological studies in 1875, and became a \"privatdozent\" following his \"habilitation\" in 1876. In 1887, Gelder moved back to the north-east, this time to Halle, where he was appointed extraordinary professor in 1890, followed by an extraordinary faculty-chairmanship at the University of Berlin a few months later.\n\nGeldner lectured in Berlin for 17 years. In 1907, he moved to the University of Marburg where he had been appointed ordinary professor. He retired from active teaching in 1921, and remained in Marburg until his death in 1929.\n\nGeldner's first significant publication, though made public only in 1877, was written while he was still a doctoral student. The essay, which was in its expanded and published form titled \"Über die Metrik des jüngeren Avesta\" (\"On the meter of the Younger Avesta\"), was originally an answer to a prize essay question posed by the University of Tübingen's Faculty of Philosophy. His analysis revealed that although the texts had not retained a metrical form, the majority of the manuscripts were in 8 syllable verse (10 or 12 syllable lines also occurred).\n\nAlthough the theory was subsequently revised by others, Geldner's hypothesis was reinstated in 1983, and the lines of the Younger Avesta are today considered to be historically related to the Vedic meters of the \"gayatri\" family. Unlike the meters of the Gathas, which are recited, the meters of the Younger Avesta are mostly sung.\n\nAlthough Geldner would have preferred to research the Vedas (he would later state to had \"lost\" 15 years working on the Avesta), following the publication of his doctoral thesis, Geldner began to work on a revision of Westergaard's edition of the Avesta. What he initially assumed would occupy him for only a few years, eventually took 20 and it was not until 1886 that the first volume was published. That first volume (the \"Yasna\") was followed by the \"Visperad\" and \"Khordeh Avesta\" in volume 2 (1889) and the Vendidad and Prolegomena in volume 3 (1895). Altogether, Geldner collated and documented over 120 manuscripts, and the greatest achievement of this laborious undertaking was \"undoubtedly the Prolegomena, which provided an exact description of all manuscripts and their genealogical relationship\" (so Schlerath, see references below).\n\nAlthough Gelder published several Avesta-related articles while working on the revision, following the publication of volume 3 he returned to work almost exclusively on Sanskrit texts. Only two publications after 1895 deal with Avestan topics. Together with Richard Pischel he began to work on the Vedas, and their collaboration was subsequently published in the three volume \"Vedische Studien\" (Stuttgart: Kohlhammer, 1889–1901), which - unlike previous translations - avoided a purely linguistic methodology and instead took indigenous tradition into account. Following his return to Marburg in 1907, Geldner dedicated his efforts to a translation of the RigVeda, which was sent to his publisher in 1928 but did not reach the public until after the author's death in February 1929. The three volumes of his monumental \"Der Rig-Veda aus dem Sanskrit ins Deutsche übersetzt\" were finally released in 1951.\n\n"}
{"id": "1445197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1445197", "title": "Katherine Jackson", "text": "Katherine Jackson\n\nKatherine Esther Jackson (born Kattie B. Screws; May 4, 1930) is the matriarch of the Jackson family.\n\nKatherine Jackson was born Kattie B. Screws on May 4, 1930, in Clayton, Alabama, to Prince Albert (October 16, 1907 – January 21, 1995) and Martha Screws (née Upshaw; December 14, 1902 – April 25, 1990). The elder of two daughters, Jackson contracted polio at age two, which left her with a noticeable permanent limp. In 1934, her father changed his surname to \"Scruse\", and renamed his daughter \"Katherine Esther\". That year, Jackson's family moved to East Chicago, Indiana, an industrial city in northwest Indiana near Chicago. \n\nAs a child, Jackson aspired to become an actress or country singer, but was dismayed to find no notable black country stars. Jackson's parents divorced when she was still a child. While attending Washington High School, Jackson joined the local high school band. In 1947, Katherine met Joseph Jackson, also living in East Chicago. Joseph obtained an annulment of an earlier marriage and began dating Katherine. After a year-long courtship, they married on November 5, 1949. In January 1950, they purchased a two-bedroom house in Gary. During the couple's early years in Gary, they sang together, with Joe playing guitar. After Joe's dream of a boxing career was dashed, he continued working at nearby East Chicago's Inland Steel Company. From 1950 until 1966, Jackson gave birth to 10 children, including twins Marlon and Brandon, the latter of whom died a few hours after birth.\n\nIn the late 1950s, Jackson began working part-time as a store clerk in a local Sears in Gary. In 1963, Jackson, who was raised a Baptist, became one of Jehovah's Witnesses. In 1965, all of her children followed her into the faith. While Joe, who was brought up in the Lutheran faith, also practiced the religion, it was often said he decided not to change his faith. As Jackson's brood grew, she quit her position at Sears and settled primarily as a housewife, keeping her children closer to home. By the early 1960s, several of Jackson's sons began to show off their musical talents. In 1963, Joe formed The Jackson Brothers with three of their eldest sons, Jackie, Tito, and Jermaine. Around the same time, Jackson's younger son Michael was also showing off his talent, which was discovered first by Jackson, who noticed Michael, at the age of four, singing along to the radio while dancing to the rhythm. When she tried to tell Joe of Michael's talent, though, he brushed her aside, but she insisted.\n\nA year later, Joe enlisted Michael and older brother Marlon Jackson into the group not as vocalists, but as backing instrumentalists, playing percussion. In 1966, Joe began to see seven-year-old Michael's overall talents three years after Jackson's discovery. Beforehand, Michael had performed onstage without his father's knowledge at several school recitals starting at five. By the end of 1966, Michael was positioned as the second front man of the group after Jermaine. Acting on advice from a schoolteacher, Joe changed the group's name to The Jackson Five. In 1967, after winning several talent shows in Gary, Joe Jackson decided to make the group a professional act when Gordon Keith, an owner and vocalist at Gary's Steeltown Records, discovered and signed them to their first contract with him on November 21. Their first single, \"Big Boy\", produced by Keith, was released on January 31, 1968. \"Big Boy\" became a local hit, playing on radio stations in the Chicago-Gary area. Jackson began designing the group's costumes, which she continued until the group found national fame months after signing with Motown Records in March 1969. During the Jackson 5's 1970–71 heyday, Jackson – along with her three daughters and youngest son – was barely mentioned in the press. This changed in 1974, when Joe began building careers around his three younger children and eldest daughter. Michael often mentioned Jackson lovingly. Jackson started to become part of her husband's management team when the grown-up members of the group (which renamed themselves The Jacksons after splitting from Motown in 1975) reunited for the Victory Tour in 1984. Michael dedicated his 1982 album, \"Thriller\", to her. Janet Jackson did the same following the release of 1989's \"Rhythm Nation 1814\", the first album where she was not under the watchful eye of her father following the success of \"Control\", as Janet had fired him months after its release. Michael often said that his mother was appreciative of his solo music and approved of songs such as \"Billie Jean\", but said she was cautious of Michael's mature material, including \"Don't Stop 'Til You Get Enough\". In 1985, acknowledging what was then a positive impact on her children's successful music careers, national urban magazine \"Essence\" honored her as \"Mother of the Year\".\n\nIn 1990, Jackson released her autobiography, \"My Family, The Jacksons\", which documented her early years and her relationship with her husband and their children, eight of whom wrote salutes to their mother in the book's foreword. She detailed that her husband on more than a few occasions had committed adultery. This prompted Katherine to file for divorce on March 9, 1973, at the Los Angeles County clerk, but chose to rescind the divorce papers.\n\nThe following year, Joh'Vonnie Jackson, Joe's daughter with another woman named Cheryl Terrell, was born on August 30, 1974. This led Joe and Cheryl to a 25-year affair while raising their daughter . Jackson attempted once again to divorce her husband in or around 1982, but again was persuaded to drop the action. Consequently, Katherine and Joe remained officially married.\n\nIn an unauthorized biography of Janet Jackson, a confrontational family incident was described. This biography claims that in 1979, Jackson and her two youngest children, Randy and Janet, confronted a woman who worked for Joseph's company, whom Jackson had often reportedly accused of cheating with Joseph. That incident was redramatized for the 1992 miniseries \"\". However, in the miniseries, Jackson was shown confronting Joseph instead of the woman about the alleged incident.\n\nIn the late 1980s, Jackson began experiencing an estrangement with her daughter La Toya after she was being managed by Jack Gordon. In her 1991 memoirs, \"\", La Toya alleged that Jackson was emotionally abusive, charges Jackson denied to the press and blamed Gordon, who married La Toya in 1989, for \"brainwashing\" her. In 1997, La Toya and Jackson reconciled after she filed for divorce from Gordon.\n\nJackson was portrayed by Angela Bassett in the 1992 miniseries \"The Jacksons: An American Dream\". Patricia Idlette portrayed her in the 2004 film \"\".\n\nJackson has spent the last couple of decades talking to the press defending her children, mainly Michael, who began to gain notoriety. In a recent interview promoting her \"Michael Jackson vip Book\"/DVD on \"The Oprah Winfrey Show\", however, Jackson acknowledged that she got her husband to admit to physically disciplining their children. Over the years, some claimed that Joe was abusive towards his children, which he has continually denied.\n\nJackson currently resides with the three children of her son Michael, and with her grandson T. J. Jackson, along with his family at her Calabasas, California, the home in which she has been living since 2011. Jackson had moved out of her Hayvenhurst home in Encino, California, due to house renovations.\n\nDespite rumors that she is estranged from Joe, she has denied it and dismissed rumors that Joe was banned from the Jackson family home as false, and something the media had tried to cook up. According to her son Jermaine Jackson's 2011 book (\"You Are Not Alone: Michael Through a Brother's Eyes\"), Jackson had told Michael that she was nearing the age of 80 and before she died, she wanted to see her sons perform together one last time. One of Michael Jackson's future plans as part of his deal with AEG Live was a final reunion tour with his brothers. She most recently appeared at the BET Awards 2015 with daughter Janet as she accepted the Ultimate Icon Award.\n\nKatherine's husband Joe Jackson died from pancreatic cancer on June 27, 2018, two days after the 9th anniversary of Michael Jackson's death.\n\nOn June 25, 2009, Michael died from an overdose of propofol under the supervision of his personal physician, Dr. Conrad Murray. Jackson, along with the rest of her family, attended his memorial on July 7, 2009. On June 29, 2009, Jackson was granted temporary guardianship of Michael's three children: Prince, Paris, and Blanket. Although Debbie Rowe, the biological mother of Michael's two oldest children, Prince and Paris, had not seen or interacted with the children for years; by July 4, 2009, Rowe petitioned the courts for custody of her two children with Michael. Court documents indicated that Debbie Rowe was also seeking control over Prince and Paris' interests in their father's estate. On July 30, 2009, Katherine Jackson and Debbie Rowe reached a settlement pertaining to the care of Michael's two oldest children (with Rowe), Prince and Paris; in which, the children will be raised by Katherine, and Rowe will have visitation rights and continue to receive the yearly payments to which Michael had agreed.\n\nOn August 3, 2009, the judge named Jackson as the children's permanent guardian. On July 25, 2012, Jackson's guardianship of the children was suspended by the court amid allegations that she may have been held against her will by several Jackson family members, as a result of a financial dispute between those family members and the Michael Jackson estate. Guardianship of the children was temporarily given to Michael's nephew, TJ, one of Tito's sons. [Katherine Jackson's] guardianship resumed with TJ Jackson added as a co-guardian. On November 1, 2017, Jackson resigned as co-guardian of Michael's youngest son, Blanket. Jackson stated her reasons for resigning included her own advanced age, the fact that Michael's oldest children (Prince and Paris) were now adults, and that Blanket was now 15 years old. TJ Jackson was, without objection, awarded sole custody of Blanket.\n\nTen children, seven sons and three daughters, were born to Katherine and Joe Jackson.\n\n"}
{"id": "54855155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54855155", "title": "Kona Williams", "text": "Kona Williams\n\nKona Williams (born ca 1978) is a forensic pathologist, the first First Nations person in that profession in Canada.\n\nThe daughter of Gordon Williams, a Cree from Peguis First Nation in Manitoba, and Karen Jacobs-Williams, a Mohawk from Kahnawake, she was born in Ottawa. She studied medicine at the University of Ottawa, received her M.D. in 2009, and spent five more years as an anatomical pathology resident there. She continued with a post-graduate fellowship in the department of laboratory medicine and pathobiology at the University of Toronto. In 2016, she was hired by the Ontario Forensic Pathology Service, which provides pathology services for the Ontario police forces.\n"}
{"id": "28743654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28743654", "title": "Lazar Grünhut", "text": "Lazar Grünhut\n\nLazar, Grünhut ( born at Gerenda, Hungary, May 10, 1850- died in Petah Tikva, February 2, 1913) Hungarian rabbi and writer. He is especially renowned for his research & publications in the field of Midrash.\n\nReceiving his diploma as rabbi while a mere youth, he went to Berlin, where he attended the lectures of Dr. Israel Hildesheimer at the rabbinical seminary, as well as those at the university. He graduated (Ph.D.) from the University of Bern. For eleven years he officiated as rabbi at Temesvár, Hungary.\n\nIn 1892, he moved to Jerusalem on invitation to be director of the Jewish orphanage at Jerusalem. There he was active in teaching and in Zionist political activism. He was active in the Mizrachi movement and was their representative in the Zionist Congress.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4720611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4720611", "title": "List of people from Guntur", "text": "List of people from Guntur\n\nThe article lists the people of importance from (or related to) the city of Guntur of the Indian state of Andhra Pradesh.\n\n\n\n\nChief ministers\n\n\nCentral ministers\n\n\nAssembly Speakers\n\nHome Ministers\n"}
{"id": "8858665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8858665", "title": "Louis Franck (politician)", "text": "Louis Franck (politician)\n\nLouis Marie François Franck (28 November 1868 – 31 December 1937) was a Belgian lawyer and liberal politician.\n\nHe was born in Antwerp, and began his education at the \"Koninklijk Atheneum\" (E: Royal Atheneum) of Antwerp, where he was influenced by the Flemish writer and liberal politician Jan van Beers, and he obtained a law degree at the Free University of Brussels (now split into the Université Libre de Bruxelles and the Vrije Universiteit Brussel). As a student, he was one of the co-founders of the secular humanist \"Cercle Universitaire\" (1887), he wrote for the \"Journal des Etudiants\" (1889) and in 1890 he was founder-President of the \"Cercle Universitaire de Criminologie\".\n\nIn 1890, he set up practice as a lawyer in Antwerp and specialized himself in international marine law. As the president of the \"Conférence du Jeune Barreau\" (E: League of young lawyers) and as a member of the \"Vlaamse Conferentie der Balie\" (E: Flemish bar league), he wanted to promote the use of Dutch in court (which was in French in those days). In 1899, he was one of the co-founders of the \"Bond der Vlaamsche Rechtsgeleerden\" (E: League of Flemish lawyers), of which he became President in 1912.\n\nIn 1906, he put himself candidate as a member of the Belgian parliament, of which he would remain a member up to 1926. He strived for a gradual improvement of the usage of the Dutch language in Flanders, such as with the law \"Franck-Paul Segers\" on the usage of Dutch in secondary education in the public schools (1910). Since then he fought on the side of the Roman catholic Frans Van Cauwelaert and the socialist Camille Huysmans (together they were called the \"three crowing cocks\") for the usage of Dutch at the University of Ghent. This brought him on the peak of its popularity in Flanders. In 1911, he was sworn in, as the candidate of the Antwerp liberal party, as a member of the municipal Council of Antwerp.\n\nIn 1915, he was co-founder and President of the \"Comité voor Hulp en Voeding\" (E: Committee of help and food) of the province of Antwerp and alderman for the Port of Antwerp. During the German occupation of Belgium in World War I, Franck (under the influence of the Belgian king and the government) acted as the President of a \"Intercommunale Commissie van Notabelen\", the actual head of Antwerp and the neighbouring municipalities. He conducted a careful policy where the language disputes (Dutch versus French) had to rest during the war. He openly condemned the collaboration with the Germans (Activism), and became the personification of the resistance in Flanders.\n\nAlthough he, in 1916, had said that the fight for the Flemish rights had to be continued after the war, he himself did not get involved with it anymore. After the war he became Minister of Colonies (1918–1924), and on 27 September 1926, he succeeded Fernand Hautain as governor of the National Bank of Belgium and together with Paul van Zeeland, he led this institute for many years in a dynamic but autocratic and self-opinioned way. Gustave Sap attacked the policy of the National Bank in his speech of 16 March 1937 and also the socialist politician Henri de Man attacked him on his policy in 1937. Louis Franck committed suicide at Wijnegem, while a judicial investigation was being conducted.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5699711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5699711", "title": "Mark Webber (actor)", "text": "Mark Webber (actor)\n\nMark Allen Webber (born July 19, 1980) is an American actor, screenwriter, and director known for his roles in the films \"Snow Day\", \"Weapons\", and \"Scott Pilgrim vs. the World\".\n\nWebber was born in Minneapolis, Minnesota, where he spent his early years. His mother, Cheri Lynn Honkala, is a noted advocate for the homeless in Philadelphia, and was the vice-presidential nominee of the Green Party in the 2012 presidential election. He was raised by his single mother in North Philadelphia. There they spent time homeless, living in cars and abandoned buildings, and struggling to survive during the harsh winters. Webber's life was subsequently the subject of a major news magazine story. He and his mother have been for many years and still are outspoken homeless advocates. They organize walk in protests, help to educate voters, and volunteer to help provide food and shelter to the urban poor in Philadelphia and elsewhere. Cheri Honkala ran for Sheriff of Philadelphia in 2011 with the Green Party on a \"no evictions\" platform.\n\nWebber began his acting career in 1998. He favors \"offbeat independent productions and challenging roles that involve intense characterization.\"\n\nWebber was formerly in a relationship with actress Frankie Shaw. They have a son together. The end of his relationship with Shaw inspired Webber to create his film \"The End of Love\", which starred Webber and his son and premiered at Sundance in January 2012. Webber and Shaw share joint custody of their son.\n\nIn September 2012, Webber began dating Australian actress Teresa Palmer after she contacted him via Twitter. They became engaged in August 2013, and married on December 21, 2013 in Mexico. They welcomed their first child, a son, born in February 2014. Webber and Palmer reside in the Beachwood Canyon community of Los Angeles. Their second son was born in December 2016.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1418065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1418065", "title": "Mary Young Cheney Greeley", "text": "Mary Young Cheney Greeley\n\nMary Young Cheney Greeley (1811 or 1814 – 1872) was the wife of American newspaper editor Horace Greeley.\n\nLittle is known of her early life. She was briefly a schoolteacher, and later an intermittent suffragette and spiritualist. She is reported to have been mentally unstable for much of her life. The date of her birth is uncertain, with some sources stating 1811 and others 1814.\n\nThey married in Warrenton, North Carolina, on July 5, 1836. Early in their marriage he used her $5000 in savings to fund his first private newspaper.\n\nThe marriage was not a happy one, and her oppressive relationship with her husband colored her life. He had little say in the running of the house, and avoided his wife and their house. However, he kept her almost constantly pregnant, but took no responsibility for the children. Five of their seven children died quite young, at least some of them of neglect.\n\n<includeonly>Mary </includeonly>Greeley was an advocate of the Graham Diet and a Spiritualist. Her behavior suggests she may have had clinical depression and Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder. She believed her son Arthur Young Greeley, known as \"Pickie\", was a spirit medium. She kept him isolated from the world and from other children, and constantly demanded that he relay communications from the afterlife. As he grew older he began to express a fierce anger towards his mother. After his death at age five from cholera, she hired the 11-year-old Kate Fox to stay at her house and contact him. Ms. Fox later wrote that she too disliked Mrs. Greeley intensely.\n\nShe suffered from \"consumptive lung disease\" for the last 20 years of her life, and died from it on October 30, 1872. Her husband, who was running for President of the United States at the time, died 30 days later.\n"}
{"id": "14518220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14518220", "title": "Mike Mohede", "text": "Mike Mohede\n\nMichael Prabawa Mohede (November 7, 1983 – July 31, 2016), better known as Mike, was an Indonesian singer and the winner of the second season of \"Indonesian Idol\". He represented Indonesia in \"Asian Idol\", losing to Hady Mirza of \"Singapore Idol\".\n\n\n\n\nMike died on July 31, 2016 at RS Premier Bintaro (Bintaro Premier Hospital) in South Tangerang, Indonesia from a heart attack. He was 32.\n\n"}
{"id": "8006766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8006766", "title": "Non-combatant evacuation operation", "text": "Non-combatant evacuation operation\n\nA non-combatant evacuation operation (NEO) is an operation conducted to evacuate civilians from another country, generally due to a deteriorating security situation.\n\n\n\nAccording to United States Military Joint Publication 3-68, \"Noncombatant Evacuation Operations\":\n\nThis means that at times American citizens may become endangered in locations outside of the United States. This is usually due to civil unrest or war. However, it may also be due to a natural disaster. The U.S. Ambassador has the responsibility, according to law, to request a NEO. Once he does, the government will determine whether or not the evacuation should be done with civilian resources, such as the Civil Reserve Air Fleet (CRAF), or with military forces. Even if military forces conduct the evacuation, the Ambassador remains in charge of the evacuation.\n\nThe method of evacuation could include sealift, airlift, or even by road.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28918124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28918124", "title": "Paatje Phefferkorn", "text": "Paatje Phefferkorn\n\nVerdi Phefferkorn von Offenbach (Bandung 1922), better known as ‘Paatje Phefferkorn’, is an iconic Indo (Eurasian) practitioner of the Indonesian martial art Pencak Silat in the Netherlands. As one of its best known teachers he has played an important role in increasing the popularity of this Martial Art in the Netherlands and Europe.\n\nPaatje Phefferkorn is also the creator of the informal Indo flag and emblem.\n\nIn 1931 at the age of 10 Phefferkorn started practicing Pencak Silat in Bandung, the Dutch East Indies. He became a prodigy and only Indo student at the Javanese Pencak Silat school of teacher Mr. Sumanto who practiced the style of ‘Setia Hati’. For 7 years he trained with Sumanto on a daily basis.\n\nWhen WWII broke out Phefferkorn enlisted as volunteer and became an air force armaments mechanic and air gunner. The aging Glenn Martin bombers at the secret airport of Samazinda where he was stationed were no match for the modern Japanese war machine and on 8 March 1942 he was made a POW.\nHe managed to escape the Japanese prisoner camp and fled to the Preanger mountains where he joined other resistance fighters to engage the Japanese in a guerilla war. Despite the fact he was half Indonesian his blue eyes revealed he was not Javanese and he was caught during a razzia by the Kempeitai.\nNon of the other resistance fighters survived Japanese imprisonment. Phefferkorn barely survived himself and after Japan's defeat in the war he only weighed 21 kilos.\n\nDue to the revolutionary violence during the Bersiap period following Japan's capitulation, he was initially unable to leave the prison camp, but was too frustrated with the fact that he had to be protected by Japanese guards that he stole weapons and escaped their protective custody. \nHe survived the Bersiap period and vainly attempted to build a home for his family during the chaotic years of the Indonesian Revolution. In one of the last so called repatriation waves he left Indonesia for the Netherlands.\n\nPenniless Phefferkorn arrived in the Netherlands with a family of 7 children and only continued the art of Pencak Silat for his personal training exercises. In 1967 he started a small school in the city of Utrecht. Soon he established a second school and in the end ran 17 schools throughout the Netherlands. He became part of the \"Council Of Elders\" advising the Dutch Pencak Silat union, BPSI (Bond Pencak Silat Indonesia). In 2013 he was officially inducted in the CBME's National Dutch Hall of Fame for Martial Artists.\n\nPhefferkorn is also known as the creator of the 'Indo Melati' flag and emblem. The flag represents communal pride and loyalty and overal peace and non-violence supported by signs of defensibility.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3942507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3942507", "title": "Pyotr Schmidt", "text": "Pyotr Schmidt\n\nPyotr Petrovich Schmidt (; – ) was one of the leaders of the Sevastopol Uprising during the Russian Revolution of 1905.\n\nPyotr Petrovich Schmidt was born in 1867 in Odessa, Russian Empire, now Ukraine, to the family of a naval officer. His father Pyotr Petrovich Schmidt Sr participated in the defense of Sebastopol during the Siege of Sevastopol (1854). His mother Yekaterina Yakovlevna Schmidt (born von Wagner) was of German descent. Schmidt spent his youth in Berdyansk, where his father was appointed mayor. In 1883 Schmidt Jr entered the Naval Officers' Corps in Saint Petersburg and after graduation enrolled in the Imperial Russian Navy. He resigned in 1888 and married Dominika Gavrilovna Pavlova. After the birth of his son Yevgeniy in 1889, the family moved to Taganrog, where Alexander Nentzel, manager of the Azov-Don Commercial Bank offered him a bookkeeper position. In 1893, Schmidt left Taganrog and enrolled again in the Imperial Russian Navy.\n\nThe uprising in the Black Sea Fleet was part of the Russian Revolution of 1905. Schmidt was a lieutenant commander of the destroyer \"Number 253\" in the Imperial Russian Navy. On 1 October 1905, he made a speech during a meeting in Sebastopol, urging the citizens to stand up for their rights and demanding the authorities free political prisoners. Participants of the meeting headed towards the city prison, where they were met with machine gun fire. In the following days, Pyotr Schmidt gave a speech at the special session of the Sevastopol City Council and at the cemetery during the funeral ceremony, where he was arrested. He was conveyed to the battleship \"Tri Sviatitelia\", which provoked protests and the authorities were forced to release him. On 7 November 1905, Schmidt was retired with the rank of captain (капитан 2 ранга).\n\nThe uprising continued and with the cruiser \"Ochakov\" in its center. On November 26, 1905 a mutiny began the cruiser, and its officers were expelled from the ship. Lieutenant Commander Schmidt, though not being a member of RSDRP, was invited to take command of the rebel ships, including the minelayer \"Griden\", gunboat \"Usuriets\", destroyers \"Zavetniy\", \"Zorkiy\", \"Svirepiy\", \"265\", \"268\", \"270\", training ship \"Dnestr\" and mine carrier \"Bug\". The same day, the Soviets of Sailors' and Soldiers' Deputies decided to start a Black Sea Fleet-wide mutiny and appoint Schmidt as Commander of the Fleet. On November 28, Pyotr Schmidt arrived on board the cruiser \"Ochakov\", which raised the red flag and the signal \"Commanding the Fleet\". The rebel squadron was also joined by the battleship \"Panteleimon\". The revolutionary forces made up some 8,200 vs. 10,000 government forces. Schmidt sent a telegram to Emperor Nicholas II of Russia:\n\nThe glorious Black Sea Fleet, sacredly devoted to the people, demands Your Majesty to immediately call a meeting of the Constituent Assembly (Учредительное собрание), and no longer obeys orders of Your ministers. Commander of the Fleet P. Schmidt.\n\nThe commander of the Imperial Russian forces, General Meller-Zakomelskiy, gave an ultimatum demanding immediate capitulation, but there was no reply. Three hours after the ultimatum, the government forces opened fire at rebel ships and barracks. In 90 minutes, the revolutionary squadron was defeated by the government ships led by the battleship \"Rostislav\". Schmidt and his 16-year-old son were captured, and all who remained alive were arrested. Next day, the government forces supported by artillery took the rebellion barracks.\n\nA closed hearing was held in February 1906 in a small fortress in the island of Tendra near Sebastopol. Schmidt and other leaders of the uprising were sentenced to death. He was executed on 19 March 1906 at Berezan Island by the crew of the gunboat \"Terets\". In 1922, Mikhail Stavraki, commander of the gunboat's firing squad was discovered in Batumi in possession of five fake passports in different names and old bank notes, by Cheka agents. The trial of Stavraki, who was Schmidt's classmate at the Naval Corps in St Petersburg, was held on 1 April 1923 in Sebastopol, while most of the witnesses and participants of the events were still alive. On 3 April 1923 the Military Board of the Supreme Court of the USSR sentenced Stavraki to death by firing squad.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25330", "title": "Quartet", "text": "Quartet\n\nIn music, a quartet or quartette (, , , , ) is an ensemble of four singers or instrumental performers; or a musical composition for four voices or instruments.\n\nIn Classical music, the most important combination of four instruments in chamber music is the string quartet. String quartets most often consist of two violins, a viola, and a cello. The particular choice and number of instruments derives from the registers of the human voice: soprano, alto, tenor and bass. In the string quartet, two violins play the soprano and alto vocal registers, the viola plays the tenor register and the cello plays the bass register.\n\nComposers of notable string quartets include Joseph Haydn (68 compositions), Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart (23), Ludwig van Beethoven (17), Felix Mendelssohn (6), Franz Schubert (15), Johannes Brahms (3), Antonín Dvořák (14), Alexander Borodin (2), Béla Bartók (6), and Dmitri Shostakovich (15). The Italian composer Luigi Boccherini (1743–1805), wrote more than 100 string quartets.\n\nLess often, string quartets are written for other combinations of the standard string ensemble. These include quartets for one violin, two violas, and one cello, notably by Carl Stamitz (6 compositions) and others; and for one violin, one viola, and two cellos, by Johann Georg Albrechtsberger and others.\n\nAnother common standard classical quartet is the piano quartet, consisting of violin, viola, cello, and piano. Romantic composers Beethoven, Brahms, and Mendelssohn each wrote three important compositions in this form, and Mozart, Dvořák, and Gabriel Fauré each wrote two.\n\nWind quartets are scored either the same as a string quartet with the wind instrument replacing the first violin (i.e. scored for wind, violin, viola and cello) or are groups of four wind instruments. Among the latter, the SATB format woodwind quartet of flute, oboe, clarinet, and bassoon is relatively common.\n\nAn example of a wind quartet featuring four of the same types of wind instruments is the saxophone quartet, consisting of soprano saxophone, alto saxophone, tenor saxophone and baritone saxophone or (SATB). Often a second alto may be substituted for the soprano part (AATB) or a bass saxophone may be substituted for the baritone.\n\nCompositions for four singers have been written for quartets a cappella; accompanied by instruments, such as a piano; and accompanied by larger vocal forces, such as a choir. Brahms and Schubert wrote numerous pieces for four voices that were once popular in private salons, although they are seldom performed today. Vocal quartets also feature within larger classical compositions, such as opera, choral works, and symphonic compositions. The final movement of Beethoven's Ninth Symphony and the Verdi Requiem are two examples of renowned concert works that include vocal quartets.\n\nTypically, a vocal quartet is composed of:\n\nThe baroque quartet is a form of music composition similar to the trio sonata, but with four music parts performed by three solo melodic instruments and basso continuo. The solo instruments could be strings or wind instruments.\n\nExamples of baroque quartets are Telemann's Paris quartets.\n\nQuartets are popular in jazz and jazz fusion music. Jazz quartet ensembles are often composed of a horn, classically clarinet (or saxophone, trumpet, etc.), a chordal instrument (e.g., electric guitar, piano, Hammond organ, etc.), a bass instrument (e.g., double bass, tuba or bass guitar) and a drum kit. This configuration is sometimes modified by using a second horn replacing the chordal instrument, such as a trumpet and saxophone with string bass and drum kit, or by using two chordal instruments (e.g., piano and electric guitar).\n\nIn 20th century Western popular music, the term \"vocal quartet\" usually refers to ensembles of four singers of the same gender. This is particularly common for barbershop quartets and Gospel quartets.\n\nSome well-known female US vocal quartets include The Carter Sisters; The Forester Sisters; The Chiffons; The Chordettes; The Lennon Sisters; and En Vogue. Some well-known male US vocal quartets include The Oak Ridge Boys; The Statler Brothers; The Ames Brothers; The Chi-Lites; Crosby Stills Nash & Young; The Dixie Hummingbirds; The Four Aces; Four Freshmen; The Four Seasons; The Four Tops; The Cathedral Quartet; Ernie Haase and Signature Sound; The Golden Gate Quartet; The Hilltoppers; The Jordanaires; and Mills Brothers. The only known U.S. drag quartet is The Kinsey Sicks. Some mixed-gender vocal quartets include The Pied Pipers; The Mamas & the Papas; The Merry Macs; and The Weavers.\n\nThe quartet lineup also is very common in pop and rock music. A standard quartet formation in pop and rock music is an ensemble consisting of two electric guitars, a bass guitar, and a drum kit. This configuration is sometimes modified by using a keyboard instrument (e.g., organ, piano, synthesizer) or a soloing instrument (e.g., saxophone) in place of the second electric guitar.\n\nA Russian folk-instrument quartet commonly consists of a bayan, a prima balalaika, a prima or alto domra, and a contrabass balalaika. Configurations without a bayan include a prima domra, a prima balalaika, an alto domra, and a bass balalaika; or two prima domras, a prima balalaika, and a bass balalaika. \n\n"}
{"id": "50921493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50921493", "title": "Riley Tufte", "text": "Riley Tufte\n\nRiley Jack Tufte (born April 10, 1998) is an American ice hockey player for the University of Minnesota Duluth. He formerly played for the Fargo Force (2014–16). Tufte was drafted in the first round, 25th overall, of the 2016 NHL Entry Draft by the Dallas Stars.\n\nTufte was born and grew up in Coon Rapids, Minnesota with three siblings and his mother Amy, who is a nurse. At the age of 11, Tufte was diagnosed with Type 1 diabetes. As a child, he received an inspirational letter from retired NHL player Toby Petersen who also suffered from diabetes.\n\nTufte played for Blaine High School in Minnesota, where he was awarded the 2015–16 Mr. Hockey Award in his senior year after he led all of Minnesota Class AA in goals scored. He also played two seasons for the Fargo Force of the USHL, accumulating 19 points in 34 games, before deciding to go back to high school for his senior year. In March 2016, Tufte was invited to Team USA's 2016 National Junior Evaluation Camp, to prepare for the 2016 World Junior Ice Hockey Championships, however he broke his wrist during camp and could not play. Despite this, Tufte became the highest NHL draft pick in the history of the Fargo Force when he was drafted in the first round of the 2016 NHL Entry Draft. Instead of going pro right away, Tufte decided to pursue higher education at the University of Minnesota Duluth.\n\nTufte missed the beginning of his freshman season due to an injury but he completed the season with 16 points. He was off to a stronger start in his sophomore season, leading the team in scoring as they advance through the NCAA Men's Ice Hockey Championship.\n\nTufte's played in both the 2014 Under-17 Five Nations Cup and the 2014 World U-17 Hockey Challenge. He helped Team USA place second in the 2014 Under-17 Five Nations Cup.\nTufte competed in the 2015 Ivan Hlinka Memorial Tournament for Team USA, who finished fifth in the tournament. He later competed at the 2018 World Junior Ice Hockey Championships where he helped Team USA secure a bronze medal.\n\n"}
{"id": "46920399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46920399", "title": "Robbi Sapinggi", "text": "Robbi Sapinggi\n\nRobbi Sapinggi (1984 – 5 June 2015) was one of four Malaysian mountain guides who died on Mount Kinabalu during the 2015 Sabah earthquake which claimed the lives of at least 18 people, mostly pupils and teachers from Tanjong Katong Primary School in Singapore, and injured 10 others. The quake struck at about 7:15am (MST) at Ranau, Sabah, Malaysia. Robbi gained notability in the media when he died in an apparent attempt to save a tourist climber from falling rocks. He has been portrayed and praised as a hero for his act of bravery and sacrifice. His body was found by emergency rescuers at about 4:00pm local time near Laban Rata about 20m from where it was believed he was hit by hurtling rocks during the earthquake. \n\nMany other mountaineers who had come across the guide over the years have described him as selfless, compassionate, sacrificial, fun-loving, energetic, enthusiastic and a dedicated mountain guide who put the interest of others before his. Tourists who have visited Mount Kinabalu have recounted his various sacrifices to ensure their safety and comfort while climbing the mountain. Cath Jayasuriya, executive director of Coalition Duchenne that brings together organisations around the world in attempts to raise global awareness on Duchenne muscular dystrophy said:\nRobbi was buried on 7 June 2015 at his village of Kiau in Kota Belud at about 2:30pm. He is survived by a six-months-old son and his wife, Reena Joshi, whom he married in September 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "10525494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10525494", "title": "Stephana de Quinzanis", "text": "Stephana de Quinzanis\n\nThe Blessed Stephana de Quinzanis, T.O.S.D., (variant spellings include Stephanie, Stefana; also, Quinzani) (1457 – 2 January 1530) was an Italian Dominican Sister, stigmatic and mystic.\n\nShe was born in 1457 in Brescia, Italy, to Lorenzo de Quinzanis and his wife, who were a poor and pious couple. Her father became a member of the Third Order of St. Dominic while Stephana was very young. While accompanying him on visits to the Dominican monastery in nearby Soncino, she met the stigmatic friar, the Blessed Matthew Carrieri, O.P., who instructed her in the catechism. Carrieri told her that she would be his spiritual heiress, a statement she did not understand for many years. She began receiving visions of Dominican saints from age seven, at which point she made vows of poverty, chastity and obedience. In a subsequent miraculous experience in 1464, Christ appeared to her, accompanied by Mary and Dominican Saints St. Dominic, St. Thomas Aquinas, and St. Catherine of Siena, presenting her with a wedding ring, signifying her mystical marriage. Carrieri died when Stephana was 14 years old; soon after he appeared to her in a vision, and she herself received the stigmata.\n\nDe Quinzanis started to work as a servant for her living, but she continued in her formation in the Third Order, and at age 15 made her profession at the Dominican priory in Soncino. Her devotion to the poor and sick led her to found a community of Third Order Sisters there. She served as its first prioress.\n\nHer counsel was sought by many, including Saint Angela Merici, foundress of the Ursulines, also the Blessed Augustine Fangi, O.P., as well as her fellow Dominican tertiary and mystic, the Blessed Osanna of Mantua. She participated in various stages of the Passion of Jesus Christ, which was attested to by 21 witnesses in 1497 in a still extant account, written in the vernacular, and entitled \"Relazione dell'Estasi della Passione\". Sources state that although Stephana was \"ugly\", she had magnificent hair. Grudging herself this one beauty, she pulled it out by the roots.\nDe Quinzanis had a particularly intense devotion to Saint Thomas Aquinas. In fact, to overcome the temptation of thoughts against purity, she once threw herself upon a cartload of thorns in imitation of the \"Doctor Angelicus\". Exhausted from this penance, she prayed to Saint Thomas, and, according to legend, was girded by angels with a cord, which they tied so tightly around her waist that she cried out in pain.\n\nThough she had no formal theological training, she could discuss mystical theology at the most profound level. She is considered a patron saint for theologians. It is said that she could read the hearts and minds of the people around her, and had the gift of prophesy and healing. She lived in a nearly continuous fast. She accurately predicted the date of her own death, which occurred from natural causes on 2 January 1530.\n\nDe Quinzanis' tomb became a pilgrimage site almost immediately. Her intercession was often felt in the convent that she had founded, where the sisters obtained both material and spiritual help through her intercession.\n\nHer cult was popularized by the Dominicans Bartholomeo of Mantua and Battista of Salò, but their Latin \"vitae\" have been lost, and only a later Italian version which combined the two texts has survived. Her \"cultus\" was confirmed by Pope Benedict XIV on 14 December 1740.\n\n"}
{"id": "340774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=340774", "title": "Steve Urkel", "text": "Steve Urkel\n\nSteven Quincy Urkel is a fictional character on the ABC/CBS sitcom \"Family Matters\" who was portrayed by Jaleel White. Originally slated to have been a one-time only character on the show, he soon broke out to be its most popular character and gradually became its protagonist. Due to the Urkel character's off-putting characteristics and the way he's written to stir up events and underscore the plot or even move it along, he is considered a nuisance by the original protagonist's family, the Winslows, though they come to accept him over time.\n\nThe character is the epitome of a geek or nerd of the era, due to traits such as large, thick eyeglasses, flood pants held up by suspenders, multi-colored cardigan sweaters, and a high-pitched voice. He professes love for his neighbor Laura Winslow, who is a character in the main family of the series, but this love of his is written as a accent on or trigger for events and crises, and is therefore very unrequited. \n\nFor the Urkel character's debut through the rest of the series' run, he is central to many of its running gags, primarily property damage and/or personal injury as a result of his inventions going awry or his outright clumsiness. He becomes known by viewers and characters alike for several catchphrases uttered after some humorous misfortune occurs, including \"I've fallen and I can't get up!\", \"Did I do that?\" \"Whoa, Mama!\" and \"Look what you did!\" (on occasions when someone else caused the damage, though usually the accident was indirectly caused by Urkel). \n\nIn syndication, Steve Urkel first appeared on the 4th episode of the first season, \"Rachel's First Date\" (as the show staff wanted to more naturally introduce him to audiences upon repeated viewings). On the 12th episode of the first season, \"Laura's First Date\", he reappears as a nerdy young boy who takes Laura Winslow out on a date. While he is madly in love with her, Laura finds Steve grating and doesn't return his affection. While intended as a minor character, Urkel became very popular for his oddball antics. He soon became a recurring character, and joined the main cast beginning with the season two premiere \"Rachel's Place\".\n\n\"Family Matters\" co-creator Michael Warren named the character after his friend, writer and director Steve Erkel. Due to the show and the character's tremendous popularity during the early 1990s, Erkel encountered difficulties using his own name; he received many prank phone calls from \"Laura\" asking for \"Steve\", and businesses found his name to be suspicious. Warren stated that had he known that the character would reappear for years he would not have named him after his friend.\n\nAn archetypal nerd, Steve Urkel is characterized as kind and well-meaning, but bungling and a meddler. He is fiercely protective of and obsessed with his unrequited love Laura Winslow, and this admiration extends to the rest of the Winslow family. However, Steve is comically clumsy and inept and his attempts to help the Winslows usually go awry. This puts him at odds with the family patriarch Carl, who routinely throws Urkel out of his house.\n\nLater episodes suggest that Steve's attachment to the Winslows stems from his bad relationship with his own family. Urkel often hints that most of his relatives, including his (unseen) parents, despise him and refuse to associate with him. This culminates in the two moving to Russia without him, whereupon he moves in with the Winslows.\n\nUrkel dresses unfashionably for someone his age (he is most commonly seen wearing suspenders, brightly colored shirts, and high water pants) and has a number of eccentric hobbies and interests, including Polka dancing and accordion playing. Unlike his friends, he has little interest in popular culture and athletic endeavors.\n\nWhile he is unpopular with his schoolmates, Urkel is a brilliant student and is on a first-name basis with his teachers. He is a genius inventor as well, and his fantastical but unreliable gadgets (including a transformation device and a time machine) are central to many \"Family Matters\" plots and gags.\n\nDuring the episode \"Dr. Urkel and Mr. Cool,\" in a takeoff on The Nutty Professor films, Urkel devises a plan to win Laura's heart: transforming his DNA using a serum, which suppresses his \"nerd genes\" and brings out his \"cool\" genes. This results in the alter ego known as Stefan Urquelle, played by Jaleel White in more casual attire. Initially, Laura is enamored with the smoother Stefan, but asks that he turn back into Steve when Stefan's self-centeredness makes itself apparent.\n\nSteve improves the formula in the season five episode \"Stefan Returns\" to reduce its negative effects on his personality, and invents a \"transformation chamber\" allowing him to become Stefan at will. He would change into Stefan several times – even while dating Myra – but some circumstance would force Steve to turn into his normal self again. With his narcissistic tendencies toned down, Laura falls deeply in love with Steve's alter-ego.\n\nIn the seventh-season finale \"Send in the Clones,\" Steve creates a cloning machine and winds up creating a perfect duplicate of himself. Myra is initially excited, but eventually realizes that two Steves are just too much. To clear up the situation, Laura proposes that one of the Steves be permanently turned into Stefan, so that she and Myra can both be with the one they love. This Stefan becomes a recurring character and eventually proposes to Laura in the ninth season. After weighing her choices in the flashback episode \"Pop Goes the Question,\" Laura chooses Steve over Stefan. Stefan departs and is not seen again.\n\nSteve had been in love with Laura since they were in kindergarten. However, she did not always reciprocate the feelings that he had for her and would date other guys more to her taste. Unlike Greta's successful warding off of Myrtle, Laura's would-be boyfriends would often bully Steve, but it always ends with him warding them off, especially when he knows most of them would end up hurting her in the end and refused to allow them to take advantage of her. Steve has shown that, unlike Myrtle, he does respect Laura's personal space. However, she has shown appreciation for Steve when he selflessly risked himself to not only protect her, but also has saved her father's life. In the ninth-season episode \"Out With the Old,\" he finally gets himself a makeover in time for Laura's charity bachelor auction, and, though it was not a success, her feelings for him finally changed, and they eventually become engaged to be married by \"Pop Goes the Question\" later that season.\n\nSteve had a short and brief relationship with Susie in season two, but their relationship ended when he introduced her to the president of the chess club. In the season three episode \"The Love God,\" Vonda Mahoney also became interested in him after he tutored her for a class. Fearing that she wants to make herself \"easy\" for Eddie to date, Steve teaches her the dangers of it and helps her have love and self-respect for herself. Although Vonda felt better about herself, this did not sit well with Eddie, who wanted to pound Steve for it.\n\nIn season four's \"A Thought In The Dark\", Steve was set up with Ted's cousin, Myra Monkhouse (played by Michelle Thomas) so Laura could have some space from his infatuation. Although he was initially attracted to Myra because of her intelligence and sweet personality, he was soon disgusted by her jealous and possessive nature by the end of \"Buds 'N Buns\". This was explored in both seasons five and nine, when Steve finally saw what life was like in not only Laura's shoes, but in sense the Winslows as well. Though in love with him, Myra was also frustrated with Steve and asked him why he even loves Laura. When he agrees to go steady with her in season six's \"Paradise Bluff\", she did somewhat revert to the sweet, intelligent girl he was originally attracted to. By season nine, he grows apart from her as he matures and Laura started to return the feelings he had for her. In \"Breaking Up Is Hard To Do,\" during their date at the restaurant Amour, it became clear to Steve that Myra hated his makeover and demanded that he return to the sexy nerd she loved so much. When he refused, she broke up with him first, although it later turned out to be a ploy so she could get him to renounce his love for Laura and stay with her. When that failed, Myra resorted to stalking and spying on him with illegal surveillance gear in her room with a spy cam attached to his glasses. In \"Crazy For You,\" she teamed up with Stefan to stop Steve and Laura's date. Although initially successful, Laura still wanted to date him and Myra vowed never to stop stalking him until he took her back. In the following episode \"Crazier For You,\" Steve has learned that Myra was spying on him and confronted her about it. He orders her to stop stalking him and renounce her love for him because he will never take her back and reaffirms his love for Laura. She refused and got Laura falsely arrested for stealing her watch. However, Steve was able to drop the charges when he exposed Myra for stalking him with illegal spy gear and the police pursued criminal charges against her. When she learned of his engagement to Laura, she continued to carry the torch even when he went into space. However, when she tried to pretend to be Urkel's fiancée, she is caught by an unseen Stefan.\n\nIn 2010, Westside Middle School in Memphis, Tennessee outlined its dress code policy on sagging pants, asking students to pull them up or get \"Urkeled\", a reference to the character. In this practice, teachers would forcibly pull students' pants up and attach them to their waist using zip ties. Students would also have their photo taken and posted on a board in the hallway, for all of their classmates to view. In an interview with NBC affiliate WMC-TV, Principal Bobby White stated that the general idea is to fight pop culture with pop culture. One teacher at the school claimed to have \"Urkeled\" up to 80 students per week, although after five weeks the number dropped to 18.\n\nIn syndication, Steve is incorporated into the teaser scene of \"Rachel's First Date\"; his first appearance in the original broadcasts is in the 1989 episode \"Laura's First Date\", in which Carl and Eddie separately set up dates for Laura for a dance or party (both terms are used in the episode), and the first thing known about him is that he allegedly ate a mouse, and he later makes reference to a mouse when speaking to Carl, implying that it might be true. Prior to Steve Urkel's introduction, the show was on the brink of cancellation due to mediocre ratings. After Urkel was introduced, several scripts had to be hastily rewritten to accommodate the character, while several first-season episodes that had been completed had new opening gag sequences filmed featuring Steve trying to push open the Winslows' front door while the family holds it shut. The addition of Steve immediately helped the show boost its modest ratings. White was credited as a guest star in the first season and became a regular member of the cast in season two.\n\nThe Urkel Dance was a novelty dance that originated in the season two episode \"Life of the Party\". It was based around the character of Steve Urkel and essentially incorporated movements which made the dancer's posture more like his. The lyrics instructed the dancer how to pose:\n\n\"If you want to do the Steve Urkel dance,\nAll you have to do is hitch up your pants,\nBend your knees, and stick out your pelvis;\n(I'm telling you, baby, it's better than Elvis!)\".\n\nThe dance was popular enough to appear on another show, \"Step by Step\", when the Steve Urkel character appeared in a crossover in the season one episode \"The Dance\".\n\nJaleel White also performed the song, in character as Steve Urkel, on the 5th Annual American Comedy Awards. Bea Arthur (from \"Maude\" & \"The Golden Girls\") joined him on stage to \"Do The Urkel,\" after which she said, \"Hey MC Hammer, try and touch that!\"\n\nA promotional cassette single of the song that accompanies the dance was pressed and distributed in limited numbers. A T-shirt was also produced featuring lyrics and Urkel's likeness.\n\nRick Sanchez pays some form of homage to The Urkel Dance with \"The Rick Dance\" in the Rick and Morty episode Ricksy Business.\n\n\nAt the height of his popularity, Urkel's name was branded to several products including a short-lived fruit flavored cereal known as Urkel-Os and a Steve Urkel pullstring doll. There was also a T-shirt line that was created in 2002, but was discontinued shortly after its inception.\n\nIn 1999, \"TV Guide\" ranked Urkel #27 on its list of the \"50 Greatest TV Characters of All Time\". In 2004, he was listed at #98 in Bravo's \"100 Greatest TV Characters\".\n"}
{"id": "55897738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55897738", "title": "Tenille Campbell", "text": "Tenille Campbell\n\nTenille K. Campbell is a Dene and Métis poet and a photographer from English River First Nation. Her artistic works often focus on Indigenous people in Canada. She is the photographer behind Sweetmoon Photography, where she specializes in capturing photographs of Indigenous people. Her photography has appeared in \"Radio Canada International,\". \"University of Saskatchewan News\", and \"Eagle Feather News\". Additionally, a photograph from her series entitled \"Urban Indigenous Woman\" was selected as the cover image for the second edition of \"A Recognition of Being\" by Kim Anderson\".\" Her portrait photography portfolio includes work with Chelsea Rooney and Roseanne Supernault.\n\nShe is also the co-creator of \"tea&bannock\", a blog which was \"born out of a desire for a sense of community with other Indigenous women photographers — a place that feels like you are sitting around a table, enjoying tea and bannock.\"\n\nPoetry\n\n\nShe holds an MFA in Creative Writing from the University of British Colombia; where she studied with Richard Van Camp. Her MFA dissertation was titled \"Nuniyé Tehlgh-th : land of the wolf\", and was a \"young adult novel tells the story of Kelly Estatheneh, a young Dene woman living at the English River First Nation reserve in Northern Saskatchewan.\" As of November 2017, she is a PhD candidate in the Department of English at the University of Saskatchewan. Her PhD research is focused on Indigenous Literature.\n\nIn 2017, she was named one of CBC Saskatchewan's \"Future 40\"\n"}
{"id": "7616373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7616373", "title": "Ulaş Bardakçı", "text": "Ulaş Bardakçı\n\nUlaş Bardakçı (1947–19 February 1972) was a socialist revolutionary and a founding member of communist organisation THKP-C in Turkey.\n\nUlaş Bardakçı was born in 1947 in Hacıbektaş, Turkey. He attended METU in where he was introduced to communist ideas. He followed a Marxist-Leninist path. He was active in the formation of the revolutionary youth organization Dev-Genç. In late 1970 he actively participated in the foundation of THKP-C along with Mahir Çayan and he participated in the initial armed actions of THKP-C\n\nIn May 1971 Ulaş Bardakçı, along with Mahir Çayan kidnapped the Israeli ambassador to Turkey, Ephraim Elrom. They demanded their comrades who were imprisoned following the military coup to be freed. Their demands were not met and Ephraim Elrom was killed by Bardakçı and his comrades. Following the 'Operation Hammer', intended to rescue Elrom, Bardakçı was captured and imprisoned.\n\nUlaş Bardakçı, along with five other revolutionaries imprisoned with him, escaped from military prison in November 1971. Following his escape, he preceded to ensure that THKP-C kept its visionary views in Istanbul.\n\nUlaş Bardakçı's hideout was surrounded by police forces on 19 February 1972. He did not surrender, and he was killed by the police before dawn.\n"}
{"id": "37570651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37570651", "title": "Yinchang", "text": "Yinchang\n\nYin Chang or Yin-ch'ang (traditional Chinese: '; simplified Chinese: '; pinyin: Yìnchāng) (1859–1928) was a military official and politician in the Qing Dynasty and the Republic of China. He was appointed the nation's first Minister of War in the late Qing Dynasty. Later he also became the military Chief of Staff in the Beiyang Government. He was ethnic Manchu, and his family belonged to the Plain White Banner Clan of the Manchu Military Organization (); he held the title of Prince of that clan; at court he was addressed as Wu-lou.\n\nOriginally Yin Chang was a student of Guozijian, and by 1872 he was studying German at the Tongwen Guan, Beijing. In 1877 he was sent to Germany as an attaché to the Chinese Legation in Berlin. During his stay in Germany he studied military science at the same time as Wilhelm II and formed an association with the Krupp family. (He later married a German woman, with whom he had a daughter.) In 1884 he returned to China and was appointed to the Tientsin Naval Academy ; by December of that year he served as translator for the German military envoy to the Emperor.\n\nIn June 1885 Yin Chang was appointed an instructor in military science at the Tientsin Military Academy 天津武備學堂, introducing the study of German military techniques taught by German officers. The following year he was promoted to be superintendent of the academy. The President of the Republic of China Feng Guozhang was a student under his direction. In 1898, when Prince Heinrich of Prussia and his naval squadron came to China, Yin Chang negotiated German claims on the region of Kiaochow and the port of Tsingtao and had Prince Heinrich presented at court. In winter 1899, he headed the negotiations with Germany for railway and mining rights in Shandong () and the concession in Tsingtao. These negotiations became part of the Boxer Protocol, which was signed September 7, 1901, in Beijing . These terms were later integrated into the Tientsin Protocol, which in 1918 became part of the peace treaty with Germany that ended World War I. Later in 1901 Yin Chang was named Lieutenant-General commanding the Plain White Banner Garrison ().\n\nIt is said that during the Boxer Rebellion, when the Eight-Nation Alliance stormed Beijing to relieve the besieged Legations, Yin Chang, with his German-equipped soldiers, escorted the Emperor and the Empress Dowager Cixi to safe passage through the back gates of the Forbidden City into Shaanxi Province, where the foreigners could not reach her. In August 1901 he was appointed the Chinese Ambassador to Germany (Berlin) . In September 1901, by Imperial Edict , Yin Chang accompanied Zaifeng, Prince Chun to Germany with the special mission to convey China's regret to Kaiser Wilhelm II for the murder of Baron Clemens von Ketteler during the Boxer Rebellion. The mission proved a success, and Prince Chun was eagerly greeted by crowds The Kaiser accorded Prince Chun a splendid reception, which included inviting him to review the military maneuvers of 50,000 troops in Danzig The international press covered his every step. During Ambassador Yin Chang's time in Germany, Kaiser Wilhelm II took a personal interest in the problems of modernizing a country’s military forces. The Kaiser taught Yin Chang much about the organization, training, discipline, and equipment of a modern army. During this time, Yin Chang was sent as ambassador to the Netherlands for a term. Back in Germany he arranged a state visit to China for Prince Adalbert of Prussia. In 1905 he was recalled and returned to China and was appointed the director of the Nobles' College () in Beijing. In 1905 he changed the traditional uniforms of the Chinese Army to uniforms modeled on those of the German Army . At the same time, he ordered arms and ammunition from Krupp . Yin Chang was one of the reformers who abolished the Imperial Examination in the effort to modernize Chinese education, enabling educated students to choose a profession, including the military. In September 1906 he became Commander-in-Chief in Jiangbei (), and two months later, became Army Chief of Staff(). In September 1908 he was reappointed as Chinese Ambassador to Germany, but because of the autumn military manoeuvres in Anhwei and the death of the Emperor and of the Dowager Empress Cixi, he did not proceed to his post until Spring 1909. In 1910 Yin Chang was recalled to China when he was appointed as acting President of the Board of War ().\n\nIn September In 1910 Yin Chang was the Chief of Staff of all the Army divisions stationed in the vicinity of Beijing (). Three months later, Yin Chang became the first Minister of War in Prince Qing's Cabinet by consolidating the different branches of the military under his aegis. As Minister of War Yin Chang set out to achieve three objectives: 1) greater efficiency and economy in his ministry; 2) improvement to the military profession; 3) establishing a national chain of command for the military under the ministry. To instill a sense of professionalism he ordered all officers to wear uniforms at work. They also had to use military salutes on all occasions, official and civil. He did succeed in fostering a sense of patriotism throughout the Army as evidenced by a new respect and pride in the military profession.\n\nAs the first Minister of War, Yin Chang was dedicated to educating the population of the country with general information about the military and the function and responsibilities of the army. He wanted to create a sense of patriotism by making the military a subject in schools, and the Imperial University added a military course to the curriculum. He required military drills and instruction as well as physical education included in the curriculum of middle and primary schools. Yin Chang’s efforts at reform encountered opposition from traditionalists, officials protecting their interests and sinecures, and provincial governments guarding their power. The Manchu Dynasty fell before the results of his work became evident. Different aspects of it were taken up by succeeding regimes for their own purposes. \n\nIn May 1911 Yin Chang attained the rank of full general but also remained in the Cabinet. On the outbreak of the Xinhai Revolution in August of that year, General Yin Chang was appointed Commander-in-Chief of the Imperial forces and sent to quell the revolutionary army in Hubei. However, his command of the army of the Qing Dynasty was countermanded by Prime Minister Yuan Shikai as soon as he reached the front together with his troops, thus leaving vital weapons and ammunition factories unprotected. On his return to Beijing he was appointed Chief of the General Staff but resigned from his post as Yuan established his Cabinet. It has been speculated that had Marshal Yin Chang been allowed to remain in Hubeii, the revolution might not have been a success.\n\nWhen the monarchy was abolished in 1912, Yin Chang resigned his post in the cabinet on the Day of the Princes, when one Mongol and eight Manchu princes collectively resigned. After the establishment of the Republic of China, Yin Chang was invited to be the High Diplomatic Advisor of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Even while serving as an official of the Republic, as a private citizen, with a relationship to Prince Chun, Yin Chang pledged undying loyalty to the deposed Emperor, Pu-Yi. In December 1912 Yin Chang was reappointed a Full General and was appointed to be Military Chief of Staff to President Yuan Shikai (), a position he resigned in 1915 when Yuan Shikai declared himself Emperor. In December 1917 he became Commander in Chief of the General Staff for the Republic. In January 1919 he was reappointed to Military Chief of Staff to the President by Xu Shichang, a position he held for succeeding presidents Li Yuan-hung, Feng Kuo-chang, and Hau Shih-chang. In the last years of his life he served as Military Adviser to Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek. In October 1923 he received the title of Marshal with \"Zhuang Wei\" (). He died in Beijing in 1928.\n\n"}
