{"id": "6874743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6874743", "title": "6Q0B44E", "text": "6Q0B44E\n\n6Q0B44E, sometimes abbreviated to B44E, is a small object, probably an item of space debris, that is currently orbiting Earth outside the orbit of the Moon as of October 2016.\n\n6Q0B44E was first observed by Catalina Sky Survey researchers at the Lunar and Planetary Laboratory of the University of Arizona on 28 August 2006. The sighting was confirmed the next day by observations at the Siding Spring Survey and Table Mountain Observatory.\n\nThe object is just a few metres across and has been provisionally classified as artificial. 6Q0B44E orbits Earth between 585,000 and 983,000 km, which is 2 to 3 times the distance of the Moon's orbit, over a period of 80 days. Its density has been estimated as around 15 kg/m, too low for natural rock and comparable to that expected for an empty fuel tank.\n\n6Q0B44E was spotted at what is believed to be the brightest part of its orbit, at 19th magnitude. As the object moves away from Earth, its brightness falls on a six-month cycle down to 28th magnitude, severely limiting study of its composition.\n\nEphemerides calculated from the observations suggest that 6Q0B44E probably entered the Earth–Moon system between 2001 and 2003, although it may have arrived up to a decade earlier. Similarities between the discoveries of 6Q0B44E and J002E3, now believed to be part of the Apollo 12 rocket, have led some astronomers to speculate that 6Q0B44E may be another relic of human space exploration which has returned to Earth orbit. However, no space mission has been identified as the source of 6Q0B44E.\n\n"}
{"id": "23296477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23296477", "title": "Aerotoxic Association", "text": "Aerotoxic Association\n\nThe Aerotoxic Association was founded on 18 June 2007, at the British Houses of Parliament by former BAe 146 Training Captain John Hoyte, to raise public awareness about the ill health allegedly caused after exposure to airliner cabin air that he claimed been contaminated to toxic levels, by engine oil leaking into the bleed air system, which pressurizes all jet aircraft, with the exception of the Boeing 787.\n\nIn addition to providing help and support to aircrew and passengers, the Aerotoxic Association promotes known technical solutions, such as toxic air detectors, and campaigns for changes in regulations to improve the quality of cabin air on airliners.\n\nThe phrase \"aerotoxic syndrome\" was first coined by Chris Winder and Jean-Christophe Balouet in 2000, to describe the ill health allegedly caused by exposure to air which they claimed had been contaminated by jet engine oil.\n\nIn contrast to the claims of the Aerotoxic Association \"Studies such as the European CabinAir project have shown that normally the levels of chemical and biological contaminants in aircraft are less than in many work environments such as office buildings.\"\n\nThat report examined all exposures dating back to 1943 which showed that all documented exposures were to high concentrations, greatly in excess of the amount present in jet engine oil. He also noted that studies in Canada and the USA were unable to detect TCP in the cabin during flight. Prof Bagshaw notes that the symptoms are \"largely the same as those reported by participants in all phase I drug trials\", and are similar to the symptoms experienced by patients suffering from chronic fatigue syndrome, gulf war syndrome, Lyme disease, chronic stress and chronic hyperventilation.\n\n\"A syndrome is a symptom complex, consistent and common to a given condition. Sufferers of the ‘aerotoxic syndrome’ describe a wide range of inconsistent symptoms and signs with much individual variability. The evidence was independently reviewed by the Aerospace Medical Association, the US National Academy of Sciences and the Australian Civil Aviation Safety Authority Expert Panel. All concluded there is insufficient consistency to establish a medical syndrome and the ‘aerotoxic syndrome’ is not recognised in aviation medicine.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "8742032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8742032", "title": "Anne Pratt", "text": "Anne Pratt\n\nAnne Pratt (5 December 1806 – 1893) was a botanical and ornithological illustrator and author from Strood, Kent. The second of three daughters of Robert Pratt (1777–1819), a grocer, and Sara Bundock (1780–1845), Pratt was one of the best known English botanical illustrators of the Victorian age. Owing to poor health and a 'stiff knee' in childhood, she missed out on 'outdoor activities' and was encouraged to occupy herself by drawing. Anne Pratt was educated at Eastgate House, Rochester, and introduced to botany by Dr. Dods, a family friend. She moved to Brixton, London, in 1826, where she developed her career as an illustrator. She settled in Dover in 1849, then in East Grinstead in 1866, where she married John Pearless; they then moved to Redhill. Anne Pratt died in Shepherd's Bush, London.\n\nAnne Pratt wrote more than 20 books, which she illustrated with chromolithographs on which she collaborated with William Dickes, an engraver skilled in the chromolithograph process. Her works were written in popular style but were said to be accurate, and are partly responsible for the popularising of botany in her day. From her first book, \"Flowers and Their Associations\", her work sold well, but she never achieved critical acclaim, owing to prejudice against her on the grounds that she was self-taught. Her masterpiece is probably \"The Flowering Plants, Grasses, Sedges, and Ferns of Great Britain and Their Allies the Club Mosses, Pepperworts, and Horsetails\", a six-volume project covering more than 1500 species, with 300 illustrations, that took over a decade to publish in full (1855–1873). This work had a remarkably long life as a standard reference work: the illustrations of ferns in the final volume continued to be used into the second half of the twentieth century, appearing, unattributed and in very much reduced in size and in half tone, in the \"Observer's Book of [British] Ferns\" \n\n"}
{"id": "56053762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56053762", "title": "Atomic Energy Research Establishment (Bangladesh)", "text": "Atomic Energy Research Establishment (Bangladesh)\n\nAtomic Energy Research Establishment is a government nuclear research station in Bangladesh and is located in Savar Upazila, Bangladesh. It was built to develop skilled manpower trained in the uses of nuclear resources. It is under the control of Bangladesh Atomic Energy Commission and it is the largest institute under the commission.\n\nPresident Sheikh Mujibur Rahman ordered the establishment of an atomic research institute in 27 January 1973. Most of the research centres and educational institutions of Pakistan Atomic Energy Commission were in West Pakistan. After the Bangladesh Liberation war, Bangladesh only possessed were Atomic Energy Centre in Dhaka, Bangladesh Institute of Nuclear Agriculture and three nuclear medical centres. Atomic Energy Research Establishment was established in 1975 at Ganakbari, Savar Upazila, Dhaka District. It was placed under the administration of Bangladesh Atomic Energy Commission, which had been facing manpower shortages since the Independence of Bangladesh in 1971. \n\nIn 1986 a 3 MWth TRIGA Mark-II research reactor was added to the establishment. The institution campus also has an AERE clinic, a Central Administration Division building, and a Central Finance and Accounts Division building. In 1999 the plan was placed to build Energy Unit, Central Engineering Workshop, and Central Library to add to the establishment.\n\nThere are 12 independent institutions in its Savar campus that research nuclear related fields\n"}
{"id": "22063020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22063020", "title": "Bahá'í gardens", "text": "Bahá'í gardens\n\nBahá'í gardens can be found at Bahá'í Holy Places in Israel and elsewhere, and at Bahá'í Houses of Worship. Many Bahá'í holy places in Haifa and around Acre, Israel were inscribed on the World Heritage List in July 2008. Below a description of the most important gardens is given.\n\nThe Terraces of the Bahá'í Faith, also known as the Hanging Gardens of Haifa, are garden terraces around the Shrine of the Báb on Mount Carmel in Haifa, Israel. They are one of the most popular destinations for visitors to Israel. The architect is Fariborz Sahba from Iran, the structural engineers are Karban and Co. from Haifa.\n\nFariborz Sahba began work in 1987 designing the gardens and oversaw construction. The terraces were opened to the public in June 2001. Beginning at its base, the gardens extend almost a kilometre up the side of Mount Carmel, covering some 200,000 square metres of land. The gardens are linked by a set of stairs flanked by twin streams of running water cascading down the mountainside through the steps and terrace bridges.\n\nThe gardens have elements of the Persian gardens of Shiraz, Iran, the Nishat Bagh gardens of Kashmir, India and English gardens, isolating the site from the noise of the surroundings and connecting the different Bahá'í buildings on Mount Carmel together.\n\nThe Monument Gardens, set within the Arc gardens at the Bahá'í World Centre on Mount Carmel, are a set of gardens which hold the graves of some of the members of the Bahá'í holy family.\n\nThe Mansion of Bahjí (Arabic: \"delight\") is a summer house near Acre, Israel, where Bahá'u'lláh, founder of the Bahá'í Faith died in 1892. His shrine is located next to this house. The whole area was called \"Al-Bahjá\" (\"Place of Delight\"). The site has since been beautified with paradise gardens, which are called \"Haram-i-Aqdas\" (the Most Holy Precincts or Sanctuary) and are intersected by a circular path which serves to circumambulate the shrine. The Mansion, shrine, and surrounding gardens are among the most sacred spots on earth for Bahá'ís and are Bahá'í pilgrimage sites.\n\nThe Shrine of Bahá'u'lláh is composed of a central area that contains a small, tree-filled garden surrounded by paths covered with Persian rugs. A glass roof was constructed by Qulám-‘Alíy-i-Najjár after the death of Bahá'u'lláh. At the northwest corner of the central area there is a small room where Bahá'u'lláh's remains are laid to rest.\n\nThe Garden of Ridván (lit. garden of paradise) is a Bahá'í holy place situated just outside Acre. Originally known as the 'garden of Na‘mayn', it was rented by `Abdu'l-Bahá (Bahá'u'lláh's son) for Bahá'u'lláh where he enjoyed spending the later part of his life, after years in a desolate prison cell. Although it shares the same name it does not have the same significance of the Garden of Ridván in Baghdad and no connection to the festival of Ridván.\n\nDuring the 1930s and 1940s the island setting of the garden disappeared, as a result of a draining project against malaria. In 2010 a three year restoration and conservation project of the garden and the original water canals surrounding it was completed, after which the Ridvan Garden, referred to by Bahá'u'lláh as 'Our Verdant Isle', became an island once again.\n\nThe Garden of Ridván or Najibiyyih Garden was a wooded garden in what is now Baghdad's Rusafa District, on the banks of the Tigris river. It is notable as the location where Bahá'u'lláh stayed for twelve days from April 21 to May 2, 1863, after the Ottoman Empire exiled him from Baghdad and before commencing his journey to Constantinople. During his stay in this garden, Bahá'u'lláh announced to his followers that he was the messianic figure whose coming had been foretold by the Báb. These events are celebrated annually during the Festival of Ridván.\n\nBahá'í House of Worship, sometimes referred to by its Arabic name of Mashriqu'l-Adhkár (\"Dawning-place of the remembrance of God\"), is the designation of a place of worship, or temple, of the Bahá'í Faith. All Bahá'í temples are surrounded by gardens.\n"}
{"id": "11393812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11393812", "title": "Bromodifluoromethane", "text": "Bromodifluoromethane\n\nBromodifluoromethane or Halon 1201 or FC-22B1 is a gaseous trihalomethane or a hydrobromofluorocarbon.\n\nIt can be prepared be reaction of hydrogen and dibromodifluoromethane at temperature in range 400–600 °C.\n\nCritical point data: T = 138.83 °C (411.98 K); p = 5.2 MPa (51.32 bar); V = 0.275 dm.mol.\n\nBromodifluoromethane was used as a refrigerant and in fire extinguishers. It is a class I ozone depleting substance with ozone depletion potential ODP = 0.74. It was banned by Montreal Protocol in 1996.\n\n"}
{"id": "54267828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54267828", "title": "Brothers of the Wind", "text": "Brothers of the Wind\n\nBrothers of the Wind is a 2015 Austrian coming of age-drama film directed by Gerardo Olivares and Otmar Penker and starring Jean Reno, Manuel Camacho and Tobias Moretti.\n\nIn the 1960s, in an undetermined place in the Alps, an eagle couple has two hatching eggs. When both eaglets are born, their mother knows that she must only raise one as their successor. In an ensuing fight with another eagle, the eaglets' father dies when he crashes to the ground. One of the eaglets shortly falls from the nest, and his mother, due by nature to maintain the survivor, ignores the eaglet's cry for help.\n\nIn the meantime, forester Danzer (Jean Reno) meets with a boy named Lukas (Manuel Camacho) and his father Keller (Tobias Moretti). They both live in a new house in the mountains, after the death of Maria (Eva Kuen), mother of Lukas and Keller's wife, as a result of a fire. Keller, gravely afflicted by the death of his wife, fails to live in harmony and understanding with his son, who takes refuge more and more in nature, avoiding contact with his father. As a retreat Lukas constantly goes to the remains of his old house, where he often sees the photograph of his deceased mother.\n\nAs Lukas' dog Scout is taking a walk in the forrest, Lukas comes across the eaglet, and Lukas decides to raise him to full health. Lukas takes the eaglet to his old house to take care of him. Danzer also meets the eaglet, and decides to help Lukas for the affection he feels for him.\n\nThe forester tells Lukas that the food he has given the eaglet is not good. He also tells him to give sunlight to the eaglet. When a fox sneaks in and kills Keller's hens, he angrily chases Lukas. Lukas, fearful for the safety of the eaglet, goes to his family's hut. Lukas rescues the eaglet from the attacking foxes. As Lukas stays and reads his family's Bible, he comes across the story of Cain and Abel. Aptly fitting the eaglet's own story, Lukas names it Abel.\n\nAs Lukas takes care of Abel, Danzer arrives and invites Lukas to go live with him during the summer and also allows Abel to come with them. He gives Lukas a restrain to be able to catch Abel. When Lukas and Abel arrive, Lukas sees a portrait of a young boy and an eagle. Lukas catches a fish with his own hands for Abel, but Abel lets it slip away. In the meantime, Abel's mother hunts foxes and weasels for both her and her son.\n\nAs both Abel and his brother grow their new pair of wings, Lukas tries to help Abel fly. Eventually Abel starts to soar in the air. Lukas decides to spend that night in his old house. Next day, however, Abel is missing. Lukas then sees Abel fly around. Abel perches on top of a rock, but as Lukas tries to reach Abel, Abel flies away, making Lukas sad. Danzer tries to comfort Lukas by saying Abel only wants to experience the wild, but confesses he doesn't really know what will be of Abel.\n\nAbel tries to hunt a chamois but fails. As Lukas ponders about Abel's whereabouts, he realizes the two dangers Abel will face; his father's shotgun, and Abel's own brother, whom Lukas has symbolically named Cain. After three days, Abel finally returns to Lukas. Danzer offers to help Lukas how to teach Abel to hunt. Keller, however, complains of Danzer's methods, and warns him. Regardless, they still train Abel with a makeshift method.\n\nLukas and Danzer get scared when they think Abel is trying to hunt Scout, but later they see Abel simply hunted a weasel. Danzer, nevertheless, tells Lukas that Abel will have to leave someday, and Lukas sadly agrees. As Lukas and Danzer take a blindfolded Abel to an unknown part of the mountains, Lukas bids a farewell to Abel. After taking the blindfold, they let Abel fly.\n\nIn winter, Abel learns to hunt and feed himself. Lukas, remembering his animal friend, later finds a small memorial that he made with a pile of rocks and one of Abel's feathers. As he awakens from sleeping, Lukas sees a wolf nearby. As Lukas runs away, he accidentally steps on a bear trap. Danzer, who happens to be nearby, scares the wolf away with his rifle and helps Lukas heal. Unfortunately, the rift between Lukas and Keller grows wider.\n\nDanzer tells the story of the \"Brothers of the Wind\" to Lukas. Lukas wonders how the story ends. Danzer believes that even after knowing the last page they would still not know the outcome.\n\nLukas decides to leave Keller. Unfortunately, as he leaves, Keller finds him, and asks Lukas to light a match for him. When Keller lights the match, Lukas believes that Keller killed his mother by arson. As Lukas escapes into the mountains, Keller goes afer him. Lukas searches for Abel, but a rock slide started by a fox stops Lukas from climbing the mountain. A lightning strikes nearby, knocking Lukas unconscious. Abel soars over him, and Keller wakes him up, stating he is sorry for his ill treatment. An eagle appears to be killed by the rock slide.\n\nTwo years later, Lukas and Keller walk by. Lukas says he feels Abel still lives, but Keller tells him he was the dead eagle of the rock slide. Keller then tells Lukas to stretch his arm. Flying above, Abel appears and perches on Lukas' arm. Lukas, deciding it is time to let Abel go for good, takes off a bracelet he put on Abel's foot long time ago. As Danzer watches from the distance, Abel soars into the sky. Finally, Abel and a female eagle await the arrival of a new hatch, thus continuing the circle of life.\n\n"}
{"id": "20430226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20430226", "title": "Calgary downtown district energy", "text": "Calgary downtown district energy\n\nThe Calgary Downtown District Energy Centre is a thermal district energy system under development by Calgary-based ENMAX with funding support from provincial and federal government programs. The first central thermal plant to supply the system is under construction at the corner of 4th Street and 9th Avenue SE in Calgary, Alberta, Canada. Although the groundbreaking ceremony for the project took place in early fall of 2008, major construction activities did not commence until late November. The first phase of the system is expected to be operational in 2009, supplying thermal energy to meet the space and domestic hot water heating needs of selected new and existing buildings in Calgary's downtown.\n\nThe Centre will be owned by a subsidiary of ENMAX, which will develop and operate the facility and its related thermal distribution system.\n\n"}
{"id": "1620610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1620610", "title": "California Current", "text": "California Current\n\nThe California Current is a Pacific Ocean current that moves southward along the western coast of North America, beginning off southern British Columbia and ending off southern Baja California Peninsula. It is considered an Eastern boundary current due to the influence of the North American coastline on its course. It is also one of five major coastal currents affiliated with strong upwelling zones, the others being the Humboldt Current, the Canary Current, the Benguela Current, and the Somali Current. The California Current is part of the North Pacific Gyre, a large swirling current that occupies the northern basin of the Pacific.\n\nThe movement of Alaskan and northern ocean currents southward down the west coast results in much cooler ocean temperatures than at comparable latitudes on the east coast of the United States, where ocean currents come from the Caribbean and tropical Atlantic. The cooler ocean current along the west coast also makes summer temperatures cooler on the west coast compared to the east coast. For example, Half Moon Bay at 37 degrees latitude has no month with an average high above and San Francisco often stays below in summer, while Virginia Beach, VA close to the same latitude has six months when high temperatures are above .\n\nAdditionally, extensive upwelling of colder sub-surface waters occurs, caused by the prevailing northwesterly winds acting through the Ekman Effect. The winds drive surface water to the right of the wind flow, that is offshore, which draws water up from below to replace it. The upwelling further cools the already cool California Current. This is the mechanism that produces California's characteristic coastal fog and cool ocean waters. As a result, ocean surf temperatures are much colder along the Pacific coast than the Atlantic coast. For example, the average July SST (sea surface temperature) at New York City at 40.7 degrees latitude is , while at the same latitude in Eureka, CA is . As such, ocean surf temperatures are rarely above during the summer along the California coast south to San Diego, while they are often above on the east coast from North Carolina southward.\n\nThe cold water is highly productive due to the upwelling, which brings to the surface nutrient-rich sediments, supporting large populations of whales, seabirds and important fisheries. Winds of the appropriate direction and strength to induce upwelling are more prevalent in the presence of Eastern boundary currents, such as the California Current. Phytoplankton production is dramatically increased in these areas because the nutrient-rich water lying below the pycnocline is relatively close to the surface and is thus easily upwelled. Scientists at Scripps Institution of Oceanography said in 2011 that the average surface temperature of the water at Scripps Pier has increased by almost 3 degrees since 1950.\n\nThe \"Bakun upwelling index\" is based on a 20-year average of the monthly mean Ekman transport for different regions off the California coast. It ranges from 300 meters-cubed/second (in the offshore direction) to −212 meters-cubed/second (toward the coast, or onshore direction). There is year-round upwelling off Southern California's coast, but it is strongest in the summer months. Off the coast of Oregon and Washington, there is forceful downwelling in the winter months, and upwelling in the region is restricted to the months of April through September.\n\nPrimary production is a topic of interest among those who study the California Current. In their study, Hayward and Venrick (1982) found great variability in both biomass and the productivity of phytoplankton in the California Current. The differences observed by Hayward and Venrick in carbon-fixation rates (0.2–2.0 grams carbon/(meter-squared × day)) show the heterogeneous nature of the California Current, with its combination of advected (see advection) and upwelled water. Several studies have investigated the carbon flow from primary production to the pelagic fish stocks which depend on the California Current. Lasker (1988) described powerful \"jets and squirts\" off northern and central California. These 'jets and squirts' move large quantities of cold, nutrient rich water offshore. This water then gets carried by the southward bound California Current and adds significant primary production to the sardine population.\n\nA narrower, weaker counter current, the Davidson Current, occasionally moves somewhat warmer water northwards during the winter months. During El Niño events, the California Current is disrupted, leading to declines in phytoplankton, resulting in cascading effects up the food chain, such as declines in fisheries, seabird breeding failures and marine mammal mortality (Schwing et al., 2003). In 2005, a failure in the otherwise predictable upwelling events, unassociated with El Niño, caused a collapse in krill in the current, leading to similar effects (Schwing et al., 2003).\n\nWithin the Southern California Bight a sub-region of the California Current has unique physical properties. Upwelling is fairly weak in the California Bight and Smith and Eppley (1982) stated that the 16-year average for primary production was 0.402 grams carbon/(meter-squared × day), or approximately 150 grams carbon/(meter-squared × year). Further, Smith and Eppley (1982) found that the highest daily rates of temperature decrease were correlated with the maximum amount of upwelling. Digiacomo and Holt (2001) used satellite images to study the mesoscale and sub-mesoscale eddies in the Southern California Bight. Their work showed that all eddies were less than 50 km in diameter and 70% of all eddies measured less than 10 km. The eddies appeared to be caused mostly by topography (particularly islands), wind, and instabilities in the current. The location of these eddies was mainly between the California Current (flowing toward the equator) and the coastline. The majority of these eddies were cyclonic and had the ability to induce the upwelling of nutrient-rich water. Small scale topographic features such as headlands have been shown to cause substantial effects on the population dynamics of benthic invertebrates, such a change in the settlement patterns of crabs and sea urchin.\n\nIn the 2016 Disney/Pixar animated film \"Finding Dory\", the California Current is portrayed as a superhighway that fish and sea turtles use to travel to California . The characters Marlin, Nemo, and Dory join a group of sea turtles in using the California Current, by way of the East Australian Current, to help them travel to Morro Bay, California.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56936055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56936055", "title": "Chapel of the Prophet Elias, Mount Olympus", "text": "Chapel of the Prophet Elias, Mount Olympus\n\nNear the summits of Mount Olympus lies the chapel of the Prophet Elias (Greek) Εκκλησάκι του Προφίτη Ηλία). The Orthodox Church celebrates the saint on July 20.\n\nThe 2803 meter high peak of Profitis Ilias (Προφίτης Ιλίας) is located near the highest peaks of Mount Olympus (Mytikas and Stefani). The closest mountain huts are the Apostolidis Hut (430 meters away) and the Christos Kakkalos Hut (around 600 meters away).\n\nSaint Dionysius, founder of the Monastery of the Holy Trinity (nowadays known as Monastery Agios Dionysios), also founded the chapel of the Prophet Elias in the 16th century. It was built on the ruins of an ancient structure. Dionysus, who practised an ascetic life, is said to have lived in the church at times. The chapel is the highest ecclesiastical building of the Orthodox Church worldwide.\n\nThe chapel was built on the top of Mount Profitis Ilias; the main building materials were the surrounding stones. The floor of the chapel is covered with stone slabs, the outer walls are made of layered stones, without further connecting material. Covered with stone slabs, the roof is supported by a solid wooden construction to support the snow load. An atrium is protected on the eastern and southern sides by a natural stone wall, which has an entrance on the north side. The low entrance to the chapel is on the south side of the building. \n\nInside hang some icons; a small altar, framed by icons depicting saints of the Orthodox Church, gives believers the opportunity to light a candle.\n"}
{"id": "47514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47514", "title": "Cloud albedo", "text": "Cloud albedo\n\nCloud albedo is a measure of the albedo of a cloud. Higher values indicate that a cloud reflects a larger amount of solar radiation and transmits a smaller amount of radiation. Cloud albedo depends on the total mass of water, the size and shape of the droplets or particles and their distribution in space.\n\nCloud albedo, along with the greenhouse effect of clouds, strongly influence the Earth's energy budget.\n\nThick clouds (such as stratocumulus) reflect a large amount of incoming solar radiation, meaning they have a high albedo. Thin clouds (such as Cirrus) tend to transmit most solar radiation, so have low albedo.\n\nStudies have shown that cloud liquid water path varies with changing cloud droplet size, which may alter the behavior of clouds and their albedo. The variations of the albedo of typical clouds in the atmosphere are dominated by the column amount of liquid water and ice in the cloud. Cloud albedo varies from less than 10% to more than 90% and depends on drop sizes, liquid water or ice content, thickness of the cloud, and the sun's zenith angle. The smaller the drops and the greater the liquid water content, the greater the cloud albedo, if all other factors are the same.\n\nAddition of cloud nuclei by pollution can lead to an increase in solar radiation reflected by clouds. Increasing aerosol concentration and aerosol density increases cloud droplet concentration, decreases cloud droplet size, and increases cloud albedo. In macrophysically identical clouds, a cloud with few larger drops will have a lower albedo than a cloud with more smaller drops.\n\nThe cloud albedo increases with the total water content or depth of the cloud and with the solar zenith angle. The variation of albedo with zenith angle is most rapid when the sun is near the horizon, and least when the sun is overhead. Absorption of solar radiation by plane-parallel clouds decreases with increasing zenith angle because radiation that is reflected to space at the higher zenith angles penetrates less deeply into the cloud and is therefore less likely to be absorbed.\n"}
{"id": "21898535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21898535", "title": "Cold rubber", "text": "Cold rubber\n\nCold rubber, or cold polymerized rubber, is synthetic rubber (especially, SBR and NBR) emulsion polymerized at a relatively low temperature.\n\nThe polymerizing temperature is approximately 5℃ in the case of SBR and 5∼10℃ in the case of NBR. \nSince rubber molecule types have a smaller number of branches than hot rubber polymerized at high temperature (50℃) and are characterized by good stereoregularity, cold rubber has superior processability as well as the ability to produce vulcanized materials with good tensile strength, expansion and aging resistance, and flex resistance.\n\nExcept some SBR and NBR used for special purposes, most SBR and NBR available in the market are considered cold rubber.\n"}
{"id": "11345129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11345129", "title": "Dibromodifluoromethane", "text": "Dibromodifluoromethane\n\nDibromodifluoromethane is a mixed halomethane. It is a colorless non-flammable liquid.\n\nAlong with Halons 1211, 2402, and 1301, it is the most effective fire extinguishers, however, also the most toxic one.\n\nIt is a class I ozone depleting substance (ODS).\n\n"}
{"id": "2262154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262154", "title": "Doppler broadening", "text": "Doppler broadening\n\nIn atomic physics, Doppler broadening is the broadening of spectral lines due to the Doppler effect caused by a distribution of velocities of atoms or molecules. Different velocities of the emitting particles result in different Doppler shifts, the cumulative effect of which is the line broadening.\nThis resulting line profile is known as a Doppler profile. A particular case is the thermal Doppler broadening due to the thermal motion of the particles. Then, the broadening depends only on the frequency of the spectral line, the mass of the emitting particles, and their temperature, and therefore can be used for inferring the temperature of an emitting body.\n\nSaturated absorption spectroscopy, also known as Doppler-free spectroscopy, can be used to find the true frequency of an atomic transition without cooling a sample down to temperatures at which the Doppler broadening is minimal.\n\nWhen thermal motion causes a particle to move towards the observer, the emitted radiation will be shifted to a higher frequency. Likewise, when the emitter moves away, the frequency will be lowered. For non-relativistic thermal velocities, the Doppler shift in frequency will be:\n\nwhere formula_2 is the observed frequency, formula_3 is the rest frequency, formula_4 is the velocity of the emitter towards the observer, and formula_5 is the speed of light.\n\nSince there is a distribution of speeds both toward and away from the observer in any volume element of the radiating body, the net effect will be to broaden the observed line. If formula_6 is the fraction of particles with velocity component formula_7 to formula_8 along a line of sight, then the corresponding distribution of the frequencies is\n\nwhere formula_10 is the velocity towards the observer corresponding to the shift of the rest frequency formula_11 to formula_12. Therefore,\n\nWe can also express the broadening in terms of the wavelength formula_13. Recalling that in the non-relativistic limit formula_14, we obtain\n\nIn the case of the thermal Doppler broadening, the velocity distribution is given by the Maxwell distribution\n\nwhere formula_16 is the mass of the emitting particle, formula_17 is the temperature and formula_18 is the Boltzmann constant. \n\nThen,\n\nWe can simplify this expression as\n\nwhich we immediately recognize as a Gaussian profile with the standard deviation\n\nand full width at half maximum (FWHM)\n\nIn astronomy and plasma physics, the thermal Doppler broadening is one of the explanations for the broadening of spectral lines, and as such gives an indication for the temperature of observed material. Other causes of velocity distributions may exist, though, for example due to turbulent motion. For a fully developed turbulence, the resulting line profile is generally very difficult to distinguish from the thermal one.\nAnother cause could be a large range of \"macroscopic\" velocities resulting, e.g., from the receding and approaching portions of a rapidly spinning accretion disk. Finally, there are many other factors which can also broaden the lines. For example, a sufficiently high particle number density may lead to significant Stark broadening.\n\nDoppler broadening can also be used to determine the velocity distribution of a gas given its absorption spectrum. In particular, this has been used to determine the velocity distribution of interstellar gas clouds. \n\nDoppler broadening has also been used as a design consideration in high temperature nuclear reactors. In principle, as the reactor fuel heats up, the neutron absorption spectrum will broaden due to the relative thermal motion of the fuel atoms with respect to the neutrons. Given the shape of the neutron absorption spectrum, this has the result of reducing neutron absorption cross section, reducing the likelihood of absorption and fission. The end result is that reactors designed to take advantage of doppler broadening will decrease their reactivity as temperature increases, creating a passive safety measure. This tends to be more relevant to gas cooled reactors as other mechanisms are dominant in water cooled reactors.\n\n"}
{"id": "1392475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1392475", "title": "Dry-bulb temperature", "text": "Dry-bulb temperature\n\nThe dry-bulb temperature (DBT) is the temperature of air measured by a thermometer freely exposed to the air, but shielded from radiation and moisture. DBT is the temperature that is usually thought of as air temperature, and it is the true thermodynamic temperature. It indicates the amount of heat in the air and is directly proportional to the mean kinetic energy of the air molecules. Temperature is usually measured in degrees Celsius (°C), kelvins (K), or degrees Fahrenheit (°F).\n\nUnlike wet bulb temperature, dry bulb temperature does not indicate the amount of moisture in the air. In construction, it is an important consideration when designing a building for a certain climate. Nall called it one of \"the most important climate variables for human comfort and building energy efficiency.\"\n\nDBT is an important variable in Psychrometrics, being the horizontal axis of a Psychrometric chart.\n\n"}
{"id": "499393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=499393", "title": "Federal Department of Environment, Transport, Energy and Communications", "text": "Federal Department of Environment, Transport, Energy and Communications\n\nThe Federal Department of Environment, Transport, Energy and Communications (DETEC, , , , ) is one of the seven departments of the Swiss federal government, headed by a member of the Swiss Federal Council.\n\nThe Department is composed of the following offices:\n\n\nThe following independent authorities are affiliated to the DETEC for administrative purposes:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1853139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853139", "title": "Flandrian interglacial", "text": "Flandrian interglacial\n\nThe Flandrian interglacial or stage is the name given by geologists and archaeologists in the British Isles to the first, and so far only, stage of the Holocene epoch (the present geological period), covering the period from around 12,000 years ago, at the end of the last glacial period to the present day. As such, it is in practice identical in span to the Holocene. Present climatological theory (based on analysis of Milankovitch cycles) forecasts that the present Flandrian climate should decline in temperature towards a global climate similar to that of the ice age. Less orbital eccentricity may have the effect of moderating this temperature downturn.\n\nThe Flandrian began as the relatively short-lived Younger Dryas climate downturn came to an end. This formed the last gasp of the Devensian glaciation, the final stage of the Pleistocene epoch and is traditionally seen as the latest warm interglacial in a series that has been occurring throughout the Quaternary geological period. \n\nThe first part of the Flandrian, known as the Younger Atlantic, was a period of fairly rapid sea level rise, known as the Flandrian transgression and associated with the melting of the Fenno-Scandian, Scottish, Laurentide and Cordilleran glaciers.\n\nFjords were formed during the Flandrian transgression when U-shaped glaciated valleys were inundated with water.\n\n"}
{"id": "57758246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57758246", "title": "Fox-1D", "text": "Fox-1D\n\nFox-1D, AO-92 or AMSAT OSCAR 92 is an American amateur radio satellite. Fox-1D is a 1U CubeSat developed and built by AMSAT-NA. Fox-1D carries a single-channel transponder for mode U/V in FM. Fox-1D has an L-band converter (the AMSAT L-band downshifter experiment), which allows the FM transponder to be switched on an uplink in the band.\n\nTo enable it to launch under NASA's ELaNa (Educational Launch of Nanosatellites) program, the satellite continues to carry the following scientific and technical payloads:\n\n\nThe satellite has a rod antenna for the and band, as well as an antenna for the band.\n\nThe satellite was launched on January 12, 2018 at 03:59 UTC with a PSLV XL rocket, along with the main payloads Cartosat-2F, NovaSAR-S, and 31 other small satellites from the Satish Dhawan Space Center, India. At 05:17 UTC, the antennas were deployed over the North Pole and the satellite began to work. At 05:28 UTC the first telemetry was received. Commissioning is scheduled for approximately two weeks. After that Fox-1D should be available for connections between amateur radio stations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2458941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2458941", "title": "Fuel mix disclosure", "text": "Fuel mix disclosure\n\n]According to the European Union's Internal Market in Electricity Directive from July 1, 2004, electric power consumers must be informed about the sources from which the electricity they have purchased was generated. Additionally, consumers must be informed about the amount of carbon dioxide emitted into the Earth's atmosphere and/or the quantity of nuclear waste produced as a result of the generation of the electricity that they have purchased.\n\nThe exact presentation of the data provided, be that in tables or charts, and the number of types of electricity generation listed are at the discretion of the EU Member States.\n\nFuel mix disclosure aims to allow customers to differentiate between electricity supply companies and switch supplier as part of the wider programme of EU electricity liberalization.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34991512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34991512", "title": "Great South Australian Coastal Upwelling System", "text": "Great South Australian Coastal Upwelling System\n\nThe Great South Australian Coastal Upwelling System is a seasonal upwelling system in the eastern Great Australian Bight, extending from Ceduna, South Australia, to Portland, Victoria, over a distance of about . Upwelling events occur in the austral summer (from November to May) when seasonal winds blow from the southeast. These winds blow parallel to the shoreline at certain areas of the coast, which forces coastal waters offshore via Ekman transport and draws up cold, nutrient-rich waters from the ocean floor.\n\nBecause the deep water carries abundant nutrients up from the ocean floor, the upwelling area differs from the rest of the Great Australian Bight, especially the areas offshore of Western Australia and the Nullabor in South Australia, which are generally nutrient-poor. Every summer, the upwelling sustains a bountiful ecosystem that attracts blue whales and supports rich fisheries.\n\nThe Great South Australian Coastal Upwelling System (GSACUS) is Australia's only deep-reaching coastal upwelling system, with nutrient-enriched water stemming from depths exceeding .\n\nRecently, a new upwelling centre has been discovered on the western shelf of Tasmania. Since this new upwelling centre is located outside South Australian waters, the entire upwelling system should be rather called the Great Southern Australian Coastal Upwelling System.\n\nDuring the austral summer, high-pressure systems over the Great Australian Bight cause southeasterly winds to blow over the coasts of Victoria and South Australia. When winds blow parallel to the shoreline, Ekman transport pushes water to the left of the wind direction (in the southern hemisphere), which in this case is westward and offshore. To replace the water moving offshore, cold waters from the ocean floor rise to the surface. During upwelling events, local sea surface temperature drops by 2-3 degrees Celsius.\n\nKey upwelling centres form in three different locations, described in the sub-sections below; the Kangaroo Island and Eyre Peninsula centres are linked by the same upwelling process. Upwelling events occur nearly simultaneously across the three separate centres, appearing within a few days of each other, despite spanning a distance of approximately . While the Bonney Upwelling, where the strongest and most reliable upwelling events occur, was reported and explored over 30 years ago, the full extent of the upwelling system was discovered only as recently as 2004.\n\nThe Bonney Upwelling is the largest and most predictable upwelling in the GSACUS. It stretches from Portland, Victoria to Robe, South Australia. The continental shelf is narrow offshore of the \"Bonney Coast\" - only about from the shore to the continental slope - and deep water is funneled to the surface through a series of submarine canyons.\n\nUpwelling at Kangaroo Island and the Eyre Peninsula is different than at the Bonney Upwelling. Here, the continental shelf is generally much wider than at the Bonney Coast - up to wide off the Eyre Peninsula - and water is not drawn directly from the seafloor to the surface. Instead, field data and hydrodynamic modelling suggest that the upwelling follows from a chain of processes. This chain of processes starts in the deep submarine canyons of the Murray Canyon Group, located south of Kangaroo Island, where localized sub-surface upwelling brings a pool of cold water from the abyssal plains up to the continental shelf. This dense-water pool, named the \"Kangaroo Island Pool\", drifts along the shelf bottom just offshore of Kangaroo Island and the Eyre Peninsula. When a classical wind-driven upwelling event occurs, normally two to three times a summer, cold water is upwelled from the pool, not directly from the ocean floor.\n\nExtensive upwelling of nutrient-rich water makes the GSACUS an important marine hot spot on Australia's southern shelves. During upwelling events, the abundance of the GSACUS ecosystem can approach that of some of the world’s most productive upwelling centers, such as those offshore of Peru, California, and Namibia.\n\nDuring upwelling events, surface chlorophyll a concentrations, an indicator of phytoplankton abundance, increase tenfold. Phytoplankton blooms bring about swarms of krill, which in turn attract blue whales. Blue whales are found in various locations off the southeast coast of Australia, but most predominantly in the Bonney Upwelling region, which is one of 12 identified blue whale feeding sites worldwide. Marine biologist Peter Gill estimates that 100 blue whales visit the Bonney Upwelling area every year, ranging over of ocean from Robe, South Australia to Cape Otway in Victoria. The feeding grounds may extend further northwest, encompassing the rest of the GSACUS, but incomplete whale surveys are insufficient to establish their true range.\n\nOther marine life that thrives in the upwelling includes filter feeders like sponges, bryozoans, and corals. These animals feed predators such as seabirds, fishes, Australian fur seals, and penguins. The upwelling plays also an important role in the life cycle of juvenile southern bluefin tuna (\"Thunnus maccoyii\"), which accumulate in the eastern Great Australian Bight during the upwelling season and feed on sardines (\"Sardinops sagax\") and anchovies (\"Engraulis australis\"). Furthermore, the many dead organisms that fall to the continental shelf support populations of southern rock lobster and giant crab.\n\nThe GSACUS supports a productive fishery, and local fishers recognize the bounty that the upwelling provides them. Every November, Portland, Victoria hosts an Upwelling Festival to celebrate the abundance of the Bonney Upwelling, and to begin the summer fishing season.\n\nHumans have exploited the GSACUS for thousands of years. Oral histories of local Aboriginal tribes indicate a close connection to the ocean, and said tribes may possibly have eaten beached whales. The Convincing Ground massacre, which took place near Portland, Victoria in 1829, arose over a dispute between European whalers and the Gunditjmara people over ownership of a beached whale. Beginning in the mid-1840s, whaling and sealing were established as organized industries off the Bonney Coast.\n\nToday, southern rock lobster (referred to locally as crayfish) and trawling are the most important fishing industries in the Bonney Upwelling. whereas the upwelling off the Eyre Peninsula supports a large sardine fishery, operating chiefly out of Port Lincoln, South Australia.\n\nNext to the Great Barrier Reef, the GSACUS and its ecosystem can be regarded as one of Australia's natural wonders. Due to its importance as a blue whale feeding and aggregation site, in 2002 the Bonney Upwelling was listed as critical habitat \"requiring effective protection from user impacts\" under Australia's Environment Protection and Biodiversity Conservation Act 1999. In addition to the blue whale, one species of shark is listed as critically endangered, and 5 bird and 2 whale species are listed as endangered.\n\nSignificant reserves of natural gas are present beneath the Bonney Coast, and are undergoing exploration. Fears have been expressed that expanded gas drilling may threaten whales through noise pollution and ship collisions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19921095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19921095", "title": "Hearth, Patio &amp; Barbecue Association", "text": "Hearth, Patio &amp; Barbecue Association\n\nHearth, Patio & Barbecue Association (HPBA) is a U.S. trade organization that represents hearth appliance manufacturers, designers and retailers.\n\nHeadquartered in Arlington, Virginia, HPBA hosts industry conferences, lobbies for legislation at federal and state levels, and provides data on sales and manufacturing output for the hearth industry. HPBA has also worked with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency to encourage the manufacturing and installation of hearth appliances that produce lower levels of air pollution.\n\n"}
{"id": "53264745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53264745", "title": "Hope Spots", "text": "Hope Spots\n\nHope Spots are ecologically unique areas of the ocean designated for protection under a global conservation campaign overseen by Mission Blue, a non-profit organization founded by Sylvia Earle with her 2009 TED prize wish.\n\nHope Spots can be Marine Protected Areas (MPA) that need attention or new sites. They are chosen for their contributions to biodiversity, the carbon sink, and important habitat. Hope Spot status is intended to alleviate the pressures human resource extraction places on the ocean by making the site higher priority to become an MPA, where resource extraction, like fishing and drilling, may be forbidden under law.\n\nThere are 76 Hope Spots worldwide (as of September 9, 2016). An additional 22 nominations for Hope Spots are currently under consideration and three nominations have been deferred.\n\nAt the time of Earle's wish, less than 1% of the ocean was protected. Earle advocated for the creation of a system of parks like the national park system in the United States. The goal of the Hope Spot campaign is raise public support, gain the attention of leaders and policy makers, and ultimately create enough Hope Spots to protect 20% of the ocean by 2020.\n\nSince September 9, 2016, nominations for Hope Spots have been open to the public. Following the completion of the Hope Spot nomination form found on Mission Blue's website, a proposed Hope Spot is evaluated to assess its validity. The Hope Spots Council, composed of marine scientists and policy experts, examine new nominations twice a year and choose which sites to designate as Hope Spots.\n\nMission Blue has partnered with the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) and receives support from National Geographic, Rolex, and Google. To increase access and promote the campaign, Google has added Hope Spots to its platform enabling users to explore the sites. A Google-powered map of Hope Spots can be found on Mission Blue's website.\n\n\nAtlantic Ocean\nArctic Ocean\nIndian Ocean\nMediterranean Sea\nPacific Ocean\nSouthern Ocean\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52917186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52917186", "title": "Labor and the environment", "text": "Labor and the environment\n\nLabour and the environment are two different concepts that can be linked as one. Labour is defined as a task that is performed, typically for an economic return. Environment is defined as air, water, minerals, organisms, and all factors that contribute to ecology. It is the gregarious and cultural pressures that builds the lives of individuals or an entire population. Human labour in the forms of Logging, Mining, and Tourism, have negatively impacted the functions of the environment in various countries that are part of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) forum. The OECD is a list of 34 countries whose governments work together to ensure that the market economies function accordingly and strive to increase economic growth, wealth and sustainable development. The impacts of labour on the environment have been so large that many corporations and campaigns have begun, striving to change the way humans exert their abilities on the environment by implementing policies to limit negative outcomes.\n\nLogging, Mining and Tourism have been found to deter the environment if certain tasks are not performed properly. Logging has created such a negative effect on New Zealand in particular, that a 3 year ban had been placed on logging to attempt to preserve the environment and reconstruct it to its original structure. The effects are dated as far back as 1960. At the end of the second world war, there were about 100,000 hectares of native forest, whereas today there is less than 17,000 hectares remaining in West Taupo District in New Zealand and many endangered species that resided in these forests are now extinct as a cause of logging. In terms of mining, the conflicts that have surfaced in Peru revolve around the inexperience workers that are hired to perform these tasks that incur a greater damage to the environment as they are not aware of the harm they are doing. There is a weakness around the environmental regulation in comparison to mining and many companies have taken over and negatively affected the environment in order to invest their wealth into new mining operations. Furthermore, tourism has contributed a great amount of stress to the environment. When individuals from other countries are visiting these OECD countries that are under great distress with the environment and pollution, in many cases they provide more harm than good by littering or removing plants or flowers as a souvenir but are unaware that the souvenirs are part of an endangered species. The popularity of tourism has resulted in damage towards the environment in many ways. Tourism has led to the growth of airports, hotels, and other organizations that have stripped away land in order to build and grow in the economic sector. Although tourism can have a positive impact on the economy it results in an environmentally unsustainable model for many areas.\n\nThe relationship between human labour and the environment and the types of work that humans have participated in have created a negative impact on many aspects of the environment including climate change and has resulted in the emerging green economy. The primary cause of climate change is humans and their work towards the environment overtime. A result of this has been the policies that have been put into place to ensure the environment will be protected moving forwards and to establish alternate routes for individuals when available to preserve the environment. The key focus is on the impact of human work on the environment, and the impact of the environment on human work. The green economy has emerged as a result of the negative outcomes. Specifically to Limpopo, Africa, there have been so many negative contributions affecting the way the environment functions that they have created a project to help reduce this issue. This project contributes to the green economy and has created policies that will be implemented to reduce negative outcomes and alternative routes when attaining energy, goods, infrastructure, etc.\n\nLogging has turned into a negative concept throughout many areas due to the way humans go about it. We have now relied on logging as a major contributor to our resources that it has been difficult to cut down and has turned into a negative factor. Specifically to New Zealand, there has been a 3 year ban put into place to try to conserve the environment and attempt to reconstruct the environment back to its original standards. This is because the West Taupo forest that is located in Pureora, is the last forest remaining causing a great deal of stress to preserve the land.\n\nThe most serious issues surrounding these native forests have resulted in a socio-economic consideration as well as conservation problems. While viewing this issue in another light, conservationists are claiming that logging has already made too big of an impact to turn back. In spite of the many protests and bans that have been placed, logging throughout these forests is still taking place today.\n\nThe effects of logging have also been negative on the rate of erosion throughout many places, specifically in the Philippines. Scientists have found that the rate of erosion in the Philippines has increased by four times due to conventional logging. Roads were one of the main outcomes of logging and although they only typically cover a small amount of the area being logged, they cover over 80% of the surface erosion.\n\nOver the course of many years, Peru specifically has been the main resources of copper, tin, silver, gold, zinc and natural gas. There has been many conflicts around labour in terms of the experience workers have prior to starting their job. Due to the high demand of workers in the mining industry, there has been a great deal of employees being hired with little to no work experience to perform these specific tasks. They are also less likely to change professions as they are being paid a large salary greater than professions that require a high deal of experience like health workers, and police officers, etc. These workers do not have any knowledge on the negative impacts that mining seems to have on the environment causing them to do more harm than good.\n\nThere has also been a weakness around environmental regulation when it comes to mining in Peru. This is seen especially through the Ministry of Energy and Mines as they are responsible for the overall production and regulations with Mining. Their responsibilities are more often neglected as their main concern is wealth as opposed to the environment.\n\nMining requires a great deal of site preparation and clearing at times. This can be a negative effect on the environment if they are performing this task through an ecologically sensitive area. Even prior to mining, many activities that are linked to the process of preparing the land for mining have a significantly negative effect on these sensitive areas.\n\nA result of human labour has effected the environment in terms of habitat loss throughout wildlife. Many species have been effected from mining companies stripping the land to benefit economically. This can also be effected when the homes of these species are being polluted with the wastes that derive from mining projects. Also, in terms of lakes and ponds, the fish and wildlife found inside these streams can be impacted if they are drained or polluted.\n\nThe mining company has done more harm than good throughout many aspects of the environment, doing everything they can to gain an economic prosperity regardless of the environmental effects.\n\nTourism has the ability to transform many areas into an economically beneficial project. It has become a major industry throughout all over the world regardless of the many stressors that can be contributed to the environment. Tourism can negatively effect the lives of indigenous people who may be depending on these resources to survive. When using nature as a resource for an economic benefit it negatively impact the lives of these indigenous individuals.\n\nOne of the major issues with tourism is the littering that tourists tend to contribute to. When tourists are littering they are not only effecting the environment but they are also effecting the animals among that ecosystem. The consumption of litter amongst these animals can result in illness and death. Not only can this factor into the land but also the organisms in the sea by breaking coral and also frightening animals or bringing illness and death among them.\n\nTourism has also impacted the environment when having to expand resources for the industry to grow. Tourism can link to the effects of logging, as there have been areas torn down in order to expand economically. Spain has gained an increasing number of tourists over the years resulting in them having to expand in airports and hotels. This resource has resulted in stripping the environment to create these commodities. While using the environment to grow in the tourism industry, this demonstrates the unsustainable model being implemented in order to grow. Many resources, land and water, have been negatively effected in the process of expanding.\n\nHuman labour on the environment have effected many factors, one being the ongoing issue of climate change. The main attempt is to establish different routes to maintain the overall state of the environment. This is done by creating policies to try to use alternative options for energy, goods, infrastructure, etc. Certain human labour activities highly affect climate change in terms of air pollution. Jobs that require transportation, electricity generation, and industrial processes release pollution throughout the air everyday. This can be through the high demand in imports and exports that require individuals to produce this pollution through their means of transporting these products.\n\nThe Global Union Research Network has worked extensively in trying to find alternative routes for services to have a smaller impact on climate change. Tourism has been affected from climate change due to the rise of sea levels causing some businesses close to the sea to shut down as a safety hazard. These policies are influenced by the strategies used when dealing with climate change and many of the financial crises.\n\nLogging contributes to up to 15 percent of the carbon dioxide in the air. It is such a negative aspect towards the environment because when individuals are cutting down trees, they are releasing carbon out into the arm which then contributes to the greenhouse gases and global warming occurs. There has been more action taken place upon vehicles impacting the air then there is towards logging and vehicles produce about 14 percent of the carbon dioxide in the air, hinting that logging should be just as an important issue to the world. Between the years of 2000 and 2009, there were 32 million acres of tropical rainforest that had been cut down per year, and each year this rate has been increasing. Environmental Defence Fund states that unless something is done as an alternative route to logging, deforestation will release up to 200 billion tons of carbon dioxide into the air in the years coming.\n\nMining has contributed to many of the air pollutions being released into the air. When mining for these resources, inexperienced employees are creating many detrimental outcomes when mining in the wrong areas or hitting gas leaks. In specifics to coal mines, communities have no choice but to leave their land behind and move due to the expansion of these mines, and the water contamination from mining. These companies are very quick to attain any sort of product through mining that they do not realize the great damage left behind once they have extracted what they need. Acid mine drainage for instance, is just one of the issues that can continue on for decades, as a result of a minimal mining job. Many campaigns are doing their best to ensure that communities find alternative routes to renewable energy to preserve the environment and decrease climate change.\n\nTourism has been greatly expanding over the years, and has also contributed a main factor of their expansion to climate change. By creating many of these new airports, attractions, etc, for tourists, it requires companies to tear down areas and rebuild a new company for the tourism industry to grow. Pollutants are being released in the air as these companies build new areas. There is a lack of knowledge around tourism and climate change which has been a leading factor in the detrimental outcomes of tourism towards the environment. Individuals continue to create new attractions for tourists to come see without realizing the consequences of their attraction towards the environment. Many individuals act out by only thinking of the short and medium term benefits of their attraction and pay no mind to the long term effects to the environment such as air pollution and overall land protection.\n\nThe emerging green economy is a way of trying to reduce resource consumption, destructive emissions, and overall reducing all types of negative impacts towards the environment. The green economy offers green products and services that benefit the environment.\n\nWhen the green economy first began to grow, there were 2 different approaches being taken, environmentally and economically. The environmental approach to this was to take all the negative environmental aspects into account and develop a sustainable route to each one through pricing, and land choices, etc. The economic perspective also known as short term growth perspective; was all about increasing jobs and incomes by investing in low carbon technologies to preserve the environment. More recently there has been a third approach to the green economy, equity and inclusion. This has been brought by developing countries, wanting the green growth approach to focus primarily on individuals and countries who are not part of the economic system.\n\nThe green economy has been implemented in an attempt to preserve the environment. Policies in Limpopo, Africa, revolve around the needs of the economy and society to ensure it is maintaining its sustainable lifestyle. The Green Economy in Limpopo's main focus is to bring more jobs and increase the economy. The green economy attempts to create this lifestyle in many different countries and areas.\n\n"}
{"id": "12664907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12664907", "title": "List of Arecaceae genera by alphabetical order", "text": "List of Arecaceae genera by alphabetical order\n\nList of Arecaceae or Palmae genera arranged alphabetically.\n\nSource: Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2476693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2476693", "title": "List of Croton sections", "text": "List of Croton sections\n\nThe sections and subsections of the genus Croton:\n\n"}
{"id": "12432908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12432908", "title": "List of Inga species", "text": "List of Inga species\n\nA list of selected species of the huge legume genus Inga.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46938088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46938088", "title": "List of mountain peaks of Arizona", "text": "List of mountain peaks of Arizona\n\nThis article comprises three sortable tables of major mountain peaks of the U.S. State of Arizona.\n\nThe summit of a mountain or hill may be measured in three principal ways:\nOf the highest major summits of Arizona, Humphreys Peak exceeds of elevation, five peaks exceed , and 14 peaks exceed of elevation.\n\nOf the most prominent summits of Arizona, five peaks are ultra-prominent summits with more than of topographic prominence and 18 peaks exceed of topographic prominence.\n\nOf the most isolated major summits of Arizona, Humphreys Peak and Baldy Peak exceed of topographic isolation and seven peaks exceed of topographic isolation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5250460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5250460", "title": "List of mountains in Montenegro", "text": "List of mountains in Montenegro\n\nThis is a list of mountains in Montenegro.\n\n\nList of some of the numerous mountains of Montenegro with some of its even more numerous peaks:\n\n"}
{"id": "36908693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36908693", "title": "List of nature centers in New York", "text": "List of nature centers in New York\n\nThis is a list of nature centers and environmental education centers in the state of New York.\n\nTo use the sortable tables: click on the icons at the top of each column to sort that column in alphabetical order; click again for reverse alphabetical order.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20596212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20596212", "title": "List of rivers of Guadeloupe", "text": "List of rivers of Guadeloupe\n\nThis is a list of rivers of Guadeloupe. Rivers are listed in clockwise order, starting at the Rivière Salèe which divides Basse-Terre from Grand-Terre.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8591778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8591778", "title": "List of stars in Orion", "text": "List of stars in Orion\n\nThis is the list of notable stars in the constellation Orion, sorted by decreasing brightness.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16593587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16593587", "title": "List of trees and shrubs by taxonomic family", "text": "List of trees and shrubs by taxonomic family\n\nThe following is a list of widely known trees and shrubs. Taxonomic families for the following trees and shrubs are listed in alphabetical order, likewise the genera and closely related species. The list currently includes 1351 species.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35255299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35255299", "title": "Mercator 1569 world map", "text": "Mercator 1569 world map\n\nThe Mercator world map of 1569 is titled \"Nova et Aucta Orbis Terrae Descriptio ad Usum Navigantium Emendate Accommodata\" (Renaissance Latin for \"New and more complete representation of the terrestrial globe properly adapted for use in navigation\"). The title shows that Gerardus Mercator aimed to present contemporary knowledge of the geography of the world and at the same time 'correct' the chart to be more useful to sailors. This 'correction', whereby constant bearing sailing courses on the sphere (rhumb lines) are mapped to straight lines on the plane map, characterizes the Mercator projection. While the map's geography has been superseded by modern knowledge, its projection proved to be one of the most significant advances in the history of cartography, inspiring map historian Nordenskiöld to write \"The master of Rupelmonde stands unsurpassed in the history of cartography since the time of Ptolemy.\" The projection heralded a new era in the evolution of navigation maps and charts and it is still their basis.\n\nThe map is inscribed with a great deal of text. The framed map legends (or cartouches) cover a wide variety of topics: a dedication to his patron and a copyright statement; discussions of rhumb lines, great circles and distances; comments on some of the major rivers; accounts of fictitious geography of the north pole and the southern continent. The full Latin texts and English translations of all the legends are given below. Other minor texts are sprinkled about the map. They cover such topics as the magnetic poles, the prime meridian, navigational features, minor geographical details, the voyages of discovery and myths of giants and cannibals. These minor texts are also given below.\n\nA comparison with world maps before 1569 shows how closely Mercator drew on the work of other cartographers and his own previous works, but he declares (Legend 3) that he was also greatly indebted to many new charts prepared by Portuguese and Spanish sailors in the portolan tradition. Earlier cartographers of world maps had largely ignored the more accurate practical charts of sailors, and vice versa, but the age of discovery, from the closing decade of the fifteenth century, stimulated the integration of these two mapping traditions: Mercator's world map is one of the earliest fruits of this merger.\nMercator's 1569 map was a large planisphere, i.e. a projection of the spherical Earth onto the plane. It was printed in eighteen separate sheets from copper plates engraved by Mercator himself. Each sheet measures 33×40 cm and, with a border of 2 cm, the complete map measures 202×124 cm. All sheets span a longitude of 60 degrees; the first row of 6 sheets cover latitudes 80°N to 56°N, the second row cover 56°N to 16°S and the third row cover 16°S to 66°S: this latitude division is not symmetric with respect to the equator thus giving rise to the later criticism of a Euro-centric projection.\n\nIt is not known how many copies of the map were printed, but it was certainly several hundred. Despite this large print run, by the middle of the nineteenth century there was only one known copy, that at the Bibliothèque Nationale de France. \nA second copy was discovered in 1889 at the Stadt Bibliothek of Breslau along with maps of Europe and Britain. \nThese three maps were destroyed by fire in 1945 but fortunately copies had been made before then. \nA third copy was found in a map collection \"Mappae Geographiae vetustae\" from the archives of the Amerbach family which had been given to the library of the University of Basel. \nThe only other complete copy was discovered at an auction sale in Luzern in 1932 and is now in the map collection of the \nMaritiem Museum Rotterdam. \nIn addition to the complete copies there is a single page showing the North Atlantic in the Mercator atlas of Europe in the British Library. \nMany paper reproductions of all four maps have been made. Those at full scale, providing access to the detail and the artistry of Mercator's engraving, are listed next. Images of the Basil, Paris, and Rotterdam impressions can be found online.\n\nThe Basel map is the cleanest of the three extant versions. It is called the 'three strip' version because it is in three separate rows rather than a single assembled sheet. It was photographically reproduced at a reduced scale by Wilhelm Kruecken in 1992; more recently (2011) he has produced a full-scale and full sized (202×124 cm) reproduction of the map along with a five volume account (in German) covering all aspects of Mercator's work.\nMedium resolution scans of the separate sheets and a composite of all 18 scans are accessible as follows.\nThe Paris copy is a single combined sheet that came into the possession of the Bibliothèque Nationale from the estate of Julius Klaproth (1783–1835). The map is uncoloured, partially borderless and in poor condition due to repeated exhibitions during the nineteenth century. It was reproduced by Edmé-François Jomard (1777–1862) between 1842 and 1862 as part of a collection of 21 facsimile maps. Very few copies of this facsimile are known.\n\nThe Bibliothèque Nationale has put a digital image of their copy into the public domain in the form of 13 separate images. The images do not correspond exactly with the 18 original sheets: they are in three rows of different heights with 5, 4, 4 images respectively. The zoomable images permit examination of small sections of the map in very great detail. These are the only online images at a high enough resolution to read the smallest text.\n\nImmediately after its discovery in 1889 the Breslau map was described by Heyer who initiated copies (in multiple sheets) for the Berlin Geographical Society in 1891. Forty years later, in 1931, a further 150 copies were issued by the Hydrographic Bureau\nThis copy in the Maritiem Museum Rotterdam is in the form of an atlas constructed by Mercator for his friend and patron Werner von Gymnich. It was made by Mercator in (or shortly after) 1569 by dissecting and reassembling three copies of his original wall map to create coherent units such as continents or oceans or groups of legends. There are 17 non-blank coloured pages which may be viewed online (and zoomed to a medium resolution, much lower than that of the French copy at the Bibliothèque Nationale).\n\nIn 1962 a monochrome facsimile of this atlas was produced jointly by the curators of the Rotterdam museum and the cartographic journal Imago Mundi. The plates are accompanied with comprehensive bibliographic material, a commentary by van 't Hoff and English translations of the Latin text from the Hydrographics Review. More recently, in 2012, the Maritiem Museum produced a facsimile edition of the atlas, with an introduction by Sjoerd de Meer.\n\nIn Legend 3 Mercator states that his first priority is \"to spread on a plane the surface of the sphere in such a way that the positions of places shall correspond on all sides with each other, both in so far as true direction and distance are concerned and as correct longitudes and latitudes.\" He goes on to point out the deficiencies of previous projections,\nparticularly the distortion caused by the oblique incidence of parallels and meridians which gives rise to incorrect angles and shapes: therefore he adopts parallel meridians and orthogonal parallels. This is also a feature of sixteenth century plane charts (equirectangular projections) but they also have equally spaced parallels; in Legend 3 Mercator also emphasizes the distortion that this gives rise to. In particular, the straight lines emanating from the compass roses are not rhumb lines so that they do not give a true bearing. Nor was it straightforward to calculate the sailing distances on these charts. Mariners were aware of these problems and had evolved rules of thumb to enhance the accuracy of their navigation.\n\nMercator presents his remedy for these problems: \"We have progressively increased the degrees of latitude towards each pole in proportion to the lengthenings of the parallels with reference to the equator.\" \nThe resulting variation of the latitude scale is shown on the meridian at 350°E of his map. Later, Edward Wright and others showed how this statement of Mercator could be turned into a precise mathematical problem whose solution permitted the calculation of the latitude scale, but their methods had not been developed at the time of Mercator.\nAll these methods hinge on the observation that the circumference of a parallel of latitude is proportional to the cosine of the latitude, which is unity at the equator and zero at the poles. The length of a parallel, and hence the spacing of the parallels, must therefore be increased by a factor equal to the reciprocal of the cosine (i.e. the secant) of the latitude.\n\nMercator left no explanation of his own methods but, as long ago as 1541, he had demonstrated that he understood how to draw rhumb lines on a globe.\nIt has been suggested that he drew the rhumbs by using a set of metal templates for the seven principal compass points within each quadrant, as follows. Starting at the equator draw a short straight line segment, at say 67.5° (east by northeast). Continue as far as a meridian separated by only two or three degrees of longitude and mark the crossing point. Move the template to that point and repeat the process. Since the meridians have converged a little the line will bend up a little generating a rhumb which describes a spiral on the sphere. The latitude and longitude of selected points on the rhumb could have then been transferred to the chart and the latitude scale of the chart adjusted so that the rhumb becomes a straight line. There has been no shortage of proposed methods for the construction. For example, Hollander analyzed fourteen such hypotheses and concluded that Mercator \"may\" have used a judicious mix of mechanical transference and numerical interpolations. However he proceeded, Mercator achieved a fairly accurate, but not perfect, latitude scale.\n\nSince the parallels shrink to zero length as they approach the pole they have to be stretched by larger and larger amounts. Correspondingly the parallel spacing must increase by the same ratio. Mercator concludes that \"The chart cannot be extended as far as the pole, for the degrees of latitude would finally attain infinity.\" —Legend 6. (That is, the reciprocal of the cosine of the latitude become infinite). He therefore uses a completely different projection for the inset map of the north polar regions: an azimuthal equidistant projection.\n\nIt took many years for Mercator's projection to gain wider acceptance. The following gallery shows the first maps in which it was employed. General acceptance only came with the publication of the French sea atlas \"Le Neptune Francois\" at the end of the seventeenth century: all the maps in this widely disseminated volume were on the Mercator projection.\nIn Legend 12 Mercator makes careful distinction between great circles (\"plaga\") and rhumb lines (\"directio\") and he points out that the rhumb between two given points is always longer than the great circle distance, the latter being the shortest distance between the points. However, he stresses that over short distances (which he quantifies) the difference may be negligible and a calculation of the rhumb distance may be adequate and more relevant since it is the sailing distance on a constant bearing. He gives the details of such a calculation in a rather cumbersome fashion in Legend 12 but in Legend 10 he says that the same method can be applied more readily with the Organum Directorium (the Diagram of Courses, ) shown annotated here. Only dividers were used in these constructions but the original maps had a thread attached at the origin of each compass rose. Its use is partially explained in Legend 10.\nTo illustrate his method take A at (20°N,33°E) and B at (65°N,75°E). Plot the latitude of A on the left hand scale and plot B with the appropriate relative latitude and longitude. Measure the azimuth α, the angle MAB: it can be read off the compass scale by constructing OP parallel to AB; for this example it is 34°. Draw a line OQ through the origin of the compass rose such that the angle between OQ and the equator is equal to the azimuth angle α. Now find the point N on the equator which is such that the number of equatorial degrees in ON is numerically equal to the latitude difference (45° for AM on the unequal scale). Draw the perpendicular through N and let it meet OQ at D. Find the point E such that OE=OD, here approximately 54°. This is a measure of the rhumb line distance between the points on the sphere corresponding to A and B on the spherical Earth. Since each degree on the equator corresponds to 60 nautical miles the sailing distance is 3240 nautical miles for this example. If B is in the second quadrant with respect to A then the upper rose is used and if B is west of A then the longitude separation is simply reversed. Mercator also gives a refined method which is useful for small azimuths.\n\nThe above method is explained in Legend 12 by using compass roses on the equator and it is only in Legend 10 that he introduces the Organum Directorium and also addresses the inverse problems: given the initial point and the direction and distance of the second find the latitude and longitude of the second.\n\nMercator's construction is simply an evaluation of the rhumb line distance in terms of the latitude difference and the azimuth as\nIf the latitude difference is expressed in arc minutes then the distance is in nautical miles.\n\nIn later life Mercator commented that the principles of his map had not been understood by mariners but he admitted to his friend and biographer, Walter Ghym, that the map lacked a sufficiently clear detailed explanation of its use. The intention expressed in the last sentence of Legend 10, that he would give more information in a future 'Geographia', was never realized.\n\nIn Legend 5 Mercator argues that the Prime Meridian should be identified with that on which the magnetic declination is zero, namely the meridian through the Cape Verde islands, or alternatively that through the island of Corvo in the Azores. (He cites the varying opinions of the Dieppe mariners). The prime meridian is labelled as 360 and the remainder are labelled every ten degrees eastwards. He further claims that he has used information on the geographical variation of declination to calculate the position of the (single) magnetic pole corresponding to the two possible prime meridians: they are shown on \n(For good measure he repeats one of these poles on \nHe does not show a position for a south magnetic pole. The model of the Earth as a magnetic dipole did not arise until the end of the seventeenth century, so between AD 1500 and that era the number of magnetic poles was a matter for speculation, variously 1, 2 or 4. Later, he accepted that magnetic declination changed in time, thus invalidating his position that the prime meridian could be chosen on these grounds.\n\nIn his introduction to the Imago Mundi facsimile edition t' Hoff gives lists of world maps and regional maps that Mercator may well have seen, or even possessed by the 1560s. \nA more complete illustrated list of world maps of that time may be compiled from the comprehensive survey of Shirley. Comparisons with his own map show how freely he borrowed from these maps and from his own 1538 world map and his 1541 globe.\nIn addition to published maps and manuscripts Mercator declares (Legend 3) that he was greatly indebted to many new charts prepared by Portuguese and Spanish sailors in the portolan traditions. \"It is from an equitable conciliation of all these documents that the dimensions and situations of the land are given here as accurately as possible.\" Earlier cartographers of world maps had largely ignored the more accurate practical charts of sailors, and vice versa, but the age of discovery, from the closing decades of the fifteenth century, brought together these two traditions in the person of Mercator.\n\nThere are great discrepancies with the modern atlas. Europe, the coast of Africa and the eastern coast of the Americas are relatively well covered but beyond that the anomalies increase with distance. For example, the spectacular bulge on the western coast of South America adapted from Ruscelli's 1561 \"Orbis Descriptio\" replaced the more accurate representation of earlier maps. That mistake disappears for good with the Blaeu map of 1606.\n\nThe Mediterranean basin shows errors similar to those found in contemporary maps. For example, the latitude of the Black Sea is several degrees too high, like in the maps made by Diogo Ribeiro in Seville in the 1520s. However, in Mercator's map the longitude of the entire basin is exaggerated by about 25%, contrary to the very accurate shape depicted by Ribeiro.\nThe phantom islands of Frisland and Brasil in the North Atlantic persist in the maps of the period even though they were in waters readily accessed by European sailors. He does show a Strait of Anian between Asia and the Americas as well as NW and NE passages to the spice islands of the East: this he justifies on his studies of the ancient texts detailed in Legend 3 for as yet these were unexplored regions.\n\nThe bizarre representation of the geography of the north polar regions in the inset\nis discussed in detail in Legend 6 and in the minor texts of . Mercator accepts that a fourteenth-century English friar had employed magic arts to survey the septentrional regions. The four channels carry the sea \"towards\" the pole where it disappears into an abyss with great force.\n\nMercator accepted current beliefs in the existence of a large Southern continent (Terra Australis) — beliefs which would prevail until the discovery of the open seas south of Cape Horn and the circumnavigation of Australia. His biographer, Walter Ghim, explained that even though Mercator was not ignorant that the Austral continent still lay hidden and unknown, he believed it could be \"demonstrated and proved by solid reasons and arguments to yield in its geometric proportions, size and weight, and importance to neither of the other two, nor possibly to be lesser or smaller, otherwise the constitution of the world could not hold together at its centre\".\n\nBeyond Europe the interiors of the continents were unknown but Mercator struggled to\ncombine the scattered data at his disposal into a harmonious whole in the map legends which speculate on the Asian Prester John and the courses of the Ganges, Nile and Niger. For his geographical information Mercator quotes (Legends 3, 4, 8, 11, 14) classic authors such as Pliny the Elder, Pomponius Mela, Ptolemy, and earlier travellers such as Marco Polo but, as the principal geographer of his time, he would have undoubtedly have been in touch with contemporary travellers.\n\nMercator was not a navigator himself and, while he was obviously aware of the concept of rhumb line, he missed several key practical aspects of navigation. As a result, his world map \"was useless for navigation at the time it was created because navigation was something very different from his idealized concept.\"\n\nMercator had to work from the geographic information contained in his source maps, which of course was not always accurate, but he may have also introduced errors of his own by misinterpreting the mathematical structure of the Portuguese and Spanish charts of his time. In addition, even if his sources had been perfect, Mercator's map would have still been of little practical use for navigators due to lack of reliable data on magnetic declination and to the difficulty of determining longitude accurately at sea.\n\nThese technical reasons explain why Mercator's projection was not widely adopted for marine charts until the 18th century.\n\nThe ornate border of the map shows the 32 points of the compass. The cardinal appoints appear in various forms: west is \"Zephyrus, Occides, West, Ponente, Oeste;\" east is \"Subsola, Oriens, Oost, Levante, Este;\" south is \"Auster, Meridio, Zuya Ostre, Sid\"; north is \"Boreas, Septentrio, Nord, tramontana.\" All of the other 28 points are written only in Dutch, confirming Mercator's wish that his map would be put to practical use by mariners.\n\nWithin the map Mercator embellishes the open seas with fleets of ships, sea creatures, of which one is a dolphin, and a striking god-like figure which may be Triton.\nThe unknown continental interiors are remarkably devoid of creatures and Mercator is for the most part content to create speculative mountain ranges, rivers and cities. The only land animal, in South America, is shown as \"…having under the belly a receptacle in which it keeps its young warm and takes them out but to suckle them.\" ( with text.) He also shows cannibals but this may have been true. The giants shown in Patagonia may also be founded in truth: the reaction of Spanish sailors of slight stature on confronting a tribe of natives who were well over six foot in height. These images of South Americans are almost direct copies of similar figures on the #World and regional maps before 1569 map of Diego Gutierrez.\nThe are three other images of figures: \nPrester John in Ethiopia ; \na tiny vignette of two 'flute' players (see text);\nthe Zolotaia baba at . (Zolotaia baba may also may be found on the near the right border at mid-height).\n\nThe italic script used on the map was largely developed by Mercator himself. He was a great advocate of its use, insisting that it was much clearer than any other. He published an influential book, \"Literarum latinorum\", showing how the italic hand should be executed.\n\n\nThe following literal translations are taken, with permission of the International Hydrographics Board, from the Hydrographics Review. The Latin text differs from that of Mercator in using modern spelling. Punctuation has been modified or added. Paragraph breaks have been added where required.\n\n\nThis bibliography gives lists of world and regional maps, on various projections, that Mercator may have used in the preparation of his world map. In addition there are examples of maps of the succeeding decades which did or did not use the Mercator projection. Where possible references are given to printed or online reproductions.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45521521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45521521", "title": "Mesopredator", "text": "Mesopredator\n\nA mesopredator is a mid ranking predator in the middle of a trophic level, which typically preys on smaller animals. Mesopredators often vary in ecosystems depending on the food web. It is also important to note that there is no specific size or weight restrictions to be qualified as a mesopredator as it depends on how large the apex predator is, and what the mesopredator's prey is. When new species are introduced into an ecosystem, the role of mesopredator often changes; the same happens if a species is removed.\n\nWhen populations of apex predators decrease, populations of mesopredators often increase. This is the mesopredator release effect. \"Mesopredator outbreaks often lead to declining prey populations, sometimes destabilizing communities and driving local extinctions\". When apex predators are removed from the ecosystem, this gives the mesopredator have less competition and conflict. They are able to catch more prey and have fewer causes of death. Often times mesopredators can take over the role as apex predators. This happens when new species are introduced into an ecosystem or when species leave or are killed off of an ecosystem. When this happens, and the new apex predator or former mesopredator, becomes the new species on top of the food chain, it is important to remember that they are not ecologically identical to the former apex predator, and is likely a smaller species having different effects on the structure and stability of the ecosystem. The mesopredators that become the new apex predators are the species that benefit from this mesopredator release. Apex predators reduce mesopredator populations, and change mesopredator behaviors and habitat choices, by preying on and intimidating mesopredators. This can occur in any ecosystem with any type of relationship between predator and prey. However, in the case of the relationship between apex predator and mesopredator, it could mean that the apex predator causes the mesopredator to leave the ecosystem, again, creating room for a new species to become mesopredator. \n\nMesopredator outbreaks are increasing over the last little while in fragmented habitats. This is caused by a few reasons. A main cause is by the disappearance of apex species within the habitat. Apex species are usually larger animals who require a bigger area and will often leave if the habitat is lost. When the apex predator leaves the ecosystem, the former mesopredator will become the new apex predator, and a new species becomes the mesopredator. Another cause created also created by the apex predators being larger animals is that they will often have more encounters with humans, leaving them more susceptible to harmful conflicts. These harmful conflicts can either cause the apex predator to leave the ecosystem in fear of danger, or if the situation is extreme enough, the humans will have killed off the apex predator from their habitat. Again, this is another example showing how the role of mesopredator and apex predator is constantly changing. Another reason why mesopredator outbreaks are becoming more popular is because of certain resources being added in fragmented areas. Resources such as pet food, trash, crop, and crop pests. These resources often appear when development is occurring on land near the ecosystem. This scenario is the most ideal for mesopredator outbreaks to occur.\n\n"}
{"id": "47460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47460", "title": "Mesosphere", "text": "Mesosphere\n\nThe mesosphere (; from Greek \"mesos\" \"middle\" ) is the layer of the Earth's atmosphere that is directly above the stratosphere and directly below the thermosphere. In the mesosphere, temperature decreases as the altitude increases. This characteristic is used to define its limits: it begins at the top of the stratosphere (sometimes called the stratopause), and ends at the mesopause, which is the coldest part of Earth's atmosphere with temperatures below . The exact upper and lower boundaries of the mesosphere vary with latitude and with season (higher in winter and at the tropics, lower in summer and at the poles), but the lower boundary is usually located at heights from above the Earth's surface and the upper boundary (mesopause) is usually around .\n\nThe stratosphere, mesosphere and lowest part of the thermosphere are collectively referred to as the \"middle atmosphere\", which spans heights from approximately to . The mesopause, at an altitude of , separates the mesosphere from the thermosphere—the second-outermost layer of the Earth's atmosphere. This is also around the same altitude as the turbopause, below which different chemical species are well mixed due to turbulent eddies. Above this level the atmosphere becomes non-uniform; the scale heights of different chemical species differ by their molecular masses.\n\nThe term near space is also sometimes used. This term does not have a technical definition, but typically refers the region of the atmosphere up to 100 km (65,000 and 328,000 feet), roughly between the Armstrong limit (above which humans need a pressure suit to survive) up to the Kármán line where astrodynamics must take over from aerodynamics in order to achieve flight. The definition of near space can vary depending on the source, but in general near space comprises the altitudes above where commercial airliners fly but below orbiting satellites. Some sources distinguish between the terms \"near space\" and \"upper atmosphere,\" so that only the layers closest to the Karman line are called near space.\n\nWithin the mesosphere, temperature decreases with increasing height, due to decreasing absorption of solar radiation by the rarefied atmosphere and increasing cooling by CO radiative emission. The top of the mesosphere, called the mesopause, is the coldest part of Earth's atmosphere. Temperatures in the upper mesosphere fall as low as , varying according to latitude and season.\n\nThe main dynamic features in this region are strong zonal (East-West) winds, atmospheric tides, internal atmospheric gravity waves (commonly called \"gravity waves\"), and planetary waves. Most of these tides and waves start in the troposphere and lower stratosphere, and propagate to the mesosphere. In the mesosphere, gravity-wave amplitudes can become so large that the waves become unstable and dissipate. This dissipation deposits momentum into the mesosphere and largely drives global circulation.\n\nNoctilucent clouds are located in the mesosphere. The upper mesosphere is also the region of the ionosphere known as the \"D layer\". The D layer is only present during the day when some ionization occurs with nitric oxide being ionized by Lyman series-alpha hydrogen radiation. The ionization is so weak that when night falls, and the source of ionization is removed, the free electron and ion form back into a neutral molecule. The mesosphere has been called the \"ignorosphere\" because it is poorly studied relative to the stratosphere (which can be accessed with high-altitude balloons) and the thermosphere (in which satellites can orbit).\n\nA deep sodium layer is located between . Made of unbound, non-ionized atoms of sodium, the sodium layer radiates weakly to contribute to the airglow. The sodium has an average concentration of 400,000 atoms per cubic centimetre. This band is regularly replenished by sodium sublimating from incoming meteors. Astronomers have begun utilizing this sodium band to create \"guide stars\" as part of the adaptive optical correction process used to produce ultra-sharp ground-based observations. Other metal layers, e.g. iron and potassium, exist in the upper mesosphere/lower thermosphere region as well.\n\nMillions of meteors enter the Earth's atmosphere, averaging 40 tons per year. The ablated material, called meteoric smoke, is thought to serve as condensation nuclei for noctilucent clouds.\n\nThe mesosphere lies above altitude records for aircraft, while only the lowest few kilometers are accessible to balloons, for which the altitude record is 53.0 km. Meanwhile, the mesosphere is below the minimum altitude for orbital spacecraft due to high atmospheric drag. It has only been accessed through the use of sounding rockets, which are only capable of taking mesospheric measurements for a few minutes per mission. As a result, it is the least-understood part of the atmosphere, resulting in the humorous moniker \"ignorosphere\". The presence of red sprites and blue jets (electrical discharges or lightning within the lower mesosphere), noctilucent clouds, and density shears within this poorly understood layer are of current scientific interest.\n\nNear space was first explored in the 1930s. The early flights flew to the edge of space without computers, spacesuits, and with only crude life support systems. Notable people who flew in near space were Jean Piccard and his wife Jeannette, on the nearcraft The Century of Progress. Later exploration was mainly carried out by unmanned craft, although there have been skydiving attempts made from high-altitude balloons.\n\nThe area is of interest for military surveillance purposes, scientific study, as well as to commercial interests for communications, and tourism. Craft that fly in near space include high-altitude balloons, non-rigid airships, rockoons, sounding rockets, and the Lockheed U-2 aircraft. The region has been of interest to space travel. Early attempts used a craft known as a rockoon to reach extreme altitudes and orbit. These are still used today for sounding rockets.\n\nHigh-altitude platform stations have been proposed for applications such as communications relays. There has been a resurgence of interest in near space to launch manned spacecraft by man. Groups like ARCASPACE, as well as the da Vinci Project are planning on launching manned suborbital space vehicles from high-altitude balloons. JP Aerospace has a proposal for a spaceport in near space, as part of their Airship to Orbit program.\n\nNear space has long been used for scientific ballooning, for applications such as submillimetre astronomy. High-altitude balloons are often flown by students and by amateur groups to altitudes on the order of , for both scientific and educational purposes.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39647486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39647486", "title": "Ministry of Energy and Minerals", "text": "Ministry of Energy and Minerals\n\nThe Ministry of Energy is the government ministry of Tanzania that is responsible for facilitating the development of the energy sectors as separated with the Ministry of Mineral .\n"}
{"id": "36649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36649", "title": "Mount St. Helens", "text": "Mount St. Helens\n\nMount St. Helens or Louwala-Clough (known as Lawetlat'la to the indigenous Cowlitz people, and Loowit to the Klickitat) is an active stratovolcano located in Skamania County, Washington, in the Pacific Northwest region of the United States. It is northeast of Portland, Oregon and south of Seattle, Washington. Mount St. Helens takes its English name from the British diplomat Lord St Helens, a friend of explorer George Vancouver who made a survey of the area in the late 18th century. The volcano is located in the Cascade Range and is part of the Cascade Volcanic Arc, a segment of the Pacific Ring of Fire that includes over 160 active volcanoes. This volcano is well known for its ash explosions and pyroclastic flows.\n\nMount St. Helens is most notorious for its major 1980 eruption, the deadliest and most economically destructive volcanic event in the history of the United States. Fifty-seven people were killed; 250 homes, 47 bridges, of railways, and of highway were destroyed. A massive debris avalanche triggered by an earthquake measuring 5.1 on the Richter scale caused an eruption that reduced the elevation of the mountain's summit from to , leaving a wide horseshoe-shaped crater. The debris avalanche was up to in volume. The Mount St. Helens National Volcanic Monument was created to preserve the volcano and allow for the eruption's aftermath to be scientifically studied.\n\nAs with most other volcanoes in the Cascade Range, Mount St. Helens is a large eruptive cone consisting of lava rock interlayered with ash, pumice, and other deposits. The mountain includes layers of basalt and andesite through which several domes of dacite lava have erupted. The largest of the dacite domes formed the previous summit, and off its northern flank sat the smaller Goat Rocks dome. Both were destroyed in the 1980 eruption.\n\nMount St. Helens is west of Mount Adams, in the western part of the Cascade Range. These \"sister and brother\" volcanic mountains are approximately from Mount Rainier, the highest of Cascade volcanoes. Mount Hood, the nearest major volcanic peak in Oregon, is southeast of Mount St. Helens.\n\nMount St. Helens is geologically young compared with the other major Cascade volcanoes. It formed only within the past 40,000 years, and the pre-1980 summit cone began rising about 2,200 years ago. The volcano is considered the most active in the Cascades within the Holocene epoch (the last 10,000 or so years).\n\nPrior to the 1980 eruption, Mount St. Helens was the fifth-highest peak in Washington. It stood out prominently from surrounding hills because of the symmetry and extensive snow and ice cover of the pre-1980 summit cone, earning it the nickname \"Fuji-san of America\". The peak rose more than above its base, where the lower flanks merge with adjacent ridges. The mountain is across at its base, which is at an elevation of on the northeastern side and elsewhere. At the pre-eruption tree line, the width of the cone was .\nStreams that originate on the volcano enter three main river systems: the Toutle River on the north and northwest, the Kalama River on the west, and the Lewis River on the south and east. The streams are fed by abundant rain and snow. The average annual rainfall is , and the snow pack on the mountain's upper slopes can reach . The Lewis River is impounded by three dams for hydroelectric power generation. The southern and eastern sides of the volcano drain into an upstream impoundment, the Swift Reservoir, which is directly south of the volcano's peak.\n\nAlthough Mount St. Helens is in Skamania County, Washington, access routes to the mountain run through Cowlitz County to the west and Lewis County to the north. State Route 504, locally known as the Spirit Lake Memorial Highway, connects with Interstate 5 at Exit 49, to the west of the mountain. That north–south highway skirts the low-lying cities of Castle Rock, Longview and Kelso along the Cowlitz River, and passes through the Vancouver, Washington–Portland, Oregon metropolitan area less than to the southwest. The community nearest the volcano is Cougar, Washington, in the Lewis River valley south-southwest of the peak. Gifford Pinchot National Forest surrounds Mount St. Helens.\n\nDuring the winter of 1980–1981, a new glacier appeared. Now officially named Crater Glacier, it was formerly known as the Tulutson Glacier. Shadowed by the crater walls and fed by heavy snowfall and repeated snow avalanches, it grew rapidly ( per year in thickness). By 2004, it covered about , and was divided by the dome into a western and eastern lobe. Typically, by late summer, the glacier looks dark from rockfall from the crater walls and ash from eruptions. As of 2006, the ice had an average thickness of and a maximum of , nearly as deep as the much older and larger Carbon Glacier of Mount Rainier. The ice is all post–1980, making the glacier very young geologically. However, the volume of the new glacier is about the same as all the pre–1980 glaciers combined.\n\nWith the recent volcanic activity starting in 2004, the glacier lobes were pushed aside and upward by the growth of new volcanic domes. The surface of the glacier, once mostly without crevasses, turned into a chaotic jumble of icefalls heavily criss-crossed with crevasses and seracs caused by movement of the crater floor. The new domes have almost separated the Crater Glacier into an eastern and western lobe. Despite the volcanic activity, the termini of the glacier have still advanced, with a slight advance on the western lobe and a more considerable advance on the more shaded eastern lobe. Due to the advance, two lobes of the glacier joined together in late May 2008 and thus the glacier completely surrounds the lava domes. In addition, since 2004, new glaciers have formed on the crater wall above Crater Glacier feeding rock and ice onto its surface below; there are two rock glaciers to the north of the eastern lobe of Crater Glacier. Crater Glacier is the only known advancing glacier in the contiguous United States.\n\nThe early eruptive stages of Mount St. Helens are known as the \"Ape Canyon Stage\" (around 40,000–35,000 years ago), the \"Cougar Stage\" (ca. 20,000–18,000 years ago), and the \"Swift Creek Stage\" (roughly 13,000–8,000 years ago). The modern period, since about 2500 BCE, is called the \"Spirit Lake Stage\". Collectively, the pre–Spirit Lake stages are known as the \"ancestral stages\". The ancestral and modern stages differ primarily in the composition of the erupted lavas; ancestral lavas consisted of a characteristic mixture of dacite and andesite, while modern lava is very diverse (ranging from olivine basalt to andesite and dacite).\n\nSt. Helens started its growth in the Pleistocene 37,600 years ago, during the Ape Canyon stage, with dacite and andesite eruptions of hot pumice and ash. Thirty-six thousand years ago a large mudflow cascaded down the volcano; mudflows were significant forces in all of St. Helens' eruptive cycles. The Ape Canyon eruptive period ended around 35,000 years ago and was followed by 17,000 years of relative quiet. Parts of this ancestral cone were fragmented and transported by glaciers 14,000 to 18,000 years ago during the last glacial period of the current ice age.\n\nThe second eruptive period, the Cougar Stage, started 20,000 years ago and lasted for 2,000 years. Pyroclastic flows of hot pumice and ash along with dome growth occurred during this period. Another 5,000 years of dormancy followed, only to be upset by the beginning of the Swift Creek eruptive period, typified by pyroclastic flows, dome growth and blanketing of the countryside with tephra. Swift Creek ended 8,000 years ago.\n\nA dormancy of about 4,000 years was broken around 2500 BCE with the start of the Smith Creek eruptive period, when eruptions of large amounts of ash and yellowish-brown pumice covered thousands of square miles. An eruption in 1900 BCE was the largest known eruption from St. Helens during the Holocene epoch, judged by the volume of one of the tephra layers from that period. This eruptive period lasted until about 1600 BCE and left deep deposits of material distant in what is now Mt. Rainier National Park. Trace deposits have been found as far northeast as Banff National Park in Alberta, and as far southeast as eastern Oregon. All told there may have been up to of material ejected in this cycle. Some 400 years of dormancy followed.\n\nSt. Helens came alive again around 1200 BCE — the Pine Creek eruptive period. This lasted until about 800 BCE and was characterized by smaller-volume eruptions. Numerous dense, nearly red hot pyroclastic flows sped down St. Helens' flanks and came to rest in nearby valleys. A large mudflow partly filled of the Lewis River valley sometime between 1000 BCE and 500 BCE.\n\nThe next eruptive period, the Castle Creek period, began about 400 BCE, and is characterized by a change in composition of St. Helens' lava, with the addition of olivine and basalt. The pre-1980 summit cone started to form during the Castle Creek period. Significant lava flows in addition to the previously much more common fragmented and pulverized lavas and rocks (tephra) distinguished this period. Large lava flows of andesite and basalt covered parts of the mountain, including one around the year 100 BCE that traveled all the way into the Lewis and Kalama river valleys. Others, such as Cave Basalt (known for its system of lava tubes), flowed up to from their vents. During the first century, mudflows moved down the Toutle and Kalama river valleys and may have reached the Columbia River. Another 400 years of dormancy ensued.\n\nThe Sugar Bowl eruptive period was short and markedly different from other periods in Mount St. Helens history. It produced the only unequivocal laterally directed blast known from Mount St. Helens before the 1980 eruptions. During Sugar Bowl time, the volcano first erupted quietly to produce a dome, then erupted violently at least twice producing a small volume of tephra, directed-blast deposits, pyroclastic flows, and lahars.\n\nRoughly 700 years of dormancy were broken in about 1480, when large amounts of pale gray dacite pumice and ash started to erupt, beginning the Kalama period. The eruption in 1480 was several times larger than the May 18, 1980, eruption. In 1482, another large eruption rivaling the 1980 eruption in volume is known to have occurred. Ash and pumice piled northeast of the volcano to a thickness of ; away, the ash was deep. Large pyroclastic flows and mudflows subsequently rushed down St. Helens' west flanks and into the Kalama River drainage system.\n\nThis 150-year period next saw the eruption of less silica-rich lava in the form of andesitic ash that formed at least eight alternating light- and dark-colored layers. Blocky andesite lava then flowed from St. Helens' summit crater down the volcano's southeast flank. Later, pyroclastic flows raced down over the andesite lava and into the Kalama River valley. It ended with the emplacement of a dacite dome several hundred feet (~200 m) high at the volcano's summit, which filled and overtopped an explosion crater already at the summit. Large parts of the dome's sides broke away and mantled parts of the volcano's cone with talus. Lateral explosions excavated a notch in the southeast crater wall. St. Helens reached its greatest height and achieved its highly symmetrical form by the time the Kalama eruptive cycle ended, in about 1647. The volcano remained quiet for the next 150 years.\n\nThe 57-year eruptive period that started in 1800 was named after the Goat Rocks dome, and is the first time that both oral and written records exist. Like the Kalama period, the Goat Rocks period started with an explosion of dacite tephra, followed by an andesite lava flow, and culminated with the emplacement of a dacite dome. The 1800 eruption probably rivalled the 1980 eruption in size, although it did not result in massive destruction of the cone. The ash drifted northeast over central and eastern Washington, northern Idaho, and western Montana. There were at least a dozen reported small eruptions of ash from 1831 to 1857, including a fairly large one in 1842. The vent was apparently at or near Goat Rocks on the northeast flank. Goat Rocks dome was the site of the bulge in the 1980 eruption, and it was obliterated in the major eruption event on May 18, 1980 that destroyed the entire north face and top of the mountain.\n\nOn March 20, 1980, Mount St. Helens experienced a magnitude 4.2 earthquake; and, on March 27, steam venting started. By the end of April, the north side of the mountain had started to bulge. \nOn May 18, a second earthquake, of magnitude 5.1, triggered a massive collapse of the north face of the mountain. It was the largest known debris avalanche in recorded history. The magma in St. Helens burst forth into a large-scale pyroclastic flow that flattened vegetation and buildings over . More than 1.5 million metric tons of sulfur dioxide was released into the atmosphere. On the Volcanic Explosivity Index scale, the eruption was rated a five, and categorized as a Plinian eruption.\nThe collapse of the northern flank of St. Helens mixed with ice, snow, and water to create lahars (volcanic mudflows). The lahars flowed many miles down the Toutle and Cowlitz Rivers, destroying bridges and lumber camps. A total of of material was transported south into the Columbia River by the mudflows.\n\nFor more than nine hours, a vigorous plume of ash erupted, eventually reaching 12 to 16 miles (20 to 27 km) above sea level. The plume moved eastward at an average speed of with ash reaching Idaho by noon. Ashes from the eruption were found collecting on top of cars and roofs next morning, as far as the city of Edmonton in Alberta, Canada.\nBy about 5:30 p.m. on May 18, the vertical ash column declined in stature, and less severe outbursts continued through the night and for the next several days. The St. Helens May 18 eruption released 24 megatons of thermal energy; it ejected more than of material. The removal of the north side of the mountain reduced St. Helens' height by about and left a crater to wide and deep, with its north end open in a huge breach. The eruption killed 57 people, nearly 7,000 big game animals (deer, elk, and bear), and an estimated 12 million fish from a hatchery. It destroyed or extensively damaged over 200 homes, of highway and of railways.\n\nBetween 1980 and 1986, activity continued at Mount St. Helens, with a new lava dome forming in the crater. Numerous small explosions and dome-building eruptions occurred. From December 7, 1989, to January 6, 1990, and from November 5, 1990, to February 14, 1991, the mountain erupted with sometimes huge clouds of ash.\n\nMagma reached the surface of the volcano about October 11, 2004, resulting in the building of a new lava dome on the existing dome's south side. This new dome continued to grow throughout 2005 and into 2006. Several transient features were observed, such as a lava spine nicknamed the \"whaleback\", which comprised long shafts of solidified magma being extruded by the pressure of magma beneath. These features were fragile and broke down soon after they were formed. On July 2, 2005, the tip of the whaleback broke off, causing a rockfall that sent ash and dust several hundred meters into the air.\n\nMount St. Helens showed significant activity on March 8, 2005, when a plume of steam and ash emerged—visible from Seattle. This relatively minor eruption was a release of pressure consistent with ongoing dome building. The release was accompanied by a magnitude 2.5 earthquake.\n\nAnother feature to emerge from the dome was called the \"fin\" or \"slab\". Approximately half the size of a football field, the large, cooled volcanic rock was being forced upward as quickly as per day. In mid-June 2006, the slab was crumbling in frequent rockfalls, although it was still being extruded. The height of the dome was , still below the height reached in July 2005 when the whaleback collapsed.\n\nOn October 22, 2006, at 3:13 p.m. PST, a magnitude 3.5 earthquake broke loose Spine 7. The collapse and avalanche of the lava dome sent an ash plume over the western rim of the crater; the ash plume then rapidly dissipated.\n\nOn December 19, 2006, a large white plume of condensing steam was observed, leading some media people to assume there had been a small eruption. However, the Cascades Volcano Observatory of the USGS did not mention any significant ash plume. The volcano was in continuous eruption from October 2004, but this eruption consisted in large part of a gradual extrusion of lava forming a dome in the crater.\n\nOn January 16, 2008, steam began seeping from a fracture on top of the lava dome. Associated seismic activity was the most noteworthy since 2004. Scientists suspended activities in the crater and the mountain flanks, but the risk of a major eruption was deemed low. By the end of January, the eruption paused; no more lava was being extruded from the lava dome. On July 10, 2008, it was determined that the eruption had ended, after more than six months of no volcanic activity.\n\nAmerican Indian lore contains numerous legends to explain the eruptions of Mount St. Helens and other Cascade volcanoes. The most famous of these is the Bridge of the Gods legend told by the Klickitat people. In their tale, the chief of all the gods and his two sons, Pahto (also called Klickitat) and Wy'east, traveled down the Columbia River from the Far North in search for a suitable area to settle.\n\nThey came upon an area that is now called The Dalles and thought they had never seen a land so beautiful. The sons quarreled over the land, so to solve the dispute their father shot two arrows from his mighty bow — one to the north and the other to the south. Pahto followed the arrow to the north and settled there while Wy'east did the same for the arrow to the south. The chief of the gods then built the Bridge of the Gods, so his family could meet periodically.\n\nWhen the two sons of the chief of the gods fell in love with a beautiful maiden named Loowit, she could not choose between them. The two young chiefs fought over her, burying villages and forests in the process. The area was devastated and the earth shook so violently that the huge bridge fell into the river, creating the cascades of the Columbia River Gorge.\n\nFor punishment, the chief of the gods struck down each of the lovers and transformed them into great mountains where they fell. Wy'east, with his head lifted in pride, became the volcano known today as Mount Hood. Pahto, with his head bent toward his fallen love, was turned into Mount Adams. The fair Loowit became Mount St. Helens, known to the Klickitats as Louwala-Clough, which means \"smoking or fire mountain\" in their language (the Sahaptin called the mountain Loowit).\n\nThe mountain is also of sacred importance to the Cowlitz and Yakama tribes that also historically lived in the area. They find the area above its tree line to be of exceptional spiritual significance, and the mountain (which they call \"Lawetlat'la\", roughly translated as \"the smoker\") features prominently in their creation myth, and in some of their songs and rituals. In recognition of this cultural significance, over of the mountain (roughly bounded by the Loowit Trail) have been listed on the National Register of Historic Places.\n\nOther area tribal names for the mountain include \"nšh´ák´\" (\"water coming out\") from the Upper Chehalis, and \"aka akn\" (\"snow mountain\"), a Kiksht term.\n\nRoyal Navy Commander George Vancouver and the officers of HMS \"Discovery\" made the Europeans' first recorded sighting of Mount St. Helens on May 19, 1792, while surveying the northern Pacific Ocean coast. Vancouver named the mountain for British diplomat Alleyne Fitzherbert, 1st Baron St Helens on October 20, 1792, as it came into view when the \"Discovery\" passed into the mouth of the Columbia River.\n\nYears later, explorers, traders, and missionaries heard reports of an erupting volcano in the area. Geologists and historians determined much later that the eruption took place in 1800, marking the beginning of the 57-year-long Goat Rocks Eruptive Period (see geology section). Alarmed by the \"dry snow,\" the Nespelem tribe of northeastern Washington danced and prayed rather than collecting food and suffered during that winter from starvation.\n\nIn late 1805 and early 1806, members of the Lewis and Clark Expedition spotted Mount St. Helens from the Columbia River but did not report either an ongoing eruption or recent evidence of one. They did however report the presence of quicksand and clogged channel conditions at the mouth of the Sandy River near Portland, suggesting an eruption by Mount Hood sometime in the previous decades.\n\nIn 1829 Hall J. Kelley led a campaign to rename the Cascade Range as the President's Range and also to rename each major Cascade mountain after a former President of the United States. In his scheme Mount St. Helens was to be renamed Mount Washington.\n\nThe first authenticated eyewitness report of a volcanic eruption was made in March 1835 by Meredith Gairdner, while working for the Hudson's Bay Company stationed at Fort Vancouver. He sent an account to the \"Edinburgh New Philosophical Journal\", which published his letter in January 1836. James Dwight Dana of Yale University, while sailing with the United States Exploring Expedition, saw the quiescent peak from off the mouth of the Columbia River in 1841. Another member of the expedition later described \"cellular basaltic lavas\" at the mountain's base.\nIn late fall or early winter of 1842, nearby settlers and missionaries witnessed the so-called Great Eruption. This small-volume outburst created large ash clouds, and mild explosions followed for 15 years. The eruptions of this period were likely phreatic (steam explosions). Josiah Parrish in Champoeg, Oregon witnessed Mount St. Helens in eruption on November 22, 1842. Ash from this eruption may have reached The Dalles, Oregon, 48 miles (80 km) southeast of the volcano.\n\nIn October 1843, future California governor Peter H. Burnett recounted a story of an aboriginal American man who badly burned his foot and leg in lava or hot ash while hunting for deer. The likely apocryphal story went that the injured man sought treatment at Fort Vancouver, but the contemporary fort commissary steward, Napoleon McGilvery, disclaimed knowledge of the incident. British lieutenant Henry J. Warre sketched the eruption in 1845, and two years later Canadian painter Paul Kane created watercolors of the gently smoking mountain. Warre's work showed erupting material from a vent about a third of the way down from the summit on the mountain's west or northwest side (possibly at Goat Rocks), and one of Kane's field sketches shows smoke emanating from about the same location.\nOn April 17, 1857, the \"Republican\", a Steilacoom, Washington, newspaper, reported that \"Mount St. Helens, or some other mount to the southward, is seen ... to be in a state of eruption\". The lack of a significant ash layer associated with this event indicates that it was a small eruption. This was the first reported volcanic activity since 1854.\n\nBefore the 1980 eruption, Spirit Lake offered year-round recreational activities. In the summer there was boating, swimming, and camping, while in the winter there was skiing.\n\nFifty-seven people were killed during the eruption. Had the eruption occurred one day later, when loggers would have been at work, rather than on a Sunday, the death toll could have been much higher.\n\n83-year-old Harry R. Truman, who had lived near the mountain for 54 years, became famous when he decided not to evacuate before the impending eruption, despite repeated pleas by local authorities. His body was never found after the eruption.\n\nAnother victim of the eruption was 30-year-old volcanologist David A. Johnston, who was stationed on the nearby Coldwater Ridge. Moments before his position was hit by the pyroclastic flow, Johnston radioed his famous last words: \"Vancouver! Vancouver! This is it!\" Johnston's body was never found.\n\nU.S. President Jimmy Carter surveyed the damage and said, \"Someone said this area looked like a moonscape. But the moon looks more like a golf course compared to what's up there.\" A film crew, led by Seattle filmmaker Otto Seiber, was dropped by helicopter on St. Helens on May 23 to document the destruction. Their compasses, however, spun in circles and they quickly became lost. A second eruption occurred on May 25, but the crew survived and was rescued two days later by National Guard helicopter pilots. Their film, \"The Eruption of Mount St. Helens\", later became a popular documentary.\n\nIn 1982, President Ronald Reagan and the U.S. Congress established the Mount St. Helens National Volcanic Monument, a area around the mountain and within the Gifford Pinchot National Forest.\n\nFollowing the 1980 eruption, the area was left to gradually return to its natural state. In 1987, the U.S. Forest Service reopened the mountain to climbing. It remained open until 2004 when renewed activity caused the closure of the area around the mountain (see \"Geological history\" section above for more details).\n\nMost notable was the closure of the Monitor Ridge trail, which previously let up to 100 permitted hikers per day climb to the summit. On July 21, 2006, the mountain was again opened to climbers. In February 2010, a climber died after falling from the rim into the crater.\n\nThe mountain is now circled by the Loowit Trail at elevations of 4000–4900 feet (1,200-1,500 m). The northern segment of the trail from the South Fork Toutle River on the west to Windy Pass on the east is a restricted zone where camping, biking, pets, fires, and off-trail excursions are all prohibited.\n\nMount St. Helens is a popular climbing destination for both beginning and experienced mountaineers. The peak is climbed year-round, although it is more often climbed from late spring through early fall. All routes include sections of steep, rugged terrain. \nA permit system has been in place for climbers since 1987. A climbing permit is required year-round for anyone who will be above on the slopes of Mount St. Helens.\n\nThe standard hiking/mountaineering route in the warmer months is the Monitor Ridge Route, which starts at the Climbers Bivouac. This is the most popular and crowded route to the summit in the summer and gains about in approximately to reach the crater rim. \nAlthough strenuous, it is considered non-technical climb that involves some scrambling. Most climbers complete the round trip in 7 to 12 hours.\n\nThe Worm Flows Route is considered the standard winter route on Mount St. Helens, as it is the most direct route to the summit. The route gains about in elevation over about from trailhead to summit but does not demand the technical climbing that some other Cascade peaks like Mount Rainier do. The route name refers to the rocky lava flows that surround the route. \nThis route can be accessed via the Marble Mountain Sno-Park and the Swift Ski Trail.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31451841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31451841", "title": "Natural gas in China", "text": "Natural gas in China\n\nOver the last five years, gas consumption, production, and imports in China have grown dramatically, with two-digit growth.\n\nConsidering China's immense demand for energy, gas plays a relatively small role in its energy use, with only 5% of total energy in 2012. However, Chinese authorities see natural gas as a lower-polluting and less carbon-intensive alternative to coal, and gas consumption is increasing rapidly. Natural gas is expected to supply 10% of the nation’s energy supply by 2020.\n\nChina produced 112 billion cubic meters of natural gas in 2013, making it the sixth largest gas producer in the world.Gas production more than doubled over the period 2005-2013.\n\nDespite rapidly rising natural gas production, in 2013 China imported 52 billion cubic meters of natural gas, making it the world's fifth largest gas importer. Imports increased more than tenfold in the period 2008-2013. China has worked to diversify its sources for natural gas imports. \n\nIn 2013, China was the world’s third-largest importer of LNG, behind Japan and Korea. In that year, 85% of China's LNG supply came from Australia, Indonesia, Malaysia, and Qatar.\n\nTo lessen dependence on LNG, China has built pipelines to import natural gas from Myanmar and Central Asia. In 2014, China closed a deal with Russia to import large volumes of gas from eastern Russia, starting in 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "2393475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2393475", "title": "Neltje Blanchan", "text": "Neltje Blanchan\n\nNeltje Blanchan De Graff Doubleday (October 23, 1865 – February 21, 1918) was a United States scientific historian and nature writer who published several books on wildflowers and birds under the pen name Neltje Blanchan. Her work is known for its synthesis of scientific interest with poetic phrasing.\n\nNeltje Blanchan De Graff was born in Chicago to Liverius De Graff, a proprietor of a men's clothing store, and his wife Alice Fair. She was educated at St. John's Preparatory School in New York City and The Masters School in Dobbs Ferry, New York.\n\nNeltje married Frank Nelson Doubleday in Plainfield, New Jersey on June 9, 1886. They had two sons and one daughter: Felix Doty (adopted), Nelson (1889–1949) and Dorothy. They had homes in both New York City and Oyster Bay.\n\nNeltje Doubleday published eleven books under her pen name of Neltje Blanchan. Her works on wildflowers and birds were notable for their combination of scientific facts with poetic expression.\n\nNeltje Doubleday entertained regularly and participated in philanthropic work for the American Red Cross.\n\nIn 1917 she visited the Philippines and China on special assignment as a commissioner for the Red Cross. She died suddenly in Canton, China on February 21, 1918 at age 52.\n\n\nNellie's grandson Nelson Doubleday Jr. was president of the Doubleday publishing company from 1978–1986, when he sold it to the Bertelsmann group from Germany. He purchased the New York Mets in 1986 and was chairman of its board that year when it won the World Series title. In 2002 he sold his half share in the team.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2282768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2282768", "title": "Orthosilicic acid", "text": "Orthosilicic acid\n\nOrthosilicic acid is the chemical compound with formula . It is assumed to be present in dilute solutions of silicon dioxide (silica) in water. It can be synthesized in non-aqueous solutions.\n\nThe term \"silicic acid\" has traditionally been used as a synonym for silicon dioxide, SiO, also known as \"silica\". Strictly speaking, silica is the anhydride of orthosilicic acid, Si(OH), from which it can be obtained by a dehydration reaction. \nThe solubility of silica in pure water is about 1.5mM, or less, depending on the solid state structure of the compound. Because the concentration of orthosilicic acid is so low, it has not been fully characterized. It has been predicted to be \"a very weak acid\". More concentrated solutions of orthosilicic acid are unstable and turn into silica gel and other species.\n\nThe situation changed in 2017, when the orthosilicic acid monomer was obtained by hydrogenolysis of tetrakis(benzoyloxy)silane, (Si(OCHCH), in solution in dimethylacetamide or related solvents. The crystal structure of this compound was determined by X-ray crystallography. Neutron diffraction was also used to determine the location of the hydrogen atoms. Di-silicic acid was synthesized by hydrogenation of its hexa-benzoyloxy derivative, R-SiOSi-R, R=CHCHO. Cyclic trisilicic acid, SiO(OH) and cyclic tetrasilicic acid, SiO(OH) were synthesized by variations of this method.\n\nWith these new discoveries, the term \"silicic acid\" has become ambiguous: it has been applied traditionally as a synonym for silica, SiO, but it can now also be used for the compound Si(OH). The traditional meaning is retained in this article when it was used as such in a cited publication.\n\nOutside the marine environment compounds of silicon have very little biological function. Small quantities of silica are absorbed from the soil by some plants, to be then excreted in the form of phytoliths.\n\nSubcutaneous injections of orthosilicic acid solutions (around 1%) in mice were found to cause local inflammation and edema. Peritoneal injections of 0.1 mL of freshly prepared acid were often lethal. The toxicity decreased markedly as the solution aged, to the point that after the solution turned to a gel it had no effects other than mechanical ones. The solutions were equally toxic when administed by intravenous injection, but seasoned or gelled solutions were about as toxic as fresh ones.\n\nResearch concerning the correlation of aluminium and Alzheimer's disease has included the ability of silicic acid in beer to reduce aluminium uptake in the digestive system as well as to increase renal excretion of aluminium \n\nCholine-stabilized orthosilicic acid (ch-OSA) is a dietary supplement. It has been shown to prevent the loss of tensile strength in human hair; to have a positive effect on the surface and mechanical properties of skin, and on the brittleness of hair and nails; to abate brittle nail syndrome; to partially prevent femoral bone loss in aged ovariectomized rats; to increase the concentration of collagen in calves; and to have a potentially beneficial effect on the formation of collagen in the bones of osteopenic women.\n\n\"Dissolved silica\" (DSi) is a term used in the field of oceanography to describe the form of water-soluble silica, which is assumed to be (orthoslicic acid) or its conjugate bases (orthosilicate anions) such as and . Theoretical computations indicate that the dissolution of silica in water proceeds through the formation of a ·2 complex and then orthosilicic acid.\nThe biogeochemical cycle of silica is regulated by the algae known as the diatoms. These algae polymerise the silicic acid to so-called biogenic silica, used to construct their cell walls (called frustules).\n\nIn the uppermost water column the surface ocean is undersaturated with respect to dissolved silica, except for the Antarctic Circumpolar Current south of 55°S.\n\nThe dissolved silica concentration increases with increasing water depth, and along the conveyor belt from the Atlantic over the Indian into the Pacific Ocean.\n\nFor many decades it was debated whether orthosilicic acid, Si(OH), exists in aqueous solutions at ambient temperature; this uncertainty originated from the poor solubility of silicon dioxide, SiO.\n\nThe solubility of silicon dioxide in water strongly depends on its crystal structure. The species that are present in a solution in equilibrium with a solid have not been definitively characterised because of their low concentrations. Many authors have speculated that silicic acid may be present, at sub-millimolar concentrations, in rivers, lakes and sea water.\n\nOrthosilicic acid was synthesized for the first time in the year 2017. It was obtained by hydrogenolysis of tetrakis(benzoyloxy)silane, (Si(OCHCH), in solution in dimethylacetamide or related solvents. The crystal structure of this compound was determined by X-ray crystallography. Neutron diffraction was also used to determine the location of the hydrogen atoms.\n\nThe conversion of mono-silicic acid to di-silicic acid\nis a dehydration reaction, not an acid-base reaction; in consequence, di-silicic acid cannot be easily obtained from mono-silicic acid. Di-silicic acid was synthesized by hydrogenation of its hexa-benzoyloxy derivative, R-SiOSi-R, R=CHCHO. Cyclic trisilicic acid, SiO(OH) and cyclic tetrasilicic acid, SiO(OH) were synthesized by variations of this method. \n\nThe derivative Si(OH)F has been characterized in aqueous solutions containing \"silicic acid\" and the fluoride ion. A fluoride Ion selective electrode was used to determine its stability constant. The concentration of silicic acid was maintained below 2.5×10 mol/L.\n"}
{"id": "32246369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32246369", "title": "Palimpsest (geology)", "text": "Palimpsest (geology)\n\nIn geology, a palimpsest is a geographical feature composed of superimposed structures created at different times. Palimpsest is beginning to be used by glaciologists to describe contradicting glacial flow indicators, usually consisting of smaller indicators (i.e., striae) overprinted upon larger features (i.e., stoss and lee topography, drumlins, etc.).\n\n"}
{"id": "56993412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56993412", "title": "Plate Tectonics Revolution", "text": "Plate Tectonics Revolution\n\nThe Plate Tectonics Revolution was the scientific and cultural change which developed from the acceptance of the plate tectonics theory. The event was a paradigm shift and scientific revolution.\n\nBy 1966 most scientists in geology accepted the theory of plate tectonics. The root of this was Alfred Wegener's 1912 publication of his theory of continental drift, which was a controversy in the field through the 1950s. At that point scientists introduced new evidence in a new way, replacing the idea of continental drift with instead a theory of plate tectonics. The acceptance of this theory brought scientific and cultural change which commentators called the \"Plate Tectonics Revolution\".\n\nIn 1975 a paper said that \"plate tectonics\" gained general acceptance in its field in 1968 and called that acceptance a revolution.\n\nOne scientist said that the Plate Tectonics Revolution brought excitement among scientists in the field in the 1960s.\n\nPublications in generations after the event reflected on how the Plate Tectonics Revolution was an early example of data science.\n\nOne commentator claimed that the plate tectonics theory became popular and established a revolution in culture even before scientists could confirm some of the claims for which evidence was lacking.\n\nAdvocates of Young Earth creationism challenge the theory.\n\nThere are claims that science in Russia was a significant contribution to the Plate Tectonics Revolution, but Western bias against Russia has blocked recognition of their contributions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "391267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=391267", "title": "Positron emission", "text": "Positron emission\n\nPositron emission or beta plus decay (β decay) is a subtype of radioactive decay called beta decay, in which a proton inside a radionuclide nucleus is converted into a neutron while releasing a positron and an electron neutrino (\"ν\"). Positron emission is mediated by the weak force. The positron is a type of beta particle (β), the other beta particle being the electron (β) emitted from the β decay of a nucleus.\n\nAn example of positron emission (β decay) is shown with magnesium-23 decaying into sodium-23:\n\nBecause positron emission decreases proton number relative to neutron number, positron decay happens typically in large \"proton-rich\" radionuclides. Positron decay results in nuclear transmutation, changing an atom of one chemical element into an atom of an element with an atomic number that is less by one unit.\n\nPositron emission should not be confused with electron emission or beta minus decay (β decay), which occurs when a neutron turns into a proton and the nucleus emits an electron and an antineutrino.\n\nPositron emission is different from proton decay, the hypothetical decay of protons, not necessarily those bound with neutrons, not necessarily through the emission of a positron and not as part of nuclear physics, but rather of particle physics.\n\nIn 1934 Frédéric and Irène Joliot-Curie bombarded aluminium with alpha particles to effect the nuclear reaction  +  →  + , and observed that the product isotope emits a positron identical to those found in cosmic rays by Carl David Anderson in 1932. This was the first example of  decay (positron emission). The Curies termed the phenomenon \"artificial radioactivity,\" since is a short-lived nuclide which does not exist in nature. The discovery of artificial radioactivity would be cited when the husband and wife team won the Nobel Prize.\n\nIsotopes which undergo this decay and thereby emit positrons include carbon-11, potassium-40, nitrogen-13, oxygen-15, aluminium-26, sodium-22, fluorine-18, and iodine-124. As an example, the following equation describes the beta plus decay of carbon-11 to boron-11, emitting a positron and a neutrino:\n\nInside protons and neutrons, there are fundamental particles called quarks. The two most common types of quarks are \"up quarks\", which have a charge of +/, and \"down quarks\", with a −/ charge. Quarks arrange themselves in sets of three such that they make protons and neutrons. In a proton, whose charge is +1, there are two \"up\" quarks and one \"down\" quark (/ + / − / = 1). Neutrons, with no charge, have one \"up\" quark and two \"down\" quarks (/ − / − / = 0). Via the weak interaction, quarks can change flavor from \"down\" to \"up\", resulting in electron emission. Positron emission happens when an \"up\" quark changes into a \"down\" quark. (/ − 1 = −/).\n\nNuclei which decay by positron emission may also decay by electron capture. For low-energy decays, electron capture is energetically favored by 2\"m\"\"c\" = 1.022 MeV, since the final state has an electron removed rather than a positron added. As the energy of the decay goes up, so does the branching ratio towards positron emission. However, if the energy difference is less than 2\"m\"\"c\", then positron emission cannot occur and electron capture is the sole decay mode. Certain otherwise electron-capturing isotopes (for instance, ) are stable in galactic cosmic rays, because the electrons are stripped away and the decay energy is too small for positron emission.\n\nA positron is ejected from the parent nucleus, and the daughter (Z−1) atom must shed an orbital electron to balance charge. The overall results is that the mass of two electrons are ejected from the atom (one for the positron and one for the electron), and the β decay is energetically possible only if the mass of the parent atom exceeds the mass of the daughter atom by at least two electron masses (1.02 MeV).\n\nIsotopes which increase in mass under the conversion of a proton to a neutron, or which decrease in mass by less than 2\"m\", cannot spontaneously decay by positron emission.\n\nThese isotopes are used in positron emission tomography, a technique used for medical imaging. Note that the energy emitted depends on the isotope that is decaying; the figure of 0.96 MeV applies only to the decay of carbon-11.\n\nThe short-lived positron emitting isotopes C, N, O and F used for positron emission tomography are typically produced by proton irradiation of natural or enriched targets.\n\n"}
{"id": "30557217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30557217", "title": "Rajmahal Traps", "text": "Rajmahal Traps\n\nRajmahal Traps is a volcanic igneous province in Eastern India, covering the parts of Jharkhand, West Bengal and Meghalaya. Rajmahal hills of Jharkhand is the type area of this province. Multiple layers of solidified lava made thick Rajmahal hill which is dipping 2°-5° towards north-east. Individual layers vary in thickness from less than 1 metre to more than 70 meters.\n\nThese volcanic rocks were formed from the eruptions of the Kerguelen hotspot in the early Cretaceous. The similarity between the geochemical data of Rajmahal volcanis and lavas of the Kerguelen Plateau confirms this. According to the plate tectonics, the Indian subcontinent was over this hot spot during the Cretaceous age.\n\nThe original lava flow covered an area of nearly . Below the Bengal basin the flows cover .\n\nThe Rajmahal volcanics are predominantly tholeiitic basalt, quartz tholeiite, olivine tholeiite and alkali basalt. The Intertrappean Beds are composed of sedimentary rock like siltstone, claystone and shale.\n\nThe western boundary of the Rajmahal Traps is faulted and down-thrown towards the east. The eastern boundary of this trap has a North-South trending, fault-controlled basement. This basement connects the Purnea basin of the Ganga valley with the Bengal basin. These faulted contacts, along with the Damodar Gondwana graben, form a triple junction at the mouth of the Bengal basin. The trap evolved along the then eastern continental margin of India, following rifting of Gondwanaland. Over the epochs, the upper part of the lava deformed in a cold, brittle fashion and formed graben structures.\n\nThe Intertrappean Beds contain assamblage of lower cretaceous plant fossil. The assemblage includes \"Cladophlebis indica\", \"Dictyozamites indicus\", \"Taeniopteris spatulata\", \"Brachyphyllum rhombium\".\n\n"}
{"id": "883842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=883842", "title": "Rasputitsa", "text": "Rasputitsa\n\nRasputitsa () is a Russian language term for two periods of the year (or \"seasons\") when travel on unpaved roads becomes difficult, owing to muddy conditions from rain or thawing snow. That is, it is applied to both spring and autumn. The word \"rasputitsa\" is also used to refer to the condition of roads during both periods.\n\nThe term is applied to muddy road conditions in Belarus, Russia and Ukraine, which are caused by the poor drainage of underlying clay-laden soils found in the region. Roads are subject to weight limitations and closures during the period in certain districts of Russia. The phenomenon was a hindrance in the early 20th century in the Soviet Union since 40% of rural villages were not served by paved roads.\n\n\"Rasputitsa\" seasons of Russia are well known as a great defensive advantage in wartime. Common nicknames are \"General Mud\" or \"Marshal Mud\". During the French invasion of Russia in 1812, Napoleon found the mud to be a great hindrance.\n\nDuring the Second World War, the month-long muddy period slowed down the German advance during the Battle of Moscow and may have helped save the Soviet capital from German occupation.\n\n"}
{"id": "2823596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2823596", "title": "SINPO code", "text": "SINPO code\n\nSINPO, an acronym for Signal, Interference, Noise, Propagation, and Overall, is a Signal Reporting Code used to describe the quality of radiotelegraph transmissions. SINPFEMO, an acronym for Signal, Interference, Noise, Propagation, frequency of Fading, Modulation, dEpth, and Overall is used to describe the quality of radiotelephony transmissions. SINPFEMO code consists of the SINPO code plus the addition of three letters to describe additional features of radiotelephony transmissions. These codes are defined by \"Recommendation ITU-R Sm.1135, SINPO and SINPFEMO codes\".\n\nSINPO code is most frequently used in reception reports written by shortwave listeners. Each letter of the code stands for a specific factor of the signal, and each item is graded on a 1 to 5 scale (where 1 stands for nearly undetectable/severe/unusable and 5 for excellent/nil/extremely strong).\n\nThe code originated with the CCIR (a predecessor to the ITU-R) in 1951, and was widely used by BBC shortwave listeners to submit signal reports, with many going so far as to mail audio recordings to the BBC's offices.\n\nSINPO and SINPFEMO are the official signal reporting codes for international civil aviation and ITU-R.\n\nThe use of the SINPO code can be subjective and may vary from person to person. Not all shortwave listeners are conversant with the SINPO code and prefer using plain language instead.\n\n\nEach category is rated from 1 to 5 with 1 being 'unusable' or 'severe' and 5 being 'perfect' or 'nil'. MANY raters misunderstand the code and will rate everything either 55555 or 11111 when in reality both extremes are unusual in the extreme. '55555' essentially means 'perfect reception akin to a local station' while that is occasionally possible, when talking about long-distance short-wave reception, it is almost never the case.\n\nAnother common mistake in rating is presenting an 'O' higher than any previously rated element. By definition, a station cannot present 'perfect' reception if there is any Noise or Interference or Fading present. In other words, it is NOT 'perfect local quality' reception if any of those things are present.\n\nAn extension of SINPO code, for use in radiotelephony (voice over radio) communications, SINPFEMO is an acronym for Signal, Interference, Noise, Propagation, frequency of Fading, dEpth, Modulation, and Overall.\n\nIn responding to a shortwave reception, the SINPO indicates to the transmitting station the overall quality of the reception.\n\nThe SINPO code in normal use consists of the 5 rating numbers listed without the letters, as in the examples below:\n\n\nGenerally, a SINPO with a code number starting with a 2 or lower would not be worth reporting, unless there is no noise, interference or loss of propagation, since it would be likely the signal would be unintelligible.\n\nAlthough the original SINPO code established technical specifications for each number (i.e., a number 3 in the P column meant a fixed number of fades per minute), these are rarely adhered to by reporters. The 'S' meter displays the relative strength of the received RF signal in decibels; however, this should not be used as the sole indication of signal strength, as no two S meters are calibrated exactly alike, and many lower-priced receivers omit the S meter altogether. References to a \"SINFO\" code may also be found in some literature. In this case, the 'F' stands for Fading, instead of 'P' for Propagation, but the two codes are interchangeable. It was presumed that the average listener would be more familiar with the meaning of \"fading\" than \"propagation\". A simple way to ensure the rating applied is useful is to rate the \"O\" column first based on the intelligibility of the station. If you can understand everything easily, the station will rate a 4 or higher. If you have to work hard, but can understand everything '3' is the appropriate rating. If you cannot understand everything although you put great effort into it, a '2' is appropriate, and if you cannot understand the programming at all '1' is the appropriate rating.\n\nSome listeners may not know how to distinguish between the 'I' which indicates interference from adjacent stations, and the 'N' which describes natural atmospheric or man-made noise; also for some listeners, the rating for 'Propagation' may not be completely understood. As a result of this confusion, many stations suggest the SIO code – a simpler code which makes the limitations noted above not relevant. Despite this, some books and periodicals maintain the SINPO code is the best for DX reporters.\n\nSINPO is said to have evolved from the BBC's RAISO format (full version: RAFISBEMVO, which measured:\n\n"}
{"id": "35607283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35607283", "title": "Superfluidity", "text": "Superfluidity\n\nSuperfluidity is the characteristic property of a fluid with zero viscosity which therefore flows without loss of kinetic energy. When stirred, a superfluid forms cellular vortices that continue to rotate indefinitely. Superfluidity occurs in two isotopes of helium (helium-3 and helium-4) when they are liquified by cooling to cryogenic temperatures. It is also a property of various other exotic states of matter theorized to exist in astrophysics, high-energy physics, and theories of quantum gravity. The phenomenon is related to Bose–Einstein condensation, but neither is a specific type of the other: not all Bose-Einstein condensates can be regarded as superfluids, and not all superfluids are Bose–Einstein condensates. The theory of superfluidity was developed by Lev Landau.\n\nSuperfluidity was originally discovered in liquid helium, by Pyotr Kapitsa and John F. Allen. It has since been described through phenomenology and microscopic theories. In liquid helium-4, the superfluidity occurs at far higher temperatures than it does in helium-3. Each atom of helium-4 is a boson particle, by virtue of its integer spin. A helium-3 atom is a fermion particle; it can form bosons only by pairing with itself at much lower temperatures. The discovery of superfluidity in helium-3 was the basis for the award of the 1996 Nobel Prize in Physics. This process is similar to the electron pairing in superconductivity.\n\nSuperfluidity in an ultracold fermionic gas was experimentally proven by Wolfgang Ketterle and his team who observed quantum vortices in Li at a temperature of 50 nK at MIT in April 2005. Such vortices had previously been observed in an ultracold bosonic gas using Rb in 2000, and more recently in two-dimensional gases. As early as 1999 Lene Hau created such a condensate using sodium atoms for the purpose of slowing light, and later stopping it completely. Her team subsequently used this system of compressed light to generate the superfluid analogue of shock waves and tornadoes:\n\nThe idea that superfluidity exists inside neutron stars was first proposed by\nArkady Migdal. By analogy with electrons inside superconductors forming Cooper pairs due to electron-lattice interaction, it is expected that nucleons in a neutron star at sufficiently high density and low temperature can also form\nCooper pairs due to the long-range attractive nuclear force and lead to superfluidity\nand superconductivity.\n\nSuperfluid vacuum theory (SVT) is an approach in theoretical physics and quantum mechanics where the physical vacuum is viewed as superfluid.\n\nThe ultimate goal of the approach is to develop scientific models that unify quantum mechanics (describing three of the four known fundamental interactions) with gravity. This makes SVT a candidate for the theory of quantum gravity and an extension of the Standard Model.\n\nIt is hoped that development of such theory would unify into a single consistent model of all fundamental interactions,\nand to describe all known interactions and elementary particles as different manifestations of the same entity, superfluid vacuum.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26700324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26700324", "title": "Urstromtal", "text": "Urstromtal\n\nAn urstromtal (plural: \"Urstromtäler\") is a type of broad glacial valley, for example, in northern Central Europe, that appeared during the ice ages, or individual glacial periods of an ice age, at the edge of the Scandinavian ice sheet and was formed by meltwaters that flowed more or less parallel to the ice margin. \"Urstromtäler\" are an element of the glacial series. The term is German and means \"ancient stream valley\". Although often translated as \"glacial valley\", it should not be confused with a valley carved out by a glacier. More accurately some sources call them \"meltwater valleys\" or \"ice-marginal valleys\".\n\nImportant for the emergence of the \"Urstromtäler\" is the fact that the general lie of the land on the North German Plain and in Poland slopes down from south to north. Thus the ice sheet that advanced from Scandinavia flowed into a rising terrain. The meltwaters could therefore only flow for a short distance southwards over the sandurs (outwash plains) before having to find a way to the North Sea basin that was parallel to the ice margin. At that time, the area that is now the North Sea was dry as a result of the low level of the sea.\n\nAs elements of the glacial series, \"Urstromtäler\" are intermeshed with sandur areas for long stretches along their northern perimeters. It was over these outwash plains that the meltwaters poured into them. \"Urstromtäler\" are relatively uniformly composed of sands and gravels; the grain size can vary considerably, however. Fine sand dominates especially in the upper sections of the \"Urstromtal\" sediments. The thickness of the \"Urstromtal\" sediments also varies a great deal, but is mostly well over ten metres.\n\n\"Urstromtäler\" have a wide and very flat valley bottom that is between 1.5 and 20 kilometres wide. The valley sides, by contrast are only a few to a few dozen metres high. The bottom and the edges of an \"Urstromtal\" may have been significantly altered by younger processes, especially the thawing of dead ice blocks or the accumulation of sand dunes. In the post-glacial period, many \"Urstromtäler\" became bogs due to their low lying situation and the high water table.\n\nIn Central Europe there are several \"Urstromtäler\" from various periods.\n\nSome sections of the aforementioned main valleys have been given their own names. The Lusatian \"Urstromtal\" and the Aller \"Urstromtal\" are parts of the Breslau-Magdeburg-Bremen \"Urstromtal\". The Baruth, Berlin and Eberswalde \"Urstromtäler\" are common short names for the associated sections of the \"Urstromtal\" in Brandenburg.\n\nIn addition to the large main valleys there are also numerous smaller meltwater valleys (\"Urstromtalungen\"). Their appearances is similar to that of the great \"Urstromtäler\", but they are considerably shorter. They are also not linked to a sandur and a terminal moraine.\n\nUrstromtals of Central Europe (Poland, Germany and Denmark especially) were directly connected to the North Atlantic Ocean, via the Channel River, during Pleistocene maximum glaciations, i.e. at time of confluence of the British and Fennoscandian ice-sheets in the intervening North Sea.\n\n\"Urstromtäler\" should not be confused with tunnel valleys. The latter are formed beneath, not in front of, the ice mass. In addition most tunnel valleys run from north to south. The principal direction of \"Urstromtäler\" is from east to west. Today \"Urstromtäler\" are only partly used by rivers, because the majority have found shorter routes to the sea (like the Oder and Vistula). The straight troughs of the \"Urstromtäler\" between the rivers were used for canal routes due to their low gradient, for example for the Elbe–Havel Canal or the Oder–Havel Canal.\n\nBecause the land in North America and on the Russian Plain tilts towards the south, the formation of \"Urstromtäler\" there during the ice age did not take place. The Mississippi River and its tributaries carried the meltwaters of the North American ice sheet away. In Eastern Europe the meltwaters flowed down the river basins of the Dnieper, Don and Volga.\n\n\"Urstromtäler\", whether sandy or boggy, posed considerable obstacles to movement in the Middle Ages. As a result, the trade routes converged on points where the valley could be crossed comparatively easily. These hubs thus became favourite sites for the founding of towns or castles. Examples from the German state of Brandenburg include Berlin, Fürstenwalde, Luckenwalde and Baruth/Mark, and from Lower Saxony the town of Vorsfelde and Wolfsburg Castle.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "103596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103596", "title": "Wildfowl &amp; Wetlands Trust", "text": "Wildfowl &amp; Wetlands Trust\n\nThe Wildfowl & Wetlands Trust (WWT) is an international wildfowl and wetland conservation charity in the United Kingdom. Its patron is Queen Elizabeth II and its president is Prince Charles.\n\nThe WWT was founded in 1946 by the ornithologist and artist Sir Peter Scott as the Severn Wildfowl Trust.\n\nThe WWT was instrumental in saving the nēnē from the brink of extinction in the 1950s.\n\nThe WWT has over 200,000 members and ten reserves with visitor centres. Together these cover over 20 km², and support over 150,000 birds. They receive over one million visitors per year. The reserves include seven SSSIs (site of Special Scientific Interest), five SPAs (Special Protection Areas) and five Ramsar sites.\n\n\nWWT also operates a consultancy business that provides external clients with a comprehensive range of wetland services. These include ecological survey and assessment, habitat design and management, visitor centre planning and design, and wetland treatment systems.\n\nThe Trust is a registered charity in England and Scotland. , the Trust's chief executive is Martin Spray. In December 2012, he was appointed CBE.\n\n"}
