{"id": "1435055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1435055", "title": "Al Ahly SC", "text": "Al Ahly SC\n\nAl Ahly Sporting Club (Classical Arabic: النادي الأهلي للرياضة البدنية, The National Sporting Club) is an Egyptian sports club based in Cairo, Egypt. It is known as \"the club of the century\" in African football. It is best known for its professional football team that plays in the Egyptian Premier League, the top tier in the Egyptian football league system, and is the most decorated football club in Africa. It was founded on 24 April 1907, as a gathering place for Cairo's Student Unions.\n\nAl Ahly has a record of 40 national titles, 36 national cups, and 10 national super cups making Al Ahly the most decorated club in Egypt. In addition, Al Ahly has never been relegated to the second division.\n\nIn international competitions, the club has won a record 8 CAF Champions League titles, a CAF Confederation Cup title, a record 6 CAF Super Cup titles, a record 4 African Cup Winners' Cup titles, an Afro-Asian Club Championship title, an Arab Club Champions Cup title, an Arab Cup Winners' Cup title, and a record 2 Arab Super Cup titles. Al Ahly also won the bronze medal in the 2006 FIFA Club World Cup.\nAl Ahly is the second most successful club in the world in terms of number of international titles (24) behind Real Madrid (25).\n\nThe idea of establishing Al Ahly in the first decade of the century was raised by Omar Lotfy during his presidency of the High School Students Club which was established in 1905 The establishment of the club of high school students was for political reasons, and found that these students needed a sport club that combined them for leisure and exercise. He introduced the idea of establishing the club to a group of friends who were enthusiastic about the idea. In 1907, Al Ahly was established.\nOmar Lotfy abdicated the honor of the position of the president of the club in favor of Michel Anse, who was an advisor to the Ministry of Finance at the time to facilitate financial support for the club. An official meeting of the club's board was held on April 24, 1907. The committee met at 5:30 pm in the house of Michel Anas Giza in his chairmanship and the membership of Idris Ragheb Bey, Ismael Sari Pasha and Sami Basha and Omar Lotfi Bek and Mohamed Effendi Sherif as secretary The establishment of the club was approved and Ismail Seri designed the main building of the club as an architect. A civil company on behalf of Al Ahly Sports Club was established and shares of the company worth 5EGP Pounds per share, and was the goal of the club when it was established to raise the amount of 5000 pounds, but it was Collected 3165 pounds over a year and that was not enough, which forced the club to borrow 1,000 pounds from the National Bank of Egypt in March 1908 by Omar Sultan and Idris Ragheb and Talaat Harb which contributed 100 pounds to the establishment of the club. First honorary president of the club was the leader Saad Zaghloul in his position as Ministry of Education that time. The name of the Al Ahly Sporting Club was suggested by Amine Samy Amin, to serve the students and graduates of high schools who were the mainstay of the revolution against the English occupation.\n\nOn April 2, 1908, Michel Inse stepped down as president of the club. Aziz Azzat was appointed as new president and became the first Egyptian president of Al Ahly. The official opening ceremony of the club was held in the club's main building on 26 February 1909.\n\nAlthough the game of football was not one of the goals of the founders of Al Ahly club the goal of the club was openining its doors to students of higher schools to meet and practice political dialogues, but the graduates of high schools members of the club have fallen in love with football, which prompted Ahly to build the first stadium In 1909 and they used to call it the time (Al-Hawsh), which is a colloquial word from Egyptian dialect means the courtyard in Arabic. The stadium was developed over the years to be Mokhtar El-Tetsh Stadium.\n\nThe first official football team was established in 1911. The team is one of the primary and secondary school players who played the ball in Al-Hawash, which was established in 1909 in the club's land. The names of the first players of Al Ahli club were as follows: Hussain Higazi, Abdel Fattah Taher, Fouad Darwish, Hussein Mansour and Ibrahim Fahmy. The star of this team was the striker Hussein Hegazi.\n\nIn 1917, Al ahly wanted to demonstrate the strength of the Egyptian clubs against the Allied military teams founded by Britain in Egypt. Al Ahly agreed to play against Zamalek SC, which was under the control of foreigners at this time. The match was held on February 9, 1917 at Zamalek Stadium. Al-Ahly won 1-0 with a goal scored by Abdulhamid Muharram.\nIn 1918 the club first official participation was held. After Al Ahly refused to compete with the foreign allies for the first edition of the Sultan Husain Cup in 1917, the club decided to participate in the 1918 tournament.\n\nAhly contributed with Zamalek SC, El Sekka El Hadid SC in the formation of the first football team of Egypt to participate in the Olympic games 1920.\nAl-Ahly contributed to the establishment of the Egyptian Football Association.In 1923, Al Ahly played an active role in the establishment of the Egyptian Tennis Federation.\n\nThe Egyptian League championship began in 1948–49. Al Ahly won the inaugural competition, the first of nine successive national championship titles. Following the deposing of King Farouk in the revolution of 1952, Ahly appointed Gamal Abdel Nasser as club president.\n\nAl-Ahly did not win the league for 13 years. After years of deterioration, Ahly took the first steps to recovery when the management decided to sign the golden player of Hungary in the fifties, Nándor Hidegkuti, in September 1973 at a salary of fewer than 600 dollars. The title returned to Al Ahly in 1974–1975, with the team scoring 70 goals in 34 games. Ahly won the league championship in 1976–1977. This season saw the second participation in African competition, where the team fared better than the first time, bowing out in the quarter-finals to Hearts of Oak Ghana.\n\nAl Ahly won the 1981–1982 tournament, defeating Ghana's Asante Kotoko S.C. in the final, winning the first leg 3–0 thanks to two goals by Mahmoud El Khatib and one by Alaa Mayhoub. In the return match in Kumasi, Mahmoud Khatib returned to score again and the game ended 1–1, with Al-Ahly winning their first continental championship. Al-Ahly reached the final of the African Champions League for the second time in a row in 1983, but rival Kotoko managed to avenge their defeat by scoring the only goal in both matches. Al-Ahly reached a continental final again in 1984; this time the African Cup of Nations Cup. Against Cameroon's Yaounde, Al-Ahly won on penalties in the Cameroonian capital after a 1–1 draw in both games. For the third time in a row, Al Ahly won the African Cup in 1986 after winning the league championship.\nAhly defeated g Sujara in the final 3–2 on aggregate, with Taher Abouzeid scoring two goals and Magdi Abdel Ghani one goal.\n\nAfter winning the Egypt Cup for the third time in a row in 1993, Al Ahly returned to Africa by winning the African Cup Winners' Cup for the fourth time in its history in 1993, which was the last participation of the club in this tournament. Al Ahly has won the African Cup Winners' Cup four times, more than any other team. Al-Ahly beat Ivory Coast's Africa Sports d'Abidjan in the final with a penalty by Adel Abdelrahman in Cairo Stadium after a 1–1 draw in the first leg. In the same season, Al Ahly won the Egyptian Cup by beating Ghazl El Mahalla SC 3–2 in the final.\n\nAl Ahly participated in the Arab Championships for the first time in 1994 after a decision to boycott the African tournaments due to weak financial returns. They won the cup by defeating Al-Shabab FC (Riyadh) with a goal by Felix Aboagye in the final. After leading Al Ahly to its second consecutive league title and the Arab Super Cup in Morocco, Rainer Holman left Al Ahly at the end of 1997, after finishing second in the Arab League Champions League in Tunisia. He was replaced by his countryman Rainer Tsubil, who succeeded in winning the league championship for the fifth consecutive season in 1997–1998. Al Ahly won the 1998 Arab Super Cup title with Tsubil for the second successive season after beating MC Oran, Algerian, Saudi Arabia, and African-Tunisian. Al-Ahly returned to the African partnership for the first time in six years.\n\nIn the summer of 2001, Ahly signed Manuel Jose to take on the technical leadership of the team and this was the first time in the history of the club, which is used by a coach from the Portuguese school.\nJose's first acquaintance with Al Ahly was the friendly match against Real Madrid in August 2001, when the Reds shocked Europe's oldest club with the goal of Nigerian Sunday Ebege. It was the fourth time in history that Al-Ahli had defeated a European team with a newly crowned Champions League title. Al-Ahly won the African Champions League title 4–1 victory over South Africa's Mamelodi Sundowns F.C.. Al Ahli also confirmed his continental supremacy by grabbing the Super Cup with another landslide victory over South African team. This time the victim was Kaizer Chiefs F.C., who lost 4–1 in Cairo in a match in which Ahly goalkeeper Essam El-Hadary scored his historic goal. Jose was unable to collect any local championship in his first term.\n\nAl-Ahly also won the first Egyptian Super Cup with an exciting win over ENPPI Club 1–0, with a goal in extra time by Wael Gomaa. At the end of 2005, Ahly won the African Champions League for the fourth time in their history after Tunisia's 3–0 defeat of Étoile Sportive du Sahel in Cairo before winning the Super Cup by beating Association Sportive des FAR with penalties. Al Ahly then appeared at the FIFA Club World Cup in Japan for the first time, but the start was not successful as the team lost to Sydney FC and then Saudi Arabia's Al-Ittihad Club (Jeddah).\n\nMany believe that 2006 is the best in the history of Al Ahly in terms of various achievements, starting with the Super League for the second time with another exciting win over Enppi with the goal of in stoppage time. Al-Ahly is also re-winning the league title for the second time in a row. Al Ahly then returned to the Egyptian Cup with a big 3–0 win over Zamalek SC, scoring the full mark in local championships. Then Africa again and reaches the final with CS Sfaxien the first league in cairo stadium ended 1-1 to reach the return game to the last seconds and the result was 0-0 until the historic moment where left foot of Mohamed Aboutrika set a new history in the letters of gold in the records of Ahly.\n\nAl Ahly reached world cup for clubs in Japan and got the bronze medal as third place for the first time in African history after beating Auckland City FC New Zealand and a 2–1 win over Club América in Yokohama. The red control continued on the league's shield and Al Ahly won the title by 17 points away from Ismaily SC. The team also won the Super Cup for the fourth time in a row by beating Al Zamalek 2–0 with goals by Ahmed Hassan and Moataz Eno.\n\nAl Ahly won African champions league for the sixth timr with a 4–2 win over Coton Sport FC de Garoua in the final two games, Ahly set off for the Club World Cup again, but this time the results were not good, with two defeats from C.F. Pachuca and Adelaide Football Club . Al-Ahly started 2009 with the title of the Super African Cup after defeating CS Sfaxien 2–1 with Flávio Amado's goals, before the start of an exciting race on the league's shield with Ismaily, who became the top until the last two minutes of the season. After Ismaily beat Tersana SC, Al-Ahly held the lead against Tala'ea El-Gaish SC until the 93rd minute, when Ahmed Fathi scored the winner's winner and striker Mohamed Talaat added the goal of the promotion to lead the two leaders to a playoff to determine the hero.\nAl Ahly won the match 1-0 by Flavio goal and won the Egyptian league shield.\nIt was the last Portuguese championship for Manuel Jose during his second term before leaving and leaving the team's leadership to Hossam El-Badry. Hossam Al-Badri managed to keep the shield in Al-Ahly's 2009–2010 cupboard to become the first national coach to win the league championship in 23 years, before Al Ahly won the Egyptian Super Cup by defeating Haras El Hodoud SC 1–0.\n\nIn the African Champions League, Al Ahly qualified for the semi-finals but was knocked out by Espérance Sportive de Tunis because of a famous referee Joseph Lamptey mistake that gave the hosts a win in the return game with a clear touch of hand goal by Michael Eneramo. the sports activity in Egypt was postponed because of Port Said Stadium riot. In the first match after the return of sports activity, Ahly won the Egyptian Super Cup when defeated Enppi 2–1 in a sad match at the empty stadium of Borg El Arab Stadium. Despite the difficult events, the men of Al-Ahly overcame all circumstances and achieved the African Champions League for the seventh time when they beat Esperance in the Tunisian home 2-1 by Gedo and Walid Soliman, after finishing the first leg 1–1.\n\nHossam Al-Badri left the team to Mohamed Youssef, who managed to complete the march successfully and lead Ahly to the African Champions League for the eighth time by beating South African Orlando Pirates 2–0 in the return match after a 1–1 draw. The return match was the last impression of the fans of the legend Mohamed Abotreka when he scored the first goal to be the last goal of his eternal journey in the red shirt.\n\nAl Ahly made his way to the African Confederations Cup after an early exit from the Champions League, but the Red Giant had a strong new impetus, which was the addition of this continental tournament to the club's first-ever cupboard. Indeed, Al Ahly reached the final against Séwé FC but lost the first game 2–1. In the return match, the draw went on until the sixth minute of stoppage time.\nAt a historic moment, Ahly's determination to win, Emad Moteab grabbed the goal of the coronation with a deadly\nheader that made every fan celebrating in Cairo stadium and made coach Juan Carlos Garrido running in Hysteria on the pitch.\nWith this victory.\n\nAl Ahly went through a critical phase after the most of stars of the old generation retired, causing the loss of a number of tournaments until the team regained its balance when they met with Zamalek to determine the Super Cup champion in the game that was held in Dubai for the first time at the end of 2015.\nAbdul-Aziz Abdul-Shafi led the Red Giant to a 3–2 win over Zamalek to add the ninth Egyptian Super cup in the club's history.\n\nAl Ahly won the league title after only missing one season in 2015–2016, seven points difference between champions Zamalek, and Ahly finished the competition as the strongest attack and the strongest defense under the leadership of Dutchman Martin Jol.\n\nAl Ahly won Premier League title for the 39th time in his history before the end of the league with four rounds, he has also managed to play the 39th game in a row without losing any defeat at all competitions.\nAl Ahly has achieved a special number in the number of games without defeat 30 games in the league.\nunder the leadership of Hossam El-Badry Al Ahly was able able to keep clean sheet in 30 games this season in various local and continental competitions so far this season.\n\nAl-Ahly won the Egyptian Cup for the 36th time in his history after beating Egypt 2-1 in a marathon match at the Egyptian Cup final at Borg El Arab Stadium. Al-Ahly proved \nAl-Masri scored in the 102nd minute before Amr Gamal equalized in the 117th minute and Ahmed Fathy added the winner in the 120th minute.\n\nAl Ahly won CAF Champions League in 1982 and 1987. They triumphed again in 2001, 2005, 2006 and 2008 under the coaching of the Portuguese Manuel José, in 2012 and finally in 2013 under the coaching of Hossam El-Badry in 2012 and Mohamed Youssef in 2013; making them the most crowned team in Africa, with 8 Champions League, One Confederation Cup, 4 Cup Winners' Cups, 6 Super Cups and One Afro-Asian Club Championship.\n\nThe Cairo Derby, is a football match between Egyptian clubs Al Ahly SC and Zamalek SC. It is a match between arguably the two most successful clubs in Egypt and Africa. Ahly and Zamalek were named by the Confederation of African Football (CAF) as The 1st and 2nd African Clubs of the 20th Century respectively. Both teams are located in Greater Cairo and their matches are considered the highlight of the football season with a live broadcast to most of the Middle Eastern and North African countries since the 1970s. Usually the derby is played twice each season with two matches in the Egyptian Premier League, but it is not uncommon to find the teams meeting each other in the Egypt Cup, especially in the final, and in Africa's most prestigious club competition, the CAF Champions League.\n\nAl Ahly has a large fanbase of ultras named Ultras Ahlawy (UA07) which is known for its pyro displays. Their motto is Together Forever, Ultras Ahlawy raised its banner for the first time at a match against ENPPI Club on 13 April 2007, Ultras Ahlawy also supports the Al-Ahly basketball, volleyball, and handball teams.\n\n2005 represented an especially unique season in Ahly's illustrious history. The team would go on to set an unprecedented record of going an entire season being unbeaten in almost all possible competitions. 46 matches were played in the Egyptian Premier League, Egypt Cup, Egyptian Super Cup and CAF Champions League, with Ahly remaining unbeaten in all of them (as well as winning 5 from all 6 trophies).\n\nAmin Sami Pasha was the first one to propose the name of the Al Ahly Athletic Club. Al Ahly was named because it was created to serve the students and graduates of the high schools who were the mainstay of the revolution against the English occupation.\n\nAl Ahly formerly played their home games at their own ground, Mokhtar El-Tetsh Stadium, but its capacity was too small for the club's support so they turned Mokhtar El-Tetsh Stadium to their Training Ground. As a consequence, Al-Ahly moved to play their home games at the Cairo International Stadium. Al Ahly stopped playing their home games at the Cairo International Stadium since 2014 for an indefinite period due to security reasons. In the 2016–2017 season Al Ahly played most of their home games at Al-Salam Stadium and played their matches in the African competitions at Borg El Arab Stadium.At first leg of Egyptian League 2017-2018 AL Ahly returned to play at Cairo International Stadium.\n\nAl Ahly SC Stadium () is a football stadium currently under construction in Cairo, Egypt. It will also host Al Ahly SC matches, replacing Cairo International Stadium.It will have a capacity of 60,000 spectators.\n\nOn November 3, 1917, Mohammed Sharif Sabri Bek, a member of the club, and King Farouk, designed the first logo for Al Ahly. It was an oval shape adorned with the crown of the Egyptian king at the upper end, symbolizing the royal rule of Egypt at the time. The eagle was shaved then changed to half red and half white and then became red only because of Egypt's flag at the time of the era of Abbas Hilmi II.\nThe slogan was added in the celebration of Al Ahly being founded. \n\n\n!colspan=5|African Club Competitions\n!Year\n!CAF Champions League\n!African Cup Winners' Cup\n!CAF Cup\n!CAF Super Cup\n"}
{"id": "7662041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7662041", "title": "Alter Eco", "text": "Alter Eco\n\nAlter Eco refers to two alternative trading organization, first founded in 1998 by Tristan Lecomte in France, and followed by Mathieu Senard and Eduoard Rollet in the United States, and Ilse Keijzer in Australia. \n\nAlter Eco France specializes in Fairtrade and responsible food products. The organization is part of the Fair Trade movement and offers its products in several French mass retailers such as Monoprix, Cora, Match, Système U, E.Leclerc and Carrefour. , there are over 100 Alter Eco Fair Trade products on the market, sourced from 42 cooperatives in 37 countries. Some Alter Eco Fair Trade products include coffee, tea, rice, sugar, quinoa, chocolate, olive oil, juice and cotton balls. \n\nIn 2006, Alter Eco France approached Brazilian retailers to sell Brazilian products in the country under Fair Trade terms, creating the first South-South Fair Trade experiment. In Europe, all Alter Eco products are FLO-CERT certified and bear the International Fairtrade Certification Mark. \n\nIn 2005, Alter Eco expanded into the United States and Canadian markets. Headquartered in San Francisco, Alter Eco's mission is to pioneer a full circle approach to eating, farming and doing business, and to inspire others to do the same. Headquartered in Melbourne, Alter Eco Australia is part of the larger Alter Eco US company. Alter Eco US acquired Alter Eco Australia in 2015.\n\nAlter Eco sells chocolate and chocolate-centric snack products. This includes a line of chocolate bars, chocolate truffles, and dark chocolate coconut clusters that are all fair trade and organic.\n\nAlter Eco has a full circle sustainability approach to their business. The four tenets of this approach are to 1. Choose Clean Ingredients, 2. Invest in Farmers, 3. Regenerate the Earth, and 4. Eliminate Waste.\n\n"}
{"id": "10964666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10964666", "title": "Anti-Chinese violence in Washington", "text": "Anti-Chinese violence in Washington\n\nThere were at least several incidents of anti-Chinese violence in Washington, a United States territory and later, a U.S. state, which occurred during the 19th century. Following the Rock Springs Massacre in Wyoming, a wave of anti-Chinese riots and incidents occurred in Washington in September 1885. There were riots and mob actions in Issaquah (then known as Squak), Seattle and Tacoma which resulted in at least four people being killed and extensive property damage.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17017926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17017926", "title": "Armenians in China", "text": "Armenians in China\n\nThere are about 800-1000 Armenians currently living in Mainland China and Hong Kong.\n\nThe Armenian community of Hong Kong and China, commonly referred to as ChinaHay, regularly organizes events across China.\n\nWhilst the current community is relatively small, Armenians have held historical presence in China for many centuries.\n\nArmenian merchants traveled and lived in China long before the twentieth century. Hethum I, ruler of Cilicia, traveled to the Mongol court in Karakorum in 1254. Alans and Armenians were in China during the Yuan dynasty, converted to Catholicism at the turn of the 14th century by John of Montecorvino. In Quanzhou a church belonging to the Franciscans received a donation from an Armenian woman in Medieval China. In 1318, Quanzhou's bishop, Peregrine of Castello, reported an Armenian woman gave the Franciscans a church and house. Armenians followed the Franciscan Catholic Latin Rite in Quanzhou. \n\nFrom the 17th to 19th centuries, some Armenian merchants established communities and ran successful businesses in Guangzhou and Hong Kong and there was even a small Armenian community in Tibet.\n\nDuring World War I, Armenians who fled from the Ottoman Empire to escape massive genocide led by Turkish troops against Armenian civilians, were officially accepted in China. China agreed to allow them to stay and provided accommodation, food and churches. After the Turkish surrender, most Armenians chose to remain in China, due to the continuing crisis in the Caucasus.\n\nIn World War II, the Armenians joined the Chinese and Koreans, and later, the Americans and British forces, against Japanese invasion. Most Armenians followed Chiang Kai-shek's Nationalist Revolutionary Army, or joined the Eighth Route Army of the Communists, and resisted Japanese forces in Shanghai, Beiping, and other Chinese provinces. The Armenians lost a total 5,000 men.\n\nSince all religions were targeted by the Cultural Revolution, many of churches and houses were destroyed, and most Armenians fled to Soviet Union's Central Asia or India. The massive cultural revolution had decreased the number of Armenians in China down to less than 1000.\n\nA limited number of Armenians settled in Manchuria during the construction of the Chinese Eastern Railway (KVZHD), undertaken by Imperial Russia in 1898. Their main settlement was in Harbin.\n\nAfter the Russo-Japanese War the number of Armenians increased, which necessitated the creation of an Armenian National Organization for the purpose of helping their needy countrymen and the preservation of their national heritage.\n\nThe Armenian National Organization was headed by the Board of Directors, whose president for many years was Dr. C. G. Migdisov, along with Mr. Ter-Ovakimov, an engineer with the KVZHD and Nr. Melik-Ogandjanov, an attorney.\n\nThe Armenian National Organization was founded in 1917. Its statute was approved by the local authorities in 1919. By 1923, they succeeded in building their own church and adjacent to it a social hall located on Sadovaya Street. Because most of the members of the Armenian colony lived in Harbin and had the only Armenian church in China, with residential quarters for their priest, Fr. Yeghishe Rostomiants, the spiritual leader of all Armenians in Manchuria, China and Japan, Harbin became the center of Armenians in China.\n\nOne of the main tasks of the Armenian Organization was to solve the problems of assistance to the needy members, such as the elderly, the poor, the orphans and generally all those who needed one or another kind of help in co-operation with Ladies Aid Group. The Board organized social events, staged national and literary plays, which was performed by the youth group in Armenian. On the national and religious holidays, tea parties were also organized. Classes to study Armenian language and literature also were held. The theatrical plays were performed at the prestigious Commercial Club and the Tchurin Club, where “Anahit” drama and Azerbaijani opera “Arshin-Mal-Alan “musical were performed, featuring the lead-singer, Karine Psakian.\n\nUntil 1918, the city of Harbin had an Armenian House of Prayer in the district of Noviy Gored.\nIn 1918, the KVZHD (Chinese Eastern Railroad) granted the Armenian Colony a piece of property on 18, Sadovaya Street, corner of Liaoyang Street, where they began to build the Far-Eastern Armeno-Gregorian Church, which took several years to complete. The name “Far-Eastern” derived from the fact that Rev. Fr. Yeghishe Rostomiants and his family emigrated to Harbin from Vladivostok, where evidently his church was closed. The church in Harbin began officially to function in the 1920s. In 1925, the Chinese Authorities registered it as the Armeno-Grigorian Church of Harbin. The church was erected in memory of St. Gregory the Illuminator.\n\nIn 1932, Fr. Yeghishe Rostomiants died, leaving the church without a pastor and for several years thereafter the church and the premises were rented to the members of the Lutheran Congregation, who later built their own church. In 1937, thanks to the initiative and efforts of Mr. Ter-Ovakimov, President of the Armenian Organization, a priest was brought from Jerusalem - Rev. Fr. Assoghig Ghazarian. He had been educated in the monastery, after he was orphaned during the Armenian Genocide. At the time of his arrival in Harbin, he was only 27 years old. He was well-educated and spoke five languages. The Armenian Colony, numbering at the time about 350-400 people, felt very fortunate once again to have a pastor.\n\nDuring the period of 1938-1950, Rev. Fr. Ghazarian, a building adjacent to the church was enlarged and renovated, thanks to the financial backing of large contributors and businessmen.\nIn 1950, Rt. Rev. Fr. Assoghig Ghazarian, who during World War II ended up in the concentration camp for British and American citizens in the city of Mukden returned to Jerusalem and the Armenian Church once again remained without a pastor.\n\nSubsequently, during the following years, due to the mass-exodus of Armenians from Harbin, their colony dwindled down to a mere 40-50 people. In 1959, the building of the Armenian Church changed hands and became the property of the Chinese Government, which in turn used it for a textile factory. In August 1966, during the Cultural Revolution, all churches in Harbin were demolished and all the treasures of the Armenian Church including icons and elaborate vestments were destroyed.\n\nThere is also much Armenian history in Shanghai. The Armenian Relief Society had a chapter in Shanghai as early as 1920.\n\nIt was the houses that were initially set out by the Armenian Relief Society that eventually became the Armenian Club of Shanghai. Its purpose was twofold: first, it helped refugees get settled in their new surroundings, but it then served as a meeting place for like-minded people to gather and swap stories.\n\nFollowing the Communist takeover in 1949, most of the Armenians left China (mainly for San Francisco) and the community ended up being only 50 person strong. There is today an active chapter in Shanghai of the Armenian community of China.\n\nThere has been an Armenian community of various sizes in Hong Kong since the 19th century and many notable Armenians have left their mark, including Sir Paul Catchik Chater. For most of the second half of the 20th century, Hong Kong was a natural trading hub for many Armenians from all around the world and a small community was always present.\n\nIn November 2013, the community opened the Jack & Julie Maxian Hong Kong Armenian Centre with more than 100 distinguished attendees including his Holiness Karekin II present for the opening ceremony. The community regularly organizes events at the centre.\n\n\n\nThere is a very active Armenian community in China today, commonly referred to as ChinaHay, composed of Armenians from all around the world. There are currently around 500 individuals living mainly across the cities of Beijing, Shanghai, Nanjing, Guangzhou, Shenzhen and Hong Kong. \n\nThe community achieved important milestones in recent years with its formal incorporation, electing its first executive committee headed by President Henri Arslanian and with the opening of the Jack and Julie Maxian Hong Kong Armenian Centre in Hong Kong in November 2013. The community celebrated the first Armenian Mass in Mainland China in decades, launched a fellowship with the Calouste Gulbenkian Foundation to research old Armenian history in China, participated in the 1st Pan-Asian Armenian Gathering as well as offered Armenian classes across China and Asia in collaboration with the Armenian Virtual College.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14609150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14609150", "title": "Asian Peruvians", "text": "Asian Peruvians\n\nAsian Peruvians, primarily Chinese and Japanese, constitute some 5-7% of Peru's population, which in proportion to the overall population is one of the largest of any Latin American nation.\n\nPeru has the second largest population of Japanese people in Latin America after Brazil and the largest population of Chinese people in Latin America.\n\nAsian slaves, shipped from the Spanish Philippines to Acapulco (see Manila-Acapulco galleons), were all referred to as \"Chino\" meaning Chinese. In reality they were of diverse origins, including Japanese, Malays, Filipinos, Javanese, Timorese, and people from modern day Bangladesh, India, Sri Lanka, Makassar, Tidore, Terenate, and China. Filipinos made up most of their population. People from this diverse community of Asians in Mexico were called \"los indios chinos\" by the Spanish. Most of these slaves were male and were obtained from Portuguese slave traders who obtained them from Portuguese colonial possessions and outposts of the Estado da India, which included parts of India, Bengal, Malacca, Indonesia, Nagasaki in Japan, and Macau. Spain received some of these Chino slaves from Mexico, where owning a Chino slave was a sign of high status. 16th century records of three Japanese slaves, Gaspar Fernandes, Miguel and Ventura, who ended up in Mexico showed that they were purchased by Portuguese slave traders in Japan and brought to Manila from where they were shipped to Mexico by their owner Perez. Some of these Asian slaves were also brought to Lima, where it was recorded that in 1613 there was a small community of Asians made out of Chinese, Japanese, Filipinos, Malays, Cambodians and others.\n\nFilipinos form the oldest Asian ethnic group in Peru and the rest of Latin-America. The bulk of Filipinos served as mariners in the transpacific Manila Galleon trade, which had Lima, Peru as a secondary port to Acapulco, Mexico. Their total number is unknown due to high levels of assimilation. Both Filipinos and \"native\" Peruvians practice Catholicism and have a Hispanic culture and Spanish names. These factors facilitate assimilation.\n\nHistoric communities inhabited by people of Chinese descent are found throughout the Peruvian upper Amazon, including cities such as Yurimaguas, Nauta, Iquitos and the north central coast (Lambayeque and Trujillo). In contrast to the Japanese community in Peru, the Chinese appear to have intermarried much more since they came to work in the rice fields during the Viceroyalty and to replace the African slaves, during the abolition of slavery itself.\n\nJapanese immigrants arrived from Okinawa; but also from Gifu, Hiroshima, Kanagawa and Osaka prefectures. Many arrived as farmers or to work in the fields, but after their respective contracts were completed, settled in the cities. In the period before World War II, the Japanese community in Peru was largely run by \"Issei\" immigrants born in Japan. \"Those of the second generation\", (the \"Nisei\"), \"were almost inevitably excluded from community decision-making.\"\n\nThe first Asian-Peruvian president, Alberto Fujimori, was elected in 1990, prevailing over novelist Mario Vargas Llosa.\n\nAccording to the statistics of South Korea's Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, Koreans in Peru formed Latin America's seventh-largest Korean diaspora community at 1,774 people .\n\nIndians in Peru form a tiny minority in the country. The first immigrants from India to have arrived in Peru were businessmen who had gone there in the early 1960s. Later on, the community grew in number marginally until the early 1980s, after which many of its members left due to the severe local economic crises and the prevailing terrorism.\n\nAn estimated 10,000 Palestinians live in Peru alone, many of these families who arrived after the first Israel wars in 1948-49 had re-established and bettered themselves in Peru when it comes to socio-economic status.\n"}
{"id": "6980713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6980713", "title": "Bai language", "text": "Bai language\n\nThe Bai language (Bai: ; ) is a language spoken in China, primarily in Yunnan province, by the Bai people. The language has over a million speakers and is divided into three or four main dialects. Bai syllables are always open, with a rich set of vowels and eight tones. The tones are divided into two groups with modal and non-modal (tense, harsh or breathy) phonation. There is a small amount of traditional literature written with Chinese characters, Bowen (), as well as a number of recent publications printed with a recently standardized system of romanisation using the Latin alphabet.\n\nThe origins of Bai have been obscured by intensive Chinese influence of an extended period. Different scholars have proposed that it is an early offshoot or sister language of Chinese, part of the Loloish branch or a separate group within the Sino-Tibetan family.\n\nXu and Zhao (1984) divided Bai into three dialects, which may actually be distinct languages: Jianchuan (Central), Dali (Southern), and Bijiang (Northern). Bijiang County has since been renamed as Lushui County. Jianchuan and Dali are closely related, and speakers are reported to be able to understand one another after living together for a month.\n\nThe more divergent Northern dialects are spoken by about 15,000 Laemae (\"\", Lemei, Lama), a clan numbering about 50,000 people who are partly submerged within the Lisu.\nThey are now designated as two languages by ISO 639-3:\n\nWang Feng (2012) provides the following classification for 9 Bai dialects:\n\n\nWang (2012) also documents a Bai dialect in Xicun, Dacun Village, Shalang Township, Kunming City (昆明市沙朗乡大村西村).\n\nThe affiliation of Bai is obscured by over two millennia of influence from varieties of Chinese, leaving most of its lexicon related to Chinese etyma of various periods.\nTo determine its origin, researchers must first identify and remove from consideration the various layers of loanwords, and then examine the residue.\nIn his survey of the field, Wang notes that early work was hampered by a lack of data on Bai and uncertainties in the reconstruction of early forms of Chinese.\nRecent authors have suggested that Bai is an early offshoot from Chinese, a sister language to Chinese, or more distantly related (though usually still Sino-Tibetan).\n\nThere are different tonal correspondences in the various layers.\nMany words can be identified as later Chinese loans because they display Chinese sound changes from the last two millennia:\nSome of these changes date back to the first centuries AD.\n\nThe oldest layer of Bai vocabulary with Chinese cognates, of which Wang lists some 250 words, includes common Bai words that were also common in Classical Chinese, but are not used in modern varieties of Chinese.\nIts features have been compared with current ideas on Old Chinese phonology:\nSergei Starostin suggests that these facts indicate a split from mainstream Chinese around the 2nd century BC, corresponding to the Western Han period.\nWang argues that a few of the correspondences between his reconstructed Proto-Bai and Old Chinese cannot be explained by the Old Chinese forms, and that Chinese and Bai therefore form a Sino-Bai group.\nHowever, Gong suggests that at least some of these cases can be accounted for by refining the Proto-Bai reconstruction to take account of complementary distribution within Bai.\n\nStarostin and Zhengzhang Shangfang have separately argued that the oldest Chinese layer accounts for all but an insignificant residue of Bai vocabulary, and that Bai is therefore an early branch of Chinese.\n\nOn the other hand, Lee and Sagart (1998) argued that the various layers of Chinese vocabulary are loans, and that when they are removed, a significant non-Chinese residue remains, including 15 entries from the 100-word Swadesh list of basic vocabulary. They suggest that this residue shows similarities with Proto-Loloish.\nJames Matisoff (2001) argued that the comparison with Loloish is less persuasive when considering other Bai varieties than the Jianchuan dialect used by Lee and Sagart, and that it is safer to consider Bai as an independent branch of Sino-Tibetan, though perhaps close to the neighbouring Loloish.\nLee and Sagart (2008) refined their analysis, presenting the residue as a non-Chinese form of Sino-Tibetan, though not necessarily Loloish. They also note that this residue includes the Bai vocabulary relating to pig rearing and rice agriculture.\n\nLee and Sagart's analysis has been further discussed by List (2009).\nGong (2015) suggests that the residual layer may be Qiangic, pointing out that the Bai, like the Qiang, call themselves \"white\", whereas the Lolo use \"black\".\n\nThe Jianchuan dialect has the following consonants, all of which are restricted to syllable-initial position:\nThe Gongxing and Tuolou dialects retain an older 3-way distinction for stop and affricate initials between voiceless unaspirated, voiceless aspirated and voiced. In the core eastern group, including the standard form of Dali, the voiced initials have become voiceless unaspirated, while other dialects show partial loss of voicing, conditioned by tone in different ways.\n\nJianchuan finals comprise:\nAll but , and have contrasting nasalized variants.\nDali Bai lacks nasal vowels.\nSome other varieties retain nasal codas instead of nasalization, though only the Gongxing and Tuolou dialects have a contrast between and .\n\nJianchuan has eight tones, divided between those with modal and non-modal phonation.\nSome of the western varieties have fewer tones.\n\nBai has a basic syntactic order of subject–verb–object (SVO). However, SOV word order can be found in interrogative and negative sentences.\n\nThe old Bai script used modified Chinese characters, but its use was limited.\nA new script based on the Latin alphabet was designed in 1958, based on the speech of the urban centre of Xiaguan, even though it was not a typical Southern dialect.\nThe idea of romanization was controversial among Bai elites, and the system saw little use.\nIn a renewed attempt in 1982, language planners used the Jianchuan dialect as a base, because it represented an area with a significant population, almost all of whom spoke Bai.\nThe new script was popular in the Jianchuan area, but was rejected in the more economically advanced area of Dali, which also had the largest number of speakers, albeit living alongside a large number of speakers of Chinese.\nThe script was revised extensively in 1993 to define two variants, representing Jianchuan and Dali respectively, and has since been more widely used.\n\nThe retroflex initials \"zh\", \"ch\", \"sh\" and \"r\" are used only in recent loanwords from Standard Chinese or for other Bai varieties.\n\nThe 1993 revision introduced variants \"ai\"/\"er\" etc, with the former to be used for Jianchuan Bai and the latter for Dali Bai.\nIn Jianchuan, all vowels but \"ao\", \"iao\", \"uo\", \"ou\" and \"iou\" have nasalized counterparts, denoted by a suffixed \"n\".\nDali Bai lacks nasalized vowels.\n\nSuffixed letters indicate tone contours and modal or non-modal phonation.\nThis was the most radical aspect of the 1993 revision:\nWorks cited\n\n"}
{"id": "15994014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15994014", "title": "Bana language", "text": "Bana language\n\nBana is an Afro-Asiatic language spoken in northern Cameroon. Dialects include Gamboura and Gili.\n\nThe vowels of Bana are /ɨ ə ɛ/, which can occur with high, falling, low, or rising tone.\n"}
{"id": "56450373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56450373", "title": "Centre for Canadian Historical Horticultural Studies", "text": "Centre for Canadian Historical Horticultural Studies\n\nThe Centre for Canadian Historical Horticultural Studies (CCHHS) includes archives and a program of scholarly study within Royal Botanical Gardens, Ontario (Hamilton, Ontario and Burlington, Ontario). It focuses on collecting and preserving literature, documents, and artifacts relevant to the history of horticulture in Canada.\n\nRoyal Botanical Gardens began to accumulate literature on Canadian horticulture in the 1960s. In 1979 the CCHHS was formally established as a collaboration between Royal Botanical Gardens and the Dunington-Grubb Foundation. Ina Vrugtman, Royal Botanical Gardens' librarian, coordinated the work of the Centre until her retirement in 1995.\n\nIn 1984 the Centre co-sponsored the publication of Edwinna von Baeyer's book, \"Rhetoric and Roses: A History of Canadian Gardening\". The Centre published \"Canadian Horticultural History, An Interdisciplinary Journal\" as eight issues in three volumes between 1985 and 1995. The journal covered topics on early Canadian botany, landscape architecture, and plant hybridisation.\n\nDue to changes at Royal Botanical Gardens the scholarly program of the Centre was inactive for several years, although the archival collections continued to grow throughout this period.\n\nThe Centre also co-sponsored a 2017 workshop at York University exploring the role women played in botany and horticulture in nineteenth-century Canada called, Women, Men, and Plants in 19th-Century Canada: New Resources, New Perspectives.\n\nThe CCHHS's collection encompasses resources relating to horticultural plants and their development and uses in Canada. Resources outlining the history of Canadian landscape design also form an important part of the collection. Some of these materials give a more technical account of Canadian horticulture, while others offer a larger view of social changes in Canadian society.\n\nSpecial Collections:\n\nArchival Fonds and Collections:\n\n\nRoyal Botanical Gardens is a member of the Archives Association of Ontario\n\n"}
{"id": "16824033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16824033", "title": "Controversies related to chronic fatigue syndrome", "text": "Controversies related to chronic fatigue syndrome\n\nChronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) is an illness with a long history of controversy. For years, many professionals within the medical community did not recognize CFS as a true condition, nor was there agreement on its prevalence. There has been much disagreement over the pathophysiology of chronic fatigue syndrome, how it should be diagnosed, and how to treat it.\n\nThe diagnosis is controversial, and its etiology is still not fully understood. Alternative names to describe the condition(s) have been used over time throughout the world. Patient groups have criticized the name \"chronic fatigue syndrome,\" saying it trivializes the illness.\n\nA major divide still exists as to whether funding should be directed towards biomedical or psychological research.\n\nA 2007 article in \"The New York Times\" reported that patients prefer the terms \"myalgic encephalomyelitis\" or \"myalgic encephalopathy\" to \"chronic fatigue syndrome\". These patients believed the term \"fatigue\" trivializes the illness and discourages research into potential treatments.\n\nAccording to a survey of medical trainees at a school in the United States, a condition described as \"chronic fatigue syndrome\" may be considered less serious than a condition described as \"myalgic encephalopathy\". In 2004, a paper reported that the majority of the CFS patients questioned in a survey wanted the name changed from chronic fatigue syndrome.\n\nHistorically, many professionals within the medical community were unfamiliar with CFS, or they did not recognize it as a real condition, and disagreed on its prevalence or seriousness. A 2005 study in the UK surveyed 811 general practitioners' attitudes and knowledge of CFS. 72% accepted CFS as a recognizable clinical entity, but 48% did not feel confident diagnosing it, and 41% did not feel confident in treatment. The CFS Advisory Committee (Part of the US Department of Health) in 2007 found that a survey of 1,500 US primary care providers showed that 90 percent believed CFS can impair quality of life, 20 percent strongly or somewhat agreed that CFS is only in the patient’s head, and 70 percent said not enough information is available to diagnose CFS. A 2008 Norwegian study that explored barriers quality care from experiences by patients suffering from chronic fatigue syndrome concluded, \"current medical skepticism and ignorance regarding CFS shapes the context of medical care and the illness experiences of CFS patients, who may feel they neither get a proper assessment nor management.\"\n\nEducation of care providers is a proposed solution. One study conducted a relatively brief seminar presenting factual information on CFS to a cohort of fourth year medical students. The authors concluded the information provided was associated with a more favorable attitude toward CFS. In the UK, the 2002 Chief Medical Officer's report stated that all doctors should consider CFS as a serious chronic illness and treat patients accordingly. In 2006, the CDC launched a national program to educate the American public and health care professionals about CFS.\n\nThere has been much disagreement over proposed cause(s), diagnosis, and treatment of the illness. Contrasting viewpoints have been expressed by different CFS researchers. One influential 1993 Lancet paper argued that CFS was a form of neurasthenia to be classified as a psychiatric condition, and a subsequent 1998 paper concluded that behavioral, cognitive, and affective factors all played a role in perpetuating fatigue. More recently, a 2005 population-based study, which used a similar methodology to the earlier 1998 study, found important differences between CFS and psychiatrically explained chronic fatigue which could affect the development of therapy and explanatory models. They concluded that the 1998 model adequately represented chronic fatigue secondary to psychiatric conditions, but not CFS.\n\nContested causation may have serious negative effects on healthcare for individuals, as it may erode patient-provider trust, test the provider's self-assurance and capacity to share power with the patient, and raise problematic issues of reparation, compensation and blame.\n\nPACE was a large trial investigating the efficacy and safety of four treatments adjunctive to specialist medical care (SMC): cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT), graded exercise therapy (GET), and adaptive pacing therapy (APT). The results were published in February 2011 and concluded that CBT and GET were each \"moderately\" effective compared to SMC alone, while APT was not found to be effective when added to SMC.\n\nThe trial generated considerable adverse criticism. Letters to the editor critiqued the definitions of secondary outcomes, questioned post-hoc protocol changes, and expressed concern over generalisability of the results. Patient groups and the IACFS/ME (an organization of researchers and health care professionals interested in CFS) criticized the trial for over-simplified and exaggerated conclusions, for using a flawed psychosocial illness model that ignores biological evidence, for testing a non-representative version of pacing, and because the results seriously conflict with their member surveys which show that pacing is effective and CBT or GET can cause deterioration in many patients who use the treatments. One notable researcher submitted a 442-page letter to the Medical Research Council outlining his criticisms of the trial, and a shorter 43-page complaint to the \"Lancet\". The MRC and the \"Lancet\" rejected the submissions. A \"Lancet\" editorial responded to the adverse criticism by suggesting that some critics could be part of \"an active campaign to discredit the research.\"\n\nMore recent criticisms of the trial have come from the scientific community. For example, biostatistician Bruce Levin of Columbia University described the study as \"the height of clinical trial amateurism,\" and Ronald Davis of Stanford University wrote, “I’m shocked that the Lancet published it…The PACE study has so many flaws and there are so many questions you’d want to ask about it that I don’t understand how it got through any kind of peer review.”. In an analysis of the study's design, the mathematician Professor Rebecca Goldin wrote that \"There were problems with the study on almost all levels... the flaws in this design were enough to doom its results from the start.\" Professor Jonathan Edwards of University College London (UCL) has written that the PACE trial \"is an unblinded trial with subjective outcome measures. That makes it a non-starter in the eyes of any physician or clinical pharmacologist familiar with problems of systematic bias in trial execution.\"\n\nA 2006 investigation by a group from the Parliament of the United Kingdom found there was not enough support in the UK for CFS patients in terms of access to government benefits and health care. Sufferers describe the struggle for healthcare and legitimacy due to what they consider to be bureaucratic denial of the condition because of its lack of a known etiology. Institutions maintain the exclusion of patient support by rhetorical arguments of the open-endedness of science to delay new findings of fact. This has resulted in an expensive and prolonged conflict for all involved.\n\nIn 1998 it became known almost 13 million dollars for CFS research had been redirected or improperly accounted for by the United States CDC. The agency stated the need to respond to other public health emergencies. The director of a U.S. national patient advocacy group charged the CDC had a bias against studying the disease.\n\nEpidemic cases of benign myalgic encephalomyelitis were called mass hysteria by psychiatrists McEvedy and Beard in 1970, provoking criticism in letters to the editor of the \"British Medical Journal\" by attending physicians, researchers, and nurses who fell ill. The psychiatrists were criticized for not investigating the patients they described, and their conclusions have been refuted. In 1978 a symposium held at the Royal Society of Medicine (RSM) concluded that \"epidemic myalgic encephalomyelitis\" was a distinct disease entity.\n\nHowever, the idea that CFS may be culturally mediated persisted in some quarters. In her 1997 book \"Hystories: Hysterical Epidemics and Modern Culture,\" literary critic and feminist Elaine Showalter argues that chronic fatigue syndrome is a \"hysterical narrative,\" a modern manifestation of hysteria, a self-perpetuating \"cultural symptom of anxiety and stress\" historically assigned to women.\n\nA 2006 report by the UK Parliamentary Group on Scientific Research into Myalgic Encephalomyelitis stated that: \"CFS/ME is defined as a psychosocial illness by the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) and medical insurance companies. Therefore, claimants are not entitled to the higher level of benefit payments. We recognise that if CFS/ME remains as one illness and/or both remain defined as psychosocial then it would be in the financial interest of both the DWP and the medical insurance companies.\" The Group called for investigation of what they called, \"numerous cases where advisors to the DWP have also had consultancy roles in medical insurance companies. Particularly the Company UNUMProvident. Given the vested interest private medical insurance companies have in ensuring CFS/ME remain classified as a psychosocial illness there is blatant conflict of interest here.\" The Secretary of State for Work and Pensions responded that \"Entitlement to Disability Living Allowance depends on the effects that severe physical or mental disability has on a person's need for personal care and/or their ability to walk, and not on particular disabilities or diagnoses. The\nbenefit is available to people with myalgic encephalomyelitis (which can have a physical basis or a psychological basis, or can be due to a combination of factors) on exactly the same terms as other severely disabled people, and they can qualify for it provided that they meet the usual entitlement conditions.\"\n\nResearchers who advocate classifying CFS as a psychosocial illness have been criticized by those who believe that their work draws attention and funding away from research into biomedical treatments. In 2012, several prominent UK researchers adopting the psychosocial perspective reported to the press that they had been verbally abused by patients, and one reported receiving death threats.\n"}
{"id": "9674778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9674778", "title": "Cosmopolitan Club of Philadelphia", "text": "Cosmopolitan Club of Philadelphia\n\nThe Cosmopolitan Club of Philadelphia is a private social club in Philadelphia. It was founded in June 1928 by a group of women from Philadelphia and its surroundings. In January 1930, the members had purchased the lot at 1616 Latimer Street, and oversaw the construction of an Art Deco building.\n\nThe members of the Cosmopolitan Club of Philadelphia are all women, and they represent a wide array of ages, races, cultures, interests, skills, professions and affiliations.\n\nThey work and volunteer in the community. Thirty-eight of the Club's past and present members have been named Distinguished Daughters of Pennsylvania.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46313160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46313160", "title": "Crime in Guyana", "text": "Crime in Guyana\n\nCrime in Guyana is investigated by Guyana's police.\n\nIn 2012, Guyana had a murder rate of 17.0 per 100 000 population. There were a total of 135 murders in Guyana in 2012.\n\nDomestic violence is a problem in all regions of Guyana. Enforcement of the domestic violence laws is especially weak in the interior, where police do not have as strong a presence and courts meet only once a quarter.\n\nNGOs report a widespread perception that some police officers and magistrates could be bribed to make cases of domestic violence \"go away.\" The government also does not prosecute cases in which the alleged victim or victim's family agreed to drop the case in exchange for a monetary payment out of court. NGOs assert the need for a specialized Family Court.\n\nArmed robberies occur regularly, especially in businesses and shopping districts, especially in the capital Georgetown. Nationally, there were 512 robberies under arms during the period January to October 2012 (a 15% increase from 2011).\n\nIn Georgetown, high crime areas include Tiger Bay, Albouystown, Sophia, all of south Georgetown, Buxton and Agricola. Robberies are a daily occurrence in the Stabroek Market area. A number of assaults have taken place in the Botanic Gardens.\n"}
{"id": "56853129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56853129", "title": "Deutsch-Polnische Gesellschaft Bundesverband", "text": "Deutsch-Polnische Gesellschaft Bundesverband\n\nDeutsch-Polnische Gesellschaft Bundesverband (DPG, ) is a society of different regional associations which promote reconciliation and cultural exchange of Germany and Poland. It was founded in 1996, succeeding the Bundesverband deutsch-polnischer Gesellschaften, which was founded in 1987. One of the goals is the integration of Poland in die European Union. The organization is based in Berlin.\n\nThe association publishes a quarterly bilingual magazine, \"\".\n\nBeginning in 2005, the association has awarded an annually a prize, also called DIALOG, to persons and organisations that are \"a model for the dielogue of nations and cultures in Europe, and the improvement of German-Polish relations\" (\"... in vorbildlicher Art und Weise für den Dialog der Völker und Kulturen in Europa sowie die Vertiefung der deutsch-polnischen Beziehungen engagieren\").\n\nRecipients have included:\n"}
{"id": "33229280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33229280", "title": "Digaro Mishmi language", "text": "Digaro Mishmi language\n\nDigaro, also Taraon, Tawra, or Darang, is a Digarish language of northeastern Arunachal Pradesh, India and Zayü County, Tibet, China.\n\nAccording to Jiang, et al. (2013:2), their autonym is ' or ', and alternatively ' (Deng 登, 僜) in China. The Kaman (Miju) call them ', the Idu call them \"\", and the Assamese call them \"Digaro Mishmi\".\n\nIn Arunachal Pradesh, India, Digaro Mishmi is spoken in Hayuliang, Changlagam, and Goiliang circles in Lohit district (\"Ethnologue\"). It is also spoken in Dibang Valley district and Assam.\n\nJiang, et al. (2013:2) reports that in Zayü County, Tibet, Taraon is spoken in the following villages.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38169026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38169026", "title": "Esperanto in Malaysia", "text": "Esperanto in Malaysia\n\nEsperanto has a small presence in Malaysia although no Esperanto associations or clubs are there.\n\nA school club operated at the San Min Chinese Independent School, which is in Teluk Intan, Perak, but was discontinued in 2014.\n\nThe Tsung Wah Old Students' Association was a CEFR 2012 Worldwide Written test center in Kuala Kangsar, Perak.\n\nJCI, Teluk Intan branch conducted an elementary course in March, 2012.\n\nAik Keow Chinese Primary School in Teluk Air Tawar, Seberang Prai, Penang held a 3-hour introductory course for 20 pupils during the school holidays in November, 2012.\n\nAik Keow Ex-pupils' Association in Teluk Air Tawar, Seberang Prai, Penang conducted a 4-hour Introductory course for the members as well as non members in December, 2012\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55808059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55808059", "title": "Ethiopians in Germany", "text": "Ethiopians in Germany\n\nEthiopians in Germany are citizens and residents of Germany who are of Ethiopian descent. According to the Federal Statistical Office of Germany, as of 2016, there are a total 18,425 Ethiopia-born immigrants living in Germany. Of those, 3,605 individuals were granted asylum status.\n\n"}
{"id": "10324799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10324799", "title": "Fernando Alvarado Tezozómoc", "text": "Fernando Alvarado Tezozómoc\n\nHernando (de) Alvarado Tezozómoc\"' was a colonial Nahua noble. A son of Diego de Alvarado Huanitzin (governor of Tenochtitlan) and Francisca de Moctezuma (a daughter of Moctezuma II), Tezozómoc worked as an interpreter for the Real Audiencia. Today he is known for the \"Crónica Mexicayotl\", a Nahuatl-language history.\n\nFernando de Alvarado Tezozomoc was also a chronicler of some note, pertaining to a group of mestizo chroniclers with Fernando de Alva Cortés Ixtlilxóchitl, Diego Muñoz Camargo and Chimalpahin.\n\nA learned Nahua.\nA noble man, descendent of the ruling class. A member of the Calmecac.\n"}
{"id": "36812325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36812325", "title": "Gen Silent", "text": "Gen Silent\n\nGen Silent is a 2010 documentary film, directed and produced by Stu Maddux. The documentary follows the lives of six LGBT seniors living in the Boston area who must choose if they will hide their sexuality in order to survive in the long-term health care system. It has been screened at numerous colleges and universities as well as in front of government agencies and healthcare organizations. It premiered at the Boston LGBT Film Festival and has won numerous awards at others.\n\nThe title of the film is a reference to the generations of older LGBT people who remain in the closet or re enter the closet out of concern for their safety or quality of life. As a result of the documentary, the term Gen Silent has increased in use as a way to refer to this group.\n\n\"Gen Silent\" was filmed in the Boston area over a one-year period. During that time, director Stu Maddux followed six LGBT seniors through their decision to either stay open about their sexuality or hide it so that they can survive in the long-term health care system. In the documentary a gay man named Lawrence Johnson searches for a nursing home where he and his partner can be open about their relationship while still receiving quality care. It also follows a transgender senior by the name of KrysAnne. She searches for people to care for her because she is estranged from her family. The story of an LGBT couple named Sheri and Lois is told, including how they spent their lives fighting for LGBT rights. While Sheri states that she refuses to hide her sexuality, Lois states that she will if that is what it would take to protect her in the health care system. Mel and his partner are the final couple followed in the documentary. Mel’s partner gets sick and he finds care from a welcoming agency where he feels comfortable and safe to speak openly for the first time about his sexuality and their thirty-nine year relationship together.\n\n\"Gen Silent\" premiered at the Boston LGBT Film Festival in 2010. It was also screened at numerous other film festivals including the Frameline Film Festival, the Provincetown International Film Festival, the New York Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, & Transgender Film Festival, the Melbourne Queer Film Festival and the North Carolina Gay & Lesbian Film Festival.\n\nIt was also screened for health care staff at Duke University Medical Center, to lawmakers at the Massachusetts House of Representatives, and the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor. Harvard and Yale Universities have also hosted screenings of the film.\n\n\"Gen Silent\" has won multiple awards including the \"Audience Choice Best Documentary\" at the Frameline Film Festival in 2011 and the \"Audience Choice Best Documentary\" at the Image+Nation Montreal International LGBT Film Festival.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6503513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6503513", "title": "Ghazi Salahuddin", "text": "Ghazi Salahuddin\n\nGhazi Salahuddin (Urdu: غازى صلاالدين), is a Pakistani journalist, writer, literary figure, and the scholar of political science. He has written various analytical columns, both in Urdu and English, in the \"News International\", \"Jang\" and has often appeared in Geo Television for independent commentary on Pakistan's current affairs. He studied and graduated from the Karachi University. In addition, he served as the President of the Karachi Press Club in 2006.\n\nGhazi Salahud Din is also squadron commander of the most elite squadron of PAF number 5 squadron. They call them Falcons. This was the first squadron raised by PAF by the hands of Quaid on the very next day Pakistan was created. The squadron is presently equipped with F-16 block 52 aircraft.\n\n"}
{"id": "27802606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27802606", "title": "Global public policy networks", "text": "Global public policy networks\n\nGlobal public policy networks (GPPNs) are what may be considered a new actor in the stage of world affairs. A non-state entity in that they are not states, and not necessarily incorporated in the legal sense, they may take on an international role, even without the formal status of an international or multilateral organization/institution. These networks are comprised by various actors from civil society, governments, government agencies, industry, industry groups, and perhaps multilateral organizations/institutions. Their activities cover the range of steps in the policy process, beyond to policy proposals or lobbying, including agenda setting, policy formulation, negotiation, rule making, coordination, implementation, and evaluation. Their expertise can often play an important role in global debates and norm establishment.\n\nThe basis for scholarship on GPPNs can be seen to be set by Robert Keohane and Joseph Nye, as well as Anne-Marie Slaughter in the United States. While their status and role in the development of norms in the transnational sphere can be understood through work on \"hard\" and \"soft\" law including Kenneth W. Abbott, and Jon Birger Skjærseth. Further scholarship on their role in global governance includes work by Diane Stone.\n\nExamples of GPPNs include: The World Commission on Dams, the International Competition Network, the Global Water Partnership, the Medicines for Malaria Venture (which has since become a foundation), the Internet & Jurisdiction Policy Network, and REN21.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27719831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27719831", "title": "Granddad Bandit", "text": "Granddad Bandit\n\nThe Granddad Bandit is a serial bank robber, notable for both his age and proficiency at robbing banks. From 2008 to 2010, he robbed at least 21 banks in the Eastern and Central United States. He was nicknamed the \"Granddad Bandit\" because of his age, appearance, and manner of dress. He robs bank by handing a note demanding cash to the teller. He did not use a disguise during the robberies other than sometimes wearing a hat. He was wanted in 12 states and by the FBI. He surrendered peacefully on August 13, 2010 after a 6-hour standoff with police and FBI agents. He was positively identified as 52-year-old Michael Francis Mara. At 18, Mara was convicted of embezzlement, grand larceny and other charges. He also pretended to be a sheriff when he rented a car but never returned it. In 1985, he robbed a bank in California. He was sentenced to 25 years in prison on May 11, 2011. He should not be confused with the \"Grandpa Bandit\", a different man who robbed 7 banks in Oregon in late 2009, and has since been caught.\n\n"}
{"id": "3494959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3494959", "title": "Guane people", "text": "Guane people\n\nThe Guane were a South American people that lived mainly in the area of Santander and north of Boyacá, both departments of present-day central-Colombia. They were farmers cultivating cotton, pineapple and other crops, and skilled artisans working in cotton textiles. The Guane lived north of the Chicamocha River, around the Chicamocha Canyon in an area stretching from Vélez in the south to the capital of Santander; Bucaramanga in the north. Other sources state their territory did not extend so far north. Guane, a corregimiento of Barichara, Santander, is said to have been the capital of the Guane people.\n\nThe word \"guane\" in the Chibcha of the people means \"tree\" or \"lower part of a leaf\", or \"skirt\".\n\nThe Guane made their own weapons, including arrows and spears. They interchanged plants for the stewpot with the Chitarero on the east and the Muisca to the south of their territories. The mantle making of the Guanes was well known in pre-Columbian Colombia. Mantles made from cotton have been dated back to the 11th century AD. The Guane cultivated tobacco and made products of fique.\n\nLike the Maya and many other civilizations in the world, the Guane deliberately deformed the skulls of their children.\n\nIn 1586 there were still some Guane left but there were no further references found after that date; nevertheless, the local archives indicated that they did not disappear completely. They mixed heavily with the Spanish colonizers, as the Guane were said to have European traits and very light skin.\n\nLike the Muisca, U'wa and Lache, the Guane spoke a Chibchan language. They adored Bochica, the messenger god in the Muisca religion. The Guane traded with their neighbouring indigenous groups; Lache to the east, U'wa to the northeast, Muzo to the south and Muisca to the southeast.\n\nRock art produced by the Guane have been found around the Chicamocha Canyon and on the Mesa de los Santos, Santander.\n\nThe Guane people chewed coca combined with calcitic grains, using poporos.\n\nThe Guane inhabited the area of central and south Santander, around the Chicamocha Canyon and a small part of Boyacá.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56178239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56178239", "title": "Guohe language", "text": "Guohe language\n\nGuohe () is a Southern Loloish language of Yunnan, China. It is spoken in Dengqu Village 登去村, Majie Township 马街乡, Yuanjiang County 元阳县, Yunnan (Wang 2011). It is known as Guohong 郭宏 in Yuanyang County, Yunnan (\"Yuanyang County Gazetteer\" 1990:625).\n\nThe Guohe language is documented in Wang (2011).\n\n"}
{"id": "36674229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36674229", "title": "Gypsy Wildcat", "text": "Gypsy Wildcat\n\nGypsy Wildcat is a 1944 Technicolor adventure film directed by Roy William Neil starring Maria Montez, Jon Hall and Peter Coe. It was co-written by James M. Cain.\n\nA king's messenger (Jon Hall) protects a Gypsy dancer (Maria Montez) from a wicked baron who knows her secret.\n\nAfter the success of \"Arabian Nights\" Universal requested a series of films starring Montez, Hall and Sabu. It was followed by \"White Savage\" and \"Cobra Woman\". The studio then requested three more, \"Ali Baba and the Forty Thieves\", a gypsy tale, \"Zorya\", and a tale of the modernisation of Turkey.\n\nJames Hogan was signed to write and direct \"Zorya\" which became \"Gypsy Girl\" then \"Gypsy Wildcat\". He fell ill so he was replaced by Roy William Neill. James M Cain was hired to work on the dialogue.\n\nFilming started October 1943.\n\nThe role of Tonio was meant to be played by Turhan Bey. However he was loaned at the last minute to MGM to play a role in \"Dragon Seed\" and was replaced by Peter Coe. Coe was a former swimming champion, Acquacade performer and stage actor. He later claimed that he and Montez had an affair.\n\nNeill reportedly was one of Maria Montez's few directors to not fight with her.\n\n\"My other pictures were just corn\", said Montez. \"This one is more golden bantam. I'm tired of being a fairy tale princess all the time. In every picture I have royal blood. I told the studio I wanted to do something else. I thought everything was fixed when they put me in \"Gypsy Wildcat\". But do you know what happens at the end of that picture? I turn out to be a countess.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19308641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19308641", "title": "Hui'an maidens", "text": "Hui'an maidens\n\nHui'an maidens or Hui'an women () are a major Han Chinese subgroup that are a part of a distinct Han community residing in Hui'an County of Quanzhou, Fujian, China. They have a distinct dress and marital customs that have been the focus of both anthropologists and governmental censure.\n\nThe Hui'an are categorized as Han Chinese as they speak Sinitic languages, adopted Han culture, and practise Chinese religions but their origin traces back to the ancient Minyue people of more than two thousand years ago. The isolation on the eastern peninsula of Hui'an prevented Hui'an maidens from completely assimilating into the Han culture, so many of their distinctive customs and traditions still survive today. Other Baiyue peoples who continue to retain a cultural distinction from the Han despite adopting many of their practises and now speak a Sinitic language include the Tanka people and Pinghua.\n\nTypical Hui'an maidens wear short cyan jackets and skintight black hiphuggers which flare out at the legs and they cover their heads with colorful scarves and conical hats. The government describes them as having \"feudal heads, thrifty jackets, democratic bellies, and wasteful trousers\", part of a project to forcibly assimilate the Hui'an community since the early days of the People's Republic.\n\nHui'an maidens have very distinct customs regarding their marriage. Newlyweds are not allowed to stay together on their wedding night, so the groom stays in a friend's house. On the second day, the bride pays respects to the groom's family and gives gifts to the elders. On the third day, the groom's sister leads the bride to the communal well to draw two buckets of water. After five days of obeying various customs, she returns to her parents' home. The bride and groom are forbidden to live together or even talk to each other until the bride bears a child. Younger generations no longer practice these customs.\n\nThe majority of the Hui'an people have the same religious practices as other Han Chinese.\n\n"}
{"id": "24537342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24537342", "title": "Immigration to Switzerland", "text": "Immigration to Switzerland\n\nThere has been significant immigration to Switzerland since the 1980s.\nBy contrast, during the 19th century, emigration from Switzerland was more common, as Switzerland was economically a poor country where a large fraction of population survived on subsistence farming.\n\nThe largest immigrant groups in Switzerland are those from Italy, \nGermany, the Former Yugoslavia, Albania, Portugal and Turkey (Turks and Kurds). Between them, these six groups account for about 1.5 million people, 60% of the Swiss population with immigrant background, or close to 20% of total Swiss population.\n\nThe current federal law of December 16, 2005, on foreigners (the Foreign Nationals Act) came into force on January 1, 2008, replacing the Federal Act on the Residence and Establishment of Foreigners of 1931.\n\nSwitzerland and Australia, with about a quarter of their population born outside the country, are the two countries with the highest proportion of immigrants in the western world, although who counts as an immigrant varies from country to country, and even between agencies within countries. Some countries naturalise immigrants easily, while others make it much more difficult, which means that such comparisons ought to be treated with caution.\n\nSwitzerland also has the highest \"Potential Net Migration Index\" of any European country by a large margin, at +150% (followed by Sweden at +78%)\naccording to a 2010 Gallup study; this means that out of an estimated 700 millon potential migrants worldwide, about 12 million (150% of Swiss resident population) would name Switzerland as their most desired country of residence.\n\nIndustrialization and banking made Switzerland prosperous by the late 19th century and began to attract significant numbers of migrant workers.\nFree movement of population was established with neighbouring countries in the late 19th century, and as a consequence, there was an increase from 211,000 resident foreigners in 1880 (7.5% of total population) to 552,000 in 1910 (14.7% of total population).\n\nThere was net emigration of foreign residents during the World Wars era. The fraction of foreign residents fell to 10.4% by 1920, and to 5.1% by 1941. Immigration has picked up again after 1945. Beginning in the mid-1950s, immigration increased steeply, and the historical record of close to 15% foreigners prior to World War I was surpassed at some time during the 1960s.\n\nUntil the 1960s, the immigration policy remained largely liberal. In the 1960s, rapid economic growth in Switzerland led to a large increase in the number of foreign residents. Because of this, the Federal Council enacted a regulation to limit the number of foreigners in each company.\n\nIn 1970, this per-company limit was replaced with a general limit for all recently arrived foreigners who were gainfully employed. In the 1970s, the number of foreigners decreased because of a period of recession. The proportion of foreigners to the total population, after growing steadily until 1974 and peaking at 16.8%, went down to 14.1% in 1979.\n\nThe favorable economic climate of the 1980s brought a renewed demand for labour, which was filled by foreign workers. This led to an increase in the proportion of foreign permanent residents, from 14.8% in 1980 to 18.1% in 1990. Between 1991 and 1998, the Federal Council replaced the previous system of admission with a binary system that distinguished between member states of the EU/EFTA and all other countries, which largely remains in force. With this reform, the possibility of recruiting unskilled workers from non-EU/EFTA countries was abolished, with the exception of family reunification and asylum applications.\n\nIn 1996, the Federal Council established a commission on immigration (the Hug Commission) to establish a new policy on immigration. Based on its work, a second commission was established to draft a new law on immigration. In the 1990s, the proportion of foreigners continued to rise, from 18.1% to 20.9%.\n\nAn agreement on the free movement of people, part of a series of bilateral agreements with the European Union, was signed on 21 June 1999 and approved on 21 May 2000 with 67.2% of the vote. The agreement on free movement entered into force on 1 June 2002. On 24 September 2006, the new law on foreigners was approved with 68% of votes in favor. The law came into force on 1 January 2008. Switzerland is also a party to the Schengen and Dublin agreements. They were signed on 26 October 2004 and the collaboration actually began on 12 December 2008.\n\nIn 2000, foreign permanent residents accounted for 20.9% of the population. In 2011, the percentage rose to 22.8%. In 2011, 22,551 people filed an application for asylum in Switzerland. There was a net immigration of foreigners taking permanent residence in Switzerland of 83,200 in 2007, and of 103,400 in 2008. Net immigration fell moderately in 2009, to 79,000, and continued to fall to 51,190 in 2012.\n\nThe admission of people from non-EU/EFTA countries is regulated by the Foreign Nationals Act, and is limited to skilled workers who are urgently required and are likely to integrate successfully in the long term. There are quotas established yearly: in 2012 it was 3,500 residency permits and 5,000 short-term permits.\n\nIn 2017, 1039 deportations were issued by courts. A third (348) of the deportees were of Balkan origins, 157 were North African and 93 were from West Africa. Of the remainder, 279 were EU citizens of which 138 were Romanians, 33 were French, 32 were Italian and a dozen Germans.\n\nThere have been a number of ballot proposals to restrict immigration to Switzerland, starting already in the 20th century. Many of these were either rejected by popular vote, or not implemented (e.g. the people's initiative \"against foreign infiltration and overpopulation of Switzerland\" or the people's initiative \"for a regulation of immigration\"). Between 1993 and 2010, 18 referendums were held on topics related to the foreign population. These were approved in eleven cases, and rejected in seven. These included:\n\nIn 2009, a total number of 160,600 people immigrated to Switzerland, while a total number of 86,000 people left the country, leaving a net immigration of 74,600 people.\nThis number consists of a net number of 79,000 foreigners immigrating to Switzerland, and 4,500 Swiss citizens emigrating from Switzerland.\n\nNet migration for the period 2005 to 2010:\nPopulation growth in Switzerland is mostly due to immigration: in 2009, there have been 78,286 live births recorded (74% Swiss, 26% foreign nationalities), contrasting with 62,476 deaths (92% Swiss, 8% foreigners).\nThus, of the population growth rate of 1.1% during 2009, about 0.2% are due to births, and 0.9% due to immigration.\n\nAs of 2009, a total number of 1,714,000 foreign nationals were registered as residing in Switzerland, accounting for 22.0% of total population. Of these, 1,680,000 had permanent residence (excluding exchange students, seasonal workers and asylum seekers). Of these, 354,000 were born in Switzerland. Another 522,000 had resided in Switzerland for more than 15 years.\nSwiss nationality law permits naturalization after a period of twelve years. 43,440 people were naturalized as Swiss citizens in 2009.\n\nIn 2013 there were a total of 1,937,447 permanent residents (23.8% of the total population of 8.14 million) in Switzerland. The majority (1.65 million, 85% of the total immigrants and 20.2% of the total population) came from Europe. The following chart shows permanent resident numbers from selected regions and countries every 5 years.\nSource: \n\nThe definition of population of immigrant background includes all persons, regardless of their nationality, whose parents were born abroad. This definition includes first- and second-generation immigrants. In 2011, people of non-Swiss background made up 37.2% of the total resident population of Switzerland, with large differences between cantons.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40913941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40913941", "title": "Intrusiveness", "text": "Intrusiveness\n\nIntrusiveness can refer to a behavior, act, state or disposition towards being intrusive, interrupting and disturbing to others. Intrusiveness is typically unwelcome and recipients of intrusive behavior may feel like the intruder is coming without welcome or invitation, invading their personal space, or interfering in their private life. People who are introverted may be more likely to experience the feeling of being intruded upon.\n\nThere are many interjections, idioms and phrases which are related to intrusiveness, such as \"mind your own business\" or \"being nosey\". Nouns for people who are associated with intrusive behavior include snooper, interferer, interrupter, intruder, interposer, invader, intervener, intervenist, interventionist, pryer, stickybeak, gatecrasher, interloper, peeping tom, persona non grata, encroacher, backseat driver, kibitzer, meddler, nosy parker, marplot, gossipmonger and yenta. There are also some more derisive terms such as buttinsky or busybody. Intrusiveness can some at the hands of a political administration where it may be described as a nanny state or mass surveillance, but can also be derived from oneself or by other individuals such as family members, friends, associates or strangers. Such an occurrence may culminate into feelings of embarrassment.\n"}
{"id": "1825828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1825828", "title": "Jewish views on evolution", "text": "Jewish views on evolution\n\nJewish views on evolution includes a continuum of views about the theory of evolution, experimental evolution, the origin of life, age of the universe, evolutionary creationism, and theistic evolution. Today, many Jews accept the theory of evolution and do not see it as incompatible with traditional Judaism, reflecting the emphasis of prominent rabbis such as the Vilna Gaon and Maimonides on the ethical rather than factual significance of scripture.\n\nMany rabbis believe that God completed the creation of the world close to 6,000 years ago. This view is based on a chronology developed in a midrash, \"Seder Olam\", which was based on a literal reading of the Book of Genesis. It is attributed to the Tanna Yose ben Halafta, and covers history from the creation of the universe to the construction of the Second Temple in Jerusalem. Since there is no explicit discussion in the classical era, it is commonly presumed that they took Genesis 1 literally, making the beginning of the world six days earlier, but this is presumption in the absence of data.\n\nSome modern rabbis believe that the world is older. They believe such a view is needed to accept scientific theories, such as the theory of evolution. Rabbis who have this view base their conclusions on verses in the Talmud or in the midrash. For example:\n\n\nIn his commentary on the Torah, Rabbi Bahya ben Asher (11th century, Spain) concludes that there were many time systems occurring in the universe long before the spans of history that man is familiar with. Based on the Kabbalah he calculates that the Earth is billions of years old.\n\nSome medieval philosophical rationalists, such as Maimonides and Gersonides held that not every statement in Genesis is meant literally. In this view, one was obligated to understand Torah in a way that was compatible with the findings of science. Indeed, Maimonides, one of the great Rabbis of the Middle Ages, wrote that if science and Torah were misaligned, it was either because science was not understood or the Torah was misinterpreted. Maimonides argued that if science proved a point that did not contradict any fundamentals of faith, then the finding should be accepted and scripture should be interpreted accordingly. For example, in discussing Plato's view that the universe has existed literally forever, he argued that there was no convincing rational proof one way or the other, so that he (Maimonides) was free to accept, and therefore did accept, the literal Biblical view that the universe came into being at a definite time; but that had Plato's Theory been convincing enough with sufficient scientific proof he would have been able to reinterpret Genesis accordingly. With regard to Genesis, Maimonides stated that \"the account given in scripture is not, as is generally believed, intended to be in all its parts literal.\" Later in the same paragraph, he specifically states that this applies to the text from the beginning to the account of the sixth day of creation.\n\nNahmanides, often critical of the rationalist views of Maimonides, pointed out (in his commentary to Genesis) several non-sequiturs stemming from a literal translation of the Bible's account of Creation, and stated that the account actually symbolically refers to spiritual concepts. He quoted the Mishnah in Tractate Hagigah which states that the actual meaning of the Creation account, mystical in nature, was traditionally transmitted from teachers to advanced scholars in a private setting. Many classic Kabbalistic sources mention \"Shmitot\" - cosmic cycles of creation, similar to the Indian concept of yugas. Nahmanides' disciple, Rabbi Isaac of Akko, a prominent Kabbalist of 13th-century, held that the Universe is about 15 billion years old. According to the tradition of \"Shmitot\", Genesis talks openly only about the current epoch, while the information about the previous cosmic cycles is hidden in the esoteric reading of the text.\n\nA literal interpretation of the biblical Creation story among classic rabbinic commentators is uncommon. Thus Bible commentator Abraham Ibn Ezra (11th Century) wrote,\n\n\"If there appears something in the Torah which contradicts reason…then here one should seek for the solution in a figurative interpretation…the narrative of the tree of knowledge of good and evil, for instance, can only be understood in a figurative sense.\"\n\nOne of several notable exceptions may be the Tosafist commentary on Tractate Rosh Hashanah, where there seems to be an allusion to the age of creation according to a literal reading of Genesis. The non-literal approach is accepted by many as a possible approach within Modern Orthodox Judaism and some segments of Haredi Judaism.\n\nRashi, while his commentary on the verses describing the days of creation teaches them as literal days, brackets his discussion of Genesis ch. 1 with comments stating that the entire world was created at once, with no duration of existence before Adam being specified.\n\nIn the 13th century, Rabbi Isaac ben Samuel of Acre made the insight that, since Sabbatical cycles existed before man was created, time before Adam and Eve must be measured in divine years, not human years. Psalm 90:4 says, \"For a thousand years in thy sight are but like yesterday when it is past, and like a watch in the night.\" Rabbi Isaac of Akko - who held like Livnat Ha-Sapir, that we are in the seventh Sabbatical cycle - therefore took the above figure of 42,000 years and multiplied it by 365,250 (he was using a 365.25-day year) to get 15,340,500,000 years for the age of the universe when Adam was created.\n\nWith the advent of Charles Darwin's evolutionary theory, the Jewish community found itself engaged in a discussion of Jewish principles of faith and modern scientific findings.\n\nRabbi Elijah Benamozegh, an Italian Kabbalist, wrote that were evolution to become a mainstay of scientific theory, it would not contradict the Torah as long as one understood it as having been guided by God.\n\nRabbi Israel Lipschitz of Danzig (19th century) gave a famous lecture on Torah and paleontology, which is printed in the \"Yachin u-Boaz\" edition of the Mishnah, after Massechet Sanhedrin. He writes that Kabbalistic texts teach that the world has gone through many cycles of history, each lasting for many tens of thousands of years. He links these teachings to findings about geology from European, American and Asian geologists, and from findings from paleontologists. He discusses the wooly mammoth discovered in 1807 Siberia, Russia, and the remains of several then-famous dinosaur skeletons recently unearthed. Finding no contradiction between this and Jewish teachings, he states \"From all this, we can see that all the Kabbalists have told us for so many centuries about the fourfold destruction and renewal of the Earth has found its clearest possible confirmation in our time.\"\n\nWhen scientists first developed the theory of evolution, this idea was seized upon by Rabbis such as Naftali Zvi Yehuda Berlin, known as the Netziv, who saw Kabbalah as a way to resolve the differences between traditional readings of the Bible and modern day scientific findings. He proposed that the ancient fossils of dinosaurs were the remains of beings that perished in the previous \"worlds\" described in midrash and in some Kabbalistic texts. This was the view held by Rabbi Aryeh Kaplan (1934–1983).\n\nIn the late 1880s, Rabbi Samson Raphael Hirsch, an influential leader in the early opposition to non-Orthodox forms of Judaism, wrote that while he did not endorse the idea of common descent (that all life developed from one common organism), even if science ever did prove the factuality of Evolution, it would not pose a threat to Orthodox Judaism's beliefs. He posited that belief in Evolution could instead cause one to be more reverent of God by understanding His wonders (a master plan for the universe).\n\nBy the early to mid-1900s, the majority of Conservative Judaism and Reform Judaism came to accept the existence of evolution as a scientific fact. They interpreted Genesis and related Jewish teachings in light of this fact.\n\nThe Rabbinical Council of America (RCA) has \"maintained that evolutionary theory, properly understood, is not incompatible with belief in a Divine Creator, nor with the first 2 chapters of Genesis.\" Prominent Orthodox rabbis who have affirmed that the world is older, and that life has evolved over time include Israel Lipschitz, Sholom Mordechai Schwadron (the MaHaRSHaM) (1835–1911), Zvi Hirsch Chajes (1805–1855) and Abraham Isaac Kook (1865–1935). These rabbis proposed their own versions of theistic evolution, in which the world is older, and that life does evolve over time in accord with natural law, painting natural law as the process by which God drives the world.\n\nThere is, in parallel, a discussion on this subject by scientists in the Orthodox Jewish community. One of the most prominent is Gerald Schroeder, an MIT trained physicist. He has written a number of articles and popular books attempting to reconcile Jewish theology with modern scientific findings that the world is billions of years old and that life has evolved over time. His work has received approbations from a number of Orthodox rabbinic authorities. Other physicists writing on this topic include Alvin Radkowsky, Nathan Aviezer, Herman Branover, Cyril Domb, Aryeh Kaplan and Yehuda (Leo) Levi.\n\nVarious popular works, citing an array of classical, Orthodox views, attempt to reconcile traditional Jewish texts with modern scientific findings concerning evolution, the age of the earth and the age of the Universe; these include:\n\nConservative Judaism embraces science as a way to learn about the world, and, like Modern Orthodox and Reform Judaism, has not found the theory of evolution a challenge to traditional Jewish theology. The Conservative Jewish movement has not yet developed one official response to the subject, but a broad array of views has converged. Conservative Jews teach that God created the universe and is responsible for the creation of life within it, but proclaims no mandatory teachings about how this occurs.\n\nMany Conservative Rabbis embrace the term theistic evolution, and reject the term intelligent design. Conservative rabbis who use the term \"intelligent design\" in their sermons often distinguish their views from the Christian use of the term. Like most in the scientific community, they understand \"intelligent design\" to be a technique by Christians to insert religion into public schools, as admitted in the Intelligent design movement's \"wedge strategy\".\n\nThe Central Conference of American Rabbis is opposed to the teaching of creationism in public schools, as is the Rabbinical Assembly.\n\nConservative Judaism strongly supports the use of science as the proper way to learn about the physical world in which we live, and thus encourages its adherents to find a way to understand evolution in a way that does not contradict the findings of scientific research. The tension between accepting God's role in the world and the findings of science, however, is not resolved, and a wide array of views exists. Some mainstream examples of Conservative Jewish thought are as follows:\n\nProfessor Ismar Schorsch, former chancellor of the Jewish Theological Seminary of America, writes that:\n\nRabbi David J. Fine, who has authorized official responsa for the Conservative movement's Committee on Jewish Law and Standards, expresses a common Conservative Jewish view on the subject:\n\nRabbi Michael Schwab writes:\n\nThe claim that evolution is purposeful is in conflict with modern-day evolutionary theory. The precise way in which God inserts design is not specified by Schwab or other rabbis.\n\nRabbi Lawrence Troster is a critic of positions such as this. He holds that much of Judaism (and other religions) have not successfully created a theology which allows for the role of God in the world and yet is also fully compatible with modern-day evolutionary theory. Troster maintains that the solution to resolving the tension between classical theology and modern science can be found in process theology, such as in the writings of Hans Jonas, whose view of an evolving God within process philosophy contains no inherent contradictions between theism and scientific naturalism.\nIn a paper on Judaism and environmentalism, Troster writes:\n\nWhilst the Reform, Conservative and Modern Orthodox movements have stated that they feel there is not a conflict between evolutionary theory and the teachings of Judaism, some Haredi rabbis have remained staunchly opposed to certain teachings in evolutionary theory. In contrast with the literalist biblical interpretation of some Christian creationists, they express an openness to multiple interpretations of Genesis, through Jewish oral tradition and Jewish mysticism. They have also expressed an openness to evolutionary theory in biology, except where they perceive that it is in conflict with the Torah's account of creation.\n\nRabbi Avigdor Miller, a highly revered American Haredi rabbi of the Lithuanian Yeshivah Tradition, who was also highly respected in Hasidic communities such as Satmar, was strongly opposed to the theory of evolution, and wrote strong polemics against evolution in several of his books, as well as speaking about this subject often in his popular lectures, taking a Creationist position. Several selections from his books on this subject were collected in a pamphlet he published in 1995 called \"The Universe Testifies\".\n\nRabbi Menachem Mendel Schneerson, the Rebbe of the worldwide movement of Lubavitcher or Chabad Hasidism, was avidly opposed to evolution opposed to evolution, and his following remains committed to that position.\n\nRabbi Avi Shafran, a spokesman for Agudath Israel, writes a weekly column that is widely syndicated in the Jewish press. As an opponent of Darwinian evolutionary theory, Shafran is careful to distinguish the Jewish perspective from that of Christian fundamentalism. He writes, \"An unfortunate side-effect of our affirmation of purpose in creation at a time of controversy is the assumption made by some that we believing Jews share some other groups’ broader skepticism of science. But while Torah-faithful Jews reject the blind worship of science, we do not regard science as an enemy.\" Quite the contrary, Shafran remarks, Judaism seeks to learn as much as possible from God's creation.\n\nShafran also rejects the literalism of Christian fundamentalism. He writes, \"Nor is 'Biblical literalism' a Jewish approach. Many are the \"p’sukim\" (verses) that do not mean what a simple reading would yield.\" To Shafran, the Jewish oral tradition is the key to the true meaning of the Torah's words. \"There are multiple levels of deeper meanings inaccessible to most of us. The words of \"Breishis\" (Genesis, Ashkenazi Hebrew) and the Midrashim thereon hide infinitely more than they reveal. It is clear that the Torah describes the creation of the universe as the willful act of \"HaKodosh Boruch Hu\" (the Holy One), and describes creation as having unfolded in stages. But details are hardly provided.\"\n\nSome contemporary Orthodox Jews writers are concerned that if evolution is accepted as true, then it could lead to the Torah being deemed not only irrelevant but also false. Rabbi Dovid Gottlieb has argued that for Jews accepting evolution is equivalent to accepting atheism. The Israeli microbiologist Morris Goldman has written that Darwinism is a problem for Judaism, since Darwinism makes god irrelevant. Other issues are that evolution can provide a non religious basis for the development of morality, and it removes the idea that humans are qualitatively different from other animals.\n\nIn 2004-2005, three popular books by Rabbi Natan Slifkin (sometimes pronounced \"Nosson\" Slifkin) were banned by a group of Haredi rabbinic authorities on the grounds that they were heretical. Known to his admirers as the \"Zoo Rabbi,\" Nosson Slifkin was the author of \"The Torah Universe\", a series of books on science and religion that were widely read in Orthodox communities until they were suddenly banned. \"The books written by Nosson Slifkin present a great stumbling block to the reader,\" the ban declared. \"They are full of heresy, twist and misrepresent the words of our sages and ridicule the foundations of our \"emunah\" (faith).\" The ban, which prohibited Jews from reading, owning, or distributing Slifkin's books, prompted a widespread backlash in the Orthodox Jewish community.\n\nJennie Rothenberg, reporting on this ban in the secular Jewish journal, \"Moment\", asserted that the incident represents a major breaking point within ultra-Orthodox society. Rothenberg interviewed several rabbis who wished to remain anonymous. According to one of them, \"Over the past 15 years, the rabbis of Bnai Brak and the more open American ultra-Orthodox rabbis have been split on a number of important policy decisions. The Slifkin ban is a huge break. It’s a kind of power struggle, and those who didn’t sign the ban are outraged right now. I’m talking about rabbis with long white beards who are furious about it.\" Slifkin’s views, according to this rabbi, are shared by countless figures within the ultra-Orthodox community. \"He’s saying out loud what a lot of people have been talking about quietly all along. To those people, he’s a kind of figurehead.\"\n\nSeveral Modern Orthodox Jewish scientists have interpreted creation in light of both modern scientific findings and rabbinical interpretations of Genesis. Each of these scientists have claimed that modern science actually confirms a literal interpretation of Torah. All of them accept the scientific evidence that the age of the Earth and the age of the universe are on a scale of billions of years, and all of them acknowledge that the diversity of species on Earth can be explained through an evolutionary framework. However, each of them interprets certain aspects of evolution or the emergence of modern humans as a divine process, rather than a natural one. Thus, each of them accepts an evolutionary paradigm, while rejecting some aspects of Darwinism. Shai Cherry writes, \"While twentieth century Jewish theologians have tended to compartmentalize science and the Torah, our Modern Orthodox physicists synthesized them.\n\n\nShai Cherry, Professor of Jewish Thought at Vanderbilt University, remarks that these Modern Orthodox scientists have rejected the approach taken by Jewish theologians. Theologians have tended to use later writings, such as Midrash and Kabbalah, to reconcile modern science with Genesis. The Orthodox scientists, by comparison, have largely ignored Jewish theology, in favor of a fundamentalist and literalist interpretation of Genesis. Yet in their writings, each of them seeks to reconcile science with Genesis. Cherry speculates, \"They were targeting an American Jewish community that privileges science over Torah as a source of scientific knowledge. If Genesis could be shown to have anticipated Darwin or Einstein, then the Bible would regain an aura of truth that it had been losing since the advent of biblical criticism and modern science.\"\n\nAccording to Cherry, the books of Aviezar, Schroeder, and Landa have each sought to strengthen Orthodox Jewry in a time of mounting secularization. Aviezar and Schroeder sought to prove that Genesis anticipates the findings of modern science, and thus increase its status. By contrast, Landa sought to remove a barrier to Orthodox commitment, by proving to secular Jews that Orthodox Judaism and modern science are compatible. At the same time, he sought to persuade students in his own Orthodox community that the study of science is not incompatible with commitment to Orthodoxy.\n\nNathan Robertson a researcher in Biophysics has also released a book titled \"The First Six Days\" which claims to reconcile the scientific theory of the beginnings of the universe and life with the biblical account of creation. Rabbinical sources are cited from Nachmanides (Ramban) and Rashi along with kabbalistic interpretations of Genesis. Nathan reconciles Darwinian evolution with the biblical account and states that at deeper levels of understanding of the biblical text and of scientific theory, the two worlds overlap. \"As one studies science to deeper levels and also tries to study Bereshis [Genesis] to deeper levels, both principles begin to converge on each other.\"\n\nThe movement for intelligent design claims that an intelligent creator is responsible for the origin of life and of humankind, and rejects evolution. Jewish theologians, organizations, and activists have maintained that intelligent design is not valid science but that it is a religious concept. Although some have expressed support for a theistic interpretation of evolution, they have generally rejected the tenets of the intelligent design movement. To Rabbi Brad Hirschfield, President of the National Jewish Center for Learning and Leadership, intelligent design is \"their attempt to confirm what they already believe.\" Jewish organizations in the United States have been steadfast in their opposition to the teaching of intelligent design in public schools, charging that to do so would violate the separation of church and state.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14061712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14061712", "title": "Juang language", "text": "Juang language\n\nThe Juang language is a language spoken primarily by the Juang people of Odisha state, eastern India.\n\nThe Juang language belongs to the Munda language family, the whole of which is classified as a branch of the greater Austroasiatic language family. Among the Munda languages, Juang is considered to be most closely related to Kharia, although Anderson considers Juang and Kharia to have split off from each other relatively early.\n\nJuang can be roughly divided into the Hill and Plains varieties, both of which are spoken in Odisha (Patnaik 2008:508).\n\nJuang is spoken by about 30,875 people according to the 2001 Indian census. In Odisha state, it is spoken in southern Keonjhar district, northern Angul district, and eastern Dhenkanal district (Patnaik 2008:508).\n\nJuang is currently an Endangered language and is considered to vulnerable, or (not spoken by children outside of home).\n\nJuang currently has roughly under 20,000 speakers remaining\n\nIn Juang a number of roots are clearly exempt from the Transitive verb/Intransitive verb opposition, so that the function of the root can be determined only from its co-occurrence with the particular set of tense markers.\n\nFor Example,\n\npag- Set I 'to break' -Set II 'to be broken1\n\nrag- Set I 'to tear' - Set II 'to be torn1\n\nguj- Set I 'to wash' - Set II 'to be was\n\nThe writing system used by people who speak the Juang language is Odia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47695603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47695603", "title": "List of common misconceptions about language learning", "text": "List of common misconceptions about language learning\n\nThe subject of language learning is subject to several misconceptions. It is common for people to rely on their own intuitions about language learning, though they would not do so with other technical subjects such as physics (a phenomenon known as \"folk linguistics\"). However, these intuitions are often contradicted by scientific research.\n\nLearning a first language is not rapid for children. Children spend years learning their mother tongue, and the process continues well into their school years. At seven years old, for example, many children have difficulties creating passive-voice sentences.\n\nIt is often assumed that young children learn languages more easily than adolescents and adults. However, the reverse is true; older learners are faster. The only exception to this rule is in pronunciation. Young children invariably learn to speak their second language with native-like pronunciation, whereas learners who start learning a language at an older age only rarely reach a native-like level.\n\nGeneral intelligence is actually quite a poor indicator of language-learning ability. Motivation, tolerance for ambiguity, and self-esteem are all better indicators of language-learning success.\n\nThe ability for learners to develop their language skills depends to a large extent on the type of language input that they receive. For input to be effective for second-language acquisition, it must be comprehensible. Merely being immersed in a second-language environment is no guarantee of receiving comprehensible input. For example, learners living in a country where their second language is spoken may be lucky enough to interact with native speakers who can alter their speech to make it comprehensible; but equally, many learners will not have that same luck, and may not understand the vast majority of the input that they receive.\n\nIn addition, adult learners living in a foreign country may not have very high linguistic demands placed on them, for example if they are a low-level employee at a company. Without the incentive to develop high-level skills in their second language, learners may undergo \"language fossilisation\", or a plateau in their language level.\n\nClassroom instruction can be useful in both providing appropriate input for second-language learners, and for helping them overcome problems of fossilisation.\n\nThe study of grammar is helpful for second-language learners, and a lack of grammar knowledge can slow down the language-learning process. On the other hand, relying on grammar instruction as the primary means of learning the language is also detrimental. A balance between these two extremes is necessary for optimal language learning.\n\nLearners can learn two or more languages without their first language development being adversely affected. There is no such thing as a \"fixed amount of space\" for languages in the brain. In reality, learners' first languages and their additional languages become part of an integrated system.\n\nLearning to speak a language conversationally is only part of the way towards becoming fluent in it. Just because a child can speak a language does not mean that they are yet capable of writing and understanding academic language. This kind of language is particularly important in school in the later grades. One study of 1,200 Canadian schoolchildren indicated that it may take between five and seven years longer to master academic language than to master conversational language.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49954576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49954576", "title": "Mohammed Said Al-Habsi", "text": "Mohammed Said Al-Habsi\n\nMohammed Said Al-Habsi (; born 14 May 1994), commonly known as Mohammed Al-Habsi, is an Omani footballer who plays for Muscat Club in Oman Professional League.\n\nMohammed is part of the first team squad of the Oman national football team. He was selected for the national team for the first time in 2016. He made his first appearance for Oman on 24 March 2016 in a 2018 FIFA World Cup Qualification match against Guam.\n\n"}
{"id": "613513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=613513", "title": "Monsieur", "text": "Monsieur\n\nUnder the Ancien Régime, the court title of Monsieur referred to the next brother in the line of succession of the King of France.\n\nHercule François, Duke of Anjou and Alençon (1555–1584), was the first notable member of the royalty to assume the title without the use of an adjoining proper name. In 1576, Monsieur pressured his brother King Henry III of France into signing the Edict of Beaulieu and effectively ending the Fifth Religious War of France. The resulting peace became popularly known as \"the Peace of Monsieur\".\n\nThe title was later assumed by Gaston, Duke of Orléans, brother of Louis XIII, and then Philippe I, Duke of Orléans, brother of Louis XIV. From 1643 to 1660, while both princes were alive, Philippe was commonly known as \"le Petit Monsieur\", while Gaston, his uncle, was known as \"le Grand Monsieur\".\n\nFor over seventy years, from 1701 to 1774, the title had no living representatives in the French court, as Philippe of France, died in 1701; Louis XV was the youngest of the sons of Louis of France, Duke of Burgundy and at the time of his accession to the throne in 1715 had no brothers.\n\nThe title was restored in 1775 for Louis Stanislas Xavier, Count of Provence, the oldest surviving brother of the reigning Louis XVI and the future Louis XVIII. After his coronation in 1814, the title passed to Charles Philippe, Count of Artois, his younger brother. Charles Philippe, who led the ultras during the Bourbon Restoration and became King Charles X in 1824, was the last royal sibling to officially hold the title of Monsieur. His successor, Louis-Philippe I, the next and last king to rule France, had lost both his brothers, Louis Charles and Antoine Philippe, many years before he succeeded to the throne.\n\nA fuller list of those who have been known by this title includes:\n\n\nIn modern French, \"monsieur\" (plural \"messieurs\") is used as a courtesy title of respect, an equivalent of English \"mister\" or \"sir\". It can be abbreviated in \"M.\" (plural: \"MM.\"), \"Mssr.\" (plural: \"Mssrs.\"), and rarely \"M\" (plural: \"M\"), but never \"Mr.\", which is only for \"Mister\".\n\n"}
{"id": "40395428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40395428", "title": "Nancy E. Rice", "text": "Nancy E. Rice\n\nNancy E. Rice (born June 2, 1950) was the Chief Justice of the Colorado Supreme Court.\n\nRice was born on June 2, 1950 in Boulder, Colorado, and grew up in Colorado and Cheyenne, Wyoming. She received her Bachelor of Arts cum laude from Tufts University in 1972 and her J.D. from the University of Utah College of Law in 1975. She has one daughter.\n\nAfter graduating from law school, Rice served as a law clerk for Judge Fred Winner of the United States District Court for the District of Colorado from 1975 to 1976. She then worked as an appellate state public defender from 1976 to 1977 before joining the U.S. Attorney's Office for the District of Colorado, where she served as the Deputy Chief of the Civil Division from 1985 to 1987. Rice became a judge on the Denver District Court in 1987, the same year she began teaching as an adjunct professor at the University of Colorado School of Law.\n\nRice was originally appointed to the Colorado Supreme Court on August 5, 1998, by Governor Roy Romer and was subsequently elevated to Chief Justice on January 8, 2014. She retired from active service on June 30, 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "50890234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50890234", "title": "Naneelu", "text": "Naneelu\n\nNaneelu is a form of Telugu literature which contains 4 lines and a minimum of 20 letters, not exceeding 25. This form was introduced by Sahitya Akademi Award winner Professor N. Gopi.\n\nNaneelu was introduced in the year 2002 by Dr N Gopi through his book \"Naeelu\".\n\nNaneelu should have 4 lines and never have less than 20 and never exceed 25 letters. If one were to pause at the end of the second line, the executed meaning is incomplete. At the same time, the first is not clear unless one reads the second part. That means though appearing as identical in structure and as two sentences, the poem reaches completion only when united in thought.\n\n\"Nani\" is a word used in Telugu Community to call their children with love. Dr N Gopi wanted to name this form with something very connected to Telugu people. So, he considered this name.\n\nAnd Gopi in his book also said \"Naneelu belong to you and to me - 'na' and 'nee' mean in Telugu 'my' and 'your' respectively, and the end 'lu' indicative of the plural number of the poems - in short, they belong to all of us\"\n\n<poem>\n\"Grieve not\n\"for the broken earthen pot.\n\"The earth is preparing\n\"to shape anew\"\n</poem>\n"}
{"id": "50917538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50917538", "title": "Patrick Courrielche", "text": "Patrick Courrielche\n\nPatrick Courrielche is an American media entrepreneur, writer, arts advocate, and political pundit, known for pioneering the pop-up retail trend.He has written articles for and appeared on a variety of media outlets. His writing has led to the White House issuing new federal guidelines, and the international music industry suing a website for copyright infringement.\n\nWhile working as an applied physicist for aerospace firm TRW Inc., in 1997 Courrielche started the now ubiquitous pop-up retail trend - or short-term sales spaces - with an event called the Ritual Expo. Initially a nightclub-meets-shopping experience, the event would eventually focus solely on creating temporary shopping experiences during the day and was initially called the \"ultimate hipster mall.\" The event was known for attracting style brokers and cultural influencers in Los Angeles. According to Courrielche, he started his pop-up retail stores with smaller, hard-to-find clothing manufacturers because large corporate brands did not immediately find value in the new concept. That all changed with the 2000 publication of The Tipping Point by Malcolm Gladwell. In his book, Gladwell emphasized the importance of connecting with \"influencers\" to sell a product or service. Companies began contacting Courrielche to create pop-up stores to reach these influencers, and he eventually sold the Ritual Expo to the creators of Lollapalooza and began working with Levi Strauss, AT&T, and Motorola to execute pop-up retail stores all across the US that featured their products alongside smaller fashion brands and artworks by Shepard Fairey and Dave Kinsey. Courrielche is now referred to as \"the parent of pop up.\"\n\nIn 1998, Courrielche started a lifestyle marketing & PR firm, Inform Ventures, with his future wife Adryana Courrielche, and in 2003 began work with Toyota launching its new youth brand Scion – considered culturally significant for its use of the arts in attracting customers. He handled Scion's public relations and promotions during the launch, created and produced several branded-entertainment films, including a 2004 docudrama featuring Questlove from The Roots and a 2007 short-film featuring Biz Markie, and in 2005 helped create and launch Scion Audio/Visual - one of the first brand-funded record labels. The launch was highlighted as \"the most successful automotive brand launch in the history of the auto industry of North America,\" with several books and researchers publishing analysis on the launch for its novel approach.\n\nAlong with his wife and business partner Adryana, Courrielche created, produced, and wrote a semi-scripted 2010 series of global warming debates between global warming proponents and skeptics, and moderated by comedians Sarah Silverman, Andy Samberg, Jamie Kennedy, Tracy Morgan, and singer Mark McGrath.\n\nIn 2012, he created the first luxury automotive publicity campaign featuring a gay married couple, Simon Doonan and Jonathan Adler.\n\nIn August 2009, Courrielche participated in and secretly recorded a National Endowment for the Arts (NEA) conference call in which the NEA's communications director, Yosi Sergant encouraged the participants (members of the media and arts community) to support the Obama administration's goals by promoting the \"United We Serve\" campaign and create art specific to areas of health care, education and the environment. The White House Office of Public Engagement also participated in the call. Courrielche criticized the NEA in a subsequent Breitbart News piece (which was published in part by the Wall Street Journal), expressing the view that the NEA was being inappropriately used for political purposes. Eleven Republican U.S. Senators criticized the conference call and questioned its legality. Melanie Sloan of the ethics group Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington said that the NEA's call was \"terrible\" and \"inappropriate\" although not a violation of federal law. Following the affair, Sergant resigned his position and the White House issued formal guidance and training for staffers \"to make sure such a call never happens again.\" In a 2017 op-ed in the 'Wall Street Journal', Courrielche advocated for the elimination of the NEA, claiming that it had become politically tainted, failed to meet its charter, had allowed the degradation of arts education in public schools, and was unable to meet the arts modern challenges. He suggested replacing the agency with an arts counsel that would continue necessary programs, while advising the President on legislation that he says could address what he perceives as systemic problems prohibiting it from flourishing.\n\nCourrielche is active in the climate change movement. He participated in the investigation of Climatic Research Unit email controversy (\"Climategate\") at the University of East Anglia, and claimed that the affair \"triggered the death of unconditional trust in the scientific peer-review process, and the maturing of a new movement of peer-to-peer review.\"\n\nIn 2015, Courrielche wrote a long form story \"St. Nicholas: The Birth Of A Social Weapon\" on the origin of Santa Claus and introduced the concept of a \"social weapon\" - a packaged idea, message, or product that is used by an individual or group to advance their cause. Courrielche argued that New York City elites crafted Santa Claus from St. Nicholas, a widely known patron saint, to stabilize a city plagued by annual misbehavior every December. Santa Claus was then used as a \"social weapon\" by merchants, craftsman, city rulers, parents, newspapers, and others to benefit their endeavors. The essay was added to the St. Nicholas Center's resource on the Origin of Santa Claus.\n\nOn August 3, 2016, Courrielche published a long form story entitled \"Stream Ripping: How Google/YouTube Is Slowly Killing the Music Industry\" that looked at a growing trend of alleged \"music piracy\" enabled by stream ripping sites - websites that rip audio from streaming music sites like YouTube - that was slowly killing the business of selling songs. The story featured YouTube-mp3.org - what Courrielche called the most highly trafficked stream ripping website in the world - and followed its founder Philip Matesanz in his creation of the site as well as his early conflicts with YouTube and its parent, Google. By tracking the former and current success of USA for Africa and it's famed song We Are The World, the investigation showed how the music industry was being negatively affected by stream ripping sites like YouTube-mp3.org and highlighted how YouTube-mp3.org and Google profit from the practice of stream ripping through advertising. \"After a short visit to YouTube-mp3.org, 'We Are The World' can be downloaded for free,\" wrote Courrielche. \"USA for Africa receives nothing. The stream ripping site eventually agreed to shutdown after being sued by major record labels.\n"}
{"id": "17179862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17179862", "title": "Prostitution in the United Arab Emirates", "text": "Prostitution in the United Arab Emirates\n\nProstitution in the United Arab Emirates is illegal both under federal law and Sharia. Punishments can be severe including imprisonment and flogging, and the Sharia courts may impose more severe punishments during Ramadan. Foreign prostitutes are deported after serving their sentences. In 2006 the UAE deported 4,300 foreign prostitutes.\n\nDespite its illegality, prostitution is widespread, especially in Dubai and Abu Dhabi. The authorities generally turn a blind eye provided it is kept out of the public eye. There are however, occasional clampdowns.\n\nUAE nationals are permitted a number of residence visas. These are mainly used for domestic staff, but any surplus are often sold through middlemen to prostitutes to enter and remain in the country for two years. Residence visas may change hands at upwards of £5,000. Despite a law forbidding entry to unaccompanied females under 31 years of age, \"agents arrange for prostitutes to enter the country on a 30 day tourist visa.\n\nAlthough there is some street prostitution, notably Hamdan Street in Abu Dhabi, most prostitution takes place in the bars and nightclubs of hotels.\n\nThere has been a sex trade in Dubai for many years. In 1936, Sheikh Saeed's \"wali\" forced the prostitutes to get married or to leave. During the 1950's & 1960's, two madams controlled the Iranian prostitutes. One controlled the red-light district in Bur Dubai, the other around Nasser Square (now Baniyas Square). Sheikh Rashid ordered that all the prostitutes were rounded up and deported. This caused a run on the local British bank when the women tried to draw out all their savings.\n\nModern Dubai is one of the main centres of prostitution in the UAE and is dubbed \"Sodom-sur-Mer\". There are estimated to be 30,000 prostitutes in the city. Prostitutes frequent the bars and nightclubs in the hotels. Many prostitutes from poorer countries, such as Nigeria, come to work in Dubai for a short while and then return home with their earnings.\n\nThere are also brothels in Dubai. The Cyclone, near the airport was closed down in 2007 after it was featured in Vanity Fair magazine, but the operation simply set up at another location. Known by visitors as the \"United Nations of prostitution\", the club have as many as 500 prostitutes on the premises on an average night, many from Azerbaijan, Bulgaria, China, Russia, Taiwan, Tajikistan, and Uzbekistan.\n\nThe Cycle appeared in the 2008 Leonardo DiCaprio and Russell Crowe film Body of Lies.\n\nHuman trafficking is a problem in Dubai, often Asian or Chinese gangs exploiting women from India or Nepal.\n\nThe UAE attracts many foreign businessmen as it is slowly gaining a reputation as one of the Middle East's sex tourism destinations. Many of them arrive regularly from the post-Soviet states, South America, Eastern Europe, Far East, Africa, South Asia, and other states of the Middle East.\n\nIn 2007, the United States State Department placed the United Arab Emirates as a \"Tier 2\" in its annual Trafficking in Persons reports, meaning that it does not fully comply with the minimum standards for the elimination of trafficking but is making significant efforts to do so. The UAE is a destination and transit country for women subjected to sex trafficking. Some women, predominantly from Eastern Europe, Central Asia, South and Southeast Asia, East Africa, Iraq, Iran, and Morocco, are subjected to forced prostitution in the UAE. In 2016, 22 cases related to sex trafficking were brought before the courts.\n"}
{"id": "509880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=509880", "title": "Race card", "text": "Race card\n\nPlaying the race card is an idiomatic phrase that refers to exploitation of either racist or anti-racist attitudes by accusing others of racism.\n\nThe phrase is commonly used to allege that someone has deliberately and falsely accused another person of being a racist in order to gain some sort of advantage. An example of this use of the term occurred during the O. J. Simpson murder trial, when critics accused the defense of \"playing the race card\" in presenting Mark Fuhrman's past (e.g., his recorded use of the word \"nigger\" in addition to his being accused of tampering with murder evidence in prior cases, as well as his use of the Fifth Amendment to avoid potential self-incrimination upon questioning) as a reason to draw his credibility as a witness into question.\n\nStanford professor Richard Thompson Ford has argued that the race card can be played independent of the person making the claim, or the race in question. An example cited was the Hillary Clinton campaign's assertion that Obama won the 2008 Democratic primary in South Carolina due to the disproportionate number of black registered Democrats in the state, implying more racism in the general population.\n\nGeorge Dei, \"et al.\", in the book \"Playing the Race Card\" argue that the term itself is a rhetorical device used in an effort to devalue and minimize claims of racism.\n\nIn February 2008, Group Chief Editor Wong Chun Wai of \"The Star\" wrote, just before the Malaysia general election came, there is an unusual degree of tolerance and flexibility in matters of race, language and religion as politicians try to woo the people. \"Also, there are those who still continue to play the race card, in this age and time. At their party conferences each year, they play to the gallery by projecting themselves as the communal heroes. But during the general election, they shamelessly become the true Malaysian leaders we dream of. They greet their voters in Malay, English, Mandarin and Tamil; and if they can speak all these languages fluently, they would do so.\"\n\nIn August 2006, the Singapore Institute of International Affairs wrote that Malaysia politician Khairy Jamaluddin \"played the race card\" by stirring up the Malays and the Chinese Malaysian community. Responding to criticisms and demands for an apology, Khairy said his remarks were misunderstood and he \"will not apologise\" as he was acting only \"in defence of the Malays and his party\" and that \"if we truly fight for our race, one should not apologise\".\n\n"}
{"id": "32748027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32748027", "title": "Sanga language (Bantu)", "text": "Sanga language (Bantu)\n\nSanga, or Luba-Sanga, is a Bantu language of the Democratic Republic of Congo. It is closely related to Luba-Katanga.\n"}
{"id": "49195342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49195342", "title": "Spontaneous Unaffiliated Volunteers", "text": "Spontaneous Unaffiliated Volunteers\n\nA Spontaneous Unaffiliated Volunteer (SUV) refers to individuals who volunteer to assist community members, typically after a large-scale or well-publicized disaster. Because unaffiliated volunteers lack consistent training, and each volunteer's trustworthiness is unknown, SUV management can be very difficult, and the subject of a large amount of research and practice.\n\nIn many community organizing circles, the term \"Community Volunteer\" is preferred, emphasizing the community-centric nature of unaffiliated volunteerism.\n"}
{"id": "2647874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2647874", "title": "Stephen Gough", "text": "Stephen Gough\n\nStephen Peter Gough (born 13 May 1959), popularly known as the \"Naked Rambler\", is a British activist and former Royal Marine and prisoner of conscience. In 2003–04, he walked the length of Great Britain naked, but was arrested when he did it again in 2005-06. Since then he has spent most of the intervening years in prison, having been repeatedly rearrested for contempt of court for public nudity, each time within a short period after release. Gough stands tall and has served most of his sentences in Saughton Prison and Perth Prison in Scotland.\n\nGough, an ex-lorry driver, is from Eastleigh, Hampshire, and is known for walking the length of Great Britain from Land's End to John o' Groats over 2003 and 2004 wearing only boots, socks, a rucksack and sometimes a hat. He was arrested and imprisoned on numerous occasions during the course of his ramble.\n\nHis second Land's End to John o' Groats ramble was in 2005 and 2006 and accompanied by his girlfriend Melanie Roberts (born 1971 or 1972). He was arrested twice in England but almost immediately released. Upon entering Scotland, he was arrested several times, the current total being over 20 including contempt of court after he appeared naked before a judge. His website claimed that ordering him to wear clothes for his court appearance \"breached Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights\" – Right to a Fair Trial. He claimed that Articles 3 and 5 to 11 had been repeatedly breached by the authorities since he and Melanie had arrived in Scotland. He served a three-month sentence in Saughton Prison. The walk was resumed on 12 February 2006, and completed shortly after on Monday 20 February the same year. \"The Guardian\" newspaper congratulated the couple on completing their journey, stating that they were practicing gymnosophy in the tradition of people such as George Bernard Shaw.\n\nGough was involved with the public nudity advocacy group The Freedom to be Yourself.\n\nGough was arrested again on 19 May 2006 at Edinburgh Airport after removing his clothes during a flight from Southampton to Edinburgh and refusing to get dressed. On 25 August 2006 he was given a seven-month jail sentence. On 9 April 2007 Gough was cleared of charges related to his refusal to dress upon being released into Saughton Prison car park in Edinburgh. The ruling judge, Isobel Poole, found that there was no evidence of \"actual alarm or disturbance\", adding \"I can understand this conduct could be considered unpleasant to passers-by had there been any but there is a lack of evidence to that effect.\" In November 2007, Gough lost his appeal against contempt of court convictions for refusing to wear clothes during his 2005 trial and had another 3 months added to his sentence.\n\nIn January 2008, after spending most of the previous 20 months in jail (being rearrested for nudity each time he was released and each time he appeared in court), Gough was released and told that if he went for three months without appearing naked in public he would not be returned to jail for outstanding convictions; two hours later he left the court naked and was immediately re-arrested and subsequently returned to jail. Gough served his time in Barlinnie Prison and was released on 14 October 2008, when he was again immediately arrested for leaving the prison naked. On 14 November, he was cleared of that offence on the grounds of insufficient evidence, but appeared in the dock naked and was rearrested in the foyer of Glasgow Sheriff Court. On 18 December he was convicted of a breach of the peace and sentenced to a further 12 months.\n\nIn July 2009, Gough, once again standing in the dock naked, was jailed at Perth for a further 12 months for breach of the peace. Sheriff MacFarlane was told that the bill for dealing with Gough had cost the public an estimated several hundred thousand pounds. The court heard how Gough had finished a previous jail term at Perth Prison and was released to enjoy freedom for the first time in several months. His freedom lasted less than 30 seconds after he walked naked from the prison door to Edinburgh Road. Gough was also sentenced to four months for refusing to dress before the trial.\n\nWhile in jail in Perth, on 6 July 2009, Stephen Gough received a visit from two members of the French \"Association pour la promotion du naturisme en liberté\" (Association for the Promotion of Naturism in Liberty), which is tracking his activities.\nOn 8 February 2010 Gough was convicted of breach of the peace and contempt of court, charges relating to walking naked in Perth and appearing naked in court. He was sentenced to 21 months imprisonment, his longest sentence to date.\n\nOn 25 November 2010 he was found guilty of: on 26 October 2010, conducting himself in a disorderly manner, standing naked at the gates of Perth Prison, refusing to wear any clothing or otherwise cover his genitals and committing a breach of the peace. He was sentenced to 15 months and 26 days. He is understood to spend his time in prison in solitary confinement. He was released on 20 July 2011, but immediately rearrested after leaving the prison naked, and received another 657-day sentence.\n\nWhen that sentence concluded on 17 July 2012, he left the prison naked again, but this time the police allowed him to go on his way. Three days later, on 20 July, he was rearrested by Fife Police for a breach of the peace in Townhill.\n\nOn 13 September 2012 he was sentenced to five months in prison. He had refused to allow social workers to assess his mental health after he broke down in court during an appearance on 23 August.\n\nReleased in early October 2012, he walked from Saughton to Edale, Derbyshire during October, continuing across the English border down the Pennine Way to Edale by 31 October, with two arrests en route in Hebden Bridge and Halifax. Released on bail, he continued to walk south and was due back in Court on 5 February 2013 to face public order charges. He was arrested in Carterton, Oxfordshire, on suspicion of outraging public decency on 4 December and was then refused bail and spent Christmas 2012 in jail after his application for bail was refused.\n\nIn 2012 Gough won the Nicolás Salmerón Human Rights Award from the Spanish human rights group, Fundación Internacional de Derechos Humanos.\n\nOn 19 June 2013 Gough was imprisoned for 11 months for breaching an antisocial behaviour order (ASBO) on 28 February minutes after it was granted, having recently returned home. Gough was not allowed to appear in court as he refused to wear clothes. In January 2014 he was again jailed for breaching his ASBO this time with a sentence of 16 months . On his release from Winchester Prison he walked out wearing only footwear, once again breaching the ASBO, and in October 2014 he was sentenced to a further two and a half years in prison.\n\nOn 28 October 2014, the European Court of Human Rights ruled that European laws protecting privacy and freedom of expression did not apply to Gough's naked rambling.\n\nOn 14 August 2015 Stephen Gough was released from Winchester prison. At around 6:30am he got into a car inside the prison grounds and was transported from Winchester to Sussex. On his release from prison, \"The Sunday Times\", described him as a previous 'prisoner of conscience.'\n\nDaniel Finkelstein wrote about Gough and his practice of unlimited naturism in \"The Times\" just before Christmas 2015:\n\nIn Finkelstein's opinion: \"The refusal of individuals to abide by court rulings is deeply injurious to a free society based upon law, and we have to protect ourselves against it.\"\n\nA comedic theatrical production invoking Gough's initial naked ramble of 2003–2004 titled \"Who Bares Wins\" was produced by Scottish theatre company Right Lines Productions in 2004. The play, written by Euan Martin and Dave Smith and directed by Mark Saunders, followed the Rambler on his journey through the Scottish countryside and his numerous stints in Scottish prisons.\n\nSet against the backdrop of a remote community eagerly awaiting the arrival of the Rambler for its own reasons, \"Who Bares Wins\" explores society's wide range of attitudes to nudity. The play, starring Ron Emslie and Alyth McCormack, toured Scotland and was seen by Gough himself, without clothes on, at The Universal Hall, Findhorn, in 2004.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28139313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28139313", "title": "Tau Taa Wana", "text": "Tau Taa Wana\n\nThe Tau Taa Wana (sometimes Tau Ta'a Wana or Tao Taa Wana) is a sub-group of the numerous people who speak variants of the Ta'a or Pamona language of Eastern Central Sulawesi, Indonesia. The Tau Taa Wana people referred to themselves as Tao Taa, as in \"tao\" means \"people\" and \"taa\" means \"not\". But most outsiders refers them as To Wana which means \"people in the forest\" because of their social image as a community residing in forests.\n\nThe Tau Taa Wana people are an indigenous tribe who live in small villages or \"lipu's\" around the Bulang and Bongka River. Since the year 2000, the Wana have implemented rotational farming as a means of maintaining themselves. Before this they lived as a nomadic tribe.\n\nThe Tau Taa Wana are currently under threat. This is mainly constituted over land trouble. Since 1994 incursions from the government of Indonesia's transmigration program have affected their traditional ways of life. \"Yayasan Merah Putih\" is a non-profit, NGO in Palu that has been a supporter of Wana rights since 1999 and has also introduced \"sekolah lipu's\" or village schools in order to help the Tau Taa Wana community.\n\n"}
{"id": "22726405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22726405", "title": "Team conflict", "text": "Team conflict\n\nTeam conflict is conflict within a team.\n\nConflicts may be caused by differing goals, values or perceptions of the team members.\n\nLau and Murnighan identify what they call \"faultlines\" as a source of conflicts within groups. As a supplement to traditional approaches of research that focused on diversity characterized by variance of demographic attributes across a population, faultlines are hypothetical dividing lines that split groups into multiple sets of subgroups with each set based on different attributes. These attributes may be demographics, but also may be characteristics such as personal values or personalities. This work builds on work in social identity theory and self-categorization theory, which explains the ways in which individuals favor other individuals with whom they share a common identity; per this model, individuals evaluate members of their subgroups more positively than other members of the larger group, which may lead to conflict when disagreements occur across faultlines. Lau and Murnighan identify three compositional factors for faultlines within a group:\nA group has weak faultlines if subgroups contain different members across sets, and strong faultlines if group members fall in the same groups across sets. For example, a team composed half of young male entry-level employees and half of older female executives has strong faultlines because each member falls in subgroups with the same other members across all three demographic characteristics.\n\nSubsequent work on the impact of these embedded subgroups, called \"factions\" when overlap in subgroups is structured into teams, has found significant negative impacts on group productivity stemming from task conflict, emotional conflict, and behavioral disintegration. Faultlines were found to better predict variance in a variety of group self-perception metrics than traditional metrics of group heterogeneity, including perceptions of team-learning, psychological safety, satisfaction, and expected performance.\n\nIt is important to note that, while the concept of faultlines model may be seen as presenting diversity as a challenge to be overcome, diversity has been found to contribute significantly to team outcomes under certain circumstances. Respectful inclusion of the opinions of minority members can lead to increased creativity as the group incorporates their distinct perspectives. The challenges associated with inclusivity are not insubstantial, and may require strong leadership and norms of tolerance and respect to overcome.\n\n\"Hot conflicts\" have three common symptoms:\n\nAllen C. Amason, of Mississippi State University, studied conflict and its role in decision-making. He stated that there are two kinds of conflict: cognitive — conflict based upon issues, ideas, processes or principles — and affective — conflict based upon personalities, emotions or values.\n\nResearcher Thomas K. Capozzoli (1995) classified conflicts by whether the outcome was constructive or destructive. Conflicts are constructive when people change and grow personally from the conflict; the conflict results in a solution to a problem; the involvement of everyone affected by the conflict is increased; the team becomes more cohesive. Conflicts are destructive when no decision is reached and problem still exists; energy is diverted away from productive activities; the morale of the team members goes down; the team becomes divided.\n\nTeam conflict is common in the workplace where it may hinder productivity and the achievement of team goals. If management of conflict is not effective, it can disrupt group processes, but successfully-managed conflict may benefit the group.\n\nConflict is a normal part of working in teams, because it brings creativity and helps avoid groupthink. However, too much conflict can stop teams for doing their work and certain procedures should be followed to get back on track. Guffey, Rhodes, and Rogin describe their six-step process for dealing with conflict in teams:\n\n"}
{"id": "27528515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27528515", "title": "The Gypsy and the Gentleman", "text": "The Gypsy and the Gentleman\n\nThe Gypsy and the Gentleman is a 1958 British costume drama film directed by Joseph Losey. It stars Melina Mercouri and Keith Michell. \n\nThe beautiful and fiery gypsy Belle (Melina Mercouri) marries Regency playboy Sir Paul Deverill (Keith Michell) for his money. Unbeknownst to her he has squandered his fortune and is desperately in debt. When Deverill's sister Sarah (June Laverick) inherits a fortune, the couple's frustrated plots to steal it from her lead to their eventual demise.\n\n\nDerek Winnert wrote, \"The movie is hardly director Losey’s usual cup of tea, but he tries to get some bite into the gold-digger themes and the 18th century rural England period setting. And the whirlwind Mercouri acts up a storm, certainly ringing that Belle loud and clear.\" \n"}
{"id": "31929560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31929560", "title": "The Queen of Drum", "text": "The Queen of Drum\n\nThe Queen of Drum is a narrative poem by C.S. Lewis published by J.M. Dent in 1969, post-humously by Lewis' trustee and literary adviser Walter Hooper. It is noted for its varying meter, but has been criticised for having a weak plot. It is included in the novel \"Dymer\"\nIn this poignant poem, the Kingdom of Drum is subject to a palace revolution: the top-ranked army general cleanly disposes of the aged king and proclaims himself the replacement monarch. The spirited, young queen - ordered to promptly remarry the general - pretends acquiescence: escaping en route to her place of incarceration.\n\nWith the hue-and-cry being raised in pursuit behind her, the fugitive queen employs her woodland skills to lose herself quickly in the depths of the forest. On the move - and free for the moment - she faces a choice of how best she might remove herself beyond the risk of recapture. \n"}
{"id": "3173903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3173903", "title": "Tlapitzalli", "text": "Tlapitzalli\n\nA tlapitzalli is an aerophone known from pre-Columbian Mesoamerican cultures, particularly the Aztec. It is a form of flute, made of ceramic, wood, clay, or bone. They are most often decorated with abstract designs or images of Aztec deities. The tlapitzalli could be multi-chambered, examples using up to four chambers are known. Tlapitzalli was also a term that was used to refer to the conch shell trumpets used to coordinate attacks during Aztec war ceremonies.\n\nThe name comes from the Nahuatl language.\n\n"}
{"id": "24687848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24687848", "title": "Turks in Jordan", "text": "Turks in Jordan\n\nTurks in Jordan, also known as Jordanian Turks (), are people of Turkish ancestry living in Jordan. These people have had a thriving presence in Jordan since the rule of the Ottoman Empire. Today, there is a minority of about 60,000 people in the country who are the descendants of the Ottoman-Turkish immigrants. In addition to this, there are also 8,262 Turkish citizens who are recent migrants to Jordan.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5103467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5103467", "title": "Turum people", "text": "Turum people\n\nTurum is an ethnic group in South Kurdufan in Sudan. They speak Koalib, a Niger–Congo language. The population of this group likely is below 5,000. \n\n"}
{"id": "49715478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49715478", "title": "UK dating awards", "text": "UK dating awards\n\nUK Dating Awards, shortened to the UKDAs, are annual awards given for excellence in the British dating industry. The UKDAs were first conferred in 2014.\n\nThe nominations in each category are generated by self-entry. Entries are then shortlisted, and winners voted on by a panel of industry experts. Certain categories are voted for in a public vote.\n\nThe Awards are presented at a ceremony at Armoury House in North London. They are supported by the Online Dating Association.\n\nThe Awards were created by Charly Lester, a dating blogger, journalist and former Global Head of Dating for Time Out media group. In 2015 Lester announced the creation of complementary US Dating Awards and European Dating Awards, both of which launched in 2016.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40963243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40963243", "title": "Uruguayans in Mexico", "text": "Uruguayans in Mexico\n\nUruguayan Mexicans are people born in Uruguay who live in Mexico, or Mexican-born people of Uruguayan descent. \n\nThere are lots of Uruguayan-born persons living in Mexico, for a number of reasons. Both countries share the Spanish language; the historical origins of both nations is common (part of the Spanish Empire until the early 19th century); Mexico has a much bigger economy, which attracted Uruguayans in search of opportunities; and, from the political point of view, during the civic-military dictatorship of Uruguay (1973-1985), ideological affinity made Mexico attractive as an exile destination for several Uruguayans.\n\nUruguayan residents in Mexico have their own institutions, for instance, the Consultative Councils in Mexico City, Cancun, Puebla, and Toluca.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31935336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31935336", "title": "Young People's Front for Democracy and Justice", "text": "Young People's Front for Democracy and Justice\n\nYoung People's Front for Democracy and Justice (YPFDJ) (, \"al-Jabhatu l-Shaʻabiyatu lil-Dīmuqrāṭiyatu wāl-ʻIdālah\") is a nationalist Eritrean Diaspora Youth organization branch of their parent organization, the People's Front for Democracy and Justice (PFDJ), that is striving to create a strong, conscious, and nationalist youth movement. Conferences are held throughout the world by local chapters, particularly in North America and Europe. \n\nConferences have included both PFDJ dignitaries, members of the Eritrean government as well as non-Eritrean speakers.\n\n"}
{"id": "1877498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1877498", "title": "Šargija", "text": "Šargija\n\nThe šargija (Cyrillic: Шаргија, ) is a plucked, fretted long necked chordophone used in the folk music of various Balkan countries, including Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Albania, and Serbia.\n\nThe šargija originated in Bosnia and Herzegovina during the rule of Ottoman Empire, and is played by Bosniaks, Albanians, Serbs and Croats. Its original four strings have been increased to six or even seven. The šargija usually accompanies the violin, and has a jangling sound, similar to the Turkish saz.\nThe sharki (or sargija) is a similar instrument as the two-string qiftelia, but with more strings and looking more like a primitive saz. Spelling is sometimes: sarkia or sharki or sharkia. Usually there are three courses of metal strings. The frets are often inlaid metal frets, in a non-western pattern. Body could be made from separate staves, or carved from one piece of wood.\n\nThe šargija is used by the Bosnians in Bosnian root music. The tamburica/tambura is mostly associated with Croats and some Serbs.\n\n"}
