{"id": "57974060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57974060", "title": "Agricultural University of Plovdiv", "text": "Agricultural University of Plovdiv\n\nThe Agricultural University of Plovdiv is a university in Plovdiv, Bulgaria\n\nThe Agricultural University of Plovdiv was founded in 1945 in the city of Plovdiv, Bulgaria. It has strengthened its positions as a national centre of agricultural science and education in Bulgaria.\n\nIn 2006 the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency awarded the Agricultural University – Plovdiv with an institutional accreditation and the highest grade of “Very Good”. The Institution provides training for three academic degrees – Bachelor, Master and PhD. Foreign applicants who have completed the Preparatory training in Bulgarian language may study in Plovdiv.\n\nThe University has the faculties:\n\nThe University is a member of the Balkan Universities Network, which includes select universities in Albania, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Greece, Kosovo, Croatia, Romania, Serbia, Slovenia, Turkey, Macedonia, Moldova, and Montenegro.\n\n"}
{"id": "37920080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37920080", "title": "Asega-bôk", "text": "Asega-bôk\n\nThe Asega-bôk, the name literally translating as \"Book of the Judges\", was part of the legal code for the Rustringian Frisians. The oldest known manuscript version of it, the \"First Riustring Manuscript\" (now in Oldenburg) is, besides the oldest extant text in Frisian, one of the oldest remaining continental codes of Germanic law.\n\nA codex containing a copy of the code, the First Riustring Manuscript, survives in the archives at Oldenburg (24, 1, Ab. 1). While Joseph Bosworth believed it to have been written somewhere between 1212 and 1250 A.D., twentieth-century scholars date it ca. 1300, although some of the materials that it incorporates date to 1050. That version is the oldest surviving work written in Old Frisian, and one of the oldest surviving continental Germanic law codes (the Gulating law, possibly ca. 1150, may be older). The first modern scholarly edition was published in 1961 by Wybren Jan Buma in Dutch; a year later Buma, in cooperation with Germanic law scholar Wilhelm Ebel, published an edition and translation in German .\n\nThe term \"asega\" by itself is translated as \"lawman\" or \"speaker of law\", and refers to the Germanic tradition of having an orator recite law (which did not have to be written) in assembly, a practice attested in the Scandinavian Gutalagen.\n\nOne part of the book is the Old Frisian version of the \"Fifteen Signs before Doomsday\". Buma observed that the Asega-bôk's version has a style, compared to that of other versions, that is particularly Frisian. Although the list matches other versions, a conclusion was appended to it by its unknown author, who took multiple versions of the list as his or her source, in Buma's opinion, although relying mainly upon one. Rolf Bremmer noted that the attribution of the list to Jerome in the Asega-bôk's version was copied from Pseudo-Bede, and that the added conclusion is similar to Comestor's \"Historia scholastica\". The deduction that it was taken from Comestor is what pushes the 20th century dating of the Asega-bôk later than Bosworth's dating, given that Comestor died in 1178.\n\nThe book comprises, in order: \n\nAccording to Johnston, this is one of a great many Frisian legal documents which have a secondary function: the promotion of the ideology of Frisian independence. He identifies three levels of ideology represented in those texts: \"(1) the glorification of the concept of law in general, (2) the assertion of the idea of a Pan-Frisian law, (3) the propagation of the idea of Frisian independence and the promotion of Frisian unity against threats from outside\". The only text in the codex he deems exempt from such ideology is the \"Fifteen Signs before Doomsday\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34084794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34084794", "title": "BBK stock price manipulation incident", "text": "BBK stock price manipulation incident\n\nDuring the 2007 presidential election, there were allegations made about presidential candidate Lee Myung-bak's relationship with a company called BBK. In 1999, Lee would meet Kim, with whom he established BBK and the LKE Bank. Their business enterprise went bankrupt less than a year later. Kim was investigated for alleged involvement in the massive embezzlement and for alleged stock price-manipulation. Kim initially stated that Lee had no involvement in the company, despite allegations of an affair between Lee, the candidate and his sister Kim, then a Los Angeles-based practicing attorney, though subsequently disbarred. Kim allegedly introduced Lee to her brother Kim, a former Merryl Lynch investment banker, meaning Lee's alleged mistress enlisted the aid of her brother in order to make money for, and together with, Lee who allegedly was desperate for campaign funds. Kim Hong-il of the Seoul Central District Prosecutors Office cleared Lee of any wrongdoing, based on Kim's testimony and Lee's denial that he had ever been associated with BBK. That would soon prove to be untrue, as it soon came to light that Lee, in public speeches by him, had publicly admitted that he was the owner of BBK: Three days before the election, an October 2000 video surfaced of Lee delivering a speech to an audience of students at Kwangwoon University, in which he can be seen \"bragging\" that he had founded and directed BBK activities (\"BBK? Yup, that's mine!\"). Two days before the election, the National Assembly appointed a prosecutor and charged him with the task of investigating the matter.\n\nChung Ho-young, as Special Prosecutor in charge of the investigation would soon declare Lee to be innocent of the accusations relating to the alleged fraud and the so-called BBK incident. Critics pointed out that the investigation appeared to have been compromised and that the prosecution may have felt intimidated, seeing as how it chose not to delve any further, likely figuring that Lee would be elected president. Even the fact that Lee was interviewed, rather than interrogated, is identical to the way Clinton was given kid glove treatment. That the particular type of establishment where the Lee interview took place was once known as a kisaeng house did not go well with the public once the news broke, as a kisaeng house refers to a high-end, brothel-like-restaurant establishment where female attendants/entertainers cater to men of power and wealth. In response to public outcry, the special prosecutor's office announced that the initial interview location had been leaked to the media, so was changed at the last minute to a new location—the former kisaeng house, nestled in a secluded, remote location, away from the city, safe from prying eyes. They also declared that they had gone in fully prepared and had more than sufficient time to conduct the interview.\n\nEventually, prosecutors sought a 15-year sentence and a fine of 30 billion won for former BBK owner Kim on charges of stock manipulation and embezzlement. In the final hearing held at the Seoul Central District Court, the prosecutors said Kim, who founded and operated the boiler-room operation is suspected of crimes including embezzlement of W31.9 billion of investors' money, stock manipulation, and the forgery and execution of private documents but had shown no remorse nor repaid his debts.\n\nEarlier, Kim Ki-dong, a prosecutor at the Seoul Central District Prosecutors' Office, said, \"This is a case in which an individual person has made a mockery of the Republic of Korea.\" For spreading \"false\" rumors about Lee on the eve of the presidential election, the Seoul Central District Court convicted Kim of violating the nation's election law, handing down a one-year prison term. He was given another six months for document forgery to back his attacks on Lee. Prosecutors said in a statement that Kim had been changing the story with endless lies throughout the whole investigation process, making it extremely hard for them to draw up the protocol. He even denied their request to use a lie detector. Prosecutors added by saying, \"Kim's defense attorney also made a false statement by saying those who testified against Kim were all liars and committing perjury. This, in fact, is a contradictory statement to the Attorneys-at-Law and attorney ethics\".\n\nIn the end, Kim ended up asserting that President Lee had nothing to do with the BBK scandal and that he had hoped to avoid criminal liability by manipulating the prevailing circumstances in Korea at the time. Kim, who would later get convicted in Korea for his role in the incident and serve an eight-year sentence. Upon his release, he would later allege that Lee was indeed a part owner of BBK and as such had a major involvement in the BBK stock manipulation incident. Kim's allegation is that he lied under pressure from Lee, and as he thought that Lee, as his former partner in crime, would help him avoid being convicted. As turned out to be otherwise, Kim has held numerous news conferences alleging Lee's involvement in the BBK matter.\n\nSome of the prosecutors who worked on the BBK case were promoted under Lee's presidency. Meanwhile, the US federal district court ruled that Kim was not subject to prosecution regarding BBK. Subsequent to that, the very same prosecutors came under investigation and srcutiny for their alleged role in looking the other way, thereby helping to elect candidate Lee as president of South Korea.\n\nAccording to WikiLeaks, Yoo Chong-ha (유종하), the former co-chairman of Lee Myung-bak's presidential election campaign, had requested of Alexander Vershbow, the then American ambassador to South Korea, that the US authorities help delay the extradition of Kim to Korea asnaoight by the Korean government, in order that presidential hopeful Lee Myung-bak's election campaign might better control and effectively contain the controversy relating to Lee's alleged involvement in the BBK embezzlement scandal, there on the eve of the election season.\n\nShin Myung, the alleged writer of the \"fake letter\", returned to South Korea from the USA and turned himself in to the SPO on April 4, 2012.\n\nDAS is a South Korean company involved in the BBK scandal. When allegations of fraud arose as part of the BBK matter, it was originally purported in late December 2011 that the owners of DAS were members of Lee Myung-bak's family, e.g., Lee Sang-Eun (이상은), one of Lee's older brothers, but not Lee himself. The Korean prosecutors at the time announced that Lee did not appear to be the owner of DAS, a position from which they now appear to be backtracking based on mounds of fresh evidence. As of early March of 2018,for instance, it has been alleged that Lee Myung-Bak is, and always has been, the true owner of DAS, which the Korean government itself owns a portion of, received as payment of inheritance taxes owed by Lee's family ). To that end, the Korean prosecution has obtained testimony not only from Kim Baek-Joon, Lee Myung-Bak's decades-long confidant, private secretary, de facto butler and putative errand boy now turning state's evidence, but also from Lee Sang-Deuk, another older brother of Lee's who on Friday, 2 March 2018 testified that the seed money that went into the founding of DAS in the guise of proceeds from the sale of property in Seoul's posh Dogok-dong district, was not his own, but in fact that of his brother Lee Myung-Bak's, with the younger Lee being the actual owner of the Dogok-dong property. The legal implications concerning Lee Myung-Bak's alleged ownership of DAS is far-reaching and has thrown the whole of South Korea into turmoil. For irrespective of the corporate ownership structure of DAS on paper, Lee Myung-Bak would be the true beneficial owner of DAS, making the question of DAS' legal ownership less important than the fact that DAS, for all intents and purposes, has been and is the \"alter ego\" of Lee Myung-Bak's throughout all relevant periods, especially for the purposes of funneling overseas bribes. This further implicates the FCPA (\"Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977\") which allows the U.S. courts to exercise extraterritorial jurisdiction if the proscribed act involves US persons natural or juridical. The latest details of allegations involving BBK, DAS, and Lee implicate Samsung's having bankrolled DAS' legal fees by remitting millions of dollars as payment in DAS' behalf to Akin, Gump, Strauss, Hauer, and Feld, a prominent U.S. law firm representing DAS in a lawsuit brought againat it by Optional Ventures as plaintiff for alleged theft and conversion of funds belonging to Optional Ventures which Kim had embezzled as part of the BBK scandal. Samsung, as widely reported in the Korean press, is alleged to have funneled a substantial amount of money to Lee through said U.S. law firm, Akin Gump, with the aid and involvement of one or more of its overseas U.S. subsidiaries. Under U.S. law, that would constitute a bribery of a foreign official by U.S. persons, natural or juridical, if true. Lee Myung-Bak at the time was not merely a foreign official, but the sitting president of South Korea at the time: Samsung's alleged payment of DAS' legal fees to, and through, Akin, Gump, Strauss, Hauer, and Feld means that everyone is on the hook, ranging from Lee Myung-Bak himself as the recipient of said bribes; to Akin, Gump, for functioning as the conduit as part, and in furtherance, of the conspiracy to violate the FCPA and the attendant conspiracy to violate United States law, which is a separate crime in and of itself; to Samsung and its subsidiaries through which the alleged payments were channeled; to even Lee Kun-Hee, Samsung's purportedly ailing chairman, for his alleged role in giving the greenlight on the paying of bribes (allegedly at least some of it) to Lee in the form of DAS' legal fees; to Korean-American attorney Suk Han Kim, then a partner with Akin, Gump and now with a different firm, for allegedly setting up the whole deal on behalf of Samsung and for the benefit of Lee Myung-Bak. Such FCPA woes are compounded by Samsung's alleged amounts paid to and through Akin, Gump in excess of the legal fees owed by DAS, suggesting there are likely additional U.S. law violations, e.g., money laundering and wire fraud, which are violations under the Stamp Act as provided in the United States Code. While the investigation by the Korean prosecutors into Lee's ownership of DAS and Samsung's alleged overseas bribery is still on-going, and though the focus by the local Korean prosecutors is on domestic Korean aspects only, it may be that there is now sufficient probable cause to warrant a grand jury hearing and an indictment to trigger a massive FCPA investigation by the U.S. Department of Justice.\n\nThe Korean language Korean-American newspaper, \"Sunday Journal\", published an article on December 1, 2011, that the U.S. Federal District Court in Los Angeles rescinded the confiscation order entered against DAS on November 17, 2011.\n\nThe Supreme Court of South Korea officially decided to indict one of the hosts of Naneun Ggomsuda, , for \"false reporting\" of the BBK-related information.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "165508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=165508", "title": "Bashkirs", "text": "Bashkirs\n\nThe Bashkirs (; , \"Başqorttar\", ; , \"Baškiry\", ) are a Turkic ethnic group, indigenous to Bashkortostan and to the historical region of Badzhgard, extending on both sides of the Ural Mountains, in the area where Eastern Europe meets North Asia. Smaller communities of Bashkirs also live in the Republic of Tatarstan, Perm Krai, Chelyabinsk, Orenburg, Tyumen, Sverdlovsk, Kurgan Oblasts and other regions of Russia, as well as in Kazakhstan and other countries.\n\nMost Bashkirs speak the Bashkir language, closely related to Tatar and Kazakh languages which belongs to the Kipchak branch of the Turkic languages and share cultural affinities with the broader Turkic peoples. In religion the Bashkirs are mainly Sunni Muslims of the Hanafi madhhab.\n\nThere are many different theories regarding the etymology of the endonym \"Bashqort\".\n\n\nLinks to extinct branches of Indo-Iranian peoples of the Eurasian Steppe have been proposed by scholars since the early 20th century, while Russian linguist Eugene Helimski pronounces that this \"extinct Indo-Iranian branch\" must be regarded as the \"Andronovo population\". A Bashkir scholar Salavat Gallyamov – citing a philologist Nikolai Dmitriev – indicates that Iranian influence on the Bashkir phonology can be assumed, supporting hypotheses that the Bashkir originally spoke an Indo-Iranian language. \n\nThe first report about the Bashkirs is found in the Chinese chronicles of the Sui dynasty: 45 tribes called by originators Tiele people are listed in the \"Book of Sui\" (636 AD) in \"A Narration about a Tiele people\", Bashkirs being mentioned among them. The Bashkirs are also mentioned in \"Ashkharatsuyts\" (7th century).\n\nStarting from the 9th century, first written reports about Bashkirs by Arab and Persian authors began to appear. Sallam al-Tardzhuman (9th century); Ahmad ibn Fadlan, Al-Masudi, and Abu Zayd al-Balkhi (10th century); Said Al-Andalusi and Muhammad al-Idrisi (12th century); Ibn Sa'id al-Maghribi Yaqut al-Hamawi and Qazvini (13th century); Al-Dimashqi and Abu'l-Fida (14th century) wrote about Bashkirs.\n\nThe first written Arab source on the Bashkirs belongs to the traveler Sallam an at-Tardzhuman. About 840 he visited the country of the Bashkir and roughly described its borders. Abu Zayd al-Balkhi (10th century) described Bashkirs as a people divided into two groups, one inhabiting the Southern Urals, the other living on the Danube plain near the boundaries of Byzantium. Ibn Rustah, a contemporary of Abu Zayd al-Balkhi, observed that Bashkirs were an independent people occupying territories on both sides of the Ural mountains ridge between Volga, Kama, and Tobol Rivers and upstream of the Yaik river.\n\nThe first ethnographic description of the Bashkir was made by Ahmad ibn Fadlan — the ambassador of the Baghdad Caliph Al-Muqtadir to the governor of Volga Bulgaria. He visited the Bashkir lands in 922. The Bashkirs, according to Ibn Fadlan, were a warlike and powerful people, which he and his companions (a total of five thousand people, including military protection) \"bewared... with the greatest threat\". They were engaged in cattle breeding. Bashkirs worshipped twelve gods: winter, summer, rain, wind, trees, people, horses, water, night, day, death, heaven and earth, the one above all being the sky god. Apparently, Islam had already began its spread among the Bashkirs, as one of the ambassadors was a Muslim Bashkir. According to the testimony of Ibn Fadlan, the Bashkirs were Turks, living on the southern slopes of the Urals, and occupying a vast territory up to the Volga. They were bordered by Pechenegs on the south-east, by Bulgars on the west, and by Oghuz Turks on the south.\n\nThe first European sources to mention the Bashkirs were the works of Joannes de Plano Carpini and William of Rubruquis (13th century).\n\nBy 1236, lands of Bashkortostan were incorporated into the empire of Genghis Khan. During the 13th and 14th centuries, all of Bashkortostan was part of the Golden Horde. The brother of Batu-Khan, Sheibani, received the Bashkir lands to the east of the Ural Mountains.\n\nAfter the breakup of the Mongol Empire, the Bashkirs were divided among the Nogai Horde, the Khanate of Kazan and the Khanate of Sibir, founded in the 15th century.\n\nIn the middle of the 16th century, Bashkirs joined the Tsardom of Russia. Charters of Ivan the Terrible to Bashkir tribes became the basis of their contractual relationship with the tsar’s government. Primary documents pertaining to the Bashkirs during this period have been lost, although some are mentioned in the shezhere (family trees) of the Bashkir.\n\nIn the late 16th and early 19th centuries Bashkirs occupied the territory from the left bank of the Volga on the south-west to the riverheads of Tobol in the east, from the river Sylva in the north, to the middle stream of the Yaik in the south, in the Middle and Southern Urals, in Cis-Urals, including Volga territory and Trans-Urals.\n\nThe Bashkirs participated in the 1662–64, 1675–83 and 1704–11 rebellions. In 1676, the Bashkirs rebelled under a leader named Seyid Sadir or 'Seit Sadurov', and the Russian army had great difficulties in ending the rebellion. The Bashkirs rose again in 1707, under Aldar and Kûsyom, on account of ill-treatment by the Russian officials.\n\nThe third insurrection occurred in 1735, at the time of the foundation of Orenburg, and it lasted for six years. From at least the time of Peter the Great there had been talk of pushing southeast toward Persia and India. Ivan Kirillov drew up a plan to build a fort to be called Orenburg at Orsk at the confluence of the Or River and the Ural River southeast of the Urals where the Bashkir, Kalmyk and Kazakh lands join. Work was started at Orsk in 1735, but by 1743 'Orenburg' was moved about 250 km west to its present location. The next planned step was to build a fort on the Aral Sea. This would involve crossing the Bashkir country and then the lands of the Kazakh Lesser Horde, some of whom had recently offered a nominal submission.\n\nKirillov's plan was approved on May 1, 1734 and he was placed in command. He was warned that this would provoke a Bashkir rebellion, but the warnings were ignored. He left Ufa with 2,500 men in 1735 and fighting started on the first of July. The war consisted of many small raids and complex troop movements, so it cannot be easily summarized. For example: In the spring of 1736 Kirillov burned 200 villages, killed 700 in battle and executed 158. An expedition of 773 men left Orenburg in November and lost 500 from cold and hunger. During, at Seiantusa the Bashkir planned to massacre sleeping Russians. The ambush failed. One thousand villagers, including women and children, were put to the sword and another 500 driven into a storehouse and burned to death. Raiding parties then went out and burned about 50 villages and killed another 2,000. Eight thousand Bashkirs attacked a Russian camp and killed 158, losing 40 killed and three prisoners who were promptly hanged. Rebellious Bashkirs raided loyal Bashkirs. Leaders who submitted were sometimes fined one horse per household and sometimes hanged.\n\nBashkirs fought on both sides (40% of 'Russian' troops in 1740). Numerous leaders rose and fell. The oddest was Karasakal or Blackbeard who pretended to have 82,000 men on the Aral Sea and had his followers proclaim him 'Khan of Bashkiria'. His nose had been partly cut off and he had only one ear. Such mutilations are standard Imperial punishments. The Kazakhs of the Little Horde intervened on the Russian side, then switched to the Bashkirs and then withdrew. Kirillov died of disease during the war and there were several changes of commander. All this was at the time of Empress Anna of Russia and the Russo-Turkish War (1735–1739).\n\nAlthough the history of the 1735 Bashkir War cannot be easily summarized, its results can be.\n\nLater, in 1774, the Bashkirs, under the leadership of Salavat Yulayev, supported Pugachev's Rebellion. In 1786, the Bashkirs achieved tax-free status; and in 1798 Russia formed an irregular Bashkir army from among them. Residual land ownership disputes continued.\n\nAfter the 1917 revolution are All-Bashkir Qoroltays (conventions) on which a decision on the need to create a national federal republic within Russia. As a result, 15 November 1917 Bashkir Regional (central) Shuro (Council) proclaims the establishment in areas with predominantly Bashkir population of Orenburg, Perm, Samara, Ufa provinces territorial and national autonomy Bashkurdistan.\n\nIn December 1917, delegates to the All-Bashkir (constituent) Congress, representing the interests of the population edge of all nationalities, voted unanimously for the resolution (Farman #2) of the Bashkir regional Shuro the proclamation of national-territorial autonomy (of the republic) Bashkurdistan. The congress was formed the government of Bashkurdistan, the Pre-parliament – Kese-Qoroltay and other bodies of power and administration, and decisions were made on how to proceed.\n\nIn March 1919, based on the agreements of the Russian Government with the Bashkir Government was formed Bashkir Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republic.\n\nOctober 11, 1990 the Supreme Council of the Republic was proclaimed the Declaration of State Sovereignty. March 31, 1992 Bashkortostan signed a federal agreement on the delimitation of powers and areas of jurisdiction between the authorities of the Russian Federation and the authorities of the sovereign republics in its composition and its Annex of the Republic of Bashkortostan, which determined the nature of the contractual relations between the Republic of Bashkortostan and the Russian Federation.\n\nRegarding Y-DNA haplogroups genetic studies have revealed that the dominant frequency for Bashkir males is for haplogroup R1b (R-M269 and R-M73) which is, on average, 47.6%. The Y-DNA haplogroup R-M269 (R1b1a2) is dominant among the Basques in western Europe. Following are the haplogroup R1a at the average frequency of 26,5%, and haplogroup N1c at 17%. In lower frequencies were also found haplogroups J2, C, O, E1b, G2a, L, N1b, I, T. The main branch of R1a in Bashkirs is Z93, specifically Z2125, which peaks in Central Asia, among Bashkirs at 31%. Despite the Bashkirs being Turkic peoples, the haplogroups R1b and R1a is mostly linked with Indo-Europeans.\n\nMost mtDNA haplogroups found in Bashkirs (60–65%) consist of the haplogroups G, D, С, Z and F; which are lineages characteristic of East Eurasian populations. On the other hand, mtDNA haplogroups characteristic of European and Near Eastern populations were also found in significant amounts (35–40%).\n\nAccording to the study Suslova et al. 2015: \"The Bashkirs appear close to Mongoloids in allele and haplotype distribution. However, Bashkirs cannot be labelled either as typical Mongoloids or as Caucasoids. Thus, Bashkirs possess some alleles and haplotypes frequent in Mongoloids, which supports the Turkic impact on Bashkir ethnogenesis, but also possess the AH 8.1 haplotype, which could evidence an ancient Caucasoid population that took part in their ethnic formation... Bashkirs showed no features of populations with a substantial Finno-Ugric component, for example Chuvashes or Russian Saami. This disputes the commonly held belief of a Finno-Ugric origin for Bashkirs...\"\n\nThe Bashkirs are characterized by East-Asian admixture, which dates from the 13th century, according to an analysis of the identical-by-descent segments.\n\nBashkir language is a Turkic language of the Kypchak group. Main dialects: Southern, Eastern and North-Western. Distributed in the territory of Historical Bashkortostan.\n\nThe Russian census of 2010 recorded 1,152,404 Bashkir speakers in the Russian Federation. Bashkir language is native to 1 133 339 Bashkirs (71,7% of the total number of Bashkirs, reporting mother tongue). The Tatar language is called native 230 846 Bashkirs (14,6%). Russian language is native to 216 066 Bashkir (13,7%). Most Bashkirs are bilingual in Bashkir and Russian.\n\nThe Bashkir tribes in ancient times used the Old Turkic alphabet. After the adoption of Islam, which began in the 10th century and lasted for several centuries, the Bashkirs began to use the Arabic alphabet. Since the mid-18th century begins the formation of the Bashkir national literature. In 1923, the approved Bashkir alphabet based on Arabic alphabet. In 1929 appears the Bashkir alphabet based on the Latin alphabet (yanalif). In 1940 introduced the alphabet based on Cyrillic alphabet. The modern Bashkir alphabet consists of 42 letters.\n\nThe ethnic Bashkir population is estimated at roughly 2 million people (2009 SIL Ethnologue). The 2010 Russian census recorded 1,584,554 ethnic Bashkirs in Russia, of which 1,172,287 Bashkirs live in Bashkortostan (29.5% of the total population of the republic).\n\nThe Bashkirs traditionally practiced agriculture, cattle-rearing and bee-keeping. The half-nomadic Bashkirs wandered either the mountains or the steppes, herding cattle. Wild-hive beekeeping can be named as a separate component of the most ancient culture which is practiced in the same Burzyansky District near to the Kapova Cave.\n\nTraditional Bashkir dish bishbarmaq is prepared from boiled meat and halma (the kind of noodles), sprinkled with herbs flavored with onions and some qorot (young dry cheese). This is another notable feature of the Bashkir cuisine: dishes often served dairy products — rare party without qorot or qaymaq (sour cream). Most of the dishes Bashkir cuisine is nutritious and easy to prepare.\n\nA series of epic Bashkir works called Ural-batyr and Akbuzat keeps layers of ancient mythology and have parallels with the Epic of Gilgamesh, Rigveda, and Avesta. Their plots concern the struggle of heroes against demonic forces. A peculiarity of them is that events and ceremonies described there may reference a specific geographical place; the Shulgan-Tash cave and its vicinity.\n\nIn the pre-Islamic period the Bashkirs were followers of Tengrianism.\n\nBashkirs began to convert to Islam in the 10th century. Arab traveler Ibn Fadlan in 921 met some of the Bashkirs, who were Muslims. The final assertion of Islam among the Bashkirs occurred in the 1320s and 1330s (Golden Horde times). On the territory of Bashkortostan preserved the burial place of the first Imam of Historical Bashkortostan — , 14th-century building. In 1788 Catherine the Great established the \"\" in Ufa, which was the first Muslim administrative center in Russia.\n\nIn yearly 1990s began the religious revival among the Bashkirs. According to Talgat Tadzhuddin there are more than 1,000 mosques in Bashkortostan in 2010.\n\nThe Bashkirs are predominantly Sunni Muslims of the Hanafi madhhab.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32295868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32295868", "title": "Bushong language", "text": "Bushong language\n\nBushong (Bushoong) is a Bantu language of the Kasai region of Democratic Republic of the Congo. It was the language of the Kuba Kingdom.\n\nAlternative names are \"Bushongo, Busoong, Shongo, Ganga, Kuba, Mbale, Bamongo, Mongo\".\n\nDialects are said to be \"Djembe, Ngende, Ngombe (Ngombia), Ngongo, Pianga (Panga, Tsobwa, Shobwa, Shoba).\" Pianga (Shuwa) is a distinct language, in the Tetela group.\n\nThe Bushong have a patron–client relationship with the Kasai Twa.\n\n"}
{"id": "19851291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19851291", "title": "Canadians", "text": "Canadians\n\nCanadians () are people identified with the country of Canada. This connection may be residential, legal, historical or cultural. For most Canadians, several (or all) of these connections exist and are collectively the source of their being \"Canadian\".\n\nCanada is a multilingual and multicultural society home to people of many different ethnic, religious, and national origins, with the majority of the population made up of Old World immigrants and their descendants. Following the initial period of French and then the much larger British colonization, different waves (or peaks) of immigration and settlement of non-indigenous peoples took place over the course of nearly two centuries and continue today. Elements of Indigenous, French, British, and more recent immigrant customs, languages, and religions have combined to form the culture of Canada, and thus a Canadian identity. Canada has also been strongly influenced by its linguistic, geographic, and economic neighbour—the United States.\n\nCanadian independence from the United Kingdom grew gradually over the course of many years since the formation of the Canadian Confederation in 1867. World War I and World War II in particular, gave rise to a desire among Canadians to have their country recognized as a fully-fledged sovereign state with a distinct citizenship. Legislative independence was established with the passage of the \"Statute of Westminster 1931\", the Canadian \"Citizenship Act\" of 1946 took effect on January 1, 1947, and full sovereignty was achieved with the patriation of the constitution in 1982. Canada's nationality law closely mirrored that of the United Kingdom. Legislation since the mid-20th century represents Canadians' commitment to multilateralism and socioeconomic development.\n\nAs of 2010, Canadians make up only 0.5% of the world's total population, having relied upon immigration for population growth and social development. Approximately 41% of current Canadians are first- or second-generation immigrants, and 20% of Canadian residents in the 2000s were not born in the country. Statistics Canada projects that, by 2031, nearly one-half of Canadians above the age of 15 will be foreign-born or have one foreign-born parent. Indigenous peoples, according to the 2011 Canadian Census, numbered at 1,400,685 or 4.3% of the country's 33,476,688 population.\n\nWhile the first contact with Europeans and indigenous peoples in Canada had occurred a century or more before, the first group of permanent settlers were the French, who founded the New France settlements, in present-day Quebec and Ontario; and Acadia, in present-day Nova Scotia and New Brunswick, during the early part of the 17th century.\n\nApproximately 100 Irish-born families would settle the Saint Lawrence Valley by 1700, assimilating into the \"Canadien\" population and culture. During the 18th and 19th century; immigration westward (to the area known as Rupert's Land) was carried out by \"Voyageurs\"; French settlers working for the North West Company; and by British settlers (English and Scottish) representing the Hudson's Bay Company, coupled with independent entrepreneurial woodsman called \"Coureur des bois\". This arrival of newcomers led to the creation of the Métis, an ethnic group of mixed European and First Nations parentage.\n\nThe British conquest of New France was preceded by a small number of Germans and Swedes who settled alongside the Scottish in Port Royal, Nova Scotia, while some Irish immigrated to the Colony of Newfoundland. In the wake of the British Conquest of 1760 and the Expulsion of the Acadians, many families from the British colonies in New England moved over into Nova Scotia and other colonies in Canada, where the British made farmland available to British settlers on easy terms. More settlers arrived during and after the American Revolutionary War, when approximately 60,000 United Empire Loyalists fled to British North America, a large portion of whom settled in New Brunswick. After the War of 1812, British (including British army regulars), Scottish, and Irish immigration was encouraged throughout Rupert's Land, Upper Canada and Lower Canada.\n\nBetween 1815 and 1850, some 800,000 immigrants came to the colonies of British North America, mainly from the British Isles as part of the Great Migration of Canada. These new arrivals included some Gaelic-speaking Highland Scots displaced by the Highland Clearances to Nova Scotia. The Irish Potato Famine of the 1840s significantly increased the pace of Irish immigration to Prince Edward Island and the Province of Canada, with over 35,000 distressed individuals landing in Toronto in 1847 and 1848. Descendants of Francophone and Anglophone northern Europeans who arrived in the 17th, 18th, and 19th centuries are often referred to as Old Stock Canadians.\n\nBeginning in the late 1850s, the immigration of Chinese into the Colony of Vancouver Island and Colony of British Columbia peaked with the onset of the Fraser Canyon Gold Rush. The \"Chinese Immigration Act\" eventually placed a head tax on all Chinese immigrants, in hopes of discouraging Chinese immigration after completion of the Canadian Pacific Railway.\nThe population of Canada has consistently risen, doubling approximately every 40 years, since the establishment of the Canadian Confederation in 1867. In the mid-to-late 19th century, Canada had a policy of assisting immigrants from Europe, including an estimated 100,000 unwanted \"Home Children\" from Britain. Block settlement communities were established throughout western Canada between the late 19th and early 20th centuries. Some were planned and others were spontaneously created by the settlers themselves. Canada was now receiving a large number of European immigrants, predominantly Italians, Germans, Scandinavians, Dutch, Poles, and Ukrainians.\nLegislative restrictions on immigration (such as the Continuous journey regulation and \"Chinese Immigration Act\") that had favoured British and other European immigrants were amended in the 1960s, opening the doors to immigrants from all parts of the world. While the 1950s had still seen high levels of immigration by Europeans, by the 1970s immigrants were increasingly Chinese, Indian, Vietnamese, Jamaican, and Haitian. During the late 1960s and early 1970s, Canada received many American Vietnam War draft dissenters. Throughout the late 1980s and 1990s, Canada's growing Pacific trade brought with it a large influx of South Asians, who tended to settle in British Columbia. Immigrants of all backgrounds tend to settle in the major urban centres. The Canadian public, as well as the major political parties, are tolerant of immigrants.\n\nThe majority of illegal immigrants come from the southern provinces of the People's Republic of China, with Asia as a whole, Eastern Europe, Caribbean, Africa, and the Middle East. Estimates of numbers of illegal immigrants range between 35,000 and 120,000.\n\nCanadian citizenship is typically obtained by birth in Canada or by birth or adoption abroad when at least one biological parent or adoptive parent is a Canadian citizen who was born in Canada or naturalized in Canada (and did not receive citizenship by being born outside of Canada to a Canadian citizen). It can also be granted to a permanent resident who lives in Canada for three out of four years and meets specific requirements. Canada established its own nationality law in 1946, with the enactment of the \"Canadian Citizenship Act\" which took effect on January 1, 1947. The \"Immigration and Refugee Protection Act\" was passed by the Parliament of Canada in 2001 as Bill C-11, which replaced the \"Immigration Act\" of 1976 as the primary federal legislation regulating immigration. Prior to the conferring of legal status on Canadian citizenship, Canada's naturalization laws consisted of a multitude of Acts beginning with the \"Immigration Act\" of 1910.\n\nAccording to Citizenship and Immigration Canada, there are three main classifications for immigrants: \"Family class\" (persons closely related to Canadian residents), \"Economic class\" (admitted on the basis of a point system that accounts for age, health and labour-market skills required for cost effectively inducting the immigrants into Canada's labour market) and \"Refugee class\" (those seeking protection by applying to remain in the country by way of the Canadian immigration and refugee law). In 2008, there were 65,567 immigrants in the family class, 21,860 refugees, and 149,072 economic immigrants amongst the 247,243 total immigrants to the country. Canada resettles over one in 10 of the world's refugees and has one of the highest per-capita immigration rates in the world.\n\nAs of a 2010 report by the Asia Pacific Foundation of Canada, there were 2.8 million Canadian citizens abroad. This represents about 8% of the total Canadian population. Of those living abroad, the United States, Hong Kong, the United Kingdom, Taiwan, China, Lebanon, United Arab Emirates, and Australia have the largest Canadian diaspora. Canadians in the United States constitute the greatest single expatriate community at over 1 million in 2009, representing 35.8% of all Canadians abroad. Under current Canadian law, Canada does not restrict dual citizenship, but Passport Canada encourages its citizens to travel abroad on their Canadian passport so that they can access Canadian consular services.\n\nAccording to the 2016 census, the country's largest self-reported ethnic origin is Canadian (accounting for 32% of the population), followed by English (18.3%), Scottish (13.9%), French (13.6%), Irish (13.4%), German (9.6%), Chinese (5.1%), Italian (4.6%), First Nations (4.4%), Indian (4.0%), and Ukrainian (3.9%). There are 600 recognized First Nations governments or bands, encompassing a total of 1,525,565 people. Canada's indigenous population is growing at almost twice the national rate, and four percent of Canada's population claimed an indigenous identity in 2006. Another 22.3 percent of the population belonged to a non-indigenous visible minority. In 2016, the largest visible minority groups were South Asian (5.6%), Chinese (5.1%), and Black (3.5%). Between 2011 and 2016, the visible minority population rose by 18.4 percent. In 1961, less than two percent of Canada's population (about 300,000 people) were members of visible minority groups. Indigenous peoples are not considered a visible minority under the \"Employment Equity Act\", and this is the definition that Statistics Canada also uses.\nCanadian culture is primarily a Western culture, with influences by First Nations and other cultures. It is a product of its ethnicities, languages, religions, political, and legal system(s). Canada has been shaped by waves of migration that have combined to form a unique blend of art, cuisine, literature, humour, and music. Today, Canada has a diverse makeup of nationalities and constitutional protection for policies that promote multiculturalism rather than cultural assimilation. In Quebec, cultural identity is strong, and many French-speaking commentators speak of a Quebec culture distinct from English Canadian culture. However, as a whole, Canada is a cultural mosaic: a collection of several regional, indigenous, and ethnic subcultures.\n\nCanadian government policies such as official bilingualism; publicly funded health care; higher and more progressive taxation; outlawing capital punishment; strong efforts to eliminate poverty; strict gun control; and, most recently, legalizing same-sex marriage and cannabis are social indicators of Canada's political and cultural values. American media and entertainment are popular, if not dominant, in English Canada; conversely, many Canadian cultural products and entertainers are successful in the United States and worldwide. The Government of Canada has also influenced culture with programs, laws, and institutions. It has created Crown corporations to promote Canadian culture through media and has also tried to protect Canadian culture by setting legal minimums on Canadian content.\nCanadian culture has historically been influenced by European culture and traditions, especially British and French, and by its own indigenous cultures. Most of Canada's territory was inhabited and developed later than other European colonies in the Americas, with the result that themes and symbols of pioneers, trappers, and traders were important in the early development of the Canadian identity. First Nations played a critical part in the development of European colonies in Canada, particularly for their role in assisting exploration of the continent during the North American fur trade. The British conquest of New France in the mid-1700s brought a large Francophone population under British Imperial rule, creating a need for compromise and accommodation. The new British rulers left alone much of the religious, political, and social culture of the French-speaking \"habitants\", guaranteeing through the \"Quebec Act\" of 1774 the right of the \"Canadiens\" to practise the Catholic faith and to use French civil law (now Quebec law).\n\nThe \"Constitution Act, 1867\" was designed to meet the growing calls of Canadians for autonomy from British rule, while avoiding the overly strong decentralization that contributed to the Civil War in the United States. The compromises made by the Fathers of Confederation set Canadians on a path to bilingualism, and this in turn contributed to an acceptance of diversity.\n\nThe Canadian Forces and overall civilian participation in the First World War and Second World War helped to foster Canadian nationalism, however, in 1917 and 1944, conscription crisis' highlighted the considerable rift along ethnic lines between Anglophones and Francophones. As a result of the First and Second World Wars, the Government of Canada became more assertive and less deferential to British authority. With the gradual loosening of political ties to the United Kingdom and the modernization of Canadian immigration policies, 20th-century immigrants with African, Caribbean and Asian nationalities have added to the Canadian identity and its culture. The multiple-origins immigration pattern continues today, with the arrival of large numbers of immigrants from non-British or non-French backgrounds.\n\nMulticulturalism in Canada was adopted as the official policy of the government during the premiership of Pierre Trudeau in the 1970s and 1980s. The Canadian government has often been described as the instigator of multicultural ideology, because of its public emphasis on the social importance of immigration. Multiculturalism is administered by the Department of Citizenship and Immigration and reflected in the law through the \"Canadian Multiculturalism Act\" and section 27 of the \"Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms\".\n\nCanada as a nation is religiously diverse, encompassing a wide range of groups, beliefs and customs. The preamble to the \"Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms\" references \"God\", and the monarch carries the title of \"Defender of the Faith\". However, Canada has no official religion, and support for religious pluralism (Freedom of religion in Canada) is an important part of Canada's political culture. With the role of Christianity in decline, it having once been central and integral to Canadian culture and daily life, commentators have suggested that Canada has come to enter a post-Christian period in a secular state, with irreligion on the rise. The majority of Canadians consider religion to be unimportant in their daily lives, but still believe in God. The practice of religion is now generally considered a private matter throughout society and within the state.\n\nThe 2011 Canadian census reported that 67.3% of Canadians identify as being Christians; of this number, Catholics make up the largest group, accounting for 38.7 percent of the population. The largest Protestant denomination is the United Church of Canada (accounting for 6.1% of Canadians); followed by Anglicans (5.0%), and Baptists (1.9%). About 23.9% of Canadians declare no religious affiliation, including agnostics, atheists, humanists, and other groups. The remaining are affiliated with non-Christian religions, the largest of which is Islam (3.2%), followed by Hinduism (1.5%), Sikhism (1.4%), Buddhism (1.1%), and Judaism (1.0%).\n\nBefore the arrival of European colonists and explorers, First Nations followed a wide array of mostly animistic religions. During the colonial period, the French settled along the shores of the Saint Lawrence River, specifically Latin Rite Roman Catholics, including a number of Jesuits dedicated to converting indigenous peoples; an effort that eventually proved successful. The first large Protestant communities were formed in the Maritimes after the British conquest of New France, followed by American Protestant settlers displaced by the American Revolution. The late nineteenth century saw the beginning of a substantive shift in Canadian immigration patterns. Large numbers of Irish and southern European immigrants were creating new Roman Catholic communities in English Canada. The settlement of the west brought significant Eastern Orthodox immigrants from Eastern Europe and Mormon and Pentecostal immigrants from the United States.\n\nThe earliest documentation of Jewish presence in Canada occurs in the 1754 British Army records from the French and Indian War. In 1760, General Jeffrey Amherst, 1st Baron Amherst attacked and won Montreal for the British. In his regiment there were several Jews, including four among his officer corps, most notably Lieutenant Aaron Hart who is considered the father of Canadian Jewry. The Islamic, Jains, Sikh, Hindu, and Buddhist communities—although small—are as old as the nation itself. The 1871 Canadian Census (first \"Canadian\" national census) indicated thirteen Muslims among the populace, with approximately 5000 Sikh by 1908. The first Canadian mosque was constructed in Edmonton, in 1938, when there were approximately 700 Muslims in Canada. Buddhism first arrived in Canada when Japanese immigrated during the late 19th century. The first Japanese Buddhist temple in Canada was built in Vancouver in 1905. The influx of immigrants in the late 20th century, with Sri Lankan, Japanese, Indian and Southeast Asian customs, has contributed to the recent expansion of the Jain, Sikh, Hindu, and Buddhist communities.\n\nA multitude of languages are used by Canadians, with English and French (the official languages) being the mother tongues of approximately 56% and 21% of Canadians, respectively. As of the 2016 Census, just over 7.3 million Canadians listed a non-official language as their mother tongue. Some of the most common non-official first languages include Chinese (1,227,680 first-language speakers), Punjabi (501,680), Spanish (458,850), Tagalog (431,385), Arabic (419,895), German (384,040), and Italian (375,645). Less than one percent of Canadians (just over 250,000 individuals) can speak an indigenous language. About half this number (129,865) reported using an indigenous language on a daily basis. Additionally, Canadians speak several sign languages; the number of speakers is unknown of the most spoken ones, American Sign Language (ASL) and Quebec Sign Language (LSQ), as it is of Maritime Sign Language and Plains Sign Talk. There are only 47 speakers of the Inuit sign language Inuiuuk.\n\nEnglish and French are recognized by the Constitution of Canada as official languages. All federal government laws are thus enacted in both English and French, with government services available in both languages. Two of Canada's territories give official status to indigenous languages. In Nunavut, Inuktitut and Inuinnaqtun are official languages, alongside the national languages of English and French, and Inuktitut is a common vehicular language in territorial government. In the Northwest Territories, the \"Official Languages Act\" declares that there are eleven different languages: Chipewyan, Cree, English, French, Gwich'in, Inuinnaqtun, Inuktitut, Inuvialuktun, North Slavey, South Slavey, and Tłįchǫ. Multicultural media are widely accessible across the country and offer specialty television channels, newspapers, and other publications in many minority languages.\n\nIn Canada, as elsewhere in the world of European colonies, the frontier of European exploration and settlement tended to be a linguistically diverse and fluid place, as cultures using different languages met and interacted. The need for a common means of communication between the indigenous inhabitants and new arrivals for the purposes of trade, and (in some cases) intermarriage, led to the development of Mixed languages. Languages like Michif, Chinook Jargon, and Bungi creole tended to be highly localized and were often spoken by only a small number of individuals who were frequently capable of speaking another language. Plains Sign Talk—which functioned originally as a trade language used to communicate internationally and across linguistic borders—reached across Canada, the United States, and into Mexico.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52356049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52356049", "title": "Cannabis in Lebanon", "text": "Cannabis in Lebanon\n\nCannabis in Lebanon is illegal. However, large amounts are grown within the country, and personal use as long as not in public is not a major issue.\n\nThe production of hashish was prohibited in Lebanon in 1926, during the era of the French Mandate for Syria and the Lebanon. The cultivation of cannabis itself was forbidden in 1992, under pressure from the United States.\n\nBy 2001 poverty had pressed many farmers to return to growing cannabis under the protection of Hezbollah. By 2002, production had reached 37,000 acres: double what it was the year prior.\n"}
{"id": "41751420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41751420", "title": "Childhood in early modern Scotland", "text": "Childhood in early modern Scotland\n\nChildhood in early modern Scotland includes all aspects of the lives of children, from birth to adulthood, between the early sixteenth century and the mid-eighteenth century. This period corresponds to the early modern period in Europe, beginning with the Renaissance and Reformation and ending with the beginning of industrialisation and the Enlightenment in the mid-eighteenth century.\n\nBirth was a predominately female event, although fathers were often present or nearby to assert their paternity. Before the Reformation, baptism was a means of creating wider spiritual kinship with godparents, but in the reformed Kirk it was used to strengthening relationships between the child and the parents, particularly the father. Among the elite of Highland society, there was a system of fosterage that created similar links to those of godparenthood. It was common, particularly among richer families, to employ a wet-nurse to care for the child. The primary responsibility for bringing up young children fell on the mother.\n\nFor many the early teens were marked by moving away from home to undertake life-cycle service. Boys might be apprenticed to a trade, or become agricultural servants. Girls might go into domestic or agricultural service. For those higher up in society and increasingly for those lower down, this might be after a period of schooling. For the wealthy and sometimes for the very talented, they might move on to one of Scotland's universities. The Humanist concern with widening education that had become significant in the Renaissance was shared by Protestant reformers. Boys might attend the grammar schools or ordinary parish schools. There were also large number of unregulated \"adventure schools\". By the late seventeenth century there was a largely complete network of parish schools in the Lowlands, but in the Highlands basic education was still lacking in many areas. The widespread belief in the limited intellectual and moral capacity of women, vied with a desire, intensified after the Reformation, for women to take personal moral responsibility, particularly as wives and mothers. They were frequently taught reading, sewing and knitting, but not writing and much lower literacy rates.\n\nAlthough sources are limited, Scotland may have had a higher infant mortality rate than England, where rates were higher than in many modern Third-World countries, with 160 children in 1,000 dying in their first year. There was considerable concern over the safety of mother and child in birth. Although childbirth was a predominantly female event, with neighbours and midwives in support, the father was often present in or near the birthing chamber to assert or admit his paternity. Before the Reformation, baptism was a means of creating wider spiritual kinship with godparents, but in the reformed Kirk godparents were abolished and it was used as a means of strengthening the \"natural\" relationships with the parents, particularly the father, who would have the primary responsibility for the moral and spiritual education of the child. Among the elite of Highland society, there existed a system of fosterage that created similar links to godparenthood, with children being sent to the households of other major families to facilitate the creation of mutual bonds, and which continued into the seventeenth century.\n\nFollowing birth it was common, particularly among richer families, to employ a wet-nurse to care for the child, sometimes living in with the family. In late seventeenth century Edinburgh 6.8 per cent of families employed such a nurse and they were most common among wealthier middle-class households. Few sources give an insight into the experiences of young children in this period. Some parents played with their children and parents demonstrated grief at their loss. The primary responsibility for bringing up young children fell on the mother. For older children the major duty of parents was, according to the Kirk, to ensure the spiritual development of the child, with fathers leading daily family prayers, but it is not clear how widely these practices were adopted. After the Reformation, first communion probably served as a rite of puberty, marking the transition to sit beside adults at the kirk boards for the first time.\n\nHistorians debate whether early modern individuals experienced a period of youth in the modern sense. For many the early teens were marked by moving away from home to undertake life-cycle service, which was necessary so that they could build up skills and capital that would enable them to marry and create a separate household. Lowland Scotland was part of the pattern of late marriage for both men and women (between the mid and late 20s), with a relatively large proportion of the population remaining unmarried. In the Highland and Islands marriage ages may have been lower. Lower down in society boys might be apprenticed to a trade, or become agricultural servants. Girls might go into domestic or agricultural service. For those higher up in society and increasingly for those lower down, this might be after a period of schooling. For the wealthy and sometimes for the very talented, they might move on to one of Scotland's universities. It is clear that football was played by sixteenth-century schoolboys, and probably servants and apprentices, because of widespread attempts to ban it.\n\nThe Humanist concern with widening education that had become significant in the Renaissance was shared by Protestant reformers. For boys, in the burghs the old schools were maintained, with the song schools and a number of new foundations becoming reformed grammar schools or ordinary parish schools. There were also large number of unregulated \"adventure schools\", which sometimes fulfilled a local needs and sometimes took pupils away from the official schools. At their best, the curriculum included catechism, Latin, French, Classical literature and sports. A series of acts attempted to establish schools in every parish from 1616. By the late seventeenth century there was a largely complete network of parish schools in the Lowlands, but in the Highlands basic education was still lacking in many areas.\n\nThe widespread belief in the limited intellectual and moral capacity of women, vied with a desire, intensified after the Reformation, for women to take personal moral responsibility, particularly as wives and mothers. In Protestantism this necessitated an ability to learn and understand the catechism and even to be able to independently read the Bible, but most commentators, even those that tended to encourage the education of girls, thought they should not receive the same academic education as boys. In the lower ranks of society, they benefited from the expansion of the parish schools system that took place after the Reformation, but were usually outnumbered by boys, often taught separately, for a shorter time and to a lower level. They were frequently taught reading, sewing and knitting, but not writing. Female illiteracy rates based on signatures among female servants were around 90 per cent, from the late seventeenth to the early eighteenth centuries and perhaps 85 per cent for women of all ranks by 1750, compared with 35 per cent for men. Among the nobility there were many educated and cultured women, of which Mary, Queen of Scots is the most obvious example.\n"}
{"id": "25768524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25768524", "title": "Climate Central", "text": "Climate Central\n"}
{"id": "56720263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56720263", "title": "Climate and energy", "text": "Climate and energy\n\nThe correlation between climate and energy rests on known causal relationships between human population growth, rising energy consumption and land use and the resulting greenhouse gas emissions and climate change.\n\nThe concern for climate change control and mitigation has consequently spurred policy makers and scientists to treat energy use and global climate as an inextricable nexus with effects also going in reverse direction and create various initiatives, institutions and think tanks for a high-level treatment of the relationships:\n\n"}
{"id": "43141477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43141477", "title": "Corruption in Croatia", "text": "Corruption in Croatia\n\nIn order to qualify as a member of the European Union, Croatia has taken measures to combat corruption. The legal and institutional framework as well as government agencies are addressing the issue of corruption in a much larger scale, and the inter-agency cooperation for corruption prevention has also increased. USKOK has prosecuted 2,000 individuals and achieved a 95% conviction rate (2012), including former Prime Minister Ivo Sanader.\n\nSeveral civil servants in the Croatian Privatization Fund, the Zagreb land registry and the Zagreb taxation headquarters, among others, were arrested on charges of bribery. Moreover, several high-profile corruption cases have come to light, including investigations of a former defence minister and a former deputy prime minister.\n\nA 2013 Global Corruption Barometer report of TI shows that 29% of respondents believe that level of corruption decreased in Croatia.\n\nTransparency International's 2017 Corruption Perception Index ranks the country 57th place out of 180 countries. This presents a slip in Croatia's ratings compared to previous years.\n\n"}
{"id": "16176294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16176294", "title": "Curadmír", "text": "Curadmír\n\nThe Curadmír or Champion's Portion was an ancient custom referred to in early Irish literature, whereby the warrior acknowledged as the bravest present at a feast was given precedence and awarded the choicest cut of meat. This was often disputed violently. The custom appears most often in the legends of the Ulster Cycle. It is parallelled by historical customs of the ancient Celts of continental Europe, as recorded by classical writers.\n\nThe Ulster Cycle saga \"Scéla Mucce Meic Dá Thó\" (\"The Story of Mac Dá Tho's Pig\") features a dispute over the Champion's Portion between warriors of Ulster and Connacht who are guests at a feast in Leinster. They dispute it by boasting of their previous heroic deeds, and eventually the Connacht hero Cet mac Mágach is acknowledged as the bravest man present. Just as he is about to carve the pig, the Ulster hero Conall Cernach arrives, and his boasts force Cet to give way to him. But he claims that Conall would have had to give way to his brother Anlúan had he been there. Conall responds by tossing Cet Anlúan's freshly severed head. Conall carves the pig, but gives the Connachtmen such a small portion that battle breaks out between them.\n\nAnother Ulster Cycle saga which involves the \"Curadmír\" is \"Fled Bricrenn\" (\"Bricriu's Feast\"). The notorious troublemaker Bricriu invites the Ulstermen to a feast. Before it starts he visits three heroes, Cúchulainn, Conall Cernach and Lóegaire Búadach, privately, and advises each of them to claim the Champion's Portion, which at this feast includes not only a roast boar but also a cauldron of wine and a hundred cakes of wheat baked in honey. All three stand up to claim it, and fighting nearly breaks out. To avoid violence the Champion's Portion is shared out among the Ulstermen, and Ailill and Medb, king and queen of Connacht, and then Cú Roí of Munster, are asked to judge the dispute. A series of tests of skill and courage are set, and after each of them Cúchulainn is judged to have won, but Conall and Lóegaire refuse to accept the judgement, and the Champion's Portion goes unawarded. Then, when the three heroes are at Emain Macha, they are visited by a giant churl who challenges them each in turn to behead him, and then allow him to behead them the following day. Lóegaire, Conall and Cúchulainn all behead the churl, who picks up his head and leaves, but Lóegaire and Conall are nowhere to be found when he returns the following day. Only Cúchulainn keeps his side of the bargain. He stretches out his neck for the axe, but the churl spares him in recognition of his courage and honour. He reveals himself as Cú Roí, and announces that the Champion's Portion is indisputably Cúchulainn's.\n\nAthenaeus, quoting the lost work of the 1st/2nd century BC Greek historian and geographer Posidonius, says that it was formerly the custom among the Celts for the hind quarter of pork to be claimed by the bravest man, and disputes over who this was would be settled by single combat to the death. Diodorus Siculus also says that the Celts gave the best joints of meat to the most distinguished men.\n\n"}
{"id": "51212886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51212886", "title": "Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee cyber attacks", "text": "Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee cyber attacks\n\nOn Friday July 29, 2016 the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee reported that its computer systems had been infiltrated. It is strongly believed by US intelligence sources that the infiltrator groups are Russian foreign intelligence groups that breached the Democratic National Committee's computer systems. These groups are known as Fancy Bear and Cozy Bear. \n\nCrowdStrike assisted with efforts to deal with the DCCC breach. There is significant concern that the Russians are attempting to influence the 2016 Presidential campaign. Russian cyber intrusions into United States government and private sector computer systems significantly increased after the U.S, imposed sanctions on Russia after its invasion of the Crimea in Ukraine. It has been President Obama's preference to publicize cyber attacks.\n\n"}
{"id": "9359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9359", "title": "Demographics of El Salvador", "text": "Demographics of El Salvador\n\nThis article is about the demographic features of the population of El Salvador, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.\n\nEl Salvador's population numbers 6.1 million. Ethnically, 78% of Salvadorans are mixed (mixed Indigenous Native American and European Spanish origin). Another 12% is of pure European descent, 10% are of pure indigenous descent, 0.16% are Black and others are 0.64%.\n\nEl Salvador's population was in , compared to 2,200,000 in 1950. In 2010 the percentage of the population below the age of 15 was 32.1%, 61% were between 15 and 65 years of age, while 6.9% were 65 years or older.\n\nThe migration rate accelerated during the period of 1979 to 1981, this marked the beginning of the civil unrest and the spread of political killings. The total impact of civil wars, dictatorships and socioeconomics drove over a million Salvadorans (both as immigrants and refugees) into the United States; Guatemala is the second country that hosts more Salvadorans behind the United States, approximately 110,000 Salvadorans according to the national census of 2010. in addition small Salvadoran communities sprung up in Canada, Australia, Belize, Panama, Costa Rica, Italy, Taiwan and Sweden since the migration trend began in the early 1970s. The 2010 U.S. Census counted 1,648,968 Salvadorans in the United States, up from 655,165 in 2000.\n\nOut of the 6,408,111 people in El Salvador, 78% are Mestizo, 12% are of full European descent, 10% Indigenous, 0.8% Black, and 0.64% other.\n\n78% of the population are mestizo, having mixed indigenous and European ancestry. In the mestizo population, Salvadorans who are racially European, especially Mediterranean, as well as Afro-Salvadoran, and the indigenous people in El Salvador who do not speak indigenous languages or have an indigenous culture, all identify themselves as being culturally mestizo.\n\nAccording to the Salvadoran Government, about 10% of the population are of full or partial indigenous origin. The largest most dominant Native American groups in El Salvador are the Lenca people, Maya peoples: (Poqomam people/Chorti people) and Pipil people followed by small enclaves of Cacaopera people, Xinca people, Alaguilac people, Mixe people, Mangue language people, as well as an Olmec past. (Pipil, located in the west and central part of the country, and Lenca, found east of the Lempa River). There are small populations of Cacaopera people in the Morazán Department and a few Ch'orti' people live in the department of Ahuachapán, near the border of Guatemala.\n\nThe number of indigenous people in El Salvador have been criticized by indigenous organizations and academics as too small and accuse the government of denying the existence of indigenous Salvadorans in the country. According to the National Salvadoran Indigenous Coordination Council (CCNIS) and CONCULTURA (National Council for Art and Culture at the Ministry of Education ), approximately 600,000 or 10 per cent of Salvadorian peoples are indigenous. Nonetheless, very few Amerindians have retained their customs and traditions, having over time assimilated into the dominant Mestizo/Spanish culture. The low numbers of indigenous people may be partly explained by historically high rates of old-world diseases, absorption into the mestizo population, as well as mass murder during the 1932 Salvadoran peasant uprising (or \"La Matanza\") which saw (estimates of) up to 30,000 peasants killed in a short period of time. Many authors note that since \"La Matanza\" the indigenous in El Salvador have been very reluctant to describe themselves as such (in census declarations for example) or to wear indigenous dress or be seen to be taking part in any cultural activities or customs that might be understood as indigenous. Departments and cities in the country with notable indigenous populations include Sonsonate (especially Izalco, Nahuizalco, and Santo Domingo), Cacaopera, and Panchimalco, in the department of San Salvador.\n\nSome 12% of Salvadorans are white. This population is mostly made up of ethnically Spanish people, while there are also Salvadorans of French, German, Swiss, English, Irish, and Italian descent. In northern departments like the Chalatenango Department, it is well known that residents in the area are of pure Spanish descent; settling in the region that is now Chalatenango in the late 18th century. The governor of San Salvador, Francisco Luis Héctor de Carondelet, ordered families from northern Spain (Galicia and Asturias) to settle the area to compensate for the lack of indigenous people to work the land; it is not uncommon to see people with blond hair, fair skin, and blue or green eyes in municipalities like Dulce Nombre de María, La Palma, and El Pital.\n\nThere is a significant Arab population (of about 100,000); mostly from Palestine (especially from the area of Bethlehem), but also from Lebanon. Salvadorans of Palestinian descent numbered around 70,000 individuals, while Salvadorans of Lebanese descent is around 25,000. There is also a small community of Jews who came to El Salvador from France, Germany, Morocco, Tunisia, and Turkey.\n\nPardo is the term that was used in colonial El Salvador to describe a tri-racial Afro-Mestizo person of Indigenous, European, and African descent. Afro-Salvadorans are the descendants of the African population that were enslaved and shipped to El Salvador to work in mines in specific regions of El Salvador. They have mixed into and were naturally bred out by the general Mestizo population, which is a combination of a Mestizo majority and the minority of Pardo people, both of whom are racially mixed populations. Thus, there remains no significant extremes of African physiognomy among Salvadorans like there is in the other countries of Central America. A total of only 10,000 African slaves were brought to El Salvador over the span of 75 years, starting around 1548, about 25 years after El Salvador's colonization. El Salvador is the only country in Central America that does not have English Antillean (West Indian) or Garifuna populations of the Caribbean, but instead had older colonial African slaves that came straight from Africa. This is the reason why El Salvador is the only country in Central America not to have a caribbeanized culture, and instead preserved its classical Central America culture.\n\nThe following demographic statistics are from The World Factbook, unless otherwise indicated.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Population Department of the United Nations prepared the following estimates.\n\nStructure of the population (12.05.2007) (Census):\n\nStructure of the population (01.07.2011) (Estimates based on the 2007 Population Census):\n\n"}
{"id": "17822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17822", "title": "Demographics of Lithuania", "text": "Demographics of Lithuania\n\nThis article is about the demographic features of the population of Lithuania, including population density, ethnicity, level of education, health, economic status, and religious affiliations.\n\nThe earliest evidence of inhabitants in present-day Lithuania dates back to 10,000 BC. Between 3000 and 2000 BC, the people of the Corded Ware culture spread over a vast region of eastern Europe, between the Baltic Sea and the Vistula River in the West and the Moscow–Kursk line in the East. Merging with the indigenous peoples, they gave rise to the Balts, a distinct Indo-European ethnic group whose descendants are the present-day Lithuanian and Latvian nations and the former Old Prussians.\n\nThe name of Lithuania – \"Lithuanians\" – was first mentioned in 1009. Among its etymologies there are a derivation from the word \"Lietava\", for a small river, a possible derivation from a word leičiai, but most probable is the name for union of Lithuanian ethnic tribes ('susilieti, lietis' means to unite and the word 'lietuva' means something which has been united).\n\nThe primary Lithuanian state, the Duchy of Lithuania, emerged in the territory of Lietuva, the ethnic homeland of Lithuanians. At the birth of the Grand Duchy of Lithuania (GDL), ethnic Lithuanians made up about 70% of the population. With the acquisition of new Ruthenian territories, this proportion decreased to 50% and later to 30%. By the time of the largest expansion towards Kievan Rus' lands, at the end of the 13th and during the 14th century, the territory of the GDL was about 800,000 km, of which 10% was ethnically Lithuanian. The ethnic Lithuanian population is estimated to have been 420,000 out of 1.4 million in 1375 (the territory was about 700,000 km), and 550,000 out of 3.8 million in 1490 (territory: 850,000 km) Ruthenians were only nowadays Ukrainians and the whole Belarus including Smolensk and Mozhaisk Galindians were of Lithuanian ethnicity (belonging to the same family as Prussians or Latvians). In addition to the Ruthenians and Lithuanians, other significant ethnic groups throughout GDL were Jews and Tatars. The combined population of Poland and GDL in 1493 is estimated as 7.5 million, of whom 3.25 million were Poles, 3.75 million Ruthenians and 0.5 million Lithuanians. With the Union of Lublin Lithuanian Grand Duchy lost large part of lands to the Polish Crown (see demographics of the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth). An ethnic Lithuanian proportion being about 1/4 in GDL after the Union of Lublin was held till the partitions. There was much devastation and population loss throughout the GDL in the mid and late 17th century, including the ethnic Lithuanian population in Vilnius voivodeship. Besides devastation, the Ruthenian population declined proportionally after the territorial losses to the Russian Empire. In 1770 there were about 4.84 million inhabitants in GDL, of which the largest ethnic group were Ruthenians, about 1.39 million – Lithuanians. The voivodeships with a majority ethnic Lithuanian population were Vilnius, Trakai and Samogitian voivodeships, and these three voivodeships comprised the political center of the state. In the southern angle of Trakai voivodeship and south-eastern part of Vilnius voivodeship there were also many Belarusians; in some of the south-eastern areas they were the major linguistic group.\n\nThe Ruthenian population formed a majority in GDL from the time of the GDL's expansion in the mid 14th century; and the adjective \"Lithuanian\", besides denoting ethnic Lithuanians, from early times denoted any inhabitant of GDL, including Slavs and Jews.\n\nThe Ruthenian language, corresponding to today's Belarusian and Ukrainian, was then called Russian, and was used as one of the chancellery languages by Lithuanian monarchs. However, there are fewer extant documents written in this language than those written in Latin and German from the time of Vytautas. Later, Ruthenian became the main language of documentation and writing. In the years that followed, it was the main language of government until the introduction of Polish as the chancellery language of the Lithuanian–Polish Commonwealth in 1697; however there are also examples of documents written in Ruthenian from the second half of the 18th century. The Lithuanian language was used orally in Vilnius, Trakai and Samogitian voivodeships, and by small numbers of people elsewhere. At the court of Zygmunt August, the last king of the Duchy, both Polish and Lithuanian were spoken.\n\nAfter the Third Partition of the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth on October 24, 1795, between the Russian Empire, the Kingdom of Prussia and Habsburg Austria, the Commonwealth ceased to exist and Lithuania became a part of the Russian empire. After the abolition of serfdom in 1861, the use of the Polish language noticeably increased in eastern Lithuania and western Belarus. Many Lithuanians, living further east, were unable to receive the Lithuanian printed books smuggled into Lithuania by knygnešiai during the time of the ban on printing books in the Latin alphabet, and they switched to Polish. Although this also used the Latin alphabet, it was much less affected by the ban, because Polish was still used by the politically important class of the nobility, and also used predominantly in the biggest towns of Lithuania, and supported by the church.\n\nThe Lithuanian National Revival had begun to intensify by the end of the 19th century, and the number of Lithuanian speakers and people identifying themselves as ethnic Lithuanians started to increase; but at the same time many Polish speaking Lithuanians, especially former \"szlachta\", cut themselves adrift from the Lithuanian nation. There were population losses due to several border changes, Soviet deportations, the Holocaust of the Lithuanian Jews, and German and Polish repatriations during and after World War II. After World War II, the ethnic Lithuanian population remained stable: 79.3% in 1959 to 83.5% in 2002. Lithuania's citizenship law and the Constitution meet international and OSCE standards, guaranteeing universal human and civil rights.\n\nLithuanians are neither Slavic nor Germanic, although the union with Poland, German and Russian colonization and settlement left cultural and religious influences.\n\nAmong the baltic states, Lithuania has the most homogeneous population. According to the census conducted in 2001, 83.4% of the population identified themselves as Lithuanians, 6.7% as Poles, 6.3% as Russians, 1.2% as Belarusians, and 2.3% as members of other ethnic groups. \nPoles are concentrated in the Vilnius Region, the area controlled by Poland in the interwar period. There are especially large Polish communities in Vilnius district municipality (52% of the population) and Šalčininkai district municipality (77.8%). The Electoral Action of Poles in Lithuania, an ethnic minority political party, has strong influence in these areas and has representation in the Seimas. The party is most active in local politics and controls several municipal councils.\n\nRussians, even though they are almost as numerous as Poles, are much more evenly scattered and lack strong political cohesion. The most prominent community lives in Visaginas (52%). Most of them are scientists who moved with their families from the Russian SFSR to work at the Ignalina Nuclear Power Plant. A number of ethnic Russians (mostly military) left Lithuania after the declaration of independence in 1990.\n\nAnother major change in the ethnic composition of Lithuania was the extermination of the Jewish population during the Holocaust. Before World War II about 7.5% of the population was Jewish; they were concentrated in cities and towns and had a significant influence on crafts and business. They were called Litvaks and had a strong culture. The population of Vilnius, sometimes nicknamed Northern Jerusalem, was about 30% Jewish. Almost all of these Jews were killed during the Nazi German occupation, or later emigrated to the United States and Israel. Now there are only about 4,000 Jews living in Lithuania.\n\nLithuania's membership of the European Union has made Lithuanian citizenship all the more appealing. Lithuanian citizenship is theoretically easier (see court ruling notes below) to obtain than that of many other European countries—only one great-grandparent is necessary to become a Lithuanian citizen. Persons who held citizenship in the Republic of Lithuania prior to June 15, 1940, and their children, grandchildren, and great-grandchildren (provided that these persons did not repatriate) are eligible for Lithuanian citizenship .\nLithuanian citizens are allowed to travel and work throughout the European Union without a visa or other restrictions.\n\nThe Lithuanian Constitutional Court ruled in November 2006 that a number of provisions of the Law of the Republic of Lithuania on citizenship are in conflict with the Lithuanian Constitution. In particular, the court ruled that a number of current provisions of the Citizenship Law implicitly or explicitly allowing dual citizenship are in conflict with the Constitution; such provisions amounted to the unconstitutional practice of making dual citizenship a common phenomenon rather than a rare exception. The provisions of the Citizenship Law announced unconstitutional are no longer valid and applicable to the extent stated by the Constitutional Court.\n\nThe Lithuanian Parliament amended the Citizenship Law substantially as a result of this court ruling, allowing dual Citizenship for children of at least one Lithuanian parent that are born abroad, but preventing Lithuanians from keeping their Lithuanian citizenship after obtaining citizenship of another country.\n\nThere are some special cases still permitting dual citizenship. See Lithuanian nationality law.\n\nThe Lithuanian language is the country's sole official language countrywide. It is the first language of almost 85% of population and is also spoken by 286,742 out of 443,514 non-Lithuanians. The Soviet era had imposed the official use of Russian, so most adult Lithuanians speak Russian as a second language, while the Polish population generally speaks Polish. Russians who immigrated after World War II speak Russian as their first language. The younger generation usually speaks English as their second language, while a substantial portion of the total population (37%) speak at least two foreign languages. According to census of 2011, 30% of the population can speak English.\n\nApproximately 14,800 pupils started their 2012 school year in schools where the curriculum is conducted in Russian (down from 76,000 in 1991), and about 12,300 enrolled in Polish schools (compared to 11,400 in 1991 and 21,700 in 2001). There are also schools in the Belarusian language, as well as in French and English.\n\nThere are perhaps 50 speakers of Karaim, a Turkic language spoken by Karaite Jews, in Lithuania.\n\nLithuanian Sign Language and Russian Sign Language are used by the deaf community.\n\n As per the 2011 census, 77.2% of Lithuanians identified themselves as Roman Catholic. The Church has been the majority denomination since the Christianisation of Lithuania at the end of the 14th century. Some priests actively led the resistance against the Communist regime (symbolised by the Hill of Crosses).\n\nIn the first half of the 20th century, the Lutheran Protestant church had around 200,000 members, 9% of the total population, mostly Protestant Lithuanians from the former Memel Territory and Germans, but it has declined since 1945. Small Protestant communities are dispersed throughout the northern and western parts of the country. Believers and clergy suffered greatly during the Soviet occupation, with many killed, tortured or deported to Siberia. Various Protestant churches have established missions in Lithuania since 1990. 4.1% are Orthodox, 0.8% are Old Believers (both mainly among the Russian minority), 0.8% are Protestant and 6.1% have no religion.\n\nLithuania was historically home to a significant Jewish community and was an important center of Jewish scholarship and culture from the 18th century, until the community, numbering about 160,000 before World War II, was almost entirely annihilated during the Holocaust. By 2011, around 3000 people in Lithuania identified themselves as Jews, while around 1200 identified with Judaic religious community.\n\nAccording to the 2005 Eurobarometer Poll, 12% said that \"they do not believe there is any sort of spirit, god, or life force\", 36% answered that \"they believe there is some sort of spirit or life force\" and 49% of Lithuanian citizens responded that \"they believe there is a God\".\n\nThe following demographic statistics are from the CIA World Factbook, unless otherwise indicated.\n\nAge structure:\n<br>\"0–14 years:\" 14.2% (male 258,423/female 245,115)\n<br>\"15–64 years:\" 69.6% (male 1,214,743/female 1,261,413)\n<br>\"65 years and over:\" 16.2% (male 198,714/female 376,771) (2009 est.)\n\nPopulation growth rate:\n−0.28% (2009 est.)\n\nNet migration rate:\n−0.72 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.)\n\nSex ratio:\n<br>\"at birth:\"\n1.06 male(s)/female\n<br>\"under 15 years:\"\n1.05 male(s)/female\n<br>\"15–64 years:\"\n0.96 male(s)/female\n<br>\"65 years and over:\"\n0.53 male(s)/female\n<br>\"total population:\"\n0.89 male(s)/female (2009 est.)\n\nInfant mortality rate:\n\"Total:\" 6.47 deaths/1,000 live births\n<br>male: 7.73 deaths/1,000 live births\n<br>female: 5.13 deaths/1,000 live births (2009 est.)\n\nLife expectancy at birth:\n<br>\"total population:\" 74.9 years\n<br>\"male:\" 69.98 years\n<br>\"female:\" 80.1 years (2009 est.)\n\nTotal fertility rate:\n1.29 children born/woman (2014) \n\nSuicide rate:\n31.5 suicides per every 100,000 people (2009)\n\nDivorce rate:\nWith 2.8 divorces per every 1000 people (2009), Lithuania in 2004 had one of the highest divorce rate in the European Union .\n\n the figures of 1939 exclude the Klaipėda Region\n\n(p) = preliminar\n\n\n\n\nAccording to the 2011 census, only around 0.2% of the Lithuanian population aged 10 and over were illiterate, the majority of them in rural areas. The proportion is similar for males and females.\n\nThe general education system in Lithuania consists of primary, basic, secondary and tertiary education. Primary, basic and secondary (or high school) education is free of charge to all residents and is compulsory for pupils under 16 years of age. Pre-primary education is also available free of charge to 5-year-old or 6-year-old children but is not compulsory. Pre-primary schooling is attended by about 90% of pre-school age children in Lithuania. Primary, basic and secondary education in Lithuania is available to some ethnic minorities in their native languages, including Polish, Russian and Belarusian.\n\nPrimary schooling () is available to kids that have reached 7 years of age (or younger, should the parents so desire) and lasts four years. Primary school students are not assessed through a grade system, instead using oral or written feedback. Students begin studying their first foreign language in their second year of primary school. Data from the 2011 census showed that 99.1% of the population aged 20 and older have attained at least primary education, while around 27,000 pupils started the first grade in 2012.\n\nBasic education () covers grades 5 to 10. It is provided by basic, secondary, youth, vocational schools and gymnasiums. After completing the 10th grade, the students must take the basic education achievement test in the Lithuanian language, mathematics, and an elective basic education achievement test in Mother Tongue (Belarusian, Polish, Russian or German). In 2011, 90.9% of the population of Lithuania aged 20 or older had attained the basic level of education.\n\nSecondary education () in Lithuania is optional and available to students who have attained basic education. It covers two years (11-12th grades in secondary schools and 3-4th grades in gymnasiums). At this level, students have the opportunity to adapt their study plans (subjects and study level) to their individual preferences. Secondary education is completed upon passing national matura examinations. Matura examinations consist of as many as six separate examinations of which two (Lithuanian Language and Literature and one elective subject) are required to attain the diploma. As of 2011, 78.2% of the population of Lithuania aged 20 or older had attained the secondary level of education, including secondary education provided by vocational schools.\n\nMore than 60% of the graduates from secondary school every year choose to continue education at colleges and universities of the Lithuanian higher education system. As of 2013, there were 23 universities (including academies and business schools recognized as such) and 24 colleges operating in Lithuania. Vilnius University, founded in 1579, is the oldest and largest university in Lithuania. More than 48,000 students enrolled to all higher education programmes in Lithuania in 2011, including level I (professional bachelor and bachelor), level II (masters) and level III (doctorate) studies. Higher education in Lithuania is partly state-funded, with free-of-charge access to higher education constitutionally guaranteed to students deemed \"good\". There are also stipends available to the best students.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12391913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12391913", "title": "Dual diagnosis", "text": "Dual diagnosis\n\nDual diagnosis (also called co-occurring disorders, COD, or dual pathology) is the condition of suffering from a mental illness and a comorbid substance abuse problem. There is considerable debate surrounding the appropriateness of using a single category for a heterogeneous group of individuals with complex needs and a varied range of problems. The concept can be used broadly, for example depression and alcoholism, or it can be restricted to specify severe mental illness (e.g. psychosis, schizophrenia) and substance misuse disorder (e.g. cannabis abuse), or a person who has a milder mental illness and a drug dependency, such as panic disorder or generalized anxiety disorder and is dependent on opioids. Diagnosing a primary psychiatric illness in substance abusers is challenging as drug abuse itself often induces psychiatric symptoms, thus making it necessary to differentiate between substance induced and pre-existing mental illness.\n\nThose with co-occurring disorders face complex challenges. They have increased rates of relapse, hospitalization, homelessness, and HIV and hepatitis C infection compared to those with either mental or substance use disorders alone.\n\nThe identification of substance-induced versus independent psychiatric symptoms or disorders has important treatment implications and often constitutes a challenge in daily clinical practice. Similar patterns of comorbidity and risk factors in individuals with substance induced disorder and those with independent non-substance induced psychiatric symptoms suggest that the two conditions may share underlying etiologic factors.\n\nDrug abuse, including alcohol and prescription drugs, can induce symptomatology which resembles mental illness, which can make it difficult to differentiate between substance induced psychiatric syndromes and pre-existing mental health problems. More often than not psychiatric disorders among drug or alcohol abusers disappear with prolonged abstinence. Substance induced psychiatric symptoms can occur both in the intoxicated state and also during the withdrawal state. In some cases these substance induced psychiatric disorders can persist long after detoxification, such as prolonged psychosis or depression after amphetamine or cocaine abuse. Abuse of hallucinogens can trigger delusional and other psychotic phenomena long after cessation of use and cannabis may trigger panic attacks during intoxication and with use it may cause a state similar to dysthymia. Severe anxiety and depression are commonly induced by sustained alcohol abuse which in most cases abates with prolonged abstinence. Even moderate sustained use of alcohol may increase anxiety and depression levels in some individuals. In most cases these drug induced psychiatric disorders fade away with prolonged abstinence. A protracted withdrawal syndrome can also occur with psychiatric and other symptoms persisting for months after cessation of use. Among the currently prevalent medications, benzodiazepines are the most notable drug for inducing prolonged withdrawal effects with symptoms sometimes persisting for years after cessation of use.\n\nProspective epidemiological studies do not support the hypotheses that comorbidity of substance use disorders with other psychiatric illnesses is primarily a consequence of substance abuse or dependence or that increasing comorbidity is largely attributable to increasing use of substances. Yet emphasis is often on the effects of substances on the brain creating the impression that dual disorders are a natural consequence of these substances. However addictive drugs or exposure to gambling will not lead to addictive behaviors or drug dependence in most individuals but only in vulnerable ones, although, according to some researchers, neuroadaptation or regulation of neuronal plasticity, and molecular changes, may alter gene expression in some cases and subsequently lead to substance use disorders.\n\nResearch instruments are also often insufficiently sensitive to discriminate between independent, true dual pathology, and substance-induced symptoms. Structured instruments, as Global Appraisal of Individual Needs - Short Screener-GAIN-SS and Psychiatric Research Interview for Substance and Mental Disorders for DSM-IV-PRISM, have been developed to increase the diagnostic validity. While structured instruments can help organize diagnostic information, clinicians must still make judgments on the origin of symptoms.\n\nComorbidity of addictive disorders and other psychiatric disorders, i.e., dual disorders, is very common and a large body of literature has accumulated demonstrating that mental disorders are strongly associated with substance use disorders. The 2011 USA National Survey on Drug Use and Health found that 17.5% of adults with a mental illness had a co-occurring substance use disorder; this works out to 7.98 million people. Estimates of co-occurring disorders in Canada are even higher, with an estimated 40-60% of adults with a severe and persistent mental illness experiencing a substance use disorder in their lifetime.\n\nA study by Kessler et al. in the United States attempting to assess the prevalence of dual diagnosis found that 47% of clients with schizophrenia had a substance misuse disorder at some time in their life, and the chances of developing a substance misuse disorder was significantly higher among patients suffering from a psychotic illness than in those without a psychotic illness.\n\nAnother study looked at the extent of substance misuse in a group of 187 chronically mentally ill patients living in the community. According to the clinician's ratings, around a third of the sample used alcohol, street drugs, or both during the six months before evaluation.\n\nFurther UK studies have shown slightly more moderate rates of substance misuse among mentally ill individuals. One study found that individuals suffering from schizophrenia showed just a 7% prevalence of problematic drug use in the year prior to being interviewed and 21% reported problematic use some time before that.\n\nWright and colleagues identified individuals with psychotic illnesses who had been in contact with services in the London borough of Croydon over the previous 6 months. Cases of alcohol or substance misuse and dependence were identified through standardized interviews with clients and keyworkers. Results showed that prevalence rates of dual diagnosis were 33% for the use of any substance, 20% for alcohol misuse only and 5% for drug misuse only. A lifetime history of any illicit drug use was observed in 35% of the sample.\n\nSubstance use disorders can be confused with other psychiatric disorders. There are diagnoses for substance-induced mood disorders and substance-induced anxiety disorders and thus such overlap can be complicated. For this reason, the DSM-IV advises that diagnoses of primary psychiatric disorders not be made in the absence of sobriety (of duration sufficient to allow for any substance-induced post-acute-withdrawal symptoms to dissipate) up to 1 year.\n\nOnly a small proportion of those with co-occurring disorders actually receive treatment for both disorders. Therefore, it was argued that a new approach is needed to enable clinicians, researchers and managers to offer adequate assessment and evidence-based treatments to patients with dual pathology, who cannot be adequately and efficiently managed by cross-referral between psychiatric and addiction services as currently configured and resourced. In 2011, it was estimated that only 12.4% of American adults with co-occurring disorders were receiving both mental health and addictions treatment. Clients with co-occurring disorders face challenges accessing treatment, as they may be excluded from mental health services if they admit to a substance abuse problem, and vice versa.\n\nThere are multiple approaches to treating concurrent disorders. Partial treatment involves treating only the disorder that is considered primary. Sequential treatment involves treating the primary disorder first, and then treating the secondary disorder after the primary disorder has been stabilized. Parallel treatment involves the client receiving mental health services from one provider, and addictions services from another.\n\nIntegrated treatment involves a seamless blending of interventions into a single coherent treatment package developed with a consistent philosophy and approach among care providers. With this approach, both disorders are considered primary. Integrated treatment can improve accessibility, service individualization, engagement in treatment, treatment compliance, mental health symptoms, and overall outcomes. The Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration in the United States describes integrated treatment as being in the best interests or clients, programs, funders, and systems. Green suggested that treatment should be integrated, and a collaborative process between the treatment team and the patient. Furthermore, recovery should to be viewed as a marathon rather than a sprint, and methods and outcome goals should be explicit.\n\nAlthough many patients may reject medications as antithetical to substance-abuse recovery and side effects, they can be useful to reduce paranoia, anxiety, and craving. Medications that have proven effective include opioid replacement therapies, such as lifelong maintenance on methadone or buprenorphine, to minimize risk of relapse, fatality, and legal trouble amongst opioid addicts, as well as helping with cravings, baclofen for alcoholics, opioid addicts, cocaine addicts, and amphetamine addicts, to help eliminate drug cravings, and clozapine, the first atypical antipsychotic, which appears to reduce illicit drug use amongst stimulant addicts. Clozapine can cause respiratory arrest when combined with alcohol, benzodiazepines, or opioids, so it is not recommended to use in these groups.\n\nThere are a number of theories that explain the relationship between mental illness and substance abuse.\n\nThe causality theory suggests that certain types of substance abuse may causally lead to mental illness.\n\nThere is strong evidence that using cannabis can produce psychotic and affective experiences. When it comes to persisting effects, there is a clear increase in incidence of psychotic outcomes in people who had used cannabis, even when they had used it only once. More frequent use of cannabis strongly augmented the risk for psychosis. The evidence for affective outcomes is less strong. However, this connection between cannabis and psychosis does not prove that cannabis \"causes\" psychotic disorders. The causality theory for cannabis has been challenged as despite explosive increases in cannabis consumption over the past 40 years in western society, the rate of schizophrenia (and psychosis in general) has remained relatively stable.\n\nOne in four people who have a substance use disorder also have attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder, which makes the treatment of both conditions more difficult. ADHD is associated with an increased craving for drugs. Having ADHD makes it more likely that an individual will initiate substance misuse at a younger age than their peers. They are also more likely to have a poorer outcome, such as longer time to remission, and increased psychiatric complications from substance misuse. While generally stimulant medications do not seem to worsen substance misuse, they are known to be abused in some cases. Psychosocial therapy and/or nonstimulant medications and extended release stimulants are ADHD treatment options that reduce these risks.\n\nUnlike ADHD, which significantly increases the risk of substance use disorder, autism spectrum disorder has the opposite effect of significantly reducing the risk of substance abuse. This is because introversion, inhibition and lack of sensation seeking personality traits, which are typical of autism spectrum disorder, protect against substance abuse and thus substance abuse levels are low in individuals who are on the autism spectrum. However, certain forms of substance abuse, especially alcohol abuse, can cause or worsen certain neuropsychological symptoms which are common to autism spectrum disorder, such as impaired social skills due to the neurotoxic effects of alcohol on the brain, especially the prefrontal cortex area of the brain. The social skills that are impaired by alcohol abuse include impairments in perceiving facial emotions, prosody perception problems and theory of mind deficits; the ability to understand humour is also impaired in alcohol abusers.\n\nThe inclusion of behavioral addictions like pathological gambling must change our way of understanding and dealing with addictions. Pathological (disordered) gambling has commonalities in clinical expression, etiology, comorbidity, physiology and treatment with substance use disorders (DSM-5). A challenge is to understand the development of compulsivity at a neurochemical level not only for drugs.\n\nThe past exposure theory suggests that exposure to psychiatric medication alters neural synapses, introducing an imbalance that was not previously present. Discontinuation of the drug is expected to result in symptoms of psychiatric illness which resolve once the drug is restarted. This theory suggests that while it may appear that the medication is working, it is only treating a disorder caused by the medication itself. New exposure to psychiatric medication may lead to heightened sensitivity to the effects of drugs and alcohol, which has a deteriorating effect on the patient.\n\nThe self-medication theory suggests that people with severe mental illnesses misuse substances in order to relieve a specific set of symptoms and counter the negative side-effects of antipsychotic medication.\n\nKhantizan proposes that substances are not randomly chosen, but are specifically selected for their effects. For example, using stimulants such as nicotine or amphetamines can be used to combat the sedation that can be caused by higher doses of certain types of antipsychotic medication. Conversely, some people taking medications with a stimulant effect such as the SNRI antidepressants Effexor (venlafaxine) or Wellbutrin (bupropion) may seek out benzodiazepines or opioid narcotics to counter the anxiety and insomnia that such medications sometimes evoke.\n\nSome studies show that nicotine administration can be effective for reducing motor side-effects of antipsychotics, with both bradykinesia (stiff muscles) and dyskinesia(involuntary movement) being prevented.\n\nThe alleviation of dysphoria theory suggests that people with severe mental illness commonly have a negative self-image, which makes them vulnerable to using psychoactive substances to alleviate these feelings. Despite the existence of a wide range of dysphoric feelings (anxiety, depression, boredom, and loneliness), the literature on self-reported reasons for use seems to lend support for the experience of these feelings being the primary motivator for drug and alcohol misuse.\n\nAnother theory is that there may be shared risk factors that can lead to both substance abuse and mental illness. Mueser hypothesizes that these may include factors such as social isolation, poverty, lack of structured daily activity, lack of adult role responsibility, living in areas with high drug availability, and association with people who already misuse drugs.\n\nOther evidence suggests that traumatic life events, such as sexual abuse, are associated with the development of psychiatric problems and substance abuse.\n\nThe supersensitivity theory proposes that certain individuals who have severe mental illness also have biological and psychological vulnerabilities, caused by genetic and early environmental life events. These interact with stressful life events and can result in either a psychiatric disorder or trigger a relapse into an existing illness. The theory states that although anti-psychotic medication can reduce the vulnerability, substance abuse may increase it, causing the individual to be more likely to experience negative consequences from using relatively small amounts of substances. These individuals, therefore, are \"supersensitive\" to the effects of certain substances, and individuals with psychotic illness such as schizophrenia may be less capable of sustaining moderate substance use over time without experiencing negative symptoms.\n\nAlthough there are limitations in the research studies conducted in this area, namely that most have focused primarily on schizophrenia, this theory provides an explanation of why relatively low levels of substance misuse often result in negative consequences for individuals with severe mental illness.\n\nCurrent nosological approach does not provide a framework for internal (sub-threshold symptoms) or external (comorbidity) heterogeneity of the different diagnostic categories. The prevailing \"Neo-Kraepelinian\" diagnostic system solely accounts for a categorical diagnosis, therefore not allowing for the possibility of dual diagnosis. There has been substantial criticism to the \"Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders\" (DSM-IV), due to problems of diagnostic overlap, lack of clear boundaries between normality and disease, a failure to take into account findings from novel research and the lack of diagnostic stability over time.\n\nThe traditional method for treating patients suffering from dual diagnosis was a parallel treatment program. In this format, patients received mental health services from one clinician while addressing their substance abuse with a separate clinician. However, researchers found that parallel treatments were ineffective, suggesting a need to integrate the services addressing mental health with those addressing substance abuse.\n\nDuring the mid-1980s, a number of initiatives began to combine mental health and substance abuse services in an attempt to meet this need. These programs worked to shift the method of treatment for substance abuse from a confrontational approach to a supportive one. They also introduced new methods to motivate clients and worked with them to develop long-term goals for their care. Although the studies conducted by these initiatives did not have control groups, their results were promising and became the basis for more rigorous efforts to study and develop models of integrated treatment.\n\n"}
{"id": "27482301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27482301", "title": "Edward A. Burke", "text": "Edward A. Burke\n\nEdward Austin Burke or Burk (September 13, 1839 – September 24, 1928), was the Democratic state treasurer of Louisiana following Reconstruction. Burke later fled to Honduras after it was discovered that there were misappropriations of state treasury funds. While in Honduras Burke became a major land owner and held government positions within Honduras' nationalized railway systems. He remained an exile until his death nearly four decades later.\n\nBurke, by his own account, was of Irish descent and born in Louisville, Kentucky. He used the name \"Burk\" until after the Civil War. Burk's initial career started with the railroads. At the age of thirteen he was employed as a railroad telegraph operator in Urbana, Illinois. By the age of seventeen, he had been promoted to a division superintendent. The outbreak of the Civil War found Burke working for a railroad in Texas. On October 7, 1861 he was commissioned as a Confederate officer into Debray's Mounted Battalion. His knowledge of transportation logistics gained through his years of railroad experience resulted in his temporary transfer to Texas' Office of Field Transportation in March 1863. By December of that year the transfer was permanent. Major E.A. Burk commanded the Houston Battalion,Texas Infantry of 145 men. By war's end Burke had reached the rank of major with a duty assignment as Quartermaster and Chief Inspector of Field Transportation, District of Texas. After the war Burke's business career wavered. In Galveston he initially found work as telegraph operator and then as a manager of a cotton factorage. He later teamed up with another former Confederate officer, H. B. Stoddart, and formed the import export firm, Stoddart & Burk. The firm primarily exported cotton and imported liquor. In January 1869, the firm faced tax evasion charges from failure to pay federal taxes due on the imported alcohol. The charges against Burke were eventually dismissed, but the litigation left the firm and Burke in bankruptcy. Burke tried to revitalize his fortunes by being elected the Chief Engineer of Galveston's volunteer fire department.\n\nBurke next appears in New Orleans in May 1869. At this point Burke added an \"e\" to his last name; prior to his arrival in New Orleans, Burke signed his name without an \"e\". Burke may have been trying to establish a new life in New Orleans and the minor name change may have helped him avoid Galveston creditors and distance himself from the alcohol tax scandal. Throughout his life, Burke also quoted different years of birth. Burke arrived in New Orleans during a commercial convention. He informed local New Orleanians, that he was in town to attend the convention and he was from the engineering firm of Stoddart & Burke. Burke, at first, found odd jobs in New Orleans, but eventually landed a position as a freight agent with the New Orleans, Jackson & Great Northern Railroad. In December 1869, Burke cut all his ties with Galveston, by tendering his resignation as chief engineer of the Galveston Fire Department. In 1874 the New Orleans, Jackson & Great Northern Railroad was reorganized as the New Orleans, St. Louis & Chicago Railroad.\n\nIn his newly adopted city Burke developed a friendship with Louis A. Wiltz, at the time, a politically ambitious banker. Burke became deeply involved within Democratic Conservative political circles in New Orleans. In 1872, Burke ran as the Democratic nominee for the city council position of Administrator of Improvements. The nomination of an independent candidate split the conservative vote allowing a Republican to win the post. The 1872 election was not a total loss for Burke, his political mentor, Wiltz, was elected mayor of New Orleans. Over the next decade Burke would become a crucial operative in the rise of the New Orleans Democratic machine. In September 1874 Burke was one of the key figures in the minor coup d'état, known as the Battle of Liberty Place. During the coup most of the Republican state leaders were routed from office. Burke was appointed State Registrar of Voters by the insurgency leadership. The insurgency only lasted three days. The arrival of federal troops restored the previous administration. Nevertheless, tensions within the city of New Orleans remained high for weeks. In October, at a New Orleans intersection, Burke attempted to assault the then Governor William Pitt Kellogg. The altercation escalated into an exchange of pistol fire between the two. Although no one was injured, the attack resulted in the arrest of Burke. At the governor's request, as a sign of peace, Burke was eventually released. In November of that same year Burke again ran for Administrator of Improvements. This time he won. Two years later Burke guided Francis T. Nicholls in his election campaign for governor. The results of this election were in dispute, with both sides claiming victory and accusing the other side of voter fraud. Overshadowing this election was the disputed presidential election of 1876. Burke then went to Washington to take part in the so-called Compromise of 1877; which confirmed a win for the Republican presidential candidate, a win for Louisiana's Democratic governor candidate, and guaranteed removal of federal troops from Louisiana. The Compromise also ratified Burke's friend, Wiltz, as the Lieutenant Governor. This accomplishment earned Burke much political clout. As a reward Burke was appointed State Tax Collector, considered one of the most lucrative offices within the state government.\n\nIn 1878, Burke ran for the office of state treasurer and had an easy victory. It became apparent to both Burke and Wiltz that Governor Nicholls aims did not coincide with theirs. The two then began to influence party delegates towards their goals. Because of the rift, Nicholls decided not to seek a second term. Delegates were also persuaded to extend the current term of the state treasurer's office from four to six years and to give the Louisiana Lottery a state charter for 25 years. The Democratic convention ended with Wiltz being the nominee for governor. In the election of 1879 voters elected Wiltz governor, ratified the extended term of the state treasurer's office, and confirmed the 25-year state charter for the Louisiana Lottery. The Louisiana Lottery would prove to be a lightning rod for controversy in the coming years.\n\nOne of the major critics of the Louisiana Lottery was Henry J. Hearsey, the editor of the \"New Orleans Democrat\". Burke and Charles T. Howard, spokesperson and the \"ipso facto\" power within the Louisiana Lottery, conspired to financially undermine the \"Democrat\". At the time the \"Democrat\" had an abundance of state scrip, earned through state printing contracts. For the most part, the \"Democrat\" used this scrip as cash to pay its bills and suppliers. In 1879 Howard brought suit in federal court questioning the use of state scrip in payment of state debts. The court ruled that the scrip had no legal value. The \"Democrat\", unable to satisfy its creditors and facing bankruptcy, was sold to a consortium, consisting of Burke, Howard, and others. Hearsey left the \"Democrat\" to become the editor-publisher of the New Orleans \"Daily States\". After the purchase was finalized a second judicial ruling reversed the first decision restoring the value of state scrip. Burke later assumed control of the \"Democrat\" as its managing editor. Bad blood between both Burke and Hearsey resulted in a challenge to a duel from Hearsey. On January 25, 1880 both men faced off and exchanged pistol fire. At the conclusion of the duel, neither man was wounded and both considered their honor to be intact. In 1881 Burke bought out his partners and became the sole owner of the \"Democrat\". On December 4 of that same year, Burke bought the New Orleans \"Times\". He then combined the two newspapers into the \"Times-Democrat\". Burke's newspaper was used to advocate his view of the New South. The \"Daily Picayune\" was also highly critical of Burke and his cronies. One stinging article in 1882 accused Burke of improprieties with the treasury funds. Incensed, Burke challenged the editor of the \"Daily Picayune\", C. Harrison Parker, to a duel. Since Parker was challenged, dueling etiquette allowed Parker to select the dueling weapon of choice; Parker chose rifles, but on the actual day of the duel he rethought his decision and chose pistols. Parker was a better shot than Burke's previous opponent and succeeded in seriously wounding Burke in his right thigh.\n\nIn 1882 the National Cotton Planters Association proposed the idea of a \"World Cotton Centennial\". The organization called on New Orleans and other southern cities to bid for the honor of hosting the event. The proposal was not well received by southern cities still recovering from the aftermath of the Civil War. In order to stir up more publicity for the idea the National Cotton Planters Association in 1883 succeeded in having Senator Augustus Hill Garland of Arkansas introduce a bill in the US Senate to encourage the holding of a World's Industrial and Cotton Centennial Exposition in 1884. This bill was approved by both houses of Congress. With public sentiment improving, a committee was formed. Commissioners and alternate commissioners from several states were to be appointed by the President. A governing body of thirteen directors was provided, six of whom were named by the President on the recommendation of the association and seven by him on that of a majority of the subscribers in the city in which the event was sponsored. With the future of the event becoming more of a reality, funding within the city of New Orleans started to grow. Burke's newspaper, the \"Times-Democrat\" was the first to pledge $5,000 towards the exposition. When $325,000 in pledges had been achieved the committee directors offered Burke the position of the exposition's director-general with a salary of $25,000. Burke initially refused, stating that his duties as both a newspaper editor and state treasurer would not allow enough time. Burke finally accepted when the committee directors appealed to his southern pride by hinting that they might have to include in their search — a Northerner. He refused the salary of $25,000, but accepted a salary of only $10,000 a year, which he directed should be invested in exhibition stock, to be later presented to the Agricultural and Mechanical College of Louisiana. Burke, once in command, proceeded to expand the idea of a merely local or even national exhibition into one which should embrace the entire world. With less than the needed funding, he began the erection of a building costing $325,000. While meeting much opposition to his plans, Burke, nevertheless forged ahead. Franklin C. Morehead, the perennial president of the National Cotton Planters Association and editor-publisher of its official chronicle, the \"Planters Journal\", was appointed to travel and interest state governments, manufacturing firms and foreign countries. Burke went to Washington in May, 1884, and succeeded in having a bill in Congress passed loaning $1,000,000, to be paid from the receipts of the exposition, if there were any surplus over expenses. The sum of $100,000 was also granted to the exposition fund by the Louisiana Legislature, for Congress had tied up its loan by a restrictive clause making the fund available only when $500,000 had been raised from other sources. Finally by August, 1884, a total of one million and a half was in sight. Of this amount $5,000 was to be given to each state and territory to be expended under the direction of its governor by a commission nominated by him and appointed by the President of the United States. These state exhibits thus came to be the strongest feature of the entire exhibition. The space allotted in advance for these state exhibits was soon found to be inadequate for the elaborate displays which resulted from the momentum given to this feature by the $5,000 appropriation, and it became necessary to erect a second building as large as the first. The publicity from the exposition propelled Burke into a second term as state treasurer in the election of 1884. With great fanfare the exposition opened on December 16, 1884. Despite the generous donation from Congress, cost overruns and an aura of funding misappropriations contributed to the financial failure of the exposition. Burke, foreseeing the inevitable, resigned his directorship three weeks before the enterprise was forced to an early closing on June 2, 1885.\n\nHonduras was one of three Central American countries to exhibit at the exposition. While their display was modest in comparison to others, their exhibit was highlighted by a personal visit to the exposition by Honduran President Luis Bográn. During this visit Bográn's host was Burke. Bográn was impressed by Burke's personality. The two became fast friends. Bográn was looking for someone to market the wealth of natural resources Honduras had to offer the world. Burke envisioned New Orleans as being the primary importing port for all of Central America's exports. In 1886 as an inducement to Burke, Bográn offered two large mining concessions along the Jalán and Guayape rivers in return for Burke's promise to help build an industrial school in Tegucigalpa, Honduras' capital city. Burke accepted and visited Honduras at least twice between 1886 and 1888. In 1888 a reform-minded opposition succeeded in defeating Burke. The time Burke had used in connection with his position as state treasurer was now applied to develop his mining ventures. In 1889 Burke undertook a trip to London to secure financing for a modern mining operation. While in London his successor, William Henry Pipes, discovered significant discrepancies in amount of funds available in the state treasury. Burke was considered a primary suspect of this embezzlement. From London, Burke denied these allegations and stated he intended to return to New Orleans to confront his accusers. After reviewing the evidence on hand, a grand jury handed down nineteen indictments against Burke. The evidence indicated that Burke had failed to destroy state bonds which had been redeemed and issued additional baby bonds without authorization. Sources place the amount of missing treasury funds anywhere from $64,000 to $2 million. In early December, Burke decided not to return to New Orleans and was later personally welcomed by President Bográn to Tegucigalpa, Honduras. Burke did not come empty-handed; he had succeeded in acquiring financing of $8 million for his mining venture. Arresting Burke was not an issue, because Honduras had not yet formalized a set of extradition treaties with the U.S.\n\nBurke's financial fortunes did not appear to fare well in Honduras. Burke had to contend with a number of financial panics in both London and Paris which caused investors to back out. He was also challenged with inclement weather and regime changes. In November 1893 Burke supported the losing side in a series of military skirmishes against Policarpo Bonilla. Burke and Domingo Vásquez had to flee to neighboring El Salvador. Eventually Burke came to terms with Bonilla and returned. During this same period of political upheaval, the opponents of the Louisiana Lottery succeeded in getting Congress to outlaw the interstate transportation of lottery tickets or lottery advertisements. The U.S. Supreme Court then affirmed that position. Instead of shutting down, the Louisiana Lottery decided to transfer its operations from New Orleans to Honduras. Very little is known, if Burke had any influence in steering the Louisiana Lottery to move to Honduras.\n\nIn June 1904, Burke accepted a position as the assistant superintendent and auditor of the Honduras Interoceanic Railway, one of the government's nationalized railroads. He held this position till August 1906. From 1912 to 1926, Burke held various positions within the National Railway of Honduras, also known as El Ferrocarril Nacional de Honduras, another nationalized railroad. In February 1926 Burke's associates back in New Orleans succeeded in nullifying all of his indictments. Even though Burke was vindicated, he decided to remain in Honduras. In 1928, Burke was on hand to greet Charles Lindbergh who was on a goodwill flight through Central America. This was not Burke's first encounter with a famous aviator. In 1919, Burke had unknowingly hired local Lisandro Garay as a driver. Garay would later become famous as an aviator in his own right, picking up the moniker — the \"Honduran Lindbergh.\"\n\nBurke died on September 24, 1928 at the Hotel Ritz in Tegucigalpa. He was predeceased by his wife Susan Elizabeth (Gaines) by more than a decade. She died July 21, 1916. Burke's only son, and only child, Lindsey, died in the Congo Free State more than two decades before Burke. In 1895, Lindsey had volunteered for service in the \"Force Publique\" in the Congo Free State, where he was commissioned as a lieutenant. About a year later, he was killed when he and three other officers were leading a contingent of fifty men to suppress an uprising of African natives. The men scattered, when natives ambushed their party; Lindsey, with the other three officers, fought until they were hacked down and slashed to pieces. Burke bequeathed half of his property to the government of Honduras, the remainder to relatives in the U.S. Because of measures taken by the Honduran government, Burke's heirs in the U.S. received nothing.\n\n"}
{"id": "46697210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46697210", "title": "Epigenetics of human development", "text": "Epigenetics of human development\n\nDevelopment before birth, including gametogenesis, embryogenesis, and fetal development, is the process of body development from the gametes are formed to eventually combine into a zygote to when the fully developed organism exits the uterus. Epigenetic processes are vital to fetal development due to the need to differentiate from a single cell to a variety of cell types that are arranged in such a way to produce cohesive tissues, organs, and systems.\n\nEpigenetic modifications such as methylation of CpGs (a dinucleotide composed of a 2'-deoxycytosine and a 2' deoxyguanosine) and histone tail modifications allow activation or repression of certain genes within a cell, in order to create cell memory either in favor of using a gene or not using a gene. These modifications can either originate from the parental DNA, or can be added to the gene by various proteins and can contribute to differentiation. Processes that alter the epigenetic profile of a gene include production of activating or repressing protein complexes, usage of non-coding RNAs to guide proteins capable of modification, and the proliferation of a signal by having protein complexes attract either another protein complex or more DNA in order to modify other locations in the gene.\n\nGene expression refers to the transcription of a gene but the RNA produced does not necessarily have to encode a protein product. Transcription may produce so called noncoding RNA products such as tRNA and regulatory RNA. Repression may refer to the decrease in transcription of a gene or inhibition of a protein. Proteins are often inhibited by binding the active site or causing a conformational change so that the active site can no longer bind. By making these alterations, proteins, like transcription factors, may bind DNA less or some protein may be inhibited so that it becomes a block in a signaling cascade and certain genes will then not be induced to be expressed. Repression can occur pre- or post-transcriptionally. Methylating the DNA or the modifying the histones that the DNA wraps around is one example that commonly leads to repression. Pre-transcriptional repression can also occur by altering the proteins that allow transcription to occur, namely the polymerase complex. Proteins can sit on the DNA strand and serve as a kind of block to polymerase proteins, halting them from transcribing. Post-transcriptional repression generally refers to the degradation of the RNA product or binding the RNA with proteins so that it cannot be translated or carry out its function.\n\nDNA methylation in humans and most other mammals refers to the methylation of a CpG. Methylation of these cytosines are common in DNA, and in sufficient numbers can prevent proteins from attaching to the DNA by obscuring the domain binding site's matching DNA to the protein. Regions in which cytosines prior to guanines are clustered and highly unmethylated are called CpG islands, and often serve as promoters, or transcription start sites.\n\nHistone modifications are modifications made to the amino acid residues in the tails of the histones that either restrict the histone's ability to bind to DNA or boost the histone's ability to bind to DNA. Histone modifications also act as sites for proteins to attach, which then further alter the gene's expression. Two common histone modifications are acetylation and methylation. Acetylation is when a protein adds an acetyl group to a lysine in a histone tail in order to restrict the ability of the histone to bind to DNA. This acetylation is commonly found on lysine 9 of histone 3, notated as H3K9ac. This results in the DNA being more open to transcription, due to the decreased binding to the histone. Methylation, meanwhile, is when a protein adds a methyl group to a lysine in a histone tail, although more than one methyl group can be added at a time. Two sites for histone methylation are common in current studies: trimethylation of lysine 4 on histone 3 (H3K4me3), which causes activation, and trimethylation of lysine 27 on histone 3, which causes repression (H3K27me3).\n\nCis acting elements refer to mechanisms that act on the same chromosome they come from, usually either in the same region from which they were produced or a region very close to this origin region. For example, a long non-coding RNA that is produced at one location silences the same or a different location on the same chromosome. Trans acting elements, however, are gene products from one location that act on a different chromosome, either the other in a chromosomal pair, or on a different chromosome from a separate chromosome pair. An example of this is a long non coding RNA from Hox gene C silences Hox gene D on a different chromosome, from a different chromosomal pair.\n\nHox genes are genes in humans that regulate body plan development. Humans have four sets of Hox genes, numbering 39 genes altogether, all of which aid in the differentiation of cells by location. Hox genes are activated early in the development of the embryo, in order to plan the development of the differing structures of the body. They also show colinearity with the body plan, meaning that the order of the Hox genes is similar to the expression levels of the Hox genes on the anterior-posterior axis. This colinearity allows for a spatial and temporal activation of genes in order to produce a proper body structure.\n\nHox genes are regulated using a variety of epigenetic mechanisms, including the use of lncRNAs such as HOTAIR, the Trithorax (TrxG) group of proteins, and the Polycomb (PcG) group of proteins.\n\nThe PcG and TrxG genes that produce protein complexes responsible for continuing the activation and the repression patterns in the Hox genes initially formed by the maternal factors. PcG genes are responsible for repressing chromatin in Hox clusters meant to be inactivated in the differentiated cell. PcG proteins repress genes by forming polycomb repressive complexes, such as PRC1 and PRC2. PRC2 complexes repress by trimethylating histone 3 at lysine 27 through histone methyltransferases Ezh2 and Ezh1. PRC2 is rectruited by many elements, including CpG islands. PRC1, meanwhile, ubiquitinates H2AK119 using Ring1A/B's E3 ligase activity, causing stalling of RNA polymerase II. Furthermore, Ring1B, a member of the PRC1 complex, also represses Hox genes with Me118, Mph2, and RYBP by compacting the chromatin into higher-order structures. TrxG genes, meanwhile, are responsible for activating genes by trimethylating lysine 4 of the histone H3 tail. Genes with similar transcriptional marks tend to cluster together in distinct structures. In bivalent domains, both of these marks are present, indicating genes that are silenced but can be rapidly activated when necessary.\n\n231 ncRNAs are present in the four Hox gene cassettes. Similarly to the Hox protein-coding genes, the ncRNAs show differential expression according to the cell's location on the anterior-posterior and proximal-distal axes. These lncRNAs can act either on the set of genes which they are present in, or can act on a separate gene set within the Hox genes.\n\nHOTTIP is a long non-coding RNA that assists in regulating the HoxA genes. It is produced from the 5' end of the HoxA gene cassette, and activates HoxA genes. Loops within the chromosome bring HOTTIP closer to its targets; this allows HOTTIP to bind to WDR5/MLL protein complexes to aid in trimethylation of lysine 4 of histone 3.\n\nHOTAIR is a long non-coding RNA that assists in regulating the HoxD genes. It is produced in the HoxC cassette, near the divide between expressed and unexpressed genes, and represses HoxD genes. HOTAIR acts by attaching to Suz12 in the PRC2 complex, and then guides this complex to the genes to be repressed. PRC2 then trimethylates the lysine 27 of histone 3, repressing the gene of interest.\n\nIn female humans, Barr bodies are defined as the condensed and inactivated X-chromosome that is found in every cell of the adult. Because females have two nearly identical X chromosomes, one of them must be silenced so that the expression levels of the genes on the X-chromosome are of the proper dosage. Thus, males and females have the same level of X-chromosome expression, despite being born with one X for males and two for females. This is also why individuals with Klinefelter syndrome, a disease in which more than two sex chromosomes are present in the body, have fewer symptoms than individuals with other types of aneuploidy, which are often fatal before birth.\n\nInactivation of one of the X chromosomes is initiated by a long non coding RNA called Xist. This lncRNA is expressed on the same chromosome it represses, known as working in cis. Recent research has shown that a repeat element in the RNA of Xist causes PRC2 to bind to the RNA. Another part of the RNA binds to the X-chromosome positioning PRC2 such that it can methylate various regions on the X-chromosome. This methylation causes other factors like histone deacetylases (HDACs) to bind to the chromosome and propagate heterochromatin formation, even into active gene regions. This heterochromatin greatly reduces, if not completely silences gene expression of the Barr body. Xist will be continuously created to maintain a condensed and silenced Barr body.\n\nIn embryonic development, when the zygote is still composed of just a few cells, each cell of the zygote will randomly chose an X-chromosome to condense and silence. From then on, the daughter cells of that cell will always silence the same X-chromosome as the parent cell it propagated from. This creates what is known as the “mosaic effect,” in which differential X-chromosome expression creates differing genotypes throughout a single organism. This may or may not be evident in females, depending on how the genes of the X-chromosomes affect phenotype. If the alleles for a gene are identical on both X-chromosomes, then you will see no difference between the cells that chose one X over the other. If the alleles are different for, say, fur color, then you may see patches of one color and patches of the other color. In calico cats the mosaic pattern of X inactivation is easily seen because a gene affecting coat color is carried on the X, resulting in patches of color on the coat. The mosaic pattern of X inactivation may also determine how penetrant a disease is, if the disease allele is present on one X-chromosome and not the other. The organism may have few cells in which the diseased allele has not been condensed, leading to little expression of the disease allele. This is referred to as skewed X-chromosome inactivation.\n\nImprinting is defined as the differential expression of paternal and maternal alleles of a gene, due to epigenetic marks introduced onto the chromosome during the production of egg and sperm. These marks usually lead to differential expression of the specific sets of genes from the maternal and paternal chromosomes. Imprinting is carried out through many epigenetic mechanisms like methylation, histone modifications, rearrangement of higher order chromatin structure, non-coding RNAs, and interfering RNAs.\n\nA single evolutionary purpose of imprinting is still unknown, since the mechanisms and effects seem to be so diverse. One hypothesis states that imprinting occurs in order to carry out the evolutionary goal of the parent, that being the differential partition of resources. The male seeks to provide maximum resources for his offspring so that his genes may be passed on successfully to the next generation, whereas the female must partition resources between all her offspring, and so must limit resources given.\n\nAnother hypothesis states that imprinting may help protect the female from ovarian trophoblastic disease and parthenogenesis. Trophoblastic disease occurs when a sperm fertilizes an egg with no nucleus and a cancer-like mass forms in the placenta. Parthenogenesis occurs when an unfertilized egg develops into a fully functional organism that is genetically identical to the parent, who is female in the case of animals or both sexes, in the case of plants. This does not occur naturally in mammals. In most animals, especially mammals, uniparental inheritance of chromosomes is often lethal or results in developmental abnormalities, sometimes physically but often cognitively. Other hypotheses point to the function of imprinting as a way of establishing the proper amount of expression or functional haploidy, much like silencing the extra X-chromosome in females (see section on Barr bodies). Imprinting may help in the differentiation of cells by silencing pluripotency genes or other developmental genes. Supporting this hypothesis, imprinted genes have been shown to differ in their expression between tissue types in the same organism, pointing to divergent outcomes as a result of developmental events during embryogenesis. Regardless of whether there is a single purpose for imprinting, numerous studies have shown that a normal and functional organism cannot be made without the various imprinting mechanisms.\n\nIn mammals, imprinted genes are often clustered in the genome, probably because they share transcriptional regulators or regulatory regions that impact the expression of multiple genes. It is easier for a lncRNA to silence multiple genes if they are closer together, making silencing more efficient. In some cases, when a gene is transcribed it overlaps another region nearby or opposite (antisense) to it, often silencing it. In the case of the Ifg2 and H19 genes, CTCF, a transcriptional repressor protein, is involved. CTCF binds to the unmethylated maternal ICR region but not the methylated paternal ICR region. ICR is a shared control region of Ifg2 and H19 that, when deleted, results in the loss of imprinting of these genes. CTCF then binds another region of the chromosome, creating a loop where Igf2 is blocked from transcription, but H19 is not, resulting in the maternal chromosome expressing H19 but not Igf2. CTCF has been shown to directly interact with Suz12, a subunit of PRC2, in order to silence the Ifg2 promoter region through hypermethylation. Conversely, the paternal H19 promoter is highly methylated during embryogenesis so that Ifg2 will not be silenced. Should CTCF fail to bind, H19 on the maternal chromosome has reduced expression and Igf2 is not silenced properly, resulting in biallelic expression. Mice have homologues of these genes, but silence them in a different way, where biallelic expression occurs and then antisense RNA is used to silence one of the genes.\n\nAirn is an lncRNA used to silence Igf2r and other surrounding genes. In the mechanism to silence Igf2r, the transcription of the lncRNA Airn silences the expression of Igf2r, as opposed to an active repression mechanism. Airn is the antisense gene of Ifg2r, so if Airn is being transcribed, the transcriptional machinery may cover a part of or the entire promoter region of Igf2r, so RNA polymerase cannot bind to the promoter region of Igf2r in order to initiate transcription. This mechanism is very efficient in that Igf2r is silenced by transcription of Airn, while the RNA product silences other genes near Igf2r. The imprinting mechanisms described above work on the chromosome that the Airn lncRNA is produced, but there are many other imprinted genes that work to silence genes on other chromosomes or to silence the similar allele(s) on the opposing chromosome of the same pair. Some imprinted genes code for regulatory RNA elements such as lncRNA, small nucleolar RNA, and micro RNA, so the expression of these genes results in the silencing of some other gene.\n\nFrom these examples, researchers have seen similar patterns in developmental genetics. It is imperative that many genes are silenced at the right time so that cells can maintain their identity and expressional integrity. Failure to do so often leads to symptoms such as cognitive abnormalities, if not fatality.\n\nPRC2 (Polycomb Repressive Complex 2) is a complex of proteins that repress chromatin by histone methylation and by working to recruit other proteins that help further the repression of chromatin. The structure of this complex and group of mechanisms used by this complex are highly conserved across various eukaryotic species. Very few species have duplicates of these complexes in the genome beyond PRC1 and PRC2.\n\nPRC2 is a multi-protein complex composed of four major subunits (E2H1/2, SUZ12, EED, and RbAp46/48) and three variable subunits (AEBP2, JARID2, and PCLs). The three variable subunits are used for catalysis of enzymatic reactions or binding to specific regions, not for repression of genes or chromatin. Similar to a zinc finger, AEBP2 docks onto the major grooves of DNA to assist in binding. PRC2 is usually recruited by other proteins or lncRNa and then catalyzes the trimethylation of lysine 27 of histone 3 tails (H3K27me3. This methylation is thought to cause repression by steric hindrance of RNA polymerase II. Even though the polymerase is not prevented from binding, the polymerase, after beginning transcription, will pause at H3K27me3 marks. The short transcript produced by the pausing of the polymerase often recruits regulatory complexes, like PRC2. Thus, PRC2 represses by two mechanisms: by directly altering the structure of the chromatin through methylation or by binding of transcripts.\n\nPRC2 has been shown in many experiments to be necessary for the proper formation of organs, starting with the maintenance of cellular differentiation and silencing of pluripotency genes. The exact mechanism in early embryogenesis that induces cells to differentiate is still unclear, but this mechanism has been closely linked to protein kinase A (PKA). Since the PRC2 complex has sites able to be phosphorylated and has differentiated behavior based on the level of phosphorylation, a logical hypothesis can be made that PKA affects PRC2 behavior and may phosphorylate PRC2, activating the protein and starting the methylation cascade that silences genes.\n\nExperimentally, PRC2 has been shown to be highly enriched at the Hox genes and near developmental gene regulators, resulting in their methylation. Some time after the second or third cleavage event, PRC2 begins to bind to these developmental genes, even though they have the markers for highly active genes like H3K9me3. This has been described as the “leaking” of PRC2 binding. Variable binding will cause some genes to be silenced before others, causing differentiation, but this is likely regulated by the organism. What causes the specificity of cell differentiation is still unknown but some hypotheses say it largely has to do with the cell environment and the “awareness” of the cells to each other, considering all cells in this stage contain identical genomes at this point. The maintained cell lines after this differentiation event are largely dependent on PRC2. Without it, pluripotency genes will still be active, causing the cells to be unstable and reversion back to a stem cell-like stage where the cell would have to undergo differentiation again in order to return to its normal state. Properly differentiated cells have silenced pluripotency genes.\n\nAlthough PRC2 seems to have a very simple mechanism and works on many genes and chromosomes across the genome, it often has very specific binding regions and has been observed to localize to specific genes to cause their repression. Recent research shows that it probably does this through the binding of long non coding RNAs (lncRNAs). Xist and Hox genes have both been studied extensively and display this mechanism very well. The lncRNA that the complex binds does not necessarily need to hybridize to the target region in order to silence it, as evidenced by the PRC2-lncRNA complex working on regions other than the region from which this complex was produced. However, the three-dimensional configuration of the RNA often gives the complex specific localization to regions where the RNA is created to bind.\n\nPRC2 is also highly associated with intergenic regions, subtelomeric regions, and long-terminal repeat transposons. PRC2 acts to create heterochromatin in these regions through similar mechanisms to the mechanism used to repress genes. Heterochromatin formation is imperative in these regions in order to regulate gene expression, maintain chromatin shape, prevent degradation of the chromosome, and reduce the event of transposon “hopping” or spontaneous recombination.\n\nThus, PRC2 is not only essential to the initiation of differentiation in development, but also for maintaining heterochromatin in all cell stages and for silencing genes and chromosome regions that would undo the cell differentiation that had already occurred or negatively affect the survival of the cell or the organism as a whole.\n\nLong non-coding RNAs, or lncRNAs, are RNA transcripts produced by RNA polymerase II that are not translated but participate in the regulation of gene expression. Long non-coding RNAs are used in various epigenetic processes in development, including the regulation of Hox genes, as well as in the creation of Barr bodies.\n\nIn Hox genes, long non-coding RNAs allow for communication between different Hox genes and different sets of Hox genes in order to coordinate body plan in the cell. One example of a long non-coding RNA that coordinates between Hox gene sets is HOTAIR, which is an RNA transcript produced in the HoxC cassette that represses transcription of a large number of genes in the HoxD cassette. Thus, HOTAIR regulates the HoxD genes from the HoxC genes in order to coordinate transcription of the Hox genes.\n\nIn human cells with more than one X chromosome, two long non-coding RNAs are produced: Tsix is produced by one X chromosome, and Xist is produced by all of the other X chromosomes. Tsix is a long non-coding RNA that prevents repression of an X chromosome, while Xist is a long non-coding RNA that acts to repress and condense an entire X chromosome. The actions of Xist serve to create a Barr body in the cell.\n\nNeat1 is an lncRNA which assists in forming the structure of nuclear structures known as paraspeckles: nuclear bodies which contain RNA-binding proteins. They control gene expression in the nucleus by retaining RNA in the nucleus that would otherwise alter gene expression. Paraspeckles form a significant portion of the corpus luteum of the ovary; in Neat1 impaired mice, corpus luteum formation is highly dysfunctional, causing ovarian defects and lowered progesterone levels resulting in a lack of pregnancy in Neat1 deficient mice. Neat1 assists in regulation of luteal genes by preventing the protein Sfpq from inhibiting Nr5a1 and Sp1, allowing luteal genes to be regularly transcribed. Neat1 is regulated by histone deacetylases.\n\nEvf2 is a lncRNA that acts in forebrain neuronal differentiation during embryonic development. Evf2 is transcribed from an ultraconserved region, or a region that is very highly conserved among most vertebrate species, within the region from Dlx5 to Dlx6. This region is a target for SHH, a highly important regulator of central nervous system development. Evf2, when transcribed, recruits Dlx and Mecp2 through cis and trans-acting mechanisms to the Dlx5/6 region in the ventral forebrain, causing GABAergic interneurons in the hippocampus to be formed. Evf2 acts by forming a complex with Dlx4 that increases Dlx4 transcription activation ability and stability.\n\nMalat1, another neurological lncRNA, causes increased synaptic function and greater amounts of dendrite development. Increases of Malat1 increase neuronal density, while decreases of Malat1 decrease neuronal density. Malat1 acts by regulating the expression levels of Nlgn1 and SynCAM1 which are important genes in synapse formation.\n\nThe lncRNA Airn is an lncRNA that regulates Igf2r expression. Igf2r is a gene which expresses a receptor for insulin-like growth factor 2, and assists in lysosomal enzyme transport, activation of growth factors, and degradation of insulin-like growth factor 2. This lncRNA is an RNA modified by imprinting, leading to Airn expression in the paternal allele, but not in the maternal allele. Airn acts by cis-acting silencing of the Igf2r region through overlapping the Igf2r gene through the antisense transcript encoded by Airn. Airn is silenced in the maternal allele through Igf2r transcription. In the brain, however, Igf2r alleles are both expressed due to Airn mediation being repressed in neuronal cells.\n\nBromodomain protein 4, or BRD4, is a protein which binds to acetylated tails of histones H3 and H4 to aid active gene transcription by decompaction using the bromodomain with the assistance of the acetylated K5 on H4. BRD4 is a member of the BET protein family, which includes other bromodomain-containing proteins and their homologues in other species. BRD4 is a protein which functions in both gene activation and repression in cell cycle control and DNA replication. BRD4 functions by binding to the acetylated tails and then attaching to other proteins, allowing those proteins to \neither activate or repress the histones next to BRD4.\n\nBRD4 aids in early cell development by activating pluripotent genes through interacting with Oct4 and recruiting P-TEFb (positive transcription elongation factor). By occupying pluripotent genes and X-chromosome inactivation lncRNAs in their regulatory regions, BRD4 enhances activation of these DNA regions. BRD4 enhances this activation by recruiting P-TEFb; if either BRD4 or P-TEFb is not functional, pluripotent gene transcription is blocked, and the cell differentiates into a neuroectodermal cell.\n\nBRD4 can act as epigenetic bookmarking throughout the cell cycle, including after transcription, due to its association with P-TEFb, allowing BRD4 to enhance RNAPII.\n\nBRD4 also assists in the hyperacetylation of histones in the sperm nucleus. Histone hyperacetylation, the addition of acetyl groups to lysines on the amino tails of histones in an amount much larger than normal, is believed to assist in histone removal from the sperm nucleus.\n\nExamples of diseases caused by epigenetic dysfunction in development include:\n\n"}
{"id": "38298064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38298064", "title": "Giovani e belli", "text": "Giovani e belli\n\nGiovani e belli is a 1996 Italian comedy film directed by Dino Risi at his last film. It is loosely based on \"Poveri ma belli\", directed by the same Risi in 1957.\n\nGino and Luke are two Roman boys: one's rich, the other is a proletarian. Both the two are in love for a gypsy named Zorilla. But the two young men have to deal with the leader of the band of gypsies where lives Zorilla, who is not willing to entrust the girl with two young men. When Zorilla gets the consent of the boss, she goes to live with Luke and Gino, creating havoc in their families.\n\n"}
{"id": "6770747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6770747", "title": "Hassane", "text": "Hassane\n\nThe Hassane is a name for the traditionally dominant warrior tribes of the Sahrawi-Moorish areas of present-day Mauritania, southern Morocco and Western Sahara. Although lines were blurred by intermarriage and tribal re-affiliation, the Hassane were considered descendants of the Arab Maqil tribe Beni Hassan (hence the name). They held power over Sanhadja Berber-descended zawiya (religious) and znaga (servant) tribes, extracting from these the horma tax in exchange for armed protection. \n\nOccasionally, such as in the case of the important Reguibat tribe, Zawāyā Berber groups would rise to Hassane status by growing in power and prestige and taking up armed raiding; they would then often Arabize culturally to fit the prevailing image of Hassane tribes as \"original\" Arabs.\n\nA good example of a Hassane tribe is the Río de Oro-centered Oulad Delim, which is considered as among the purest descendants of the Beni Hassan.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23034778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23034778", "title": "Lead-based paint in the United States", "text": "Lead-based paint in the United States\n\nLead-based paint was widely used in the United States, because of its durability. The United States banned the manufacture of lead-based house paint in 1978 due to health concerns.\n\nLead has long been considered to be a harmful environmental pollutant. Cited cases of lead poisoning date back to the early 20th century. In the July 1904 edition of its monthly publication, paint manufacturer Sherwin-Williams reported the dangers of paint containing lead, noting that a French expert had deemed lead paint \"poisonous in a large degree, both for the workmen and for the inhabitants of a house painted with lead colors.\"\n\nCongress banned the use of lead-based paint in residential structures and environments in 1971, and the Consumer Product Safety Commission followed with implementing regulations, effective in 1978. Additional regulations regarding lead abatement, testing and related issues have been issued by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).\n\nMuch of the government's response to the lead public health problems in the 1970s can be credited to the work of epidemiologist and pediatrician Philip J. Landrigan, who conducted detailed studies of lead poisoning near lead refineries, as well as the effects of lead in gasoline.\n\nIn 1991, the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services, Louis Wade Sullivan, called lead the \"number one environmental threat to the health of children in the United States.\" Humans are exposed to lead in many ways. These can be through air, drinking water, food, contaminated soil, deteriorating paint, and dust. Airborne lead enters the body by breathing or swallowing lead particles or dust once it has settled. Old lead-based paint is the most significant source of lead exposure in the U.S. Most homes built before 1960 contain heavily leaded paint. Some homes built as recently as 1978 may also contain lead paint.\n\nThe U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s (CDC) National Center for Health Statistics monitors blood lead levels in the United States. Experts use a new level based on the U.S. population of children ages 1-5 years who are in the top 2.5% of children when tested for lead in their blood (when compared to children who are exposed to more lead than most children). Currently that is 5 micrograms per deciliter of lead in blood.\n\nThe U.S. government defines \"lead-based paint\" as any \"paint, surface coating that contains lead equal to or exceeding one milligram per square centimeter (1.0 mg/cm2) or 0.5% by weight.\" Some states have adopted this or similar definitions of \"lead-based paint.\" These definitions are used to enforce regulations that apply to certain activities conducted in housing constructed prior to 1978, such as abatement, or the permanent elimination of a \"lead-based paint hazard.\"\n\nThe U.S. government and many states have regulations regarding lead-based paint. Many of them apply to evaluating a property for lead-based paint. There are two different testing procedures that are similar but yield different information. Lead-based paint inspections will evaluate all painted surfaces in a complex to determine where lead-based paint, if any, is present. The procedures for lead inspections is outlined in the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Guidelines, Chapter 7, 1997 Revision. The other testing is a lead-based paint risk assessment. In this testing, only deteriorated painted surfaces are tested and dust wipe samples are collected. This information will help the risk assessor determine if there are any \"lead hazards\". Many property owners decided to get a combination of both tests to determine where the lead-based paint is present and what hazards are present as well. Risk assessments are outlined in the HUD Guidelines, Chapter 5. In addition, if a child is poisoned in a property, the owner may be required to perform abatement (permanent elimination of the lead hazard).\n\nIn 1996, the Lead-Based Paint Disclosure Regulation was enacted. It requires owners of pre-1978 \"target housing\" to disclose to potential buyers or renters all known information about the presence of lead-based paint and/or lead-based paint hazards in the property. It requires that the potential buyer or tenant be given the lead information pamphlet, \"Protect Your Family From Lead In Your Home,\" or other EPA-approved pamphlet as well as a specific disclosure statement. The option of whether to test for the presence of lead-based paint is left to the owner, so long as a decision not to test is disclosed.\n\nThe EPA issued a new regulation called 'Renovation, Repair and Painting' (RRP) regarding the renovation of residential housing and child-occupied buildings built before 1978 on April 22, 2008. The rule (Federal Register: July 15, 2009 (Volume 74, Number 134)) became effective April 22, 2010. Under the rule, contractors performing renovation, repair and painting projects that disturb lead-based coatings (including lead paint, shellac or varnish) in child-occupied facilities built before 1978 must be certified and must follow specific work practices to prevent lead contamination. EPA’s RRP rule impacts many construction trades, including general contractors and special trade contractors, painters, plumbers, carpenters, glaziers, wood floor refinishers and electricians. Activities performed by all of these trades can disturb lead-based paint and have the potential to create hazardous lead dust. For most individuals, eight hours of training is required. However, individuals who have successfully completed renovation courses developed by HUD or EPA, or an abatement worker or supervisor course accredited by EPA or an authorized State or Tribal program, can become certified renovators by taking a four-hour EPA-accredited renovator refresher training.\n\nThe RRP rule is controversial, primarily due to the increased cost remodelers incur as a result of having to set up dust containment apparatuses, including sealing off doorways and HVAC ducts with plastic. Various national trade associations have been very vocal in their opposition, some going so far as to sue the EPA. Though the EPA considered expanding the rule to require contractors to pass a third-party dust wipe clearance exam these revisions were rejected in July, 2011.\n\nAlthough the rule was not fully implemented until April 2010, certain elements were required before, and others required attention well before April 2010. \n\n\nThe state of Rhode Island filed a public nuisance lawsuit in 1999 (\"State of Rhode Island v. Lead Industries Association\") to force the former manufacturers of lead paint to pay for the cleanup of current lead hazards in Rhode Island. After a trial that ended in a hung jury in 2002, the state refiled the case. In February 2006, the jury decided in favor of the state and said that Sherwin-Williams, NL Industries and Millennium Holdings would have to pay for the clean-up of lead paint in the state. On July 1, 2008, the Rhode Island Supreme Court in a landmark decision overturned the verdict, dismissing the case stating that \"the State of Rhode Island 'cannot allege' facts sufficient to state a claim for common law public nuisance against lead pigment manufacturers.\"\n\nIn 2007, the Missouri Supreme Court and the New Jersey Supreme Court also rejected the use of the public nuisance theory in lead paint lawsuits, leaving Ohio and California as the only two remaining public nuisance cases.\n\nThe California Supreme Court has reviewed the contingency fee agreement between the municipalities and private counsel. A briefing schedule is currently being set. But in recent rulings the Supreme Court held the contingent fee agreement is improper stating that “When a government attorney has a personal interest in the litigation, the neutrality so essential to the system is violated.”\n\nWhile the City of Columbus, Ohio voluntarily dropped its lawsuit against the paint industry after the Rhode Island decision, the State of Ohio's suit remains.\n\nHumans can be poisoned during unsafe renovations or repainting jobs on housing that has lead paint. Therefore, homeowners are encouraged to carefully stabilize any deteriorated (peeling, chipping, cracking, etc.) paint in a lead-safe manner. More than 250,000 children in the United States have significantly harmful levels of lead in their bodies. There is no safe level of exposure.\n\nWorking in a lead-safe manner means avoiding dry sanding, dry scraping, removing paint by torching/burning, the use of heat guns over 1100°F, machine-sanding or grinding without HEPA filtered dust collection or HEPA-filtered vacuum. These methods are now prohibited by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) because they have been proved to create significant levels of lead dust during remodeling, renovation and painting. They must be avoided, especially in properties where children under age six reside. Adult workers using unsafe work practices or improper protective gear may also become lead-poisoned.\n\nThere are specialized paint strippers for use with lead paint such as \"Lead-Out\" paint stripper, \"Strip-Tox\", \"Lead-X\", and others. Some of these specialized strippers render lead non-hazardous decreasing the risks associated with lead paint removal.\n\nHUD requires a dust test for \"clearance\" at the end of any remodeling or repainting job be performed by a third-party professional who is independent of the entity performing the work. \n\nLead evaluations of paint are usually performed by a field testing method known as X-Ray fluorescence (XRF) using equipment such as the Olympus Innov-X LBP4000, RMD LPA-1, or the Thermo Scientific's Niton. XRF is the preferred method because it is not destructive and a reading is usually obtained in about 4–8 seconds with a 95% accuracy at the 2-sigma level.\n\nInstruments of this sort have an inconclusive range, and when a reading falls in this range (range is different for each instrument and model), a paint chip may be taken and sent for laboratory analysis. Testing for lead in dust, water, and air also require laboratory analysis. Commercially available lead test kits are often used to test for the presence of lead, but they are not reliable and not authorized by HUD to be used in determining if a property is lead-based-paint free.\n\nThe home's year of construction can be a clue as to the likelihood that lead is present in its paint. As of April 2011, 87% of homes built before 1940 contain at least some lead paint, homes built between 1940 and 1960 have a 69% chance of containing such paint, homes built between 1960 and 1978 have a 24% chance of containing lead paint, while homes built after 1978 are unlikely to have lead-based paint. The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development's Office of Healthy Homes and Lead Hazard Control performs regular studies of housing-based health hazards in the U.S.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35028720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35028720", "title": "Lemolang language", "text": "Lemolang language\n\nLemolang (self-designation: Limola) is an Austronesian language of Sulawesi, Indonesia. It is spoken in two villages in North Luwu Regency, South Sulawesi.\n"}
{"id": "29240622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29240622", "title": "List of bicycle-sharing systems", "text": "List of bicycle-sharing systems\n\nThis is a list of bicycle-sharing systems, both docked and dockless. As of December 2016, roughly 1000 cities worldwide have a bike-sharing program.\n\nThe following table lists more than 330 active bicycle-sharing systems across the world. Most systems listed allow users to pick up and drop off bicycles at any of the automated stations within the network.\nAdvertising company JCDecaux launched its \"Cyclocity\" programs initially in , Austria in 2003 and in Lyon, France in 2005. The company also started programs in other cities in Europe such as Paris, Córdoba, and Kazan, as well as cities outside of Europe, such as Brisbane, Australia. Payment for using the bikes is done with smart cards.\n\nCompetitor Clear Channel, then operating as Adshel, opened the first example of this in Rennes in 1997, and has several other sites including Oslo, Stockholm, Sandnes and Trondheim, most generally similar to that offered by their competitor.\n\nA different financial model called bicing is used in Barcelona, which is paid for by car owners parking on public streets and not by advertising – which is contracted to JCDecaux in some places.\n\nIn 2001, the city of Vienna implemented a first version of a bike sharing system following the example of Copenhagen. Unfortunately, \"Viennabike\" failed and its shortcomings were fixed in the second implementation called , which started 2003. It is operated by and comprises 1500 bikes distributed to 121 stations with 3097 slots. In 2015, more than 1 million trips and more than 100,000 new registrations were recorded. There is no fee for the first rental hour, additional hours are charged starting with €1.\n\nThe Villo! system was launched in Brussels in 2009, and is operated by JCDecaux. It's the company's second biggest bicycle rental system after Paris in terms of quantity. At the beginning of April 2015, it had 4115 bikes across 346 stations.\n\nIn Antwerp, a bike system called Velo went public in 2011. It is operated by Clear Channel and registered journeys in 2013.\n\nBurgas is the first Bulgarian city to introduce a public rent-a-bike system. The scheme is called VeloBurgas and has 10 access points with 120 bikes in operation. The rent-a-bike system works with cards, SMS, and POS. Prices range from 0.50 to 1 lev per hour.\n\nBike in Action operates in the greater Nicosia area, similar to programmes employed in various cities of Cyprus. Bicycles can be found at stations in all participating municipalities (Agios Dometios, Aglandjia, Dali, Engomi, Latsia, Pallouriotissa, Strovolos) and returned after their use at any station. Bike in Action includes more than 310 bikes distributed in 27 full automated Smoove stations, which cover the wide Nicosia area. All the rental stations are connected with the banking system and access to the bikes can be obtained with the use of a credit card.\n\nThe most widespread bike sharing system is called Rekola. It started operating in Prague in 2013. In 2018, it was operating in 8 Czech cities (Prague, Brno, Ostrava, České Budějovice, Liberec, Frýdek-Místek, Teplice and Olomouc) with more than 1000 pink bikes. There are also two smaller providers in Prague: HomePort with docking stations in Karlín district and Velonet in Prague 4 and Brno.\n\nFollowing earlier bike-sharing systems, Denmark introduced the first \"next generation\" bike-sharing system in 1991 in Farsø. This small-scale scheme paved the way for the Copenhagen's \"ByCyklen\" programme, which was introduced in 1995 and was the first large-scale urban bike-sharing programme to feature specially designed bicycles with parts which could not be used on other bikes. Riders paid a refundable deposit at one of 110 special locking bike stands, and the riders then had unlimited use of the bike within a specified 'city bike zone'. The fine for not returning a bicycle or leaving the bike-sharing zone was strictly enforced by the police. The founders hoped to completely finance the programme by selling advertising space on the bicycles. This funding source quickly proved to be insufficient, and the city of Copenhagen took over the administration of the programme, funding most of the programme costs through appropriations from city revenues. Since it was free to the user, there is no return on the capital invested by the municipality, and a considerable amount of public funds was constantly used to keep the system in service. In 2013 a new version was expected to be introduced but the municipality of Copenhagen temporarily withdrew its support and there were no free bicycles for most of 2013. Copenhagen municipality changed its mind and a new version was introduced in late 2013.\n\nCopenhagen was among the first cities in the world to have a free bike scheme called \"City Bikes\", which was paid by advertising on the bikes.\n\nIn late 2013, Copenhagen started a new program with electric bikes. The first phase of this program, with 1860 bikes and 105 docking stations, is to be completed in early 2016.\n\nCity Bikes scheme in Helsinki launched in 2016, run by Helsinki City Transport (HKL), in collaboration with Moventia and Smoove. In the summer of 2017, City Bikes had 1500 bikes in 150 locations.\n\nIn 1974, the French city of La Rochelle launched a free bike-sharing programme, Vélos Jaunes (Yellow Bikes), featuring unisex bicycles which were free to take and use. In terms of public usage and acceptance, it is regarded today as one of the first truly successful bike-sharing programmes. The programme continues today, albeit in modified form (rental charges apply after the first two hours, and personal identification is required for all bike rentals).\nFrench cities offering a bicycle sharing system include Marseille, Lyon, Bordeaux, Nice, Toulouse, Rennes, Rouen, La Rochelle, Orléans, Montpellier, Nantes, Lille, Dunkirk, Strasbourg, Clermont-Ferrand, Avignon, Saint-Étienne, Chalon sur Saône, Belfort, Lorient, Annemasse, Valence, and Aix-en-Provence.\n\nThe launch of Velo'v in Lyon, France in 2005 was an effort to improve on the disappointing performance of the traditional municipal public bike-sharing model. In an attempt to improve upon the results of the discontinued \"Bikeabout\" program at the University of Portsmouth, \"Velo'v\" utilised \"smart\" technology to reduce theft, user damage, and vandalism. Considered to be a city less than friendly to cyclists prior to 2005, the \"Velo'v\" programme is credited with stimulating an increase of 500% in bicycle trips within the city, a quarter of which used the bike sharing system.\n\nA resurgence in bike sharing programmes is attributed by many to the launching in 2007 of Paris's Vélib', a network of 18,000 specially designed bicycles distributed among 1,230 stations throughout Paris. Vélib', inspired by Lyon's seminal \"Vélo'v\" project, is now considered the second largest bike-sharing system of its kind in the world. 80 percent of Vélib's original 20,600 bicycles have been destroyed or stolen. Some Vélib' cycles have been found in Eastern Europe and North Africa, while others have been dumped in the Seine River, hung from lampposts, or abandoned on the roadside in various states of disrepair, forcing the City of Paris to reimburse the programme operator an estimated $2 million per year for excess costs under its contractual agreement.\n\nGermany has bike-sharing programmes in many cities, including Aachen, Berlin, Cologne, Düsseldorf, Frankfurt, Hamburg (StadtRAD Hamburg), Karlsruhe, Kassel (Konrad), Mainz (MVGmeinRad), Munich and Stuttgart. The station-based system Metropolradruhr is located in the Ruhr Area.\nBike-sharing stations are also located in over 50 ICE railway stations.\n\nIn November 2010, Corfu launched EasyBike, which includes one hundred bicycles that are distributed in eight rental stations throughout the town. The method of operation is similar to other such systems in Europe. Residents can obtain a special electronic subscriber card from the Municipality, which gives them access to bicycles and occasional users can use their credit card to rent a bicycle. The system also gives users the ability to obtain a code and gain access to bicycles through an IVR automated system by using their credit card. EasyBike bike sharing system is developed by Brainbox under a Smoove license, which is the first Greek company to implement a bike sharing project in Greece.\n\nThere are also other programmes similar to bicycle sharing systems, which are not automated. The first, running from early 2010, is in the northern suburb of Nea Erithréa, in Attica, while the second is that of the Municipality of Nafpaktos, which has been in operation since mid June 2010. In these programmes, the residents rent the bike directly from the municipality. In the programme implemented in Nea Erithréa, bicycles are rented for one week to six months, on condition that the user must submit to the municipality 75 euros as a guarantee. In Nafpaktos, bicycles are rented for up to two months for free. In 2011, the municipality of Heraklion in Crete purchased 100 bicycles from the bike-sharing company Brainbox, the developer of EasyBike system while free distribution of bicycles from the municipality had already started from April 2010.\n\nIn May 2012, a non-automated system was introduced at the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, in Salonica, Northern Greece. It presents 60 public bikes available for the University community. The system has no electronic rental stations and the delivery and return of the bikes is made by students working part-time on the project.\n\nThe first public bicycle sharing service in Hungary was implemented in Esztergom on 20 September 2013. The Esztergom Bicycle or EBI was developed by Neuzer, a local bicycle manufacturing company.\n\nThe country's second bike sharing system in Szeged is CityBike Szeged. It has been in operation since 1 October 2013.\n\nGyőrBike opened on 7 September 2015 in Győr with 23 docks and 180 bicycles.\n\nThe Kaposvári Tekergő opened on 27 October 2015 in Kaposvár with 4 docking stations, 26 e-bikes and 6 e-rollers.\n\nBudapest has the largest bicycle sharing system in Hungary. Operated jointly by BKK and MOL, the BuBi system was launched in September 2014 and has over 1500 bicycles and 120 docking stations as of November 2018.\n\nIn September 2009, Dublin launched a bike-share scheme known as dublinbikes operated by JCDecaux. With an initial 450 bicycles, the plan reached 1 million uses in less than a year. As of June 2013, the scheme has had fewer than 12 bikes stolen or damaged.\n\nMilan has the largest bike sharing system in Italy, BikeMi, which was launched on 8 December 2008. It is contracted to and operated by Clear Channel on the basis of its SmartBike system. The scheme encompasses 4,650 bicycles, which includes 1,000 electric bicycles and bikes for children. and 280 stations.\nAnother large system exists in Turin. Since 2017, Mobike and OFO dockless systems also operate in Milan and Florence. Several other cities, especially in the north, have smaller bike sharing systems.\n\nIn 1965, the group Provo painted fifty bicycles white and scattered them unlocked in downtown Amsterdam for everyone to use freely. The bicycles were both taken by people, and impounded by the authorities, as a city ordinance forbade leaving unlocked bikes in public places.\n\nIn September 1997, a pilot project for a public share system, based on the UK's \"Grippa\" racks was established in Rotterdam, for use by commuters, but it was terminated the following year due to poor functionality of the electronic bike racks.\nThe Netherlands has a single nationwide bike sharing program, called \"OV-fiets\", which means 'public transport bike'. The system has 8500 bikes in 252 locations, mainly train stations, all over the country. Membership is required (annual fee €0.01, €3.85 per rental day) and can be combined with an OV-chipkaart. The program, which started on a small scale in 2003, has enjoyed a steadily increasing popularity with over 1.53 million rides registered in 2014. The nature of the Dutch bike sharing program differs from that of programs in other countries partly because the already high bike ownership of the population. Its interconnection with the public transport network allows it to fill the need of people who also want to continue traveling by bike from the station of their destination.\n\nThe first Norwegian bicycle sharing system was introduced in Sandnes in 1996. It consisted of 225 green DBS bikes that were free to use in the fashion of a 1st generation bicycle sharing system. The Sandnes system was converted to a 3rd generation system in 2002. In 1998, Trondheim introduced a 2nd generation system with 200 bicycles modeled after that of Copenhagen's. The Trondheim system was converted into a 3rd generation system in 2005.\nThe following cities are known to have city bike arrangements. Some are prepaid automatic (example Oslo), some are manual (like in Tønsberg). In 2001, Drammen introduced a 3rd generation system together with the Clear Channel.\n\nThe first bike-sharing program was launched in Kraków (Cracow) on 16 September 2008. As of 2016, 12 cities and towns in Poland have bike-sharing programs, most of them operated by nextbike.\n\nPortugal has 13 bike-sharing programs functioning year-round as of October 2016, namely in the cities of Águeda (1 station/ 10 pedelecs), Anadia (10 stations), Aveiro (33 stations/350 bicycles), Cascais (October 2017: 19 stations inaugurated; 120 stations and 1200 bicycles by December, 2017), Lisbon (October, 2017: 10 stations inaugurated/100 bicycles; 140 stations and 1410 bicycles by December, 2017 of which 920 will be pedelecs), Oliveira de Azemeis (3 stations/20 pedelecs), Ovar (12 stations/130 bicycles), Paredes (5 stations/80 bicycles), Santarém (4 stations/40 bicycles), Serpa (2 stations/30 bicycles), Torres Vedras (11 stations/260 bicycles), Vilamoura (32 stations/200 bicycles), and Vila do Conde (12 stations/60 bicycles).\n\nTimișoara is the first Romanian city to introduce a public rent-a-bike system. The scheme is called VeloTM and has 25 stations and 300 bikes. The rent-a-bike system works with the RATT card. Renting a bike is free however, the card costs.\n\nAutomated public bicycle sharing services in Russia operate in Moscow, Sankt-Petersburg, and Kazan.\n\nOn 1 July 2013, the Bank of Moscow started the system called Velobike, which was replaced in 2014 by Smoove-based solution using B’TWIN bicycles. The VeloBike program has 2500 bicycles and 150 stations. It is sponsored by the Bank of Moscow and Sberbank of Russia. It is compatible with \"Troika\", the Moscow public transportation system and accessible to occasional users as well.\n\nIn 2001, the not-for-profit organization \"BiCyBa\" released \"White Bicycles\" into public use in Bratislava, Slovakia. During the next three months all the bikes were stolen or destroyed, and the project was cancelled.<ref>\n"}
{"id": "6633641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6633641", "title": "List of gestures", "text": "List of gestures\n\nGestures are a form of nonverbal communication in which visible bodily actions are used to communicate important messages, either in place of speech or together and in parallel with spoken words. Gestures include movement of the hands, face, or other parts of the body. Physical non-verbal communication such as purely expressive displays, proxemics, or displays of joint attention differ from gestures, which communicate specific messages. Gestures are culture-specific and can convey very different meanings in different social or cultural settings. Gesture is distinct from sign language. Although some gestures, such as the ubiquitous act of pointing, differ little from one place to another, most gestures do not have invariable or universal meanings but connote specific meanings in particular cultures. A single emblematic gesture can have very different significance in different cultural contexts, ranging from complimentary to highly offensive.\n\nThis list includes links to pages that discuss particular gestures, as well as short descriptions of some gestures that do not have their own page. Not included are the specialized gestures, calls, and signals used by referees and umpires in various organized sports. Police officers also make gestures when directing traffic. Mime is an art form in which the performer utilizes gestures to convey a story. Charades is a game of gestures.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855237", "title": "List of hoaxes", "text": "List of hoaxes\n\nThe following are lists of hoaxes:\n\nThese are some claims that have been revealed, or proven definitively, to be deliberate public hoaxes. This list does not include hoax articles published on or around April 1, a long list of which can be found in the \"List of April Fools' Day jokes\" article.\n\n\n\n\n\n\"Proven hoaxes of exposure\" are semi-comical or private sting operations. They usually encourage people to act foolishly or credulously by falling for patent nonsense that the hoaxer deliberately presents as reality. See also \"culture jamming\".\n\n\nDeliberate hoaxes, or journalistic fraud, that drew widespread attention include:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37026830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37026830", "title": "List of religious hoaxes", "text": "List of religious hoaxes\n\nThis is a list of hoaxes related to religion.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29614330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29614330", "title": "Lodha Muslims", "text": "Lodha Muslims\n\nThe Lodha Muslim are a tribal or Adivasi community found in the state of West Bengal in India. They are Muslim converts from the Hindu Lodha tribe.\n\nThe exact circumstances of the conversion of the Lodha Muslims to Islam remains shrouded in mystery, but the conversion process was gradual, and the community still preserve many of their pre-Islamic customs. They are found mainly in the Midnapore District, in particular in the villages of Madhya Hingli, Uttar Rani Chak, Gamatub, Maniktala, Laldighi, Chapbasan, Sodhpur and Piyada. .\n\nThe traditional occupation of the Lodha was hunting and gathering, in particular catching of snakes and toads, and then selling their skins. They are no longer hunters and gatherers, and community has now taken up the occupation as locksmiths. A small number are also marginal farmers, but their holdings are incredibly small. The bulk of the community are now wage labourers, with a steady immigration to the city of Kolkata.\n\nThe Lodha are strictly endogamous community, and prefer to marry close kin. They are residentially segregated, live in their own quarters within the villages they reside. Each settlement contains a jati panchayat or caste council, which maintains social control, and resolves any intra community dispute. The community are Sunni Muslims and have customs similar to other Bengali Muslims.\n\n"}
{"id": "3619581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3619581", "title": "Masthead (publishing)", "text": "Masthead (publishing)\n\nIn American usage, a publication's masthead is a printed list, published in a fixed position in each edition, of its owners, departments, officers and address details, which in British English usage is known as imprint.\n\nIn the UK and many other Commonwealth nations, \"the masthead\" is a publication's designed title as it appears on the front page; what in American English is known as the nameplate.\n\n"}
{"id": "18608397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18608397", "title": "Merina Kingdom", "text": "Merina Kingdom\n\nThe Merina Kingdom, or Kingdom of Madagascar, officially the Kingdom of Imerina (1540–1897) was a pre-colonial state off the coast of Southeast Africa that, by the 19th century, dominated most of what is now Madagascar. It spread outward from Imerina, the Central Highlands region primarily inhabited by the Merina ethnic group with a spiritual capital at Ambohimanga and a political capital west at Antananarivo, currently the seat of government for the modern state of Madagascar. The Merina kings and queens who ruled over greater Madagascar in the 19th century were the descendants of a long line of hereditary Merina royalty originating with Andriamanelo, who is traditionally credited with founding Imerina in 1540.\n\nMadagascar's central highlands were first inhabited between 200 BCE–300 CE by the island's earliest settlers, the Vazimba, who appear to have arrived by pirogue from southeastern Borneo to establish simple villages in the island's dense forests. By the 15th century the Hova people from the southeastern coast had gradually migrated into the central highlands where they established hilltop villages interspersed among the existing Vazimba settlements, which were ruled by local kings and queens. The two peoples coexisted peacefully for several generations and are known to have intermarried. In this way, a reigning Vazimba queen (alternately given in the oral histories as Rafohy or Rangita) married a Hova man named Manelobe. Their oldest son, Andriamanelo (1540–1575), broke this tradition by launching a largely successful war to subjugate the surrounding Vazimba communities and force them to either submit to Hova dominance and assimilate, or flee.\n\nAndriamanelo was succeeded by his son Ralambo (1575–1612), whose many enduring and significant political and cultural achievements earned him a heroic and near mythical status among the greatest ancient sovereigns of Merina history. Ralambo was the first to assign the name of Imerina (\"Land of the Merina people\") to the central highland territories where he ruled. Ralambo expanded and defended the Kingdom of Imerina through a combination of diplomacy and successful military action aided by the procurement of the first firearms in Imerina by way of trade with kingdoms on the coast. Imposing a capitation tax for the first time (the \"vadin-aina\", or \"price of secure life\"), he was able to establish the first standing Merina royal army and established units of blacksmiths and silversmiths to equip them. He famously repelled an attempted invasion by an army of the powerful western coastal Betsimisaraka people. According to oral history, the wild zebu cattle that roamed the Highlands were first domesticated for food in Imerina under the reign of Ralambo, and he introduced the practice and design of cattle pen construction, as well as the traditional ceremony of the \"fandroana\" (the \"Royal Bath\"), to celebrate his culinary discovery.\n\nUpon succeeding his father, Andrianjaka (1612-1630) led a successful military campaign to capture the final major Vazimba stronghold in the highlands on the hill of Analamanga. There he established the fortified compound (\"rova\") that would form the heart of his new capital city of Antananarivo. Upon his orders, the first structures within this fortified compound (known as the Rova of Antananarivo) were constructed: several traditional royal houses were built, and plans for a series of royal tombs were designed. These buildings took on an enduring political and spiritual significance, ensuring their preservation until being destroyed by fire in 1995. Andrianjaka obtained a sizable cache of firearms and gunpowder, materials that helped to establish and preserve his dominance and expand his rule over greater Imerina.\nPolitical life on the island from the 16th century was characterised by sporadic conflict between the Merina and Sakalava kingdoms, originating with Sakalava slave-hunting incursions into Imerina.\n\nKing Andriamasinavalona quartered the kingdom to be ruled by his four favourite sons, producing persistent fragmentation and warfare between principalities in Imerina. He extended the borders of the kingdom to their largest historical extent prior to the kingdom's fragmentation.\n\nIt was from this context in 1787 that Prince Ramboasalama, nephew of King Andrianjafy of Ambohimanga (one of the four kingdoms of Imerina) expelled his uncle and took the throne under the name Andrianampoinimerina. The new king used both diplomacy and force to reunite Imerina with the intent to bring all of Madagascar under his rule.\n\nThis objective was largely completed under his son, Radama I, who was the first to admit and regularly engage European missionaries and diplomats in Antananarivo.\n\nThe 33-year reign of Queen Ranavalona I, the widow of Radama I, was characterised by a struggle to preserve the cultural isolation of Madagascar from modernity, especially as represented by the French and British. Her son and heir, King Radama II, signed the unpopular Lambert Charter giving French entrepreneur Joseph-François Lambert exclusive rights to many of the island's resources. His liberal policies angered the aristocracy, however, and Prime Minister Rainivoninahitriniony had the King strangled in a \"coup d'état\". This aristocratic revolution saw Rasoherina, the queen dowager, placed on the throne upon her acceptance of a constitutional monarchy that gave greater power to the Prime Minister. She replaced the incumbent Prime Minister with his brother, Rainilaiarivony, who retained the role for three decades and married each successive queen. The next sovereign, Ranavalona II, converted the nation to Christianity and had all the \"sampy\" (ancestral royal talismans) burnt in a public display. The last Merina sovereign, Queen Ranavalona III, acceded the throne at age 22 and was exiled to Réunion Island and later French Algeria following French colonisation of the island in 1896.\n\nAngry at the cancellation of the Lambert Charter and seeking to restore property taken from French citizens, France invaded Madagascar in 1883 in what became known as the First Franco-Hova War (\"Hova\" referring to the \"andriana\"). At the war’s end, Madagascar ceded Antsiranana (Diégo Suarez) on the northern coast to France and paid 560,000 gold francs to the heirs of Joseph-François Lambert. Meanwhile, in Europe, diplomats partitioning the African continent worked out an agreement whereby Britain, in order to obtain the Sultanate of Zanzibar, ceded its rights over Heligoland to the German Empire and renounced all claims to Madagascar in favor of France. The agreement proved detrimental for the monarchy of Madagascar. Prime Minister Rainilaiarivory had succeeded in playing Great Britain and France against one another, but now France could meddle without fear of reprisals from Britain.\n\nIn 1895, a French flying-column landed in Mahajanga (Majunga) and marched by way of the Betsiboka River to the capital, Antananarivo, taking the city’s defenders by surprise since they had expected an attack from the much closer eastern coast. Twenty French soldiers died in combat while 6,000 died of malaria and other diseases before the Second Franco-Hova War ended. In 1896, the Merina Kingdom was put under French protection as the Malagasy Protectorate and in 1897 the French Parliament voted to annex the island as a colony, effectively ending Merina sovereignty.\n\nAndriamanelo established the first fortified \"rova\" (royal compound) at his capital at Alasora. This fortified palace bore specific features - \"hadivory\" (dry moats), \"hadifetsy\" (defensive trenches) and \"vavahady\" (town gates protected by a large rolled stone disc acting as a barrier) - that rendered the town more resistant to Vazimba attacks.\n\nAndrianjaka's policies and tactics highlighted and increased the separation between the king and his subjects. He transformed social divisions into spatial divisions by assigning each clan to a specific geographical region within his kingdom.\n\nAndrianjaka unified the principalities on what he later designated as the twelve sacred hills of Imerina at Ambohitratrimo, Ambohimanga, Ilafy, Alasora, Antsahadita, Ambohimanambony, Analamanga, Ambohitrabiby, Namehana, Ambohidrapeto, Ambohijafy and Ambohimandranjaka. These hills became and remain the spiritual heart of Imerina, which was further expanded over a century later when Andrianampoinimerina redesignated the twelve sacred hills to include several different sites.\n\nUnder Andriamasinavalona, the Kingdom of Imerina was composed of six provinces (\"toko\"): Avaradrano, constituting Antananarivo and land to the northeast of the capital, including Ambohimanga; Vakinisisaony, including the land to the south of Avaradrano and its capital at Alasora; Vonizongo to the northwest of Antananarivo with its capital at Fihaonana; Marovatana to the south of Vonizongo, with its capital at Ambohidratrimo; Ambodirano, south of Marovatana with its capital at Fenoarivo; and Vakinankaratra to the south of Antananarivo with its capital at Betafo. Andrianampoinimerina reunited these provinces and added Imamo to the west, which has been described by some historians as having been incorporated into Ambodirano, and by others as separate from it; and Valalafotsy to the northwest. Together, these areas constitute the core territory rightly called Imerina, the homeland of the Merina people.\n\nAndriamanelo was reportedly the first to formally establish the andriana as a caste of Merina nobles, thereby laying the foundation for a stratified and structured society. From this point forward, the term Hova was used to refer only to the non-noble free people of the society which would later be renamed Merina by Andriamanelo's son Ralambo. The first sub-divisions of the \"andriana\" noble caste were created when Ralambo split it into four ranks.\n\nAndrianjaka was the first king to be buried on the grounds of the Rova of Antananarivo, his tomb forming the first of the Fitomiandalana (seven tombs placed in a row on the Rova grounds). To commemorate his greatness, his subjects erected a small wooden house called a small sacred house on top of his tomb. Future Merina sovereigns and nobles continued to construct similar tomb houses on their tombs well into the 19th century.\n\nAndriamanelo is credited with introducing astrology (\"sikidy\") in Imerina. The Merina rite of circumcision, described by Bloch (1986) in great detail, continued to be practiced by the Merina monarchy through the end of the 19th century in precisely the way first established by Andriamanelo generations before. Many elements of these rituals continue to form part of the circumcision traditions of Merina families in the 21st century. The origins of these practices can be traced back to the southeastern part of the island that the Hova had left behind as they migrated into the central highlands. Astrology, for instance, had been introduced early to the island by way of trade contacts between coastal Malagasy communities and Arab seafarers.\nUnder Andriamanelo's son Ralambo, the sovereign became imbued with increasing power to protect the realm. This was preserved by honoring the \"sampy\", traditional amulets made from assorted natural materials. Amulets and idols called \"ody\" had long occupied an important place among many ethnic groups of Madagascar, but these were believed to offer protection to the individual wearer only and were commonplace objects possessed by anyone from slave children to kings. After Ralambo received a highly powerful \"sampy\" called Kelimalaza that was distinguished by its supposed capacity to extend protection to an entire community, he sought out and amassed a total of twelve others from communities across Imerina believed to have such a quality. These sampy were personified—complete with a distinct personality—and offered their own house with guardians dedicated to their service. Ralambo then transformed the nature of the relationship between sampy and ruler: whereas previously the sampy had been seen as tools at the disposal of community leaders, under Ralambo they became divine protectors of the king's sovereignty and the integrity of the state, which would be preserved through their power on the condition that the line of sovereigns ensured the sampy were shown the respect due to them. By collecting the twelve greatest sampy—twelve being a sacred number in Merina cosmology—and transforming their nature, Ralambo strengthened the supernatural power and legitimacy of the royal line of Imerina. Oral history recounts numerous instances where sampy were taken into battle, and subsequent successes and varying miracles were attributed to them, including several key victories against Sakalava marauders. The propagation of similar sampy at the service of less powerful citizens consequently increased throughout Imerina under Ralambo's rule: nearly every village chief, as well as many common families, had one in their possession and claimed the powers and protection their communal sampy offered them. These lesser sampy were destroyed or reduced to the status of ody by the end of the reign of Ralambo's son, Andrianjaka, officially leaving only twelve truly powerful sampy (known as the \"sampin'andriana\": the \"Royal Sampy\") which were all in the possession of the king. These royal sampy, including \"Kelimalaza\", continued to be worshiped until their supposed destruction in a bonfire by Queen Ranavalona II upon her public conversion to Christianity in 1869.\n\nAlso beginning under Ralambo, the ritual sanctification of the realm occurred through the annual \"fandroana\" festival at the start of each year. Although the precise form of the original holiday cannot be known with certainty and its traditions have evolved over time, 18th- and 19th-century accounts provide insight into the festival as it was practiced at that time. Accounts from these centuries indicate that all family members were required to reunite in their home villages during the festival period. Estranged family members were expected to attempt to reconcile. Homes were cleaned and repaired and new housewares and clothing were purchased. The symbolism of renewal was particularly embodied in the traditional sexual permissiveness encouraged on the eve of the fandroana (characterized by early 19th-century British missionaries as an \"orgy\") and the following morning's return to rigid social order with the sovereign firmly at the helm of the kingdom. On this morning, the first day of the year, a red rooster was traditionally sacrificed and its blood used to anoint the sovereign and others present at the ceremony. Afterward the sovereign would bathe in sanctified water, then sprinkle it upon attendees to purify and bless them and ensure an auspicious start to the year. Children would celebrate the fandroana by carrying lighted torches and lanterns in a nighttime processional through their villages. The zebu meat eaten over the course of the festival was primarily grilled or consumed as \"jaka\", a preparation reserved uniquely for this holiday. This delicacy was made during the festival by sealing shredded zebu meat with suet in a decorative clay jar. The confit would then be conserved in an underground pit for twelve months to be served at the next year's fandroana.\n\nThe marriage tradition of the \"vodiondry\", still practiced to this day throughout the Highlands, is said to have originated with Andriamanelo. According to oral history, after the sovereign had successfully contracted a marriage with Ramaitsoanala, sole daughter of Vazimba King Rabiby, Andriamanelo sent her a variety of gifts including vodiondry—meat from the hindquarters of a sheep—which he believed to be the tastiest portion. The value placed on this cut of meat was reaffirmed by Ralambo who, upon discovering the edibility of zebu meat, declared the hindquarters of every slaughtered zebu throughout the kingdom to be his royal due. From the time of Andriamanelo forward, it became a marriage tradition for the groom to offer vodiondry to the bride's family. Over time the customary offerings of meat have been increasingly replaced by a symbolic piastre, sums of money and other gifts. Andriamanelo's son Ralambo is credited with introducing the tradition of polygamy in Imerina. He also introduced the traditions of circumcision and family intermarriage (such as between parent and step-child, or between half-siblings) among Merina nobles, these practices having already existed among certain other Malagasy ethnic groups.\n\nAccording to oral history, the institution of lengthy formal mourning periods for deceased sovereigns in Imerina may also have begun with the death of Andrianjaka. He was succeeded by his son, Andriantsitakatrandriana.\n\nThe line of succession in Imerina used a system called \"fanjakana arindra\" (\"organized government\"), which was established by the Vazimba noblewomen who raised Andriamanelo, founder of Imerina. While the Vazimba had historically tended to favor rule by queens, the Hova favored male heirs, and the marriage between Andriamanelo's Vazimba and Hova parents had produced two sons and a daughter. To prevent conflict, the queen decided that Andriamanelo would inherit the crown upon his mother's death and would be succeeded not by his own child but by his younger brother. This system of succession was ordered by the queens to be followed for all time, and applied to families as well: in any instance where there was an elder child and a younger one, the parents would designate an elder child to assume authority within the family upon their death, and that authority would be handed to the designated younger child in the event of the death of the elder child. Ralambo was the first Merina sovereign to practice polygamy, and his second wife was the first to give him a son. While his younger son by his first wife was to rule, Ralambo sought to assuage the elder son by declaring that the crown could henceforth only be passed to a child born of the reigning sovereign and a princess from the elder son Andriantompokoindrindra's family line.\n\nThe practice of sanctifying deceased Merina sovereigns is believed to have originated with Ralambo.\n\nImerina was initially ruled under Andriamanelo from his mother's home village of Alasora. The capital was shifted by his son Ralambo to Ambohidrabiby, location of the former capital of his maternal grandfather King Rabiby. Andrianjaka moved his capital from Ambohidrabiby to Ambohimanga upon ascending to the throne around 1610 or 1612. The Besakana, Masoandrotsiroa and Fitomiandalana houses at the Rova of Antananarivo were preserved and maintained over the centuries by successive generations of Merina sovereigns, imbuing the structures with deep symbolic and spiritual meaning. As Andrianjaka's residence, the Besakana was particularly significant: the original building was torn down and reconstructed in the same design by Andriamasinavalona around 1680, and again by Andrianampoinimerina in 1800, each of whom inhabited the building in turn as their personal residence. King Radama I likewise inhabited the building for much of his time at the Rova, and in 1820 he designated the building as the first site to house what came to be known as the Palace School, the first formal European-style school in Imerina. Sovereigns were enthroned in this building and their mortal remains were displayed here before burial, rendering Besakana \"the official state room for civil affairs... regarded as the throne of the kingdom.\"\n\nThe early Merina fighters under the first king of Imerina were equipped with iron-tipped spears, an innovation credited to Andriamanelo himself, who may have been the first among the Hova to use smithed iron in this way.\n\nAndrianjaka imposed an intimidating change to the traditional form of justice, the trial by ordeal: rather than administering \"tangena\" poison to an accused person's rooster to determine their innocence by the creature's survival, the poison would instead be ingested by the accused himself.\n\nAndriamanelo was the first in the highlands to transform lowland swamps into irrigated rice paddies through the construction of dikes in the valleys around Alasora. Under Andrianjaka, the plains surrounding Antananarivo were gradually transformed into vast, surplus-producing rice paddies. This feat was accomplished by mobilizing large numbers of his able-bodied subjects to construct dikes that enabled the redirection of rainwater for controlled flooding of planted areas.\n\nAndrianjaka was reportedly the first Merina leader to receive Europeans around 1620 and traded slaves in exchange for guns and other firearms to aid in the pacification of rival principalities, obtaining 50 guns and three barrels of gunpowder to equip his army.\n\nAndriamanelo is traditionally credited with discovering the technique of silversmithing, iron smithing and the construction and use of pirogues. While these technologies were not discovered during his reign, Andriamanelo may have been among the first sovereigns in Imerina to make wide-scale use of them.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2620027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2620027", "title": "Mingrelians", "text": "Mingrelians\n\nThe Megrelians (Megrelian: მარგალი, \"margali\"; : \"megrelebi\") or Mingrelians are an ethnic subgroup of Georgians that mostly live in Samegrelo region of Georgia. They also live in considerable numbers in Abkhazia and Tbilisi. In the pre-1930 Soviet census, the Megrelians were afforded their own ethnic group (\"natsional'nost\") category.\n\nThe Mingrelians speak the Mingrelian language, and are mostly bilingual also in Georgian. Both these languages belong to the Kartvelian language family.\n\nIn the 13th century BC, the Kingdom of Colchis was formed as a result of the increasing consolidation of the tribes inhabiting the region, which covered modern western Georgia. The endonym \"Margali\" (მარგალი) is presumably reflected in the Greek \"Manraloi\" (Μάνραλοι), recorded as a people of Colchis by Ptolemy in the 2nd century BC.\n\nBy the mid-3rd century, the Lazi tribe came to dominate most of Colchis, establishing the kingdom of Lazica (or Egrisi in Georgian sources). In the 5th century, the first Christian king Gubazes I of Lazica declared Christianity as a state religion of Lazica. Locals began to have closer contact with the Greeks and acquired various Hellenic cultural traits, including in some cases the language. From 542 to 562, Lazica was a scene of the protracted rivalry between the Eastern Roman and Sassanid empires, culminating in the Lazic War. Emperor Heraclius's offensive in 628 AD brought victory over the Persians and ensured Roman predominance in Lazica until the invasion and conquest of the Caucasus by the Arabs in the second half of the 7th century.\n\nIn the 7th century Lazica fell to the Muslim conquest, however in the 8th century combined Lazic and Abasgian forces successfully repelled the Arab occupation. In 780 Lazica was incorporated to Kingdom of Abkhazia as a result of dynastic succession, the latter led the unification of Georgian monarchy in the 11th century. The nobility and clergy of Lazica switched from the Hellenic ecclesiastic tradition to the Georgian, and Georgian became the language of culture and education. After the fragmentation of the Kingdom of Georgia in the 15th century, Mingrelia was an autonomous principality within the Kingdom of Imereti, until being annexed by the Russian Empire in the 19th century.\nIn several censuses under the Russian Empire and the early Soviet Union, Megrelians were considered a separate group, largely because at the time of the annexation Samegrelo was politically separate from eastern Georgia, the historical political and cultural centers of the Medieval Georgian Kingdoms. They were, reclassified under the broader category of Georgian in the 1930s. Currently, most Megrelians identify themselves as a subgroup of the Georgian nation and have preserved many characteristic cultural features - including the Megrelian language - that date back to the pre-Christian Colchian era.\n\nThe first President of an independent Georgia, Zviad Gamsakhurdia (1939–1993), was a Megrelian. Therefore, after the violent coup d'état of December 21, 1991 - January 6, 1992, Samegrelo became the centre of a civil war, which ended with the defeat of Gamsakhurdia's supporters.\n\nApproximately 180,000-200,000 people of Georgian and Megrelian provenance have been expelled from Abkhazia as a result of the Georgian-Abkhaz conflict in the early 1990s and the ensuing ethnic cleansing of Georgians in this separatist region.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58379982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58379982", "title": "Moscow City Day", "text": "Moscow City Day\n\nMoscow City Day (Russian: День города Москвы) is an official event in Moscow that honors the city's founding. Moscow traditionally celebrates during the first weekend in September. The celebration involves free cultural events, a parade and evening fireworks.\n\nThe Moscow City Day was on January 1, 1847, celebrating Moscow's 700th anniversary. At the end of prayers held in the Chudov Monastery, the bells in the Ivan the Great Bell Tower sounded. The city celebrated its 800th anniversary in 1947, this time during Soviet rule. According to a mandate of the Supreme Soviet of the Soviet Union, a special medal was awarded to almost 1.7 million Soviet citizens. In 1997, the 850th anniversary of Moscow was celebrated. \n\nMoscow Day was introduced as an annual event in 1986 by President Boris Yeltsin, who served as Secretary of the Moscow City Committee at the time.<ref><nowiki>\n"}
{"id": "26370752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26370752", "title": "Moskultprog", "text": "Moskultprog\n\nMoskultprog (since 1997) is a production center of unique cultural initiatives mostly in Russia and Europe, founded by historian Sergey Nikitin. The center is well known for the public non-commercial open-air events on historical, sociourbanistic and natural subjects, which feature comments of the leading experts in these fields like Valentin Yanin, Andrey Zaliznyak, Natalia Dushkina, Alexey Muratov, Maria Makogonova and others.\n\nThe central idea of Moskultprog is to present recent and interesting urban studies with the help of their authors as guides. Moskultprog's events are commonly known as \"progulki\" (walks) and normally attract around 150-200 people, for their character they are sometimes described as the \"biggest scientific seminar in the world\".\n\nSince 2007 Sergey Nikitin and Moskultprog are realizing Moscow Velonight (\"Московская Велоночь\", \"Velonotte Mosca\", a sort of open-air night lecture with hundreds of followers by bike. In 2010 Moskultprog plans to present the first Italian edition of Velonight - Velonotte Roma 2010, dedicated to the contemporary architecture and sociourbanistic development of Rome.\n\nMoskultprog also produces architecture and urbanistic exhibitions, among them - \"Elements of Tverskaya\" (Arch Moscow-2008), \"Leonidov 2\" (for the 1st edition of the Moscow Architecture Biennale), demonstrating recently discovered work of Ivan Leonidov.\n\n"}
{"id": "5903309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5903309", "title": "Mumviri dialect", "text": "Mumviri dialect\n\nMumviri is a dialect of the Kamkata-viri Nuristani language spoken by perhaps 1,500 of the Mumo people of Afghanistan. There are only slight differences to the Kata-vari, Mumviri has Kamviri phonetic features. The most used alternative name is \"Bashgali\", which derive from Khowar.\n\nMumviri is spoken in the Mangul, Sasku and Gabalgrom in the Bashgal Valley.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44008423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44008423", "title": "Murder of Tijana Jurić", "text": "Murder of Tijana Jurić\n\nTijana Jurić (; 4 May 1999 — 26 July 2014) was a Serbian girl. She was kidnapped and murdered on 26 July 2014. Dragan Đurić was arrested for the crime.\n"}
{"id": "52652848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52652848", "title": "Okandé", "text": "Okandé\n\nThe Okandé are a people of north-eastern Gabon who belong to the Mèmbè language group (Okandè, Apindzi, Simba, Vové, Tsogho, Evia and Kotakota). Their language overlaps that of the Apindzi and the Simba about 80/86% according to professor Van Der Veen. Their estimated population of 2,000 persons (in 2003) live in the Lopé region in Ogooué-Ivindo. The Mwiri, a male initiation institution, still plays an important role in the traditional social and religious life of the Okandé.\n\nWhile their history is little known today, the archives do speak of them. The Okandè, fierce conservators of their environment, through their initiation rites, (Douwa, Diyandzi, Ghétolè, Bwété, Mwiri) were formerly dubbed the \"kings of the Ogooué, the vainquishers of the rapids\", better known than the Adouma and the Sisiwu, have taught their traditions, such as navigation of the Ogooué, okouyi dancing, Mvudi, Bodi, Mboudi, Mouiri, Ndjèmbè and others) to the Galois, Enènga, Aduma, Mbangwè and Sisiwu. Seasoned canoers, the Okandè helped the explorer Pierre Savorgnan de Brazza and his successors up the Ogooué to its source towards the end of the 18th century. They were longtime slave traders; the Adouma came down the Ogooué to the Lopé to sell them slaves, and in turn the Okandé brought them in pirogues specially adapted to the rocks and rivers of the Ogooué to sell them to the Enènga of Lambaréné.\n\nOnly the Okandè and the Kotakota (derived from the Apinzi of the Ogooué) of Ndjolé, or, rarely, the Enènga, attempted the Ogooué in its most complex stretch, from Lambaréné to Booué, which the Galois and Enènga called \"Orèmbo Okandè\", or the river of the Okandè. The Okandè named the river the Ogooué, and also, between Lambaréné and Booué, many watercourses, islets, rapids and so on bear names given to them by the piroguiers of the Okandè, such as Talaghougha, Abanga, Offoué, Okano, Lélédi, Ivindo, Booué, Ngomo, and Ashouka. \nThe banks of the Okandé are covered in virgin forests interrupted at lengthy intervals by clearings where the Akellas have established small villages, very useful to travelers for the purchase of provisions.Hippopotamuses abound in the Okandé. Beyond Samiketa the riverbanks get much higher.\n\nIn the classification of Bantu languages established by Malcolm Guthrie, Mokande-Kande belongs to the Tsogo (B30) language group and is coded B32.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6487512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6487512", "title": "Racial antisemitism", "text": "Racial antisemitism\n\nRacial antisemitism is a form of antisemitism or prejudice against Jews based on the belief that Jews are a racial or ethnic group, rather than prejudice against Judaism as a religion. The definition is based on the premise that Jews constitute a distinctive race or ethnic group, whose traits or characteristics are in some way abhorrent or inherently inferior or otherwise different to that of the rest of society. The abhorrence may be expressed in the form of stereotypes or caricatures. Racial antisemitism may present Jews, as a group, as being a threat in some way to the values or safety of society. Racial antisemitism could be seen as worse than religious antisemitism because for religious antisemites conversion was an option and once converted the 'Jew' was gone. With racial antisemitism a Jew could not get rid of their Jewishness.\n\nAccording to William Nichols, religious antisemitism may be distinguished from modern antisemitism based on racial or ethnic grounds. \"The dividing line was the possibility of effective conversion ... a Jew ceased to be a Jew upon baptism.\" However, with racial antisemitism, \"Now the assimilated Jew was still a Jew, even after baptism ... . From the Enlightenment onward, it is no longer possible to draw clear lines of distinction between religious and racial forms of hostility towards Jews... Once Jews have been emancipated and secular thinking makes its appearance, without leaving behind the old Christian hostility towards Jews, the new term antisemitism becomes almost unavoidable, even before explicitly racist doctrines appear.\"\n\nIn the context of the Industrial Revolution, following the emancipation of the Jews and the \"Haskalah\" (the Jewish Enlightenment), Jews rapidly urbanized and experienced a period of greater social mobility. With the decreasing role of religion in public life tempering religious antisemitism, a combination of growing nationalism, the rise of eugenics, and resentment at the socio-economic success of the Jews, and the influx of Ashkenazi Jews from Eastern Europe, soon led to the newer, and often more virulent, racist antisemitism.\n\nScientific racism, the ideology that genetics played a role in group behavior and characteristics, was highly respected and accepted as fact between the years of 1870 and 1940. It was not only antisemites that believed in race science but highly educated Jews, among others, as well. This acceptance of race science made it possible for antisemites to clothe their hatred of Jews in scientific theory.\n\nThe logic of racial antisemitism was extended in Nazi Germany, where racial antisemitic ideas were turned into law, which looked at the \"blood\" or ethnicity of a person, and not their current religious affiliations, and their fate would be determined purely on that basis. When added to its views on the Jewish racial traits which the Nazi pseudoscience devised, led to the Holocaust as a way of eradicating conjured up \"Jewish traits\" from the world.\n\nRacial antisemitism has existed alongside religious antisemitism since the Middle Ages, if not earlier. In Spain even before the Edict of Expulsion of 1492, Spanish Jews who converted to Catholicism (\"conversos\" in Spanish), and their descendants, were called New Christians. They were frequently accused of lapsing to their former religious practices (\"Crypto-Jews\"). To isolate \"conversos\", the Spanish nobility developed an ideology of \"cleanliness of blood\". The \"conversos\" were called \"New Christians\" to indicate their inferior status in society. That ideology was a form of racism, as in the past there were no grades of Christianity and a convert had equal standing. Cleanliness of blood was an issue of ancestry, not of personal religion. The first statute of purity of blood appeared in Toledo in 1449, where an anti-\"converso\" riot lead to \"conversos\" being banned from most official positions. Initially these statutes were condemned by the monarchy and the Church. However, the New Christians came to be hounded and persecuted by the Spanish Inquisition after 1478, the Portuguese Inquisition after 1536, the Peruvian Inquisition after 1570 and the Mexican Inquisition after 1571, as well as the Inquisition in Colombia after 1610.\n\nIn Medieval Europe, all Asian peoples were thought of as descendants of Shem. By the 19th century, the term Semitic was confined to the ethnic groups who have historically spoken Semitic languages or had origins in the Fertile Crescent, as the Jews in Europe did. These peoples were often considered to be a distinct race. However, some antisemitic racial theorists of the time argued that the Semitic peoples arose from the blurring of distinctions between previously separate races. This supposed process was referred to as semiticization by the race-theorist Arthur de Gobineau. \n\nGobineau himself did not consider the Semites (decedents of Shem) to be of a lesser race. He broke people up into three races: white, black, and yellow. The Semites, like the Aryans (and Hamites) came from Asia and were white. Over time each of the groups had mixed with black blood. The Aryans had stayed pure longer and it was not until more recent times that they had mixed. It was this mixing of races that would lead to man's downfall. This idea of racial \"confusion\" was taken up by the Nazi ideologue Alfred Rosenberg. It was used by the Nazis to perpetuate the idea that the Jews were going to destroy Germany.\n\nThis concept suited the interests of antisemites, since it provided a theoretical model to rationalise racialised antisemitism. Variations of the theory are to be found in the writings of many antisemites in the late 19th century. The Nazi ideologue Alfred Rosenberg developed a variant of the theory in his writings, arguing that Jewish people were not a \"real\" race. According to Rosenberg, their evolution came about from the mixing of pre-existing races rather than from natural selection. The theory of semiticization was typically associated with other longstanding racist fears about the dilution of racial difference through miscegenation, manifested in negative images of mulattos and other mixed groups.\n\nModern European antisemitism has its origins in 19th century theories—now mostly considered as pseudo-scientific, but then accepted as credible—that said that the Semitic peoples, including the Jews, are entirely different from the Aryan, or Indo-European, populations, and that they would not be able to assimilate. In this view, Jews are not opposed on account of their religion, but on account of their supposed hereditary or genetic racial characteristics: greed, a special aptitude for money-making, aversion to hard work, clannishness and obtrusiveness, lack of social tact, low cunning, and especially lack of patriotism. Later, Nazi propaganda also dwelt on supposed physical differences, such as the shape of the \"Jewish nose\".\n\nIn Nazi Germany, the Nuremberg Race Laws of 1935 prohibited sexual relations and marriage between any Aryan and Jew (such relations under Nazi ideology was a crime punishable under the race laws as \"Rassenschande\" or \"racial pollution\"), and made it that all Jews, even quarter- and half-Jews, were no longer citizens of their own country (their official title became \"subject of the state\"). This meant that they had no basic citizens' rights, e.g., to vote. In 1936, Jews were banned from all professional jobs, effectively preventing them having any influence in politics, higher education and industry. On 15 November 1938, Jewish children were banned from going to normal schools. By April 1939, nearly all Jewish companies had either collapsed under financial pressure and declining profits, or had been persuaded to sell out to the Nazi government. This further reduced their rights as human beings; they were in many ways officially separated from the German populace. Similar laws existed in Bulgaria (The Law for protection of the nation), Hungary, Romania, and Austria.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56823600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56823600", "title": "Racial invariance", "text": "Racial invariance\n\nIn criminology, racial invariance refers to a hypothesis that the effects of structural disadvantage on rates of violent crime are the same for all racial groups. This hypothesis is a major component of structural perspectives on the causes of crime, such as social disorganization theory and anomie. It can be traced back to William Julius Wilson's 1987 book \"The Truly Disadvantaged\", which argued that racial differences in crime rates are due to differences in the communities in which American whites and blacks live. Since then, it has become a major component of the general theory of crime.\n"}
{"id": "18878847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18878847", "title": "Radio Club de Chile", "text": "Radio Club de Chile\n\nThe Radio Club de Chile (RCCH) is a national non-profit organization for amateur radio enthusiasts in Chile. Key membership benefits of RCCH include the sponsorship of amateur radio operating awards and radio contests, and a QSL bureau for those members who regularly communicate with amateur radio operators in other countries. RCCH represents the interests of Chilean amateur radio operators before Chilean and international telecommunications regulatory authorities. RCCH is the national member society representing Chile in the International Amateur Radio Union.\n\n"}
{"id": "41836384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41836384", "title": "Rape in Afghanistan", "text": "Rape in Afghanistan\n\nRape is a major issue in Afghanistan. It is a crime which can be legally prosecuted within the nation. In Islam, sexual violation is regarded as a violation of moral and divine law. It is considered a serious crime in the religion of Islam. A number of human rights organizations have criticized the country's rape laws and their enforcement.\n\nRape is a type of sexual assault usually involving sexual intercourse or other forms of sexual penetration perpetrated against a person without that person's consent. The act may be carried out by physical force, coercion, abuse of authority or against a person who is incapable of giving valid consent. This can include one who is unconscious, incapacitated, has an intellectual disability or is below the legal age of consent. The term \"rape\" is sometimes used interchangeably with the term \"sexual assault.\"\n\nRape in Afghanistan is largely under-reported. In many cases, the victim is punished under Muslim law.. Violence against women in Afghanistan reached record levels in 2013, according to the Afghan Independent Human Rights Commission (AIHRC). Women are respected for their virginity, and it is rare for a man to marry a rape victim. Even if the woman gets pregnant, it is uncommon for the rapist to marry her. Thus a woman is now punished for being \"impure\". The authorities treat such cases as adultery. Even if the woman is not punished, she remains rejected by society as \"dishonorable\" (badnaam in Pashto), while the rapist is not considered dishonored.\n\nRape in the country is a crime which can be legally prosecuted but does not currently have any laws that directly address and protect rape victims or at risk groups. Just the opposite in fact. Afghanistan passed the Shia Family Law in 2009 under Afghan President Hamid Karzai. The United Nations Development Fund for Women, NATO, Canada, United States, Germany and other nations have come forward expressing concern over the oppressive nature of the law. The Shia Family law takes away women's rights within a marriage and specifies that Shia women must submit to their husband's demands. It even specifies that they must have sex with their husbands at least once every four days except in the case of illness. The law will only apply to Shia women, which totals around 6 million. The argument in favor of this law is that it is an improvement upon the customary regional law imposed previously. With the support of the conservative and political elite, Afghan courts have taken, and continue to take, action in efforts to remove, lessen, or limit women's rights.\n\nRape in Afghanistan is a crime which can be legally prosecuted, but in practice it is very rarely reported, because of the immense risks that women face if they report it. Rape victims in the country face a double risk of being subjected to violence: on one hand they can become victims of honor killings perpetrated by their families, and on the other hand they can be victimized by the laws of the country. Women also undertake many smaller personal risks to their social status and daily life: they can be charged with adultery, a crime that can be punishable by death. Furthermore, they can be forced by their families to marry their rapist which is especially likely if the woman becomes pregnant.\n\nIn many parts of the Middle East, including Afghanistan, rape victims are more stigmatized than the rapists. Women who are raped can and are often be punished. While their male counterparts rarely face jail time when accused of rape. Women are often punished as \"fornicators\" under the zina, the part of Islamic law that has to do with unlawful sexual intercourse. Women are often persuaded to marry their rapist in hopes of restoring honor to her family. This is also done so the rapist can avoid facing charges. Thus putting women in the, very often dangerous position, of either marrying the man who raped and attacked them or facing honor crimes, possibly murder, at the hands of their own family members.\n\nIn 2013, Afghanistan made international news in regard to the story of a woman who was raped by a man, jailed for adultery, gave birth to a child in jail, and was then subsequently pardoned by then president Hamid Karzai, as international interest and outrage grew. And in the end of her whole ordeal, societal pressure and her families pressure she was forced to marry the man who raped her.\n\nIn 2012, Afghanistan recorded 240 cases of honor killings and 160 cases of rape, but the number for both honor killings and rapes is estimated to be much higher and unreported, especially in the more rural areas. In 2013, in eastern Ghazni, a man attacked a woman and attempted to rape her, and as a result the relatives of the woman killed both the woman and the man in an honor killing. In Afghanistan, crimes such as adultery, rape and trafficking are often conflated with each other, and it is generally not acceptable for a woman and a man to be alone together (unless married or related), and if this happens the response can be very violent: an Afghan medical doctor and his female patient were attacked by an angry mob who threw stones at them after the two were discovered in his private examining room without a chaperon. Recently, the security forces have been also alleged to rape children in the country.\n\nDuring the Afghan-Soviet war the Soviet forces abducted Afghan women while flying in the country in search of mujahideen. In November 1980 a number of such incidents had taken place in various parts of the country, including Laghman and Kama. Soviet soldiers as well as KhAD agents kidnapped young women from the city of Kabul and the areas of Darul Aman and Khair Khana, near the Soviet garrisons, to rape them. Women who were taken and raped by Soviet soldiers were considered 'dishonoured' by their families if they returned home.\n\nIn 2015, Amnesty International reported that the Afghan Taliban had engaged in mass murder and gang rapes of Afghan civilian women and children in Kunduz. Taliban fighters killed and raped female relatives of police commanders and soldiers. The Taliban also raped and killed midwives who they accused of providing forbidden reproductive health services to women in the city. One female human rights activist described the situation:\"When the Taliban asserted their control over Kunduz, they claimed to be bringing law and order and Shari’a to the city. But everything they’ve done has violated both. I don’t know who can rescue us from this situation.\"\n\nIn 2013, Fereshta Kazemi played the leading role in \"The Icy Sun\", one of the first films to deal openly with rape in Afghanistan. NBC News said that her \"film breaks new ground for Afghanistan, where victims of rape can be forced to marry their attackers to preserve their families' honor\".\n\n"}
{"id": "17376821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17376821", "title": "Robert J. Cindrich", "text": "Robert J. Cindrich\n\nRobert James Cindrich (born September 22, 1943) is a former United States District Judge of the United States District Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania and a former federal judicial nominee to the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit.\n\nBorn in Washington, Pennsylvania, Cindrich earned an Artium Baccalaureus degree from Wittenberg University in 1965 and earned a Juris Doctor magna cum laude from the University of Pittsburgh School of Law in 1968. After law school, Cindrich clerked for United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit Judge Ruggero Aldisert from 1968 until 1969.\n\nAfter a stint as a United States Army Reserve specialist from 1968 until 1971, Cindrich worked for Allegheny County, Pennsylvania as an assistant public defender from 1969 until 1970 and as an assistant district attorney from 1970 until 1972. Cindrich shifted to private legal practice from 1972 until 1978. Cindrich served as the United States Attorney for the Western District of Pennsylvania from 1978 until 1981, when he again returned to private legal practice until being appointed to the federal bench. While Cindrich was in private practice, he hired future Third Circuit Judge Thomas Hardiman as an associate at his firm.\n\nOn August 12, 1994, President Clinton nominated Cindrich to become a judge for the United States District Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania. The United States Senate unanimously confirmed Cindrich in a voice vote on October 6, 1994.\n\nOn February 9, 2000, President Clinton nominated Cindrich for a seat on the Third Circuit, to replace Timothy K. Lewis, who had resigned at age 44 to work in private practice. With Republicans in control of the Senate in the final year of Clinton's presidency, however, Cindrich's nomination languished, never receiving a hearing before the United States Senate Judiciary Committee. Cindrich's nomination to the Third Circuit was terminated with the end of Clinton's presidency. In 2001, President Bush nominated D. Brooks Smith to the Third Circuit seat to which Cindrich had been nominated. Smith was confirmed by the Senate the following year.\n\nOn January 5, 2004, Cindrich announced that he would resign as district judge on January 30, 2004 to become chief legal counsel to the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, effective February 1, 2004. Cindrich said he was quitting in part for financial reasons, noting that his lifetime salary offered no survivor's benefit for his wife. \"If death takes me early, she is stuck,\" he told the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette in an article that appeared on January 6, 2004. \"She gets zero. In the private sector, by federal law, every pension must contain a survivor's benefit.\" Cindrich said he also was frustrated by strict sentencing guidelines that he believed removed discretion from judges. \"When the law provides a result that is repugnant, we must still follow the law,\" Cindrich told the Associated Press in a story that appeared in its feed on February 2, 2004. \"And you can only do that so many times before you start to wonder, 'How many more times am I going to put my name on this sentence that I don't believe in?'\"\n\n"}
{"id": "53443220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53443220", "title": "Rubén Oseguera González", "text": "Rubén Oseguera González\n\nRubén Oseguera González (; born 14 February 1990), commonly referred to by his alias El Menchito (), is a U.S.-born Mexican suspected drug lord and former high-ranking leader of the Jalisco New Generation Cartel (CJNG), a criminal group based in Jalisco. He is the son of Nemesio Oseguera Cervantes (alias \"El Mencho\"), Mexico's most-wanted man. Under his father, he allegedly worked as the CJNG's second-in-command and managed international drug trafficking operations.\n\nHe was first arrested in January 2014 in Jalisco, but was released in October for lack of evidence and re-arrested immediately as he walked out of prison. He was then released again in December after a judge considered the evidence against him as insufficient. In June 2015, Oseguera González was arrested again, released a month later, and re-arrested as his release order was made official. He is imprisoned at Federal Social Readaptation Center No. 13, a maximum-security prison in Oaxaca.\n\nRubén Oseguera González was born on 14 February 1990, in San Francisco County, California. He also holds Mexican citizenship. He has several aliases, including \"Rubén Garibay González\", \"El Junior\", \"El Rubencito\", \"El Rojo\", \"El Niño\", and \"El Menchito\". His last nickname is a diminutive of his father's nickname El Mencho, which comes from the phonetic derivation of his name Nemesio. His mother, Rosalinda González Valencia, is the sister of Abigael González Valencia, a former leader of the Milenio Cartel and Los Cuinis. His father, Nemesio Oseguera Cervantes (alias \"El Mencho\"), is the leader of the Jalisco New Generation Cartel (CJNG) and one of Mexico's most-wanted men. Oseguera González has two sisters, Jessica Johana and Laisha.\n\nAccording to Mexican government sources, Oseguera González acted as the CJNG's second-in-command, just below his father. He was allegedly responsible for managing the CJNG's operations in buying and selling narcotics from South America to Mexico. He was also accused of coordinating stolen gasoline sales in Jalisco, leading a group of hitmen who killed people who refused to work with the CJNG, overseeing a line of hitmen responsible for protecting CJNG's turf in Jalisco and Colima from rival gangs like the Knights Templar Cartel and Los Zetas, and managing the CJNG's financial assets.\n\nSince 2013, Mexican authorities were investigating a public telephone booth line and two cellphones linked with high-ranking leaders of the CJNG. According to intelligence reports, one of the mobile lines received a call from the public booth line from a neighborhood Jardines Universidad in Zapopan, Jalisco, prompting an investigation. The Mexican Army asked the Criminal Investigation Agency (AIC) branch of the Office of the General Prosecutor (PGR) to investigate the neighborhood and the two mobile lines more closely. The Army began to dispatch undercover agents to monitor the neighborhood. On the evening of 29 January 2014, one of the mobile phones was located through geolocation at a neighborhood in Zapopan before it went out of service. The Army and the Navy decided to send a Special Forces unit from Mexico City to Zapopan to investigate the incident.\n\nAt 3:30 am. CT on 30 January, the Special Forces unit raided a residence in neighborhood Patria Universidad and discovered Oseguera González sleeping there. As the authorities took down the doors, Oseguera González woke up from the loud noise and jumped from his bed, ran to his backyard, and climbed the back wall to reach his neighbor's property. However, the Special Forces unit successfully surrounded the premises and reduced Oseguera González's escape options. He eventually submitted and was arrested in his neighbor's backyard. Two of his henchmen surrendered at the door without resisting arrest. Two others, who were renting a nearby house, fled on foot but were arrested too. Oseguera González reportedly offered the officers who detained him around MXN$17 million to let him go. Authorities confirmed that they confiscated between MXN$10 to $16 million and USD$500,000 at the crime scene, as well as 4 assault rifles, 9 handguns, a grenade, and several rounds of ammunition. Former Attorney General of Mexico Jesús Murillo Karam confirmed to the press that no gunshots were fired in the operation.\n\nOseguera González was flown that day to Mexico City and taken to the SEIDO, Mexico's anti-organized crime investigatory agency, where he gave his statement and was interrogated by law enforcement. Government sources confirmed that he had no pending formal investigations or arrest warrants issued against him in Jalisco. On 1 February, Oseguera González was taken to Federal Social Readaptation Center No. 1 (also known as \"Altiplano\"), a maximum-security prison in Almoloya de Juárez, State of Mexico. Authorities confirmed that he was arrested because of pending charges of money laundering, drug trafficking, and illegal possession of weapons of military-exclusive use. Oseguera González pleaded not guilty and claimed that he worked in construction and was a car salesperson since he was 16 years old. He also claimed that he inherited properties from his mother after she bought them when he was younger and put them under his name. \n\nIn response to the military operation that resulted in Oseguera González's arrest, CJNG gunmen hijacked three buses and set them on fire throughout the Guadalajara Metropolitan Area. No deaths or injuries were reported. The U.S. consulate in Guadalajara sent a warning to U.S. citizens in the city and asked them not to travel in the southern part of the urban area, including the main roads leading to the Guadalajara International Airport. Once the attacks concluded, the Mexican government asked civilians to remain calm and resume their daily activities. Authorities stated that they would remain on alert throughout the Guadalajara area for other violent responses from organized crime.\n\nOn 16 October 2014, Oseguera González was released from Altiplano, but he was re-arrested immediately as he walked out of prison by members of the AIC. He was released because a judge from the State of Mexico absolved him from the following crimes: illegal possession of firearms, having weapons of military-exclusive use, use of resources from illicit origins, and crimes against public health. Once in custody, he was then taken to the SEIDO installations and imprisoned there for two months while the PGR worked on getting his jurisdiction to open a trial against him. On 18 December, he was sent to the Federal Social Readaptation Center No. 2 (also known as \"Puente Grande\"), a maximum-security prison in Jalisco. \n\nOn 26 December, Oseguera González was released from prison again after a judge concluded that there was insufficient evidence against him for the charges of drug trafficking, overseeing the CJNG's financial operations, and leading a group of hitmen.\n\nOn 23 June 2015, Oseguera González was arrested again by the Mexican Army and the Federal Police in the Lomas de Altamira neighborhood in Zapopan, Jalisco, this time along with his brother-in-law Julio Alberto Castillo Rodríguez. The operation lasted about 20 minutes and no shots were fired. The officers entered the private neighborhood in several vehicles at around 2:15 am. CT and subdued the entrance guard. They then shot the security cameras with paintball guns to obscure them, destroyed several others, and asked the guard to cut the electricity power in the vicinity. As they were in the entrance booth of the neighborhood, the telephone ran but none of them answered. The guard was then asked to kneel down while the officers entered the neighborhood and apprehended Oseguera González, who was inside a vehicle with Rodríguez Castillo. Authorities confiscated several weapons, including 2 customized AR-15 assault rifles engraved with the insignias \"CJNG 02 JR\" and \"Menchito\".\n\nAccording to government sources, Oseguera González was trying keep a low profile and had undergone a nose surgery to alter his identity. He travelled without bodyguards to avoid attracting attention from law enforcement. The government officially confirmed his identity through DNA and physical tests, and photo evidence.\n\nAt the time of his arrest, he was wanted for organized crime involvement, using resources from illicit origins (money laundering), and kidnapping. The government alleged that when Oseguera González was released from prison the year before, he rejoined the CJNG and began managing their international drug trafficking operations. Once in custody, he was sent to Mexico City and transferred to the SEIDO installations, where he gave his formal declaration. As Oseguera González arrived at the SEIDO via helicopter, a Blackhawk Federal Police helicopter with snipers guarded the premises.\n\nOn 27 June, a federal judge in Toluca issued an arrest warrant for Oseguera González. He was then transferred to Altiplano prison. Oseguera González's defense argued that their client was detained on illegal grounds because some of the charges he was arrested for were absolved by a judge before, thus causing double jeopardy. The PGR countered this argument by saying that the judge's actions did not mean an absolute resolution from the charges imposed.\n\nOn 1 July 2015, a federal judge from the State of Mexico ordered Oseguera González's release after concluding that the evidence against him was insufficient and that his due process had been violated. The judge stated that when Oseguera González was arrested in June, the officers did not have an arrest warrant against him and entered his private property without legal authorization. He also stated that the detainee was in custody for 9 hours and without a lawyer before he was sent to the justice department. When the judge considered that authorities had failed to prove that Oseguera González was involved in organized crime, he was released. This was the third time he had been released in less than a year. However, as Oseguera González was walked out of Altiplano, he was re-arrested by the PGR, who had a pending arrest warrant against him. According to government sources, he was wanted for organized crime involvement and for participating in the disappearance of two individuals in Tepalcatepec, Michoacán. He was sent again to the SEIDO installations by helicopter and escorted by an armed Blackhawk helicopter.\n\nOn 3 July, a federal court approved the PGR's request to keep Oseguera González under a 40-day preventative detention while authorities work on gathering more evidence against the defense. The request was carried out as part of an investigation by the SEIDO against Oseguera González for his alleged participation in kidnapping. Oseguera González's defense, however, responded by issuing a writ of amparo in hopes of preventing their client from being detained without charges being filed. A judge denied the defense's request to remove their client's preventative detention on 16 July. \n\nOn 12 August, a federal judge approved the PGR's request to extend Oseguera González's preventative detention for 40 additional days in order to allow authorities to continue working on gathering evidence against the defense. Later that day, the PGR decided to remove his preventative detention after considering that they had found enough evidence against him. On 13 August, he was issued an arrest warrant and transferred to Altiplano prison on organized crime and bribery charges. The kidnapping charges were suspended. Oseguera González was also investigated for his alleged participation in the murder of four people at a restaurant in Zapopan in 17 May 2013. According to the detainees, Oseguera González planned the attack.\n\nOn 28 August 2015, a federal court issued an arrest warrant against Oseguera González and charged him with illegal possession of firearms, using ammunition of exclusive military use, having five weapons of exclusive military use, and organized crime involvement. In October, Oseguera González was transferred from Altiplano to Federal Social Readaptation Center No. 3 (also known as \"Noreste\") in Matamoros, Tamaulipas. He issued a writ of amparo after claiming that he endured mistreatment and torture. That same month, the PGR opened another case and issued another arrest warrant to charge Oseguera González for acting as the CJNG's second-in-command and ordering homicides against rival drug members. They also stated that he was responsible for coordinating international drug trafficking shipments. The evidence presented to the court consisted of intelligence reports gathered by law enforcement and lawyers. On 4 November, a federal court charged Oseguera González with drug trafficking along with five other suspected CJNG members.\n\nOseguera González issued another writ of amparo in early 2016 to request a transfer back to Altiplano. In February 2016, however, he was transferred to Federal Social Readaptation Center No. 13 in Miahuatlán de Porfirio Díaz, Oaxaca. His defense responded by preparing a writ of amparo for the supposed violations against their client. On 30 June, the PGR via a federal judge in Toluca issued an arrest warrant against Oseguera González and charged him with illegal possession of firearms, using ammunition of military-exclusive weapons, being in possession of at least five military-exclusive weapons, and organized crime involvement. \n\nOn 22 August, the writ of amparo for mistreatment and torture issued months before was struck down by a judge after he spoke with the prison staff, who denied their involvement in such violations. On 10 November, a judge approved Oseguera González's request to receive a conjugal visit. The defendant claimed that he was limited by the prison staff from speaking to his lawyers in the past. The judge did not comment on this matter.\n\nOn 21 February, a court approved Oseguera González's writ of amparo and invalidated his formal imprisonment for organized crime charges. The judge concluded that the charges had several flaws and the evidence presented was insufficient. According to the court, Oseguera González's organized crime charges were based on the testimonies of two Federal Police officers, who described to investigators that he was part of the leadership structure of the CJNG. The judge did not consider this evidence sufficient because the police did not establish how or where they got this information. \n\nThe PGR submitted the weapons seized during Oseguera González's arrests, and a cap with the insignias of the CJNG that Oseguera González had in his possession when he was taken into custody, as evidence of his alleged involvement in organized crime. They also mentioned his biological relationship with his father and the fact that two alleged members of the CJNG told investigators that Oseguera González worked below him as evidence. The judge did not agree that the weapons and the cap proved Oseguera González's militancy in the CJNG. The judge also dismissed the two testimonies of the alleged CJNG members because they gave conflicting assertions when investigators showed them a picture of Oseguera González and asked them to identify him. Oseguera González was not released from prison because he had four additional pending charges that were not invalidated by the court.\n\nOn 3 February 2017, the United States District Court for the District of Columbia issued an arrest warrant against Oseguera González. The Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) stated that he had been involved in importing and distributing narcotics from Mexico to the U.S. since 2011. The DEA stated that Oseguera González had several other aliases, including \"Rubencito\", \"El Rojo\", \"El Ruso\", and \"El Niño\". According to the report, the United States Department of Justice was going to seize all of Oseguera González assets in the U.S. that were a result of his drug proceeds. With the arrest warrant, the U.S. government could formally request his extradition to the U.S.\n\nOn 16 October 2018, the United States Department of State, Treasury, and Justice announced a joint law enforcement measure against the CJNG, and publicized previously sealed indictments charging Oseguera González. The report stated that between 2007 and February 2017, Oseguera González was responsible for importing and distributing narcotics in the U.S. from Mexico, and of using firearms during and to retaliate for his alleged drug trafficking activities. The U.S. government confirmed that the extradition of Oseguera González was pending.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59512", "title": "Serbs", "text": "Serbs\n\nThe Serbs ( / , ) are a South Slavic ethnic group that formed in the Balkans. The majority of Serbs inhabit the nation state of Serbia (with a minority in disputed Kosovo), as well as Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia and Montenegro. They form significant minorities in Macedonia and Slovenia. There is a large Serb diaspora in Western Europe, and outside Europe there are significant communities in North America and Australia.\n\nThe Serbs share many cultural traits with the rest of the peoples of Southeast Europe. They are predominantly Eastern Orthodox Christians by religion. The Serbian language is official in Serbia, co-official in Kosovo and Bosnia and Herzegovina, and is spoken by the plurality in Montenegro.\n\nThe modern identity of Serbs is rooted in Eastern Orthodoxy and traditions. In the 19th century, the Serbian national identity was manifested, with awareness of history and tradition, medieval heritage, cultural unity, despite living under different empires. Three elements, together with the legacy of the Nemanjić dynasty, were crucial in forging identity and preservation during foreign domination: the Serbian Orthodox Church, the Serbian language, and Kosovo Myth. When the Principality of Serbia gained independence from the Ottoman Empire, Orthodoxy became crucial in defining the national identity, instead of language which was shared by other South Slavs (Croats and Bosniaks). The tradition of \"slava\", the family saint feast day, is an important ethnic marker of Serb identity, and is usually regarded their most significant and most solemn feast day.\n\nThe origin of the ethnonym is unclear (see Names of the Serbs and Serbia). Genetic studies on Serbs show that they have close affinity with the rest of the Balkan peoples, and especially those within former Yugoslavia; Y-DNA results show that haplogroups I2a and R1a together stand for roughly two thirds of the makeup (as of 2014). Serbia's people are among the tallest in the world, after Montenegro and the Netherlands, with an average male height of .\n\nSlavs invaded and settled the Balkans in the 6th and 7th centuries. Up until the late 560s their activity was raiding, crossing from the Danube, though with limited Slavic settlement mainly through Byzantine \"foederati\" colonies. The Danube and Sava frontier was overwhelmed by large-scale Slavic settlement in the late 6th and early 7th century. What is today central Serbia was an important geo-strategical province, through which the \"Via Militaris\" crossed. This area was frequently intruded by barbarians in the 5th and 6th centuries. The numerous Slavs mixed with and assimilated the descendants of the indigenous population. The history of the early medieval Serbian Principality is recorded in the 10th-century work \"De Administrando Imperio\", which describes the Serbs as a people living in Roman Dalmatia, subordinate to the Byzantine Empire.\n\nNumerous small Serbian states were created, chiefly under Vlastimorović and Vojislavjević dynasties, located in modern Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Montenegro, and Serbia. With the decline of the Serbian state of Duklja in the late 11th century, \"Raška\" separated from it and replaced it as the most powerful Serbian state. Prince Stefan Nemanja (r. 1169–96) conquered the neighbouring territories of Kosovo, Duklja and Zachlumia. The Nemanjić dynasty ruled over Serbia until the 14th century. Nemanja's older son, Stefan Nemanjić, became Serbia's first recognized king, while his younger son, Rastko, founded the Serbian Orthodox Church in the year 1219, and became known as Saint Sava after his death.\n\nOver the next 140 years, Serbia expanded its borders, from numerous minor principalities, reaching to a unified Serbian Empire. Its cultural model remained Byzantine, despite political ambitions directed against the empire. The medieval power and influence of Serbia culminated in the reign of Stefan Dušan, who ruled the state from 1331 until his death in 1355. Ruling as Emperor from 1346, his territory included Macedonia, northern Greece, Montenegro, and almost all of modern Albania. When Dušan died, his son Stephen Uroš V became Emperor.\n\nWith Turkish invaders beginning their conquest of the Balkans in the 1350s, a major conflict ensued between them and the Serbs, the first major battle was the Battle of Maritsa (1371), in which the Serbs were defeated. With the death of two important Serb leaders in the battle, and with the death of Stephen Uroš that same year, the Serbian Empire broke up into several small Serbian domains. These states were ruled by feudal lords, with Zeta controlled by the Balšić family, Raška, Kosovo and northern Macedonia held by the Branković family and Lazar Hrebeljanović holding today's Central Serbia and a portion of Kosovo. Hrebeljanović was subsequently accepted as the titular leader of the Serbs because he was married to a member of the Nemanjić dynasty. In 1389, the Serbs faced the Ottomans at the Battle of Kosovo on the plain of Kosovo Polje, near the town of Pristina. Both Lazar and Sultan Murad I were killed in the fighting. The battle most likely ended in a stalemate, and Serbia did not fall to the Turks until 1459.\n\nThe Serbs had taken an active part in the wars fought in the Balkans against the Ottoman Empire, and also organized uprisings; because of this, they suffered persecution and their territories were devastated – major migrations from Serbia into Habsburg territory ensued. After allied Christian forces had captured Buda from the Ottoman Empire in 1686 during the Great Turkish War, Serbs from Pannonian Plain (present-day Hungary, Slavonia region in present-day Croatia, Bačka and Banat regions in present-day Serbia) joined the troops of the Habsburg Monarchy as separate units known as Serbian Militia. Serbs, as volunteers, massively joined the Austrian side.\n\nIn 1688, the Habsburg army took Belgrade and entered the territory of present-day Central Serbia. Louis William, Margrave of Baden-Baden called Serbian Patriarch Arsenije III Čarnojević to raise arms against the Turks; the Patriarch accepted and returned to the liberated Peć. As Serbia fell under Habsburg control, Leopold I granted Arsenije nobility and the title of duke. In early November, Arsenije III met with Habsburg commander-in-chief, General Enea Silvio Piccolomini in Prizren; after this talk he sent a note to all Serb bishops to come to him and collaborate only with Habsburg forces.\n\nA large migration of Serbs to Habsburg lands was undertaken by Patriarch Arsenije III. The large community of Serbs concentrated in Banat, southern Hungary and the Military Frontier included merchants and craftsmen in the cities, but mainly refugees that were peasants.\n\nThe Serbian Revolution for independence from the Ottoman Empire lasted eleven years, from 1804 until 1815. The revolution comprised two separate uprisings which gained autonomy from the Ottoman Empire that eventually evolved towards full independence (1835–1867). During the First Serbian Uprising, led by Duke Karađorđe Petrović, Serbia was independent for almost a decade before the Ottoman army was able to reoccupy the country. Shortly after this, the Second Serbian Uprising began. Led by Miloš Obrenović, it ended in 1815 with a compromise between Serbian revolutionaries and Ottoman authorities. Likewise, Serbia was one of the first nations in the Balkans to abolish feudalism.\n\nIn the early 1830s Serbia gained autonomy and its borders were recognized, with Miloš Obrenović being recognized as its ruler. The last Ottoman troops withdrew from Serbia in 1867, although Serbia's independence was not recognized internationally until the Congress of Berlin in 1878.\nSerbia fought in the Balkan Wars of 1912–13, which forced the Ottomans out of the Balkans and doubled the territory and population of the Kingdom of Serbia. In 1914, a young Bosnian Serb student named Gavrilo Princip assassinated Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria, which directly contributed to the outbreak of World War I. In the fighting that ensued, Serbia was invaded by Austria-Hungary. Despite being outnumbered, the Serbs subsequently defeated the Austro-Hungarians at the Battle of Cer, which marked the first Allied victory over the Central Powers in the war. Further victories at the battles of Kolubara and the Drina meant that Serbia remained unconquered as the war entered its second year. However, an invasion by the forces of Germany, Austria-Hungary and Bulgaria overwhelmed the Serbs in the winter of 1915, and a subsequent withdrawal by the Serbian Army through Albania took the lives of more than 240,000 Serbs. Serb forces spent the remaining years of the war fighting on the Salonika Front in Greece, before liberating Serbia from Austro-Hungarian occupation in November 1918.\n\nSerbs subsequently formed the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes with other South Slavic peoples. The country was later renamed the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, and was led from 1921 to 1934 by King Alexander I of the Serbian Karađorđević dynasty. During World War II, Yugoslavia was invaded by the Axis powers in April 1941. The country was subsequently divided into many pieces, with Serbia being directly occupied by the Germans. Serbs in the Independent State of Croatia (NDH) experienced persecution at the hands of the Croatian ultra-nationalist, fascist Ustaše, who attempted to exterminate the Serb population in death camps. More than half a million Serbs were killed in the territory of Yugoslavia during World War II. Serbs in occupied Yugoslavia subsequently formed a resistance movement known as the Yugoslav Army in the Homeland, or the Chetniks. The Chetniks had the official support of the Allies until 1943, when Allied support shifted to the Communist Yugoslav Partisans, a multi-ethnic force, formed in 1941, which also had a large majority of Serbs in its ranks in the first two years of war. Later, after the fall of Italy (September 1943), other ethnic groups joined Partisans in larger numbers.\n\nAt the end of the war, the Partisans, led by Josip Broz Tito, emerged victorious. Yugoslavia subsequently became a Communist state. Tito died in 1980, and his death saw Yugoslavia plunge into economic turmoil. Yugoslavia disintegrated in the early 1990s, and a series of wars resulted in the creation of five new states. The heaviest fighting occurred in Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, whose Serb populations rebelled and declared independence. The war in Croatia ended in August 1995, with a Croatian military offensive known as Operation Storm crushing the Croatian Serb rebellion and causing as many as 200,000 Serbs to flee the country. The Bosnian War ended that same year, with the Dayton Agreement dividing the country along ethnic lines. In 1998–99, a conflict in Kosovo between the Yugoslav Army and Albanians seeking independence erupted into full-out war, resulting in a 78-day-long NATO bombing campaign which effectively drove Yugoslav security forces from Kosovo. Subsequently, more than 200,000 Serbs and other non-Albanians fled the province. On 5 October 2000, Yugoslav President Slobodan Milosević was overthrown in a bloodless revolt after he refused to admit defeat in the 2000 Yugoslav general election.\n\nThere are nearly 8 million Serbs living in their autochthonous region of Western Balkans. In Serbia (the nation state), around 6 million people identify themselves as Serbs, and constitute about 83% of the population. More than a million live in Bosnia and Herzegovina (predominantly in Republika Srpska), where they are one of the three constituent ethnic groups. The ethnic communities in Croatia and Montenegro number some 186,000 and 178,000 people, respectively, while another estimated 146,000 still inhabit the disputed area of Kosovo. Smaller minorities exist in Slovenia and Macedonia, some 36,000 and 39,000 people, respectively.\n\nOutside of Western Balkans, Serbs are an officially recognized minority in Romania (18,000), Hungary (7,000), Albania, the Czech Republic and Slovakia. There is a large diaspora in Western Europe, particularly in Germany, Austria, Switzerland, France, and Sweden. Outside Europe, there are significant Serb communities in the United States, Canada, Australia, South America and Southern Africa.\n\nThere are over 2 million Serbs in diaspora throughout the world, although some sources put that figure as high as 4 million. The existence of a large diaspora is mainly a consequence of either economic or political (coercion or expulsions) reasons. There were several waves of Serb emigration:\n\n\n \nSerbs speak Serbian, a member of the South Slavic group of languages, specifically the Southwestern group. Standard Serbian is a standardized variety of Serbo-Croatian, and therefore mutually intelligible with Standard Croatian and Standard Bosnian (see Differences in standard Serbian, Croatian and Bosnian), which are all based on the Shtokavian dialect.\n\nSerbian is an official language in Serbia and Bosnia-Herzegovina and is a recognized minority language in Montenegro (although spoken by a plurality of population), Croatia, Macedonia, Romania, Hungary, Czech Republic and Slovakia. Older forms of literary Serbian are Church Slavonic of the Serbian recension, which is still used for ecclesiastical purposes, and Slavonic-Serbian—a mixture of Serbian, Church Slavonic and Russian used from mid-18th century to the first decades of the 19th century.\n\nSerbian has active digraphia, using both Cyrillic and Latin alphabets. Serbian Cyrillic was devised in 1814 by Serbian linguist Vuk Karadžić, who created the alphabet on phonemic principles.\n\nLoanwords in the Serbian language besides common internationalisms are mostly from Turkish, German and Italian, while words of Hungarian origin are present mostly in the north and Greek words are predominant in the liturgy. Serbian word that is used in many of the world's languages is \"vampire\" (\"vampir\").\n\nLiterature, icon painting, music and dance and medieval architecture are the artistic forms for which Serbia is best known. Traditional Serbian visual art (specifically frescoes, and to some extent icons), as well as ecclesiastical architecture, are highly reflective of Byzantine traditions, with some Mediterranean and Western influence.\n\nIn modern times (since the 19th century) Serbs also have a noteworthy classical music and works of philosophy. Notable philosophers include Branislav Petronijević, Radomir Konstantinović, Ksenija Atanasijević, Nikola Milošević, Mihailo Marković, Svetozar Marković, Mihailo Đurić.\n\nDuring the 12th and 13th centuries, many icons, wall paintings and manuscript miniatures came into existence, as many Serbian Orthodox monasteries and churches such as those at Studenica, Sopoćani, Gračanica and Visoki Dečani were built. The architecture of some of these monasteries is world-famous. During the same period UNESCO protected Stećak monumental medieval tombstones were built.\n\nSince the mid-1800s, Serbia has produced many famous painters who are representative of general European artistic trends. One of the most prominent of these was Paja Jovanović, who painted massive canvases on historical themes such as the Great Serb Migrations. Painter Uroš Predić was also very prominent in the field of Serbian art, painting the \"Kosovo Maiden\", which was completed in 1919. While Jovanović and Predić were both realist painters, artist Đura Jakšić was an accomplished Romanticist. Painters Petar Lubarda, Vladimir Veličković and Ljubomir Popović were famous for their surrealism.\n\nTraditional Serbian music includes various kinds of bagpipes, flutes, horns, trumpets, lutes, psalteries, drums and cymbals. The kolo is the traditional collective folk dance, which has a number of varieties throughout the regions. Composer and musicologist Stevan Stojanović Mokranjac is considered one of the most important founders of modern Serbian music.\n\nSerbia has produced many talented filmmakers, the most famous of whom are Dušan Makavejev, Živojin Pavlović, Goran Paskaljević, Emir Kusturica, Želimir Žilnik and Srdan Golubović. \nŽelimir Žilnik and Stefan Arsenijević won the Golden Bear award at Berlinale. Kusturica became world-renowned after winning the Palme d'Or twice at the Cannes Film Festival, numerous other prizes, and is a UNICEF National Ambassador for Serbia. Several Americans of Serb origin have been featured prominently in Hollywood. The most notable of these are Academy-award winners Karl Malden, Steve Tesich, Peter Bogdanovich and actresses Milla Jovovich and Stana Katic.\n\nMost literature written by early Serbs was about religious themes. Various gospels, psalters, menologies, hagiographies, and essays and sermons of the founders of the Serbian Orthodox Church were written. At the end of the 12th century, two of the most important pieces of Serbian medieval literature were created– the Miroslav Gospels and the Vukan Gospels, which combined handwritten Biblical texts with painted initials and small pictures. Notable Baroque-influenced authors were Andrija Zmajević, Gavril Stefanović Venclović, Jovan Rajić, Zaharije Orfelin and others. Dositej Obradović was the most prominent figure of the Age of Enlightenment, while the most notable Classicist writer was Jovan Sterija Popović, although his works also contained elements of Romanticism. Modern Serbian literature began with Vuk Karadžić's collections of folk songs in the 19th century, and the writings of Njegoš and Branko Radičević. The first prominent representative of Serbian literature in the 20th century was Jovan Skerlić, who wrote in pre–World War I Belgrade and helped introduce Serbian writers to literary modernism. The most important Serbian writer in the inter-war period was Miloš Crnjanski.\n\nThe first Serb authors who appeared after World War II were Mihailo Lalić and Dobrica Ćosić. Having become the cultural center of the region, other notable post-war Yugoslav authors such as Ivo Andrić and Meša Selimović, a Bosnian Croat and Bosniak respectively, were assimilated to Serbian culture, and both identified as Serbs. Andrić went on to win the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1961. Danilo Kiš, another popular Serbian writer, was known for writing \"A Tomb for Boris Davidovich\", as well as several acclaimed novels. Amongst contemporary Serbian writers, Milorad Pavić stands out as being the most critically acclaimed, with his novels \"Dictionary of the Khazars\", \"Landscape Painted with Tea\" and \"The Inner Side of the Wind\" bringing him international recognition. Highly revered in Europe and in South America, Pavić is considered one of the most intriguing writers from the beginning of the 21st century.\n\nMany Serbs have contributed to the field of science and technology. Serbian American scientist, inventor, physicist, mechanical engineer and electrical engineer Nikola Tesla is regarded as one of the most important inventors in history. He is renowned for his contributions to the discipline of electricity and magnetism in the late 19th and early 20th century.\n\nPhysicist and physical chemist Mihajlo Pupin is best known for his landmark theory of modern electrical filters as well as for his numerous patents, while Milutin Milanković is best known for his theory of long-term climate change caused by changes in the position of the Earth in comparison to the Sun, now known as Milankovitch cycles. Mihailo Petrović is known for having contributed significantly to differential equations and phenomenology, as well as inventing one of the first prototypes of an analog computer. Roger Joseph Boscovich was a Ragusan physicist, astronomer, mathematician and polymath of paternal Serbian origin (although there are competing claims for Bošković's nationality) who produced a precursor of atomic theory and made many contributions to astronomy and also discovered the absence of atmosphere on the Moon. Jovan Cvijić founded modern geography in Serbia and made pioneering research on the geography of the Balkan Peninsula, Dinaric race and karst. Josif Pančić made contributions to botany and discovered more than 100 new floral species including the Serbian spruce. Biologist and physiologist Ivan Đaja performed research in the role of the adrenal glands in thermoregulation, as well as pioneering work in hypothermia.\nValtazar Bogišić is considered to be a pioneer in the sociology of law and sociological jurisprudence.\nGordana Vunjak-Novakovic is a Serbian American biomedical engineer focusing on engineering human tissues for regenerative medicine, stem cell research and modeling of disease. She is one of the most highly cited scientists of all times.\n\nThere are several different layers of Serbian names. Serbian given names largely originate from Slavic roots:\ne.g., Vuk, Bojan, Goran, Zoran, Dragan, Milan, Miroslav, Vladimir, Slobodan, Dušan, Milica, Nevena, Vesna, Radmila. Other names are of Christian origin, originating from the bible (Hebrew, through Greek), such as Lazar, Mihailo, Ivan, Jovan, Ilija, Marija, Ana, Ivana. Along similar lines of non-Slavic Christian names are Greek ones such as: Stefan, Nikola, Aleksandar, Filip, Đorđe, Andrej, Jelena, Katarina, Vasilije, Todor, while those of Latin origin include: Marko, Antonije, Srđan, Marina, Petar, Pavle, Natalija, Igor (through Russian).\n\nMost Serbian surnames are paternal, maternal, occupational or derived from personal traits. It is estimated that over two thirds of all Serbian surnames have the suffix \"-ić\" (-ић) (), a Slavic diminutive, originally functioning to create patronymics. Thus the surname Petrović means the \"son of Petar\" (from a male progenitor, the root is extended with possessive \"-ov\" or \"-ev\"). Due to limited use of international typewriters and unicode computer encoding, the suffix may be simplified to \"-ic\", historically transcribed with a phonetic ending, \"-ich\" or \"-itch\" in foreign languages. Other common surname suffixes found among Serbian surnames are \"-ov\", \"-ev\", \"-in\" and \"-ski\" (without \"-ić\") which is the Slavic possessive case suffix, thus Nikola's son becomes Nikolin, Petar's son Petrov, and Jovan's son Jovanov. Other, less common suffices are \"-alj/olj/elj\", \"-ija\", \"-ica\", \"-ar/ac/an\". The ten most common surnames in Serbia, in order, are Jovanović, Petrović, Nikolić, Marković, Đorđević, Stojanović, Ilić, Stanković, Pavlović and Milošević.\n\nSerbs are predominantly Orthodox Christians. The autocephalous Serbian Orthodox Church, established in 1219, is led by a Patriarch, and consists of three archbishoprics, six metropolitanates and thirty-one eparchies, having around 10 million adherents. Followers of the church form the largest religious group in Serbia and Montenegro, and the second-largest in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia. The church has an archbishopric in Macedonia and dioceses in Western Europe, North America and Australia.\n\nThe identity of ethnic Serbs was historically largely based on Orthodox Christianity and on the Serbian Church in particular, to the extent of the claims that those who are not its faithful are not Serbs. The conversion of the South Slavs from paganism to Christianity took place before the Great Schism, the split between the Greek East and the Catholic West. After the Schism, those who lived under the Orthodox sphere of influence became Orthodox and those who lived under the Catholic sphere of influence became Catholic. Some ethnologists consider that the distinct Serb and Croat identities relate to religion rather than ethnicity. With the arrival of the Ottoman Empire, some Serbs converted to Islam. This was particularly, but not wholly, the case in Bosnia. Since the second half of the 19th century, some Serbs converted to Protestantism, while historically some Serbs were Catholics (especially in Dalmatia; e.g. Serb-Catholic movement in Dubrovnik). The remainder of Serbs remain predominantly Serbian Orthodox Christians.\n\nAmong the most notable national and ethnic symbols are the flag of Serbia and the coat of arms of Serbia. The flag consists of a red-blue-white tricolour, rooted in Pan-Slavism, and has been used since the 19th century. Apart from being the national flag, it is also used officially in Republika Srpska (by Bosnian Serbs) and as the official ethnic flag of Croatian Serbs. The coat of arms, which includes both the Serbian eagle and Serbian cross, has also been officially used since the 19th century, its elements dating back to the Middle Ages, showing Byzantine and Christian heritage. These symbols are used by various Serb organisations, political parties and institutions. The Three-finger salute, also called the \"Serb salute\", is a popular expression for ethnic Serbs and Serbia, originally expressing Serbian Orthodoxy and today simply being a symbol for ethnic Serbs and the Serbian nation, made by extending the thumb, index, and middle fingers of one or both hands.\n\n\n\nSerbian cuisine is largely heterogeneous, with heavy Oriental, Central European and Mediterranean influences. Despite this, it has evolved and achieved its own culinary identity. Food is very important in Serbian social life, particularly during religious holidays such as Christmas, Easter and feast days, i.e., \"slava\". Staples of the Serbian diet include bread, meat, fruits, vegetables, and dairy products. Traditionally, three meals are consumed per day. Breakfast generally consists of eggs, meat and bread. Lunch is considered the main meal, and is normally eaten in the afternoon. Traditionally, Turkish coffee is prepared after a meal, and is served in small cups. Bread is the basis of all Serbian meals, and it plays an important role in Serbian cuisine and can be found in religious rituals. A traditional Serbian welcome is to offer bread and salt to guests, and also \"slatko\" (fruit preserve). Meat is widely consumed, as is fish. Serbian specialties include \"kajmak\" (a dairy product similar to clotted cream), \"proja\" (cornbread), \"kačamak\" (corn-flour porridge), and \"gibanica\" (cheese and kajmak pie). Ćevapčići, caseless grilled and seasoned sausages made of minced meat, is the national dish of Serbia.\n\nŠljivovica (Slivovitz) is the national drink of Serbia in domestic production for centuries, and plum is the national fruit. The international name \"Slivovitz\" is derived from Serbian. Plum and its products are of great importance to Serbs and part of numerous customs. A Serbian meal usually starts or ends with plum products and Šljivovica is served as an aperitif. A saying goes that the best place to build a house is where a plum tree grows best. Traditionally, Šljivovica (commonly referred to as \"rakija\") is connected to Serbian culture as a drink used at all important rites of passage (birth, baptism, military service, marriage, death, etc.), and in the Serbian Orthodox patron saint celebration (\"slava\"). It is used in numerous folk remedies, and is given certain degree of respect above all other alcoholic drinks. The fertile region of Šumadija in central Serbia is particularly known for its plums and Šljivovica. Serbia is the largest exporter of Slivovitz in the world, and second largest plum producer in the world.\n\nSerbs are famous for their sporting achievements, and have produced many talented athletes.\n\nOver the years Serbia has been home to many internationally renowned football players such as Dragan Džajić (officially recognized as \"the best Serbian footballer of all times\" by Football Association of Serbia; 1968 European Footballer of the Year third place) and more recent likes of Dejan Stanković (Serbia's most capped player), Nemanja Vidić (Premier League Player of the Season and member of FIFPro World XI, both awards for 2008–09 and 2010–11 seasons respectively), Branislav Ivanović and Nemanja Matić. Serbia has developed a reputation as one of the world's biggest exporters of expat footballers.\n\nA total of 22 Serbian players have played in the NBA in the last two decades, including three-time NBA All-Star Predrag \"Peja\" Stojaković and NBA All-Star and FIBA Hall of Fame inductee Vlade Divac. Serbian players that made a great impact in Europe include four members of the FIBA Hall of Fame from the 1960s and 1970s – Dragan Kićanović, Dražen Dalipagić, Radivoj Korać, and Zoran Slavnić – as well as recent stars such as Dejan Bodiroga (2002 All-Europe Player of the Year), Aleksandar Đorđević (1994 and 1995 Mr. Europa) and currently active Miloš Teodosić (2009–2010 Euroleague MVP) and Nikola Jokić. The renowned \"Serbian coaching school\" produced many of the most successful European coaches of all times, such as Željko Obradović (a record eight Euroleague titles), Božidar Maljković (four Euroleague titles), Aleksandar Nikolić (three Euroleague titles), Dušan Ivković (two Euroleague titles), and Svetislav Pešić.\n\nNovak Đoković, twelve-time Grand Slam champion and 2011, 2014 and 2015 Laureus Sportsman of the Year, finished 2011, 2012, 2014, and 2015 as the No. 1 ranked player in the world.\nAna Ivanovic (champion of 2008 French Open) and Jelena Janković were both ranked No. 1 in the WTA Rankings, while Nenad Zimonjić and Slobodan Živojinović were ranked No. 1 in doubles. \n\nThe most successful water polo players are Vladimir Vujasinović, Aleksandar Šapić, Vanja Udovičić, Andrija Prlainović and Filip Filipović.\n\nOther noted Serbian athletes, including Olympic and world champions and medalists, are: swimmer Milorad Čavić, volleyball player Nikola Grbić, handball player Svetlana Kitić, long-jumper Ivana Španović, shooter Jasna Šekarić and taekwondoist Milica Mandić.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21488059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21488059", "title": "Sex robot", "text": "Sex robot\n\nSex robots or sexbots are hypothetical anthropomorphic robot sex dolls. , although elaborately instrumented sex dolls have been created by a number of inventors, no fully functioning sex robots exist.\n\nThe sex robot has evolved from sex doll precursors that stem back as far as the 17th century, during which Dutch sailors created hand sewn masturbation puppets made of cloth, leather, and old clothes. Many scholars consider this creation to be the direct predecessor of modern sex dolls. Much of the inspiration for creating the modern sex doll came from mannequin-based art created by Man Ray and Salvador Dali. Man Ray claimed that surrealists, including himself and Dali, infused their work with eroticism and personally \"violated\" their mannequins. For example, Dali’s \"Rainy Taxi\" centered on a female mannequin whose half undressed body was crawling with live snails.\n\nBy 1968, sex dolls were first advertised in pornographic magazines and became available for purchase via mail. These sex dolls were inflatable with air; consisting of penetration areas at the mouth, vagina, and anus. However, due to their inflatable nature, these dolls were subject to deterioration and were not sustainable for constant use. By the 1970’s, materials such as latex and silicone were widely used in the manufacturing of sex dolls to facilitate enhanced durability and a greater resemblance to a human.\n\nThe realism of sex robots greatly accelerated in the late 1990s. In 1997, Matt McMullen began constructing lifelike, tin-cure silicon mannequins called RealDolls that were ‘realistic, posable, and life-sized’. McMullen received much criticism about the anatomical correctness of his mannequins; using this as motivation to create a more enhanced version. In 2009, McMullen switched to using platinum material, instead of tin-cure silicon, to further enhance the durability and lifelike nature of the doll. Consequently, all other sex doll manufacturers have followed suit. Many manufacturers, including McMullen, believed that companionship is a critical part of the sex bot dynamic and that incorporating AI into them is the next step.\n\nAs of 2018, various new models have been constructed to hold conversations, remember important facts, and express various emotions. One such model is \"Harmony\", created by Matt McMullen, which is customizable by using a mobile app, where users can choose from \"thousands of possible combinations of looks, clothes, personalities and voices to make your perfect companion\".\n\nIn 2014, David Levy, the chess champion and author of \"Love and Sex with Robots\" said in an interview with \"Newsweek\" that \"I believe that loving sex robots will be a great boon to society ... There are millions of people out there who, for one reason or another, cannot establish good relationships.\" He estimates that this will take place by the mid-21st century. Prototypes are being created that imitate human warmth.\n\nIn 2017, MIT Press published the first book on this topic, \"Robot Sex\", with a preliminary approach to the several challenges this field represent for human beings and societies. A short review of this book (in Spanish), can be found here.\n\nThere are ongoing attempts to make sex dolls socially interactive. In 2010, a sex doll called Roxxxy that had the capacity to play back pre-recorded speech cues was demonstrated at a trade show. In 2015, Matt McMullen, the creator of the RealDoll stated that he intended to create sex dolls with the capacity to hold conversations. Sexbots with a male design may be referred to as \"malebots\" or \"manbots\".\n\nBarcelona based Dr. Sergi Santos developed sex robot Samantha; the robot can switch between a sex setting (which can include Samantha simulating an orgasm) and a family mode. It can also can tell jokes and discuss philosophy.\n\nIn 2017, Matt McMullen created a sex doll called \"Harmony\" which has the capability of learning about the preferences, wants, and desires of the owner. Furthermore, Harmony can smile, blink and frown in a nearly humanlike fashion. She can hold a conversation with you, tell jokes, remember your food preferences, and the names of your siblings. The cost of Harmony is said to be roughly $15,000. During an onstage interview with Engadget in 2018, Matt McMullen demonstrated that the skin on Harmony’s face could be peeled off and replaced with different skin. He subsequently added a different colored wig and changed her personality by using the app on his handheld device that controls the robot. He named this sex doll ‘Solana’ and considers it to be the sister of Harmony.\n\nIn September 2015, Kathleen Richardson of De Montfort University and Erik Billing of the University of Skövde created the \"\", calling for a ban on the creation of anthropomorphic sex robots. Richardson is critical of Levy and argues that the introduction of such devices would be socially harmful, and demeaning to women and children.\n\nIn September 2015, the Japanese company SoftBank, the makers of the \"Pepper\" robot, included a ban on robot sex. The robots user agreement states: \"The policy owner must not perform any sexual act or other indecent behaviour\".\n\nNoel Sharkey Aimee van Wynsberghe and Eleanor Hancock of the Foundation for Responsible Robotics released a consultation report presenting a summary of the issues and various opinions about what could be society's intimate association with robots. The report includes an examination of how such robots could be employed as a sexual therapy tool for rapists or paedophiles. Sharkey warns that this could be \"problematic\" in terms of sex dolls resembling children.\n\nThere is considerable speculation about this technology coming from experts in the fields of philosophy, sociology, and the natural sciences. Scholars such as Chandrshekhar Shrivastava believe that sex robots will facilitate \"social isolation\" and that sexual relations with robots will \"desensitize humans to intimacy and empathy\". Furthermore, according to Chauntelle Tibbals, \"Nothing can replace the joy, sorrow, passion, and pain of an actual, unpredictable human interaction.\" Kathleen Richardson, the director of the campaign against sex robots, firmly believes that we should \"start cultivating better relations between each other and leave sex robots to the dustbin of bad ideas\". She further argues that only when interacting with another human can we experience our humanity and our identity, as opposed to interacting with a robot.\n\nThe sex robots that have been created, as of 2018, primarily resemble women with exaggerated characteristics. Kathleen Richardson argues that these sex robots facilitate a powerful attitude towards women's bodies as commodities, and promote a non-empathetic interaction. Experts argue that improving the gender diversity of those involved in developing this sex technology could help reduce possible harm, such as the objectification of women. In Barcelona, a sex doll brothel allows men to act out their fantasies where they can choose from a selection of flexible silicone dolls and request that they be dressed in whatever outfit the man prefers. Many scholars, including Kathleen Richardson, argue that this ‘reinforces the idea that women are property’, rather than human-beings with free will. Scholars such as Robert Sparrow argue that the creation of realistic female sex robots, with the ability to refuse consent, further facilitates a rape culture. He believes that sex with these robots represents the 'rape of a woman' and may increase the rate of rape in society, while also facilitating a general ‘disrespect for women’ in society. Furthermore, a sex robot called 'Frigid Farah', where its personality is described as 'reserved and shy', has caught the attention of several scholars. The manufacturer claimed that if \"you touched her in a private area, more than likely, she will not be too appreciative of your advance\". Many scholars view this as indulging rape fantasies and facilitating a rape culture.\n\nThe Curbing Realistic Exploitative Electronic Pedophilic Robots (CREEPER) Act, sponsored by Daniel M. Donovan, Jr., was passed by the U.S. House of Representatives on 13 June 2018. The bill would amend the federal obscenity statute, to criminalize importation and transportation for interstate commerce any \"anatomically-correct doll, mannequin, or robot, with the features of, or with features that resemble those of, a minor, intended for use in sexual acts.\" Bob Goodlatte stated that \"these dolls create a real risk of reinforcing pedophilic behavior and they desensitize the user causing him to engage in sicker and sicker behavior\". Australia and the United Kingdom already have such bans.\n\nProponents of sex robots believe that sex robots have the potential to provide a valuable service for people who are elderly or disabled and provide them with emotional support say, for example, when the spouse of an elderly person dies. Furthermore, scholars such as Hojjat Abdollahi argue that these robots can act as \"robot companions\" that aid elderly people with dementia or depression. After conducting a study on many elderly patients, it was found that elderly individuals were interested in having a robot as their companion and their interest did not decay over time. He further explains that these patients established meaningful rapport with the robot companion and that they greatly valued the presence of the robot. The robot companion ‘Paro’, created by Takanori Shibata, has been used since 2009 as a therapeutic machine for the elderly suffering with dementia as well as those suffering from depression and anxiety. Paro is designed to respond to touch, remember faces, and learn certain actions that promote a favorable reaction in the patient. Although Paro was not designed to be a sex robot specifically, Paro is an example of how intelligent machines could become a suitable therapeutic option. New York Times columnist Ross Douthat has suggested that sex robots could solve the problem of inceldom in society.\n\nThe \"First International Congress on Love and Sex with Robots\" was held in Funchal, Madeira in November 2014. The conference was coordinated by Professor Adrian Cheok and Dr. David Levy. The main discussion revolved around the debate of where we draw the line with regard to cyber love and relationships and what the future of love and sex with robots has in store. Additional topics of discussion during the conference included humanoid robots, robot emotions, roboethics, and philosophical approaches. In October 2015 a second conference scheduled for November 2015 in Malaysia was declared illegal by the Malaysian Inspector-General of Police. The second conference was eventually held in December 2016 chaired by Dr. Kate Devlin at Goldsmiths, University of London in the United Kingdom. Devlin also founded the UK's first ever sex tech hackathon, also held in 2016 at Goldsmiths.\n\nIn 2016, a discussion of these issues was held at the 12th IFIP TC9 Human Choice & Computers Conference, entitled \"Technology and Intimacy: Choice or Coercion?\". The conference was coordinated by Dr. David Kreps from Salford University. The overall aim of the conference was to 'scrutinize the journey from impersonal monolithic technology towards the intimate intertwining of devices and the self'. A prospective outlook on how these technologies will evolve was closely examined. Some of the main themes discussed during the conference were intimacy, personalization, material culture, and sexual relationships with robots. In September 2018, the 13th IFIP TC9 Human Choice & Computers Conference \"This Changes Everything\" will be held in Poznan, Poland. The conference will be led and directed by David Kreps, Kai Kimppa, Louise Leenen, and Charles Ess. The discussion will be focused on the societal and ethical implications posed by artificial intelligence, privacy concerns, and how such technologies have significantly shifted computational strategies and altered the world we live in.\n\nIntimacy with robots, artificial intelligence, and other human-constructed items are saturated in the media landscape. They provoke questions about what is love, why people crave the need for affection, and challenge pre-existing beliefs of what it means to be human.\n\nOriginally published in 1886, the novel \"Tomorrow's Eve\" centers around a fictionalized Edison, who creates a female robot for his lonely patron. While the robot's beauty is apparent, the robot lacks the emotional capabilities to fulfill that hole in his heart.\n\nThe film \"Ex Machina\" questions common notions about consciousness. A sentient robot is created with a violent outcome, rebelling against her creators. Throughout the story, \"Ex Machina\" appeals to empathize with the robot as a victim of a man with a god complex. Responding to the protagonist's uncertainty about her fate if she does not live up to her creator's standards, the robot, Ava, responds \"Why is it up to anyone?\" about whether or not she lives. This questions the audience's underlying belief about whether or not a robot is entitled to a free life like other conscious beings.\n\nThe film \"Lars and the Real Girl\" explores the idea of a romantic attachment to artificial human-like items. Ultimately, the film concludes with the protagonist \"murdering\" his sex doll lover in a river: emphasizing the projection of one's idealized lover onto an inanimate object.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3107712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3107712", "title": "Social situation in the French suburbs", "text": "Social situation in the French suburbs\n\nThe word \"banlieue\", which is French for \"suburb,\" does not necessarily refer to an environment of social disenfranchisement. Indeed, there exist many wealthy suburbs, such as Neuilly-sur-Seine (the wealthiest commune of France) and Versailles outside Paris. Nevertheless, the term \"banlieues\" has often been used to describe troubled suburban communities—those with high unemployment, high crime rates, and frequently, a high proportion of residents of foreign origin mainly from former French African colonies and therefore Berbers, Blacks, and Arabs.\n\nThe destruction of World War II, coupled with an increase in the country's population (due both to immigration and natural increase) left France with a severe housing shortage. During the 1950s, shantytowns (\"bidonvilles\") developed on the outskirts of major cities. During the winter of 1954, popular priest Abbé Pierre urged the government to work on behalf of the country's large homeless population. To relieve the shortage, and end the practice of illegal squatting in public places, the governments of the Fourth and early Fifth Republics began the construction of huge housing projects. These included the \"villes nouvelles\" (\"New towns\") of Sarcelles, Cergy-Pontoise, Marne-la-Vallée and Sénart. These were financed in part by the Marshall Plan, and organized through central planning, fixing industrial objectives to meet (\"Dirigisme\"). The \"villes nouvelles\" owe much to Le Corbusier's architectural theories, which had been decried before the war.\n\nDuring the \"Trente Glorieuses\", a period of economic growth which lasted from the war's end until the 1973 oil crisis, and was accompanied by the baby boom, the French state and industrials encouraged immigration of young workers from the former colonies, mostly from the Maghreb (both Berbers and Arabs), to help fill labor shortages.\n\nIn 1962, upon the conclusion of the Algerian War 900,000 \"pieds-noirs\" (the European \"colons\" in Algeria, but also Maghrebi Jews) were repatriated to France, as well as most of the 91,000 Harkis (native Algerians who fought with the French army during the war). The latter were put in internment camps, while the pieds-noirs settled mainly in the south of France. For example, the city of Montpellier experienced population growth of 94% between 1954 and 1975 (97,501 to 191,354). Harkis were not officially given permission to migrate, but some French military officers helped facilitate their migration to France in order to save them from certain reprisals in Algeria. After being freed from the internment camps, many harkis went on to live alongside other Algerian and Maghrebi (both Berbers and Arabs) immigrants in shantytowns. In 1963, 43% of French Algerians lived in shantytowns. Azouz Begag, Delegate Minister for Equal Opportunities in the government of former Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin (UMP), has written an autobiographic novel, \"Le Gone du Chaâba\", describing his experience living in a shantytown on the outskirts of Lyon.\n\nThe vast new apartment blocks, or flats, were at first chiefly inhabited by members of the middle class. As the housing situation improved, most middle-class residents moved to better houses and immigrants left the shantytowns for the blocks. The blocks are termed \"HLM\" — \"habitation à loyer modéré\" (\"moderated rent flats\"), and districts of blocks are termed \"cités\" (housing estates). You can see some Parisian housing estates here: . A popular urban planning concept at this time, popularized by Le Corbusier, a Swiss architect, was to separate areas of towns or cities according to several functions: living center (blocks), commercial center and working center, with the centers being connected by buses. This led to the isolation of the living centers, with two consequences:\n\n\nThis model became increasingly contested; in the 1990s there were a number of demolitions of housing facilities in \"inhumane\" areas.\n\nSome towns refused to build social buildings, leaving the poor further concentrated in certain towns which placed no or few restrictions on the construction of social housing. An example is the city of Paris: when old buildings were destroyed, only office and high-rent apartment buildings were constructed in their place, preventing the poor from settling in those neighborhoods. Most were forced to live in the northern suburbs (chiefly in the Seine-Saint-Denis and Val d'oise departments). In \"The Global City\" (2001), Saskia Sassen has analyzed the relationship between a new economic model and the shape of modern cities. The public services offered (number of police officers, post offices, etc.) did not follow the tremendous increase of the population in these areas. This phenomenon has been termed \"ghettoisation.\"\n\nThe 13 December 2000 \"SRU law\" (\"loi de solidarité et renouvellement urbain\", \"solidarity and urban renewal act\"), required that communes devote at least 20% of their housing capacity to social housing. Many locally elected officials opposed the law, which sought to relieve residential segregation that had developed as a consequence of the earlier, uneven construction of the \"cités\". In the wealthy Parisian suburb of Neuilly-sur-Seine, of which President Nicolas Sarkozy served as mayor from 1983–2002, less than 2.5% of its housing stock meets the social-housing criteria. After the 2005 riots, the government announced that it would enforce the SRU law more strictly, although it would accommodate local circumstances such as the absence of land on which social housing could be built.\n\nThe children of immigrants often feel torn between the culture of their parents and the culture they have grown up in. Many may feel themselves fully belonging to neither one.\n\nA typical illustration of this is the use by some members of the French media of the words \"second-generation from immigration\" (\"deuxième génération issue de l'immigration\", opposed to \"just arrived\", \"primo-arrivants\"). If a child is born in France, they are not an immigrant, so the expression \"second-generation immigrants\" is a misnomer. According to anti-racist associations such as SOS Racisme, this reflects the ambiguity of the administration, who consider these people to be both French and foreign at the same time. Children of immigrants also complain about the use of the term \"integration\" (\"intégration\"): the integration in the society (i.e. the acceptance of the laws and customs of the adoptive country) is a necessity for a foreigner; but for someone that has been born and raised in the country, it is improper to ask them to \"integrate\" into it.\n\nPerhaps the main reason for the alienation perceived among the younger generations in the poorest French suburbs is the perceived racism, both casual and institutional. In this particular regard, France has long had a problem with dealing with both its present and its historical memory, especially with respect to its colonial past and its role during World War II—especially significant, for instance, is the lack of attention around the Paris massacre of 1961 and the still ongoing controversy surrounding the number of victims therein, an amount which as recently as ten years ago was still officially recognized as below 50 although most independent accounts place it by the hundreds. The February 23, 2005 law on colonialism, voted by the UMP conservative majority, stating that the positive consequences of colonization must be taught to students, created a wide uproar, including among many university teachers outraged by what they have called a mark of \"historical revisionism\", and an infringement on the legal principle of academic freedom.\n\nToday, children of immigrants claim that they frequently encounter economic segregation or racism: they have problems getting a job, or finding an apartment, or even entering a nightclub, because of their names or skin color. The association SOS Racisme, which has close ties to the French Socialist Party, has claimed to have found experimental proof of such racism:\n\nThe politically correct term for those discriminated against is \"visible minority\" (\"minorité visible\"), due to the fact that the segregation applies to any visible feature (color of skin, dress, name) and is not related to the ethnic group itself.\n\nIn some neighborhoods in the \"banlieue\", unemployment exceeded 40% in 2005. One explanation for this is that the general level of education in these areas is well below the national average, which, in a context where it is difficult to find jobs requiring little or no qualifications, is bound to generate high unemployment. According to the BBC, the unemployment rate for university graduates of French origin is 5%; this can be compared to the unemployment rate of 26.5% for university graduates of North African origin. According to the BBC, the inability of educated people who happen to be nonwhite to obtain employment and the connection to documented racism have left many feeling that they face dim prospects regardless of their actions.\n\nFrench law restricts the access to most civil service jobs (\"fonction publique\") for people who do not have french nationality, though there are exceptions to this: some highly qualified positions (e.g. public research and higher education) are open regardless of citizenship, while some positions (e.g. defense and law enforcement) are open only to French citizens. Some sensitive positions (e.g. defense and the nuclear industry) may be difficult to obtain for people with close ties to \"problem countries\". Finally, not all public jobs fall into the civil service, and restrictions generally do not apply to non-civil service public positions.\n\nResidents of the \"banlieues\" frequently complain that they are subject to racial profiling by the police (\"face features offense\", \"délit de faciès\"). \"Identity Controls\" — unannounced places where police demand identity papers from whomever they choose are extremely unpopular and seen as unbefitting a free society. Witnesses to these identity controls confirm that only nonwhites are commonly asked for their papers. The use of identity controls contributes to widespread distrust of police in the \"banlieues\".\n\nThe perception that French police are effectively immune to the law, especially with regard to offenses committed against nonwhites, has also helped to fuel anger against them in the \"banlieue\". The French newspaper \"Le Monde\" has written that \"Justice is at a special tariff for police officers: they are never seriously punished.\" Cases such as one in which an eight-month suspended sentence was given to two police officers for manslaughter by asphyxiation against a black man have contributed to the belief that the police are unaccountable to the citizens who employ them. In April 2005, Amnesty International released a report that suggested that the French judicial system tacitly supports racially motivated violence by police.\n\nIn contrast, some in the right and especially the far-right, such as Jean-Marie Le Pen, claim that youth from the \"banlieues\" enjoy \"de facto\" immunity from prosecution and that most of them should be either sent back to the country of their origin or stripped of their French citizenship. They claim that the police and the prosecution are ordered by the government to be lenient, so as not to attract the wrath of left-wing and pro-immigration organisations.\n\nA new report of Amnesty International investigates racially motivated executions, murders and abuses committed by the French police and the leniency expressed by the French government into investigating such cases has been published April 2, 2009. The report has mostly been censored by French news.\n\nAs in every country, some areas have a very high unemployment rate. As the social security, unemployment and other welfare system benefits are not indefinite, and are predicated upon having had a job at one point, families with no paid income do not benefit from the usually generous French social security system. In addition, the amount and duration are based on length of employment and the specific employment contract, further disadvantaging the unskilled immigrants in the banlieues. Welfare benefits include housing benefits and \"allocations familiales\" (welfare benefits for children). The sum that is paid to a non-working family is similar to that which one would receive working at a minimum wage part-time job. In France, there is a minimum salary called the SMIC: \"salaire minimum interprofessionnel de croissance\". This is the minimal interprofessional wage which follows the economic growth of the country . It is illegal to hire someone for less than it. In 2005, the SMIC was 8.86 EUR per hour, 1,217.88 EUR per month for a full-time job.\n\nIf a family has fewer than three children, it will usually receive financial aid in the form of Aide Personnalisée au Logement (APL), personalised accommodation help), which is calculated according to the aggregate revenue of the household, and can account for as much as a third or even a half of the rent amount. If the family has three or more children it is not eligible for APL, but receives \"allocation familiales\" (family allowance), the amount of which depends on both the revenue of the household and the number of children, but it is not linear (the difference in the allocation between three and four children is higher than that between five and six, for example). The money is paid to the household, not individually. The housing projects are not rent-free, but are relatively inexpensive, and there tends to be an abundance of cheap rental accommodation in the \"zones sensibles\" (sensitive urban zone).\n\nIn France, the costs of seeing a doctor and obtaining medicine are at least partially refunded by the government, with the proportion varying between 30% and 100%. Low-income families receive CMU (\"Couverture maladie universelle\" - universal health allowance), a law voted in 1997 by Lionel Jospin's Plural Left government, meaning that not only 100% of the cost of medical expenses is paid for, but also that it is not necessary to pay up front for service. The CMU, however, only applies to very poor families. Those in higher income brackets must pay initially and then apply for reimbursement.\n\nEducation is compulsory to age 16. After this age, school is optional and is carried out in the lycée (high school) in preparation for the \"baccalauréat\", an academic degree. Entrance to both the \"college\" (middle school) and \"lycée\" are based upon a \"sectorisation\" system (called \"carte scolaire\"), which assigns students to schools geographically. However, one can attend a different public high school through other means, including following a special course of study (such as studying a less-commonly learned language, such as Portuguese). As in many countries, the quality of education offered by different public high schools varies. Some parents chose to send their children to private high schools for a small cost, most of them also receiving funding from government through a contract of association with the Minister of National Education (around 2,2 millions students in 2007), other forms of private education (simple contract, outside contract and education at home) being really marginal.\n\nHigher education is divided into three different categories: Universities, which are public; \"Grandes écoles\" which are public or private, and further study in a lycée towards a \"Brevet de Technicien Supérieur\". Entrance to all is based upon the completion of the \"baccalauréat\". Universities are the only ones which are allowed to deliver the title of Doctor, hence PhDs, medical doctors and dentists are all educated at \"universities\". Also, \"universities\" are not free, with fees ranging from €100 to €600 and social security payments (€200) may be demanded for students who are older than 20. This may be a lot for some students, although those from poor families are exempt from paying fees and social security.\n\nEntrance to the \"grandes écoles\" is earned through a national contest after the equivalent of two years of further study at a university. Costing between nothing and €6,000 annually, they enjoy a very good reputation amongst employers. On the other hand, public universities also give good education and graduates from universities have a reputation for being well-educated and well-trained, but there are significant differences between curricula, with some (such as medical schools) being highly selective and possessing a strong reputation, while some others are overcrowded and may not offer good job prospects. Given the large number of students that graduate annually, it can be challenging for a new graduates from a university to get a job without additional qualifications.\n\nStudent housing is generally inexpensive, ranging from €70 to €200 per month. However, students from poor backgrounds may have their rent paid for by the government, along with a monthly grant with which to buy food and books.\n\nAs in other countries, the quality of education received, and the peer group to which one belongs, can depend upon the school the child attends. In the \"zones sensibles\", students may struggle to see the opportunities offered to them by the French education system. In addition, the teachers at these schools are frequently the least experienced, as those with more experience may avoid working in the 'zones sensibles' if possible. This can affect the quality of education that low-income students receive. To counter these effects, the French government established a system known as \"ZEP\" (\"zones of priority education\"), with incentives for teachers to work in the zones, as well as increased government funding. The ZEP system, though, was criticized by the right-wing government which took power in 2002; in 2005, Nicolas Sarkozy, as head of the UMP, the leading right-wing party, proposed a total reform of the system, which he deems insufficient.\n\nThe family background of low-income students can be critical to their success. In poorer areas, parents are often uneducated, and many women, in particular, are illiterate. In addition, families may be plagued by instability as caregivers may be obliged to work far away from home. To these concerns may be added motivational problems: some youth in the \"banlieues\", perceiving French society to be biased against them, may see little point in obtaining a French education.\n\nSocial policies implemented by the French government since 1981 include: minimal income for social insertion (\"revenu minimum d'insertion\", RMI), universal health insurance (\"couverture maladie universelle\") and housing allowances (subsidies for home councils in case of HLM, or direct help with the rent in the case of the personalised accommodation help, \"aide personnalisée au logement\", APL), help for the children (\"Caisse d'allocations familiales\"). The results of this policies are still debated.\n\nRight-wing parties have criticized this policy on several points:\n\nPoverty rates are higher than the national average in the \"cités\"; those for 2005 are shown below (national averages in parentheses):\n\n\nThe \"cités\" contain a higher proportion of children and adolescents than in the rest of France: 31.5% of their population is 19 or younger, compared with 24.5% nationwide.\n\nThe first suburban violence is believed to have occurred in 1979 in Vaulx-en-Velin in suburban Lyon. The first event to receive wide media coverage, however, was that in the \"Minguettes\" at Vénissieux, also near Lyon. After another violent episode in Vénissieux in March 1983, the Front National improved its standing in local elections, tapping into widespread fears that the violence would continue. Since then there have been both violent and nonviolent events in the \"cités\", including:\n\n\nPolicymakers have used two different approaches to curb violence in the French suburbs. Some have advocated the management of poverty and social isolation by deploying social workers, forming school aid associations, and instituting crime prevention programs (the 'soft' approach). Others have taken a more hard-line stance, asserting that the best way to curb the violence is to increase the police presence in poor and violence-prone neighborhoods (the 'stick' approach).\n\nAlthough there is no legal apartheid in France, in the sense there is no official will for separation of people, the \"apartheid\" word has been used by many politics and journalists.\n\nFor instance, prime minister Manuel Valls considers that France faces an \"«apartheid territorial, social, ethnique »\" which could be translated in English words as an ethnic, social and territorial apartheid.\n\nDuring most of the period when Algeria was part of France (1830-1962), Malékite Muslim right and French right were nor merged resulting in the fact that Algerian Muslims were treated differently under law from French citizens, a situation which has been described as \"quasi-apartheid\". Although formally the Malékite Muslim right has not existed in metropolitan France, Algerian people coming in (metropolitan) France had to follow French law, this system has been understood to have continued in France, informally, after the repeal of the relevant laws and the independence of Algeria. According to Paul A. Silverstein, associate professor of anthropology at Reed College and author of \"Algeria in France: Transpolitics, Race, and Nation\", and Chantal Tetreault, assistant professor of anthropology at University of North Carolina at Charlotte, who has researched and written extensively on language, gender, and social exclusion in French suburban housing projects, the colonial apartheid in Algeria has been re-created in the cities of France:\n\nAs such, the colonial dual cities described by North African urban theorists Janet Abu-Lughod, Zeynep Çelik, Paul Rabinow, and Gwendolyn Wright — in which native medinas were kept isolated from European settler neighborhoods out of competing concerns of historical preservation, public hygiene, and security — have been effectively re-created in the postcolonial present, with contemporary urban policy and policing maintaining suburban cités and their residents in a state of immobile apartheid, at a perpetual distance from urban, bourgeois centers.\n\nRalph Peters, in an article about the 2005 civil unrest in France, wrote that France's apartheid has a distinctly racial aspect. In his view, France's \"5 million brown and black residents\" have \"failed to appreciate discrimination, jobless rates of up to 50 percent, public humiliation, crime, bigotry and, of course, the glorious French culture that excluded them through an informal apartheid system.\" Left-wing French senator Roland Muzeau has blamed this apartheid on the right, insisting that it is responsible for both a \"social\" and \"spatial\" apartheid in cities controlled by the right, pointing out as an example that Nicolas Sarkozy, from 1983 to 2002 mayor of Neuilly-sur-Seine, refused to permit the construction of any public housing in the city.\n\nFrench media also tend to ignore blacks and North Africans, failing to market to them, and not representing them in television, print, the internet, or advertisements. This in turn has led to protests against \"l'apartheid culturel\". against which is engaged the .\n\nFollowing this constat, and under Jacques Chirac impulsion, some people have been changed to present TV programs. On TF1 channel one black or Arab person appeared. Other TV channels have also reconsidered some issues, such as TF1, France Télévision, Canal+, Arte France, M6 France 24 BFM La chaîne parlementaire et le Public Sénat.\n\nSome have argued that the claims of apartheid in France are a consequence of the rise of Islamic fundamentalism among some French Muslims, and not just government policy. This argument has been made in the debates about the 2005 French law on secularity and conspicuous religious symbols in schools, which was formulated primarily to prohibit girls from wearing the \"hijab\" in schools. It should however be noted that this argument originated in the far-right nationalist French party of Jean-Marie Le-Pen and was adopted by then French president Nicolas Sarkozy. Gilles Kepel, who co-authored this law, argued that it was not \"acceptable\" for members of different religions groups to primarily identify themselves as members of their faith (and secondarily as French) by wearing conspicuous religious symbols, as the end result would be \"a sort of apartheid\". Some French Muslim women also see the \"apartheid\" as being internally imposed by the French Muslim community, and the issue as not one about religious freedom, but rather \"about saving schoolgirls from a kind of apartheid that was increasingly imposed by men in their community\".\n\nThese debates also mirror earlier crises, particularly the \"headscarf affair\" of 1989, when three Muslim girls were excluded from schools for wearing headscarves. The affair triggered national debate in France, revealed previously unusual alliances between the left, feminists, and the right, and exposed differing views of and visions for the nature of French society. According to Maxim Silverman:\n\nIn the headscarf affair this 'vision', in its most extreme form, was often polarised in terms of the Republic \"or\" fundamentalism (secularism or fanaticism), the Republic \"or\" separate development (integration or apartheid). The problem for large parts of the Left was that they were often sharing the same discourse as Le Pen who used the affair to warn against 'the islamicisation of France'… in a splended example of the either/or choice facing France, in which there was is a convergence of many of the discursive elements mentioned above, the Prime Minister Michel Rocard announced on 2 December 1989, that France cannot be 'a juxtaposition of communities', must be founded on common values and must not follow the Anglo-Saxon model which allows ethnic groups to barricade themselves inside geographical and cultural ghettos leading to 'soft forms of apartheid' (quoted in \"Le Monde\", 7 December 1989).\n\nAmir Taheri argues that communities dominated by immigrants and their descendants encourage native French to leave, making assimilation difficult, as these groups can effectively live their whole lives without becoming familiar with the French language or culture. In his view, this leads to alienation, and \"that, in turn, gives radical Islamists an opportunity to propagate their message of religious and cultural apartheid\". He states that some are even calling for a formalization of the \"de facto\" \"millet\" system in Muslim-majority areas, where Muslim men and women are forced to conform to Muslim dress codes, \"places of sin\" such as \"dancing halls, cinemas and theaters\" forced to shut down, and French purveyors of liquor and pork products are forced out entirely.\n\nMinette Marrin of \"The Sunday Times\", while recognizing that \"poverty and rejection\" have \"played a significant part\" in the problem, also believes that some French Muslims have \"retreat[ed] into more extreme forms of Islam and into the arms of fundamentalists\", and that Westerners have been unwilling to recognize this as \"deliberate separatism — apartheid.\"\n\nThe French periodical \"Le Monde Diplomatique\", however, disagrees with this assessment, and devoted two entire articles to the discussion of \"urban apartheid\" and \"educational apartheid\" in France, citing them as the two main factors in the explosive 2005 French youth riots. Stating that the controversy of Islamic headscarves was a \"smokescreen\", it argues that \"[a] few villains or a handful of Muslim \"brothers\"\" cannot be held responsible for \"the ghettoization of more than 700 (ZUS, \"sensitive urban areas\": government-designated problem areas) and their 5 million inhabitants.\" The authors agree with Laurent Bonelli that the violence was the result of \"a process of urban apartheid\" as well as \"discrimination and racism that afflict young Berber, Arabs and Blacks\".\n\nMontpellier's socialist mayor, Hélène Mandroux objects to the term \"apartheid\" in relation to France's treatment of African minorities, arguing that \"Terms like urban apartheid are over-dramatic. We recognize the problem and we are trying to deal with it, but this is not Johannesburg in the 1980s.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36533740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36533740", "title": "Somali aristocratic and court titles", "text": "Somali aristocratic and court titles\n\nThis is a list of Somali aristocratic and court titles that were historically used by the Somali people's various sultanates, kingdoms and empires. Also included are the honorifics reserved for Islamic notables as well as traditional leaders and officials within the Somali customary law (\"xeer\"), in addition to the nobiliary particles set aside for distinguished individuals.\n\nBelow is a list of the royal court titles historically retained by the Somali monarchies and aristocracies.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nIslamic leaders within Somali society were often drawn from or elevated to the noble ranks. Below is a list of the titles most often used historically by the clergymen (ulama):\n\n\nBelow is a list of the titles traditionally employed by leaders and officials within the Somali customary law or \"xeer\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44426477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44426477", "title": "Sudha Kaul", "text": "Sudha Kaul\n\nSudha Kaul is an Indian social worker and educationist, known for her services for the rehabilitation of physically challenged people. Dr. Kaul is the vice chairperson of the Indian Institute of Cerebral Palsy (IICP) and the founder Principal of the Centre for Special Education. Holder of a doctoral degree in Augmentative and Alternative Communication (AAC) from Manchester Metropolitan University, Kaul is credited with many books on the subject. She has served in many Government committees and held the chair of a government committee formulated to draft new laws for the disabled citizens of India. The Government of India honored her in 2010, with the fourth highest civilian award of Padma Shri.\n\n"}
{"id": "10645038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10645038", "title": "Turks in Japan", "text": "Turks in Japan\n\nTurks in Japan (; ) are Turks living in Japan. The term has historically included Turkic (particularly Volga Tatar) émigrés and immigrants from former Russian Empire most of whom later acquired Turkish citizenship.\n\nIn the early 20th century, groups of Tatars immigrated from Kazan, Russia, to Japan. The community became led by the Bashkir émigré imam Muhammed-Gabdulkhay Kurbangaliev who had fought on the side of the White movement in the Russian Civil War, and arrived in Japan in 1924; he then set up an organisation to bring together the Tatars living in Tokyo. Tatars in Japan founded their first mosque and school in 1935 in Kobe, and another in Tokyo in 1938, with support from Kurbangaliev's organisation. Another Tatar organisation, the Mohammedan Printing Office in Tokyo, printed the first Qur'an in Japan as well as a Tatar-language magazine in Arabic script, the \"Japan Intelligencer\"; it continued publication until the 1940s. Most of the Tatars emigrated after World War II. Those remaining took up Turkish citizenship in the 1950s.\nBut There are 600-2,000 Tatars in Japan.They are almost mixed.\n\nThough the Turkish community has diminished in size, those remaining founded the Tokyo Camii and Turkish Cultural Center in 2000. In the following decade, there was a new wave of migration from Turkey, mostly consisting of people from the Fatsa area.\n\nSome Turkish citizens in Japan are ethnic Kurds.\n\nIn 2015 a clash took place outside the Turkish embassy in Tokyo between Kurds and Turks, it was claimed that this began when Turks and Kurds got into a quarrel after a Kurdish party flag was shown at the embassy.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37814533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37814533", "title": "William Healy (neurologist)", "text": "William Healy (neurologist)\n\nWilliam Healy (January 20, 1869 – March 15, 1963) was a British-American psychiatrist and criminologist who started the earliest American child guidance clinic, was a pioneer of psychoanalysis in the United States, and served as the American Orthopsychiatric Association's founding president. \n\nHealy was born in Buckinghamshire, England on January 20, 1869. He came from a family of farmers who had resided in Farnham Commons of Beaconsfield, twenty-five miles northwest of London for generations. When he was nine, his family immigrated to the United States, finally settling in Chicago where Healy spent the remainder of his childhood.\n\nAt fourteen, before finishing eighth grade, Healy began work as an office boy at a bank. The small bank was somewhat of a “cultural storehouse” with Shakespearean scholars, poets, and conductors for employees. Over the next ten years, Healy became head “bookkeeper” before applying to Harvard. \n\nHealy likely received encouragement from William Salter, leader of the Chicago Ethical Cultural Society, Harvard alumnus, and brother-in-law of William James, to apply to Harvard. Healy failed the Latin portion of the Harvard required exams but was still awarded a degree and studied at Harvard Medical School for three years before returning to Chicago and completing his degree at University of Chicago’s Rush Medical School specializing in gynecology.\n\nHealy began his career in 1901 as an instructor in gynecology at Northwestern Medical School. During his two year stint there, he also edited the journal \"Gynecology and Anatomy and Physiology and Pathology\". During this time his interest began to shift toward neurology, and in 1903 he took up a post as instructor of Nervous and Mental Diseases at Chicago Polyclinic. He stayed at this post until 1916, while simultaneously running a private practice in general medicine. \n\nIn 1906 and 1907, Healy studied in Vienna, Berlin, and London, and it was during this trip that he was exposed to Freud’s \"Interpretation of Dreams\". Healy became very interested in Freud’s psychoanalysis while remaining skeptical of Freud’s focus on infantile sexuality. He was a significant factor in bringing psychoanalysis to the United States, and published \"Structure and Meaning of Psychoanalysis\" in 1931. \n\nAt a 1908 meeting at the Hull House, which Healy had been involved with since medical school, he organized a research program with juvenile delinquents in the juvenile court system. Healy traveled the country discussing his ideas, and in 1909 led the formation of the Chicago Juvenile Psychopathic Institute. This was the first child guidance clinic.\nIn 1917, Healy left Chicago for Boston to head the Judge Baker Foundation, a similar institution for juvenile research. Until he retired in 1947, Healy continued to conduct research at the Judge Baker Foundation, which became known as the Judge Baker Guidance Center. During this time period, he also taught periodically at Harvard, Boston College, and Yale.\n\nHealy considered himself to be a psychiatrist and therapist rather than a criminologist, but he made major contributions on both sides of the spectrum. He is perhaps best known for his work in juvenile delinquency, and particularly for his creation of the first child guidance clinic. His psychiatric aims included hearing the “child’s own story” in order to create a viewpoint from the child itself rather than other sources. In criminology, he is known for supporting the multifactor theory of crime causation, which began to move the American view on crime away from the traditional European view. His work with juvenile populations led him to identify certain “causes,” as well as major and minor “factors” that appeared to contribute to delinquent behavior. However, his factors have faced criticism from others for not appearing to be truly descriptive of the populations he studied. Even Healy criticized himself for not investigating further the factors he created. His major published work, \"The Individual Delinquent\", detailed the work that he did with factors and is considered to be his best-known work.\n\nHealy's first wife died. In 1932, he married American psychologist Augusta Fox Bronner (1881–1966), whom he had first met in 1913. Bronner was his long-term collaborator; they co-wrote multiple publications on juvenile delinquency. Healy died in Florida in 1963.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32698736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32698736", "title": "Yansi language", "text": "Yansi language\n\nYans (Yanzi) is a Bantu language spoken in the Democratic Republic of Congo. \n\nThere are six language varieties Guthrie classified as Bantu B.85 (Yans). According to Nurse (2003), most belong to the Yaka language, but one or two are assigned to the Boma–Dzing languages (ex-Yanzi); he does not say which ones.\n\nMaho (2009) notes that the Tsong variety of Yansi is the unclassified \"Songo\" language of \"Ethnologue\" and is the one that does not belong with the rest. Ehret (2009), however, retains most varieties in B.80 and classifies only \"Yanz Kimatu\" as Yaka. The six Guthrie varieties are the following:\n\n"}
{"id": "24104350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24104350", "title": "Zimbabweans in Botswana", "text": "Zimbabweans in Botswana\n\nThere is a significant population of Zimbabweans in Botswana.\n\nEconomic and political problems in Zimbabwe have led to significant increases in migration to Botswana since the early 2000s. By 2003, it was estimated that there were 40,000 Zimbabwean migrants in the country, of whom only one-third were resident legally. Many reside in the Ledumadumane suburb of the capital Gaborone. There is also a camp for Zimbabwean refugees at Dukwe.\n\nThe number of undocumented Zimbabwean migrants in Botswana was estimated at between forty and one hundred thousand . In 2012, Botswana deported 17,402 Zimbabweans, while in 2013 it had already deported 22,675 in the first ten months of the year.\n\nThe illegal immigration issue has produced various tensions between the governments of Botswana and Zimbabwe, with Paul Mangwana even threatening to expel all Botswana nationals from Zimbabwe in response to the alleged poor treatment which Zimbabweans face in Botswana. Botswana claims to have deported 26,717 Zimbabweans residing in the country illegally in 2002. Beginning the following year, they also began to build an electrified fence along their boundary with Zimbabwe. Botswana's agricultural officials assert that the main purpose of the fence is to stop animal rather than human migration, with the aim of preventing the transmission of foot-and-mouth disease, but Zimbabwe's high commissioner in Gaborone rejects this explanation, calling it an attempt to make Zimbabwe into a \"Gaza Strip\". One survey found a support rate of 63% for the fence.\n\nHuman rights abuses faced by Zimbabweans in Botswana have also become the subject of a play entitled \"Voice of the People\", with actors from both countries.\n\nZimbabweans are the most numerous nationality among registered foreign workers in Botswana. More than half of Zimbabwean migrant workers are employed in cow herding and similar agricultural occupations, while others work in construction, real estate, retail, education, health and manufacturing. Others, especially the more-easily-exploited irregular migrants, are engaged as maids or in sex work.\n\n\n\n"}
