{"id": "1393811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1393811", "title": "Agnostic theism", "text": "Agnostic theism\n\nAgnostic theism, agnostotheism or agnostitheism is the philosophical view that encompasses both theism and agnosticism. An agnostic theist believes in the existence of a god or gods, but regards the basis of this proposition as \"unknown or inherently unknowable\". The agnostic theist may also or alternatively be agnostic regarding the properties of the god or gods that they believe in.\n\nThere are numerous beliefs that can be included in agnostic theism, such as fideism, the doctrine that knowledge depends on faith or revelation; not all agnostic theists are fideists. Since agnosticism is in the philosophical rather than religious sense a position on knowledge and does not forbid belief in a deity, it is compatible with most theistic positions.\n\nThe classical philosophical understanding of knowledge is that knowledge is justified true belief. The founder of logotherapy, Viktor Frankl, may have well exemplified this definition. Seidner expands upon this example and stresses Frankl's characterization of \"unconscious\". Agnostic theism could be interpreted as an admission that it is not possible to justify one's belief in a god sufficiently for it to be considered known. This may be because they consider faith a requirement of their religion, or because of the influence of plausible-seeming scientific or philosophical criticism.\n\nChristian Agnostics practice a distinct form of agnosticism that applies only to the \"properties\" of God. They hold that it is difficult or impossible to be sure of anything beyond the basic tenets of the Christian faith. They believe that God exists, that Jesus has a special relationship with him and is in some way divine, and that God should be worshipped. This belief system has deep roots in Judaism and the early days of the Church.\n\n"}
{"id": "3167611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3167611", "title": "Armless wonder", "text": "Armless wonder\n\nAn armless wonder was a person without arms who was exhibited, usually at a circus sideshow. Typically (but not exclusively) a woman, she would perform various tricks using her feet and toes, such as smoking a cigarette or writing. Frequently, she would have a supply of visiting cards which, for an extra charge, she would sign with her feet and give to onlookers.\nThe armless wonder was often one of the most highly paid people of the sideshow. In times when the exposure of even a female ankle was considered risqué, a pretty young woman who performed feats of dexterity with her toes would inevitably attract a great deal of prurient interest.\n\nExamples of armless wonders of the early 20th century are Frances O'Connor and Martha Morris, both of whom also appeared in the 1932 film, Freaks. Another example from the late 19th century was Anne Leak (pictured) who usually included a few simple lines of verse when she signed her visiting cards, such as the following:\nExamples of male armless wonders are Carl Unthan and Charles B. Tripp.\n\n"}
{"id": "15648679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15648679", "title": "Bibliophile mailing list", "text": "Bibliophile mailing list\n\nThe Bibliophile Mailing List is an electronic mailing list for sellers and collectors of rare, out-of-print and scarce books. Booksellers, librarians, students, scholars, and book lovers, share news and discussions on all manner of topics of interest to bibliophiles, as well as posting books wanted and books for sale listings.\n\nThe Bibliophile Mailing List was started in 1994 by Michael Medlin at the Claremont Colleges in the United States. By early 1995 the Iris.Claremont.Edu server hosting the list could no longer handle the bandwidth. The list membership had grown to over 550, and with an average of 15 to 20 posts per day, the volume of email was large. In February 1995 responsibility for managing the list was taken on by Shoshana Edwards, owner of Books From Bree. The list was moved to SmartDOCS.com in the Santa Clarita Valley of Southern California, where it was run on an Oracle-based server.\n\nIn the summer of 1997 Lynn DeWeese-Parkinson took over the list adding a bit of whimsy by changing the title from \"List Owner\" to \"Grand Poohbah\" and declaring its location in the polity of Bibliotenango. The list and the whimsy has continued with events such as the annual \"running of the book scouts\" on the day of St. John of God, the patron of booksellers. Today its membership is just over 1000 booksellers, collectors, librarians, and general bibliophiles.\n\nBibliophile is a closed list. Only subscribers are allowed to post and are expected to observe the amenities of good manners and professional behavior. It is not monitored but the discussions are followed by its Grand Poohbah who attempts to keep them within freely drawn bounds. It has a fee of $30 per year due after a two-week free trial period. Its members are drawn from around the world and include many of the most knowledgeable of bibliophiles.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6293", "title": "Cairo", "text": "Cairo\n\nCairo ( ; \"\", ; \"Kashromi\") is the capital of Egypt. The city's metropolitan area is one of the largest in Africa, the largest in the Middle East and the Arab world, and the 15th-largest in the world, and is associated with ancient Egypt, as the famous Giza pyramid complex and the ancient city of Memphis are located in its geographical area. Located near the Nile Delta, modern Cairo was founded in 969 CE by the Fatimid dynasty, but the land composing the present-day city was the site of ancient national capitals whose remnants remain visible in parts of Old Cairo. Cairo has long been a centre of the region's political and cultural life, and is titled \"the city of a thousand minarets\" for its preponderance of Islamic architecture. Cairo is considered a World City with a \"Beta +\" classification according to GaWC.\n\nCairo has the oldest and largest film and music industries in the Arab world, as well as the world's second-oldest institution of higher learning, Al-Azhar University. Many international media, businesses, and organizations have regional headquarters in the city; the Arab League has had its headquarters in Cairo for most of its existence.\n\nWith a population of over 9 million spread over , Cairo is by far the largest city in Egypt. An additional 9.5 million inhabitants live in close proximity to the city. Cairo, like many other megacities, suffers from high levels of pollution and traffic. Cairo's metro, one of two in Africa (the other being in Algiers, Algeria), ranks among the fifteen busiest in the world, with over 1 billion annual passenger rides. The economy of Cairo was ranked first in the Middle East in 2005, and 43rd globally on \"Foreign Policy\" 2010 Global Cities Index.\n\nEgyptians often refer to Cairo as ' (; ), the Egyptian Arabic name for Egypt itself, emphasizing the city's importance for the country. Its official name ' () means \"the Vanquisher\" or \"the Conqueror\", supposedly due to the fact that the planet Mars, \"an-Najm al-Qāhir\" (, \"the Conquering Star\"), was rising at the time when the city was founded, possibly also in reference to the much awaited arrival of the Fatimid Caliph Al-Mu'izz who reached Cairo in 973 from Mahdia, the old Fatimid capital. The location of the ancient city of Heliopolis is the suburb of Ain Shams (, \"Eye of the Sun\").\n\nThe Coptic name of the city is \"Kashromi\" () which means \"man breaker\" (\"ⲕⲁϣ-\" – to break, \"ⲣⲱⲙⲓ\" – man) which is akin to Arabic \"\".\n\nSometimes the city is informally referred to as ' by people from Alexandria (; ).\n\nThe area around present-day Cairo, especially Memphis that was the old capital of Egypt, had long been a focal point of Ancient Egypt due to its strategic location just upstream from the Nile Delta. However, the origins of the modern city are generally traced back to a series of settlements in the first millennium. Around the turn of the 4th century, as Memphis was continuing to decline in importance, the Romans established a fortress town along the east bank of the Nile. This fortress, known as Babylon, was the nucleus of the Roman and then the Byzantine city and is the oldest structure in the city today. It is also situated at the nucleus of the Coptic Orthodox community, which separated from the Roman and Byzantine churches in the late 4th century. Many of Cairo's oldest Coptic churches, including the Hanging Church, are located along the fortress walls in a section of the city known as Coptic Cairo.\n\nFollowing the Muslim conquest in 640 AD, the conqueror Amr ibn As settled to the north of the Babylon in an area that became known as al-Fustat. Originally a tented camp (\"Fustat\" signifies \"City of Tents\") Fustat became a permanent settlement and the first capital of Islamic Egypt.\n\nIn 750, following the overthrow of the Ummayad caliphate by the Abbasids, the new rulers created their own settlement to the northeast of Fustat which became their capital. This was known as al-Askar (the city of sections, or cantonments) as it was laid out like a military camp.\n\nA rebellion in 869 by Ahmad ibn Tulun led to the abandonment of Al Askar and the building of another settlement, which became the seat of government. This was al-Qatta'i (\"the Quarters\"), to the north of Fustat and closer to the river. Al Qatta'i was centred around a palace and ceremonial mosque, now known as the Mosque of ibn Tulun.\n\nIn 905, the Abbasids re-asserted control of the country and their governor returned to Fustat, razing al-Qatta'i to the ground.\nSince 1860s, Cairo expanded west as far as what is called now (Midan Opera)\n\nIn 968, the Fatimids were led by general Jawhar al-Siqilli to establish a new capital for the Fatimid dynasty. Egypt was conquered from their base in Ifriqiya and a new fortified city northeast of Fustat was established. It took four years to build the city, initially known as al-Manṣūriyyah, which was to serve as the new capital of the caliphate. During that time, Jawhar also commissioned the construction of the al-Azhar Mosque by order of the Caliph, which developed into the third-oldest university in the world. Cairo would eventually become a centre of learning, with the library of Cairo containing hundreds of thousands of books. When Caliph al-Mu'izz li Din Allah arrived from the old Fatimid capital of Mahdia in Tunisia in 973, he gave the city its present name, \"al-Qāhiratu\" (\"The Victorious\").\n\nFor nearly 200 years after Cairo was established, the administrative centre of Egypt remained in Fustat. However, in 1168 the Fatimids under the leadership of vizier Shawar set fire to Fustat to prevent Cairo's capture by the Crusaders. Egypt's capital was permanently moved to Cairo, which was eventually expanded to include the ruins of Fustat and the previous capitals of al-Askar and al-Qatta'i. As al Qahira expanded these earlier settlements were encompassed, and have since become part of the city of Cairo as it expanded and spread; they are now collectively known as \"Old Cairo\".\n\nWhile the Fustat fire successfully protected the city of Cairo, a continuing power struggle between Shawar, King Amalric I of Jerusalem, and the Zengid general Shirkuh led to the downfall of the Fatimid establishment.\n\nIn 1169, Saladin was appointed as the new vizier of Egypt by the Fatimids and two years later he seized power from the family of the last Fatimid caliph, al-'Āḍid. As the first Sultan of Egypt, Saladin established the Ayyubid dynasty, based in Cairo, and aligned Egypt with the Abbasids, who were based in Baghdad. During his reign, Saladin constructed the Cairo Citadel, which served as the seat of the Egyptian government until the mid-19th century.\nIn 1250, slave soldiers, known as the Mamluks, seized control of Egypt and like many of their predecessors established Cairo as the capital of their new dynasty. Continuing a practice started by the Ayyubids, much of the land occupied by former Fatimid palaces was sold and replaced by newer buildings. Construction projects initiated by the Mamluks pushed the city outward while also bringing new infrastructure to the centre of the city. Meanwhile, Cairo flourished as a centre of Islamic scholarship and a crossroads on the spice trade route among the civilisations in Afro-Eurasia. By 1340, Cairo had a population of close to half a million, making it the largest city west of China.\n\nThe historic traveler Ibn Battuta traveled thousands of miles during the course of his trek. One city he stopped in was Cairo, Egypt. One significant note Ibn Battuta made was that Cairo was the principal district of Egypt, meaning Cairo was Egypt's most important and most influential city (Ibn Battuta, 2009). Ibn Battuta also acknowledges the importance of the Nile river to all of Egypt, including Cairo, as he often traveled via boat to arrive at Cairo and to leave to continue his journey. The Nile was not just a means for transportation, it was the source of a plethora of other tangibles as well. The Nile's most influential attribute was its ability to sustain rich soil for agriculture. Part of the Agricultural Revolution thrived in Egypt, predominantly off the back of the Nile. The Nile also served as a source of food and a pathway for trade. Without it, the Egypt we know today wouldn't have been the same. One of Ibn Battuta's most detailed accounts in Cairo involves a plague that was devastating the city. Today, this plague is known as the Bubonic Plague, or the Black Death. It is believed to have arrived in Egypt in 1347, and as Ibn Battuta recalls, the Bubonic plague was responsible for the deaths of between 1 and 20,000 people a day in Cairo (Berkeley ORIAS, 2018) (Ibn Battuta, 2009). The plague originated in Asia and spread via flees on rodents, such as rats (Berkeley ORIAS, 2018). The plague would end up spreading to all of Eurasia and wiped out any civilizations that were in its path. It is estimated that somewhere between 75 and 200 million people total died from the plague.\n\nAlthough Cairo avoided Europe's stagnation during the Late Middle Ages, it could not escape the Black Death, which struck the city more than fifty times between 1348 and 1517. During its initial, and most deadly waves, approximately 200,000 people were killed by the plague, and, by the 15th century, Cairo's population had been reduced to between 150,000 and 300,000. The city's status was further diminished after Vasco da Gama discovered a sea route around the Cape of Good Hope between 1497 and 1499, thereby allowing spice traders to avoid Cairo.\nCairo's political influence diminished significantly after the Ottomans supplanted Mamluk power over Egypt in 1517. Ruling from Constantinople, Sultan Selim I relegated Egypt to a province, with Cairo as its capital. For this reason, the history of Cairo during Ottoman times is often described as inconsequential, especially in comparison to other time periods. However, during the 16th and 17th centuries, Cairo remained an important economic and cultural centre. Although no longer on the spice route, the city facilitated the transportation of Yemeni coffee and Indian textiles, primarily to Anatolia, North Africa, and the Balkans. Cairene merchants were instrumental in bringing goods to the barren Hejaz, especially during the annual hajj to Mecca. It was during this same period that al-Azhar University reached the predominance among Islamic schools that it continues to hold today; pilgrims on their way to hajj often attested to the superiority of the institution, which had become associated with Egypt's body of Islamic scholars. By the 16th century, Cairo also had high-rise apartment buildings where the two lower floors were for commercial and storage purposes and the multiple stories above them were rented out to tenants.\n\nUnder the Ottomans, Cairo expanded south and west from its nucleus around the Citadel. The city was the second-largest in the empire, behind Constantinople, and, although migration was not the primary source of Cairo's growth, twenty percent of its population at the end of the 18th century consisted of religious minorities and foreigners from around the Mediterranean. Still, when Napoleon arrived in Cairo in 1798, the city's population was less than 300,000, forty percent lower than it was at the height of Mamluk—and Cairene—influence in the mid-14th century.\n\nThe French occupation was short-lived as British and Ottoman forces, including a sizeable Albanian contingent, recaptured the country in 1801. Cairo itself was besieged by a British and Ottoman force culminating with the French surrender on 22 June 1801. The British vacated Egypt two years later, leaving the Ottomans, the Albanians, and the long-weakened Mamluks jostling for control of the country. Continued civil war allowed an Albanian named Muhammad Ali Pasha to ascend to the role of commander and eventually, with the approval of the religious establishment, viceroy of Egypt in 1805.\n\nUntil his death in 1848, Muhammad Ali Pasha instituted a number of social and economic reforms that earned him the title of founder of modern Egypt. However, while Muhammad Ali initiated the construction of public buildings in the city, those reforms had minimal effect on Cairo's landscape. Bigger changes came to Cairo under Isma'il Pasha (r. 1863–1879), who continued the modernisation processes started by his grandfather. Drawing inspiration from Paris, Isma'il envisioned a city of maidans and wide avenues; due to financial constraints, only some of them, in the area now composing Downtown Cairo, came to fruition. Isma'il also sought to modernize the city, which was merging with neighboring settlements, by establishing a public works ministry, bringing gas and lighting to the city, and opening a theater and opera house.\n\nThe immense debt resulting from Isma'il's projects provided a pretext for increasing European control, which culminated with the British invasion in 1882. The city's economic centre quickly moved west toward the Nile, away from the historic Islamic Cairo section and toward the contemporary, European-style areas built by Isma'il. Europeans accounted for five percent of Cairo's population at the end of the 19th century, by which point they held most top governmental positions.\n\nThe British occupation was intended to be temporary, but it lasted well into the 20th century. Nationalists staged large-scale demonstrations in Cairo in 1919, five years after Egypt had been declared a British protectorate. Nevertheless, while this led to Egypt's independence in 1922, British troops remained in the country until 1956. During this time, urban Cairo, spurred by new bridges and transport links, continued to expand to include the upscale neighbourhoods of Garden City, Zamalek, and Heliopolis. Between 1882 and 1937, the population of Cairo more than tripled—from 347,000 to 1.3 million—and its area increased from .\n\nThe city was devastated during the 1952 riots known as the Cairo Fire or Black Saturday, which saw the destruction of nearly 700 shops, movie theatres, casinos and hotels in Downtown Cairo. The British departed Cairo following the Egyptian Revolution of 1952, but the city's rapid growth showed no signs of abating. Seeking to accommodate the increasing population, President Gamal Abdel Nasser redeveloped Maidan Tahrir and the Nile Corniche, and improved the city's network of bridges and highways. Meanwhile, additional controls of the Nile fostered development within Gezira Island and along the city's waterfront. The metropolis began to encroach on the fertile Nile Delta, prompting the government to build desert satellite towns and devise incentives for city-dwellers to move to them.\n\nCairo's population has doubled since the 1960s, reaching close to seven million (with an additional ten million in its urban area). Concurrently, Cairo has established itself as a political and economic hub for North Africa and the Arab world, with many multinational businesses and organisations, including the Arab League, operating out of the city.\n\nIn 1992, Cairo was hit by an earthquake causing 545 deaths, 6,512 injuries and 50,000 people homeless.\n\nToday, Cairo serves as the national capital of Egypt, so it is fair to say it still holds major importance. Many things have changed since Ibn Battuta trekked through the city during his travels. Today, Cairo has taken a major step forward in urbanization as most Cairenes now live in apartment buildings. Because of the influx of people in the city, lone standing houses are rare to find, and apartment buildings accommodate for the limited space and abundance of people. In fact, lone standing houses are symbolic of the wealthy. Formal education has also become very important to those in the city of Cairo. Just as in the United States, there are twelve years of formal education. Cairenes also take an apprehension test similar to the SAT to help them further their education and become accepted to a higher institution. However, most children do not finish school and opt to pick up a trade to enter the work force. The civil rights movement for women in Cairo has been a long and troubling battle for many years now. Women face constant discrimination, harassment, and abuse throughout Cairo. The situation is so bad in Cairo that it has even been named the most dangerous megacity for women in the world (BBC News, 2017). Cairo has also been influenced by modern western civilization. As one travels through modern Cairo, it is not unusual to come across McDonald's, Arby's, Pizza Hut, Subway, and Kentucky Fried Chicken. There are even large scale western restaurants in Cairo, such as Chili's and T.G.I. Friday's. Of course, the majority of restaurants serve Egyptian and Middle Eastern dishes, but the fact remains that certain aspects of western civilization have crossed the Atlantic and reached the city of Cairo. Sadly, Egypt is one of the poorer countries in the Middle East, with almost half the population living on $2 or less a day (Hartman, 2011). However, from the income the country does make, most of it does come from Cairo, as the majority of the countries manufacturing headquarters are located there. Today's Cairo has clearly evolved since Ibn Battuta made his way through the ancient city. Cairo has made advances in some aspects of daily life, and taken steps backwards in others. However, with that being said, Cairo is still one of the most influential cities in all of Egypt.\n\nCairo's Tahrir Square was the focal point of the 2011 Egyptian Revolution against former president Hosni Mubarak. Over 2 million protesters were at Cairo's Tahrir square. More than 50,000 protesters first occupied the square on 25 January, during which the area's wireless services were reported to be impaired. In the following days Tahrir Square continued to be the primary destination for protests in Cairo as it took place following a popular uprising that began on Tuesday, 25 January 2011 and continued until JUne 2013. The uprising was mainly a campaign of non-violent civil resistance, which featured a series of demonstrations, marches, acts of civil disobedience, and labour strikes. Millions of protesters from a variety of socio-economic and religious backgrounds demanded the overthrow of the regime of Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak. Despite being predominantly peaceful in nature, the revolution was not without violent clashes between security forces and protesters, with at least 846 people killed and 6,000 injured. The uprising took place in Cairo, Alexandria, and in other cities in Egypt, following the Tunisian revolution that resulted in the overthrow of the long-time Tunisian president Zine El Abidine Ben Ali. On 11 February, following weeks of determined popular protest and pressure, Hosni Mubarak resigned from office.\n\nUnder the rule of President el-Sisi, in March 2015 plans were announced for another yet-unnamed planned city to be built further east of the existing satellite city of New Cairo, intended to serve as the new capital of Egypt.\n\nCairo is located in northern Egypt, known as Lower Egypt, south of the Mediterranean Sea and west of the Gulf of Suez and Suez Canal. The city lies along the Nile River, immediately south of the point where the river leaves its desert-bound valley and branches into the low-lying Nile Delta region. Although the Cairo metropolis extends away from the Nile in all directions, the city of Cairo resides only on the east bank of the river and two islands within it on a total area of .\n\nUntil the mid-19th century, when the river was tamed by dams, levees, and other controls, the Nile in the vicinity of Cairo was highly susceptible to changes in course and surface level. Over the years, the Nile gradually shifted westward, providing the site between the eastern edge of the river and the Mokattam highlands on which the city now stands. The land on which Cairo was established in 969 (present-day Islamic Cairo) was located underwater just over three hundred years earlier, when Fustat was first built.\n\nLow periods of the Nile during the 11th century continued to add to the landscape of Cairo; a new island, known as \"Geziret al-Fil\", first appeared in 1174, but eventually became connected to the mainland. Today, the site of \"Geziret al-Fil\" is occupied by the Shubra district. The low periods created another island at the turn of the 14th century that now composes Zamalek and Gezira. Land reclamation efforts by the Mamluks and Ottomans further contributed to expansion on the east bank of the river.\n\nBecause of the Nile's movement, the newer parts of the city—Garden City, Downtown Cairo, and Zamalek—are located closest to the riverbank. The areas, which are home to most of Cairo's embassies, are surrounded on the north, east, and south by the older parts of the city. Old Cairo, located south of the centre, holds the remnants of Fustat and the heart of Egypt's Coptic Christian community, Coptic Cairo. The Boulaq district, which lies in the northern part of the city, was born out of a major 16th-century port and is now a major industrial centre. The Citadel is located east of the city centre around Islamic Cairo, which dates back to the Fatimid era and the foundation of Cairo. While western Cairo is dominated by wide boulevards, open spaces, and modern architecture of European influence, the eastern half, having grown haphazardly over the centuries, is dominated by small lanes, crowded tenements, and Islamic architecture.\n\nNorthern and extreme eastern parts of Cairo, which include satellite towns, are among the most recent additions to the city, as they developed in the late-20th and early-21st centuries to accommodate the city's rapid growth. The western bank of the Nile is commonly included within the urban area of Cairo, but it composes the city of Giza and the Giza Governorate. Giza has also undergone significant expansion over recent years, and today the city, although still a suburb of Cairo, has a population of 2.7 million. The Cairo Governorate was just north of the Helwan Governorate from 2008 when some Cairo's southern districts, including Maadi and New Cairo, were split off and annexed into the new governorate, to 2011 when the Helwan Governorate was reincorporated into the Cairo Governorate.\nIn Cairo, and along the Nile River Valley, the climate is a hot desert climate (\"BWh\" according to the Köppen climate classification system). Wind storms can be frequent, bringing Saharan dust into the city, from March to May (see Khamasin) and the air often becomes uncomfortably dry. High temperatures in winter range from , while night-time lows drop to below , often to . In summer, the highs rarely surpass , and lows drop to about . Rainfall is sparse and only happens in the colder months, but sudden showers do cause harsh flooding. The summer months have high humidity due to its coastal location. Snowfall is extremely rare; a small amount of graupel, widely believed to be snow, fell on Cairo's easternmost suburbs on 13 December 2013, the first time Cairo's area received this kind of precipitation in many decades. Dewpoints in the hottest months range from in June to in August.\n\nThe Greater Cairo is the largest metropolitan area in Africa. It consists of Cairo Governorate, parts of Giza Governorate, and parts of Qalyubia Governorate.\n\n6th of October City, west of Cairo, and New Cairo, east of Cairo, are major urban developments which have been built to accommodate additional growth and development of the Cairo area. New development includes several high-end residential developments.\n\nIn March 2015, plans were announced for a yet-unnamed planned city to be built east of Cairo, in an undeveloped area of the Cairo Governorate, which would serve as the administrative and financial capital of Egypt.\n\nCairo, as well as neighbouring Giza, has been established as Egypt's main centre for medical treatment, and despite some exceptions, has the most advanced level of medical care in the country. Cairo's hospitals include the JCI-accredited As-Salaam International Hospital—Corniche El Nile, Maadi (Egypt's largest private hospital with 350 beds), Ain Shams University Hospital, Dar Al Fouad, Nile Badrawi Hospital, 57357 Hospital, as well as Qasr El Eyni Hospital.\n\nGreater Cairo has long been the hub of education and educational services for Egypt and the region.\nToday, Greater Cairo is the centre for many government offices governing the Egyptian educational system, has the largest number of educational schools, and higher learning institutes among other cities and governorates of Egypt.\n\nSome of the International Schools found in Cairo:\n\nUniversities in Greater Cairo:\n\nCairo has an extensive road network, rail system, subway system and maritime services. Road transport is facilitated by personal vehicles, taxi cabs, privately owned public buses and Cairo microbuses. Cairo, specifically Ramses Square, is the centre of almost the entire Egyptian transportation network.\n\nThe subway system, officially called \"Metro (مترو)\", is a fast and efficient way of getting around Cairo. Metro network covers Helwan and other suburbs. It can get very crowded during rush hour. Two train cars (the fourth and fifth ones) are reserved for women only, although women may ride in any car they want.\n\nTrams in Greater Cairo (Heliopolis and Nasr City) exists now, while Cairo trolleybus was closed.\n\nAn extensive road network connects Cairo with other Egyptian cities and villages. There is a new Ring Road that surrounds the outskirts of the city, with exits that reach outer Cairo districts. There are flyovers and bridges, such as the Sixth of October bridge that, when the traffic is not heavy, allow fast means of transportation from one side of the city to the other.\n\nCairo traffic is known to be overwhelming and overcrowded. Traffic moves at a relatively fluid pace. Drivers tend to be aggressive, but are more courteous at junctions, taking turns going, with police aiding in traffic control of some congested areas.\n\n\nFootball is the most popular sport in Egypt, and Cairo has a number of sporting teams that compete in national and regional leagues. The best known teams are Al-Ahly, El Zamalek and Al-Ismaily. Al-Ahly and El Zamalek annual football tournament is perhaps the most watched sports event in Egypt as well as the African-Arab region. Both teams are known as the \"rivals\" of Egyptian football, and are the first and the second champions in Africa and the Arab world. They play their home games at Cairo International Stadium or Naser Stadium, which is Egypt's 2nd largest stadium, Cairo's largest one and one of the largest stadiums in the world.\n\nThe Cairo International Stadium was built in 1960 and its multi-purpose sports complex that houses the main football stadium, an indoor stadium, several satellite fields that held several regional, continental and global games, including the African Games, U17 Football World Championship and was one of the stadiums scheduled that hosted the 2006 Africa Cup of Nations which was played in January 2006. Egypt later won the competition and went on to win the next edition In Ghana (2008) making the Egyptian and Ghanaian national teams the only teams to win the African Nations Cup Back to back which resulted in Egypt winning the title for a record number of six times in the history of African Continental Competition. This was followed by a third consecutive win in Angola 2010, making Egypt the only country with a record 3-consecutive and 7-total Continental Football Competition winner. This achievement had also placed the Egyptian football team as the #9 best team in the world's FIFA rankings.\n\nCairo failed at the applicant stage when bidding for the 2008 Summer Olympic Games, which was hosted in Beijing, China. However, Cairo did host the 2007 Pan Arab Games.\n\nThere are several other sports teams in the city that participate in several sports including el Gezira Sporting Club, el Shams Club, el Seid Club, Heliopolis Club and several smaller clubs, but the biggest clubs in Egypt (not in area but in sports) are Al Ahly and Al Zamalek. They have the two biggest football teams in Egypt. There are new sports clubs in the area of New Cairo (one hour far from Cairo's down town), these are Al Zohour sporting club, Wadi Degla sporting club and Platinum Club.\n\nMost of the sports federations of the country are also located in the city suburbs, including the Egyptian Football Association. The headquarters of the Confederation of African Football (CAF) was previously located in Cairo, before relocating to its new headquarters in 6 October City, a small city away from Cairo's crowded districts.\n\nIn October 2008, the Egyptian Rugby Federation was officially formed and granted membership into the International Rugby Board.\n\nEgypt is internationally known for the excellence of its squash players who excel in both professional and junior divisions. Egypt currently has seven players in the top ten of the PSA men's world rankings, and three in the women's top ten. Mohamed El Shorbagy held the world number one position for more than a year before being overtaken by compatriot Karim Abdel Gawad, who is currently number two behind Gregory Gaultier of France. Ramy Ashour and Amr Shabana are regarded as two of the most talented squash players in history. Shabana won the World Open title four times and Ashour twice, although his recent form has been hampered by injury. Egypt's Nour El Sherbini has won the Women's World Championship twice and has been women's world number one for 16 consecutive months. On 30 April 2016, she became the youngest woman to win the Women's World Championship which was held in Malaysia. On April 2017 she retained her title by winning the Women's World Championship which was held in the Egyptian resort of El Gouna.\n\nPresident Mubarak inaugurated the new Cairo Opera House of the Egyptian National Cultural Centres on 10 October 1988, 17 years after the Royal Opera House had been destroyed by fire. The National Cultural Centre was built with the help of JICA, the Japan International Co-operation Agency and stands as a prominent feature for the Japanese-Egyptian co-operation and the friendship between the two nations.\n\nThe Khedivial Opera House, or Royal Opera House, was the original opera house in Cairo. It was dedicated on 1 November 1869 and burned down on 28 October 1971. After the original opera house was destroyed, Cairo was without an opera house for nearly two decades until the opening of the new Cairo Opera House in 1988.\n\nCairo held its first international film festival 16 August 1976, when the first Cairo International Film Festival was launched by the Egyptian Association of Film Writers and Critics, headed by Kamal El-Mallakh. The Association ran the festival for seven years until 1983.\n\nThis achievement lead to the President of the Festival again contacting the FIAPF with the request that a competition should be included at the 1991 Festival. The request was granted.\n\nIn 1998, the Festival took place under the presidency of one of Egypt's leading actors, Hussein Fahmy, who was appointed by the Minister of Culture, Farouk Hosni, after the death of Saad El-Din Wahba. Four years later, the journalist and writer Cherif El-Shoubashy became president.\n\nThe Cairo Geniza is an accumulation of almost 200,000 Jewish manuscripts that were found in the genizah of the Ben Ezra synagogue (built 882) of Fustat, Egypt (now Old Cairo), the Basatin cemetery east of Old Cairo, and a number of old documents that were bought in Cairo in the later 19th century. These documents were written from about 870 to 1880 AD and have been archived in various American and European libraries. The Taylor-Schechter collection in the University of Cambridge runs to 140,000 manuscripts, a further 40,000 manuscripts are at the Jewish Theological Seminary of America.\n\nMost residents are Sunni Muslim, while the rest of the population is mostly Christian. Al-Azhar University, based in Cairo, is considered the leading authority of Sunni Islam worldwide. Most Christians are Coptic Orthodox. Until his death in March 2012, Pope Shenouda III of Alexandria was the leader of the Coptic Orthodox Church, followed by Pope Tawadros II who became Pope on 18 November 2012, whose residence is in Cairo. Cairo has several synagogues, but few Jews remain after Israel was established and the subsequent exodus, largely due to state sponsored discrimination. Tension between members of different religions has increased recently.\n\nCairo accounts for 11% of Egypt's population and 22% of its economy (PPP). The majority of the nation's commerce is generated there, or passes through the city. The great majority of publishing houses and media outlets and nearly all film studios are there, as are half of the nation's hospital beds and universities. This has fueled rapid construction in the city—one building in five is less than 15 years old.\n\nThis growth until recently surged well ahead of city services. Homes, roads, electricity, telephone and sewer services were all in short supply. Analysts trying to grasp the magnitude of the change coined terms like \"hyper-urbanization\".\n\n\nTahrir Square was founded during the mid 19th century with the establishment of modern downtown Cairo. It was first named Ismailia Square, after the 19th-century ruler Khedive Ismail, who commissioned the new downtown district's 'Paris on the Nile' design. After the Egyptian Revolution of 1919 the square became widely known as Tahrir (Liberation) Square, though it was not officially renamed as such until after the 1952 Revolution which eliminated the monarchy. Several notable buildings surround the square including, the American University in Cairo's downtown campus, the Mogamma governmental administrative Building, the headquarters of the Arab League, the Nile Ritz Carlton Hotel, and the Egyptian Museum. Being at the heart of Cairo, the square witnessed several major protests over the years. However, the most notable event in the square was being the focal point of the 2011 Egyptian Revolution against former president Hosni Mubarak.\n\nThe Museum of Egyptian Antiquities, known commonly as the Egyptian Museum, is home to the most extensive collection of ancient Egyptian antiquities in the world. It has 136,000 items on display, with many more hundreds of thousands in its basement storerooms. Among its most famous collections on display are the finds from the tomb of Tutankhamun.\n\nThe Cairo Tower is a free-standing tower with a revolving restaurant at the top. It provides a bird's eye view of Cairo to the restaurant patrons. It stands in the Zamalek district on Gezira Island in the Nile River, in the city centre. At , it is higher than the Great Pyramid of Giza, which stands some to the southwest.\n\nThis area of Cairo is so-named as it contains the remains of the ancient Roman fortress of Babylon and also overlaps the original site of Fustat, the first Arab settlement in Egypt (7th century AD) and the predecessor of later Cairo. The area includes the Coptic Cairo, which holds a high concentration of old Christian churches such as the Hanging Church, the Greek Orthodox Church of St. George, and other Christian or Coptic buildings, most of which are located over the site of the ancient Roman fortress. It is also the location of the Coptic Museum, which showcases the history of Coptic art from Greco-Roman to Islamic times, and of the Ben Ezra Synagogue, the oldest and best-known synagogue in Cairo, where the important collection of Geniza documents were discovered in the 19th century. To the north of this Coptic enclave is the Amr ibn al-'As Mosque, the first mosque in Egypt and the most important religious center of what was formerly Fustat, founded in 642 AD right after the Arab conquest but rebuilt many times since.\n\nCairo holds one of the greatest concentrations of historical monuments of Islamic architecture in the world. The areas around the old walled city and around the Citadel are characterized by hundreds of mosques, tombs, madrasas, mansions, caravanserais, and fortifications dating from the Islamic era and are often referred to as \"Islamic Cairo\", especially in English travel literature. It is also the location of several important religious shrines such as the al-Hussein Mosque (whose shrine is believed to hold the head of Husayn ibn Ali), the Mausoleum of Imam al-Shafi'i (founder of the Shafi'i madhhab, one of the primary schools of thought in Sunni Islamic jurisprudence), the Tomb of Sayyida Ruqayya, the Mosque of Sayyida Nafisa, and others.\n\nThe first mosque in Egypt was the Mosque of Amr ibn al-As in what was formerly Fustat, the first Arab-Muslim settlement in the area. However, the Mosque of Ibn Tulun is the oldest mosque that still retains its original form and is a rare example of Abbasid architecture from the classical period of Islamic civilization. It was built in 876–879 AD in a style inspired by the Abbasid capital of Samarra in Iraq. It is one of the largest mosques in Cairo and is often cited as one of the most beautiful. Another Abbasid construction, the Nilometer on Rhoda Island, is the oldest original structure in Cairo, built in 862 AD. It was designed to measure the level of the Nile, which was important for agricultural and administrative purposes.\n\nThe settlement that was formally named Cairo (Arabic: \"al-Qahira\") was founded to the northeast of Fustat in 959 AD by the victorious Fatimid army. The Fatimids built it as a separate palatial city which contained their palaces and institutions of government. It was enclosed by a circuit of walls, which were rebuilt in stone in the late 11th century AD by the vizir Badr al-Gamali, parts of which survive today at Bab Zuwayla in the south and Bab al-Futuh and Bab al-Nasr in the north.\n\nOne of the most important and lasting institutions founded in the Fatimid period was the Mosque of al-Azhar, founded in 970 AD, which competes with the Qarawiyyin in Fes for the title of oldest university in the world. Today, al-Azhar University is the foremost center of Islamic learning in the world and one of Egypt's largest universities with campuses across the country. The mosque itself retains significant Fatimid elements but has been added to and expanded in subsequent centuries, notably by the Mamluk sultans Qaitbay and al-Ghuri and by Abd al-Rahman Katkhuda in the 18th century.\n\nOther extant monuments from the Fatimid era include the large Mosque of al-Hakim, the al-Aqmar mosque, Juyushi Mosque, Lulua Mosque, and the Mosque of Salih Tala'i.\n\nThe most prominent architectural heritage of medieval Cairo, however, dates from the Mamluk period, from 1250 to 1517 AD. The Mamluk sultans and elites were eager patrons of religious and scholarly life, commonly building religious or funerary complexes whose functions could include a mosque, madrasa, khanqah (for Sufis), a sabil (water dispensary), and a mausoleum for themselves and their families.\nAmong the best-known examples of Mamluk monuments in Cairo are the huge Mosque-Madrasa of Sultan Hasan, the Mosque of Amir al-Maridani, the Mosque of Sultan al-Mu'ayyad (whose twin minarets were built above the gate of Bab Zuwayla), the Sultan Al-Ghuri complex, the funerary complex of Sultan Qaytbay in the Northern Cemetery, and the trio of monuments in the Bayn al-Qasrayn area comprising the complex of Sultan al-Mansur Qalawun, the Madrasa of al-Nasir Muhammad, and the Madrasa of Sultan Barquq. It is said that a lot of the columns found in mosques were taken from the Coptic churches because of their beautiful artistic carvings and placed in mosques.\n\nThe Mamluks, and the later Ottomans, also built wikalas or caravanserais to house merchants and goods due to the important role of trade and commerce in Cairo's economy. The most famous example still intact today is the Wikala al-Ghuri, which nowadays also hosts regular performances by the Al-Tannoura Egyptian Heritage Dance Troupe. The famous Khan al-Khalili (see below) is a commercial hub which also integrated caravanserais (also known as khans).\n\nThe Citadel is a fortified enclosure begun by Salah al-Din in 1176 AD on an outcrop of the Muqattam Hills as part of a large defensive system to protect both Cairo to the north and Fustat to the southwest. It was the center of Egyptian government and residence of its rulers until 1874, when Khedive Isma'il moved to 'Abdin Palace. It is still occupied by the military today, but is now open as a tourist attraction comprising, notably, the National Military Museum, the 14th century Mosque of al-Nasir Muhammad, and the 19th century Mosque of Muhammad Ali which commands a dominant position on Cairo's skyline.\n\nKhan el-Khalili is an ancient bazaar, or marketplace adjacent to the Al-Hussein Mosque. It dates back to 1385, when Amir Jarkas el-Khalili built a large caravanserai, or khan. (A caravanserai is a hotel for traders, and usually the focal point for any surrounding area.) This original carvanserai building was demolished by Sultan al-Ghuri, who rebuilt it as a new commercial complex in the early 16th century, forming the basis for the network of souqs existing today. Many medieval elements remain today, including the ornate Mamluk-style gateways. Today, the Khan el-Khalili is a major tourist attraction and popular stop for tour groups.\n\nCairo is an expanding city, which has led to many environmental problems. The air pollution in Cairo is a matter of serious concern. Greater Cairo's volatile aromatic hydrocarbon levels are higher than many other similar cities. Air quality measurements in Cairo have also been recording dangerous levels of lead, carbon dioxide, sulphur dioxide, and suspended particulate matter concentrations due to decades of unregulated vehicle emissions, urban industrial operations, and chaff and trash burning. There are over 4,500,000 cars on the streets of Cairo, 60% of which are over 10 years old, and therefore lack modern emission cutting features like catalytic converters. Cairo has a very poor dispersion factor because of lack of rain and its layout of tall buildings and narrow streets, which create a bowl effect.\nIn recent years, a mysterious black cloud (as Egyptians refer to it) appeared over Cairo every autumn and causes serious respiratory diseases and eye irritations for the city's citizens. Tourists who are not familiar with such high levels of pollution must take extra care.\n\nCairo also has many unregistered lead and copper smelters which heavily pollute the city. The results of this has been a permanent haze over the city with particulate matter in the air reaching over three times normal levels. It is estimated that 10,000 to 25,000 people a year in Cairo die due to air pollution-related diseases. Lead has been shown to cause harm to the central nervous system and neurotoxicity particularly in children. In 1995, the first environmental acts were introduced and the situation has seen some improvement with 36 air monitoring stations and emissions tests on cars. Twenty thousand buses have also been commissioned to the city to improve congestion levels, which are very high.\n\nThe city also suffers from a high level of land pollution. Cairo produces 10,000 tons of waste material each day, 4,000 tons of which is not collected or managed. This once again is a huge health hazard and the Egyptian Government is looking for ways to combat this. The Cairo Cleaning and Beautification Agency was founded to collect and recycle the waste; however, they also work with the Zabbaleen (or Zabaleen), a community that has been collecting and recycling Cairo's waste since the turn of the 20th century and live in an area known locally as Manshiyat naser. Both are working together to pick up as much waste as possible within the city limits, though it remains a pressing problem.\n\nThe city also suffers from water pollution as the sewer system tends to fail and overflow. On occasion, sewage has escaped onto the streets to create a health hazard. This problem is hoped to be solved by a new sewer system funded by the European Union, which could cope with the demand of the city. The dangerously high levels of mercury in the city's water system has global health officials concerned over related health risks.\n\nAs previously mentioned, the Arab League headquarters is located in Cairo.\n\nCairo has sister city agreements with eight cities in six different countries:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5319330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5319330", "title": "Casa de las Américas", "text": "Casa de las Américas\n\nCasa de las Américas is an organization that was founded by the Cuban Government in April 1959, four months after the Cuban Revolution, for the purpose of developing and extending the socio-cultural relations with the countries of Latin America, the Caribbean and the rest of the world. Originally a publishing house and information center, it has developed into the best-known and most prestigious cultural institution in Cuba.\n\nThe organization was founded by Haydée Santamaría, a member of the 26th of July Movement and one of the few women directly involved in the revolutionary brigades. Under her leadership, it became over the next two decades a physical and cultural refuge for artists and writers who had been persecuted in their homelands for their advocacy of social justice and opposition to military dictatorship. \n\nThe organization awards the Casa de las Américas Prize, one of the oldest and most prestigious prizes in Latin American literature. It also researches, supports, and publishes the work of writers, sculptors, musicians, and other artists and students of literature and the arts. Its official organ is the journal \"Casa de las Américas\", published since 1961. The journal began as a literary magazine but has since become a general intellectual review with an equal focus on history and international politics. It also publishes \"Boletín\", a journal specializing in Latin American music, \"Criterios\", devoted to theory and criticism, and \"Analaes de Caribe\", a scholarly journal for Caribbean specialists in all disciplines.\n\nFollowing Santamaría's death in 1980, Casa de las Américas was led by the painter Mariano Rodriguez (1912–1990). Its current President (since 1986) is poet and essayist Roberto Fernández Retamar.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49727085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49727085", "title": "Centenary of Western Australian Women's Suffrage Memorial", "text": "Centenary of Western Australian Women's Suffrage Memorial\n\nThe Centenary of Western Australia Women's Suffrage Memorial is located in the Western Australia Botanic Garden, within Kings Park in Perth, Western Australia. It commemorates the hundredth anniversary of women achieving the right to vote equally with men in Western Australian elections.\n\nThe memorial was commissioned during plans for commemorating the centenary of women's suffrage in Western Australia, and was designed by artist Tony Jones. It was constructed by students from the Western Australia School of Art and Design and installed in 1999.\n\nThe memorial artwork, known as the Bookleaf Memorial, is of an open book with pages that have apparently been blown away by the wind. The pages of the book rest on the ground in the shape of leaves. \n\n"}
{"id": "40531242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40531242", "title": "Chehalis language", "text": "Chehalis language\n\nThe Chehalis language is a collective expression regarding two languages, Upper Chehalis language and Lower Chehalis language. Both are members of the Tsamosan (Olympic) branch within the Coast Salish subfamily of the Salishan language family.\n\nAlternatively \"Chehalis\" may refer to one of the two different languages:\n\nChehalis is now extinct. However, it contributed to Chinook Jargon. For more information, see Salishan languages.\n"}
{"id": "4963532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4963532", "title": "Colonia (United States)", "text": "Colonia (United States)\n\nIn the United States, colonias are low-income unincorporated housing-areas located along the Mexico–United States border region that began to emerge with the advent of informal housing. Colonias consist of peri-urban subdivisions of substandard housing lacking in basic services such as potable water, electricity, paved roads, proper drainage, and waste management. Often situated in geographically inferior locations, such as former agricultural floodplains, colonias suffer from associated issues like flooding.. Furthermore, urbanization practices have amplified the issues, such as when developers strip topsoil from the ground in order to subdivide land, the resulting plains become breeding grounds for mosquitoes and disease. Traditional homeownership financing methods are rare amongst colonias residents, and therefore these areas consist of ramshackle housing units built incrementally with found material on expanses of undeveloped land. Colonias have a predominant Latino population where 85 percent of those Latinos under the age of 18 are United States citizens. The U.S. has viewed border communities as a place of lawlessness, poverty, backwardness, and ethnic difference. \n\nDespite the economic development, liberalization and intensification of trade, and strategic geographic location, the southern U.S. border is one of the poorest regions in the nation. Most cases had shown that these communities formed when unscrupulous landowners illegally sold and subdivided rural lands, often to buyers who did not understand the terms under which this land was being sold. The contract for deed through which plots were offered by land developers often made false promises that utilities would be installed.\n\nThe majority of these communities have no water infrastructures and lack wastewater or sewage services. Where sewer systems do exist there are no treatment plants in the area, and untreated wastewater is dumped into arroyos and creeks that flow into the Rio Grande or the Gulf of Mexico.\n\nMore than 2,000 colonias are identified within the U.S. The highest concentration is in Texas, with others in New Mexico, Arizona, and California. Evidence suggests that there are more than 1,800 designated colonias in Texas, around 138 in New Mexico, 77 in Arizona, and 32 in California. These settlements are part of an informal sector or informal economy that is not bound by the structures of government regulations within labor, tax, health and safety, land use, environmental, civil rights, and immigration laws.\n\nSection 916 of the National Affordable Housing Act (NAHA) defines \"colonias\" as any \"identifiable community\" determined by objective criteria that include the lack of potable water and adequate sewage systems, the lack of decent, safe, and sanitary housing, and which were in existence before the passage of the Cranston–Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act (1990). According to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), the term \"colonias\" has a specific meaning within the U.S., referring to a community within the rural Mexico–U.S. border region with marginal conditions related to housing and infrastructure. Other definitions and criteria for a colonia are used by the Environmental Protection Agency, the U.S. Department of Agriculture, and the Texas Code.\n\nThe Spanish word \"colonia\" means a 'colony' or 'community'. In Mexican Spanish, it is specifically a 'residential quarter [of a city]', and a \"colonia proletaria\" is a shantytown. In Spanglish, the English-Spanish mix, \"colonia\" began to be used to refer primarily to Mexican neighborhoods about thirty years ago. A 1977 study uses the term \"colonia\" to describe rural desert settlements with inadequate infrastructure and unsafe housing stock. Since these Hispanic neighborhoods were less affluent, the word also connoted poverty and substandard housing. In the 1990s, \"colonias\" became a common American English name for the slums that developed on both sides of the Mexico–United States border.\n\nThe history of the word \"colonias\" in the United States, and its interpretation through politics, suggests that places called colonias are not to be perceived as natural or prosperous communities. In many parts of Texas, Spanish-language terms are often used to frame and highlight a class difference.\nThe term \"colonia\" is an essential symbol for public policy in the United States, and this Spanish name is a critical component for constructing public and policy attention, underscoring the settlements' differences and labelling them as racialized and distinct places, which has a powerful way of constructing and reinforcing marginality.\n\nResearchers traced the first colonias in Texas to the 1950s and early 1960s.\nThese appeared as an informal housing solution for low-income predominantly Hispanic wage-earners through a model referred to by scholars as the \"incremental approach\".\nDue to the rise of the maquiladora industry—foreign-owned factories in Mexico creating goods for export—the border population quickly grew and in 1965 created a housing shortage for these workers.\nThe overlap of four variables attributed to the development of colonias: high demand from a population of low-income wage earners meeting a low supply of affordable housing, a supply of low-cost and fruitless land, the absence of regulations on the subdivision of that land, and a legal way for that land to be sold to individuals. Land developers began purchasing low-value land in peri-urban areas where strict enforcement of housing and environmental laws was either weak or nonexistent. \nDuring this period the sale of rural lands without basic housing policies was lawful. Colonias were hidden from view due to physical isolation and properties were divided into small lots, which would be bought by low-income families via contracts for deed. These deals, which sold unimproved lots, included undocumented and thus unenforceable promises to provide basic provisions such as water, sewage, and electricity.\nBecause these deals lacked a foreclosure period or buyer's protection, any property that was not paid in full could be repossessed and resold by the sellers, who retained title for the land and were allowed to keep all payments the buyer had made. As more dwellings appeared with minimal infrastructure, the value of the land decreased and ultimately became more affordable as a living option for low-income families on the border.\n\nColonia communities grew rapidly in the 1990s when the number of residents almost doubled from 1990 to 1996. This can be subject to the effects of globalization and the passage of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) in 1994, which industrialized the Mexico–United States border, created many jobs, and encouraged migration.\nPeople shifted from traditional agricultural labor to work in transportation, construction, and manufacturing. \nThis led to an increased informality of U.S. housing, with colonias forming and growing because of the border's strategic location and trade liberalizations.\nHowever, due to the lack of financial mobility, colonia residents face significant challenges escaping the colonia bubble. In June 1996, the Texas Department of Housing and Community Affairs successfully obtained a waiver from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to set new housing-standards for colonias. The resulting standards provided a basis for safe and sanitary housing to alleviate the existing health risks. These standards are necessary for economic development in colonias because unsafe infrastructures and lack of education and jobs inhibit their growth.\n\nAs of 2007, Texas had the largest concentration of colonia residents in the U.S., with approximately 400,000 living in over 2,000 colonias. New Mexico had the second largest, followed by Arizona and California. However, as remote location and stealthy development characterize many colonias, exact counts are difficult and figures can quickly change. Despite the high count of individuals living in these areas, the severity of the living standards in colonias has yet to become common knowledge for U.S. citizens. Scholars have found that little has been done to remedy the living standards of the colonians, as their situation has become normalized by the public and associated with the \"lawlessness\" of the Mexico–U.S. border region. Scholars have criticized the naming of these settlements as \"colonias\", stating that the use of the Spanish word not only creates difficulties within the public policy sector of government, but also fosters the notion that these settlements are alien and not a part of the U.S. However, those within the public that do recognize colonias and their living conditions view them as \"border slums\", while scholars have since the 1990s described them as a \"third world\" within the United States. While poor living standards do persist in these areas, a positive side does exist for colonias and is often disregarded by media and policymakers. For the border region's poor, colonias provide affordable housing and the opportunity to obtain the American Dream of owning a home. Some scholars have praised colonians for seeking the realization of this dream through self-help. Because of this, the informed public has begun urging policymakers to make decisions that will not eliminate colonias but instead both enhance the living conditions and promote the incremental approach as a housing strategy, stating that this informal housing option creates opportunity.\n\nDivergent state subdivision regulations have influenced the historical development of colonias, and how each state defines a colonia. Independent historical accounts should be considered by state.\n\nAround the 1950s, developers began creating subdivisions along the Mexico–U.S. border on agriculturally poor properties, divided land in small parcels, and provided few services; the development of the properties, intended for low-income buyers, was the beginning of the Texas colonias. By 1995, the state passed laws against developing subdivisions without services. From 1995 and 2011, the office of the Texas Attorney General had 87 judgments against developers who created properties without services. The office of the Texas Attorney General said that, by 2011, Texas had about 2,294 colonias and estimates that about 500,000 lived in the colonias. As of 2011 Hidalgo County has the largest number of colonias in Texas, though estimating their population is difficult due to isolation, shared addresses, rapid changes in development, and mistrust of government.\n\nIn New Mexico, about 150 colonias have qualified for colonia-funding sources such as HUD, U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), etc. In New Mexico, there are two types of colonias: small towns and subdivisions. Although many of New Mexico's colonias consist of rural small towns, they were considered colonias because of the absence of resources. Conflicts with acceptable water, sewers, and safe and clean housing that the colonias faced brought on the requirement of Section 916 of the National Affordable Housing Act of 1992.\n\nIn New Mexico, land was sold contract-for-deed; however, before 1990, New Mexicans were allowed to divide their property into four parcels without violating the law. Within a couple of years, landowners were then allowed to split their land into two parcels, but after some time, the subdivision law was amended to close this \"loophole utilized by colonia developers\".\n\nColonias can be found in each U.S. state on the Mexican border: Texas, New Mexico, Arizona, and California. Residents are mostly Hispanic and about 65% of the colonia population were born in the United States. Overall, colonias consist of low-income communities with families that cannot afford goods in a formal economy. In a random survey by the Texas Department of State Health Services, it was found that half of the families have incomes of less than $834 a month. About 70% of colonia residents have not graduated from high school and many lack English-language skills, which hampers their job mobility, suppresses wages, and the ability to seek assistance. The unemployment rate for families in colonias is 18%, compared to 11% in neighbouring cities.\n\nResidents of colonias pay, on average, 58% of their income on housing. In comparison, a two-bedroom apartment in Albuquerque, New Mexico costs $830, only 20% of the average income in the U.S. Colonia housing costs too much relative to the resident earnings and the living conditions are significantly worse.\n\nColonias may lack all of the essential physical infrastructures and public services: clean water, sanitary sewage, and adequate roads. Most colonia housing does not meet construction standards and building codes. Houses are often built little by little, starting as shabby tents of wood and cardboard. Only 54% of colonia residents in Texas have sewer service and about 50% drink water from a non-tap source. Because they do not qualify for financing, Colonia residents buy their land on a contract for deed, in which land ownership stays with the seller until the entire purchase is paid. This land eventually ends up to be worthless as the market for colonia housing is very low. Most houses cannot pass inspections to qualify for repairs and further improvements. The housing situation in Cameron County, Texas lacks certain infrastructure and requires $44 million to upgrade all of the homes. Financially, families living in colonias lack the assets to add improvements in order for sustainability.\n\nThese poor minority communities are also prime targets for hazardous waste facilities because of their inability to file lawsuits. Most such facilities in New Mexico are located within a radius of a colonia. These include landfills, power plants, and waste facilities which all have negative impacts on the communities' lifelong health. The legal options available to colonia residents to fight the placement of these facilities are slim. Many are unaware of the public benefits available to them, and applying for benefits can be a struggle when extensive documentation and many visits to state offices are required. Ultimately, immigrants in the border region face language barriers and fear of retaliation against family members without any form of identification.\n\nA 2008 pilot study of factors affecting health-related quality of life (HRQL) of Mexican-American adults living in colonias found that colonia residents fall below the U.S. average. By examining Mexican-Americans residing in Hidalgo County, Texas, investigators found that Mexican Americans living in colonias share similar mental health patterns compared to the U.S. average but their physical health was worse. Data collected through a household survey in 2002 and 2003 by the Integrated Health Outreach System Project (IHOS) was analyzed to describe the population in terms of sociodemographic status, HRQL, and other variables. In the responses to this survey, 81% considered that access to healthcare services was a problem; 62.5% mentioned housing; 76.5% perceived not having enough recreational and cultural activities; 86% perceived social issues; and 41.1% perceived physical environmental problems, specifically polluted air or water. In conclusion, the research provides significant data acknowledging health disparities colonia residents continuously face.\n\nIn June 2010 The Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights Under Law released a report that claims there is enough data in the historical record to demonstrate a direct correlation between abated health outcomes, health disparities, and premature morbidity and mortality with one's zip code. Researchers have determined that, for people of color or low income, this can predetermine their life expectancy.\n\nIn a 2009 study, a participatory model of one hundred Mexican-origin colonia residents showed that participants who met the criteria for alcohol dependence showed more symptoms of anxiety and post-traumatic stress than the national average. Investigators found that among Mexican-American immigrants, lifetime prevalence for any anxiety disorder in men was 9% and 18% for women. For Mexican Americans born in the United States, 20% of men and 27% of women met the criteria for anxiety disorders. Mexican Americans living in colonia have considerable health risks due to unsafe living conditions, low educational attainment, high unemployment, comparatively high rates of communicable illness, lack of access to health care, and poverty. Furthermore, the study found that people living in colonias had the highest rates of binge drinking and alcohol dependence correlated with anxiety, traumatic stress, and hopelessness.\n\nIn a 2005 study, researchers found that \"people with low socioeconomic status have dramatically higher disease risks and shorter life spans\" than wealthier people. Therefore, poor people have less access to health care and more incidents of harmful lifestyles associated with drinking, smoking, and obesity.\n\nIn nutritional research, investigators assessed the experiences of child food insecurity and seasonal instability within Mexican-origin mother-child dyads living in Mexico–U.S. border colonias. By focusing on food insecurity, which is known to cause health effects across a lifespan, investigators sought to understand the effects of school-based and summertime nutrition programs amongst women and their children, specifically within Texas-border colonias. An important attribute of this research was that the study depended on a multi-level analysis, which relied on repeated measurements. It also took into account the perceptions and experiences of children within the research.\n\nAccording to research, food insecurity among Hispanic and Mexican-origin U.S. households exceeds national estimates (Nalty, 2013). Furthermore, in 2011, 26.2% of Hispanic families in the United States were food insecure, and 17.4% households with child-food insecurity were Hispanic.\n\nIn consultation with local decision-makers, 2013 research of childhood obesity in Mexican-American low-income communities resulted in recommendations addressing related issues within communities like colonias. Four policy ideas came about:\n\nAccording to a 2009 study by R. Gottlieb, food issues \"are particularly pronounced in low-income communities where lack of access to fresh, affordable healthy food has direct health and nutritional consequences\". He explains that core land-use factors such as housing, transportation, and commercial space are issues of food justice and environmental justice, and that addressing these issues can help reduce health disparities among border residents.\n\nEducation in the border region is substandard on both sides. While completion and attainment rates are much higher in the U.S. than in Mexico, they are far below the U.S. average. The low levels of education along the border region are due to lack of proper infrastructure, low property-tax funding for schools, and pressing financial need which sees children contributing to family incomes. The primary problem with the education system in colonias is the lack of funding.\n\nIn Texas, the Texas Education Agency determines education directives while the majority of school funding comes from local property taxes. For the low-income colonias, these directives can present fiscal obstacles which stand in the way of the quality of education. Population growth among the colonias make it so the funding of education is controversial and socially divisive. There is also a problem in finding direct-service providers who will educate the children in the colonias. Schools districts have taken measures to attract teachers to the prospect of working in these areas, though finding qualified teachers has become an increasingly difficult task. \n\nRather than being illegal, colonias are considered \"extra-legal\", in that they circumnavigate the law rather than violating it. In response to these systems, scholars are split between egalitarian and libertarian approaches. Those that support the egalitarian approach believe that colonias currently demonstrate a notion of inferiority for those that dwell there; in response, they propose standards of living enforced by government regulation. However, supporters of the libertarian style favor the informality of this living system for providing an affordable housing option for those in need, and criticize government action to impose living standards without providing colonians with the resources to sustain them.\n\nEnhancing the lives of the colonians through policy has proven to be difficult and slow. Funding for infrastructure projects for colonias is contingent on defining a \"colonia\", and establishing effective criteria for this purpose has proven to be a challenge. The Farm Housing provisions of the United States Code define a colonia as a community that (1) is in the state of Arizona, California, New Mexico, or Texas; (2) is within of the Mexico–U.S. border (except for any metropolitan area exceeding one million people); (3) on the basis of objective criteria, lacks adequate sewage systems and lacks decent, safe, and sanitary housing; and (4) existed as a colonia before November 28, 1990. Other definitions are used by specific governmental agencies (e.g.: HUD, USDA, Environmental Protection Agency [EPA], and the Texas Code). Many scholars criticize the existing federal criteria as being too broad in that most definitions of colonias are based on the archetype that exists on the border in Texas. While colonias in Texas are known for being peri-urban settlements with mostly Hispanic dwellers, settlements in California are located in old rural towns with ethnically diverse populations. This has hindered colonia infrastructure development in California. Criteria have also been described as too narrow, relying on numeric values to determine whether a settlement qualifies. Under the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), funds designated within the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) were to benefit colonias along the Mexico–U.S. border, defined by various numeric values. However, colonias such as those in Riverside and San Diego counties are disqualified from the CBDG for being within metropolitan statistical areas (MSAs) with over a million people. Similarly, the U.S. Department of Agriculture limits its colonias to settlements of no more than 20,000 residents, disqualifying the majority of communities seeking funding in California. The EPA's definition of colonias derives from NAFTA, which limits these colonias to a distance from the border. This limits all designated colonias in California to roughly the area of Imperial County.\n\nThe North American Agreement on Environmental Cooperation (NAAEC) is an international environmental-agreement between the governments of Canada, Mexico, and the United States. NAFTA sought to promote economic growth by lowering most of the existing barriers to trade. While many advocates of NAFTA argued that it would indirectly increase the standard of living and thus environmental spending on the border, many critics commented on the fact that only a single sentence in the agreement's preamble addressed the environmental impacts of promoting free trade. In order to ensure that NAFTA would pass, the Clinton Administration pushed for NAAEC as a side agreement specifically to aid border environmental issues. From NAAEC came the creation of the Commission on Environmental Cooperation (CEC), an institution providing a forum for environmental-law enforcement disputes to be resolved. Scholars generally agree that the NAAEC's diction is ambiguous and does not clearly define the authority that the organization has; it is also unclear whether violators are obligated to respond to inquiries made by the CEC, and thus few parties have actually been investigated and punished for failing to cooperate.\n\nThe charter creating the Border Environment Cooperation Commission (BECC) and North American Development Bank (NADB) was the first multinational agreement to address the problems faced by colonians. These two binational institutions were created to resolve issues that revolve around land contamination and sustainable water/wastewater infrastructure and compensate for CEC's shortcomings. However, BECC/NADB does not explicitly address the colonias themselves but rather the Mexico–U.S. border, defining the border as areas in the U.S. \"within 100 kilometers [62 miles] and the area in Mexico that is within 300 kilometers [190 miles] of the international boundary.\" BECC/NADB consists of a board comprising members from both the U.S. and Mexican governments, and thus lies equally within the jurisdiction of each nation's government; this includes the Administrator for EPA and the Secretaries of State and Treasury from the U.S., and the Secretaries for the Environment and Natural Resources, Treasury, and External Relations from Mexico, as well as one state representative and non-governmental organization from each country. The BECC certifies projects that meet criteria in order to receive funding from the NADB. Projects can be proposed by anyone; in doing this, the BECC/NADB seek to promote public participation in sustainably developing the Mexico–U.S. border.\n\nThough the programs have been praised as revolutionary, critics have said progress is slow with NADB; it failed to fund a single infrastructure project within a year of its creation, despite the approval of several projects by BECC. These programs have been criticized for failing to consider who will pay to maintain the completed infrastructure. Because BECC is not a regulatory agency, its decisions are not enforceable. Critics of BECC/NADB have suggested the implementation of punitive measures such as monetary penalties to complement the system of incentives currently in place.\n\nThe Crantston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act of 1990 was created to help families that did not own homes to make down-payments for purchasing homes, expand on the supply of affordable housing for low-income families, and promote cooperation between all levels of government and the private sector in this expansion. The Act is considered one of the most-important policies relating to U.S. colonias for setting aside funds from the Community Development Block Grant Program (CDBG) to go directly towards enhancing their living standards, and bringing to the public an awareness of colonias in California, Arizona, and New Mexico. These CDBG funds are particularly used to improve potable water, sewer systems, and sanitary housing in the colonias. The Act is credited for inspiring other agencies, such as the EPA, to fund programs targeting development on the Mexico–U.S. border.\n\nCritics have stated that HUD's focus has been on preventing the development of colonias rather than seeking to provide those of low-income with a larger supply of affordable housing. As is the case with BECC/NADB, critics have also claimed that the projects seeking to improve infrastructure have been underwhelming. Scholars have urged the HUD to make use of its ability to work with the private sector by encouraging private investment in the direct development of the current colonias. Rather than eliminating the colonias, many have proposed to instead have the private sector create better dwellings at low costs within the area while also improving the already-established dwellings.\n\nHousing and community advocacy organizations work to alleviate poverty in \"colonias\" by promoting self-help housing programs that provide \"colonia\" residents with resources to build their own homes, fostering community empowerment and raising public awareness. These groups include the Texas Low Income Housing Information Service (TxLIHIS), an affordable-housing-advocacy nonprofit organization, and the Colonias Development Council in New Mexico.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35749444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35749444", "title": "Computer Interchange of Museum Information", "text": "Computer Interchange of Museum Information\n\nThe Consortium for Computer Interchange of Museum Information (CIMI) was an initiative for museum IT standards under the auspices of the Coalition for Networked Information (CNI).\n\nThe CIMI project was started in 1990 by the US-based Museum Computer Network (MCN) and operated as a committee of MCN. It aimed to develop a standards framework to help museums in exchanging data and providing standard databases. This was published in MCN's \"Spectra\".\n\nCIMI's project managers included Cary Karp and John Perkins.\n"}
{"id": "35858876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35858876", "title": "Critical Studies in Media Communication", "text": "Critical Studies in Media Communication\n\nCritical Studies in Media Communication is a peer-reviewed academic journal covering media and mass communication from a cultural studies and critical perspective. The journal is published by Routledge on behalf of the National Communication Association and the editor-in-chief is Robert Alan Brookey (Ball State University). From 1984 to 1999 it was published as \"Critical Studies in Mass Communication\".\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in\n\nAccording to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2017 impact factor of 0.789.\n"}
{"id": "18933750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18933750", "title": "Cross of Saint Euphrosyne", "text": "Cross of Saint Euphrosyne\n\nThe Cross of Saint Euphrosyne was a revered relic of the Russian Orthodox Church and Belarus, which was made in 1161 by Lazar Bohsha for the order of Saint Euphrosyne of Polatsk and lost in June 1941 in Mahilyow.\n\nEuphrosyne, mother superior of Polatsk Convent, ordered the cross to decorate the new Transfiguration church. The simple cypress cross was decorated with gold, gemstones and enamel, depicting Jesus Christ, John the Baptist, Theotokos, the Four Evangelists, archangels Gabriel and Michael, and three patron saints of Euphrosyne and her parents. The work cost 120 hryvnas. Inside, the cross contained pieces of the Holy Cross and other relics.\n\nIn the 13th century, the cross was relocated to Smolensk; after a long travel across the country, it was returned to Polatsk in 1841. The cross was thoroughly photographed for the record in 1896. In 1928 the nationalized relic was taken to Minsk, then, in 1929, to Mahilyow, and was locked in a safe box of the regional communist party headquarters.\n\nThe cross disappeared during the swift occupation of Belarus by German forces (June–July 1941).\n\nThere are no reliable accounts of what happened to the cross in 1941. There are at least three different versions (other than destruction by fire or plunder):\n\n\nIn 1997, Nikolay Kuzmich, a craftsman from Brest, completed an officially endorsed replica of the cross, now on display in the Polatsk cathedral.\n\nThe Cross of St. Euphrosyne is often used as a national symbol of Belarus. The 1991 version of the Belarusian coat of arms Pahonia features a cross resembling the Cross of St. Euphrosyne on the knight's shield.\n\nThe Cross is the subject of two postage stamps of Belarus, issued in 1992 and 2001, and a commemorative coin of Belarus issued in 2007.\n\nThe national-democratic opposition movement Young Front has the cross as main element of its symbol.\n"}
{"id": "2596860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2596860", "title": "Cuicuilco", "text": "Cuicuilco\n\nCuicuilco is an important archaeological site located on the southern shore of Lake Texcoco in the southeastern Valley of Mexico, in what is today the borough of Tlalpan in Mexico City. The settlement goes back to 1400 BC.\n\nCuicuilco flourished during the Mesoamerican Middle and Late Formative (c. 700 BCE – 150 CE) periods.\n\nToday, it is a significant archaeological site that was occupied during the Early Formative until its destruction in the Late Formative. Based on its date of occupation, Cuicuilco may be the oldest city in the Valley of Mexico and was roughly contemporary with, and possibly interacting with, the Olmec of the Gulf Coast of lowland Veracruz and Tabasco (also known as the Olmec heartland).\n\nBased on known facts, it was the first important civic-religious center of the Mexican Highlands, its population probably including all the social strata and cultural traits that would characterize the altépetl (city-state) of classical Mesoamerica.\n\nCuicuilco was destroyed and abandoned following the eruption of the volcano Xitle, causing migrations and changes to the population and culminating in the consolidation of Teotihuacan as the ruler of the Central Highlands during the Early Classic period.\n\nAt the site are eight of the many housing and religious buildings that once existed and the remains of a hydraulic system that supplied water to the city. One of the pyramids was built in a strategic position, representing early prehispanic attempts to link religious concepts with cosmic events through building construction.\n\nThe etymology is unknown.\n\nAccording to Mexico's Instituto Nacional de Antropología e Historia (National Institute of Anthropology and History, INAH), American archaeologist and anthropologist Zelia Nuttall (1857–1933) believed that Cuicuilco means: “Place where songs and dances are made”.\n\nCuicuilco was founded as a farming village, but provides evidence of early religious practices, including stone offerings and the use of ceramics as grave goods. The city grew around a large ceremonial center with pyramids and an associated urban area that included plazas and avenues bordering a series of small, shallow pools. These pools were fed by runoff from the nearby hills of Zacayuca and Zacaltepetl. The population at the city's peak is estimated at 20,000 people. The features of the site include terraces, various buildings, fortifications, and irrigation ditches and canals. The main known structure is a pyramidal basement built about 800–600 BCE.\n\nAlthough this site produced a new ceramic tradition (around 600–200 BCE), it is considered that the overall site area was developed over several generations of inhabitants.\n\nArchaeological evidence, ceramic and structures, indicate that Cuicuilco developed during the first millennium BCE, during the Preclassic, as a small settlement, its inhabitants interacting with other sites in the Basin of Mexico as well as relatively distant regions, e.g. Chupicuaro to the west and Monte Albán southeast.\n\nEstimated occupation periods for Cuicuilco may be considered tentative at best. The earliest occupation is estimated in 1200 BCE, and included many farming villages of similar configuration and space distribution. During the period 1000–800 BCE, conical structures with an oval base were built. Specialists call these sites regional capitals, considering that they had higher hierarchy and functioned as integration centers, eventually becoming larger regional capitals.\n\nIf the great pyramid of Cuicuilco is an expression of this growth, then this level of development was reached between 800–600 BC, when it was built. If true, these proto-urban characteristics might have extended into the late Preclassic, with Cuicuilco weakening between 100 BCE and 1 CE, the time when Teotihuacan began to develop , later becoming an important urban center in the Classic period.\n\nIn the mid-Preclassic (c. 800 BCE), settlements emerged in the area, which slowly evolved and grew, becoming cities, subsequently developing into a major civic-ceremonial urban centers in the late Preclassic (c. 100 CE). As an urban center, Cuicuilco became very important, with an advanced and stratified society.\n\nSome experts theorize that the development of the site, from its foundation, was due to its strategic location near the pass of Toluca, and near the shores of Lake Texcoco.\n\nUnder this perspective, although the place produced (around 600–200 BCE) a new ceramic tradition, is also evident that the region was configured by successive generations.\n\nTowards the late Preclassic period, around 150 BCE, Cuicuilco became an urban regional center, with a population estimated at about 20,000 inhabitants, comparable with Teotihuacan at that time (cf. Sanders, 1981). Cuicuilco's development was affected by the eruption of the Xitle volcano, which formed a layer of lava that partially or completely covered the city’s structures, whose extension is inferred to have reached nearly 400 hectares (cf. ibid.).\n\nThe inhabitants had round heads affected by direct or oblique tubular cranial deformation, the first being more common. Dental mutilation was practised. The average life span was 51 years, affected mainly by diseases like osteomyelitis.\n\nFrom their location, inhabitants had access to natural resources, as they were located approximately 4 km from Lake Xochimilco, and near the and Ajusco (cf. Sanders 1981: 173); In addition there were water springs and streams. Prehispanic groups managed to produce food. The economic base was centered on agriculture, probably supplemented by hunting, fishing and gathering; access to wood had to be simple, from nearby forests, and agricultural land in the vicinity of the nuclear portion of the site, buried today under meters of volcanic lava and modern buildings.\n\nThe decline began in the early 1st century BCE, with the rise of Teotihuacán as a center of cultural and religious influence. By the year 400 CE, the Xitle volcano, located in the vicinity of Ajusco (Nahuatl: atl, xochitl, co, “water”, “flower”, “place”; “place of flowers in water”), also known as Sierra del Ajusco - Chichinauhtzin, erupted, burying and destroying what still remained of Cuicuilco and Copilco (another important ceremonial center). This disaster led to the dispersion of Cuicuilca culture towards Toluca and Teotihuacan, which hosted a large part of the Cuicuilcas and incorporated many features of their culture.\n\nIt is considered that the Cuicuilco's decline (100 BCE to 1 CE) had a minor recovery in 1–150 CE, due to the presence of representations of fire deities.\n\nAlso, according to some other sources, a series of volcano eruptions and the destruction of Cuicuilco took place in the 1st century BC.\n\nIn spite of the abandonment of Cuicuilco as an important ceremonial center, people continued making offerings even after the site was covered by lava from the Xitle volcano, which happened around 400 CE or in the range 245 to 315 AD.\nWith Cuicuilco in ruins, Xitle erupted once again, covering much of the city in lava. This lava flow is evident based on excavation around the main pyramid. Excavations show a layer of lava separating the modern surface from the original, ancient surface. This shows much of the city was completely destroyed by the lava flows. This series of eruptions gave rise to Teotihuacan as the center of the Basin of Mexico.\n\nFrom the beginning of the last century, “El Pedregal” was an attractive place to define the predecessor cultures of the Teotihuacan y Mexica cultures in the México basin. Investigations at Cuicuilco B demonstrated that the site's development was as a consequence of internal dynamics.\n\nArchaeologists conclude that Cuicuilco was a prominent community prior to the emergence of Teotihuacan as an urban center, noting that the six small communities which some archeologists believe eventually combined to become Teotihuacan were founded and showing evidence of modest growth at the same time that Cuicuilco was building pyramids and public monuments. The city seems to have been abandoned around AD 150 to 200 after the eruption of a nearby volcano, Xitle, although the territory was reoccupied at a much later date. Pottery and other evidence suggest that refugees from the volcanic disaster migrated north and became part of the population pool of Teotihuacan, near the northern shore of the Lake Texcoco.\n\nThe site of Cuicuilco is covered by a dense volcanic lava field known as the Pedregal de San Ángel. The lava covers an area of approximately 80 km², including the foothills of the Ajusco mountain range and extending down to a nearby lake shore. A 1956 study concluded that the uneven lava deposits, reaching a depth over 10 m in areas, were a major factor in the preservation of Cuicuilco. The site is also inside a modern urban area, and is partially covered by buildings associated with the National University of Mexico. Only partial archaeological investigation has been possible, and modern building techniques have damaged the prehistoric city. Several 1990 archaeological finds at Cuicuilco, consisting of a circular pyramid constructed within a plaza with smaller structures associated with the agricultural system, were destroyed for the construction of a multi-storied office complex. Consequently, the true size and complexity of Cuicuilco may be difficult to ascertain.\n\nThe prehispanic settlement and its surroundings, upon being covered by lava, were sealed and preserved. Archaeological materials above the lava were affected differently during the last 2000 years.\n\nThe lava flow sealed off the northern shore of the lake and appears to have created a marshy peat deposit in the eastern section. Multiple layers of volcanic ash from Xitle and possibly from Popocatepetl have been detected in the peat.\n\nIt has also been suggested that other volcanoes in the area may have played a role.\n\"No geological evidence under the Xitle flow suggests an earlier eruption, but another monogenetic volcano, Chichinautzin, was also active in the area prior to Xitle and is believed to have had a similarly large flow and to have resulted in similar ecological changes. The Yololica volcano also erupted at about the same time as Xitle, and its lava flows are only a few kilometers from Cuicuilco\".\nDuring Byron Cummings' 1922–1925 exploration, ceramics were found from phases preceding the eruption. Eduardo Noguera (1939) excavated burials in the proximity of the pyramidal sector known as Cuicuilco A, corresponding to the preclassical archaeological site. In 1957, investigations by Heiser and Bennyhoff provided relevant information to refine the chronological sequence of the main building basement (cf. Schávelzon, 1983)\n\nBetween 1966 and 1968, important complexes of architectural structures were found as well as a series of conical formations, a group called Cuicuilco B, where more than 300,000 ceramic pots were rescued (Müller, 1990). Based on analysis of archaeological ceramics of Cuicuilco B, Florence Müller determined that the occupation of the settlement continued after the Xitle eruption, during the Classical, Epiclassical, postclassical periods until the Spanish conquest, even though the importance of the site as well as the number of inhabitants dropped radically.\n\nIn 1990, in the sector known as Cuicuilco C, Rodríguez identified predominant preclassical ceramic materials, as well as, to a lesser extent, pots from later periods, including colonial and modern (Rodriguez, 1994).\n\nStratigraphy has determined that, after the Xitle eruption, materials were deposited on a layer of lava cushions associated with a body of water, which demonstrate the presence of settlements or villages from approximately 200 to 950 CE, according to the preliminary analysis of ceramic layer\n\nFeatures of archaeological materials allow inferring the context of the natural and cultural training processes. Inhabitants discarded vases and fragments in the vicinity of the body of water, and many pots were trapped in the lava, especially domestic pieces such as pans, pots, pitchers, dishes, boxes and comales, even if it does not preclude the possibility that at the end of the life of these vessels, they were simply thrown into the water, considered as trash. On the other hand, the presence of braziers fragments, miniature pieces and Tlaloc vases indicates that these were thrown into the water as offerings as part of rites similar to those recorded by Spanish chroniclers as Sahagún (1989) and Duran (1967) in the twin cities of Tenochtitlan and Tlatelolco as well as in other settlements in late postclassical Mexico.\n\nMany ceramic materials identified in the preliminary analysis correspond to phases of Teotihuacán's apogee during the classical period (Tlamimilolpa and Xolalpan phases), between 200 and 650 CE. According to recently adjusted chronology based on radiocarbon dating (cf. Rattray, 1991); predominant types are temporarily located in the epiclassical period, 650-950 CE, Coyotlatelco tradition (cf. Rattray, 1966), and are contemporaneous with the Tula Chico occupation (cf. Cobean, 1990), as well as other important settlements in the Valley of Mexico, as Cerro de la Estrella and Azcapotzalco (altepetl). There are also materials, although in low percentages, whose production and consumption starts in the epiclassical (based recent research made in the Tula region) but have been associated with the Tula apogee. According to ethno-historical sources and some radiocarbon dating, it is located chronologically between 950 and 1150 CE. (cf. Cobean, 1990)\n\nThese archaeological materials indicate strong social interaction between the Valley of Mexico and other regions under the hegemonic power of Teotihuacán, as well as the conformation of sociopolitical units after the decline of said Empire, also as evidence of socio-economic aspects associated with the emergence of the Toltec State.\n\nIt is a restricted area where deposits were affected by activities of the 20th century, fragments found of Aztec ceramics from the end of the late postclassical, materials of the colonial period (native and Spaniards) as well as 19th-century European fine earthenware. This material provides evidence of a settlement or village in Cuicuilco from the Tepaneca-Aztec empire, before the Spaniards' arrival, continuing the occupation of land owners such as Bernal Díaz del Castillo and other.\n\nDue to its location, Cuicuilco is in a difficult situation. Among the issues are modern planning and economic interests of the place, as well as disputes on conservation and legislation of the archaeological heritage.\n\nKnown Cuicuilco is divided into two zones. The first is known as Cuicuilco A, where the ceremonial center is located. The other is called Cuicuilco B and lies West of Cuicuilco A, in the Olympic village Sports Centre.\n\nIts importance is recognized by all historians and archaeologists; however it has barely been studied, especially when compared with other archaeological sites, such as Teotihuacan and Tula. The main investigation obstacle is that the area is covered almost entirely with a lava layer of about 9 to 10 meters thick. This difficulty is compounded by urbanization of the area, with constructions directly above the archaeological site, such as the Telmex building and the Cuicuilco commercial Plaza in 1997.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "827604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=827604", "title": "Dalit Kisan Dal", "text": "Dalit Kisan Dal\n\nDalit Kisan Dal (Dalit Peasants Party), is a political party in Punjab, India. The party was formed as a splinter group from Lok Bhalai Party 2001, when activists from LBP in Khamano, Machhiwara, Ropar and Samrala broke away. As of 2001 the general secretary of DKD was Bhinder Singh Ranwan, and the party president was Iqbal Singh Kapurthala. The party claims to fight for better conditions for peasants and dalits.\n"}
{"id": "44844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44844", "title": "Deixis", "text": "Deixis\n\nIn linguistics, deixis () refers to words and phrases, such as \"me\" or \"here\", that cannot be fully understood without additional contextual information—in this case, the identity of the speaker (\"me\") and the speaker's location (\"here\"). Words are deictic if their semantic meaning is fixed but their denotational meaning varies depending on time and/or place. Words or phrases that require contextual information to convey any meaning—for example, English pronouns—are deictic. Deixis is closely related to anaphora, as will be further explained below. Although this article deals primarily with deixis in spoken language, the concept is sometimes applied to written language, gestures, and communication media as well. In linguistic anthropology, deixis is treated as a particular subclass of the more general semiotic phenomenon of indexicality, a sign \"pointing to\" some aspect of its context of occurrence.\n\nAlthough this article draws examples primarily from English, deixis is believed to be a feature (to some degree) of all natural languages. The term's origin is , the meaning \"point of reference\" in contemporary linguistics having been taken over from Chrysippus.\n\nPossibly the most common categories of contextual information referred to by deixis are those of person, place, and time—what Fillmore calls the \"major grammaticalized types\" of deixis.\n\nPerson deixis concerns itself with the grammatical persons involved in an utterance, (1) those directly involved (e.g. the speaker, the addressee), (2) those not directly involved (e.g. overhearers—those who hear the utterance but who are not being directly addressed), and (3) those mentioned in the utterance. In English, the distinctions are generally indicated by pronouns. The following examples show how. (The person deictic terms are in \"italics\", a signaling notation that will continue through this article.)\n\nIn languages (like English) with gendered pronouns, the third-person masculine pronoun has traditionally been used as a default when using \"it\" is inappropriate but the gender of its antecedent is unknown or inapplicable.\n\nFor example:\n\nIn English, it is often now common to use the third-person plural, even when the antecedent is singular:\n\nIn languages that distinguish between masculine and feminine plural pronouns, such as French or Serbo-Croatian, the masculine is again often used as default. \"Ils vont à la bibliothèque\"\", \"Oni idu u biblioteku\"\" (\"They go to the library\") may refer either to a group of masculine nouns or a group of both masculine and feminine nouns. \"Elles vont...\"\", \"One idu...\"\" would be used only for a group of feminine nouns. In many such languages, the gender (as a grammatical category) of a noun is only tangentially related to the gender of the thing the noun represents. For example, in French, the generic \"personne\", meaning a person (of either sex) is always a feminine noun, and so if the subject of discourse is \"les personnes\" (the people), the use of \"elles\" is obligatory, even if the people being considered are all men.\n\nPlace deixis, also known as space deixis, concerns itself with the spatial locations relevant to an utterance. Similarly to person deixis, the locations may be either those of the speaker and addressee or those of persons or objects being referred to. The most salient English examples are the adverbs \"here\" and \"there\" and the demonstratives \"this\" and \"that\"—although those are far from being the only deictic words.\n\nSome examples:\n\nUnless otherwise specified, place deictic terms are generally understood to be relative to the location of the speaker, as in\n\nwhere \"across the street\" is understood to mean \"across the street from where I am right now.\" Although \"here\" and \"there\" are often used to refer to locations near to and far from the speaker, respectively, \"there\" can also refer to the location of the addressee, if they are not in the same location as the speaker. So, although\n\nexemplifies the former usage, \n\nis an example of the latter.\n\n\nThe above utterance would generally be considered as the speaker's expression of his/her \"going\" home, yet it appears to be perfectly normal for one to project his physical presence to his home rather than away from home. Here is another common example:\n\nDespite its common usage to address people who call with no one answering the phone, the \"here\" here is semantically contradictory to one's absence. Nevertheless, this is considered normal for most people as speakers have to project themselves as answering the phone when in fact they are not physically. \n\nLanguages usually show at least a two-way referential distinction in their deictic system: proximal, i.e. near or closer to the speaker; and distal, i.e. far from the speaker and/or closer to the addressee. English exemplifies this with such pairs as \"this\" and \"that\", \"here\" and \"there\", etc. \n\nIn other languages, the distinction is three-way or higher: proximal, i.e. near the speaker; medial, i.e. near the addressee; and distal, i.e. far from both. This is the case in a few Romance languages and in Serbo-Croatian, Korean, Japanese, Thai, Filipino and Turkish. The archaic English forms \"yon\" and \"yonder\" (still preserved in some regional dialects) once represented a distal category that has now been subsumed by the formerly medial \"there\". In the Sinhala language, there is a four-way deixis system for both person and place; near the speaker /me_ː/, near the addressee /o_ː/, close to a third person, visible /arə_ː/ and far from all, not visible /e_ː/. The Malagasy language has seven degrees of distance combined with two degrees of visibility, while Inuit languages have even more complex systems.\n\nTime, or temporal, deixis concerns itself with the various times involved in and referred to in an utterance. This includes time adverbs like \"now\", \"then\", \"soon\", and so forth, and also different tenses. A good example is the word \"tomorrow\", which denotes the consecutive next day after every day. The \"tomorrow\" of a day last year was a different day from the \"tomorrow\" of a day next week. Time adverbs can be relative to the time when an utterance is made (what Fillmore calls the \"encoding time\", or ET) or when the utterance is heard (Fillmore's \"decoding time\", or DT). Although these are frequently the same time, they can differ, as in the case of prerecorded broadcasts or correspondence. For example, if one were to write\n\nthe ET and DT would be different, with the former deictic term concerning ET and the latter the DT.\n\nTenses are generally separated into absolute (deictic) and relative tenses. So, for example, simple English past tense is absolute, such as in\n\nwhereas the pluperfect is relative to some other deictically specified time, as in\n\nThough the traditional categories of deixis are perhaps the most obvious, there are other types of deixis that are similarly pervasive in language use. These categories of deixis were first discussed by Fillmore and Lyons.\n\nDiscourse deixis, also referred to as text deixis, refers to the use of expressions within an utterance to refer to parts of the discourse that contains the utterance — including the utterance itself. For example, in\n\n\"this\" refers to an upcoming portion of the discourse, and in \n\n\"that\" refers to a prior portion of the discourse.\n\nDistinction must be made between discourse deixis and anaphora, which is when an expression makes reference to the same referent as a prior term, as in\n\nLyons points out that it is possible for an expression to be both deictic and anaphoric at the same time. In his example\n\n\"here\" or \"there\" function anaphorically in their reference to London, and deictically in that the choice between \"here\" or \"there\" indicates whether the speaker is or is not currently in London.\n\nThe rule of thumb to distinguish the two phenomena is as follows: when an expression refers to another linguistic expression or a piece of discourse, it is discourse deictic. When that expression refers to the same item as a prior linguistic expression, it is anaphoric.\n\nSwitch reference is a type of discourse deixis, and a grammatical feature found in some languages, which indicates whether the argument of one clause is the same as the argument of the previous clause. In some languages, this is done through same subject markers and different subject markers. In the translated example \"John punched Tom, and left-[same subject marker],\" it is John who left, and in \"John punched Tom, and left-[different subject marker],\" it is Tom who left.\n\nSocial deixis concerns the social information that is encoded within various expressions, such as relative social status and familiarity. Two major forms of it are the so-called T–V distinctions and honorifics.\n\nT–V distinctions, named for the Latin \"tu\" and \"vos\" (singular and plural versions of \"you\") is the name given to the phenomenon when a language has two different second-person pronouns. The varying usage of these pronouns indicates something about formality, familiarity, and/or solidarity between the interactants. So, for example, the T form might be used when speaking to a friend or social equal, whereas the V form would be used speaking to a stranger or social superior. This phenomenon is common in European languages.\n\nHonorifics are a much more complex form of social deixis than T–V distinctions, though they encode similar types of social information. They can involve words being marked with various morphemes as well as nearly entirely different lexicons being used based on the social status of the interactants. This type of social deixis is found in a variety of languages, but is especially common in South and East Asia. Persian also makes wide use of honorifics.\n\nGenerally speaking, \"anaphora\" refers to the way in which a word or phrase relates to other text:\n\nA deictic center, sometimes referred to as an origo, is a set of theoretical points that a deictic expression is 'anchored' to, such that the evaluation of the meaning of the expression leads one to the relevant point. As deictic expressions are frequently egocentric, the center often consists of the speaker at the time and place of the utterance, and additionally, the place in the discourse and relevant social factors. However, deictic expressions can also be used in such a way that the deictic center is transferred to other participants in the exchange, or to persons / places / etc. being described in a narrative. So, for example, in the sentence\n\nthe deictic center is simply the person at the time and place of speaking. But say two people are talking on the phone long-distance, from London to New York. The Londoner can say\n\nin which case the deictic center is in London, or they can equally validly say\n\nin which case the deictic center is in New York. Similarly, when telling a story about someone, the deictic center is likely to switch to them. So then in the sentence\n\nit is understood that the center is with the person being spoken of, and thus, \"to the left\" refers not to the speaker's left, but to the object of the story's left, that is, the person referred to as 'he' at the time immediately before he ran twenty feet.\n\nIt is helpful to distinguish between two usages of deixis, gestural and symbolic, as well as non-deictic usages of frequently deictic words. Gestural deixis refers, broadly, to deictic expressions whose understanding requires some sort of audio-visual information. A simple example is when an object is pointed at and referred to as \"this\" or \"that\". However, the category can include other types of information than pointing, such as direction of gaze, tone of voice, and so on. Symbolic usage, by contrast, requires generally only basic spatio-temporal knowledge of the utterance. So, for example\n\nrequires being able to see which finger is being held up, whereas\n\nrequires only knowledge of the current location. In a similar vein, \n\nis a non-deictic usage of \"this\", which does not reference anything specific. Rather, it is used as an indefinite article, much the way \"a\" could be used in its place.\n\nThe terms deixis and indexicality are frequently used almost interchangeably, and both deal with essentially the same idea: contextually dependent references. However, the two terms have different histories and traditions. In the past, deixis was associated specifically with spatiotemporal reference whereas indexicality was used more broadly. More importantly, each is associated with a different field of study; deixis is associated with linguistics, whereas indexicality is associated with philosophy as well as pragmatics.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "273613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=273613", "title": "Diamond jubilee", "text": "Diamond jubilee\n\nA diamond jubilee is a celebration held to mark a 60th anniversary of an event related to a person (e.g. accession to the throne, wedding, etc.).\n\nThe 60-year reign of Queen Victoria, which was commemorated as the Diamond Jubilee of Queen Victoria was celebrated on 22 June 1897. The Diamond Jubilee of Queen Elizabeth II was celebrated across the Commonwealth of Nations throughout 2012. George III of the United Kingdom died a few months before his diamond jubilee was due in 1820.\n\nIn East Asia, the diamond jubilee coincides with the traditional sixty-year sexagenary cycle, which is held in special importance despite not being called a \"diamond jubilee.\"\n\nMonarchs such as the Kangxi and Qianlong emperors of China, and Hirohito of emperor of Japan held celebrations for their sixtieth year of reign, as did King Bhumibol Adulyadej the King of Thailand on 10 June 2006.\n\nNational governments also mark their sixtieth anniversary as diamond jubilees, as did the Republic of Korea in 2005 and the People's Republic of China in 2009.\n\nIn South Asia, the term is also used for certain 100-week anniversaries. For instance, in both India and Pakistan, a diamond jubilee film is one shown in cinemas for 100 weeks or more.\n\nThe longest reigning monarch in history, Sobhuza II of Swaziland, celebrated his diamond jubilee in 1981, dating from when he gained direct rule.\n\n"}
{"id": "9878820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9878820", "title": "El Puente (Maya site)", "text": "El Puente (Maya site)\n\nEl Puente, or the \"Parque Arqueológico El Puente\" (\"El Puente Archaeological Park\"), is a Maya archaeological site in the department of Copán in Honduras. Once an independent Maya city, the city of El Puente became a tributary to the nearby city of Copán between the 6th and 9th centuries AD. The site contains more than 200 structures that include tombs, religious structures, and living quarters, but only a few have been excavated, including a large Maya step pyramid.\n\nEl Puente is located in the Florida Valley in the municipality of La Jigua, to the north of the Honduran town of La Entrada. The site is north of the confluence of the Chamelecón and Chinamito Rivers. El Puente is east of the El Paraíso archaeological site. The site is located within the Southern Maya area on the southeastern periphery of Mesoamerica, and it was situated on the frontier between Maya and non-Maya peoples.\n\nThe site was first described by Jens Yde in 1935. He mapped the site but did not carry out any excavations. The site received a Cultural Heritage of the Nation designation by executive decree in March 1989. The La Entrada Archaeological Project (PALE – from \"Proyecto Arqueológico La Entrada\" in Spanish) started excavations at El Puente in 1991 with the intention of creating the second archaeological park in the country, after Copán. The Parque Arqueológico El Puente opened on 20 January 1994 and includes a visitor centre, site museum and administrative offices.\n\nEl Puente appears to have been first settled around the middle of the 6th century AD, in the Early Classic period, fairly late in the Mesoamerican timescale and occupation at the site did not last very long. Architectural and ceramic similarities with Copán suggest that El Puente was founded by that city to control the crossroads of two trade routes that met in the valley. The site was a regional centre during the Late Classic period when it remained closely allied with the great city of Copán.\n\nAfter the collapse of Copán in the Terminal Classic (between AD 850–950), the La Entrada region suffered politically with local elites losing prestige and territory. However, unlike at Copán, there does not seem to have been overuse of local resources and El Puente appears to have received immigrants from Copán during the Late Classic.\n\nAlthough the architecture is predominantly Maya there are slight non-Maya influences from the neighbouring non-Maya area, such as long structures connected end-to-end. The architecture at El Puente also tends to lack the symmetry found in traditional Maya sites with a long occupational history, perhaps due to a lesser level of technical ability. For example, stairways on the main buildings are of different sizes on each of the four sides of the structures. Quality of workmanship in the working of stone for construction can differ markedly from one building to the next, or even within the same structure.\n\nThe principal materials for construction were tufa, schist and a hard limestone, with tufa being the commonest stone used at the site. The tufa is very fragile and the cut tufa stones have frequently crumbled to dust. The infill used within the structures is quite inconsistent and consists of stone, earth and clay. The mortar used in construction was of low quality, with little lime, using only a hard clay that was particularly vulnerable to water damage, causing the stucco facing to come away from the structures and resulting in their complete collapse.\n\nThe plazas had a well-designed drainage system to channel runoff rainwater. These channels were carved from stone and at the base of Structure 5 one of the channels is still functional. Another has been excavated on the east side of Structure 3.\n\nSeveral burials have been excavated, some are accompanied by offerings of jade and ceramic vessels decorated with bands of hieroglyphs. One of these vessels contained an additional offering of 13 obsidian prismatic blades. Rough stones were placed in a circle around one burial, with a seashell placed beside the skull.\n\nGreen obsidian from the Pachuca source in central Mexico has been excavated at the site.\n\nEl Puente has 210 structures and the site core contains 5 plazas. Nine structures at the site have been investigated and restored. Parts of the site have been severely damaged by looters and by agricultural activities.\n\nStructure 1 is the tallest building at El Puente, measuring tall. It appears to have been built in the 7th century AD, its earliest version bears a stylistic similarity to buildings from that period in Copán. It was a radial pyramid with six tiers and stairways on all four sides, with the east and west stairways being the best preserved. It was topped by a superstructure with three rooms and fallen remains indicated that it had a vaulted roof with channels to drain off rainwater. The wall was decorated with sculptures of three human figures. Archaeologists have tunnelled within the structure and have also excavated around it, revealing a large amount of ceramic fragments, burnt clay, and burnt maize and beans. The structure has been badly damaged by looters.\n\nStructure 3 has excellent quality stonework in the wall on the north side of its first-level platform but the rest of the building features markedly poorer quality workmanship.\n\nStructure 4 is on the northwest side of Plaza 1, at the extreme northwest of the site core.\n\nStructure 5 is also on the northwest side of Plaza 1, at the extreme northwest of the site core. It has three Copán-style rooms and traces of domestic activity were found during excavation. At only thick, the walls were not thick enough to have supported a vaulted roof.\n\nStructure 31 is a pyramid on the eastern side of the site core. Its eastern portion has been badly damaged by looters. The structure supported two rooms. The main room has the remains of a stone bench and an entrance that opens onto the main stairway that climbs the west side of the structure from Plaza C. The building had several construction phases, all dating to the Late Classic. Excavators found an increase in fragments of Copán-style polychrome ceramics in the final construction phase. An altar and a stela were associated with the temple, the stela was not inscribed with any hieroglyphic text.\n\n"}
{"id": "36926969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36926969", "title": "Enemy at the Gates: The Battle for Stalingrad", "text": "Enemy at the Gates: The Battle for Stalingrad\n\nEnemy at the Gates: The Battle for Stalingrad is a book written by William Craig and published in 1973 by Reader's Digest Press and in 1974 by Penguin Publishing. The 2001 film \"Enemy at the Gates\" utilized the book's title and used it as one of its sources, but was not a direct adaptation of the work.\n\nThe \"Slavic Review\" panned \"Enemy at the Gates\", calling it \"rambling and exaggerated\" and negatively comparing Craig to author Paul Carell. In contrast, \"The Washington Post\" was more favorable and drew favorable comparisons to Cornelius Ryan.\n"}
{"id": "18718941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18718941", "title": "European Journal of Philosophy", "text": "European Journal of Philosophy\n\nThe European Journal of Philosophy is a peer-reviewed academic journal of philosophy published quarterly by Wiley-Blackwell. It was established by Mark Sacks in 1993 and the current editor-in-chief is Joseph K. Schear.\n\nThe current members of the editorial committee for the journal are: \n\nThe following articles are listed by the journal as its \"Top Articles\":\n"}
{"id": "48082454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48082454", "title": "Far Cry Primal", "text": "Far Cry Primal\n\nFar Cry Primal is an action-adventure video game developed by Ubisoft Montreal and published by Ubisoft. It was released worldwide for PlayStation 4 and Xbox One on February 23, 2016, and for Microsoft Windows on March 1, 2016. The game is a spiritual predecessor to the main \"Far Cry\" series. It is the first \"Far Cry\" game set in the Mesolithic Age. It revolves around the story of Takkar, who starts off as an unarmed hunter and rises to become the leader of a tribe.\n\n\"Far Cry Primal\" received generally positive reception from critics, who mostly praised the concept and setting, as well as the animal-taming mechanic and world design. Some reviewers felt there was a lack of weapons for the player to utilize, leading to repetitive gameplay design, while others felt the story and characters were not on par with the previous \"Far Cry\" games.\n\n\"Far Cry Primal\" is an action-adventure game set in an open world environment and played from a first-person perspective. As the game is set in prehistoric times, the traditional gunplay and vehicle gameplay featured in the \"Far Cry\" series were removed, and the player can only get access to melee weapons such as spears, clubs and ranged weapons such as bows and slings. The player cannot purchase weapons and must craft them using the materials scavenged in the world such as wood and stone. As the player progresses, they can craft more lethal weapons with a larger variety of resources. Besides facing natural predators, the player must also compete with other hostile tribes occupying the area. By attacking and seizing bonfires and camps, the Wenja tribe will move in and begin patrolling the nearby region, and the player will gain fast travel points as well as camps to rest in. Non-player characters (NPCs) will also task the player to rescue tribe-mates and perform other tasks which improve the village, as well as provide free crafting materials. The game also features a dynamic weather system and day-night cycle, which affects the gameplay. At night, more predators are present, and many become more aggressive and dangerous, whereas at the day, the player can gather food and scavenge other resources such as tools for hunting. The player can also make use of fire as a tool for personal protection or hunting at night. \n\nThe player can bait different wildlife in the game using lures, and can also tame predators while they're feeding on the bait. These animals serve as a companion for the player and can assist them in combating enemies after being tamed, and can be summoned remotely and issued basic commands. Larger animals can be used as mounts. Takkar has an owl, his spirit animal which can be directly controlled. Through the owl's vision, the player can scout enemies' outposts and highlight enemies. Through skill improvements, the owl can be upgraded to have various abilities added, such as diving to kill an enemy or dropping bombs.\n\nIn a post-launch update, a survival mode, which drastically increases the game's difficulty, was introduced.\n\nThe game is set in 10,000BC during the end of the Upper Paleolithic and beginning of the Mesolithic period in Europe. It takes place in the fictional Oros valley in the Carpathian Mountains (Central Europe), an open world filled with different types of flora and fauna. Unlike previous games, there is prehistoric wildlife such as woolly mammoths, dire wolves, cave bears, cave lions, woolly rhinos, Irish elk and saber-toothed cats along with forms of modern creatures like brown bears, badgers, and deer. Survival is a daily challenge as tribes come into conflict with one another and nature.\n\nPlayers take on the role of a Wenja tribesman named Takkar (Elias Toufexis), who is stranded in Oros with no weapons after his hunting party is ambushed by a Saber-tooth Tiger. Takkar, using his newfound skill of taming animals, will eventually rise to power and lead his own tribe.\n\nTakkar, a hunter from the Wenja tribe, barely survives after his hunting party is ambushed and killed by a saber-toothed tiger as they travel to the land of Oros. Resigned to proceed alone, Takkar meets Sayla (Cara Ricketts), a woman also from the Wenja, and once they arrive at Oros, Sayla informs Takkar that the Wenja are scattered and homeless across the land after their village was destroyed by Ull (DeLaRosa Rivera), leader of the Neanderthal-like Udam tribe who live in the northern mountains, and hunt down the Wenja to cannibalize them. Takkar then starts gathering the Wenja he meets around his cave, eventually encountering the shaman Tensay (Terrence C. Carson), who helps him to learn the ability to tame the local animals.\n\nAfter repelling an attack from Ull to his newly established village, Takkar enlists the help of three other skilled Wenja: Jayma (Ayisha Issa), a veteran huntress, Wogah (Ron Kennell), a one-armed craftsman, and Karoosh (Nicolas Van Burek), a one-eyed warrior with his own vendetta against the Udam. With the help of Tensay, Takkar also discovers that the Udam are eating Wenja flesh in hopes of gaining immunity from a terminal genetic disease that is wiping out their tribe, then tracks down and apprehends the Udam commander Dah (Juan Carlos Velis) to learn more about the Udam's techniques. The Wenja reject Takkar's decision to give shelter to a member of the enemy tribe at first, and attempt to execute Dah behind his back, until Takkar himself arrives in time to rescue Dah and chastise the tribe for performing the execution without his permission, earning Dah's gratitude and help. When the agrarian and Aztec-like Izila, another, more advanced tribe that lives in the marshlands of southern Oros, begin capturing some Wenja prisoners for slavery and human sacrifice to the Sun, Takkar invades their domains to rescue them, coming face to face with their leader Batari (Debra Wilson). After he refuses to become Batari's slave, a war begins between the Wenja and Izila. Takkar then infiltrates the camp of an Izila commander named Roshani (Ali Momen) and captures him, allowing him to live in exchange for some Izila technology in both warfare and agriculture.\n\nAfter preparing himself enough to face Ull and Batari, Takkar storms the Udam and Izila's main fortresses, passing by all opposition before confronting and killing their commanders. While Batari is burned alive during a solar eclipse, Ull urges Takkar to take care of his two children with his dying breath, which Takkar accepts, taking them with him to his village in safety. With both rival tribes defeated and Wenja's dominance secured, Roshani agrees to stay with the Wenja and teach them how to grow food, while Takkar reluctantly agrees to mercifully kill Dah, ending his suffering from the Udam's disease. Takkar then celebrates his victory with the other villagers.\n\nIn the post-credits, Ull's daughter appears taming a cave bear, implying that she has acquired the same skill to tame animals as Takkar.\n\nThe development of \"Far Cry Primal\" was led by Ubisoft Montreal, with assistance provided by Ubisoft Toronto, Ubisoft Kiev and Ubisoft Shanghai. When asked about whether \"Far Cry 4\" would feature standalone content like \"Far Cry 3\" with \"\", creative director Alex Hutchinson declared that a sequel to the game would not be happening, however they are planning something that can \"surprise\" players. On January 5, 2015, Ubisoft released a survey and asked players about their favorite \"Far Cry\" setting. The survey includes themes like vampires, zombies, dinosaurs, a post-apocalyptic world, historical warfare and modern days locations like Peru and Alaska.\n\nIt was first added to the Steam database under its codename \"Far Cry Sigma\" on October 2, 2015, causing confusion for both fans and press. However, on October 6, 2015, Ubisoft held a stream revealing their next project. It was announced a day later, though it was leaked by IGN Turkey several hours before the official announcement. The game's creative director is Jean-Christophe Guyot, who has worked on several \"Prince of Persia\" games. On December 3, 2015, creative director Maxime Béland stated that \"Far Cry Primal\" was as big as \"Far Cry 4\". The game does not feature a multiplayer mode. The decision was made during the early stages of the game's development as they wanted to focus on the game's core gameplay instead.\n\n\"Far Cry Primal\" released for the PlayStation 4 and Xbox One on February 23, 2016. The Microsoft Windows version was released shortly afterwards on March 1, 2016. The game has two different special editions, both of which cost more than the base game. The \"Collector's Edition\" features additional physical items such as a steelbook, a collector's book, a map of Oros, the game's original soundtrack and a Wenja phrasebook, which serves as a guide for players to learn the language used in the game. The \"Digital Apex Edition\", which can only be purchased digitally, and the \"Collector's Edition\" contain digital content such as extra in-game missions, weapons and additional packs.\n\nThe characters speak a fictional language with a defined syntax and structure. It is based on the reconstructed Proto-Indo-European language, which is the theorized common ancestor of most modern European languages and some languages in Asia and the Middle East. Linguists constructed three dialects - Wenja, Udam and Izila - one for each of the three featured tribes. Each dialect was designed to have a distinct sound conveying the culture of its tribe. Lead writer Kevin Shortt said that players are able to understand Wenja vocabulary, and finish the game with \"a real sense of it\". Mexican vocalist and composer Malukah was among the voice actors providing war cries and other vocal effects to the game.\n\nThe soundtrack of \"Far Cry Primal\" was created with percussion instruments, stone, clay, and an Aztec death whistle. The soundtrack was composed by Jason Graves. The tribes the player encounters have their own distinct music profiles. The Wenja tribe features ram's horn and solo flute, while the Izilia features Aztec death whistles, female vocals and ritualistic percussion.\n\nAccording to the review aggregator Metacritic, the Microsoft Windows version of \"Far Cry Primal\" received \"mixed or average\" reviews from critics upon release, while the PlayStation 4 and Xbox One versions received \"generally favorable\" reviews.\n\nDestructoid's Kyle MacGregor spoke positively about how the game depicts violence towards animals and the survival aspects in general, saying that they were designed with realism in mind. He also felt that the animal companion mechanic was one of the game's strongest elements, saying that it has \"limitless potential\". In regard to the choice of setting, he felt it was a welcome and natural evolution in the \"Far Cry\" series. However, he described the story as being familiar and predictable and said that, even with the drastic change of setting, the \"Far Cry\" formula isn't as innovative as it once was.\n\nMatt Buchholtz of Electronic Gaming Monthly wrote, \"The graphics are stunning—Ubisoft has truly mastered facial animations and lighting effects.\" He added, \"The game feels like a full-priced reskin of \"Far Cry 4\", without the engaging storyline\", finishing with, \"\"Far Cry Primal\" really wants you to know that there are tons of things you can do in its prehistoric, open world. Unfortunately, you may not want to do any of them.\"\n\nJeff Cork from Game Informer praised the setting for allowing for gameplay and story elements with more realism, specifically in regard to the protagonist not being a stereotype young male who inexplicably has advanced combat knowledge. He called the visuals and world design \"beautiful\", and said that the decision to use a primitive language made specifically for the game was \"effective\". Lastly, Cork wrote: \"Players who associate \"Far Cry\" with explosions and massive gunfights might find the setting disappointing, but it's one of my favorite entries in the series yet.\"\n\nMatt Utley of Game Revolution called \"Far Cry Primal\" a \"breath of fresh air for both the franchise and first-person action games in general\". He praised the decision to remove guns and motorized vehicles for enabling more dynamic gameplay, called the graphics \"lush\" and \"evocative\", and, like others, commended the bold setting change. Utley's critiques were minor; he disliked some aspects of the control scheme, found that the quieter moments of the game were drowned-out by aggressive enemies, and felt that not enough improvements and fixes were made to the basic \"Far Cry\" formula.\n\nMike Mahardy of GameSpot gave the game a mostly positive review, calling the setting its greatest strength. He praised the open world for being \"cohesive\" and \"foreboding\", enjoyed the \"tense\" focus on survival, and called the beast-taming mechanics \"creative\". Mahardy did feel as though there was a limited amount of weapons given to the player and disliked some of the gameplay for being \"repetitive\".\n\nJoe Skrebels from GamesRadar was more critical of the game, summarizing his thoughts with: \"\"Primal\" takes the great structure of the \"Far Cry\" series, but little of its character. No clear goal and a limited arsenal end up making this feel a little prehistoric itself.\" Skrebels too praised the taming mechanic and the open world design.\n\nLuke Reilly of IGN summarized his review with: \"\"Far Cry Primal\" comes to the table with a quiver of neat ideas but it forgot to bring much of a story with it.\" Reilly thought the game's strongest aspects were created by its twist on the series' formula, highlighting the scavenging elements and the animal-taming mechanics. However, Reilly felt the drastic change for the series wasn't without its flaws, saying that the characters, quests, and overall story were a step back from the memorable moments of the previous games.\n\nPolygon's Justin McElroy particularly praised the open world environment, calling it the \"most immersive\" in the series. He summarized his review by writing: \"I don't want every \"Far Cry\" game from here on to trade bullets for arrows, motorcycles for tigers, but \"Primal\" is an invigorating example of how to re-imagine a tired franchise while keeping its soul intact.\"\n\nEven though he described the game as being \"very fun\" and felt that the decision to develop a spin-off-type game in the series was a great one, Simon Miller from VideoGamer.com recognized that \"Far Cry Primal\" \"doesn't do anything drastically new\" for the series. He too praised the animal taming mechanic and the visuals.\n\nThe game's retail version was the best selling game in its week of release in the UK, debuting at No. 1 in the UK retail software sales chart. The game was also the best-selling game in the United States in February 2016. According to Ubisoft, the game performed better than they had expected, and that its release became the biggest launch of a game in February.\n"}
{"id": "3139220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3139220", "title": "Gyula Illyés", "text": "Gyula Illyés\n\nGyula Illyés (2 November 1902  – 15 April 1983) was a Hungarian poet and novelist. He was one of the so-called \"népi\" (\"from the people\") writers, named so because they aimed to show – propelled by strong sociological interest and left-wing convictions – the disadvantageous conditions of their native land.\n\nHe was born the son of János Illés (1870 – 1931) and Ida Kállay (1878 – 1931) in Tolna County. His father belonged to a rich gentry family, but his mother came from the most deprived segment of society, agricultural servants. He was their third child and spent his first nine years at his birthplace, where he finished his primary school years (1908 – 1912) and when his family moved to Simontornya, he continued his education at grammar schools there and Dombóvár (1913 – 1914) and Bonyhád (1914 – 1916). In 1926 his parents separated, and he moved to the capital with his mother. He continued senior high school at the Budapest Munkácsy Mihály street gimnazium (1916 – 1917) and at the Izabella Street Kereskedelmi school (1917 – 1921). In 1921 he graduated. From 1918 to 1919 he took part in various left-wing students and youth workers' movements, being present at an attack on Romanian forces in Szolnok during the Hungarian Republic of Councils. On 22 December 1920 his first poem was published () anonymously in the Social Democrat daily \"Népszava\".\n\nHe began studies at the Budapest University's department of languages studying Hungarian and French. Due to illegal political activities he was forced to escape to Vienna in December that year, moving on to Berlin and the Rhineland in 1922.\n\nIllyés arrived in Paris in April that year. He did numerous jobs including as a bookbinder. For a while he studied at the Sorbonne and published his first articles and translations in 1923. He became friends with the French surrealists, among them Paul Éluard, Tristan Tzara and René Crevel (each visited him later in Hungary).\n\nIllyés returned to homeland in 1926 following an amnesty. His main forums of activity became and , periodicals edited by the avant-garde writer and poet Lajos Kassák.\n\nIllyés worked for the Phoenix Insurance company from 1927 to 1936, and after its bankruptcy he became press referent to the Hungarian National Bank on French agricultural matters (1937 – 1944).\n\nHis first critical writing appeared in November 1927 in the review (\"Occident\") – the most distinguished literary magazine of the time –which from 1928 regularly featured his articles and poems. His first book () was also published by \"Nyugat\" in 1928.\n\nHe made friends with Attila József, László Németh, Lőrinc Szabó , János Kodolányi and Péter Veres, at the time the leading talents of his generation.\n\nIn 1931 he married his first wife, Irma Juvancz, a physical education teacher, whom he later divorced.\n\nIllyés was invited to the Soviet Union in 1934 to take part in the international writers congress where he met André Malraux and Boris Pasternak. From that year he also participated in the editorial work of the review \"Válasz\" (Argument), the forum of the young \"népi\" writers.\n\nHe was one of the founding members of the (1937 – 1939), a left-wing and anti-fascist movement. Subsequently, he was invited to the editorial board of \"Nyugat\" and became a close friend of its editor, the post-symbolist poet and writer Mihály Babits.\n\nDuring World War II, Illyés was nominated editor-in-chief of \"Nyugat\" following the death of Mihály Babits. Having been refused by the authorities to use the name \"Nyugat\" for the magazine, he continued to publish the review under a different title: \"Magyar Csillag\" (\"Hungarian Star\").\n\nIn 1939 he married Flóra Kozmuta, with whom he had a daughter, Mária.\n\nAfter the Nazi invasion of Hungary in March 1944, Illyés had to go into hiding along with László Németh, both being labelled anti-Nazi intellectuals.\n\nHe became a member of the parliament of Hungary in 1945, and one of the leaders of the left-wing National Peasant Party. He withdrew from public life in 1947 as the communist takeover of government was approaching. He was a member of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences from 1945 to 1949. He directed and edited the review from 1946 to 1949.\n\nAlthough Gyula lived a reclusive life in Tihany and Budapest until the early 1960s, his poetry, prose, theater plays and essays continued to impact Hungarian public and literary life.\n\nOn 2 November 1956 he published his famous poem of the Hungarian revolution of 1956, which was not allowed to be republished in Hungary until 1986: \"One sentence on tyranny\" is a long poem written in 1950.\n\nFrom the early 1960s he continued to express political, social and moral issues all through his work, but the main themes of his poetry remain love, life and death. Active until his death in April 1983, he published poems, dramas, essays and parts of his diary. His work as a translator is also considerable.\n\nHe translated from many languages, French being the most important, but – with the help of rough translations – his volume of translations from the ancient Chinese classics remains a milestone.\n\nIn his poetry, Illyés was a spokesman for the oppressed peasant class. Typical is \"People of the puszta\", , 1936. His later work is marked by a more open universality, as well as an appeal for national and individual liberty.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20790125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20790125", "title": "History of smallpox", "text": "History of smallpox\n\nThe history of smallpox extends into pre-history, the disease likely emerged in human populations about 10,000 BC. The earliest credible evidence of smallpox is found in the Egyptian mummies of people who died some 3000 years ago. Smallpox has had a major impact on world history, not least because indigenous populations of regions where smallpox was non-native, such as the Americas and Australia, were rapidly decimated and weakened by smallpox (along with other introduced diseases) during periods of initial foreign contact, which helped pave the way for conquest and colonization. During the 18th century the disease killed an estimated 400,000 Europeans each year, including five reigning monarchs, and was responsible for a third of all blindness. Between 20 and 60% of all those infected—and over 80% of infected children—died from the disease.\n\nDuring the 20th century, it is estimated that smallpox was responsible for 300–500 million deaths. In the early 1950s an estimated 50 million cases of smallpox occurred in the world each year. As recently as 1967, the World Health Organization estimated that 15 million people contracted the disease and that two million died in that year. After successful vaccination campaigns throughout the 19th and 20th centuries, the WHO certified the global eradication of smallpox in December 1979. Smallpox is one of two infectious diseases to have been eradicated, the other being rinderpest, which was declared eradicated in 2011.\n\nIt has been suggested that smallpox was a major component of the Plague of Athens that occurred in 430 BCE, during the Peloponnesian Wars, and was described by Thucydides. Galen's description of the Antonine Plague, which swept through the Roman Empire in 165–180, indicates that it was probably caused by smallpox. Returning soldiers brought the disease home with them to Syria and Italy, where it raged for fifteen years and greatly weakened the Roman empire, killing up to one-third of the population in some areas. Total deaths have been estimated at 5 million. A second major outbreak of disease in the Roman Empire, known as the Plague of Cyprian (251–266), was also either smallpox or measles. Although some historians believe that many historical epidemics and pandemics were early outbreaks of smallpox, contemporary records are not detailed enough to make a definite diagnosis.\n\nMost of the details about the epidemics are lost, probably due to the scarcity of surviving written records from the Early Middle Ages. The first incontrovertible description of smallpox in Western Europe occurred in 581, when Bishop Gregory of Tours provided an eyewitness account describing the characteristic symptoms of smallpox. Waves of epidemics wiped out large rural populations. The establishment of the disease in Europe was of special importance, for this served as the endemic reservoir from which smallpox spread to other parts of the world, as an accompaniment of successive waves of European exploration and colonization.\n\nAround 400 AD, an Indian medical book recorded a disease marked by pustules and boils, saying \"the pustules are red, yellow, and white and they are accompanied by burning pain … the skin seems studded with grains of rice.\" The Indian epidemic was thought to be punishment from a god, and the survivors created a goddess, Sitala, as the anthropomorphic personification of the disease. Smallpox was thus regarded as possession by Sitala. In Hinduism the goddess Sitala both causes and cures high fever, rashes, hot flashes and pustules. All of these are symptoms of smallpox.\n\nIn Japan, the epidemic of 735–737 is believed to have killed as much as one-third of the population.\n\nThe clearest description of smallpox from pre-modern times was given in the 9th century by the Persian physician, Muhammad ibn Zakariya ar-Razi, known in the West as \"Rhazes\", who was the first to differentiate smallpox from measles and chickenpox in his \"Kitab fi al-jadari wa-al-hasbah\" (\"The Book of Smallpox and Measles\").\n\nSmallpox was a leading cause of death in the 18th century. Every seventh child born in Russia died from smallpox. It killed an estimated 400,000 Europeans each year in the 18th century, including five reigning European monarchs. Most people became infected during their lifetimes, and about 30% of people infected with smallpox died from the disease, presenting a severe selection pressure on the resistant survivors.\n\nIn northern Japan, Ainu population decreased drastically in the 19th century, due in large part to infectious diseases like smallpox brought by Japanese settlers pouring into Hokkaido.\n\nThe Franco-Prussian War triggered a smallpox pandemic of 1870–1875 that claimed 500,000 lives; while vaccination was mandatory in the Prussian army, many French soldiers were not vaccinated. Smallpox outbreaks among French prisoners of war spread to the German civilian population and other parts of Europe. Ultimately, this public health disaster inspired stricter legislation in Germany and England, though not in France.\n\nIn 1849 nearly 13% of all Calcutta deaths were due to smallpox. Between 1868 and 1907, there were approximately 4.7 million deaths from smallpox in India. Between 1926 and 1930, there were 979,738 cases of smallpox with a mortality of 42.3%.\n\nOne of the oldest records of what may have been an encounter with smallpox in Africa is associated with the elephant war circa AD 568, when after fighting a siege in Mecca, Ethiopian troops contracted the disease which they carried with them back to Africa. Arab ports in Coastal towns in Africa likely contributed to the importation of smallpox into Africa, as early as the 13th century, though no records exist until the 16th century. Upon invasion of these towns by tribes in the interior of Africa, a severe epidemic affected all African inhabitants while sparing the Portuguese. Densely populated areas of Africa connected to the Mediterranean, Nubia and Ethiopia by caravan route likely were affected by smallpox since the 11th century, though written records do not appear until the introduction of the slave trade in the 16th century.\n\nThe slave trade continued to spread smallpox to the entire continent, with raiders pushing farther inland along caravan routes in search of slaves. The effects of smallpox could be seen along caravan routes, and those who were not affected along the routes were still likely to become infected either waiting to board or on board ships.\n\nSmallpox in Angola was likely introduced shortly after Portuguese settlement of the area in 1484. The 1864 epidemic killed 25,000 inhabitants, one third of the total population in that same area. In 1713, an outbreak occurred in South Africa after a ship from India docked at Cape Town, bringing infected laundry ashore. Many of the white population suffered, and whole clans of the Hottentot tribe were wiped out. A second outbreak occurred in 1755, again affecting both the white population and the Hottentots. The Hottentots spread the disease further among their tribes, and completely eradicating several tribes, all the way to the Kalahari desert. A third outbreak in 1767 similarly affected the Hottentots and Bantu tribes, but the whites settlers, having practiced variolation, were not affected nearly to the extent that they were in the first two outbreaks. Continued slaving operations brought smallpox to Cape Town again in 1840, taking the lives of 2500 people, and then to Uganda in the 1840s. It is estimated that up to eighty percent of the Griqua tribe was exterminated by smallpox in 1831, and whole tribes were being wiped out in Kenya up until 1899. Along the Zaire river basin were areas where no one survived the epidemics, leaving the land devoid of human life. In Ethiopia and the Sudan, six epidemics are recorded for the 19th century: 1811–1813, 1838–1839, 1865–1866, 1878–1879, 1885–1887, and 1889–1890.\nAfter first contacts with Europeans and Africans, some believe that the death of 90–95% of the native population of the New World was caused by Old World diseases. It is suspected that smallpox was the chief culprit and responsible for killing nearly all of the native inhabitants of the Americas. For more than 200 years, this disease affected all new world populations, mostly without intentional European transmission, from contact in the early 16th century to until possibly as late as the French and Indian Wars (1754–1767).\n\nIn 1519 Hernán Cortés landed on the shores of what is now Mexico and was then the Aztec empire. In 1520 another group of Spanish arrived in Mexico from Hispaniola, bringing with them the smallpox which had already been ravaging that island for two years. When Cortés heard about the other group, he went and defeated them. In this contact, one of Cortés's men contracted the disease. When Cortés returned to Tenochtitlan, he brought the disease with him.\n\nSoon, the Aztecs rose up in rebellion against Cortés and his men. Outnumbered, the Spanish were forced to flee. In the fighting, the Spanish soldier carrying smallpox died. Cortés would not return to the capital until August 1521. In the meantime smallpox devastated the Aztec population. It killed most of the Aztec army and 25% of the overall population. The Spanish Franciscan Motolinia left this description: \"As the Indians did not know the remedy of the disease…they died in heaps, like bedbugs. In many places it happened that everyone in a house died and, as it was impossible to bury the great number of dead, they pulled down the houses over them so that their homes become their tombs.\" On Cortés's return, he found the Aztec army’s chain of command in ruins. The soldiers who still lived were weak from the disease. Cortés then easily defeated the Aztecs and entered Tenochtitlán. The Spaniards said that they could not walk through the streets without stepping on the bodies of smallpox victims.\n\nThe effects of smallpox on Tahuantinsuyu (or the Inca empire) were even more devastating. Beginning in Colombia, smallpox spread rapidly before the Spanish invaders first arrived in the empire. The spread was probably aided by the efficient Inca road system. Within months, the disease had killed the Incan Emperor Huayna Capac, his successor, and most of the other leaders. Two of his surviving sons warred for power and, after a bloody and costly war, Atahualpa become the new emperor. As Atahualpa was returning to the capital Cuzco, Francisco Pizarro arrived and through a series of deceits captured the young leader and his best general. Within a few years smallpox claimed between 60% and 90% of the Inca population, with other waves of European disease weakening them further. A handful of historians argue that a disease called Bartonellosis might have been responsible for some outbreaks of illness, but this opinion is in the scholarly minority. The effects of Bartonellosis were depicted in the ceramics of the Moche people of ancient Peru.\n\nEven after the two largest empires of the Americas were defeated by the virus and disease, smallpox continued its march of death. In 1561, smallpox reached Chile by sea, when a ship carrying the new governor Francisco de Villagra landed at La Serena. Chile had previously been isolated by the Atacama Desert and Andes Mountains from Peru, but at the end of 1561 and in early 1562, it ravaged the Chilean native population. Chronicles and records of the time left no accurate data on mortality but more recent estimates are that the natives lost 20 to 25 percent of their population. The Spanish historian Marmolejo said that gold mines had to shut down when all their Indian labor died. Mapuche fighting Spain in Araucanía regarded the epidemic as a magical attempt by Francisco de Villagra to exterminate them because he could not defeat them in the Arauco War.\n\nIn 1633 in Plymouth, Massachusetts, the Native Americans were struck by the virus. As it had done elsewhere, the virus wiped out entire population groups of Native Americans. It reached Mohawks in 1634, the Lake Ontario area in 1636, and the lands of the Iroquois by 1679. During the siege of Fort Pitt, as recorded in his journal by sundries trader and militia Captain, William Trent, on June 24, 1763, dignitaries from the Delaware tribe met with Fort Pitt officials, warned them of \"great numbers of Indians\" coming to attack the fort, and pleaded with them to leave the fort while there was still time. The commander of the fort refused to abandon the fort. Instead, the British gave as gifts two blankets, one silk handkerchief and one linen from the smallpox hospital, to two Delaware Indian delegates. During and after Pontiac's War smallpox killed between 400,000-500,000 (possibly up to 1.5 million) Native Americans.\n\nDuring the 1770s, smallpox killed at least 30% of the West Coast Native Americans. The smallpox epidemic of 1780–1782 brought devastation and drastic depopulation among the Plains Indians. This epidemic is a classic instance of European immunity and non-European vulnerability. It is probable that the Indians contracted the disease from the ‘Snake Indians’ on the Mississippi. From there it spread eastward and northward to the Saskatchewan River. According to David Thompson’s account, the first to hear of the disease were fur traders from the Hudson’s House on October 15, 1781. A week later, reports were made to William Walker and William Tomison, who were in charge of the Hudson and Cumberland Hudson’s Bay Company posts. By February, the disease spread as far as the Basquia Tribe. Smallpox attacked whole tribes and left few survivors. E. E. Rich described the epidemic by saying that “Families lay unburied in their tents while the few survivors fled, to spread the disease.” After reading Tomison’s journals, Houston and Houston calculated that, of the Indians who traded at the Hudson and Cumberland houses, 95% died of smallpox. Paul Hackett adds to the mortality numbers suggesting that perhaps up to one half to three quarters of the Ojibway situated west of the Grand Portage died from the disease. The Cree also suffered a casualty rate of approximately 75% with similar effects found in the Lowland Cree. By 1785 the Sioux Indians of the great plains had also been affected. Not only did smallpox devastate the Indian population, it did so in an unforgiving way. William Walker described the epidemic stating that “the Indians [are] all Dying by this Distemper … lying Dead about the Barren Ground like a rotten sheep, their Tents left standing & the Wild beast Devouring them.”\n\nA particularly virulent sequence of smallpox outbreaks took place in Boston, Massachusetts. From 1636 to 1698, Boston endured six epidemics. In 1721, the most severe epidemic occurred. The entire population fled the city, bringing the virus to the rest of the Thirteen Colonies.\n\nIn the late 1770s, during the American Revolutionary War, smallpox returned once more and killed thousands. Peter Kalm in his \"Travels in North America\", described how in that period, the dying Indian villages became overrun with wolves feasting on the corpses and weakened survivors. Smallpox was also used as a weapon by the British.\n\nIn 1799, the physician Valentine Seaman administered the first smallpox vaccine in the United States. He gave his children a smallpox vaccination using a serum acquired from Edward Jenner, the British physician who invented the vaccine from fluid taken from cowpox lesions. Though vaccines were misunderstood and mistrusted at the time, Seaman advocated their use and, in 1802, coordinated a free vaccination program for the poor in New York City.\n\nBy 1832, the federal government of the United States established a smallpox vaccination program for Native Americans.\n\nIn 1900 starting in New York City, smallpox reared its head once again and started a sociopolitical battle with lines drawn between the rich and poor, white and black. In populations of railroad and migrant workers who traveled from city to city the disease had reached an endemic low boil. This fact did not bother the government at the time, nor did it spur them to action. Despite the general acceptance of the germ theory of disease, pioneered by John Snow in 1849, smallpox was still thought to be mostly a malady that followed the less-distinct guidelines of a \"filth\" disease, and therefore would only affect the \"lower classes\".\n\nThe last major smallpox epidemic in the United States occurred in Boston, Massachusetts throughout a three-year period, between 1901-1903. During this three-year period, 1596 cases of the disease occurred throughout the city. Of those cases, nearly 300 people died. As a whole, the epidemic had a 17% fatality rate.\n\nThose who were infected with the disease were detained in quarantine facilities in the hopes of protecting others from getting sick. These quarantine facilities, or pesthouses, were mostly located on Southampton Street. As the outbreak worsened, men were also moved to hospitals on Gallop’s Island. Women and children were primarily sent to Southampton Street. Smallpox patients were not allowed in regular hospital facilities throughout the city, for fear the sickness would spread among the already sick.\n\nA reflection of the previous outbreak that occurred in New York, the poor and homeless were blamed for the sickness's spread. In response to this belief, the city instructed teams of physicians to vaccinate anyone living in inexpensive housing.\n\nIn an effort to control the outbreak, the Boston Board of Health began voluntary vaccination programs. Individuals could receive free vaccines at their\nwork places or at different stations set up throughout the city. By the end 1901, some 40,000 of the city’s residents had received a smallpox vaccine. However, despite the city's efforts, the epidemic continued to grow. In January 1902, a door-to-door vaccination program was initiated. Health officials were instructed to compel individuals to receive vaccination, pay a $5 fine, or be faced with 15 days in prison. This door-to-door program was met by some resistance as some individuals feared the vaccines to be unsafe and ineffective. Others felt compulsory vaccination in itself was a problem that violated an individual's civil liberties.\n\nThis program of compulsory vaccination eventually led to the famous Jacobson v. Massachusetts case. The case was the result of a Cambridge resident's refusal to be vaccinated. Henning Jacobsen, a Swedish immigrant, refused vaccination out of fear it would cause him illness. He claimed a previous smallpox vaccine had made him sick as a child. Rather than pay the five dollar fine, he challenged the state's authority on forcing people to receive vaccination. His case was lost at the state level, but Jacobson appealed the ruling, and so, the case was taken up by the Supreme Court. In 1905 the Supreme Court upheld the Massachusetts law: it was ruled Jacobson could not refuse the mandatory vaccination.\n\nIn Canada, between 1702 and 1703, nearly a quarter of the population of Quebec city died due to a smallpox epidemic.\n\nThere is evidence that smallpox reached the Philippine islands from the 4th century CE onwards – linked possibly to contact between South East Asians and Indian traders.\n\nDuring the 18th century, there were many major outbreaks of smallpox, driven possibly by increasing contact with European colonists and traders. There were epidemics, for instance, in the Sultanate of Banjar (South Kalimantan), in 1734, 1750–51, 1764–65 and 1778–79; in the Sultanate of Tidore (Moluccas ) during the 1720s, and in southern Sumatra during the 1750s, the 1770s and in 1786.\n\nSmallpox is exogenous to Australia. The first recorded outbreak, in 1789, devastated the Aboriginal population; while the extent of this outbreak is disputed, some sources claim that it killed about 50% of coastal Aboriginal populations on the east coast. There is an ongoing historical debate concerning two rival and irreconcilable theories about how the disease first entered the continent. The central hypotheses of these theories suggest that smallpox was transmitted to indigenous Australians by either:\n\nIn 1914, Dr J. H. L. Cumpston, director of the Australian Quarantine Service tentatively put forward the hypothesis that smallpox arrived with British settlers. Cumpston's theory was most forcefully reiterated by the economic historian Noel Butlin, in his book \"Our Original Aggression\" (1983). Likewise David Day, in \"Claiming a Continent: A New History of Australia\" (2001), suggested that members of Sydney's garrison of Royal Marines may have attempted to use smallpox as a biological weapon in 1789. However, in 2002, historian John Connor stated that Day's theory was \"unsustainable\". That same year, theories that smallpox was introduced with settlers, deliberately or otherwise, were contested in a full-length book by historian Judy Campbell: \"Invisible Invaders: Smallpox and Other Diseases in Aboriginal Australia 1780-1880\" (2002). Campbell consulted, during the writing of her book, Frank Fenner, who had overseen the final stages of a successful campaign by the World Health Organization (WHO) to eradicate smallpox. Campbell argued that scientific evidence concerning the viability of variolous matter (used for inoculation) did not support the possibility of the disease being brought to Australia on the long voyage from Europe. Campbell also noted that there was no evidence of Aborigines ever having been exposed to the variolous matter, merely speculation that they may have been. Later authors, such as Christopher Warren, and Craig Mear continued to argue that smallpox emanated from the importation of variolous matter on the First Fleet. Warren (2007) suggested that Campbell had erred in assuming that high temperatures would have sterilised the British supply of smallpox. H. A. Willis (2010), in a survey of the literature discussed above, endorsed Campbell's argument. In response, Warren (2011) suggested that Willis had not taken into account research on how heat affects the smallpox virus, cited by the WHO. Willis (2011) replied that his position was supported by a closer reading of Frank Fenner’s report to the WHO (1988) and invited readers to consult that report online.\n\nThe rival hypothesis, that the 1789 outbreak was introduced to Australia by visitors from Makassar, came to prominence in 2002, with Judy Campbell's book \"Invisible Invaders\". Campbell expanded upon the opinion of C. C. Macknight (1986), an authority on the interaction between indigenous Australians and Makassans. Citing the scientific opinion of Fenner (who wrote the foreword to her book) and historical documents, Campbell argued that the 1789 outbreak was introduced to Australia by Makassans, from where it spread overland. Nevertheless, Michael Bennett in a 2009 article in \"Bulletin of the History of Medicine\", argued that imported \"variolous matter\" may have been the source of the 1789 epidemic in Australia. In 2011, Macknight re-entered the debate, declaring: “The overwhelming probability must be that it [smallpox] was introduced, like the later epidemics, by [Makassan] trepangers on the north coast and spread across the continent to arrive in Sydney quite independently of the new settlement there.” Warren (2013) disputed this, on the grounds that: there was no suitable smallpox in Makassar before 1789; there were no trade routes suitable for transmission to Port Jackson; the theory of a Makassan source for smallpox in 1789 was contradicted by Aboriginal oral tradition, and; the earliest point at which there was evidence of smallpox entering Australia with Makassan visitors was around 1824.\n\nAnother major outbreak was observed in 1828–30, near Bathurst, New South Wales. A third epidemic occurred in the Northern Territory and northern Western Australia from the mid-1860s, until at least 1870.\n\nElsewhere in the Pacific, smallpox killed many indigenous Polynesians. Nevertheless, Alfred Crosby, in his major work, \"\" (1986) showed that in 1840 a ship with smallpox on it was successfully quarantined, preventing an epidemic amongst Māori of New Zealand. The only major outbreak in New Zealand was a 1913 epidemic, which affected Māori in northern New Zealand and nearly wiped out the Rapa Nui of Easter Island (\"Rapa Nui\"), was reported by Te Rangi Hiroa (Dr Peter Buck) to a medical congress in Melbourne in 1914.\n\nThe whaler ship \"Delta\" brought smallpox to the Micronesian island of Pohnpei on 28 February 1854. The Pohnpeians reacted by first feasting their offended spirits and then resorted hiding. The disease eventually wiped out more than half the island's population. The deaths of chiefs threw Pohnpeian society into disarray, and the people started blaming the God of the Christian missionaries. The Christian missionaries themselves saw the epidemic as God's punishment for the people and offered the natives inoculations, though often withheld such treatment from the priests. The epidemic abated in October 1854.\n\nOne viewpoint is that smallpox emerged in 1588 AD and the earlier reported cases were incorrectly identified as smallpox.\n\nEarly in history, it was observed that those who had contracted smallpox once were never struck by the disease again. Thought to have been discovered by accident, it became known that those who contracted smallpox through a break in the skin in which smallpox matter was inserted received a less severe reaction than those who contracted it naturally. This realization led to the practice of purposely infecting people with matter from smallpox scabs in order to protect them later from a more severe reaction. This practice, known today as variolation, was first practiced in China in the 10th century. Methods of carrying out the procedure varied depending upon location. Variolation was the sole method of protection against smallpox other than quarantine until Jenner's discovery of the inoculating abilities of cowpox against the smallpox virus in 1796. Efforts to protect populations against smallpox by way of vaccination followed for centuries after Jenner's discovery. Smallpox has since been completely eradicated since 1979, because of the mass vaccination efforts of the World Health Organization.\n\nThe word variolation is synonymous with inoculation, insertion, en-grafting, or transplantation. The term is used to define insertion of smallpox matter, and distinguishes this procedure from vaccination, where cowpox matter was used to obtain a much milder reaction among patients.\n\nThe practice of variolation (also known as inoculation) first came out of East Asia. First writings documenting variolation in China appear around 1500. Scabs from smallpox victims who had the disease in its mild form would be selected, and the powder was kept close to body temperature by means of keeping it close to the chest, killing the majority of the virus and resulting in a more mild case of smallpox. Scabs were generally used when a month old, but could be used more quickly in hot weather (15–20 days), and slower in winter (50 days). The process was carried out by taking eight smallpox scabs and crushing them in a mortar with two grains of \"Uvularia grandiflora\" in a mortar. The powder was administered nasally through a silver tube that was curved at its point, through the right nostril for boys and the left nostril for girls. A week after the procedure, those variolated would start to produce symptoms of smallpox, and recovery was guaranteed. In India, where the European colonizers came across variolation in the 17th century, a large, sharp needle was dipped into the pus collected from mature smallpox sores. Several punctures with this needle were made either below the deltoid muscle or in the forehead, and then were covered with a paste made from boiled rice. Variolation spread farther from India to other countries in south west Asia, and then to the Balkans.\n\nIn 1713, Lady Mary Wortley Montagu's brother died of smallpox; she too contracted the virus two years later at the age of twenty-six, leaving her badly scarred. When her husband was made ambassador to Ottoman Empire, she accompanied him to Constantinople. It was here that Lady Mary first came upon variolation. Two Greek women made it their business to engraft people with pox that left them un-scarred and unable to catch the pox again. In a letter, she wrote that she intended to have her own son undergo the process and would try to bring variolation into fashion in England. Her son underwent the procedure, which was performed by Charles Maitland, and survived with no ill effects. When an epidemic broke out in London following her return, Lady Mary wanted to protect her daughter from the virus by having her variolated as well. Maitland performed the procedure, which was a success. The story made it to the newspapers and was a topic for discussion in London salons. Princess Caroline of Wales wanted her children variolated as well but first wanted more validation of the operation. She had both an orphanage and several convicts variolated before she was convinced. When the operation, performed by the King's surgeon, Claudius Amyand, and overseen by Maitland, was a success, variolation got the royal seal of approval and the practice became widespread. When the practice of variolation set off local epidemics and caused death in two cases, public reaction was severe. Minister Edmund Massey, in 1772, called variolation dangerous and sinful, saying that people should handle the disease as the biblical figure Job did with his own tribulations, without interfering with God's test for mankind. Lady Mary still worked at promoting variolation but its practice waned until 1743.\n\nRobert and Daniel Sutton further revived the practice of variolation in England by advertising their perfect variolation record, maintained by selecting patients who were healthy when variolated and were cared for during the procedure in the Sutton's own hygienic hospital. Other changes that the Suttons made to carrying out the variolation process include reducing and later abolishing the preparatory period before variolation was carried out, making more shallow incisions to distribute the smallpox matter, using smallpox matter collected on the fourth day of the disease, where the pus taken was still clear, and recommending that those inoculated get fresh air during recovery. The introduction of the shallower incision reduced both complications associated with the procedure and the severity of the reaction. The prescription of fresh air caused controversy about Sutton's method and how effective it was in reality when those inoculated could walk about and spread the disease to those that had never before experienced smallpox. It was the Suttons who introduced the idea of mass variolation of an area when an epidemic broke out as means of protection to the inhabitants in that location.\n\nNews of variolation spread to the royal families of Europe. Several royal families had themselves variolated by English physicians claiming to be specialists. Recipients include the family of Louis XV following his own death of smallpox, and Catherine the Great, whose husband had been horribly disfigured by the disease. Catherine the Great was variolated by Thomas Dimsdale, who followed Sutton's method of inoculation.\nIn France, the practice was sanctioned until an epidemic was traced back to an inoculation. After this instance, variolation was banned within city limits. These conditions caused physicians to move just outside the cities and continue to practice variolation in the suburbs.\n\nEdward Jenner was variolated in 1756 at age eight in an inoculation barn in Wotton-under-Edge, England. At this time, in preparation for variolation children were bled repeatedly and were given very little to eat and only given a diet drink made to sweeten their blood. This greatly weakened the children before the actual procedure was given. Jenner's own inoculation was administered by a Mr. Holbrow, an apothecary. The procedure involved scratching the arm with the tip of a knife, placing several smallpox scabs in the cuts and then bandaging the arm. After receiving the procedure, the children stayed in the barn for several weeks to recover. First symptoms occurred after one week and usually cleared up three days later. On average, it took a month to fully recover from the encounter with smallpox combined with weakness from the preceding starvation.\n\nAt the age of thirteen, Jenner was sent to study medicine in Sodbury with Daniel Ludlow, a surgeon and apothecary, from 1762 to 1770 who had a strong sense of cleanliness which Jenner learned from him. During his apprenticeship, Jenner heard that upon contracting cowpox, the recipient became immune to smallpox for the remainder of their life. However, this theory was dismissed because of several cases proving that the opposite was true.\n\nAfter learning all he could from Ludlow, Jenner apprenticed with John Hunter in London from 1770–1773. Hunter was a correspondent of Ludlow’s, and it is likely that Ludlow recommended Jenner to apprentice with Hunter. Hunter believed in deviating from the accepted treatment and trying new methods if the traditional methods failed. This was considered unconventional medicine for the time period and had a pivotal role in Jenner's development as a scientist.\n\nAfter two years of apprenticeship, Jenner moved back to his hometown of Berkeley, where he quickly gained the respect of both his patients and other medical professionals for his work as a physician. It was during this time that Jenner revisited the connection between cowpox and smallpox. He began investigating dairy farms in the Gloucestershire area looking for cowpox. This research was slow going as Jenner often had to wait months or even years before cases of cowpox would again return to the Gloucestershire area. During his study, he found that cowpox was actually several diseases that were similar in nature but were distinguishable through slight differences, and that not all versions had the capacity to make one immune from smallpox upon contraction.\n\nThrough his study, he incorrectly deduced that smallpox and cowpox were all the same disease, simply manifesting themselves differently in different animals, eventually setting back his research and making it difficult to publish his findings. Though Jenner had seen cases of people becoming immune to smallpox after having cowpox, too many exceptions of people still contracting smallpox after having had cowpox were arising. Jenner was missing crucial information which he later discovered in 1796. Jenner hypothesized that in order to become immune to smallpox using cowpox, the matter from the cowpox pustules must be administered at maximum potency; else it was too weak to be effective in creating immunity to smallpox. He deduced that cowpox was most likely to transfer immunity from smallpox if administered at the eighth day of the disease.\n\nOn May 14, 1796, he performed an experiment in which he took pus from a sore of a cowpox infected milkmaid named Sarah Nelmes and applied it to a few small scratches on the arm of an eight-year-old boy who had never before contracted either smallpox or cowpox, named James Phipps. Phipps recovered as expected. Two months later, Jenner repeated the procedure using matter from smallpox, observing no effect. Phipps became the first person to become immune to smallpox without ever actually having the disease. He was variolated many more times over the course of his life to prove his immunity.\n\nWhen the next cowpox epidemic broke out in 1798, Jenner conducted a series of inoculations using cowpox, all of them successful except on his own son Robert. Because his findings were revolutionary and lacked in evidence, the Royal Society (of whom Jenner was a member) refused to publish his findings. Jenner then rode to London and had his book published by Sampson Low’s firm in June 1798 The book was an instant bestseller among the elite in London salons, in the medical establishment and among the ladies and gentlemen of the enlightenment.\n\nKnowledge of the ability of cowpox to provide immunity from smallpox was present in England before Jenner's discovery. In 1774, a cattle dealer named Benjamin Jesty successfully inoculated his wife and three sons using cowpox. This was before Jenner discovered the immunization capabilities of cowpox. However, Jesty simply performed the procedure; he did not take the discovery any further by inoculating his family with smallpox matter to see if there would be a reaction or perform any other trials. Jenner was the first to prove the effectiveness of vaccination with cowpox using experimentation.\n\nBenjamin Franklin, who had lost his own son to smallpox in 1736, made the suggestion to create a pamphlet to distribute to families explaining how to inoculate their children themselves, so as to eliminate cost as the factor in the decision to choose to inoculate children. William Heberden, a friend of Franklin's and an English physician, followed through with Franklin's idea, printing 2000 pamphlets in 1759 which were distributed by Franklin in America.\n\nAn American physician, John Kirkpatrick, upon his visit to London in 1743, told of an instance where variolation stopped an epidemic in Charleston, South Carolina, in 1738, where 800 people were inoculated and only eight deaths occurred. His account of the success of variolation in Charleston helped to play a role in the revival of its practice in London. Kirkpatrick also advocated inoculating patients with matter from the sores of another inoculated person, instead of using matter from the sore of a smallpox victim, a procedure that Maitland had been using since 1722.\n\n"}
{"id": "6259551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6259551", "title": "Homer Brown", "text": "Homer Brown\n\nHomer Brown is a character in the radio sitcom \"The Aldrich Family\".\n\nA good friend of Henry Aldrich, Homer Brown attends Centreville High, the same high school that Henry goes to. Considered somewhat of a dim-wit, Homer is nervous and a food lover. However, he is also fairly dependable, and helps Henry whenever there's a predicament.\n\nOne of the show's later characters, Homer was played by Jack Kelk, and in the final season was played by John Fiedler (who would go on to a well known role as the voice of Piglet in Winnie-the-Pooh), Michael O'Day, and Jack Grimes.\n\n"}
{"id": "13162571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13162571", "title": "How the World Sees America", "text": "How the World Sees America\n\nHow the World Sees America is a video blog run by global correspondent Amar C. Bakshi and sponsored by \"The Washington Post\" and Newsweek Magazine. It features daily articles, which include text and short video clips, about citizens around the world impacted by the United States politically, economically and culturally.\n\nThe project launched on May 15, 2007 in England, and wrapped up in Mexico in March 2008.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21395995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21395995", "title": "Inclusive management", "text": "Inclusive management\n\nInclusive management is a pattern of practices by public managers that facilitate the inclusion of public employees, experts, the public, and politicians in collaboratively addressing public problems or concerns of public interest.\nIn the inclusive management model, managers focus on building the capacity of the public to participate in the policy process. One way this capacity is built is through the structuring and maintenance of relationships by managers. Managers operate in a myriad of relationship structures that are used for making decisions, implementing policy, and identifying public priorities. These relationships give shape, pose constraints, or present opportunities for the way public policy is pursued\n\nThe management component of the compound idea of inclusive management signifies that inclusion is a managed, ongoing project rather than an attainable state. The inclusion component means something different from the commonplace use of inclusion and exclusion to reference the socioeconomic diversity of the participants. The understanding of inclusion in this analysis emphasizes diversity in terms of the necessity of a diversity of perspectives to promote civic discovery in a deliberative setting. Inclusion involves active boundary spanning across differences in perspectives, institutions, issues, and time, which may or may not be founded upon work to integrate socioeconomically diverse participants.\n\nThe inclusion part of the idea is perhaps best encapsulated by the \"50/50 rule\", a term used by public managers in Grand Rapids, Michigan, to invoke a variety of meanings. Sometimes \"50/50\" means that process and outcome are equally important, in other words that the effects of a process on community building are as important as the task completion. Sometimes it means that ideally 50% of the people involved in a process have participated in prior, related processes and 50% are newcomers, such that each policy-making effort acknowledges past conversations or decisions yet remains open to new ideas that may alter the previous consensus. From the perspective of the 50/50 rule, things like process and outcome or task and community are not in a trade-off relationship, and indeed are not even separable. In this context, concluding that participation was done \"for the sake of participation\" rather than to effect the outcome would be a damning critique. Keeping process and outcome, newcomers and old-timers, and past and present in play are ways of creating connections across individuals, groups, interests, and issues. Tasks are accomplished, yet opportunities continue to be open for revising as well as for moving on to the other issues and tasks that emerge or are next in line. This sense of inclusion is part of an ongoing stream of issues and people involved in one process or concern rolling forward into another echoes theorizations of democracy and civic engagement as an ongoing inquiry and never-finished project.\n\nInclusive public management is a newly characterized form of public management following the more traditional forms of public administration, espoused by Woodrow Wilson and political scientists including Frank Goodnow and Charles A. Beard. Analyses of inclusive public management contribute to a stream of practice and research regarding New Public Management popularized by Osborne and Gaebler, particularly recent contributions on reconceptualizing members of the public as partners or coproducers of public services rather than as \"customers\" of government. Inclusive public management describes some practices of participatory democracy, sharing with deliberative democracy an emphasis on participants making decisions through deliberative processes rather than the mere aggregation of individual interests through voting or other mechanisms, the idea being that through deliberative processes that enable communicative rationality and civic discovery, new understandings and resources of public value or the public good may be realized. It intersects with other fields of research and practice on collaborative governance that describe collaborative processes for making and implementing public policy and urban or regional planning Inclusive management also aligns with recent writings on network governance to the extent that they focus upon cross-boundary collaborations within networks.\n\nInclusive management practices are one way to enact public participation and civic engagement, which may be implemented in a variety of ways. Inclusive management practices are not the same as citizen participation or as inclusion as the latter term is typically used in democratic theory to denote the involvement of ethnically or socioeconomically diverse persons or groups in a decision-making process. Instead, inclusive management theories make a distinction between inclusive practices and participatory practices, which are intersecting dimensions of any civic engagement process. Inclusion is not a term for describing participation that has been done particularly well. Indeed, participation may be done well or badly, as may inclusion. Rather, inclusion and participation are two different approaches to public engagement, with different implications for the roles of the parties involved, the kinds of decisions reached, and the kind of community fostered by engagement. A process may be characterized by one, neither, or both, along two intersecting dimensions of low to high inclusion \"and\" low to high participation. The following table identifies the features of high participation and high inclusion.\n\nQuick and Feldman's distinction between inclusion and participation addresses the place of diversity in civic engagement. One potential source of confusion is that the inclusion component of the term inclusive management means something different from the commonplace use of inclusion to refer to the socioeconomic diversity of participants and adequacy of representation or the proportional representativeness of participation in an engagement process. Given the everyday use of the term, characterizing a process that has not had socioeconomically diverse participation as \"inclusive\" is confusing and may be misread as being dismissive of diversity. Diversity certainly does have a place in inclusive practices. Within the framework of distinguishing inclusion and participation, however, it is not an either/or proposition to decide whether a diverse process is or is not inclusive or participatory. Nor can diversity be assigned to the dimension of inclusion or participation. Instead, diversity can be engaged through participation- or inclusion-oriented strategies, but it has different meanings in these two orientations.\n\nInclusion involves transcending dichotomies or engaging boundaries. Dichotomies or boundaries – such as government/non-government, expert/local, internal/external, process/outcome, flexibility/accountability, participation/control, and the temporal or issue scope of a problem – are distinctions that inclusive managers often bring into play.\n\nBroader social theory about the relationship of structure and agency, such as structuration, practice theory, and actor-network theory, or regarding the nature of boundary-work and boundary objects, communities of practice, and the narrative construction of reality, are powerful instruments for analysis in showing the interdependent relations between these dichotomies and clarifying how actions that transcend these dichotomies may be enacted.\n\nPrior research has identified several inclusive practices, including:\n\n\nTo date, researchers have identified inclusive public management practices in communities that have a longstanding commitment to engaging the public, on an ongoing basis, in addressing public concerns together. This research has focused primarily on building public potential to address public problems at the local level of government in the United States. Grand Rapids, Michigan, and Charlotte, North Carolina are cities where inclusive practices have been documented. However, inclusive management practices might be found at any level of government or in any location.\n\nInclusive public management and leadership practices have been found to improve the quality of policy designs or the viability of policies by:\n\n"}
{"id": "1364785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1364785", "title": "Indology", "text": "Indology\n\nIndology or South Asian studies is the academic study of the history and cultures, languages, and literature of India and as such is a subset of Asian studies.\n\nThe term \"Indology\" or (in German) \"Indologie\" is often associated with German scholarship, and is used more commonly in departmental titles in German and continental European universities than in the anglophone academy. In the Netherlands the term \"Indologie\" was used to designate the study of Indonesian history and culture in preparation for colonial service in the Dutch East Indies.\n\nSpecifically, Indology includes the study of Sanskrit literature and Hinduism along with the other Indian religions, Jainism, Buddhism, Sikhism, and Pāli literature.\nDravidology is the separate branch dedicated to the Dravidian languages of South India. Hindu texts in Dravidian languages are considered disciplines in Indology.\n\nSome scholars distinguish \"Classical Indology\" from \"Modern Indology\", the former more focussed on Sanskrit and other ancient language sources, the latter on contemporary India, its politics and sociology.\n\nThe beginnings of the study of India by travellers from outside the subcontinent date back at least to Megasthenes (ca. 350–290 BC), a Greek ambassador of the Seleucids to the court of Chandragupta (ruled 322-298 BC), founder of the Mauryan Empire. Based on his life in India Megasthenes composed a four-volume \"Indica\", fragments of which still exist, and which influenced the classical geographers Arrian, Diodor and Strabo. Megasthenes reported that the caste system dominated an essentially illiterate India.\n\nAbū Rayhān al-Bīrūnī (973–1048) in Tarikh Al-Hind (\"Researches on India\") recorded the political and military history of India and covered India's cultural, scientific, social and religious history in detail.\nHe studied the anthropology of India, engaging in extensive participant observation with various Indian groups, learning their languages and studying their primary texts, and presenting his findings with objectivity and neutrality using cross-cultural comparisons.\n\nIndology as generally understood by its practitioners began in the later Early Modern period and incorporates essential features of modernity, including critical self-reflexivity, disembedding mechanisms and globalization, and the reflexive appropriation of knowledge. An important feature of Indology since the its beginnings in the late eighteenth century has been the development of networks of academic communication and trust through the creation of learned societies like the Asiatic Society of Bengal, and the creation of learned journals like the \"Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society\" and \"Annals of the Bhandarkar Oriental Research Institute\".\n\nOne of the defining features of Indology is the application of scholarly methodologies developed in European Classical Studies or \"Classics\" to the languages, literatures and cultures of South Asia.\n\nIn the wake of eighteenth century pioneers like William Jones, Henry Thomas Colebrooke or August Wilhelm Schlegel, Indology as an academic subject emerged in the nineteenth century, in the context of British India, together with Asian studies in general affected by the romantic Orientalism of the time. The Asiatic Society was founded in Calcutta in 1784, Société Asiatique founded in 1822, the Royal Asiatic Society in 1824, the American Oriental Society in 1842, and the German Oriental Society (Deutsche Morgenländische Gesellschaft) in 1845, the Japanese Association of Indian and Buddhist Studies in 1949.\n\nSanskrit literature included many pre-modern dictionaries, especially the \"Nāmaliṅgānuśāsana\" of Amarasiṃha, but a milestone in the Indological study of Sanskrit literature was publication of the St. Petersburg \"Sanskrit-Wörterbuch\" during the 1850s to 1870s. Translations of major Hindu texts in the Sacred Books of the East began in 1879. Otto von Böhtlingk's edition of Pāṇini's grammar appeared in 1887. Max Müller's edition of the Rigveda appeared in 1849–75. Albrecht Weber commenced publishing his pathbreaking journal \"Indologische Studien\" in 1849, and in 1897 Sergey Oldenburg launched a systematic edition of key Sanskrit texts, \"Bibliotheca Buddhica\".\n\nGerman indologists arbitrarily identified \"layers\" in the Mahabharata and Bhagavad Gita with the objective of fueling European anti-Semitism via the then popular aryan invasion theory. This required equating Brahmins with Jews, resulting in anti-Brahmanism.\n\nAs with many academic subjects which seem to have no direct bearing on modern concerns, Indology has come in for criticism. This has prompted a vigorous response from a number of eminent scholars, among them J. Bronkhorst.\n\nIndologists typically attend conferences such as the American Association of Asian Studies, the American Oriental Society annual conference, the World Sanskrit Conference, and national-level meetings in the UK, Germany, India, Japan, France and elsewhere.\n\nThey may routinely read and write in journals such as \"Indo-Iranian Journal\", \"Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society\", \"Journal of the American Oriental Society\", \"Journal asiatique\", the \"Journal of the German Oriental Society\" (ZDMG), \"Wiener Zeitschrift für die Kunde Südasiens\", \"Journal of Indian Philosophy\", \"Bhandarkar Oriental Research Institute\", \"Journal of Indian and Buddhist Studies\" (Indogaku Bukkyogaku Kenkyu), \"Bulletin de l'École française d'Extrême Orient\", and others.\n\nThey may be members of such professional bodies as the American Oriental Society, the Royal Asiatic Society of Great Britain and Ireland, the Société Asiatique, the Deutsche Morgenlāndische Gesellschaft and others.\n\nThe following is a list of prominent academically qualified Indologists.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nInstitutes\n\n"}
{"id": "2236323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2236323", "title": "Jinsha site", "text": "Jinsha site\n\nJinsha () is an archaeological site in Chengdu, capital of China's Sichuan Province. The site is located in Qingyang District, along the Modi River (). It is named for a nearby street, itself named after the Jinsha River.\n\nThe Jinsha site was accidentally discovered in February 2001 during real estate construction. Located about 50 km away from Sanxingdui, the site flourished around 1000 BC and shares similarities in burial objects with the Sanxingdui site. Ivory, jade artifacts, bronze objects, gold objects and carved stone objects were found at the site. Unlike the site at Sanxingdui, Jinsha did not have a city wall. Jinsha culture (1200–650 BC) was a final phase of Sanxingdui culture and represents a relocation of the political center in the ancient Shu Kingdom. The city was built on the banks of the Modi River.\n\nIn 2013, History Channel Asia, in co-production with China International Communication Center (CICC), produced a one-hour, English-language documentary \"The Lost City of Jinsha\" hosted by the Chinese-American archaeologist Dr. Agnes Hsu. The film is the first episode in the documentary series \"Mysteries of China\".\n\nJinsha site are together with Sanxingdui and Tombs of boat-shaped coffins on Unescos list of tentative world heritage sites.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29018046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29018046", "title": "Jorge Sanjinés", "text": "Jorge Sanjinés\n\nJorge Sanjinés (born 31 July 1936 in La Paz, Bolivia) is a Bolivian film director and screenwriter. He founded the production group \"Grupo Ukamau\". He won the ALBA Prize for Arts in 2009.\n\nJorge Sanjinés is known for his Marxist agenda, bringing highly political films of a revolutionary aesthetic to peasant and working-class audiences in the Andean highlands. The films that characterized the 'New Latin American Cinema' or Third Cinema provided an alternative to First (Capitalist) Cinema, making the social \"collective\" act as the protagonists of these films rather than an \"individual\" hero.\n\nThe 1969 film \"Blood of the Condor\" (\"Yawar Mallku\") by Sanjinés reveals the story of the undisclosed sterilization of Andean Indian women by a \"Progress Corps\" (standing in for the American Peace Corps) clinic. This film is thought to have led to the expulsion of the Peace Corps from Bolivia in an act of anti-imperialist cultural nationalism by the indigenous people.\n\nAfter showings of \"Yawar Mallku\", Sanjinés learned that many peasants had criticism about the difficulty of his films due to the use of flashback for narration, as his film-making was greatly influenced by European art cinema, and about the lack of attention to denouncing the causes of the indigenous peoples' issues. He took this into account when making his next film, called \"El coraje del pueblo\" (The Courage of the People), in 1971. \"El coraje del pueblo\" worked with untrained actors, many of them peasants themselves. This marked the beginning of a stage in Sanjinés's career characterized by filming \"with the people.\"\n\nHis next film, \"El enemigo principal\" (1973) explores the effects of U.S. imperialism through the relationship between wealthy landowners and the indigenous peasant population.\n\nJorge Sanjinés worked under strained film-making conditions, with limited funding, few production facilities, and little Bolivian movie tradition to draw upon.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14025593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14025593", "title": "Journal of Applied Philosophy", "text": "Journal of Applied Philosophy\n\nThe Journal of Applied Philosophy is a peer-reviewed academic journal published by Wiley-Blackwell on behalf of the Society for Applied Philosophy and edited by Elizabeth Brake (Arizona State University). It covers a broad spectrum of issues in all areas of applied philosophy, including work on the environment, medicine, science, engineering, policy, law, politics, economics, and education.\n\nAccording to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2017 impact factor of 1.018, ranking it 24th out of 51 journals in the category \"Ethics\".\n\nThe \"Journal of Applied Philosophy\" awards an annual prize of £1,000 to the best article published in the year’s volume.\n\n\nEach year since 2010, the Journal of Applied Philosophy has published the Annual Lecture hosted by the Society of Applied Philosophy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19257904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19257904", "title": "Khushab Tehsil", "text": "Khushab Tehsil\n\nKhushab Tehsil (), is an administrative subdivision (tehsil) Khushab District in the Punjab province of Pakistan.\n\nKhushab Tehsil was an agricultural region with forests during the Indus Valley Civilization. The Vedic period is characterized by Indo-Aryan culture that invaded from Central Asia and settled in Punjab region. The Kambojas, Daradas, Kaikayas, Madras, Pauravas, Yaudheyas, Malavas, Saindhavas and Kurus invaded, settled and ruled ancient Punjab region. After overrunning the Achaemenid Empire in 331 BCE, Alexander marched into present-day Punjab region with an army of 50,000. The Khushab was ruled by Maurya Empire, Indo-Greek kingdom, Kushan Empire, Gupta Empire, White Huns, Kushano-Hephthalites and Shahi kingdoms.\n\nIn 997 CE, Sultan Mahmud Ghaznavi, took over the Ghaznavid dynasty empire established by his father, Sultan Sebuktegin. In 1005 he conquered the Shahis in Kabul in 1005, and followed it by the conquests of Punjab region. The Delhi Sultanate and later Mughal Empire ruled the region. The Punjab region became predominantly Muslim due to missionary Sufi saints whose dargahs dot the landscape of Punjab region.\n\nAfter the decline of the Mughal Empire, the Sikh Empire invaded and occupied Khushab Tehsil. The Muslims faced restrictions during the Sikh rule. During the period of British rule, Khushab district increased in population and importance. During British rule Khushab was a tehsil of the old Shahpur District, the tehsil at that time had an area of . The population according to the 1901 census was 161,885 a rise of over 10,000 since 1891.\n\nThe predominantly Muslim population supported Muslim League and Pakistan Movement. After the independence of Pakistan in 1947, the minority Hindus and Sikhs migrated to India while the Muslim refugees from India settled in the Khushab Tehsil.\n\nKhushab tehsil is subdivided into 32 Union Councils:\n"}
{"id": "840350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=840350", "title": "Kimbell Art Museum", "text": "Kimbell Art Museum\n\nThe Kimbell Art Museum in Fort Worth, Texas, hosts an art collection as well as traveling art exhibitions, educational programs and an extensive research library. Its initial artwork came from the private collection of Kay and Velma Kimbell, who also provided funds for a new building to house it.\n\nThe building was designed by architect Louis I. Kahn and is widely recognized as one of the most significant works of architecture of recent times. It is especially noted for the wash of silvery natural light across its vaulted gallery ceilings.\n\nKay Kimbell was a wealthy Fort Worth businessman who built an empire of over 70 companies in a variety of industries. He married Velma Fuller, who kindled his interest in art collecting by taking him to an art show in Fort Worth in 1931, where he bought a British painting. They set up the Kimbell Art Foundation in 1935 to establish an art institute, and by the time of his death in 1964, the couple had amassed what was considered to be the best selection of old masters in the Southwest. Kay left much of his estate to the Kimbell Art Foundation, and Velma bequeathed her share of the estate to the foundation as well, with the key directive to \"build a museum of the first class.\"\n\nThe Foundation's board of trustees hired Richard Fargo Brown, then director of the Los Angeles County Museum of Art, as the founding director of the museum with the task of constructing a building to house the Kimbell's art collection. Upon accepting the post, Brown declared that the new building should itself be a work of art, \"as much a gem as one of the Rembrandts or Van Dycks housed within it.\" The proposed museum was given space in a 9.5 acre (3.8 hectare) site in Fort Worth's Cultural District, which was already home to three other museums, including the Modern Art Museum of Fort Worth and the Amon Carter Museum, specializing in art of the American West.\n\nBrown discussed the goals of the institution and its new building with the trustees and summarized them in a four-page \"Policy Statement\" and a nineteen-page \"Pre-Architectural Program\" in June 1966. After interviewing a number of prominent architects, the museum hired Louis I. Kahn in October 1966. Kahn's previous works included such acclaimed structures as the Salk Institute in California, and he had recently been honored by being chosen to design the National Assembly Building for what would become the capital of the new nation of Bangladesh. Construction for the Kimbell Art Museum began in the summer of 1969. The new building opened in October 1972 and quickly achieved an international reputation for architectural excellence.\n\nBrown also expanded the Kimbell collection by acquiring several works of significant quality by artists like Duccio, El Greco, Rubens, and Rembrandt.\n\nAfter Richard Fargo Brown's death in 1979, Edmund \"Ted\" Pillsbury was appointed director of the museum. Previously he had been the director of the newly opened Yale Center for British Art, which, coincidentally, was also designed by Louis Kahn. He had also been a curator at the Yale Art Gallery, Kahn's first art museum. Pillsbury continued the art acquisition program in an aggressive but disciplined fashion. Richard Brettell, director of the Dallas Museum of Art, said, \"He was, in some ways, single-handedly responsible for turning the Kimbell from an institution with a great building into one whose collection matched its architecture in quality\".\n\nIn 1989, Pillsbury announced plans to expand the museum's building to accommodate its enlarged collection, but the plan was dropped because of strong opposition to any major alteration of the original Louis Kahn structure. In 2007, the Kimbell solved that problem by announcing plans to construct an additional, separate building across the street from the original building. Designed by Renzo Piano, and relocated to the west lawn, the new structure opened to the public in November 2013.\n\nIn 1966, before the museum even had a building, founding director Brown included this directive in his Policy Statement: \"The goal shall be definitive excellence, not size of collection.\" Accordingly, the museum's collection today consists of only about 350 works of art, but they are of notably high quality.\nThe European collection is the most extensive in the museum and includes Michelangelo's first known painting, \"The Torment of Saint Anthony\", the only painting by Michelangelo on exhibit in the Americas. It also includes works by Duccio, Fra Angelico, Mantegna, El Greco, Carracci, Caravaggio, Rubens, Guercino, La Tour, Poussin, Velázquez, Rembrandt, Boucher, Gainsborough, Vigée-Lebrun, Friedrich (the first painting by the artist acquired by a public collection outside of Europe), Cézanne, Monet, Caillebotte, Matisse, Mondrian, Braque, Miró and Picasso. Works from the classical period include antiquities from Ancient Egypt, Assyria, Greece and Rome. The Asian collection comprises sculptures, paintings, bronzes, ceramics, and works of decorative art from China, Korea, Japan, India, Nepal, Tibet, Cambodia, and Thailand. Precolumbian art is represented by Maya works in ceramic, stone, shell, and jade, Olmec, Zapotec, and Aztec sculpture, as well as pieces from the Conte and Huari cultures. The African collection consists primarily of bronze, wood, and terracotta sculpture from West and Central Africa, including examples from Nigeria, Angola, and the Democratic Republic of the Congo, and Oceanic art is represented by a Maori figure.\n\nThe museum owns only a few pieces created after the mid-20th century (believing that era to be the province of its neighbor, the Modern Art Museum of Fort Worth) and no American art (believing that to be the province of its other neighbor, the Amon Carter Museum).\n\nThe museum also houses a substantial library with over 59,000 books, periodicals and auction catalogs that are available as a resource to art historians and to faculty and graduate students from surrounding universities.\n\nBrown's \"Policy Statement\" set a clear architectural direction by calling for the new building to be \"a work of art.\" It was augmented by his \"Pre-Architectural Program,\" which specified that \"natural light should play a vital part\" in the design and that \"the form of the building should be so complete in its beauty that additions would spoil that form.\" Brown called for a building of modest scale that would not overwhelm either the artwork or the viewer.\n\nAfter an extensive search that included interviews with such noted architects as Marcel Breuer, Mies van der Rohe, Pier Luigi Nervi, Gordon Bunshaft and Edward Larrabee Barnes, the commission was awarded to Louis Kahn in October 1966. From Kahn's point of view, Brown was an ideal client. Brown had been an admirer of Kahn's work for some time, and the approach he specified for the building was very much in line with Kahn's, particularly its emphasis on natural light.\n\nBecause Kahn had a reputation for significant time and cost overruns, a local engineering and architectural firm owned by Preston M. Geren was made associate architect, a practice followed in Fort Worth for out-of-state architects. Frank Sherwood served as their project coordinator. The Geren organization had a solid reputation for bringing in projects on time and within budget, but by their own admission they were not especially innovative. The contract called for control over construction to be turned over to Geren when Kahn had finished the design, a provision that eventually led to conflict because Kahn felt that a design was never finished until the building was constructed. Kahn once said, \"the building gives you answers as it grows and becomes itself.\" The museum trustees settled the issue by deciding that Geren would report directly to them instead of to Kahn, but that Kahn would have final say over the design, except that any changes would have to be approved by Brown.\n\nThe new museum was to be built on a gentle slope below the Amon Carter Museum, whose entrance and terrace faced the Fort Worth skyline. Kahn was asked to build the Kimbell museum no more than 40 feet (12 m) high so it would not interfere with the view from the Carter Museum. Kahn initially proposed a low but very spacious building 450 feet (137 m) square, but Brown rejected that proposal and insisted that Kahn design a much smaller structure, a decision that would have repercussions several years later when a proposal to expand the building created a storm of controversy.\n\nThe museum is composed of 16 parallel vaults that are each 100 feet (30.6 m) long, 20 feet (6 m) high and 20 feet (6 m) wide (internal measurements). Intervening low channels separate the vaults. The vaults are grouped into three wings. The north and south wings each have six vaults, with the western one open as a portico. The central space has four vaults, with the western one open as an entry porch facing a courtyard partially enclosed by the two outside wings.\n\nWith one exception, the art galleries are located on the upper floor of the museum to allow access to natural light. Service and curatorial spaces as well as an additional gallery occupy the ground floor. Each interior vault has a slot along its apex to allow natural light into the galleries. Air ducts and other mechanical services are located in the flat channels between the vaults.\n\nKahn used several techniques to give the galleries an inviting atmosphere. The ends of the vaults, which are made of concrete block, are faced with travertine inside and out. The steel handrails were \"blasted\" with ground pecan shells to create a matte surface texture. The museum has three glass-walled courtyards that bring natural light to the gallery spaces. One of them penetrates the gallery floor to bring natural light to the conservation studio on the ground floor.\n\nThe landscape has been described as \"Kahn's most elegant built example of landscape planning\" by Philadelphia landscape architect George Patton. Approaching the main entrance past a lawn edged by pools with running water, the visitor enters a courtyard through a grove of Yaupon Holly trees. The sound of footsteps on the gravel walkway echoes from the walls on either side of the courtyard and is magnified under the curved ceiling of the entry porch. After that subtle preparation, the visitor enters the hushed museum with silvery light spread across its ceiling. Harriet Pattison played the lead role in the landscape design and is also the person who suggested that open porches flanking the entrance would create a good transition from the lawn and courtyard to the galleries inside. Pattison, who had also worked with Kahn on other projects, was an employee of Patton. She is the mother of film director Nathaniel Kahn, Louis Kahn's son who made the film \"My Architect\" about his father.\n\nKahn's first design for the galleries called for angular vaults of folded concrete plates with light slots at the top. Brown liked the light slots but rejected this particular design because it had the ceilings 30 feet (9 m) high, too high for the museum he envisioned. Further research by Marshall Meyers, Kahn's project architect for the Kimbell museum, revealed that using a cycloid curve for the gallery vaults would reduce the ceiling height and provide other benefits as well. The relatively flat cycloid curve would produce elegant galleries that were wide in proportion to their height, allowing the ceiling to be lowered to 20 feet (6 m). More importantly, that curve could also be used to produce a beautiful distribution of natural light from a slot in the top of the gallery across the entire gallery ceiling.\n\nKahn was pleased with this development because it allowed him to design the museum with galleries that resembled the ancient Roman vaults he had always admired. The thin, curved shells needed for the roof were challenging to build, however, so Kahn called in a leading authority on concrete construction, August Komendant, with whom he had worked before (and who, like Kahn, was born in Estonia). Kahn generally referred to the museum's roof form as a vault, but Komendant explained that it was actually a shell playing the role of a beam. More precisely, as professor Steven Fleming points out, the shells that form the gallery roofs are \"post-tensioned curved concrete beams, spanning an incredible 100 feet\" (30.5 m), which \"happened to have been the maximum distance that concrete walls or vaults could be produced without requiring expansion control joints.\" Both terms, vault and shell, are used in professional literature describing the museum.\n\nTrue vaults, such as the Roman vaults that Kahn admired, will collapse if not supported along the entire lengths of each side. Not fully understanding the capabilities of modern concrete shells, Kahn initially planned to include many more support columns than were necessary for the gallery roofs. Komendant was able to use post-tensioned concrete that was only five inches thick to create gallery \"vaults\" that need support columns only at their four corners.\n\nThe Geren firm, which had been asked to look for ways to keep costs low, objected that the cycloid vaults would be too expensive and urged a flat roof instead. Kahn, however, insisted on a vaulted roof, which would enable him to create galleries with a comforting, room-like atmosphere yet with minimal need for columns or other internal structures that would reduce the museum's flexibility. Eventually a deal was struck whereby Geren would be responsible for the foundation and basement while Komendant would be responsible for the upper floors and cycloid shells. Kahn placed one of these shells at the front of each of the three wings as a porch or portico to illustrate how the building was constructed. The effect was, in his words, \"like a piece of sculpture outside the building.\"\n\nThos. S. Byrne, Ltd. was the contractor for the project, with A. T. Seymour as project manager. Virgil Earp and L. G. Shaw, Byrne's project superintendents, designed forms with a cycloid shape that were made from hinged plywood and lined with an oily coating so they could be reused to pour concrete for multiple sections of the vaults, helping to ensure consistency. The long, straight channels at the bottoms of the shells were cast first so they could be used as platforms to support the workmen pouring concrete for the cycloid curves. After all the concrete had been poured and strengthened with internal post-tensioning cables, however, the curved parts of the shells carried the weight of their lower straight edges instead of the other way around.\n\nTo prevent the shells from collapsing at the long light slots at their apexes, concrete struts were inserted at 10-foot (3 m) intervals. A relatively thick concrete arch was added to each end of the shells to stiffen them further. To make it clear that the curved shells are supported only at their four corners and not by the walls at the ends of the vaults, thin arcs of transparent material were inserted between the curve of the shells and the end walls. Because the stiffening arches of the shells are thicker at the top, the transparent strips are tapered, thinner at the top than at the bottom. In addition, a linear transparent strip was placed between the straight bottoms of the shells and the long exterior walls to show that the shells aren't supported by those walls either. In addition to revealing the building's structure, these features bring additional natural light into the galleries in a way that is safe for the paintings.\n\nThe vault roofs, which are visible to approaching visitors, were covered with lead sheathing inspired by the lead covering of the complexly curved roofs of the Doge's Palace and St. Mark's Basilica in Venice, Italy.\n\nDavid Brownlee and David DeLong, authors of \"Louis I. Kahn: In The Realm of Architecture\", declare that \"in Fort Worth, Kahn created a skylight system without peer in the history of architecture.\" Robert McCarter, author of \"Louis I. Kahn\", says the entry gallery is \"one of the most beautiful spaces ever built,\" with its \"astonishing, ethereal, silver-colored light.\" Carter Wiseman, author of \"Louis I. Kahn: Beyond Time and Style,\" said that \"the light in the Kimbell gallery assumed an almost ethereal quality, and has been the distinguishing factor in its fame ever since.\"\n\nCreating a natural lighting system that has evoked such acclaim was challenging, and Kahn's office and the lighting designer Richard Kelly investigated over 100 approaches in their search for the proper skylight system. The goal was to illuminate the galleries with indirect natural light while excluding all direct sunlight, which would damage the artwork. Richard Kelly, lighting consultant, determined that a reflecting screen made of perforated anodized aluminum with a specific curve could be used to distribute natural light evenly across the cycloid curve of the ceiling. He hired a computer expert to determine the exact shape of the reflector's curve, making it one of the first architectural elements ever to be designed with computer technology.\n\nIn areas without art, such as the lobby, cafeteria and library, the entire reflector is perforated, making it possible for people standing beneath to glimpse passing clouds. In the gallery spaces, the central part of the reflector, which is directly beneath the sun, is solid, while the remainder is perforated. The concrete surfaces of the ceiling were given a high finish to further assist the reflection of the light. The end result is that the strong Texas sun enters a narrow slot at the top of each vault and is evenly reflected from a curved screen across the entire arc of the polished concrete ceiling, ensuring a beautiful distribution of natural light that had never before been achieved.\n\nIn 1989, director Ted Pillsbury, Brown's successor, announced plans to add two wings to the north and south ends of the building and chose architect Romaldo Giurgola to design them. A firestorm of protest erupted. Critics pointed out that founding director Brown's \"Pre-Architectural Program\" had specified that \"the form of the building should be so complete in its beauty that additions would spoil that form,\" and that Kahn had achieved that goal extraordinarily well.\n\nA group of prominent architects signed a letter acknowledging the need for additional space but arguing that the proposed addition would compromise the proportions of the original. They noted that when Kahn himself was questioned about the possibility of a future expansion, he said that it should \"occur as a new building and be situated away from the present structure across the lawn\". Esther Kahn, Louis Kahn's widow, published a letter voicing similar sentiments, noting that \"there is room on the site for a separate building, which could be connected to the present museum.\" The project was cancelled a few months later.\n\nIn 2006, the idea of an expansion surfaced once again at a dinner in Fort Worth attended by Timothy Potts, the museum's director at the time (Eric M. Lee has been the director since March 2009); Kay Fortson, president of the Kimbell Art Foundation and a key figure in the creation of the original building; Ben Fortson, a trustee; and Sue Ann Kahn, Louis Kahn's daughter and a vocal opponent of the original plan for expansion. The new proposal was exactly in line with Louis Kahn's own thoughts for expansion: a separate building. At that time, the new structure was to be sited on land to the back of the Kahn building.\n\nIn April 2007, the museum announced that Renzo Piano had been chosen to design the new building. Piano was an obvious choice because he had worked in Louis Kahn's office as a young man and had later established a reputation as one of the world's leading museum architects. Piano had been particularly active in Texas, designing the Menil Collection in Houston, a commission in Louis Kahn's studio at the time of Kahn's death, and the Nasher Sculpture Center in Dallas. He also designed the expansion for the Art Institute of Chicago and was co-designer of the Pompidou Centre in Paris.\nThe schematic designs for the new Kimbell building were made public in November 2008, and the plans were released in May 2010. The 85,000 square foot (7,900 m²) structure will complement the original building but not mimic it. Unlike the original, its lines will be rectilinear, not curvilinear. Like the original, however, it will have three bays with the middle bay stepped back from the other two. The new building expansion, named the Renzo Piano Pavilion, was officially inaugurated to the public on November 27, 2013.\n\nThe new building should also resolve a parking issue at the museum. Kahn was deeply troubled by the negative impact of the automobile on city life; he once spoke of \"the destruction of the city by the motor car.\" Fundamentally opposed to the idea of orienting buildings to the automobile, Kahn placed the main parking lot in the back of the building, intending for visitors to walk around the building and enter through carefully planned landscaping. Most visitors, however, entered through the back door on the ground floor, missing the entry experience that Kahn had designed. The new building will solve the problem with an underground parking garage. After visitors ascend to the gallery level of the new building, they can exit it and walk across the lawn and the courtyard to enter the original building as Kahn had intended.\n\n\nThe Kimbell Art Museum derives around 65% of its $12m budget from its unrestricted endowment of more than $400 million. The endowment fell from $466m to $398m during the first years of the 2007–2012 global financial crisis. The museum has no special funds for acquisitions. Museum membership is at 15,000.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9486007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9486007", "title": "Kunukku", "text": "Kunukku\n\nKunukku (Akkadian), Kišib (Sumerian) is the term for the cylinder seals used approximately until the overthrow of the Assyrian Empire.\n\nThe operation of the Kunukku/Kisib was that an item would be covered in clay and the cylinder seal would be rolled over it creating a continuous impression. This would be harder to counterfeit if broken than would a stamp seal.\n\nThe Kunukku could be impressed on clay over the stopper of an amphora of wine, for example; then allowed to dry before shipment. It could also be impressed over twine tying a door shut, thus indicating whether the premises had been entered. As a speculation, a Kunukku with the image of a god might be seen as invoking the god's protection.\n\nThe customary materials used were Lapis and Carnelian, worked by a Bur-gul or seal maker.\n\nContracts were entered on a clay tablet stating the agreement. Those who could attest to the agreement would also be noted and append a seal impression. This was then fire cured into a \"brick\", which was subsequently covered with clay and seal with a one-time Bur-gul seal Kunukku made of clay, which would be smashed after the use. If a dispute arose, the time cured clay covering could be broken, the witnesses brought forward and the issue resolved.\n\nKunukku is an ancient Christian Keralite type of jewelry. Usually it is an earring made of gold. It consists of a circular thin chain with a small ball hanging from it.\n\nImagine the shape of an upside-down water droplet with a ball hanging at the end of it.\n\nKunukku defined University of Pennsylvania - DCCMT Akkadian Glossary\n\nKunukku was referenced in the popular 1997 Booker Prize winning book, The God of Small Things by Arundhati Roy\n"}
{"id": "662134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=662134", "title": "Letterpress printing", "text": "Letterpress printing\n\nLetterpress printing is a technique of relief printing using a printing press, a process by which many copies are produced by repeated direct impression of an inked, raised surface against sheets or a continuous roll of paper. A worker composes and locks movable type into the \"bed\" or \"chase\" of a press, inks it, and presses paper against it to transfer the ink from the type which creates an impression on the paper.\n\nIn practice, letterpress also includes other forms of relief printing with printing presses, such as wood engravings, photo-etched zinc \"cuts\" (plates), and linoleum blocks, which can be used alongside metal type, or wood type, in a single operation, as well as stereotypes and electrotypes of type and blocks. With certain letterpress units it is also possible to join movable type with slugs cast using hot metal typesetting. In theory, anything that is \"type high\" or .918 inches can be printed using letterpress.\n\nLetterpress printing was the normal form of printing text from its invention by Johannes Gutenberg in the mid-15th century until the 19th century and remained in wide use for books and other uses until the second half of the 20th century. Letterpress printing remained the primary way to print and distribute information until the 20th century, when offset printing was developed, which largely supplanted its role in printing books and newspapers. All forms of data collection were affected by the invention of letterpress printing, as were many careers such as teachers, preachers, physicians and surgeons and artist-engineers. More recently, letterpress printing has seen a revival in an artisanal form.\n\nJohannes Gutenberg is credited with the development in the western hemisphere, in about 1440, of modern movable type printing from individually cast, reusable letters set together in a form (frame or chase). Movable type was first invented in China using ceramic type in 1040 AD. Gutenberg also invented a wooden printing press, based on the extant wine press, where the type surface was inked with leather-covered ink balls and paper laid carefully on top by hand, then slid under a padded surface and pressure applied from above by a large threaded screw. It was Gutenberg's \"screw press\" or hand press that was used to print 180 copies of the Bible. At 1,282 pages, it took him and his staff of 20 almost 3 years to complete. 48 copies remain intact today. This form of presswork gradually replaced the hand-copied manuscripts of scribes and illuminators as the most prevalent form of printing. Printers' workshops, previously unknown in Europe before the mid-15th century, were found in every important metropolis by 1500. Later metal presses used a knuckle and lever arrangement instead of the screw, but the principle was the same. Ink rollers made of composition made inking faster and paved the way for further automation.\n\nWith the advent of industrial mechanisation, inking was carried out by rollers that passed over the face of the type, then moved out of the way onto an ink plate to pick up a fresh film of ink for the next sheet. Meanwhile, a sheet of paper slid against a hinged platen (see image), which then rapidly pressed onto the type and swung back again as the sheet was removed and the next sheet inserted. As the fresh sheet of paper replaced the printed paper, the now freshly inked rollers ran over the type again. Fully automated 20th-century presses, such as the Kluge and \"Original\" Heidelberg Platen (the \"Windmill\"), incorporated pneumatic sheet feed and delivery.\n\nRotary presses were used for high-speed work. In the oscillating press, the form slid under a drum around which each sheet of paper got wrapped for the impression, sliding back under the inking rollers while the paper was removed and a new sheet inserted. In a newspaper press, a papier-mâché mixture called a flong used to make a mould of the entire form of type, then dried and bent, and a curved metal stereotype plate cast against it. The plates were clipped to a rotating drum and could print against a continuous reel of paper at the enormously high speeds required for overnight newspaper production.\nThis invention helped aid the high demand for knowledge during this time period.\n\nLetterpress printing was introduced in Canada in 1752 in Halifax, Nova Scotia by John Bushell in the newspaper format. This paper was named the Halifax Gazette and became Canada's first newspaper. Bushell apprenticed under Bartholomew Green in Boston. Green moved to Halifax in 1751 in hopes of starting a newspaper, as it did not exist in the area. Two weeks and a day after the press he was going to use for this new project arrived in Halifax, Green died. Upon receiving word about what happened, Bushell moved to Halifax and continued what Green had started. The Halifax Gazette was first published on March 23, 1752, making Bushell the first letterpress printer in Halifax, and eventually Canada. There is only one known surviving copy which was found in the Massachusetts Historical Society.\n\nOne of the first forms of letterpress printing in the United States was Publick Occurrences Both Forreign and Domestick started by Benjamin Harris. This was the first form of a newspaper with multiple pages in the Americas. The first publication of Publick Occurrences Both Forreign and Domestick was September 25, 1690.\n\nLetterpress started to become largely out-of-date in the 1970s because of the rise of computers and new self-publishing print and publish methods. Many printing establishments went out of business from the 1980s to 1990s and sold their equipment after computers replaced letterpress's abilities more efficiently. These commercial print shops discarded presses, making them affordable and available to artisans throughout the country. Popular presses are, in particular, Vandercook cylinder proof presses and Chandler & Price platen presses. In the UK there is particular affection for the Arab press, built by Josiah Wade in Halifax.\nLetterpress recently has had a rebirth in popularity because of the \"allure of hand-set type\" and the differences today between traditional letterpress and computerized printed text. Letterpress is unique and different from standard printing formats that we are currently used to. Letterpress commonly features a relief impression of the type, although this was considered bad printing in traditional letterpress. Letterpress's goal before the recent revival of letterpress was to not show any impression. The type touched the paper slightly to leave a transfer of ink, but did not leave an impression. This is often referred to as \"the kiss\" An example of this former technique would be newspapers. Some letterpress practitioners today have the distinct goal of showing the impression of type, to distinctly note that it is letterpress but many printers choose to maintain the integrity of the traditional methods. Printing with too much impression is destructive to both the machines and to the type. Since its revival letterpress has largely been used for fine art and stationery as its traditional use for newspaper printing is no longer relevant for use.\n\nLetterpress is considered a craft as it involves using a skill and is done by hand. Fine letterpress work is crisper than offset litho because of its impression into the paper, giving greater visual definition to the type and artwork, although it is not what letterpress traditionally was meant for. Today, many of these small letterpress shops survive by printing fine editions of books or by printing upscale invitations, stationery, and greeting cards. These methods often use presses that require the press operator to feed paper one sheet at a time by hand. Today, the juxtaposition of this technique and offbeat humor for greeting cards has been proven by letterpress shops to be marketable to independent boutiques and gift shops. Some of these printmakers are just as likely to use new printing methods as old, for instance by printing using photopolymer plates on restored vintage presses.\n\nLetterpress publishing has recently undergone a revival in the USA, Canada, and the UK, under the general banner of the \"Small Press Movement\". Renewed interest in letterpress was fueled by Martha Stewart Weddings magazine, which began using pictures of letterpress invitations in the 1990s. In 2004 they state \"Great care is taken in choosing the perfect wedding stationery – couples ponder details from the level of formality to the flourishes of the typeface. The method of printing should be no less important, as it can enliven the design exquisitely. That is certainly the case with letterpress.\" In regards to having printed letterpress invitations, the beauty and texture became appealing to couples who began wanting letterpress invitations instead of engraved, thermographed, or offset-printed invitations.\n\nThe movement has been helped by the emergence of a number of organizations that teach letterpress such as Columbia College Chicago's Center for Book and Paper Arts, Art Center College of Design and Armory Center for the Arts both in Pasadena, Calif., New York's Center for Book Arts, Studio on the Square and The Arm NYC, the Wells College Book Arts Center in Aurora, New York, the San Francisco Center for the Book, Bookworks, Seattle's School of Visual Concepts, Olympia's The Evergreen State College, Black Rock Press, North Carolina State University, Washington D.C's Corcoran College of Art and Design, Penland School of Crafts, the Minnesota Center for Book Arts, the International Printing Museum in Carson, CA, Western Washington University in Bellingham, WA, Old Dominion University in Norfolk, VA, and the Bowehouse Press at VCU in Richmond, VA.\n\nAffordable copper, magnesium and photopolymer platemakers and milled aluminum bases have allowed letterpress printers to produce type and images derived from digital artwork, fonts and scans. Economical plates have encouraged the rise of \"digital letterpress\" in the 21st century, allowing a small number of firms to flourish commercially and enabling a larger number of boutique and hobby printers to avoid the limitations and complications of acquiring and composing metal type. At the same time there has been a renaissance in small-scale type foundries to produce new metal type on Monotype equipment, Thompson casters and the original American Type Founders machines.\n\nThe process of letterpress printing consists of several stages: composition, imposition and lock-up, and printing. In a small shop, all would occur in a single room, whereas in larger printing plants, such as with urban newspapers and magazines, each might form a distinct department with its own room, or even floor.\n\nComposition, or typesetting, is the stage where pieces of movable type are assembled to form the desired text. The person charged with composition is called a \"compositor\" or \"typesetter\", setting letter by letter and line by line.\n\nTraditionally, as in manual composition, it involves selecting the individual type letters from a type case, placing them in a composing stick, which holds several lines, then transferring those to a larger type galley. By this method the compositor gradually builds out the text of an individual page letter by letter. In mechanical typesetting, it may involve using a keyboard to select the type, or even cast the desired type on the spot, as in hot metal typesetting, which are then added to a galley designed for the product of that process. The first keyboard-actuated typesetting machines to be widely accepted, the Linotype and the Monotype, were introduced in the 1890s.\n\nThe Ludlow Typograph Machine, for casting of type-high slugs from hand-gathered brass matrices, was first manufactured in Chicago in 1912 and was widely used until the 1980s. Many are still in use and although no longer manufactured, service and parts are still available for them.\n\nAfter a galley is assembled to fill a page's worth of type, the type is tied together into a single unit so that it may be transported without falling apart. From this bundle a galley proof is made, which is inspected by a proof-reader to make sure that the particular page is accurate.\n\nBroadly, imposition or imposing is the process by which the tied assemblages of type are converted into a form (or forme) ready to use on the press. A person charged with imposition is a stoneman or stonehand, doing their work on a large, flat imposition stone (though some later ones were instead made of iron).\n\nIn the more specific modern sense, imposition is the technique of arranging the various pages of type with respect to one another. Depending on page size and the sheet of paper used, several pages may be printed at once on a single sheet. After printing, these are cut and trimmed before folding or binding. In these steps, the imposition process ensures that the pages face the right direction and in the right order with the correct margins. Printing formes are put together in multiples of 12 pages. The stonehand arranges the pages in such a way that the folios (page numbers) of facing pages add up to the form's total + 1 (12 + 1 = 13, 24 + 1 = 25 etc.)\n\nLow-height pieces of wood or metal furniture are added to make up the blank areas of a page. The printer uses a mallet to strike a wooden block, which ensures tops (and only the tops) of the raised type blocks are all aligned so they will contact a flat sheet of paper simultaneously.\n\nLock-up is the final step before printing. The printer removes the cords that hold the type together, and turns the quoins with a key or lever to lock the entire complex of type, blocks, furniture, and chase (frame) into place. This creates the final forme, which the printer takes to the printing press. In a newspaper setting, each page needs a truck to be transported – 2 pages need 2 trucks hence the term \"double truck\". The first copy is proofed again for errors before starting the printing run.\n\nThe working of the printing process depends on the type of press used, as well as any of its associated technologies (which varied by time period).\n\nHand presses generally required two people to operate them: one to ink the type, the other to work the press. Later mechanized jobbing presses require a single operator to feed and remove the paper, as the inking and pressing are done automatically.\n\nThe completed sheets are then taken to dry and for finishing, depending on the variety of printed matter being produced. With newspapers, they are taken to a folding machine. Sheets for books are sent for bookbinding.\n\nYou can distinguish a traditional letterpress printer from a digital printer by its debossed lettering. A traditional letterpress printer made a heavy impression into the stock and producing any indentation at all into the paper would have resulted in the print run being rejected. Part of the skill of operating a traditional letterpress printer was to adjust the machine pressures just right so that the type just kissed the paper, transferring the minimum amount of ink to create the crispest print with no indentation. This was very important as when the print exited the machine and was stacked having too much wet ink and an indentation would have increased the risk of set-off (ink passing from the front of one sheet onto the back of the next sheet on the stack).\n\nThe letterpress printing process remained virtually unchanged until the 1950s when it was replaced with the more efficient and commercially viable offset printing process. The labor-intensive nature of the typesetting and need to store vast amounts of lead or wooden type resulted in the letterpress printing process falling out of favour.\n\nIn the 1980s dedicated letterpress practitioners revived the old craft by embracing a new manufacturing method which allowed them to create raised surface printing plates from a negative and a photopolymer plate.\n\nPhotopolymer plates are light sensitive. On one side the surface is cured when it is exposed to ultraviolet light and other side is a metal or plastic backing that can be mounted on a base. The relief printing surface is created by placing a negative of the piece to be printed on the photosensitive side of the plate; the light passing through the clear regions of the negative causes the photopolymer to harden. The unexposed areas remain soft and can be washed away with water.\n\nWith these new printing plates, designers were no longer inhibited by the limitations of handset wooden or lead type. New design possibilities emerged and the letterpress printing process experienced a revival. Today it is in high demand for wedding stationery however there are limitations to what can be printed and designers must adhere to some design for letterpress principles.\n\nThe invention of ultra-violet curing inks has helped keep the rotary letterpress alive in areas like self-adhesive labels. There is also still a large amount of flexographic printing, a similar process, which uses rubber plates to print on curved or awkward surfaces, and a lesser amount of relief printing from huge wooden letters for lower-quality poster work.\n\nRotary letterpress machines are still used on a wide scale for printing self-adhesive and non-self-adhesive labels, tube laminate, cup stock, etc. The printing quality achieved by a modern letterpress machine with UV curing is on par with flexo presses. It is more convenient and user friendly than a flexo press. It uses water-wash photopolymer plates, which are as good as any solvent-washed flexo plate. Today even CtP (computer-to-plate) plates are available making it a full-fledged, modern printing process. Because there is no anilox roller in the process, the make-ready time also goes down when compared to a flexo press. Inking is controlled by keys very much similar to an offset press. UV inks for letterpress are in paste form, unlike flexo. Various manufacturers produce UV rotary letterpress machines, viz. Dashen, Nickel, Taiyo Kikai, KoPack, Gallus, etc. – and offer hot/cold foil stamping, rotary die cutting, flatbed die cutting, sheeting, rotary screen printing, adhesive side printing, and inkjet numbering. Central impression presses are more popular than inline presses due to their ease of registration and simple design. Printing of up to nine colours plus varnish is possible with various online converting processes. But as the letterpress machines are the same like a decade before, they can furthermore only be used with one colour of choice simultaneously. If there are more colours needed, they have to be exchanged one after the other.\n\nLetterpress can produce work of high quality at high speed, but it requires much time to adjust the press for varying thicknesses of type, engravings, and plates called makeready. The process requires a high degree of craftsmanship, but in the right hands, letterpress excels at fine typography. It is used by many small presses that produce fine, handmade, limited-edition books, artists' books, and high-end ephemera such as greeting cards and broadsides. Because of the time needed to make letterpress plates and to prepare the press, setting type by hand has become less common with the invention of the photopolymer plate, a photosensitive plastic sheet that can be mounted on metal to bring it up to type high.\n\nTo bring out the best attributes of letterpress, printers must understand the capabilities and advantages of what can be a very unforgiving medium. For instance, since most letterpress equipment prints only one color at a time, printing multiple colors requires a separate press run in register with the preceding color. When offset printing arrived in the 1950s, it cost less, and made the color process easier. The inking system on letterpress equipment is the same as offset presses, posing problems for some graphics. Detailed, white (or \"knocked out\") areas, such as small, serif type, or very fine halftone surrounded by fields of color can fill in with ink and lose definition if Rollers are not adjusted correctly. However, a skilled printer overcomes most of these problems. However, a letterpress provides the option of a wider range of paper, including handmade, organic, and tree-free. Letterpress printing provides a wide range of production choices. The classic feel and finish of letterpress papers takes printing back to an era of quality and craftsmanship. Even the smell of the ink, more apparent on a letterpress-printed page than with offset, may appeal to collectors.\n\nWhile less common in contemporary letterpress printing, it is possible to print halftone photographs, via photopolymer plates. However, letterpress printing's strengths are crisp lines, patterns, and typography.\nCreating files for letterpress is similar to conventional printing.\n\nSeveral dozen colleges and universities around the United States have either begun or re-activated programs teaching letterpress printing in fully equipped facilities. In many cases these letterpress shops are affiliated with the college's library or art department, and in others they are independent, student-run operations or extracurricular activities sponsored by the college. The College & University Letterpress Printers' Association (CULPA) was founded in 2006 by Abigail Uhteg at the Maryland Institute College of Art to help these schools stay connected and share resources. Many universities offer degree programs such as: Oregon College of Art and Craft, Southwest School of Art, Middle Tennessee State University, School of the Art Institute of Chicago, Indiana University, Miami University, Corcoran College of Art and Design, and Rochester Institute of Technology.\n\nThe current renaissance of letterpress printing has created a crop of hobby press shops that are owner-operated and driven by a love of the craft. Several larger printers have added an environmental component to the venerable art by using only wind-generated electricity to drive their presses and plant equipment.\nNotably, a few small boutique letterpress shops are using only solar power.\n\nIn Berkeley, California, letterpress printer and lithographer David Goines maintains a studio with a variety of platen and cylinder letterpresses as well as lithography presses. He has drawn attention both from commercial printers and fine artists for his wide knowledge and meticulous skill with letterpress printing. He collaborated with restaurateur and free speech activist Alice Waters, the owner of Chez Panisse, on her book \"30 Recipes Suitable for Framing\". He has created strikingly colorful large posters for such Bay Area businesses and institutions as Acme Bread and UC Berkeley.\n\nIn London, St Bride Library houses a large collection of letterpress information in its collection of 50,000 books: all the classic works on printing technique, visual style, typography, graphic design, calligraphy and more. This is one of the world's foremost collections and is located off Fleet Street in the heart of London's old printing and publishing district. In addition, regular talks, conferences, exhibitions and demonstrations take place.\n\nThe St Bride Institute, Edinburgh College of Art, Central Saint Martins College of Art and Design, The Arts University Bournemouth, Plymouth University, University for the Creative Arts Farnham, London College of Communication and Camberwell College of the Arts London run short courses in letterpress as well as offering these facilities as part of their Graphic Design Degree Courses.\n\nThe Hamilton Wood Type and Printing Museum in Two Rivers, Wisconsin houses one of the largest collections of wood type and wood cuts in the world inside one of the Hamilton Manufacturing Company's factory buildings. Also included are presses and vintage prints. The museum holds many workshops and conferences throughout the year and regularly welcomes groups of students from Universities from across the United States.\n\nIn 2011 John Bonadies and Jeff Adams created a virtual letterpress that runs on an iPad (and later the Mac) and replicates each step of the letterpress process. LetterMpress was funded from a Kickstarter campaign enabling the developers to collect and digitize wood type from around the world. The app's press is modeled after a Vandercook SP-15 (considered to be a top-of-the-line proof press in its time, and coveted by artists and designers today).\n\nIn 2015 a renaissance of letterpress printing by artists is widely acknowledged.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1096511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1096511", "title": "Mentalist postulate", "text": "Mentalist postulate\n\nThe mentalist postulate is the thesis that meaning in natural language is an information structure that is mentally encoded by human beings. It is a basic premise of some branches of cognitive semantics. Semantic theories implicitly or explicitly incorporating the mentalist postulate include force dynamics and conceptual semantics.\n\nTwo implications of the mentalist postulate are: first, that research on the nature of mental representations can serve to constrain or enrich semantic theories; and secondly, that results of semantic theories bear directly on the nature of human conceptualization.\n"}
{"id": "39515255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39515255", "title": "Minou Tavárez Mirabal", "text": "Minou Tavárez Mirabal\n\nMinerva Josefina Tavárez Mirabal (born 31 August 1956 in Ojo de Agua, Hermanas Mirabal Province), known by the hypocoristic Minou, is a philologist, professor and politician from the Dominican Republic. Mrs. Tavárez has served as deputy for the National District in the lower House since 2002; and served as deputy foreign minister from 1996 to 2000.\n\nTavárez was the presidential nominee of both the Alliance for Democracy and Democratic Choice parties for the 2016 Dominican Republic general election.\n\nMinou is daughter of Dominican lawyers and activists and María Argentina Minerva Mirabal, both founders in 1960 of the clandestine movement 14 June that sought the overthrow of dictator Rafael Trujillo.\nHer mother was assassinated by the dictatorship on 1960, and her father was murdered by the Triumvirate (three-member junta) that overthrew Juan Bosch’s legitimate government in 1963, becoming an orphan at the age of 7 years. Her parents are considered as martyrs and national heroes.\n\nTavárez is cousin and foster sister of Jaime David Fernández Mirabal, a former vicepresident of the Dominican Republic.\n\nShe was Vice-Chancellor of the Dominican Republic for the period 1996-2000. She was elected Representative to the National Congress for the period 2002-2006, and re-elected in subsequent periods 2006-2010 and 2010-2016. She is President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation of the House of Representatives, and member of several other committees.\n\n"}
{"id": "39052042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39052042", "title": "Mother India (book)", "text": "Mother India (book)\n\nMother India (1927) is a polemical book by American historian Katherine Mayo which attacks Indian society, religion and culture.\n\nWritten in opposition to the Indian demands for self-rule and independence from British rule, the book pointed to the treatment of India's women, the untouchables, animals, dirt, and the character of its nationalistic politicians. A large part of the book dealt with the problems resulting from the marriage of young girls. This was considered to be one of the main causes that led to an uproar across India after many newspapers declaring it scurrilous libel against Hindus and Hinduism. Mayo singled out the allegedly rampant and fatally weakening sexuality of its males to be at the core of all problems, leading to masturbation, rape, homosexuality, prostitution, and venereal diseases.\n\nMayo's book created outrage across India, and it was burned along with her effigy. Mayo's book \"Mother India\" was criticized by Mahatma Gandhi as a \"report of a drain inspector sent out with the one purpose of opening and examining the drains of the country to be reported upon\". The book prompted over fifty angry books and pamphlets to be published to highlight Mayo's errors and false perception of Indian society, which had become a powerful influence on the American people's view of India.\n\nCritics of Mayo accuse her works of being racist, pro-imperialist and Indophobic tracts that \"expressed all the dominant prejudices of colonial society.\"\n\nIn 1929, Harry H. Field, whom she had thanked in the foreword of her book wrote a book called \"After Mother India\" in which he responded to the criticisms made of the book, added more commentaries and wrote a brief biography of Katherine Mayo. A chapter was dedicated to the most important critique, that of Gandhi.\n\nAfter its publication Dalip Singh Saund (later a congressman) wrote \"My Mother India\" (\"c.\" 1930) to counter Mayo's assertions. Another response to Mayo's book was Dhan Gopal Mukerji's \"A Son of Mother India Answers\" (1928).\n\nThe title of Mehboob Khan's 1957 Hindi epic film \"Mother India\" is a deliberate rebuke to Mayo's book.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52341749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52341749", "title": "Nordic Institute of Asian Studies", "text": "Nordic Institute of Asian Studies\n\nNordic Institute of Asian Studies (), or NIAS for short, is a university Institute for Asian studies of Copenhagen University in Denmark. The institute is located in Copenhagen and serve all five Nordic countries, comprising Denmark (including Greenland and Faroe Islands), Norway, Sweden, Finland and Iceland.\n\nNIAS was established under the auspices of the Nordic Council of Ministers in 1968 as a Nordic focal point for research on Asia.\n\nOn 1 January 2005, NIAS was incorporated as an independent academic institute under Danish University Law and is now a centre under the Department of Political Science of the University of Copenhagen. The Department of Political Science has administrative and legal responsibility for NIAS. The independence of the institute is manifested through NIAS own strategy and research policy.\n\nNordic Institute of Asian Studies holds its own library, NIAS Library and Information Centre (NIAS LINC), serving the NIAS community. NIAS LINC has been a digital library since 2014.\n\nNordic Institute of Asian Studies operate its own press, NIAS Press, focusing primarily on social sciences and history relating to contemporary Southeast Asia and East Asia, but not exclusively. NIAS Press presents authors from all over the world and publishes exclusively in English.\n\n\"Asia in Focus\" is a peer-reviewed academic journal published twice a year on-line by NIAS.\n\n"}
{"id": "38898666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38898666", "title": "Plan de Ayutla (Maya Site)", "text": "Plan de Ayutla (Maya Site)\n\nPlan de Ayutla is an archaeological site of the pre-Columbian Maya civilization. It is located in the municipality of Ocosingo of the Mexican state of Chiapas. The ruins are notable for having the earliest urban remains in the Upper Usumacinta region, as well as a unique ancient theater for elite use. The ancient identity of the site is subject to debate.\n\nThe modern name comes from a nearby Tzeltal community, itself named after the Plan de Ayutla. Archaeologists consider Plan de Ayutla as a very strong candidate for the ancient site of \"Sak Tz'i',\" which means \"White Dog\". Alternatively, the site could be the ancient \"Ak'e\", which means \"Turtle\".\n\nPlan de Ayutla is in the Upper Usumacinta area, about from the small community of the same name as the site. It is in a mountainous area of the Lacandon Jungle known as the Sierra de Jalapa. The site is part of the municipality of Ocosingo, State of Chiapas in southeast Mexico, close to the border with Guatemala. It is about northwest of the Bonampak.\n\nArchaeologists consider that Plan de Ayutla may be one of two ancient sites known from inscriptions found elsewhere: Ak'e or Sak Tz'i'. So far, no conclusive evidence has been found as to the identity of the site.\n\nThe case for Sak Tz'i' is considered stronger by the archaeologist in charge (as of 2013) of the site, Luis Alberto Martos López. He notes that ancient Sak Tz'i' was involved in wars with Yaxchilan, Bonampak-Lacanha, Tonina and Piedras Negras. Plan de Ayutla is in a location that is between all these sites. Martos also posits that the last inscription from the region dates from 854 and mentions Sak Tz'i' at a time when there is still evidence of occupation and construction at Plan de Ayutla. Finally, on some looted panels recovered from the region, a lord of Sak Tz'i' is styled a \"Ballplayer.\" This title would especially make sense if Sak Tz'i' was indeed Plan de Ayutla, since it is the site of the largest ballcourt in the region (see below).\n\nSak Tz'i' had important ties to Piedras Negras at several points in its history. Plan de Ayutla's North Acropolis is very similar to the Grand Acropolis of Piedras Negras, which could be an indicator of an important link between the two sites.\n\nThe case for Ak'e takes into account that the identification of Ak'e as the exclusive emblem glyph Bonampak is problematic, and that the ruling dynasty of this city may have come from elsewhere - perhaps Plan de Ayutla - before installing itself at Bonampak. This would explain why Plan de Ayala also shares important architectural features with Tonina, overlord of Bonampak, such as the layout of the ballcourt, column shaped altars and roof ornaments on Structure 13.\n\nAgainst this theory, archaeologists note that Plan de Ayutla's double-gallery buildings are similar to those of nearby Ojo de Agua and Nuevo Jalisco, and dissimilar to those of Bonampak and its neighbor, Lacanha. These differences may indicate different political entities.\n\nThe first architectural evidence at the site dates from ca. 150 B.C.E., but evidence of an urban settlement appears sometime after ca. 50 B.C.E The discovery of an ancient residential complex dating from somewhere between 50 B.C.E. and 50 C.E. makes Plan de Ayutla the earliest occupied city in the Upper Usumacinta region so far.\n\nIf Plan de Ayutla was indeed Sak Tz'i', its history is tied to the political turmoil that was particularly intense in the region between 600 and 800 C.E. A stela from Piedras Negras depicts the capture of Lord K'ab' Chan Te' of Sak Tz'i' in 628. Epigraphy around these events is not conclusive. One hypothesis argues for the survival of K'ab' Chan Te' as a vassal of Piedras Negras who then aids his new overlord against Bonampak and La Mar in 641. Another theory has K'ab' Chan Te' surviving but then retaliating against Piedras Negras, Bonampak and La Mar, defeating at least the latter two sites. To make matters more complicated, the K'ab' Chan Te' mentioned 641 may be another ruler of the same name, since K'ab' Chan Te' is a recurring name among Sak Tz'i rulers. In any case, either as a vassal or an opponent of Piedras Negras, Sak Tz'i' ruled a polity extending from at least La Mar to Bonampak in the seventh century.\n\nAj Sak Maax was the ruler of Sak Tz'i' from the 750s and at least until 772. During his reign, the site of El Cayo appears to be subordinate to both Sak Tz'i' and Piedras Negras. This would place Sak Tz'i' as either an ally or a vassal of Piedras Negras that in turn was lord of El Cayo.\n\nAj Sak Maax was no longer king in 787 when Yete' K'inich of Sak Tz'i' had two of his lords captured in what appears to have been a rebellion by its former vassal Bonampak with assistance from Yaxchilan. These are the events that are commemorated at the famous murals of Bonampak. At some point after 789, Tonina attacked Jats' Tokal Ek' Hiix, then ruler of Sak Tz'i'.\n\nEvidence of fine paste ceramics appears at Plan de Ayutla during the last phase of construction around 800-850 AD. These ceramics are associated with Chontal. Around 850 C.E. Plan de Ayutla seems to have been governed by a \"multepal\" or ruling council, as was happening in other cities at the time. The destruction of the likely seat of this government may indicate the attempts of a new ruling dynasty to come to power. The last inscription from the region mentions a vassal of yet another K'ab' Chan Te' of Sak Tz'i' in 864. The new dynasty must have failed, and the city was abandoned violently between 1000 and 1100 C.E.\n\nThe site has been known to the Lacandon people for some time. After hearing reports of the site, archaeologist Peter Schmidt was guided by them to Plan the Ayutla. He published the first report of the site in 1975. The site lay ignored by archaeologists until Alejandro Tovalin of the Bonampak project made a new visit in 1994. In 2001 the local community began clearing the jungle around the site hoping to make it attractive to tourists and requested a visit by archaeologists. This led to another visit and eventually to formal excavations starting in 2003 under Luis Alberto Martos López. Tovalín had only reported on the North Acropolis, but in 2004 Martos realized that it was only one of three.\n\nRestoration work began in 2008 and has focused on the North Acropolis and the Ballcourt, with the aim of opening the site to the public in 2012.\n\nThe extent of the site is no more than , however, the core is only a third of that. 72 buildings are spread out throughout the site. The core of the site was built around three natural hills that were built up into three acropolises. The intervening spaces between and around them became three main plazas, used for civic and religious activities. These three plazas can be subdivides into seven smaller ones. The better preserved buildings are on the acropolises, while the plazas are surrounded by mounds of rubble and dirt.\n\nThe architecture shares affinities with other sites such as Yaxchilan, Palenque, Lacanha and Bonampak but nevertheless also has unique elements. The key example of these is Structure 13 on the North Acropolis (see below).\n\nThe site was subjected to heavy looting, which damaged many of the structures. All stelae have been removed and the lack of inscriptions of the site is notable.\n\nThis plaza is divided into two by two steps and a rectangular building.\n\n\nA large plaza occupies the center of the site, with two separate spaces named in Tzeltal: \"Alan\" (Lower) and \"Muku'l\" (Great). Muku'l occupies the space between North and East Acropolises. South of Plaza Alan are Plazas \"Tut\" (Small) and \"Beja' \" (of the \"Arroyo\" or stream). The latter is named after a ravine that crosses it. Plaza \"Tonna' \" (of the Stone Houses) extends northeast from Plaza Muku'l and has four residential complexes around it.\n\nThe North Acropolis is a Maya \"Palace\", a complex that includes elite dwellings, temples and spaces for meetings. It was built around a natural hill that was modified to accommodate the structures. The hill measures in height, and at least 19 structures were built on it. On the north side, a series of four structures on rising terraces makes the acropolis similar to that of Piedras Negras. The presence of fine-paste ceramics and other items on the complex indicates that it was occupied through the Late Classic.\n\nIn 2012, a theater dating from the Terminal Classic (ca. 800-900 C.E.) was discovered here. A patio surrounded by buildings dating from 250-500 C.E. was customised to make way for three wide bleachers. The external wall of another structure was demolished to make way for a stage. Judging by its size and location, it was intended for a select group of 120 people at most. The theater may have been part of a program to legitimise a new dynasty at Plan de Ayutla that seems to have come to power around 850 C.E. At the same structure, a bath for a member of the elite was discovered, complete with a drainage system. It is one of only four discovered in Mexico that date from pre-Hispanic times (the others being at Palenque, Tonina and Teotihuacan). Ceramics used to hold water for the bath were discovered in an adjoining room.\n\nAlso, in 2011, the remains of an earlier patio surrounded by residential structures were discovered under later buildings of the acropolis, dating from between 50 B.C.E. and 50 C.E. These kind of constructions have not been found at other sites in the region until ca. 250 C.E. The structures have rounded corners, a feature of early Maya architecture. Most of the buildings had their upper parts torn down and used to fill the earlier structure with rubble in order to build the more recent structures.\n\n\n\nAlso built on an adapted natural hill, the acropolis consists of four buildings around a central plaza. Archaeologists suspect that a staircase once descended to the southeast, towards Plaza Tut. A burial has been found at the foot of this possible stairway, with the presence of fine paste ceramics that associate it with the Late Classic. The exact nature of this complex has not been determined, but the massive Structure 58 suggests residential use, while a looted tomb suggests funerary use.\n\n\nThe tallest acropolis was built into a ridge that extends from the southwest, and that is tall at the site of the ruins. The small spaces here lead archaeologists to believe it was for the use of a select elite, while the nature of the structures indicate religious use.\n\n"}
{"id": "1556589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1556589", "title": "Quicklaw", "text": "Quicklaw\n\nLexisNexis Quicklaw is a Canadian electronic legal research database that provides court decisions from all levels, news reports, provincial and federal statutes, journals, and other legal commentary. It also offers a case citator and case digests.\nIn 2002 Quicklaw was purchased by LexisNexis and is now a subsidiary of LexisNexis Canada.\n\nLexisNexis Quicklaw is used by lawyers and law firms in Canada to access case law, legislation, exclusive current awareness services, expert commentary and more.\n\nIn addition to research, the LexisNexis Quicklaw service also includes citation tools to help lawyers and law firms validate the authority of cases, find summaries of judicial considerations, along with treatment and pinpoint references.\n\nLexisNexis Quicklaw is composed several products, providing legal practitioners with the access they need to perform their research.\n\n\n\nDesigned for practices that focus on particular legal segments, LexisNexis Quicklaw Essentials provides all the content needed to research those areas.\n\nWestlaw/eCarswell - offers similar fee-based services. \n\nCanLii.org - is a non-profit organization managed by the Federation of Law Societies of Canada. CanLII's goal is to make Canadian law accessible for free on the Internet. This website provides access to court judgments, tribunal decisions, statutes and regulations from all Canadian jurisdictions. Canlii is part of the collaboration of Legal Information Institute's around the world which include AustLII, BaiLII, LII, etc.\n\n"}
{"id": "28351587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28351587", "title": "Ripley's Believe It or Not Annual", "text": "Ripley's Believe It or Not Annual\n\nRipley’s Believe It or Not! Annual is a hardback reference book of unusual stories and images. The books consist of hundreds of snippets and longer in-depth articles, illustrated with glossy photographs. Twelve books have been produced since 2005 and they are published worldwide by Ripley Publishing. The Ripley’s annual has featured on the \"New York Times\" bestseller list on multiple occasions.\n\n\"Ripley’s Believe It or Not!\" (2005) \n\n\"Planet Eccentric (2006)\" \n\n\"Expect the Unexpected\" (2007) \n\n\"The Remarkable Revealed\" (2008) \n\n\"Prepare to be Shocked\" (2009) \n\n\"Seeing is Believing\" (2010) \n\n\"Enter If You Dare!\" (2011) \n\n\"Strikingly True\" (2012) \n\n\"Dare to Look!\" (2013) \n\n\"Download the Weird\" (2014) \n\n\"Reality Shock!\" (2015) \n\n\"Eye-popping Oddities\" (2016) \n\n\"Unlock the Weird\" (2017) \n\n\"Shatter Your Senses!\" (2018) \n\nGuinness Rishi\nChayne Hultgren \"The Space Cowboy\"\nDan Meyer\nBrian Dettmer \nHerbert Nitsch \nUeli Gegenschatz \nKhagendra Thapa Magar \nErik Sprague\n\n"}
{"id": "1318622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1318622", "title": "Samuel Irving Newhouse Jr.", "text": "Samuel Irving Newhouse Jr.\n\nSamuel Irving \"S.I.\" Newhouse Jr. (November 8, 1927 – October 1, 2017) was an American heir to a substantial magazine and media business. Together with his brother Donald, he owned Advance Publications, founded by their late father in 1922, whose properties include Condé Nast (publisher of such magazines as \"Vogue\", \"Vanity Fair\", \"The New Yorker\", etc.), dozens of newspapers across the United States (including \"The Star-Ledger\", \"The Plain Dealer\", \"The Oregonian\", etc.), former cable company Bright House Networks, and a controlling stake in Discovery Communications.\n\nHe was the son of Mitzi (née Epstein) and Samuel Irving Newhouse Sr., the founder of Advance Publications. Sam Newhouse Sr. had been the young editor of the \"Bayonne Times\" and when he asked the owner of the Times for a raise he had long deserved, he was refused. Sam then quit the Times to become associated with the Staten Island paper that formed the basis of his publication future. Newhouse attended the Horace Mann School in New York City.\n\nPrior to his death, he had an estimated net worth of $9.5 billion, and he was ranked the 46th richest American by \"Forbes\" magazine in 2014.\n\nNewhouse gave money to charity, including $15 million to Syracuse University. He was also an art collector, who at one time owned one of the most valuable paintings in the world, a Jackson Pollock drip painting, titled \"No. 5, 1948\". Newhouse was listed by \"Art News\" as among the top 200 art collectors in the world.\n\nHe was married to Jane Franke from 1951–59, and they had three children, Sam, Wynn (died 2010), and Pamela. His parents were deeply disappointed by the divorce. In 1973, he married Victoria Carrington Benedict de Ramel, who survived him. His grandson, S.I. Newhouse IV, appeared in the documentary \"Born Rich\".\n\nNewhouse died on October 1, 2017 at the age of 89.\n\n"}
{"id": "84371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=84371", "title": "Savoy opera", "text": "Savoy opera\n\nSavoy opera was a style of comic opera that developed in Victorian England in the late 19th century, with W. S. Gilbert and Arthur Sullivan as the original and most successful practitioners. The name is derived from the Savoy Theatre, which impresario Richard D'Oyly Carte built to house the Gilbert and Sullivan pieces, and later, those by other composer–librettist teams. The great bulk of the non-G&S Savoy Operas either failed to achieve a foothold in the standard repertory, or have faded over the years, leaving the term \"Savoy Opera\" as practically synonymous with Gilbert and Sullivan. The Savoy operas (in both senses) were seminal influences on the creation of the modern musical.\n\nGilbert, Sullivan, Carte and other Victorian era British composers, librettists and producers, as well as the contemporary British press and literature, called works of this kind \"comic operas\" to distinguish their content and style from that of the often risqué continental European operettas that they wished to displace. Most of the published literature on Gilbert and Sullivan since that time refers to these works as \"Savoy Operas\", \"comic operas\", or both. However, the \"Penguin Opera Guides\" and many other general music dictionaries and encyclopedias classify the Gilbert and Sullivan works as operettas.\n\n\"Patience\" (1881) was the first opera to appear at the Savoy Theatre, and thus, in a strict sense, the first true \"Savoy Opera\", although the term \"Savoy Opera\" has, for over a century, included the complete set of thirteen operas that Gilbert and Sullivan wrote for Richard D'Oyly Carte:\n\nDuring the years when the Gilbert and Sullivan (“G&S”) operas were being written, Richard D'Oyly Carte produced operas by other composer–librettist teams, either as curtain raisers to the G&S pieces, or to fill the theatre when no G&S piece was available. To their contemporaries, the term \"Savoy Opera\" referred to any opera that appeared at that theatre, regardless of who wrote it.\n\nAside from curtain raisers (which are listed in the second table below), the G&S operas were the only works produced at the Savoy Theatre from the date it opened (10 October 1881) until \"The Gondoliers\" closed on 20 June 1891. Over the next decade, there were only two new G&S pieces (\"Utopia Limited\" and \"The Grand Duke\"), both of which had comparatively brief runs. To fill the gap, Carte mounted G&S revivals, Sullivan operas with different librettists, and works by other composer–librettist teams. Richard D'Oyly Carte died on 3 April 1901. If the nexus of Carte and the Savoy Theatre is used to define \"Savoy Opera,\" then the last new Savoy Opera was \"The Rose of Persia\" (music by Sullivan, libretto by Basil Hood), which ran from 28 November 1899 – 28 June 1900.\nAfter Carte's death, his wife Helen Carte assumed management of the theatre. She continued to produce new pieces in the G&S style, along with G&S revivals. Counting the pieces that Mrs. D'Oyly Carte and the D'Oyly Carte Opera Company produced, the last Savoy Opera was \"A Princess of Kensington\" (music by Edward German, libretto by Basil Hood), which ran for four months in early 1903. This is the point that Cyril Rollins and R. John Witts adopt as the end of the Savoy Operas. After \"A Princess of Kensington\", Mrs. D'Oyly Carte relinquished control of the theatre until 8 December 1906, when she produced two seasons of G&S revivals in repertory, with Gilbert returning to direct.\n\nIn March 1909, Charles H. Workman assumed control of the theatre, producing three new pieces, including one by Gilbert himself, \"Fallen Fairies\" (music by Edward German). The last of these Workman-produced works came in early 1910, \"Two Merry Monarchs\", by Arthur Anderson, George Levy, and Hartley Carrick, with music by Orlando Morgan. The contemporary press referred to these works as \"Savoy Operas\", and S. J. Adair Fitz-Gerald regarded Workman's pieces as the last Savoy Operas.\n\nFitz-Gerald wrote his book, \"The Story of the Savoy Opera\", in 1924, when these other pieces were still within living memory. But over time, all of the works produced at the Savoy by composers and librettists other than Gilbert and Sullivan were largely forgotten. The term \"Savoy Opera\" came to be synonymous with the thirteen extant works of Gilbert and Sullivan. The first collaboration of Gilbert and Sullivan—the 1871 opera \"Thespis\"—was not a Savoy Opera under any of the definitions mentioned to this point, as Richard D'Oyly Carte did not produce it, nor was it ever performed at the Savoy Theatre. Given its lack of a D'Oyly Carte or Savoy connection, \"Thespis\" has a tenuous claim to be a \"Savoy Opera.\" However, Rollins & Witts include it in their compendium of the Savoy Operas, as does Geoffrey Smith. The \"Oxford English Dictionary\" defines the phrase as: \"Designating any of the Gilbert and Sullivan operas originally presented at the Savoy Theatre in London by the D'Oyly Carte company. Also used more generally to designate any of the Gilbert and Sullivan operas, including those first presented before the Savoy Theatre opened in 1881, or to designate any comic opera of a similar style which appeared at the theatre\".\n\nThe following table shows all of the full-length operas that could be considered \"Savoy Operas\" under any of the definitions mentioned above. Only first runs are shown. Curtain-raisers and afterpieces that played with the Savoy Operas are included in the next table below.\n\nThe fashion in the late Victorian era and Edwardian era was to present long evenings in the theatre, and so full-length pieces were often presented together with companion pieces. During the original runs of the Savoy Operas, each full-length work was normally accompanied by one or two short companion pieces. A piece that began the performance was called a curtain raiser, and one that ended the performance was called an afterpiece. W. J. MacQueen-Pope commented, concerning the curtain raisers:\n\nThis was a one-act play, seen only by the early comers. It would play to empty boxes, half-empty upper circle, to a gradually filling stalls and dress circle, but to an attentive, grateful and appreciative pit and gallery. Often these plays were little gems. They deserved much better treatment than they got, but those who saw them delighted in them. …[They] served to give young actors and actresses a chance to win their spurs…the stalls and the boxes lost much by missing the curtain-raiser, but to them dinner was more important.\n\nThe following table lists the known companion pieces that appeared at the Opera Comique or the Savoy Theatre during the original runs and principal revivals of the Savoy Operas through 1909. There may have been more such pieces that have not yet been identified. In a number of cases, the exact opening and closing dates are not known. Date ranges overlap, since it was common to rotate two or more companion pieces at performances during the same period to be played with the main piece.\n\nMany of these pieces also played elsewhere (and often on tour by D'Oyly Carte touring companies). Only the runs at the Opera Comique and the Savoy are shown here.\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki>Indicates an approximate date.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1237259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1237259", "title": "Seventh son of a seventh son", "text": "Seventh son of a seventh son\n\nThe seventh son of a seventh son is a concept from folklore regarding special powers given to, or held by, such a son. The seventh son must come from an unbroken line with no female siblings born between and, in turn, be born to such a seventh son. The number has a long history of mystical and biblical significance: seven virtues, seven deadly sins, Seven Sleepers, seven days of creation, etc. In this case, it refers to a man who is the seventh son of a man who is himself a seventh son.\n\nIn some beliefs, the special powers are inborn, inherited simply by virtue of his birth order; in others the powers are granted to him by God or the gods because of his birth order.\n\nThe seventh son of a seventh son is gifted as a healer. The seventh son of a seventh son is part of a more general phenomenon known as the \"cure\" (sometimes also called the \"charm\").\n\nAccording to Kendall's \"Travels through the Northern Parts of the United States, in the year 1807–1808\" while visiting the Newgate copper mine and prison, the author met an innkeep who told him that \"there was to be found in the surrounding hills, a black stone, of a certain species, through which a seventh son of a seventh son, born in the month of February, with a caul on his head, can discern everything that lies in the depths and interior of the globe.\" The author speculates that the importance of mining to the community gave rise to this localized belief.\n\nAmerican author Jackson Pearce uses the folklore around seventh sons in her novel \"Sisters Red\", in which potential werewolves are seventh sons of seventh sons.\n\nIt is believed that he will be a werewolf, \"lobizón\" or \"lobisomem\" (the word in Portuguese language that means \"werewolf\"). To stop the curse the newborn should be baptized in seven different churches, or be baptized by the name of \"Benito\" while the eldest son is his godfather. It is important to note that the local myth of the \"lobizón\" is not connected to the custom that began over 100 years ago by which every seventh son (or seventh daughter) born in Argentina becomes godchild to the president.\n\n\"Ciarallo\" was the seventh son who had the power to enchant and recall snakes, and who was immune to snake venom. It wasn't enough to be a seventh son but was needed a special initiation rite called \"inciaramazione\". Recourse was made to Ciarallo when a snake sneaked into the house and it is said that the reptile was promptly attracted by the sound of his whistle. Another social task of Ciarallo was \"inciaramare\" other people by spreading a special oil, complete with a special recipe, on the arm of those who requested the treatment to ensure protection from snakes bites. Children were led to Ciarallo by their mothers to get protection.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36757433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36757433", "title": "Stephanie Leigh Batiste", "text": "Stephanie Leigh Batiste\n\nStephanie Leigh Batiste is an American academic, author, and performance artist. She is currently associate professor in the Departments of English and Black Studies at the University of California, Santa Barbara (UCSB).\n\nBatiste earned an AB in sociology with minors in African American Studies and Theater from Princeton University in 1994. She was awarded her Masters and PhD in American Studies from George Washington University in 1999 and 2003 respectively. She is also a performance artist, the author and original performer of \"Stacks of Obits\".\n\nFrom 2002 to 2007, Batiste was an Assistant Professor at Carnegie Mellon University presenting lectures through Carnegie Mellon's Center for Africanamerican Urban Studies and the Economy. From 2004 to 2005, Batiste was a faculty fellow, Research Institute for the Comparative Study of Race and Ethnicity at Stanford University. In 2007 she left Carnegie Mellon for a position at UCSB, and from 2009 has been Associate Professor of Black Studies and English. Her scholarly perspective construes \"the relationships between representation, performance, identity, race, and power. Her research and teaching focus on the ways in which cultural texts, like literature, theater, performance, film, art, and bodies, act as imaginative systems that create identity, cultural values, human interactions, and possibilities of justice. In 2011-12, Batiste was Acting Chair of the Black Studies Department in the Social Sciences and Humanities at UCSB.\n\nIn an overview derived from writings by Stephanie Batiste, OCLC/WorldCat encompasses several works and publications, including the following:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42282669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42282669", "title": "Symbolic religiosity", "text": "Symbolic religiosity\n\nSymbolic religiosity is a term coined by sociologist Herbert Gans.\n\nGans explores the concept of symbolic religiosity as a concept parallel to, although separate from symbolic ethnicity. To Gans, symbolic religiosity is religious behavior detached from any comprehensive religious observance or religious affiliation.\n"}
{"id": "39130150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39130150", "title": "Tell Mekhada", "text": "Tell Mekhada\n\nTell Mekhada is an archaeological site 400m southwest of Nebaa Faour in the Beqaa Mohafazat (Governorate). It dates at least to the Neolithic.\n"}
{"id": "55184452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55184452", "title": "The lamb and lion", "text": "The lamb and lion\n\n\"The lamb with the lion\" – often a paraphrase from Isaiah, and more closely quoted as \"the wolf and lamb\", \"a child will lead them\", and the like – are an artistic and symbolic device, most generally related to peace.\n\nThe symbol is used in both Christianity and Judaism to represent the Messianic Age. In addition, in Christianity, according to a sermon by Augustine, the lion stands for Christ resurrected, the lamb for Christ's sacrifice (\"He endured death as a lamb; he devoured it as a lion.\"—Augustine, Sermon 375A).\n\nAlthough Isaiah 35:2 casts a lion metaphorically as forbidden in the future paradise (\"No lion shall be there, nor any ravenous beast shall go up thereon, it shall not be found there; but the redeemed shall walk there\"); in ,7, Isaiah references such formerly ravenous beasts as become peaceable: \"The wolf will live with the lamb, the leopard will lie down with the goat, the calf and the lion and the yearling together; and a little child will lead them. The cow will feed with the bear, their young will lie down together, and the lion will eat straw like the ox.\"\n\n\"In like a lion, out like a lamb\" is a proverb having to do with March weather. It has been speculated that its origin is from astrological Leo (lion) being followed by Aries ([kid] goat).\n\nIn the 1830s, American Quaker artist Edward Hicks began painting a series of paintings on the theme of the Peaceable Kingdom.\n\nThe kingdom-of-peace motif has been popular among various so-called Christian \"Restorationist\" groups. For example:\n\nA number of \"peace\" gardens or fountains at Jewsish, Catholic, and Protestant places of worship contain statuary containing the lamb and lion. In 1987, the Lion & Lamb Peace Arts Center was established at Mennonite Bluffton University.\n\nHumorist Josh Billings (1818–1885): \"The lion and the lamb may possibly sometimes lie down together; but if you'll notice carefully, when the lion gets up, the lamb is generally missing.\" Attributed to Woody Allen: \"I've always liked, someday the lamb will lay by the lion ... but it won't get much sleep.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "4718427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4718427", "title": "Vladimir Veličković", "text": "Vladimir Veličković\n\nVladimir Veličković (; born 11 August 1935) is a prominent Serbian painter.\n\nVeličković graduated from the Faculty of Architecture at Belgrade University. From 1963 to 1966, he was an assistant in Krsto Hegedušić’s master workshop in Zagreb. In 1965, he was honoured with a prize at the Biennale in Paris, where he moved to the following year and continues to live and work to this day. Veličković gained public attention in 1967 with an exhibition at the Galerie du Dragon in Paris, which established him as one of the leading artists of the Narrative Figuration art movement. In 1983 he was elected professor at the \"École nationale supérieure des Beaux-Arts\" in Paris, and taught there until 2000. In 1985 he was elected a member of Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts (SANU) and Honorable doctor of science at University of Kragujevac. He was honoured with the highest French award in the field of culture and arts, the Commander of the Ordre des Arts et des Lettres. His paintings were exhibited in many countries in Europe and Americas since 1951.\n\nSince 7 December 2005 he is a member of Académie des Beaux-Arts, section I, seat number 7.\n\nVeličković has had many solo exhibitions in Europe, Asia and North America.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37750583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37750583", "title": "Withrow Minstrels", "text": "Withrow Minstrels\n\nThe Withrow Minstrels was a popular musical variety show that ran for 35 years at Withrow High School, Cincinnati, Ohio. It was known as \"The Minstrels\". 200 performances were staged, between 1931 and 1965.\n\nThe Minstrels was created in 1931 by the school’s 22-year-old band director, George G. \"Smittie\" Smith, and performed under \"Smittie’s\" direction each year in the late spring. The Minstrels is recognized as one of the nation’s first high school performing arts programs. At the first performance in May,1931, The depression era crowd was thrilled by the polish and professionalism of the cast of 12- to 17-year-old kids [until 1970 the six Cincinnati public high schools comprised grades seven to twelve]. The curtain closed on the last performance on Saturday, May 8, 1965, when Smittie retired from teaching (Enquirer, 6/26/1982). It initially ran for 6 nights, always drawing sell-out crowds in excess of 2000 people per performance. (Enquirer, 5/12/60). In 1956 the Cincinnati Board of Education ordered the school to cut performances to 5 nights, citing \"concern\" that the show took up too much student time.\n\nThe centerpiece of The Minstrels was the Withrow Presentation Orchestra, a 60 piece, Paul Whiteman style (American Musicians II, pp 497–8) big band composed of brass, woodwinds, strings, and percussion [drums, tympani, chimes, vibraphone]. This swing orchestra performed polished renditions of tin-pan alley and other contemporary music in accompaniment to student vocal and dance performance. Elaborate staging featured sophisticated lighting and special effects. (Cincinnati Post, 7/17/85). All aspects of the sets and lighting were constructed and wired by students (Cincinnati Post, 7/17/85). Student performances ranged from solos to complex, multi-number themed production numbers involving solo singers, solo dancers, ensemble singing, special effects, and a Rockettes style “pony chorus”. Each show ran almost three hours without intermission.\n\nNo stock sheet music was used in The Minstrels (Cincinnati Enquirer, 5/12/60). Smittie personally arranged every instrumental note of every show, and Ansel C. Martin, the school’s Choir Director, arranged all vocal scores. Every arrangement was unique to The Withrow Minstrels.\n\nRussell Dale Flick, writing in The Cincinnati Post, observed that “Smittie’s Minstrels gave many of his student performers their one-and-only exposure to the bright lights, costumes, make-up, and rapturous applause of the musical stage”.\n\nIn his book \"American Musicians II: Seventy-One Portraits in Jazz\", noted jazz critic Whitney Balliett quotes the noted bass player Michael Moore (bassist),who performed in the Withrow Presentation Orchestra while a student at Withrow High School: \"I became part of the Withrow Minstrels, a high-caliber musical organization ... run by George Smith ... a legend in Cincinnati ... his shows were practically Paul Whiteman Productions.\" \n\nSheet music from The Withrow Minstrels of 1934 is in The Library of Congress in Washington, D.C.\n\nRepresentative Numbers from the Withrow Minstrels\n\nOutstanding musicians heard in Minstrels include, on brass: Bruce Rhoten, Herman Wilson, Nick Weber, Ray Craycraft. R. Thomas Davidson, Jay Ferguson, Dick Todd; Reeds: Richard C. Johnson, Elbert \"Skip\" Haungs, Dave Pfeiffer, Ron Davisson; Bass: Michael Moore; Percussion: Tom Walker, Greg Eversull, Ted Ruffin, Stephen R.S. Martin.\n\nThe thematic material for the Opening from the 1958 &1963 Minstrels was taken from the First and Fourth Movements of the Tchaikovsky Fourth Symphony. After the climax was reached, the tempo and character changed abruptly with a harp glissando modulating into “My Heart at That Sweet Voice” by Camille Saint-Saëns, featuring saxophones, woodwinds, and strings. The Opening in 1960 was brought to a close as the Lovette Trio, Choir and Male Chorus, and Opening Ponies were introduced in Youman’s “Hallelujah”\n\nMinstreleers who went on to distinguished entertainment careers include Carole Black, CEO and President of Lifetime Entertainment; R&B singer Otis Williams, of Otis Williams and the Charms; prominent jazz bassist and composer Michael Moore (bassist), who has worked with, among others, Woody Herman, Bob Brookmeyer, Zoot Sims, Chet Baker,the Benny Goodman Carnegie Hall Reunion Concert, Herb Ellis, and the Dave Brubeck Quartet; Bruce Rhoten, Principal Trumpet of the NDR Radiophilharmonie; and Richard Johnson, Principal Oboe Emeritus of the Cincinnati Symphony Orchestra.\n\nRecordings of the Minstrels shows 1955 to 1965 can be obtained from the Withrow Alumni Association, http://www.withrowalumni.com/ .\n\n"}
