{"id": "23047742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23047742", "title": "2-Acetylaminofluorene", "text": "2-Acetylaminofluorene\n\n2-Acetylaminofluorene (AAF, 2-AAF) is a carcinogenic and mutagenic derivative of fluorene. It is used as a biochemical tool in the study of carcinogenesis. It induces tumors in a number of species in the liver, bladder and kidney. The metabolism of this compound in the body by means of biotransformation reactions is the key to its carcinogenicity. 2-AAF is a substrate for cytochrome P-450 (CYP) enzyme, which is a part of a super family found in almost all organisms. This reaction results in the formation of hydroxyacetylaminofluorene which is a proximal carcinogen and is more potent than the parent molecule. The \"N\"-hydroxy metabolite undergoes several enzymatic and non-enzymatic rearrangements. It can be O-acetylated by cytosolic N-acetyltransferase enzyme to yield \"N\"-acetyl-\"N\"-acetoxyaminofluorene. This intermediate can spontaneously rearrange to form the arylamidonium ion and a carbonium ion which can interact directly with DNA to produce DNA adducts. In addition to esterification by acetylation, the \"N\"-hydroxy derivative can be \"O\"-sulfated by cytosolic sulfur transferase enzyme giving rise to the \"N\"-acetyl-\"N\"-sulfoxy product.\n\nIn addition, the cytosolic \"N\",\"O\"-aryl hydroxamic acid acyltransferase enzyme catalyzes the transfer of the acetyl group from the N atom of the N-OH-2-AAF to the O atom of the N-OH group to produce N-acetoxy-2-aminofluorene (N-OH-2-AF). This reactive metabolite spontaneously decomposes to form a nitrenium ion which will also react with DNA. However, the product of this latter reaction is the deacetylated aminofluorene adduct. The interconversion of amide and amine metabolites of 2-AAF can further occur via the microsomal enzyme deacetylase producing the \"N\"-hydroxy metabolite of the amine derivative. Subsequent esterification of the aryl hydroxylamine by sulfur transferase yields the sulfate ester which also spontaneously decompose to form nitrenium ion. The reactive nitrenium, carbonium and arylamidonium ion metabolites of 2-AAF react with the nucleophilic groups in DNA, proteins and endogenous thiols like glutathione. Other metabolites such as the \"N\",\"O\"-glucuronide, although not directly activated products, can be important in the carcinogenic process because they are capable of degradation to proximal \"N\"-hydroxy metabolites. This metabolite is presumed to be involved in formation of bladder tumors. The mechanism for this is thought to involve degradation of glucuronide in the bladder due to acidic pH of urine.\n\n"}
{"id": "40919952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40919952", "title": "2013 Taiwan food scandal", "text": "2013 Taiwan food scandal\n\nThe 2013 Taiwan food scandal refers to food safety incidents in the Republic of China (Taiwan) that began in October 2013. Affected products included cooking oil, health pills, alcoholic beverages, milk and rice.\n\nChang Chi Foodstuff Factory Co. () was found to have used copper chlorophyllin, an illegal coloring agent for cooking oil, in its olive oil and have adulterated its higher-end cooking oil with cheaper cottonseed oil. The company was fined NT$ 28.6 million in accordance to the Act Governing Food Sanitation after authorities have found that their products had been adulterated. In December 2013 company chairman Kao Chen-li was sentenced to sixteen years in prison for his role in the scandal. The company was also mandated to pay a further NT$50 million fine. A NT$1.85 billion fine levied by the Changhua County Public Health Bureau was annulled in July 2014 because Kao and two other company executives had already been jailed. Kao Tsung-hsien of the Ministry of Health and Welfare’s Administrative Appeal Committee stated:\n\nFlavor Full Food Inc. () was accused of blending cheaper cottonseed oil into more expensive cooking oils to increase their profit. On 26 October 2013, the company admitted of their wrongdoings through health officials. The company had adulterated 24 of its products sold in Taiwan with cheaper cottonseed oil, and also added flavoring agents to one of its peanut oil products. The company had been fined NT$ 8 million for 25 violations. The former chairman and his brother were each sentenced to sixteen months in prison and ordered to pay NT$25 million in September 2014. The company itself was ordered to pay a further NT$5 million fine.\n\nFormosa Oilseed Processing Co. () was found to intentionally mislabel their six cooking oil mixtures as pure olive oils. The company general manager issued an apology saying that the company will stop selling the small-package olive oil. The company was fined NT$ 15 million.\n\nThe weight-loss pills manufactured by the Geneherbs Biotechnology Co. () were found to contain unauthorized drugs. The pills product called the Wellslim Plus+ contains cetilistat, a lipase inhibitor designed to treat obesity.\n\nIn early November, sodium copper chlorophyllin was found on Wu Mu () steamed spinach ramen noodles brand manufactured by Sing-Lin Foods Corporation ().\n\nOn 20 November 2013, the Food and Drug Administration of Ministry of Health and Welfare confirmed the grapeseed oil made by Taisun Enterprise Co. () contains the prohibited food additive copper chlorophyllin complex.\n\nThe contents of 11 out of 12 alcohol products manufactured by Ta lien Alcohol Company () were found not to match the ingredients listed on their labels as announced by the Department of Finance of Changhua County Government on 28 October 2013. The company was fined NT$ 5.5 million.\n\nThe chairman of Ting Hsin International Group () was indicted in early November 2013 on fraud charges because of mislabeling products and violating the Act Governing Food Sanitation in connection to adulterated oil purchased from Chang Chi Foodstuff Factory Co.\n\nWei Chuan Food Corp () were found to be involved in an adulterated cooking oil scandal. The chairman of the company offered a public apology during a press conference on 5 November 2013.\n\nROC President – On 23 October 2013, President Ma Ying-jeou pledged to strengthen inspection on food and beverage manufacturers and severely punish those with altered food products. He also ordered the Ministry of Health and Welfare to hold a national food safety conference in November 2013 to address the issues.\n\nExecutive Yuan – The Executive Yuan had announced that it is setting up a joint food safety inspection and control team between the yuan and Ministry of Health and Welfare and Council of Agriculture.\n\nROC Ministry of Health and Welfare (MOHW) – On 23 October 2013, Minister Chiu Wen-ta said that he took full responsibility for cracking down the 'black-hearted' food suppliers.\n\n\nROC Minister of Economic Affairs (MOEA) – Vice Minister Woody Duh said that the MOEA Industrial Development Bureau is reviewing the Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) system and might require a manufacturer to present its export and import invoices and declarations and to allow on-the-spot inspection for its production line when it seek certification. He said that the MOEA will ensure that the GMP is a guarantee for safety, and without it consumers will be exposed more to unsafe foods.\n\nROC Environmental Protection Administration – Minister Stephen Shen said on 28 October that he would instruct local cleaning squads to accept and recycle oil bottles that still contain the adulterated oil.\n\nDemocratic Progressive Party – Former Chairman Shih Ming-teh said on 24 October 2013 that he and his friends would file a class-action lawsuit against Flavor Full Food Inc. to seek compensation over its adulterated oil products because his household's organic sesame oil was all from the company. Any compensation he receives from the lawsuit will be donated to charity organizations.\n\nIn Mainland China, a food distributor in Fujian filed a lawsuit against Chang Chi Foodstuff Factory Co. to seek damages for compensation. Xiamen had ordered 40,000 liters of cooking oil made by Chang Chi Foodstuff Factory Co. to be removed from shelves and stepped up inspections on edible oil products purchased from Taiwan.\n\nSingaporean food suppliers that source from Taiwan cooking oil companies involved in the food scandal were ordered to hold their shipping by the Government of Singapore on 22 October 2013.\n\nIn United States, stores removed all Taiwanese foods tainted by the chemicals and other questionable products off the shelves.\n"}
{"id": "35457164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35457164", "title": "ADPF 54", "text": "ADPF 54\n\nADPF 54 is a landmark case of the Supreme Court of Brazil. The minister relator Marco Aurélio Mello voted in favor of decriminalization of abortions involving anencephalic fetuses.\n\n"}
{"id": "24548897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24548897", "title": "Abu Kabir Forensic Institute", "text": "Abu Kabir Forensic Institute\n\nL. Greenberg National Institute of Forensic Medicine () also known as Abu Kabir Forensic Institute, is an Israeli forensic research laboratory located in the Abu Kabir neighborhood of Tel Aviv, Israel.\n\nEstablished in 1954 as part of the Israel Police Division of Criminal Identification (today the Division of Identification & Forensic Science), the Greenberg National Institute of Forensic Medicine is now a department of the Israeli Health Ministry and affiliated with the Sackler Faculty of Medicine at the University of Tel Aviv. Administratively it reports to Assaf HaRofeh Hospital.\n\nThe Abu Kabir Institute is the only facility in Israel authorized to conduct autopsies in cases of unnatural death. The lab at Abu Kabir conducts forensic examination in cases of rape, homicide, suicide and suspicious death. It also identifies victims of terror attacks.\n\nIn 2005, the then chief pathologist Yehuda Hiss, director of Abu Kabir from 1988 to 2004, admitted, as part of a plea bargain, to the unauthorized removal of organs, bone and tissue from 125 bodies in the 1990s. Israel said that such activity stopped in 2000 . \n\nIn 2009, Abu Kabir was mentioned in a controversial article in Swedish tabloid \"Aftonbladet\" by Donald Boström. Boström accused the institute of being part of a human organ trafficking ring in which Israel Defense Forces (IDF) soldiers abducted Palestinians to \"harvest\" their organs.\n\nBoström later admitted having no evidence. \"I have a personal opinion,\" Boström told Israel Radio. \"It concerns me to the extent that I want it to be investigated. But whether it's true or not - I have no idea, I have no clue.\" In an interview with an Israeli newspaper, Boström said his allegations were based on hearsay: \"What I experienced during this day is many people from Israel who called me haven't read the article. So they think I'm accusing the IDF of stealing organs. That's not what I'm doing. I just recorded the Palestinian families saying that.\"\n\nThe Israeli Ministry of Health later acknowledged that \"skin, corneas, heart valves and bones\" had been removed during autopsies of Israelis, including IDF soldiers, Palestinians and foreign workers in the 1990s. The ministry says that for the past decade, procedures carried out at Abu Kabir have conformed with ethics and Jewish law, and all organ removal is done with permission.\n\nNancy Scheper-Hughes, a professor of anthropology at the University of California-Berkeley who founded Organs Watch, an organization that monitors traffic in human organs, said she decided to publicize an interview with Hiss in the wake of the \"Aftonbladet\" affair. She described the involvement of the IDF as a \"widely-known secret in Israel.\" However, Scheper-Hughes made it clear she does not believe Israel murdered Palestinians for organs.\n\nThe Attorney General of Israel dropped criminal charges against Hiss. He was fired in 2012 and replaced by Dr. Chen Kugel.\n"}
{"id": "10395168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10395168", "title": "American Association of Physicists in Medicine", "text": "American Association of Physicists in Medicine\n\nThe American Association of Physicists in Medicine (AAPM) is a scientific, educational, and professional organization of Medical Physicists.\n\nIts headquarters are located at 1631 Prince Street, Alexandria, Virginia.\n\nPublications include two scientific journals \"Medical Physics\" and \"The Journal of Applied Clinical Medical Physics\" (JACMP), as well as technical reports, and symposium proceedings.\n\nThe purposes of the American Association of Physicists in Medicine are to promote the application of physics to medicine and biology and to encourage interest and training in Medical Physics and related fields. AAPM has established \"Medical Physics\" as its primary scientific and informational journal.\n\nAAPM is a Member of the American Institute of Physics and has over 8000 full members.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51039857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51039857", "title": "Anisomastia", "text": "Anisomastia\n\nAnisomastia is a medical condition in which there is a severe asymmetry or unequalness in the size of the breasts, generally related to a difference in volume. In other words, when one of the breasts is much larger than the other. In contrast to anisomastia, a slightly asymmetry of the breasts is common. Anisomastia may be corrected by surgical breast augmentation or reduction.\n\n"}
{"id": "15638499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15638499", "title": "Bachelor of Veterinary Science", "text": "Bachelor of Veterinary Science\n\nThe Bachelor of Veterinary Science (BVSc or BVSC; Latin Baccalaureus Veterinariae Scientiae),\"Bachelor of Veterinary Medicine\" (BVetMed), or \"Bachelor of Veterinary Medicine and Surgery\" (\"BVM&S\" or \"BVMS\") is a degree for studies in veterinary medicine in the United Kingdom and some other countries. These degrees qualify one to practice as a veterinarian in the US if the degree is conferred from an American Veterinary Medical Association (AVMA) accredited school and the candidate passes the North American Veterinary Licensing Examination (NAVLE), just as any other US and Canada graduate. They are the UK's equivalent to DVM/VMD degrees; the main equalizer being licensure in the US. \nOn 5 March 2015, the Royal College of Veterinary Surgeons (RCVS) Council made the decision to allow UK veterinarians to use the courtesy title \"doctor\", to align with international practices. The RCVS president said of the change:\n“Whether one regards the decision as correcting a historical anomaly or simply providing greater clarity at home and abroad, there is no doubt that the issue has generated huge interest\".\n\nIt is generally a 5-year course, or sometimes 4 if a previous appropriate degree is held. (Cambridge Veterinary School's course lasts 6 years and awards a BA after 3 years, followed by the VetMB after 6 years). Some universities will award the students a BSc after the first 3 years, and the BVSc after the final 2 years.\n\nThe degree is generally required for becoming a veterinarian in the countries where it is awarded.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, there are currently eight institutions where Veterinary medicine can be studied:\n\n\nThe University of Nottingham started to run the course in 2006 and the graduates of 2011 are the first to have received the MRCVS acknowledgement required for employment as a vet from that institution. It has not yet been confirmed whether graduates from the University of Surrey will have met the RCVS requirements for practising as a veterinary surgeon.\n\nAlthough institution choice in this specialised bachelor's degree makes no difference in becoming a practicing Vet, most of the universities have unique titles:\n"}
{"id": "25245744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25245744", "title": "Dentists Act 1984", "text": "Dentists Act 1984\n\nThe Dentists Act 1984 (c. 24) is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom regulating dentistry. In particular the function of the General Dental Council, dental bodies corporate etc.\n"}
{"id": "25625062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25625062", "title": "Derived no-effect level", "text": "Derived no-effect level\n\nThe derived no-effect level (DNEL) is the level of exposure to a substance above which humans should not be exposed.\nAccording to the EU REACH legislation, manufacturers and importers of chemical substances are required to calculate DNELs as part of their chemical safety assessment (CSA) for any chemicals used in quantities of 10 tonnes or more per year. \nThe DNEL is to be published in the manufacturer’s chemical safety report (CSR) and, for hazard communication, in an extended safety data sheet.\n\n"}
{"id": "44785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44785", "title": "Dream", "text": "Dream\n\nA dream is a succession of images, ideas, emotions, and sensations that usually occur involuntarily in the mind during certain stages of sleep. The content and purpose of dreams are not fully understood, although they have been a topic of scientific, philosophical and religious interest throughout recorded history. Dream interpretation is the attempt at drawing meaning from dreams and searching for an underlying message. The scientific study of dreams is called oneirology.\n\nDreams mainly occur in the rapid-eye movement (REM) stage of sleep—when brain activity is high and resembles that of being awake. REM sleep is revealed by continuous movements of the eyes during sleep. At times, dreams may occur during other stages of sleep. However, these dreams tend to be much less vivid or memorable. The length of a dream can vary; they may last for a few seconds, or approximately 20–30 minutes. People are more likely to remember the dream if they are awakened during the REM phase. The average person has three to five dreams per night, and some may have up to seven; however, most dreams are immediately or quickly forgotten. Dreams tend to last longer as the night progresses. During a full eight-hour night sleep, most dreams occur in the typical two hours of REM. Dreams related to waking-life experiences are associated with REM theta activity, which suggests that emotional memory processing takes place in REM sleep.\n\nOpinions about the meaning of dreams have varied and shifted through time and culture. Many endorse the Freudian theory of dreams – that dreams reveal insight into hidden desires and emotions. Other prominent theories include those suggesting that dreams assist in memory formation, problem solving, or simply are a product of random brain activation. \n\nSigmund Freud, who developed the psychological discipline of psychoanalysis, wrote extensively about dream theories and their interpretations in the early 1900s. He explained dreams as manifestations of one's deepest desires and anxieties, often relating to repressed childhood memories or obsessions. Furthermore, he believed that virtually every dream topic, regardless of its content, represented the release of sexual tension. In \"The Interpretation of Dreams\" (1899), Freud developed a psychological technique to interpret dreams and devised a series of guidelines to understand the symbols and motifs that appear in our dreams. In modern times, dreams have been seen as a connection to the unconscious mind. They range from normal and ordinary to overly surreal and bizarre. Dreams can have varying natures, such as being frightening, exciting, magical, melancholic, adventurous, or sexual. The events in dreams are generally outside the control of the dreamer, with the exception of lucid dreaming, where the dreamer is self-aware. Dreams can at times make a creative thought occur to the person or give a sense of inspiration.\n\nThe Dreaming is a common term within the animist creation narrative of indigenous Australians for a personal, or group, creation and for what may be understood as the \"timeless time\" of formative creation and perpetual creating.\n\nThe ancient Sumerians in Mesopotamia have left evidence of dream interpretation dating back to at least 3100 BC. Throughout Mesopotamian history, dreams were always held to be extremely important for divination and Mesopotamian kings paid close attention to them. Gudea, the king of the Sumerian city-state of Lagash (reigned 2144–2124 BC), rebuilt the temple of Ningirsu as the result of a dream in which he was told to do so. The standard Akkadian \"Epic of Gilgamesh\" contains numerous accounts of the prophetic power of dreams. First, Gilgamesh himself has two dreams foretelling the arrival of Enkidu. Later, Enkidu dreams about the heroes' encounter with the giant Humbaba. Dreams were also sometimes seen as a means of seeing into other worlds and it was thought that the soul, or some part of it, moved out of the body of the sleeping person and actually visited the places and persons the dreamer saw in his or her sleep. In Tablet VII of the epic, Enkidu recounts to Gilgamesh a dream in which he saw the gods Anu, Enlil, and Shamash condemn him to death. He also has a dream in which he visits the Underworld.\n\nThe Assyrian king Ashurnasirpal II (reigned 883–859 BC) built a temple to Mamu, possibly the god of dreams, at Imgur-Enlil, near Kalhu. The later Assyrian king Ashurbanipal (reigned 668– 627 BC) had a dream during a desperate military situation in which his divine patron, the goddess Ishtar, appeared to him and promised that she would lead him to victory. The Babylonians and Assyrians divided dreams into \"good,\" which were sent by the gods, and \"bad,\" sent by demons. A surviving collection of dream omens entitled \"Iškar Zaqīqu\" records various dream scenarios as well as prognostications of what will happen to the person who experiences each dream, apparently based on previous cases. Some list different possible outcomes, based on occasions in which people experienced similar dreams with different results. Dream scenarios mentioned include a variety of daily work events, journeys to different locations, family matters, sex acts, and encounters with human individuals, animals, and deities.\n\nIn ancient Egypt, as far back as 2000 BC, the Egyptians wrote down their dreams on papyrus. People with vivid and significant dreams were thought blessed and were considered special. Ancient Egyptians believed that dreams were like oracles, bringing messages from the gods. They thought that the best way to receive divine revelation was through dreaming and thus they would induce (or \"incubate\") dreams. Egyptians would go to sanctuaries and sleep on special \"dream beds\" in hope of receiving advice, comfort, or healing from the gods.\n\nIn Chinese history, people wrote of two vital aspects of the soul of which one is freed from the body during slumber to journey in a dream realm, while the other remained in the body, although this belief and dream interpretation had been questioned since early times, such as by the philosopher Wang Chong (27–97 AD). The Indian text \"Upanishads\", written between 900 and 500 BC, emphasize two meanings of dreams. The first says that dreams are merely expressions of inner desires. The second is the belief of the soul leaving the body and being guided until awakened.\n\nThe Greeks shared their beliefs with the Egyptians on how to interpret good and bad dreams, and the idea of incubating dreams. Morpheus, the Greek god of dreams, also sent warnings and prophecies to those who slept at shrines and temples. The earliest Greek beliefs about dreams were that their gods physically visited the dreamers, where they entered through a keyhole, exiting the same way after the divine message was given.\n\nAntiphon wrote the first known Greek book on dreams in the 5th century BC. In that century, other cultures influenced Greeks to develop the belief that souls left the sleeping body. Hippocrates (469–399 BC) had a simple dream theory: during the day, the soul receives images; during the night, it produces images. Greek philosopher Aristotle (384–322 BC) believed dreams caused physiological activity. He thought dreams could analyze illness and predict diseases. Marcus Tullius Cicero, for his part, believed that all dreams are produced by thoughts and conversations a dreamer had during the preceding days. Cicero's \"Somnium Scipionis\" described a lengthy dream vision, which in turn was commented on by Macrobius in his \"Commentarii in Somnium Scipionis\".\n\nHerodotus in his \"The Histories\", writes \"The visions that occur to us in dreams are, more often than not, the things we have been concerned about during the day.\"\nIn Welsh history, The Dream of Rhonabwy (Welsh: Breuddwyd Rhonabwy) is a Middle Welsh prose tale. Set during the reign of Madog ap Maredudd, prince of Powys (died 1160), it is dated to the late 12th or 13th century. It survives in only one manuscript, the Red Book of Hergest, and has been associated with the Mabinogion since its publication by Lady Charlotte Guest in the 19th century. The bulk of the narrative describes a dream vision experienced by its central character, Rhonabwy, a retainer of Madog, in which he visits the time of King Arthur.\n\nAlso in Welsh history, the tale 'The Dream of Macsen Wledig' is a romanticised story about the Roman emperor Magnus Maximus, called Macsen Wledig in Welsh. Born in Hispania, he became a legionary commander in Britain, assembled a Celtic army and assumed the title of Emperor of the Western Roman Empire in 383. He was defeated in battle in 385 and beheaded at the direction of the Eastern Roman emperor.\n\nIn Judaism, dreams are considered part of the experience of the world that can be interpreted and from which lessons can be garnered. It is discussed in the Talmud, Tractate Berachot 55–60.\n\nThe ancient Hebrews connected their dreams heavily with their religion, though the Hebrews were monotheistic and believed that dreams were the voice of one God alone. Hebrews also differentiated between good dreams (from God) and bad dreams (from evil spirits). The Hebrews, like many other ancient cultures, incubated dreams in order to receive divine revelation. For example, the Hebrew prophet Samuel would \"lie down and sleep in the temple at Shiloh before the Ark and receive the word of the Lord.\" Most of the dreams in the Bible are in the Book of Genesis.\n\nChristians mostly shared the beliefs of the Hebrews and thought that dreams were of a supernatural character because the Old Testament includes frequent stories of dreams with divine inspiration. The most famous of these dream stories was Jacob's dream of a ladder that stretches from Earth to Heaven. Many Christians preach that God can speak to people through their dreams.\n\nIain R. Edgar has researched the role of dreams in Islam. He has argued that dreams play an important role in the history of Islam and the lives of Muslims, since dream interpretation is the only way that Muslims can receive revelations from God since the death of the last prophet, Muhammad.\n\nIn the Mandukya Upanishad, part of the Veda scriptures of Indian Hinduism, a dream is one of three states that the soul experiences during its lifetime, the other two states being the waking state and the sleep state.\n\nIn Buddhism, ideas about dreams are similar to the classical and folk traditions in South Asia. The same dream is sometimes experienced by multiple people, as in the case of the Buddha-to-be leaving his home. It is described in the \"Mahāvastu\" that several of the Buddha's relatives had premonition-like dreams preceding this. Some dreams are also seen to transcend time: the Buddha-to-be has certain dreams that are the same as those of previous Buddhas, the \"Lalitavistara\" states. In Buddhist literature, dreams often function as a \"signpost\" motif to mark certain stages in the life of the main character.\n\nBuddhist views about dreams are expressed in the Pāli Commentaries and the Milinda Pañhā.\n\nSome philosophers have concluded that what we think of as the \"real world\" could be or is an illusion (an idea known as the skeptical hypothesis about ontology).\n\nThe first recorded mention of the idea was by Zhuangzi, and it is also discussed in Hinduism, which makes extensive use of the argument in its writings. It was formally introduced to Western philosophy by Descartes in the 17th century in his \"Meditations on First Philosophy\". Stimulus, usually an auditory one, becomes a part of a dream, eventually then awakening the dreamer.\n\nSome Indigenous American tribes and Mexican civilizations believe that dreams are a way of visiting and having contact with their ancestors. Some Native American tribes used vision quests as a rite of passage, fasting and praying until an anticipated guiding dream was received, to be shared with the rest of the tribe upon their return.\n\nThe Middle Ages brought a harsh interpretation of dreams. They were seen as evil, and the images as temptations from the devil. Many believed that during sleep, the devil could fill the human mind with corrupting and harmful thoughts. Martin Luther, founder of Protestantism, believed dreams were the work of the Devil. However, Catholics such as St. Augustine and St. Jerome claimed that the direction of their lives was heavily influenced by their dreams.\n\nThe depiction of dreams in Renaissance and Baroque art is often related to Biblical narrative. Examples are \"Joachim's Dream\" (1304–1306) from the Scrovegni Chapel fresco cycle by Giotto, and \"Jacob's Dream\" (1639) by Jusepe de Ribera. Dreams and dark imaginings are the theme of several notable works of the Romantic era, such as Goya's etching \"The Sleep of Reason Produces Monsters\" (c. 1799) and Henry Fuseli's painting \"The Nightmare\" (1781). Salvador Dalí's \"Dream Caused by the Flight of a Bee around a Pomegranate a Second Before Awakening\" (1944) also investigates this theme through absurd juxtapositions of a nude lady, tigers leaping out of a pomegranate, and a spider-like elephant walking in the background. Henri Rousseau's last painting was \"The Dream\". \"Le Rêve\" (\"The Dream\") is a 1932 painting by Pablo Picasso.\n\nDream frames were frequently used in medieval allegory to justify the narrative; \"The Book of the Duchess\" and \"The Vision Concerning Piers Plowman\" are two such dream visions. Even before them, in antiquity, the same device had been used by Cicero and Lucian of Samosata.\n\nThey have also featured in fantasy and speculative fiction since the 19th century. One of the best-known dream worlds is Wonderland from Lewis Carroll's \"Alice's Adventures in Wonderland\", as well as Looking-Glass Land from its sequel, \"Through the Looking-Glass\". Unlike many dream worlds, Carroll's logic is like that of actual dreams, with transitions and flexible causality.\n\nOther fictional dream worlds include the Dreamlands of H. P. Lovecraft's \"Dream Cycle\" and \"The Neverending Story\"s world of Fantasia, which includes places like the Desert of Lost Dreams, the Sea of Possibilities and the Swamps of Sadness. Dreamworlds, shared hallucinations and other alternate realities feature in a number of works by Philip K. Dick, such as \"The Three Stigmata of Palmer Eldritch\" and \"Ubik\". Similar themes were explored by Jorge Luis Borges, for instance in \"The Circular Ruins\".\n\nModern popular culture often conceives of dreams, like Freud, as expressions of the dreamer's deepest fears and desires. The film version of \"The Wizard of Oz\" (1939) depicts a full-color dream that causes Dorothy to perceive her black-and-white reality and those with whom she shares it in a new way. In films such as \"Spellbound\" (1945), \"The Manchurian Candidate\" (1962), \"Field of Dreams\" (1989), and \"Inception\" (2010), the protagonists must extract vital clues from surreal dreams.\n\nMost dreams in popular culture are, however, not symbolic, but straightforward and realistic depictions of their dreamer's fears and desires. Dream scenes may be indistinguishable from those set in the dreamer's real world, a narrative device that undermines the dreamer's and the audience's sense of security and allows horror film protagonists, such as those of \"Carrie\" (1976), \"Friday the 13th\" (1980) or \"An American Werewolf in London\" (1981) to be suddenly attacked by dark forces while resting in seemingly safe places.\n\nIn speculative fiction, the line between dreams and reality may be blurred even more in the service of the story. Dreams may be psychically invaded or manipulated (\"Dreamscape\", 1984; the \"Nightmare on Elm Street\" films, 1984–2010; \"Inception\", 2010) or even come literally true (as in \"The Lathe of Heaven\", 1971). In Ursula K. Le Guin's book, \"The Lathe of Heaven\" (1971), the protagonist finds that his \"effective\" dreams can retroactively change reality. Peter Weir's 1977 Australian film \"The Last Wave\" makes a simple and straightforward postulate about the premonitory nature of dreams (from one of his Aboriginal characters) that \"... dreams are the shadow of something real\". In Kyell Gold's novel \"Green Fairy\" from the Dangerous Spirits series, the protagonist, Sol, experiences the memories of a dancer who died 100 years before through Absinthe induced dreams and after each dream something from it materializes into his reality. Such stories play to audiences' experiences with their own dreams, which feel as real to them.\n\nIn the late 19th century, psychotherapist Sigmund Freud developed a theory that the content of dreams is driven by unconscious wish fulfillment. Freud called dreams the \"royal road to the unconscious.\" He theorized that the content of dreams reflects the dreamer's unconscious mind and specifically that dream content is shaped by unconscious wish fulfillment. He argued that important unconscious desires often relate to early childhood memories and experiences. Freud's theory describes dreams as having both manifest and latent content. Latent content relates to deep unconscious wishes or fantasies while manifest content is superficial and meaningless. Manifest content often masks or obscures latent content.\n\nIn his early work, Freud argued that the vast majority of latent dream content is sexual in nature, but he later moved away from this categorical position. In \"Beyond the Pleasure Principle\" he considered how trauma or aggression could influence dream content. He also discussed supernatural origins in \"Dreams and Occultism\", a lecture published in \"New Introductory Lectures on Psychoanalysis\".\n\nLate in life Freud acknowledged that \"It is impossible to classify as wish fulfillments\" the repetitive nightmares associated with post-traumatic stress disorder. Modern experimental studies weigh against many of Freud's theories regarding dreams. Freud's \"dream-work\" interpretation strategies have not been found to have empirical validity. His theory that dreams were the \"guardians\" of sleep, repressing and disguising bodily urges to ensure sleep continues, seems unlikely given studies of individuals who can sleep without dreaming. His assertions that repressed memory in infants re-surface decades later in adult dreams conflicts with modern research on memory. Freud's theory has difficulty explaining why young children have static and bland dreams, or why the emotions in most dreams are negative. On the plus side, modern researchers agree with Freud that dreams do have coherence, and that dream content connects to other psychological variables and often connect to recent waking thoughts (though not as often as Freud supposed). Despite the lack of scientific evidence, dream interpretation services based on Freudian or other systems remain popular.\n\nCarl Jung rejected many of Freud's theories. Jung expanded on Freud's idea that dream content relates to the dreamer's unconscious desires. He described dreams as messages to the dreamer and argued that dreamers should pay attention for their own good. He came to believe that dreams present the dreamer with revelations that can uncover and help to resolve emotional or religious problems and fears.\n\nJung wrote that recurring dreams show up repeatedly to demand attention, suggesting that the dreamer is neglecting an issue related to the dream. He called this \"compensation.\" The dream balances the conscious belief and attitudes with an alternative. Jung did not believe that the conscious attitude was wrong and that the dream provided the true belief. He argued that good work with dreams takes both into account and comes up with a balanced viewpoint. He believed that many of the symbols or images from these dreams return with each dream. Jung believed that memories formed throughout the day also play a role in dreaming. These memories leave impressions for the unconscious to deal with when the ego is at rest. The unconscious mind re-enacts these glimpses of the past in the form of a dream. Jung called this a \"day residue\". Jung also argued that dreaming is not a purely individual concern, that all dreams are part of \"one great web of psychological factors.\"\n\nFritz Perls presented his theory of dreams as part of the holistic nature of Gestalt therapy. Dreams are seen as projections of parts of the self that have been ignored, rejected, or suppressed. Jung argued that one could consider every person in the dream to represent an aspect of the dreamer, which he called the subjective approach to dreams. Perls expanded this point of view to say that even inanimate objects in the dream may represent aspects of the dreamer. The dreamer may, therefore, be asked to imagine being an object in the dream and to describe it, in order to bring into awareness the characteristics of the object that correspond with the dreamer's personality.\n\nAccumulated observation has shown that dreams are strongly associated with REM rapid eye movement sleep, during which an electroencephalogram (EEG) shows brain activity that, among sleep states, is most like wakefulness. Participant-remembered dreams during NREM sleep are normally more mundane in comparison. During a typical lifespan, a person spends a total of about six years dreaming (which is about two hours each night). Most dreams only last 5 to 20 minutes. It is unknown where in the brain dreams originate, if there is a single origin for dreams or if multiple portions of the brain are involved, or what the purpose of dreaming is for the body or mind.\n\nDuring REM sleep, the release of the neurotransmitters norepinephrine, serotonin and histamine is completely suppressed.\n\nDuring most dreams, the person dreaming is not aware that they are dreaming, no matter how absurd or eccentric the dream is. The reason for this may be that the prefrontal cortex, the region of the brain responsible for logic and planning, exhibits decreased activity during dreams. This allows the dreamer to more actively interact with the dream without thinking about what might happen, since things that would normally stand out in reality blend in with the dream scenery.\n\nWhen REM sleep episodes were timed for their duration and subjects were awakened to make reports before major editing or forgetting of their dreams could take place, subjects accurately reported the length of time they had been dreaming in an REM sleep state. Some researchers have speculated that \"time dilation\" effects only seem to be taking place upon reflection and do not truly occur within dreams. This close correlation of REM sleep and dream experience was the basis of the first series of reports describing the nature of dreaming: that it is a regular nightly rather than occasional phenomenon, and is correlated with high-frequency activity within each sleep period occurring at predictable intervals of approximately every 60–90 minutes in all humans throughout the lifespan.\n\nREM sleep episodes and the dreams that accompany them lengthen progressively through the night, with the first episode being shortest, of approximately 10–12 minutes duration, and the second and third episodes increasing to 15–20 minutes. Dreams at the end of the night may last as long as 15 minutes, although these may be experienced as several distinct episodes due to momentary arousals interrupting sleep as the night ends. Dream reports can be reported from normal subjects 50% of the time when they are awakened prior to the end of the first REM period. This rate of retrieval is increased to about 99% when awakenings are made from the last REM period of the night. The increase in the ability to recall dreams appears related to intensification across the night in the vividness of dream imagery, colors, and emotions. \n\nREM sleep and the ability to dream seem to be embedded in the biology of many animals in addition to humans. Scientific research suggests that all mammals experience REM. The range of REM can be seen across species: dolphins experience minimal REM, while humans are in the middle of the scale and the armadillo and the opossum (a marsupial) are among the most prolific dreamers, judging from their REM patterns.\n\nStudies have observed signs of dreaming in all mammals studied, including monkeys, dogs, cats, rats, elephants, and shrews. There have also been signs of dreaming in birds and reptiles. Sleeping and dreaming are intertwined. Scientific research results regarding the function of dreaming in animals remain disputable; however, the function of sleeping in living organisms is increasingly clear. For example, sleep deprivation experiments conducted on rats and other animals have resulted in the deterioration of physiological functioning and actual tissue damage.\n\nSome scientists argue that humans dream for the same reason other amniotes do. From a Darwinian perspective dreams would have to fulfill some kind of biological requirement, provide some benefit for natural selection to take place, or at least have no negative impact on fitness. In 2000 Antti Revonsuo, a professor at the University of Turku in Finland, claimed that centuries ago dreams would prepare humans for recognizing and avoiding danger by presenting a simulation of threatening events. The theory has therefore been called the threat-simulation theory. According to Tsoukalas (2012) dreaming is related to the reactive patterns elicited by encounters with predators, a fact that is still evident in the control mechanisms of REM sleep (see below).\n\nIn 1976 J. Allan Hobson and Robert McCarley proposed a new theory that changed dream research, challenging the previously held Freudian view of dreams as unconscious wishes to be interpreted. They assume that the same structures that induce REM sleep also generate sensory information. Hobson's 1976 research suggested that the signals interpreted as dreams originate in the brainstem during REM sleep. According to Hobson and other researchers, circuits in the brainstem are activated during REM sleep. Once these circuits are activated, areas of the limbic system involved in emotions, sensations, and memories, including the amygdala and hippocampus, become active. The brain synthesizes and interprets these activities; for example, changes in the physical environment such as temperature and humidity, or physical stimuli such as ejaculation, and attempts to create meaning from these signals, result in dreaming.\n\nHowever, research by Mark Solms suggests that dreams are generated in the forebrain, and that REM sleep and dreaming are not directly related. While working in the neurosurgery department at hospitals in Johannesburg and London, Solms had access to patients with various brain injuries. He began to question patients about their dreams and confirmed that patients with damage to the parietal lobe stopped dreaming; this finding was in line with Hobson's 1977 theory. However, Solms did not encounter cases of loss of dreaming with patients having brainstem damage. This observation forced him to question Hobson's prevailing theory, which marked the brainstem as the source of the signals interpreted as dreams.\n\nCombining Hobson's activation synthesis hypothesis with Solms' findings, the continual-activation theory of dreaming presented by Jie Zhang proposes that dreaming is a result of brain activation and synthesis; at the same time, dreaming and REM sleep are controlled by different brain mechanisms. Zhang hypothesizes that the function of sleep is to process, encode, and transfer the data from the temporary memory store to the long-term memory store. During NREM sleep the conscious-related memory (declarative memory) is processed, and during REM sleep the unconscious related memory (procedural memory) is processed.\n\nZhang assumes that during REM sleep the unconscious part of a brain is busy processing the procedural memory; meanwhile, the level of activation in the conscious part of the brain descends to a very low level as the inputs from the sensory systems are basically disconnected. This triggers the \"continual-activation\" mechanism to generate a data stream from the memory stores to flow through the conscious part of the brain. Zhang suggests that this pulse-like brain activation is the inducer of each dream. He proposes that, with the involvement of the brain associative thinking system, dreaming is, thereafter, self-maintained with the dreamer's own thinking until the next pulse of memory insertion. This explains why dreams have both characteristics of continuity (within a dream) and sudden changes (between two dreams). A detailed explanation of how a dream is synthesized is given in a later paper.\n\nAccording to Tsoukalas (2012) REM sleep is an evolutionary transformation of a well-known defensive mechanism, the tonic immobility reflex. This reflex, also known as animal hypnosis or death feigning, functions as the last line of defense against an attacking predator and consists of the total immobilization of the animal: the animal appears dead (cf. \"playing possum\"). Tsoukalas claims that the neurophysiology and phenomenology of this reaction shows striking similarities to REM sleep, a fact that suggests a deep evolutionary kinship. For example, both reactions exhibit brainstem control, paralysis, hippocampal theta and thermoregulatory changes. Tsoukalas claims that this theory integrates many earlier findings into a unified framework.\n\nEugen Tarnow suggests that dreams are ever-present excitations of long-term memory, even during waking life. The strangeness of dreams is due to the format of long-term memory, reminiscent of Penfield & Rasmussen's findings that electrical excitations of the cortex give rise to experiences similar to dreams. During waking life an executive function interprets long-term memory consistent with reality checking. Tarnow's theory is a reworking of Freud's theory of dreams in which Freud's unconscious is replaced with the long-term memory system and Freud's \"Dream Work\" describes the structure of long-term memory.\n\nA 2001 study showed evidence that illogical locations, characters, and dream flow may help the brain strengthen the linking and consolidation of semantic memories. These conditions may occur because, during REM sleep, the flow of information between the hippocampus and neocortex is reduced.\n\nIncreasing levels of the stress hormone cortisol late in sleep (often during REM sleep) causes this decreased communication. One stage of memory consolidation is the linking of distant but related memories. Payne and Nadal hypothesize these memories are then consolidated into a smooth narrative, similar to a process that happens when memories are created under stress.\nRobert (1886), a physician from Hamburg, was the first who suggested that dreams are a need and that they have the function to erase (a) sensory impressions that were not fully worked up, and (b) ideas that were not fully developed during the day. By the dream work, incomplete material is either removed (suppressed) or deepened and included into memory. Robert's ideas were cited repeatedly by Freud in his \"Die Traumdeutung\". Hughlings Jackson (1911) viewed that sleep serves to sweep away unnecessary memories and connections from the day.\n\nThis was revised in 1983 by Crick and Mitchison's \"reverse learning\" theory, which states that dreams are like the cleaning-up operations of computers when they are off-line, removing (suppressing) parasitic nodes and other \"junk\" from the mind during sleep. However, the opposite view that dreaming has an information handling, memory-consolidating function (Hennevin and Leconte, 1971) is also common.\n\nCoutts describes dreams as playing a central role in a two-phase sleep process that improves the mind's ability to meet human needs during wakefulness. During the accommodation phase, mental schemas self-modify by incorporating dream themes. During the emotional selection phase, dreams test prior schema accommodations. Those that appear adaptive are retained, while those that appear maladaptive are culled. The cycle maps to the sleep cycle, repeating several times during a typical night's sleep. Alfred Adler suggested that dreams are often emotional preparations for solving problems, intoxicating an individual away from common sense toward private logic. The residual dream feelings may either reinforce or inhibit contemplated action.\n\nNumerous theories state that dreaming is a random by-product of REM sleep physiology and that it does not serve any natural purpose. Flanagan claims that \"dreams are evolutionary epiphenomena\" and they have no adaptive function. \"Dreaming came along as a free ride on a system designed to think and to sleep.\" Hobson, for different reasons, also considers dreams epiphenomena. He believes that the substance of dreams have no significant influence on waking actions, and most people go about their daily lives perfectly well without remembering their dreams.\n\nIn 2005, however, Hobson published a book, \"Thirteen Dreams that Freud Never Had\", in which he analyzed his own dreams after having a stroke in 2001. The book is filled with the most forthright analyses of Hobson’s dreams, with attention to problems in bodily function and social relations. The book illustrates how dreams show our most compelling concerns and how they can be used to make sense of the most difficult life situations. \n\nHobson proposed the activation-synthesis theory, which states that \"there is a randomness of dream imagery and the randomness synthesizes dream-generated images to fit the patterns of internally generated stimulations\". This theory is based on the physiology of REM sleep, and Hobson believes dreams are the outcome of the forebrain reacting to random activity beginning at the brainstem. The activation-synthesis theory hypothesizes that the peculiar nature of dreams is attributed to certain parts of the brain trying to piece together a story out of what is essentially bizarre information.\n\nHowever, evolutionary psychologists believe dreams serve some adaptive function for survival. Deirdre Barrett describes dreaming as simply \"thinking in different biochemical state\" and believes people continue to work on all the same problems—personal and objective—in that state. Her research finds that anything—math, musical composition, business dilemmas—may get solved during dreaming. \n\nFinnish psychologist Antti Revonsuo posits that dreams have evolved for \"threat simulation\" exclusively. According to the Threat Simulation Theory he proposes, during much of human evolution physical and interpersonal threats were serious, giving reproductive advantage to those who survived them. Therefore, dreaming evolved to replicate these threats and continually practice dealing with them. In support of this theory, Revonsuo shows that contemporary dreams comprise much more threatening events than people meet in daily non-dream life, and the dreamer usually engages appropriately with them. It is suggested by this theory that dreams serve the purpose of allowing for the rehearsal of threatening scenarios in order to better prepare an individual for real-life threats.\n\nAccording to Tsoukalas (2012) the biology of dreaming is related to the reactive patterns elicited by predatorial encounters (especially the tonic immobility reflex), a fact that lends support to evolutionary theories claiming that dreams specialize in threat avoidance or emotional processing.\n\nThere are many other hypotheses about the function of dreams, including:\n\nFrom the 1940s to 1985, Calvin S. Hall collected more than 50,000 dream reports at Western Reserve University. In 1966 Hall and Van De Castle published \"The Content Analysis of Dreams\", in which they outlined a coding system to study 1,000 dream reports from college students. Results indicated that participants from varying parts of the world demonstrated similarity in their dream content. Hall's complete dream reports were made publicly available in the mid-1990s by Hall's protégé William Domhoff.\n\nThe visual nature of dreams is generally highly phantasmagoric; that is, different locations and objects continuously blend into each other. The visuals (including locations, characters/people, objects/artifacts) are generally reflective of a person's memories and experiences, but conversation can take on highly exaggerated and bizarre forms. Some dreams may even tell elaborate stories wherein the dreamer enters entirely new, complex worlds and awakes with ideas, thoughts and feelings never experienced prior to the dream.\n\nPeople who are blind from birth do not have visual dreams. Their dream contents are related to other senses like auditory, touch, smell and taste, whichever are present since birth.\n\nIn the Hall study, the most common emotion experienced in dreams was anxiety. Other emotions included abandonment, anger, fear, joy, and happiness. Negative emotions were much more common than positive ones.\n\nThe Hall data analysis shows that sexual dreams occur no more than 10% of the time and are more prevalent in young to mid-teens. Another study showed that 8% of both men and women's dreams have sexual content. In some cases, sexual dreams may result in orgasms or nocturnal emissions. These are colloquially known as \"wet dreams\".\n\nA small minority of people say that they dream only in black and white. A 2008 study by a researcher at the University of Dundee found that people who were only exposed to black and white television and film in childhood reported dreaming in black and white about 25% of the time.\n\nThere is evidence that certain medical conditions (normally only neurological conditions) can impact dreams. For instance, some people with synesthesia have never reported entirely black-and-white dreaming, and often have a difficult time imagining the idea of dreaming in only black and white.\n\nDream interpretation can be a result of subjective ideas and experiences. One study found that most people believe that \"their dreams reveal meaningful hidden truths\". In one study conducted in the United States, South Korea and India, they found that 74% of Indians, 65% of South Koreans and 56% of Americans believed their dream content provided them with meaningful insight into their unconscious beliefs and desires. This Freudian view of dreaming was endorsed significantly more than theories of dreaming that attribute dream content to memory consolidation, problem-solving, or random brain activity.\n\nIn the paper, Morewedge and Norton (2009) also found that people attribute more importance to dream content than to similar thought content that occurs while they are awake. In one study, Americans were more likely to report that they would miss their flight if they dreamt of their plane crashing than if they thought of their plane crashing the night before flying (while awake), and that they would be as likely to miss their flight if they dreamt of their plane crashing the night before their flight as if there was an actual plane crash on the route they intended to take. Not all dream content was considered equally important. Participants in their studies were more likely to perceive dreams to be meaningful when the content of dreams was in accordance with their beliefs and desires while awake. People were more likely to view a positive dream about a friend to be meaningful than a positive dream about someone they disliked, for example, and were more likely to view a negative dream about a person they disliked as meaningful than a negative dream about a person they liked.\n\nTherapy for recurring nightmares (often associated with posttraumatic stress disorder) can include imagining alternative scenarios that could begin at each step of the dream.\n\nDuring the night, many external stimuli may bombard the senses, but the brain often interprets the stimulus and makes it a part of a dream to ensure continued sleep. Dream incorporation is a phenomenon whereby an actual sensation, such as environmental sounds, is incorporated into dreams, such as hearing a phone ringing in a dream while it is ringing in reality or dreaming of urination while wetting the bed. The mind can, however, awaken an individual if they are in danger or if trained to respond to certain sounds, such as a baby crying.\n\nThe term \"dream incorporation\" is also used in research examining the degree to which preceding daytime events become elements of dreams. Recent studies suggest that events in the day immediately preceding, and those about a week before, have the most influence. Gary Alan Fine and Laura Fischer Leighton argue that “dreams are external to the individual mind” because “1) dreams are not willed by the individual self; 2) dreams reflect social reality; 3) dreams are public rhetoric; and 4) dreams are collectively interpretable.”\n\nAccording to surveys, it is common for people to feel their dreams are predicting subsequent life events. Psychologists have explained these experiences in terms of memory biases, namely a selective memory for accurate predictions and distorted memory so that dreams are retrospectively fitted onto life experiences. The multi-faceted nature of dreams makes it easy to find connections between dream content and real events. The term \"veridical dream\" has been used to indicate dreams that reveal or contain truths not yet known to the dreamer, whether future events or secrets.\n\nIn one experiment, subjects were asked to write down their dreams in a diary. This prevented the selective memory effect, and the dreams no longer seemed accurate about the future. Another experiment gave subjects a fake diary of a student with apparently precognitive dreams. This diary described events from the person's life, as well as some predictive dreams and some non-predictive dreams. When subjects were asked to recall the dreams they had read, they remembered more of the successful predictions than unsuccessful ones.\n\nLucid dreaming is the conscious perception of one's state while dreaming. In this state the dreamer may often have some degree of control over their own actions within the dream or even the characters and the environment of the dream. Dream control has been reported to improve with practiced deliberate lucid dreaming, but the ability to control aspects of the dream is not necessary for a dream to qualify as \"lucid\" — a lucid dream is any dream during which the dreamer knows they are dreaming. The occurrence of lucid dreaming has been scientifically verified.\n\n\"Oneironaut\" is a term sometimes used for those who lucidly dream.\n\nIn 1975, psychologist Keith Hearne successfully recorded a communication from a dreamer experiencing a lucid dream. On April 12, 1975, after agreeing to move his eyes left and right upon becoming lucid, the subject and Hearne's co-author on the resulting article, Alan Worsley, successfully carried out this task.\n\nYears later, psychophysiologist Stephen LaBerge conducted similar work including:\nCommunication between two dreamers has also been documented. The processes involved included EEG monitoring, ocular signaling, incorporation of reality in the form of red light stimuli and a coordinating website. The website tracked when both dreamers were dreaming and sent the stimulus to one of the dreamers where it was incorporated into the dream. This dreamer, upon becoming lucid, signaled with eye movements; this was detected by the website whereupon the stimulus was sent to the second dreamer, invoking incorporation into this dream.\n\nDreams of absent-minded transgression (DAMT) are dreams wherein the dreamer absentmindedly performs an action that he or she has been trying to stop (one classic example is of a quitting smoker having dreams of lighting a cigarette). Subjects who have had DAMT have reported waking with intense feelings of guilt. One study found a positive association between having these dreams and successfully stopping the behavior.\n\nThe recollection of dreams is extremely unreliable, though it is a skill that can be trained. Dreams can usually be recalled if a person is awakened while dreaming. Women tend to have more frequent dream recall than men. Dreams that are difficult to recall may be characterized by relatively little affect, and factors such as salience, arousal, and interference play a role in dream recall. Often, a dream may be recalled upon viewing or hearing a random trigger or stimulus. The \"salience hypothesis\" proposes that dream content that is salient, that is, novel, intense, or unusual, is more easily remembered. There is considerable evidence that vivid, intense, or unusual dream content is more frequently recalled. A dream journal can be used to assist dream recall, for personal interest or psychotherapy purposes.\n\nFor some people, sensations from the previous night's dreams are sometimes spontaneously experienced in falling asleep. However they are usually too slight and fleeting to allow dream recall. At least 95% of all dreams are not remembered. Certain brain chemicals necessary for converting short-term memories into long-term ones are suppressed during REM sleep. Unless a dream is particularly vivid and if one wakes during or immediately after it, the content of the dream is not remembered. Recording or reconstructing dreams may one day assist with dream recall. Using technologies such as functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and electromyography (EMG), researchers have been able to record basic dream imagery, dream speech activity and dream motor behavior (such as walking and hand movements).\n\nIn line with the salience hypothesis, there is considerable evidence that people who have more vivid, intense or unusual dreams show better recall. There is evidence that continuity of consciousness is related to recall. Specifically, people who have vivid and unusual experiences during the day tend to have more memorable dream content and hence better dream recall. People who score high on measures of personality traits associated with creativity, imagination, and fantasy, such as openness to experience, daydreaming, fantasy proneness, absorption, and hypnotic susceptibility, tend to show more frequent dream recall. There is also evidence for continuity between the bizarre aspects of dreaming and waking experience. That is, people who report more bizarre experiences during the day, such as people high in schizotypy (psychosis proneness) have more frequent dream recall and also report more frequent nightmares.\n\nOne theory of déjà vu attributes the feeling of having previously seen or experienced something to having dreamed about a similar situation or place, and forgetting about it until one seems to be mysteriously reminded of the situation or the place while awake.\n\nA daydream is a visionary fantasy, especially one of happy, pleasant thoughts, hopes or ambitions, imagined as coming to pass, and experienced while awake. There are many different types of daydreams, and there is no consistent definition amongst psychologists. The general public also uses the term for a broad variety of experiences. Research by Harvard psychologist Deirdre Barrett has found that people who experience vivid dream-like mental images reserve the word for these, whereas many other people refer to milder imagery, realistic future planning, review of past memories or just \"spacing out\"—i.e. one's mind going relatively blank—when they talk about \"daydreaming.\"\n\nWhile daydreaming has long been derided as a lazy, non-productive pastime, it is now commonly acknowledged that daydreaming can be constructive in some contexts. There are numerous examples of people in creative or artistic careers, such as composers, novelists and filmmakers, developing new ideas through daydreaming. Similarly, research scientists, mathematicians and physicists have developed new ideas by daydreaming about their subject areas.\n\nA hallucination, in the broadest sense of the word, is a perception in the absence of a stimulus. In a stricter sense, hallucinations are perceptions in a conscious and awake state, in the absence of external stimuli, and have qualities of real perception, in that they are vivid, substantial, and located in external objective space. The latter definition distinguishes hallucinations from the related phenomena of dreaming, which does not involve wakefulness.\n\nA nightmare is an unpleasant dream that can cause a strong negative emotional response from the mind, typically fear or horror, but also despair, anxiety and great sadness. The dream may contain situations of danger, discomfort, psychological or physical terror. Sufferers usually awaken in a state of distress and may be unable to return to sleep for a prolonged period of time.\n\nA night terror, also known as a sleep terror or \"pavor nocturnus\", is a parasomnia disorder that predominantly affects children, causing feelings of terror or dread. Night terrors should not be confused with nightmares, which are bad dreams that cause the feeling of horror or fear.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "172118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=172118", "title": "Dry cleaning", "text": "Dry cleaning\n\nDry cleaning is any cleaning process for clothing and textiles using a chemical solvent other than water. It is used to clean fabrics that degrade in water, and delicate fabrics that cannot withstand the rough and tumble of a washing machine and clothes dryer. It can eliminate labor-intensive hand washing.\n\nDespite its name, dry cleaning is not a \"dry\" process; clothes are soaked in a liquid solvent. Tetrachloroethylene (perchloroethylene), which the industry calls \"perc\", is the most widely used solvent. Alternative solvents are trichloroethane and petroleum spirits. \n\nOn March 3, 1821, Thomas L. Jennings became the first African-American to be granted a United States patent. The patent was for his invention of a cleaning process called \"dry scouring\", which was the precursor to dry cleaning. The first commercial \"dry laundry\" using turpentine was founded by Jolly Belin in Paris in 1825.\n\nModern dry cleaning's use of non-water-based solvents to remove soil and stains from clothes was reported as early as 1855. The potential for petroleum-based solvents was recognized by French dye-works operator Jean Baptiste Jolly, who offered a new service that became known as \"nettoyage à sec\"—i.e., dry cleaning. Flammability concerns led William Joseph Stoddard, a dry cleaner from Atlanta, to develop Stoddard solvent (white spirit) as a slightly less flammable alternative to gasoline-based solvents. The use of highly flammable petroleum solvents caused many fires and explosions, resulting in government regulation of dry cleaners. After World War I, dry cleaners began using chlorinated solvents. These solvents were much less flammable than petroleum solvents and had improved cleaning power.\n\nBy the mid-1930s, the dry cleaning industry had adopted tetrachloroethylene (perchloroethylene), or PCE for short, as the solvent. It has excellent cleaning power and is nonflammable and compatible with most garments. Because it is stable, tetrachloroethylene is readily recycled.\n\nTraditionally, the cleaning process was carried out at centralized factories. Small, local cleaners' shops received garments from customers, sent them to the factory, and then had them returned to the shop for collection by the customer. This cycle minimized the risk of fire or dangerous fumes created by the cleaning process. At this time, dry cleaning was carried out in two different machines—one for the cleaning process, and the second to remove the solvent from the garments.\n\nMachines of this era were described as \"vented\"; their drying exhausts were expelled to the atmosphere, the same as many modern tumble-dryer exhausts. This not only contributed to environmental contamination but also much potentially reusable PCE was lost to the atmosphere. Much stricter controls on solvent emissions have ensured that all dry cleaning machines in the Western world are now fully enclosed, and no solvent fumes are vented to the atmosphere. In enclosed machines, solvent recovered during the drying process is returned condensed and distilled, so it can be reused to clean further loads or safely disposed of. The majority of modern enclosed machines also incorporate a computer-controlled drying sensor, which automatically senses when all detectable traces of PCE have been removed. This system ensures that only small amounts of PCE fumes are released at the end of the cycle.\n\nIn terms of mechanism, dry cleaning selectively solubilizes stains on the article. The solvents are non-polar and tend to selectively extract compounds that cause stains. These stains would otherwise only dissolve in aqueous detergents mixtures at high temperatures, potentially damaging delicate fabrics.\n\nNon-polar solvents are also good for some fabrics, especially natural fabrics, as the solvent does not interact with any polar groups within the fabric. Water binds to these polar groups which results in the swelling and stretching of proteins within fibers during laundry. Also, the binding of water molecules interferes with weak attractions within the fiber, resulting in the loss of the fiber's original shape. After the laundry cycle, water molecules will dry off. However, the original shape of the fibers has already been distorted and this commonly results in shrinkage. Non-polar solvents prevent this interaction, protecting more delicate fabrics.\n\nThe usage of an effective solvent coupled with mechanical friction from tumbling effectively removes stains.\n\nA dry-cleaning machine is similar to a combination of a domestic washing machine and clothes dryer. Garments are placed in the washing or extraction chamber (referred to as the 'basket' or 'drum'), which constitutes the core of the machine. The washing chamber contains a horizontal, perforated drum that rotates within an outer shell. The shell holds the solvent while the rotating drum holds the garment load. The basket capacity is between about 10 and 40 kg (22 to 88 lb).\n\nDuring the wash cycle, the chamber is filled approximately one-third full of solvent and begins to rotate, agitating the clothing. The solvent temperature is maintained at 30 degrees Celsius (86 degrees Fahrenheit), as a higher temperature may damage it. During the wash cycle, the solvent in the chamber (commonly known as the 'cage' or 'tackle box') is passed through a filtration chamber and then fed back into the 'cage'. This is known as the cycle and is continued for the wash duration. The solvent is then removed and sent to a distillation unit consisting of a boiler and condenser. The condensed solvent is fed into a separator unit where any remaining water is separated from the solvent and then fed into the 'clean solvent' tank. The ideal flow rate is roughly 8 liters of solvent per kilogram of garments per minute, depending on the size of the machine.\n\nGarments are also checked for foreign objects. Items such as plastic pens that may dissolve in the solvent bath, damaging the textiles. Some textile dyes are \"loose\" and will shed dye during solvent immersion. Fragile items, such as feather bedspreads or tasseled rugs or hangings, may be enclosed in a loose mesh bag. The density of perchloroethylene is around 1.7 g/cm at room temperature (70% heavier than water), and the sheer weight of absorbed solvent may cause the textile to fail under normal force during the extraction cycle unless the mesh bag provides mechanical support.\n\nNot all stains can be removed by dry cleaning. Some need to be treated with spotting solvents — sometimes by steam jet or by soaking in special stain-remover liquids — before garments are washed or dry cleaned. Also, garments stored in soiled condition for a long time are difficult to bring back to their original color and texture.\n\nA typical wash cycle lasts for 8–15 minutes depending on the type of garments and degree of soiling. During the first three minutes, solvent-soluble soils dissolve into the perchloroethylene and loose, insoluble soil comes off. It takes 10–12 minutes after the loose soil has come off to remove the ground-in insoluble soil from garments. Machines using hydrocarbon solvents require a wash cycle of at least 25 minutes because of the much slower rate of solvation of solvent-soluble soils. A dry cleaning surfactant \"soap\" may also be added.\n\nAt the end of the wash cycle, the machine starts a rinse cycle where the garment load is rinsed with freshly distilled solvent dispensed from the solvent tank. This pure solvent rinse prevents discoloration caused by soil particles being absorbed back onto the garment surface from the 'dirty' working solvent.\n\nAfter the rinse cycle, the machine begins the extraction process, which recovers the solvent for reuse. Modern machines recover approximately 99.99% of the solvent employed. The extraction cycle begins by draining the solvent from the washing chamber and accelerating the basket to 350–450 rpm, causing much of the solvent to spin free of the fabric. Until this time, the cleaning is done in normal temperature, as the solvent is never heated in dry cleaning process. When no more solvent can be spun out, the machine starts the drying cycle.\n\nDuring the drying cycle, the garments are tumbled in a stream of warm air (60–63 °C/140–145 °F) that circulates through the basket, evaporating traces of solvent left after the spin cycle. The air temperature is controlled to prevent heat damage to the garments. The exhausted warm air from the machine then passes through a chiller unit where solvent vapors are condensed and returned to the distilled solvent tank. Modern dry cleaning machines use a closed-loop system in which the chilled air is reheated and recirculated. This results in high solvent recovery rates and reduced air pollution. In the early days of dry cleaning, large amounts of perchlorethylene were vented to the atmosphere because it was regarded as cheap and believed to be harmless.\nAfter the drying cycle is complete, a deodorizing (aeration) cycle cools the garments and removes further traces of solvent, by circulating cool outside air over the garments and then through a vapor recovery filter made from activated carbon and polymer resins. After the aeration cycle, the garments are clean and ready for pressing and finishing.\n\nWorking solvent from the washing chamber passes through several filtration steps before it is returned to the washing chamber. The first step is a button trap, which prevents small objects such as lint, fasteners, buttons, and coins from entering the solvent pump.\n\nOver time, a thin layer of filter cake (called \"muck\") accumulates on the lint filter. The muck is removed regularly (commonly once per day) and then processed to recover solvent trapped in the muck. Many machines use \"spin disk filters\", which remove the muck from the filter by centrifugal force while it is back washed with solvent.\n\nAfter the lint filter, the solvent passes through an absorptive cartridge filter. This filter, which contains activated clays and charcoal, removes fine insoluble soil and non-volatile residues, along with dyes from the solvent. Finally, the solvent passes through a polishing filter, which removes any soil not previously removed. The clean solvent is then returned to the working solvent tank. Cooked powder residue is the name for the waste material generated by cooking down or distilling muck. It will contain solvent, powdered filter material (diatomite), carbon, non-volatile residues, lint, dyes, grease, soils, and water. The waste sludge or solid residue from the still contains solvent, water, soils, carbon, and other non-volatile residues. Used filters are another form of waste as is waste water.\n\nTo enhance cleaning power, small amounts of detergent (0.5–1.5%) are added to the working solvent and are essential to its functionality. These detergents emulsify hydrophobic soils and keep soil from redepositing on garments. Depending on the machine's design, either an anionic or a cationic detergent is used.\n\nThe international GINETEX laundry symbol for dry cleaning is a circle. It may have the letter P inside it to indicate perchloroethylene solvent, or the letter F to indicate a flammable solvent (Feuergefährliches Schwerbenzin). A bar underneath the circle indicates that only mild cleaning processes is recommended. A crossed-out empty circle indicates that dry cleaning is not permitted.\n\nPerchloroethylene (PCE, or tetrachloroethylene) has been in use since the 1930s. PCE is the most common solvent, the \"standard\" for cleaning performance. It is a most effective cleaning solvent. It is thermally stable, recyclable, and has low toxicity. It can, however, cause color bleeding/loss, especially at higher temperatures. In some cases it may damage special trims, buttons, and beads on some garments. It is better for oil-based stains (which account for about 10% of stains) than more common water-soluble stains (coffee, wine, blood, etc.). The toxicity of tetrachloroethylene \"is moderate to low\" and \"Reports of human injury are uncommon despite its wide usage in dry cleaning and degreasing\".\n\nThe U.S. state of California classified perchloroethylene a toxic chemical in 1991, and its use will become illegal in that state in 2023. However, it is still probably the most universally used dry cleaning solvent, at the present time.\n\nHydrocarbons are represented by products such as Exxon-Mobil's DF-2000 or Chevron Phillips' EcoSolv, and Pure Dry. These petroleum-based solvents are less aggressive but also less effective than PCE. Although combustible, risk of fire or explosion can be minimized when used properly. Hydrocarbons are however pollutants. Hydrocarbons retain about 10-12% of the market.\n\nTrichloroethylene is more aggressive than PCE but is very rarely used. With superior degreasing properties, it was often used for industrial workwear/overalls cleaning in the past. TCE is classified as carcinogenic to humans by the United States Environmental Protection Agency.\n\nSupercritical CO is an alternative to PCE, however it is inferior in removing some forms of grime. Additive surfactants improve the efficacy of CO\nCarbon dioxide is almost entirely nontoxic. The greenhouse gas potential is also lower than that of many organic solvents.\n\n\"Consumer Reports\" rated supercritical CO superior to conventional methods, but the Drycleaning and Laundry Institute commented on its \"fairly low cleaning ability\" in a 2007 report. Supercritical CO is, overall, a mild solvent which lowers its ability to aggressively attack stains.\n\nOne deficiency with supercritical CO is that its conductivity is low. As mentioned in the Mechanisms section, dry cleaning utilizes both chemical and mechanical properties to remove stains. When solvent interacts with the fabric's surface, the friction dislocates dirt. At the same time, the friction also builds up an electrical charge. Fabrics are very poor conductors and so usually, this build-up is discharged through the solvent. This discharge does not occur in liquid carbon dioxide and the build-up of an electrical charge on the surface of the fabric attracts the dirt back on to the surface, which diminishes its poor clearning efficiency. To compensate for the poor solubility and conductivity of supercritical carbon dioxide, research has focused on additives. For increased solubility, 2-propanol has shown increased cleaning effects for liquid carbon dioxide as it increases the ability of the solvent to dissolve polar compounds.\n\nMachinery for use of supercritical CO is expensive — up to $90,000 more than a PCE machine, making affordability difficult for small businesses. Some cleaners with these machines keep traditional machines on-site for the heavier soiled textiles, but others find plant enzymes to be equally effective and more environmentally sustainable.\n\nFor decades, efforts have been made to replace PCE. These alternatives have not proven economical thus far:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "879384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=879384", "title": "Entrée", "text": "Entrée\n\nAn entrée (, ; ) in modern French table service and that of much of the English-speaking world (apart from the United States and parts of Canada) is a dish served before the main course of a meal; it may be the first dish served, or it may follow a soup or other small dish or dishes. In the United States and parts of Canada, and to a limited extent in France and other French-speaking areas, the term entrée refers to the main dish or the only dish of the meal. \n\nThe word “entrée” as a culinary term first appears in print around 1536, in the \"Petit traicte auquel verrez la maniere de faire cuisine\", in a collection of menus at the end of the book. There, the first stage of each meal is called the \"entree de table\" (entrance to the table); the second stage consists of \"potaiges\" (foods boiled or simmered “in pots”); the third consists of one or more \"services de rost\" (meat or fowl “roasted” in dry heat); and the last is the \"issue de table\" (departure from the table). These four stages of the meal appear consistently in this order in all the books that derive from the \"Petit traicté\". \n\nThe terms \"entree de table\" and \"issue de table\" are organizing words, “describing the structure of a meal rather than the food itself”. The terms \"potaiges\" and \"rost\" indicate cooking methods but not ingredients. The menus, though, give some idea of the foods and cooking methods that were characteristic of each stage of the meal.\n\nSausages, offal, and raw “watery” fruits (oranges, plums, peaches, apricots, and grapes) were apparently considered uniquely appropriate for starting the meal, as these foods appear only in the \"entree de table\". Certain other dishes served in the entree might also be served in the later stages of the meal, such as venison cooked in various ways (\"entree\", \"potaiges\" and \"rost\" services) and savory pies and sauced meats (\"entree\" and \"rost\" services). This distribution of first-course dishes is very similar to that of the menus in the \"Ménagier de Paris\", written 150 years before the \"Petit traicté\". \n\nThe stages of the meal underwent several significant changes between the mid-16th and mid-17th century, and notably, the entrée became the second stage of the meal, and potage became the first. At this point, the term “entrée” had lost its literal meaning and had come to refer to a certain type of dish, unrelated to its place in the meal. The cookbooks and dictionaries of the 17th and 18th centuries rarely discuss directly the composition of the dishes for each stage of the meal, though they routinely designate recipes or include lists of dishes appropriate to each stage. Nevertheless, entrées and the dishes of the other stages of the meal can be distinguished from each other by certain characteristics, such as their ingredients, cooking methods, and serving temperature. \n\nIn the 17th, 18th, and 19th centuries, entrées, on meat days, included most butchers’ meats (but not ham), suckling pig, fowl, furred and feathered game, and offal. Eggs, on meat days, were never served as entrées; they were served only as entremets. Vegetables often made up part of the sauce or garnish, but entrées were always meat dishes; vegetable dishes were served only as entremets. \n\nOn lean days, fish and eggs replaced meat and fowl in every stage of the meal; and on these days, eggs did appear as entrées. Few entrées were composed only of vegetables. During Lent, though, vegetable entrées (“\"entrées en racines\"”, encompassing all vegetables, not just “roots”) were sometimes served. \n\nMoist cooking methods were characteristic of this stage of the meal, typical preparations being sautés, ragoûts, and fricassées. Meat or fowl (but not fish) might be roasted, but it was first wrapped in paper, or stuffed with a forcemeat, or barded with herbs or anchovies, or finished in a sauce, or prepared in some other way to keep the dish from browning and crisping like a true roast. Savory pies and pastries were baked in dry heat, but the enclosed meat cooked in its own steam and juices. \n\nAll entrées were served hot, and this was a salient feature of entrées until the 19th century.\n\nThese distinctions were at first loosely observed, or perhaps more accurately, the “rules” were in a formative stage for several decades. By the early 18th century, specific ingredients and cooking methods were increasingly confined to only one stage of the meal.\n\nIn the mid-18th century, entrées were increasingly divided into new categories based on the content and preparation of the dish. “Hors d'œuvres”, which, in the late 17th century, were served at several points during the meal, were considered a type of entrée in the 18th century; but by the 19th century, they had become a distinct stage of the meal. Large, whole joints of meat (usually beef or veal) and very large fowl (turkey and geese) were categorized as \"grandes\" or \"grosses entrées\". When roasted, these same joints and fowl were called “spit-roasted entrées” (\"entrées de broche\"); they were always served with a sauce to distinguish them from true roasts. When boiled, a joint of beef was called the “le bouilli”; this was generally the first of the entrées consumed in the meal, after the potages and hors d’œuvres. In the late 18th century, the practice arose of removing the empty soup tureens and replacing them with additional \"grosses entrées\" or \"entrées de broche\"; these replacement dishes were commonly called “relevés”; they were last of the entrées consumed at the meal, though they often appear on menus right after the potages. Taken together, all these bulky dishes were called “substantial entrées” (\"fortes entrées\"). \n\nThe most numerous of the entrées at any meal were the “ordinary entrées” (\"entrées ordinaires\"), consumed between the bouilli and the relevés. In composition, they were distinguished from the \"fortes entrées\" by the relatively small size of their ingredients. Small fowl could be served whole; but large fowl and large joints of meat were cut into pieces or fillets. Despite the designation “ordinary”, these entrées were much more elaborate and refined than \"fortes entrées\".\n\nIn the 19th century, due at least in part to the collapse of the church’s authority in France, rules governing meat and lean days were followed irregularly. In particular, fish was commonly served on meat days, providing even more variety to the meal. Fish came to be considered a classic relevé, and in some cases was served as a separate “fish course”. After the 1820s, the bouilli was no longer routinely served at fine dinners. In addition, cold entrées became increasingly common over the course of the 19th century, a marked change from earlier practices. \n\nFollowing the widespread adoption of service à la russe in the 1860s, dishes were presented one after another rather than being placed on the table for guests to select what they wanted. In this new type of service, the ordinary entrées were often served \"after\" the relevés, particularly in France; in England, the ordinary entrées more commonly preceded the relevés, as in the 18th century. At this point, the two terms had completely lost their literal meanings. “Entrée” referred to those entrées served in slices, fillets, or small pieces; “relevé” referred to those entrées served as large joints, whole birds, or whole fish. \n\nDistinctions between the various types of entrées (\"grosses\", \"grandes\", \"de broche\", \"relevé\") had fallen out of use by the end of the 19th century. The entrée as a stage of a multi-course meal persisted in some circles after the Great War; but with the broad cultural transformations of the 20th century, the word lost its connection to its traditional meaning.\n\nIn France, the modern meaning of “entrée” on a restaurant menu is the small course that precedes the main course in a three-course meal, i.e., the course which in British usage is often called the \"starter\" and in American usage the “appetizer”. Thus a typical modern French three-course meal in a restaurant consists of “entrée” (first course or starter (UK); appetizer (U.S.)), followed by the \"\"plat\" or \"plat principal\"\" (the main course), and then dessert or cheese. This sequence is commonly found in \"prix fixe\" menus.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10748669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10748669", "title": "Environmental dependency syndrome", "text": "Environmental dependency syndrome\n\nEnvironmental dependency syndrome, also called Zelig syndrome or Zelig-like syndrome from the name of the protagonist of Woody Allen's \"Zelig\", is a syndrome where the affected individual relies on environmental cues in order to accomplish goals or tasks. It is a disorder in personal autonomy that is influenced by individual psychological traits and can be helped through the intervention of other people. For example, adults diagnosed with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder have relied on special coaches to provide cues at appropriate times, helping them to make decisions about how to prioritize and order tasks.\n\n"}
{"id": "25671381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25671381", "title": "Healthcare in Chile", "text": "Healthcare in Chile\n\nHealthcare in Chile is provided by the government via Fondo Nacional de Salud (FONASA) and by private insurers via Instituciones de Salud Previsional (ISAPREs).\n\nChile was one of the first Latin American countries introducing health care for the middle class funded through mandatory deductions from the salary, as in the Bismarckian welfare state. In the 1950s it introduced a national health care system, headed by the agency Fondo Nacional de Salud (FONASA). During the last decade of the military dictatorship a two tier system developed as people could opt out and buy private health insurance from private insurance companies called Instituciones de Salud Previsional (ISAPREs) for care by private providers at private clinics and private hospitals, which cost up to twice as much.\n\nStarting in 1990, the civilian government increased public funding, especially for hospitals, without further reform for more than a decade. In the early 2000s, President Ricardo Lagos strengthened the public-sector. Private health care became more and more expensive and as of 2015 covers only 19% of the population, down from a peak of 26%. \n\nThe so-called \"Explicit Guarantee System (Acceso Universal con Garantías Explícitas, or AUGE), developed several guarantees for 56 health problems for the insured. It prescribed clinical guidelines and \"no longer wait than preset periods for diagnosis, treatment, or follow-up\", a maximum of out-of-pocket expense cap and a maximum designated waiting time, after which private providers for the services were an option. \nThe Lagos reform had earlier succeeded to reduce mortality rates especially with communicable diseases and mortality, even myocardial infarction it did so at the expense of chronic diseases. In 2010, the Constitutional Court of Chile declared the private insurance system's premiums adjustments for health risk by age and gender as discriminatory, disallowed it, but did not suggest an alternative mechanism. Health care consumer satisfaction has been decreasing since 2007 to its lowest point in 2014.\n\nAll workers and pensioners are mandated to pay 7% of income for health insurance (the poorest pensioners are exempt from this payment). Workers choosing not to join an Isapre are covered by Fonasa. Fonasa also covers those receiving unemployment benefits, uninsured pregnant women, the dependent family of insured workers, those with mental or physical disabilities, and the poor or indigent.\n\nFONASA beneficiaries may use public or private health facilities if the private health facility or health professional is associated with Fonasa in one of three pricing levels. When choosing public health facilities the cost is free for people older than 60, people without income or with disabilities and for workers earning less than one minimum wage (MW), or less than 1.46 MW if they have three or more dependents to take care of. Workers earning between one and 1.46 MW and having less than two dependents, or earning more than 1.46 MW and having three or more dependents, pay 10% of costs. Workers earning more than 1.46 MW pay 20% of costs if they have two or fewer dependents.\n\nThe level of protection offered by ISAPREs depends on the worker's income and medical risk, estimated by age, sex, family medical history, etc. (In August 2010 Chile's Constitutional Court declared risk determination based on sex and age to be unconstitutional.) This may force an affiliate to seek treatment under Fonasa when a particular service or health condition is not covered by their Isapre. Isapre participants pay on average 9.2% of their income toward health insurance. The additional paid over the required 7% is voluntary and is paid to increase the benefits available. Almost 60% of payers are in the top two quintiles of income, while only 7% are in the bottom quintile. Isapres often use networks of providers to offer discounted benefits. They also offer shorter time waiting for services. Fonasa, on the other hand, uses lower cost public hospitals, and can include a broader benefit package for the same cost. The trade-off is accessibility as the waiting time for services can be substantial.\n\nOver 50% of the public sector health budget is raised through taxation — this goes to the public social security system and the Fonasa plans to help cover expenses. Isapres cover all expenses using only the contributions of members.\n\nThere are a number of high-mortality pathological conditions (currently 80) that have special guarantees for both Isapre and Fonasa affiliates. The \"Auge\" (from the Spanish \"Acceso Universal con Garantías Explícitas\", \"Universal Access with Explicit Guarantees\") or \"Ges\" (\"Garantías Explícitas en Salud\", \"Explicit Guarantees in Healthcare\") plan includes four guarantees in relation to these illnesses:\n\n\nAs of December 22, 2014, there were 425 hospitals registered with the Ministry of Health.\n\nHospitals fall into one of two administrative spheres - the Regional Ministry of Chile (SEREMI Secretaria Regional Ministerial de Chile) and the National Health Care System (Sistema Nacional de Servicios de Salud). The SEREMI accounts for 54% of hospitals (230) while the National Health Care System accounts for the remaining 46% of hospitals (195).\n\nSantiago, the capital city and most populous region of the country, accounts for 36% of the population and 30% of the country's hospitals (127 hospitals).\n\nBeneficiaries as of December 2009.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10137204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10137204", "title": "Hospitalization Benefits Plan", "text": "Hospitalization Benefits Plan\n\nAlberta Hospitalization Benefits describes health law for the province of Alberta, Canada. Chapter 3, of the Hospitals Act, is the Hospitalization Benefits Plan, of the province of Alberta. Origins include the 1919 Municipal Hospitals Act, national Health Services Act of 1944, and the provincial Lloydminster Hospital Act of 1947.\n\n36 Definitions\n\n37 Insured services\n\n38 Entitlement to insured services\n\n39 Recovery of cost of services\n\n40 Payment for insured services\n\n41 Operating costs\n\n42 Debentures\n\n43 Regulations\n\n44 Group contracts\n\n45 Agreements\n\n46 Penalty\n\n47 Use of word \"hospital\"\n\n"}
{"id": "7513883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7513883", "title": "Inis Beag", "text": "Inis Beag\n\nInis Beag (Irish: \"Little Island\") is a remote island off the coast of Connemara, Ireland, near the Aran Islands. It contains a small, isolated Irish-speaking Catholic community which cultural anthropologist John Cowan Messenger observed in the 1960s, leading to several longer treatises, including \"Inis Beag: Isle of Ireland\" and \"Sex and Repression in an Irish Folk Community\". During the period of his study between 1958 and 1966, Inis Beag supported a population of around 350, mostly living by subsistence farming and fishing. The name \"Inis Beag\" is a name made up by researchers to protect the privacy of the island's people. Its true identity is Inisheer.\n\nMessenger used his study to discuss the pitfalls and advantages of nativism as it applied to the folk people of the island. After seven centuries of English occupation, a movement of Irish patriots promoted what they saw as the essential elements of Irish identity, including language and religion. This led to many researchers, tourists, and authors holding up Inis Beag and the surrounding areas as examples of true Irish identity. According to Messenger, the island was the subject of a great many works he described as \"romanticized,\" focusing on cultural forms that outsiders found attractive. These included \"the traditional garb of the folk, their skill in rowing the famed canoe, called \"curach\", the manner in which they manufacture soils and grow in them a variety of crops, and their Gaelic speech.\" Messenger was critical of the attitude of outsiders towards the purity of these customs. He found that 11 of the 111 adult males and 9 of the 85 adult females had given up the traditional local garb for imported styles from the mainland. This behavior was especially prevalent among the younger women, with no adherents between the ages of 18 and 29. He also found that use of the local \"curach\" had declined in recent decades, from 30 to 50 three-man crews fishing nearly all year in the early 1900s to nine crews working from the island in 1960. And despite the nativist opinion of the region's Gaelic, in his visit to the island, Messenger found that essentially all of the islanders older than eight spoke English proficiently, mixed English regularly into their speech, and even confessed to their priests in English. He attributed the rise in English to a practical view of language; many young people emigrate and would be disadvantaged by speaking only Gaelic.\n\nMessenger's study of this community has often been cited by anthropologists and sexologists as an example of extreme sexual repression. He reported that Inis Beag had no formal sex education, and sexual intercourse was treated by both sexes and the local curate as a \"duty\" which must be \"endured.\" Messenger proposed that the early replacement of physical affection with verbal affection—by the time a child can walk—led to institutionalized repression of sexual conduct. As he put it, \"any forms of direct or indirect sexual expression—masturbation, mutual exploration of bodies, use of either standard or slang words relating to sex, and open urination and defecation—are punished severely by word and deed.\" Children were separated by gender in almost all activities. Islanders tended to bathe only the hands, face, and feet and developed an \"obsessive fear\" of nudity early in life. In some households, \"dogs [were] whipped for licking their genitals and soon [learned] to indulge in this behavior outside when unobserved.\" The repressive atmosphere, according to the researchers, led to high levels of masturbation, drinking, and alcohol-fueled fights. And, of course, repression of sexuality also manifested in intercourse. Elders of the island boasted that there was no premarital sex, although some young men did admit to it in rumor. When couples did have sex with each other, as reported to Messenger, the husband always initiated, the wife was commonly passive, couples left their underclothes only partially removed and used only the male superior position, and when the man orgasmed, he fell asleep almost immediately.\n\nThe folk of the island behaved so strangely because informal and formal social control left them ignorant. Phenomena such as menstruation and menopause were regarded with profound misgivings because of extreme ignorance. Perplexed women asked Messenger's wife about the female cycle more than any other question about sex phenomena. Young women were often traumatized by menarche, and at least three older women had, in 1960, confined themselves entirely to bed to avoid a potential \"madness\" induced by menopause. Women sent their children out of the room when Messenger's wife would inquire about their pregnancies. Men were also grossly ignorant in regards to sex. Female orgasm was unknown to the men, not experienced by the women, or shunned and hidden. Messenger reported that one middle-aged bachelor who considered himself \"wise in the ways of the outside world . . . described the violent bodily reactions of a girl to his fondling\" and when Messenger explained, he \"admitted not knowing that women also could achieve climax.\" Men of the island thought sexual intercourse would weaken them, and would abstain the night before an exhausting task. Despite all this, Messenger could not report a single family that was childless due to ignorance, a phenomenon in some other regions of Ireland. When Messenger inquired how newly-married couples learned how to copulate, he was told that \"after marriage, nature takes its course.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46536057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46536057", "title": "Intelligence and personality", "text": "Intelligence and personality\n\nIntelligence and personality have some common features; for example, they both follow a relatively stable pattern throughout the whole of an individual’s life, which is genetically determined in different degrees. In addition, they are both significant predictors of various outcomes, such as educational achievement, occupational performance, and health. However, the traditional view in psychology is that there is no meaningful relationship between personality and intelligence and they should be studied as separate entities.\n\nFirstly, intelligence is considered to be a cognitive process, while personality is recognised as being non-cognitive, and this implies that there is a great distinction between personality and intelligence. However, other psychologists argue that the distinction between cognitive and non-cognitive is vague because almost all personality traits have cognitive attributes, although they are more obvious in some traits than in others. For example, neuroticism is a personality trait, but is also related to rumination and compulsive thinking about possible threats, while agreeableness is associated with understanding and considering the mental state of others.\n\nIn addition, different methods are generally used to assess intelligence and personality. Intelligence is normally measured by means of ability tests, whereas personality is usually assessed by means of questionnaires. Furthermore, different typical measurements lead to another conceptual distinction, which is that intelligence is considered to indicate individuals’ \"maximal performance\", while personality is believed to reflect their \"typical behaviour\". However, others argue that multiple methods can be used to assess intelligence and personality; for example, questionnaires that require to be rated by self, peers or observers can also be used to measure individuals’ mental ability, although these kinds of measurement may lack accuracy. Therefore, different typical methods cannot prove that the relationship between intelligence and personality is a meaningless one. In addition, since individuals’ ability can also affect their typical behaviour, IQ can predict outcomes related to aspects such as performance at work, academic achievement, and health. Therefore, ability tests can provide indices of both maximal performance and typical behaviour.\n\nAn increasing number of studies have recently explored the relationship between intelligence and the Big Five personality traits.\n\nOpenness shows the strongest positive relationship with \"g\" among the Big Five personality traits, ranging from r=.06 to r=.42. Individuals with a high level of openness enjoy the experience of learning and prefer an intellectually stimulating environment. Therefore, openness shows a significant moderate association with crystallized intelligence (r=.30), but a non-significant low association with fluid intelligence (r=.08), and these results are consistent with those of other studies.\n\nSome psychologists have recently pointed out that previous instruments used to measure openness actually assessed two distinctive aspects. The first is intellect, which reflects intellectual engagement and perceived intelligence and is marked by ideas, while the second is emotion, which reflects the artistic and contemplative qualities related to being engaged in sensation and perception and is marked by fantasy, aesthetics, feelings and actions. On this basis, intellect was found to be associated with the neural system of the working memory, which is related to \"g\", whereas openness was not. In addition, according to a study of genetic behaviour, intellect is genetically closer to intelligence than openness.\n\nThe association between conscientiousness and intelligence is complex and uncertain. Individuals with a lower level of intelligence are always assumed to tend to behave in an orderly fashion and do extra work, which is related to being conscientious, in order to compensate for their lower level of cognitive ability. However, although intelligence has been observed to be negatively correlated with conscientiousness in some studies, others have not found this correlation to be significant and have even found a positive relationship.\n\nFurthermore, some interaction has been found between conscientiousness and intelligence. Conscientiousness has been found to be a stronger predictor of safety behaviour in individuals with a low level of intelligence than in those with a high level. This interaction may also be found in educational and occupational settings in future studies. Therefore, relatively speaking, an increase in either conscientiousness or intelligence may compensate for a deficiency in the other.\n\nThe results of a meta-analysis research conducted in 1997, which consisted of 35 studies, indicated that there is a very small, but statistically significant positive correlation between Extraversion and \"g\" (r=.08). Another recent meta-analysis of extraversion, which comprised 50 new studies, reported a similar correlation (r=.05).\n\nThere are some moderating variables in the relationship between extraversion and \"g\" including differences in the assessment instruments and samples’ age and sensory stimulation; for example, no meaningful correlation was found between extraversion and intelligence in the samples of children. Furthermore, Bates and Rock (2004) used Raven’s matrices and found that extraverts performed better than introverts with increasing auditory stimulation, whereas introverts performed best in silence. This result is consistent with that of Revelle et al. (1976). In addition, different measures and different sub-traits of extraversion have been found to cause significantly different correlations.\n\nNeuroticism has been found to have a reliable negative association with \"g\"(r=-.33). However, other researchers have recently reported a lower coefficient of .09 for general mental ability and emotional stability. Although these studies have some differences, they all indicate that intelligence increases with a decrease in negative emotion.\n\nOne of the reasons for this negative correlation is Test anxiety, which refers to the psychological distress experienced by individuals prior to, or during, an evaluative situation. This is closely associated with neuroticism and has a negative influence on individuals’performance in an intelligence test (r=-.23).\n\nSome argue that all the aforementioned evidence indicates that neuroticism is related to test performance rather than true intelligence. However, according to the results of a longitudinal study recently conducted by Gow et al., (2005), neuroticism influences an age-related decline in intelligence and there is a small negative correlation between neuroticism and a change in the level of IQ (r=-.18). Although it is still debatable if neuroticism reduces general intelligence, this study provided some valuable evidence and a direction for research. \nIn addition, some interaction between intelligence and neuroticism has been found. Individuals with a high level of neuroticism demonstrated a poor performance, health, and adjustment only if they had a low level of intelligence. Therefore, intelligence may act as a buffer and compensate neuroticism in individuals.\n\nNo significant association between agreeableness and \"g\" has been found in previous research. However, some components of agreeableness have been found to be related to intelligence. For example, aggression is negatively associated with intelligence (r is around -.20) because unintelligent people may experience more frustration, which may lead to aggression and aggression and intelligence may share some biological factors. In addition, emotional perception and emotional facilitation, which are also components of agreeableness, have been found to be significantly correlated with intelligence. This may be because emotional perception and emotional facilitation are components of emotional intelligence and some researchers have found that emotional intelligence is a Second-Stratum Factor of \"g\".\n"}
{"id": "56668648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56668648", "title": "James Muirhead (swimmer)", "text": "James Muirhead (swimmer)\n\nJames Muirhead (born 21 September 1953) is a British Paralympic swimmer who won thirteen medals at the Summer Paralympic Games. His Paralympic debut was at the 1976 Summer Paralympics where he won two gold medals and two silvers. Muirhead repeated that feat in Arnhem for the 1980 Games, albeit in different events. He returned from the 1984 Summer Paralympics with a fifth gold, another silver, and three bronze medals.\n\nMuirhead lost his sight at age 17. He qualified and worked as a physiotherapist.\n"}
{"id": "21048342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21048342", "title": "Jon Tvedt", "text": "Jon Tvedt\n\nJon Tvedt (29 June 1966 – 11 January 2009) was a Norwegian orienteering competitor and athlete who specialized in mountain running. He died while still active in his sport.\n\nTvedt originally competed in orienteering. At the 1993 World Orienteering Championships in West Point, Tvedt competed in three events. He finished fourth in the short distance, jointly with Steven Hale, and eleventh in the classic distance. In the relay he finished sixth together with teammates Rolf Vestre, Håvard Tveite and Petter Thoresen. At the 1995 World Orienteering Championships in Detmold, Tvedt finished eleventh in the short distance, sixth in the classic distance and fourth in the relay together with teammates Petter Thoresen, Håvard Tveite and Bjørnar Valstad. Finally, at the 1999 World Orienteering Championships in Inverness, Tvedt finished eighth in the classic distance. His best placement in the Orienteering World Cup was a fourteenth place overall, achieved in 1996.\n\nTvedt later took up mountain running. He competed internationally at the European Championships in 2005 and 2007. In 2005 he finished twentieth in the individual race, and thirteenth in the team competition. In 2007 he finished twenty-eighth in the individual race, and tenth in the team competition.\n\nIn 1994 Tvedt won a bronze medal at the Norwegian championship in 12 kilometres cross-country running. In 1998 Tvedt won a silver medal at the Norwegian championship in 10 kilometres cross-country running, behind Karl Johan Rasmussen. He represented the club FIK BFG Fana. In 1999 he had changed club to IL Gular, and won a bronze medal at the national championship, in a race won by Abderrahim Goumri. He won the inaugural Norwegian mountain running championships in 2005, ahead of Odd-Bjørn Hjelmeset and Hans Martin Gjedrem of winter sports fame. Tvedt then defended his title three times.\n\nTvedt died in January 2009, during a training hike at Gullfjellet.\n"}
{"id": "30983446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30983446", "title": "Lake Varaždin", "text": "Lake Varaždin\n\nLake Varaždin () is a reservoir on the Drava in northern Croatia. It is administratively divided between Međimurje County and Varaždin County, bordered by the municipalities of Varaždin, Trnovec Bartolovečki and Čakovec. The Drava flows into the reservoir near the city of Varaždin, while the dam is located near the village of Šemovec.\n\nLake Varaždin is one of three reservoirs built on the Drava in Croatia, the other two being the smaller Lake Ormož (which is located on the border with Slovenia) and the bigger Lake Dubrava. The three reservoirs and the power plants they serve form the Hydro North group of hydro power plants run by the HEP Group. It serves the Čakovec Hydro Power Plant, since the Varaždin Hydro Power Plant is served by Lake Ormož. The power plant was built in 1982.\n\nLake Varaždin is also a popular angling, leisure and water sports destination for many people from the region, especially during the summer. There are many log cabins built on the shores of the lake near Varaždin and Gornji Kuršanec.\n"}
{"id": "7575461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7575461", "title": "Licentiate of the Medical Council of Canada", "text": "Licentiate of the Medical Council of Canada\n\nLicentiate of the Medical Council of Canada, commonly abbreviated as LMCC, is not a license to practice medicine, but is generally a requirement to gain an independent practise license (a license to practise medicine) in Canada. \n\nThe LMCC is granted to a physician that meet the following criteria:\n\nA medical graduate can be registered in the Canadian Medical Register provided he or she has successfully completed:\n\nThe issuance of a license to practice is the function of the medical regulatory authorities. When a candidate has satisfied the various requirements imposed by the medical regulatory authority, the final step towards licensure to practice is to submit an application to the Registrar of that medical regulatory authority.\n\n"}
{"id": "22191761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22191761", "title": "Liquid oxygen (supplement)", "text": "Liquid oxygen (supplement)\n\nLiquid oxygen supplements are products that claim to add extra oxygen to the human body, most often through a chemical process in the digestive system, like the breakdown of hydrogen peroxide or magnesium peroxide. While the FDA describes these products as being inert, and has penalized some producers who made explicit medical claims, it has not prohibited their sale.\n\nLiquid Oxygen is the name of a product that is a solution of hydrogen peroxide and other compounds including sodium chloride (common salt) that claims to help with \"jet lag, fatigue, altitude sickness, headaches, hangovers, youthful skin, energy, and insomnia\". \n\nProfessor Ken Harvey, a member of the World Health Organization team that formulated criteria for the promotion of medicinal drugs and a member of Auspharm Consumer Health Watch, states that the product is \"no more than salty water\", and that most forms of water carry some dissolved oxygen. The Federal Trade Commission has prosecuted some makers of such products for making \"blatantly false and unsubstantiated health claims\", although it has not banned the sale of such products.\n\nThe product claims to have an effect through increasing the amount of oxygen in the body but this is unnecessary as oxygen is absorbed by the lungs via breathing. Among the ingredients sometimes listed by makers are magnesium peroxide, or \"deionized water and sodium chloride [salt]\". It cannot contain simple liquid oxygen, which would boil at -297°F(-183°C) at normal pressure, but ostensibly contains oxygen in some other form, like hydrogen peroxide, that will be released after consumption.\n\nVitamin O is a dietary supplement marketed and sold by Rose Creek Health Products and its sister company The Staff of Life (doing business as R-Garden) since 1998. Despite its name, the product is not recognized by nutritional science as a vitamin. In 1999, the Federal Trade Commission fined the manufacturer for making false statements claiming health benefits resulting from the use of the product. The manufacturer had claimed that taking the supplement had beneficial effects on a wide variety of ailments, including angina, anaemia, and various forms of cancer, and that it also increased vigor and provided for a more positive state of mind. The company states that Vitamin O is \"a special supplemented oxygen taken in liquid form and produced through electrical-activation with a saline solution from the ocean,\" and that the substance increases the amount of oxygen present in the blood.\n\nWhile Rose Creek Health Products complied with the Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act of 1994 in that the product was sold without approval by the Food and Drug Administration because no claims about its medical efficacy were made by its producers, Rose Creek collected statements from users who attributed wide-ranging benefits to taking their supplement. However, subsequent ads also ran statements allegedly coming from experts and which provided anecdotal evidence from small-scale clinical trials showing positive results in several patients. Because of this, the Federal Trade Commission filed an injunction in March 1999 against Rose Creek Health Products Inc., stating that the ads being run in both print and online sources, including \"USA Today\", were \"blatantly false\". Studies run on Vitamin O showed it to be composed largely of salt water as well as a small quantity of germanium, which would provide no benefits not attributable to the placebo effect.\n\nOn April 28, 2000, Rose Creek Health Products Inc., agreed to pay a cash settlement of $375,000 for consumer redress, and to abstain from making claims as to the health benefits attributed to the supplement, or promoting its efficacy in treating illnesses. However, in 2005, the Food and Drug Administration issued a warning letter to R-Garden, indicating that its product labeling, website, and literature that the company distributed with shipped product were promoting Vitamin O as drugs — i.e., agents intended for use in the cure, mitigation, treatment or prevention of disease. These included testimonial claims that a person unable to walk because of congestive heart failure had been able to walk again and ceased taking \"heart pills or pain pills\" after a three-month course of the product, and that another was able to breathe very easily again despite chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and repeated prior bouts of chronic bronchitis and pneumonia thanks to the product. As of 2010, the product contains a disclaimer stating \"This product is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease\".\n"}
{"id": "13826181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13826181", "title": "Madhu Reddy", "text": "Madhu Reddy\n\nMadhu Reddy is a Professor in the School of Communication at Northwestern University. Previously he was a faculty member in the Penn State College of Information Sciences and Technology, and the School of Management and Information Systems at the University of Missouri-Rolla.\n\nHe is the recipient of the 2002 Diana Forsythe Prize given by the American Medical Informatics Association for the best paper of the year at the intersection of medical informatics and social science. Reddy currently chairs the Diana Forsythe Award Committee.\n\nDr. Reddy received his Ph.D. in Information and Computer Science from the University of California, Irvine in 2005. He also holds two master's degrees: M.S. in Information and Computer Science from the University of California, Irvine (1999) and M.S. in Health Care Administration from the California State University, Long Beach (1995). He received his B.S. in Biological Sciences from the University of California, Irvine (1994) and B.A. in Political Science from the University of California, Irvine (1992).\n\nDr. Reddy's research interests are Medical Informatics, Computer-Supported Cooperative Work, Human-Computer Interaction, and Information Sciences. He has published ten papers on academic journals or books, and eleven papers on peer-reviewed conference proceedings (till October 2007).\n\nHis previous research focused on examining how patient care team members used their knowledge of temporal features of work (e.g., temporal rhythms, trajectories, and horizons) for collaborative purposes. The research provided a theoretical basis for understanding the centrality of temporality in collaborative work and highlighted the importance of incorporating temporal features into the design of information systems.\n\nMost of his current research focuses on three major themes: (1) Collaborative information behavior; (2) Temporal features of collaborative work and (3) Collaborative support for teams. He explores these themes utilizing qualitative methods within the health care domain primarily in hospital environments.\n\nHis research collaborators include Paul Dourish, Wanda Pratt, John King, Mark Ackerman, Jonathan Grudin, Gloria Mark, John Yen, etc.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "691745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=691745", "title": "Marian Chace", "text": "Marian Chace\n\nMarian Chace (31 October 1896 – 19 July 1970) is one of the founders of modern dance therapy. \n\nMarion Chace was born 31 October 1896 in Providence, Rhode Island, the daughter of Daniel Champlin Chace, a journalist and editor, and Harriet Edgaretta (Northrop) Chace. Her younger siblings were Marjorie (1899–1991), Olive (1905–1977), and Edgar Northrop Chace (1908–1983). \n\nShe studied modern dance and choreography with Ted Shawn and Ruth St. Denis at the Denishawn School of Dance and started work as a dance performer. However she believed that the body and mind are interrelated, and influenced by the work of Carl Jung. \n\nShe began to teach in Washington D.C. and noticed some of her students were more interested in the expression of emotions than in dance technique and began to emphasize this in her classes. Her students reported feelings of well being which intrigued local doctors, some of the National Institutes of Health, who began to send some of their patients to her classes. Her approach included body active, symbolism, therapeutic movement relationship, and rhythmic group activity. Eventually she joined the staff at St. Elizabeth’s hospital in southeast Washington D.C. and studied at the Washington School of Psychiatry. Chace started to teach in schools and hospitals advocating and lecturing on the therapeutic benefits of dance/body movement. \nShe worked for a number of years with patients at Chestnut Lodge in Rockville, MD. \n\nIn the 1960s she founded a training program for dance therapists New York. In 1966 she founded the American Dance Therapy Association and became its first president. \n\n> \"Marian Chace: Her Papers\" by Harris Chaiklin. Columbia, Maryland:American Dance Therapy Association, 1975. \n\nhealthpronet.org/ahp_month/04_05.html\n"}
{"id": "4985687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4985687", "title": "Mount Saint Mary's Hospital", "text": "Mount Saint Mary's Hospital\n\nMount St. Mary's Hospital and Health Center is a privately sponsored Catholic hospital in Lewiston, New York, just north of Niagara Falls, New York, where approximately 60% of the hospital's patients reside.\n\nThe hospital was formed in 1907 by the Sisters of St. Francis, who came north from Buffalo to care for the sick and the poor. In 1997, the Sisters of St. Francis turned over sponsorship to the Daughters of Charity. In 2000, the Daughters of Charity merged with the Sisters of St. Joseph to create Ascension Health. The system expanded in 2002 with the addition of the Sisters of St. Joseph of Carondelet Health System. Ascension Health is the largest not-for-profit and religiously sponsored healthcare system in the nation.\n\nMount St. Mary's includes:\nIn 2012 the hospital had an annual payroll and benefits of more than $54 million.\n\nStaff includes nearly 200 physicians, more than 300 RNs and LPNs, and allied health professionals and numerous employees in supporting roles. In all, Mount St. Mary’s Hospital and Health Center employs more than 1,200 people and has about 250 volunteers. Mount St. Mary's is a New York State Department of Health Designated Stroke Center and a certified Chest Pain Center. It is also the only hospital in the Niagara area accredited by The Joint Commission.\n"}
{"id": "55365859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55365859", "title": "Museum of Pasta", "text": "Museum of Pasta\n\nThe Museum of Pasta (in Italian Museo della pasta) is an Italian ethnographic museum dedicated to pasta. It is located in Corte di Giarola, between Collecchio and Ozzano Taro, in the Province of Parma, a region historically dedicated to the production and processing of pasta. The museum shares space with the Museum of Tomato (in Italian Museo del pomodoro).\n\nIn 2001, the Comitato Promotore dei Musei del Cibo (literally the Promoting Committee of Food Museums) was founded. Starting 2003 and 2004, it cooperated with the Association of the Food Museums of the Province of Parma, that had brought together the Province of Parma, the Communes of Soragna, Langhirano and Collecchio, a consortium of protectionists of typical food products, the Chamber of Commerce of Parma and various economic associations, all interested in the creation and management of a network of Food Museums in the province of Parma. This resulted in launching of an initiative to establish a museum in Corte di Giarola, a public building, and a great medieval rural court, as a museum dedicated to the tomato. It shares space with an adjoining Museum of Tomato (in Italian Museo del pomodoro).\n\nThe Museum of Pasta is located on the ground floor of the west wing of Corte di Giarola that was renovated. It was earlier a centre for processing agricultural food products dating back to the medieval times until the end of the 19th century, later a processing industry for conserve and food in for the first six decades of the 20th century. The museum was inaugurated on May 10, 2014 coinciding with a conference with a convention dedicated to \"La pasta tra storia, cultura e gastronomia\" (meaning \"Pasta: history, culture and gastronomy\") with invitees collector Ettore Guatelli, poet Attilio Bertolucci and entrepreneur Pietro Barilla, the Italian coordinator of the Food Museums and famous food journalist Davide Paolini.\n\nThe exhibition halls of the Museum of Pasta are divided into six sections. The first section, describes through a series of panels and documents, models and vintage farming tools and the historical evolution of grain and cereal cultivation techniques.The second hall illustrates, through panels, models, and the reconstruction of a mill the historical evolution of grinding techniques and the third hall bread and bakery products. The fourth hall illustrates, through a collection of small household utensils of the past, homemade pasta preparation techniques and various sizes of pasta. The fifth hall has a replica of an industrial pasta factory dating back to the early 19th century and some ancient machinery, the techniques of industrial pasta manufacturing and the methods of forming its more than hundred types. Finally the sixth hall illustrates, through panels, postcards, advertising leaflets, objects, paintings, stamps and catalogs, the rich culture of pasta in Italy.\n\n"}
{"id": "1195987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1195987", "title": "Naltrexone", "text": "Naltrexone\n\nNaltrexone, sold under the brand names ReVia and Vivitrol among others, is a medication primarily used to manage alcohol or opioid dependence. An opioid-dependent person should not receive naltrexone before detoxification. It is taken by mouth or by injection into a muscle. Effects begin within 30 minutes. A decreased desire for opioids, though, may take a few weeks.\nSide effects may include trouble sleeping, anxiety, nausea, and headaches. In those still on opioids, opioid withdrawal may occur. Use is not recommended in people with liver failure. It is unclear if use is safe during pregnancy. Naltrexone is an opioid antagonist and works by blocking the effects of opioids, both those from inside and outside the body.\nNaltrexone was first made in 1965 and was approved for medical use in the United States in 1984. As of 2017, the wholesale cost of tablets is about US$0.74 per day in the US. The extended-release injections cost about $1,267 per month ($41.20 per day). Naltrexone, as bupropion/naltrexone, is also used to treat obesity.\n\nNaltrexone has been best studied as a treatment for alcoholism. Naltrexone has been shown to decrease the amount and frequency of drinking. It does not appear to change the percentage of people drinking. Its overall benefit has been described as \"modest\".\n\nAcamprosate may work better than naltrexone for eliminating drinking, while naltrexone may decrease the desire for alcohol to a greater extent.\n\nThe Sinclair method is a method of using opiate antagonists such as naltrexone to treat alcoholism. The person takes the medication about an hour (and only then) before drinking to avoid side effects that arise from chronic use. The opioid antagonist blocks the positive-reinforcement effects of alcohol and allows the person to stop or reduce drinking.\n\nLong-acting injectable naltrexone decreases heroin use more than placebo. It has benefits over methadone and buprenorphine in that it is not a restricted medication. It may decrease cravings for opioids after a number of weeks, and decreases the risk of overdose. It is given once per month and has better compliance than the oral formulation.\n\nA 2011 review found insufficient evidence to determine the effect of naltrexone taken by mouth in opioid dependence. While some do well with this formulation, it must be taken daily, and a person whose cravings become overwhelming can obtain opioid intoxication simply by skipping a dose. Due to this issue, the usefulness of oral naltrexone in opioid use disorders is limited by the low retention in treatment. Naltrexone by mouth remains an ideal treatment for a small number of people with opioid use, usually those with a stable social situation and motivation. With additional contingency management support, naltrexone may be effective in a broader population.\n\nNaltrexone is not useful for quitting smoking.\n\nNaltrexone is available and most commonly used in the form of an oral tablet (50 mg). Vivitrol, a naltrexone formulation for depot injection containing 380 mg of the medication per vial, is also available. Additionally, naltrexone subcutaneous implants that are surgically implanted are available. While these are manufactured in Australia, they are not authorized for use within Australia, but only for export. By 2009, naltrexone implants showed encouraging results.\n\nNaltrexone should not be used by persons with acute hepatitis or liver failure, or those with recent opioid use (typically 7–10 days).\n\nThe most common side effects reported with naltrexone are gastrointestinal complaints such as diarrhea and abdominal cramping. These adverse effects are analogous to the symptoms of opioid withdrawal, as the mu receptor blockade will increase GI motility.\n\nNaltrexone has been reported to cause liver damage (when given at doses higher than recommended). It carries an FDA boxed warning for this rare side effect. Due to these reports, some physicians may check liver function tests prior to starting naltrexone, and periodically thereafter. Concerns for liver toxicity initially arose from a study of nonaddicted obese patients receiving 300 mg of naltrexone. Subsequent studies have suggested limited toxicity in other patient populations.\n\nNaltrexone should not be started until several (typically 7-10) days of abstinence from opioids have been achieved. This is due to the risk of acute opioid withdrawal if naltrexone is taken, as naltrexone will displace most opioids from their receptors. The time of abstinence may be shorter than 7 days, depending on the half-life of the specific opioid taken. Some physicians use a naloxone challenge to determine whether an individual has any opioids remaining. The challenge involves giving a test dose of naloxone and monitoring for opioid withdrawal. If withdrawal occurs, naltrexone should not be started.\n\nNaltrexone and its active metabolite 6β-naltrexol are competitive antagonists at the μ-opioid receptor (MOR), the κ-opioid receptor (KOR) to a lesser extent, and, to a far lesser extent, at the δ-opioid receptor (DOR).\n\nThe blockade of opioid receptors is the basis behind naltrexone's action in the management of opioid dependence—it reversibly blocks or attenuates the effects of opioids. Its mechanism of action in alcohol dependence is not fully understood, but as an opioid receptor antagonist is likely to be due to the modulation of the dopaminergic mesolimbic pathway (one of the primary centers for risk-reward analysis in the brain, and a tertiary \"pleasure center\") which is hypothesized to be a major center of the reward associated with addiction that all major drugs of abuse are believed to activate. Mechanism of action may be antagonism to endogenous opioids such as tetrahydropapaveroline, whose production is augmented in the presence of alcohol.\n\nNaltrexone is metabolized in the liver mainly to 6β-naltrexol by the enzyme dihydrodiol dehydrogenase. Other metabolites include 2-hydroxy-3-methoxy-6β-naltrexol and 2-hydroxy-3-methoxy-naltrexone. These are then further metabolized by conjugation with glucuronide. The plasma half-life of naltrexone and its metabolite 6β-naltrexol are about 4 hours and 13 hours, respectively.\n\nTentative evidence suggests that family history and presence of the Asn40Asp polymorphism predicts naltrexone being effective.\n\nNaltrexone can be described as a substituted oxymorphone – here the tertiary amine methyl-substituent is replaced with methylcyclopropane. Naltrexone is the N-cyclopropylmethyl derivative of oxymorphone.\n\nThe closely related medication, methylnaltrexone, is used to treat opioid-induced constipation, but does not treat addiction as it does not cross the blood–brain barrier. Nalmefene is similar to naltrexone and is used for the same purposes as naltrexone. Naltrexone should not be confused with naloxone, which is used in emergency cases of opioid overdose. Other related opioid antagonists include nalodeine and samidorphan.\n\nNaltrexone was first synthesized in 1963 by Metossian at Endo Laboratories, a small pharmaceutical company in New York City. It was characterized by Blumberg, Dayton, and Wolf in 1965 and was found to be an orally active, long-acting, and very potent opioid antagonist. The drug showed advantages over earlier opioid antagonists such as cyclazocine, nalorphine, and naloxone, including its oral activity, a long duration of action allowing for once-daily administration, and a lack of dysphoria, and was selected for further development. It was patented by Endo Laboratories in 1967 under the developmental code name EN-1639A and Endo Laboratories was acquired by DuPont in 1969. Clinical trials for opioid dependence began in 1973, and a developmental collaboration of DuPont with the National Institute on Drug Abuse for this indication started the next year in 1974. The drug was approved by the FDA for the oral treatment of opioid dependence in 1984, with the brand name Trexan, and for the oral treatment of alcohol dependence in 1995, when the brand name was changed by DuPont to ReVia. A depot formulation for intramuscular injection was approved by the FDA under the brand name Vivitrol for alcohol dependence in 2006 and opioid dependence in 2010.\n\nNaltrexone is the generic name of the drug and its , , , , and , while naltrexone hydrochloride is its and .\n\nNaltrexone is or has been marketed under a variety of brand names, including Adepend, Antaxone, Celupan, Depade, Nalorex, Narcoral, Nemexin, Revia/ReVia, Trexan, and Vivitrol. It is also marketed in combination with bupropion (bupropion/naltrexone) as Contrave and was marketed with morphine (morphine/naltrexone) as Embeda. A combination of naltrexone with buprenorphine (buprenorphine/naltrexone) has been developed, but has not been marketed.\n\nThe FDA authorized use of injectable naltrexone for opioid addiction using a single study that was led by Evgeny Krupitsky at Bekhterev Research Psychoneurological Institute, St Petersburg State Pavlov Medical University, St Petersburg, Russia, a country where opioid agonists such as methadone and buprenorphine are not available. The study was a \"double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized\", 24-week trial running \"from July 3, 2008, through October 5, 2009\" with \"250 patients with opioid dependence disorder\" at \"13 clinical sites in Russia\" on the use of injectable naltrexone (XR-NTX) for opioid dependence. The study was funded by the Boston-based biotech Alkermes firm which produces and markets naltrexone in the United States. A 2011 article reported that this single trial of naltrexone was performed not by comparing it to the best available, evidence-based treatment (methadone or buprenorphine), but by comparing it with a placebo. A subsequent RCT in Norway did compare injectable naltrexone to buprenorphine and found them to be similar in outcomes.\n\nIn May 2017, United States Secretary of Health and Human Services Tom Price, praised [Vivitrol] as the future of opioid addiction treatment after visiting the company’s plant in Ohio. His remarks set off sharp criticism with almost 700 experts in the field of substance abuse submitting a letter to Price cautioning him about Vivitrol's \"marketing tactics\" and warning him that his comment \"ignore widely accepted science\". The experts pointed out that Vivitrol's competitors, buprenorphine and methadone, are \"less expensive\", \"more widely used\", and have been \"rigorously studied\".\n\nPrice had claimed that buprenorphine and methadone were \"simply substitute[s]\" for \"illicit drugs\" whereas according to the letter, \"the substantial body of research evidence supporting these treatments is summarized in guidance from within your own agency, including the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration, the US Surgeon General, the National Institute on Drug Abuse, and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. To briefly summarize, buprenorphine and methadone have been demonstrated to be highly effective in managing the core symptoms of opioid use disorder, reducing the risk of relapse and fatal overdose, and encouraging long-term recovery.\"\n\nAccording to a June 11, 2017, \"The New York Times\" article, Alkermes \"has spent years coaxing, with a deft lobbying strategy that has targeted lawmakers and law enforcement officials. The company has spent millions of dollars on contributions to officials struggling to stem the epidemic of opioid abuse. It has also provided thousands of free doses to encourage the use of Vivitrol in jails and prisons, which have by default become major detox centers\".\n\nNaltrexone is sometimes used in the treatment of dissociative symptoms such as depersonalization and derealization. Some studies suggest it might help. Other small, preliminary studies have also shown benefit. Blockade of the KOR by naltrexone and naloxone is thought to be responsible for their effectiveness in ameliorating depersonalization and derealization. Since these drugs are less efficacious in blocking the KOR relative to the MOR, higher doses than typically used seem to be necessary.\n\n\"Low-dose naltrexone\" (LDN) describes the \"off-label\" use of naltrexone at low doses for diseases not related to chemical dependency or intoxication, such as multiple sclerosis. More research needs to be done before it can be recommended for clinical use.\n\nAlthough some scientific studies show its efficacy in some conditions such as fibromyalgia, other, more dramatic claims for its use in conditions such as cancer and HIV have less scientific support. This treatment has received significant attention on the Internet, especially through websites run by organizations promoting its use.\n\nOne study suggests that self-injurious behaviors present in persons with developmental disabilities (including autism) can sometimes be remedied with naltrexone.\nIn these cases, the self-injury is believed to be done to release beta-endorphin, which binds to the same receptors as heroin and morphine. If the \"rush\" generated by self-injury is removed, the behavior may stop.\n\nSome indications exist that naltrexone might be beneficial in the treatment of impulse-control disorders such as kleptomania, compulsive gambling, or trichotillomania (compulsive hair pulling), but evidence of its effectiveness for gambling is conflicting. A 2008 case study reported successful use of naltrexone in suppressing and treating an internet pornography addiction.\n\nNaltrexone is effective in suppressing the cytokine-mediated adverse neuropsychiatric effects of interferon alpha therapy.\n\n"}
{"id": "27892383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27892383", "title": "National Radium Trust", "text": "National Radium Trust\n\nThe National Radium Trust was a British organisation, set up on 25 July 1929, and abolished with the introduction of the NHS in 1948. It was intended to collect funding from the general public, and use it for supplying radium and other radiotherapeutic devices, to treat sick people in Great Britain.\n\n"}
{"id": "8149734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8149734", "title": "National Wear Red Day", "text": "National Wear Red Day\n\nNational Wear Red Day is a day in February when many people wear red to show their support for the awareness of heart disease.\n\nIt occurs in America on the first Friday in February each year, where people wear red.\n\n\"The Heart Truth\"—is a national awareness campaign for women about heart disease sponsored by the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, part of the National Institutes of Health, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. Designed to warn women of their #1 health threat, \"The Heart Truth\" created and introduced the Red Dress as the national symbol for women and heart disease awareness in 2002 to deliver an urgent wakeup call to American women.\n\nWear Red Day is held every February and organised in the United Kingdom by Yorkshire based charity Children's Heart Surgery Fund to raise awareness of congenital heart disease.\n"}
{"id": "32588273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32588273", "title": "October 2010 raid on smart drug shops in Poland", "text": "October 2010 raid on smart drug shops in Poland\n\nOn 2 October 2010, the Poland's State Health Inspectorate (Główny Inspektorat Sanitarny) in a controversial decision, closed down and sealed off almost 1400 retail \"smart shops\" specializing in the off sales of psychoactive substances in Poland. A few weeks following the operation, a law was passed to criminalise all open sales of psychotropic and mind-altering drugs, including those not on the government list of banned psychotropic drugs in Poland. Some of the drugs previously sold at smart shops were banned earlier in March 2009 (benzylpiperazine, \"Salvia divinorum\"') and 2010 (mephedrone).\n\nThe decision was personally supported by the Polish prime minister Donald Tusk, who said: \"In the war against drugs, if need be, we will act at the edge of law.\" (\"W walce z dopalaczami, jak będzie trzeba, będziemy działać na granicy prawa\"). According to statistics of the Ministry of Health, the initiative brought almost immediate positive results. The number of patients hospitalized at toxicology departments went down to only 16 patients countrywide between 14–18 October 2010. Before 14 October there were 18 deaths from overdose alone. \n\nThe fight against designer drugs is the Polish European Union Presidency's top priority in the area of home affairs and Polish government plans. After closing down existing retail smart shops, the Polish government wants to create an EU-wide law to ban designer drugs, especially the internet sale of them.\n\n"}
{"id": "53467372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53467372", "title": "Paresh Dandona", "text": "Paresh Dandona\n\nParesh Dandona is an American physician, currently a SUNY Distinguished Professor at University of Buffalo.\n"}
{"id": "44411716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44411716", "title": "Partial least squares path modeling", "text": "Partial least squares path modeling\n\nThe partial least squares path modeling or partial least squares structural equation modeling (PLS-PM, PLS-SEM) is a method of structural equation modeling which allows estimating complex cause-effect relationship models with latent variables.\n\nPLS-PM is a component-based estimation approach that differs from the covariance-based structural equation modeling. Unlike covariance-based approaches to structural equation modeling, PLS-PM does not fit a common factor model to the data, it rather fits a composite model ; In doing so, it maximizes the amount of variance explained (though what this means from a statistical point of view is unclear and PLS users do not agree on how this goal might be achieved). In addition, by an adjustment PLS is capable to consistently estimate common factor models as well. This new approach is called consistent PLS (PLSc). Furthermore, PLS-PM can be used for out-sample prediction purposes. \n\nThe PLS structural equation model is composed of two sub-models: the measurement model and structural model. The measurement model represents the relationships between the observed data and the latent variables. The structural model represents the relationships between the latent variables.\n\nAn iterative algorithm solves the structural equation model by estimating the latent variables by using the measurement and structural model in alternating steps, hence the procedure's name, partial. The measurement model estimates the latent variables as a weighted sum of its manifest variables. The structural model estimates the latent variables by means of simple or multiple linear regression between the latent variables estimated by the measurement model. This algorithm repeats itself until convergence is achieved.\n\nWith the availability of software applications, PLS-SEM became particularly popular in social sciences disciplines such as accounting, family business, marketing, management information systems, operations management, strategic management, and tourism. Recently, areas such as engineering, environmental sciences, medicine, and political sciences more broadly use PLS-SEM to estimate complex cause-effect relationship models with latent variables. Thereby, they analyse, explore and test their established and underlying their conceptual models and theory.\n\nPLS is viewed critically by several methodological researchers. A major point of contention has been the claim that PLS can always be used with very small sample sizes. A recent study suggests that this claim is generally unjustified, and proposes two methods for minimum sample size estimation in PLS. Another point of contention is the ad hoc way in which PLS has been developed and the lack of analytic proofs to support its main feature: the sampling distribution of PLS weights. However, PLS-SEM is still considered preferable (over CB-SEM) when it is unknown whether the data's nature is common factor- or composite-based.\n"}
{"id": "19123388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19123388", "title": "Phlegmasia alba dolens", "text": "Phlegmasia alba dolens\n\nPhlegmasia alba dolens (also colloquially known as milk leg or white leg) is part of a spectrum of diseases related to deep vein thrombosis. Historically, it was commonly seen during pregnancy and in mothers who have just given birth. In cases of pregnancy, it is most often seen during the third trimester, resulting from a compression of the left common iliac vein against the pelvic rim by the enlarged uterus. Today, this disease is most commonly (40% of the time) related to some form of underlying malignancy. Hypercoagulability (a propensity to clot formation) is a well-known state that occurs in many cancer states. The incidence of this disease is not well reported.\nThe disease presumably begins with a deep vein thrombosis that progresses to total occlusion of the deep venous system. It is at this stage that it is called phlegmasia alba dolens. It is a sudden (acute) process. The leg, then, must rely on the superficial venous system for drainage. The superficial system is not adequate to handle the large volume of blood being delivered to the leg via the arterial system. The result is edema, pain and a white appearance (\"alba\") of the leg. \n\nThe next step in the disease progression is occlusion of the superficial venous system, thereby preventing all venous outflow from the extremity. At this stage it is called phlegmasia cerulea dolens. The leg becomes more swollen and increasingly more painful. Additionally, the edema and loss of venous outflow impedes the arterial inflow. Ischemia with progression to gangrene are potential consequences. Phlegmasia alba dolens is distinguished, clinically, from phlegmasia cerulea dolens in that there is no ischemia.\n\nPhlegmasia alba dolens literally means \"painful white edema\". It received the name \"milk leg\" because it was once thought to be caused by the metastasis of milk.\n"}
{"id": "58082332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58082332", "title": "Podari Zhizn", "text": "Podari Zhizn\n\nPodari Zhizn () is a countrywide Russian non-governmental charitable organization founded in 2006 by actresses Dina Korzun and Chulpan Khamatova. It has sister charities in the United Kingdom (Gift of Life) and in the United States (Podari.Life).\n\nThe main goal of the foundation is treatement, support and rehabilitation of children and young adults with oncological, hematological and other life-threatening conditions in Russia and CIS.\n\nThe Russian branch of the organization was founded on 26 November 2006 by famous Russian actresses Chulpan Khamatova and Dina Korzun. The idea was proposed by Galina Chalikova, who then became the first director of the organization, and by oncohematologists Galina Novichkova, Alexei Maschan, and Mikhail Maschanov. Previously, similarly named benefit concerts were organized by a group of activists, most prominently by Yuri Shevchuk.\n\nSince then, regular events have been organized in Moscow featuring many Russian celebrities, e.g. Andrey Makarevich, Chaif, Oleg Basilashvili, Alisa Freindlich, Diana Arbenina, Marina Neyolova, Liya Akhedzhakova, Leonid Yarmolnik, Sergei Garmash, Artur Smolyaninov, Viktoriya Tolstoganova, Emmanuil Vitorgan, Konstantin Khabensky, Vyacheslav Butusov, Ilya Lagutenko, Mumiy Troll, Neschastny Sluchai and others.\n\nThe foundation established connections with leading medical facilities, such as Dmitry Rogachev National Research Center of Pediatric Hematology, Oncology and Immunology; Russian Children’s Clinical Hospital, Russian Research Center of Radiology, Moscow Regional Oncology Center, N. N. Institute of Neurosurgery, Morozov Children’s Municipal Clinical Hospital, and S.P. Botkin Municipal Clinical Hospital, and oncology centers in Russian regions.\n\nIn 2011, the Federal Center for Pediatric Onco-Hematology was established, which received state-of-the-art equipment from Podari Zhizn. The Center delivers treatment to more than one thousand patients annually.\n\nEach year in June, Podari Zhizn organizes The World Children's Winners Games to help children who have overcome cancer get back to normal life and rehabilitate after the long battle with the disease.\n\nA UK-based sister charity of Podari Zhizn, Gift of Life, was established on 2 March 2011 in London. Gift of Life works together with Podari Zhizn and Podari.Life to maximize support and care for children with cancer and their families, who might \notherwise have no hope for successful treatment. Gift of Life raises funds for purchasing vital cancer medications currently unavailable in Russia, funding treatments abroad and arranging teaching and operating visits of foreign medical professionals to The Federal Center for Pediatric Onco-Hematology in Moscow. It also facilitates searches for and activation of suitable bone marrow transplants in international donor registers, if a donor cannot be found among the patient’s relatives.\n\nThe Gift of Life have organized numerous cultural events and fundraisers in London. They feature British, Russian and international stars, e.g. Teodor Currentzis, Ralph Fiennes, Vanessa Redgrave, Katie Melua, Stephen Fry, Mark-Francis Vandelli, Vivien Duffield.\n\nThe main fundraiser of the charity in The Gift of Life Russian Old New Year’s Eve Gala. In 2017 Gift of Life and its supporters were able to help over 75 Russian patients, and spent £783,097 on vital cancer medicines, surgeries and treatments abroad. The most recent data on Gift of Life income and spending can be searched at the Charity Commission website..\n\nOn 1 June 2015, Podari.Life Inc was founded in the United States by a group of enthusiasts who have volunteered at Podari Zhizn. Its mission is to advance public education about childhood cancer and to increase awareness among medical professionals in Russia.\n\nThe foundation engages in multiple activities in the field of oncology in Russia. Its stated goals are:\n\n\nIt also successfully lobbies for legislative changes and tax incentives that will promote access to anticancer drugs and improve conditions of oncological patients.\n\nSince its creation, the Russian branch of the foundation has helped over 40 000 children and young adults. It is Russia's leading childhood cancer organization and one of the most recognizable independent charity foundations in Russia.\nIn 2012, the founders received a special prize For Humanism by the Russian Academy of Cinema Arts and Science.\n\n"}
{"id": "267922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267922", "title": "Prostate-specific antigen", "text": "Prostate-specific antigen\n\nProstate-specific antigen (PSA), also known as gamma-seminoprotein or kallikrein-3 (KLK3), is a glycoprotein enzyme encoded in humans by the \"KLK3\" gene. PSA is a member of the kallikrein-related peptidase family and is secreted by the epithelial cells of the prostate gland. PSA is produced for the ejaculate, where it liquefies semen in the seminal coagulum and allows sperm to swim freely. It is also believed to be instrumental in dissolving cervical mucus, allowing the entry of sperm into the uterus.\n\nPSA is present in small quantities in the serum of men with healthy prostates, but is often elevated in the presence of prostate cancer or other prostate disorders. PSA is not a unique indicator of prostate cancer, but may also detect prostatitis or benign prostatic hyperplasia.\n\nClinical practice guidelines for prostate cancer screening vary and are controversial due to uncertainty as to whether the benefits of screening ultimately outweigh the risks of overdiagnosis and over treatment. In the United States, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has approved the PSA test for annual screening of prostate cancer in men of age 50 and older. The patient needs to be informed of the risks and benefits of PSA testing prior to performing the test (see below). PSA levels between 4 and 10 ng/mL (nanograms per milliliter) are considered to be suspicious and consideration should be given to confirming the abnormal PSA with a repeat test. If indicated, prostate biopsy is performed to obtain tissue sample for histopathological analysis. In the United Kingdom, the National Health Service (2018) does not mandate, nor advise for PSA test, but allows patients to decide based on their doctor's advice.\n\nAs of 2018 the UK National Health Service did not offer general PSA screening, for similar reasons.\n\nWhile PSA testing may help 1 in 1,000 avoid death due to prostate cancer, 4 to 5 in 1,000 would die from prostate cancer after 10 years even with screening. This means that PSA screening may reduce mortality from prostate cancer by up to 25%. Expected harms include anxiety for 100 – 120 receiving false positives, biopsy pain, and other complications from biopsy for false positive tests. Of those found to have prostate cancer, frequent overtreatment is common because most cases of prostate cancer are not expected to cause any symptoms. Therefore, many will experience the side effects of treatment, such as for every 1000 men screened, 29 will experience erectile dysfunction, 18 will suffer urinary incontinence, 2 will have serious cardiovascular events, 1 will suffer pulmonary embolus or deep venous thrombosis, and 1 perioperative death. Since the expected harm relative to risk of death are perceived by patients as minimal, men found to have prostate cancer usually (up to 90% of cases) elect to receive treatment.\n\nMen with prostate cancer may be characterized as low-, intermediate-, or high-risk for having/developing metastatic disease or dying of prostate cancer. PSA level is one of three variables on which the risk-stratification is based; the others are the grade of prostate cancer (Gleason grading system) and the stage of cancer based on physical examination and imaging studies. D'Amico Criteria for each risk category are as follows:\nGiven the relative simplicity of the 1998 D’Amico criteria (above), other predictive models of risk stratification based on mathematical probability constructs exist or have been proposed to allow for better matching of treatment decisions with disease features. \nStudies are being conducted into the incorporation of multiparametric MRI imaging results into nomograms that rely on PSA, Gleason grade and tumor stage.\n\nPSA levels are monitored periodically (e.g., every 6–36 months) after treatment for prostate cancer - more frequently in patients with high-risk disease, less frequently in patients with lower-risk disease. If surgical therapy (i.e., radical prostatectomy) is successful at removing all prostate tissue (and prostate cancer), PSA becomes undetectable within a few weeks. A subsequent rise in PSA level above 0.2 ng/mL L is generally regarded as evidence of recurrent prostate cancer after a radical prostatectomy; less commonly, it may simply indicate residual benign prostate tissue.\n\nFollowing radiation therapy of any type for prostate cancer, some PSA levels might be detected, even when the treatment ultimately proves to be successful. This makes it more difficult to interpret the relationship between PSA levels and recurrence/persistence of prostate cancer after radiation therapy. PSA levels may continue to decrease for several years after radiation therapy. The lowest level is referred to as the PSA nadir. A subsequent increase in PSA levels by 2.0 ng/mL above the nadir is the currently accepted definition of prostate cancer recurrence after radiation therapy.\n\nIf recurrent prostate cancer is detected by a rise in PSA levels after curative treatment, it is referred to as a \"biochemical recurrence\". The likelihood of developing recurrent prostate cancer after curative treatment is related to the pre-operative variables described in the preceding section (PSA level and grade/stage of cancer). Low-risk cancers are the least likely to recur, but they are also the least likely to have required treatment in the first place.\n\nPSA is produced in the epithelial cells of the prostate, and can be demonstrated in biopsy samples or other histological specimens using immunohistochemistry. Disruption of this epithelium, for example in inflammation or benign prostatic hyperplasia, may lead to some diffusion of the antigen into the tissue around the epithelium, and is the cause of elevated blood levels of PSA in these conditions.\n\nMore significantly, PSA remains present in prostate cells after they become malignant. Prostate cancer cells generally have variable or weak staining for PSA, due to the disruption of their normal functioning. Thus, individual prostate cancer cells produce less PSA than healthy cells; the raised serum levels in prostate cancer patients is due to the greatly increased number of such cells, not their individual activity. However, in most cases of prostate cancer, the cells remain positive for the antigen, which can therefore be used to identify metastasis. Since some high-grade prostate cancers may be entirely negative for PSA, however, histological analysis to identify such cases usually uses PSA in combination with other antibodies, such as PSAP and CD57.\n\nPSA was first identified by researchers attempting to find a substance in seminal fluid that would aid in the investigation of rape cases. PSA is now used to indicate the presence of semen in forensic serology. The semen of adult males has PSA levels far in excess of those found in other tissues; therefore, a high level of PSA found in a sample is an indicator that semen may be present. Because PSA is a biomarker that is expressed independently of spermatozoa, it remains useful in identifying semen from vasectomized and azoospermic males.\n\nPSA can also be found at low levels in other body fluids, such as urine and breast milk, thus setting a high minimum threshold of interpretation to rule out false positive results and conclusively state that semen is present. While traditional tests such as crossover electrophoresis have a sufficiently low sensitivity to detect only seminal PSA, newer diagnostics tests developed from clinical prostate cancer screening methods have lowered the threshold of detection down to 4 ng/mL. This level of antigen has been shown to be present in the peripheral blood of males with prostate cancer, and rarely in female urine samples and breast milk. No studies have been performed to assess the PSA levels in the tissues and secretions of pre-pubescent children. Therefore, the presence of PSA from a high sensitivity (4 ng/mL) test cannot conclusively identify the presence of semen, so care must be taken with the interpretation of such results.\n\nThe physiological function of KLK3 is the dissolution of the coagulum, the sperm entrapping gel composed of semenogelins and fibronectin. Its proteolytic action is effective in liquefying the coagulum so that the sperm can be liberated. The activity of PSA is well regulated. In the prostate it is present as an inactive pro-form which is activated through the action of KLK2, another kallikrein-related peptidase. In the prostate, zinc ion concentrations are ten times higher than in other bodily fluids. Zinc ions have a strong inhibitory effect on the activity of PSA and on that of KLK2, so that PSA is totally inactive. Further regulation is achieved through pH variations. Although its activity is increased by higher pH, the inhibitory effect of zinc also increases. The pH of semen is slightly alkaline and the concentrations of zinc are high. On ejaculation, semen is exposed to the acidic pH of the vagina, due to the presence of lactic acid. In fertile couples, the final vaginal pH after coitus approaches the 6-7 levels, which coincides well with reduced zinc inhibition of PSA. At these pH levels, the reduced PSA activity is countered by a decrease in zinc inhibition. Thus, the coagulum is slowly liquefied, releasing the sperm in a well regulated manner.\n\nProstate-specific antigen (PSA, also known as kallikrein III, seminin, semenogelase, γ-seminoprotein and P-30 antigen) is a 34-kD glycoprotein produced almost exclusively by the prostate gland. It is a serine protease () enzyme, the gene of which is located on the 19th chromosome (19q13) in humans.\n\nThe discovery of prostate-specific antigen (PSA) is beset with controversy; as PSA is present in prostatic tissue and semen, it was independently discovered and given different names, thus adding to the controversy.\n\nFlocks was the first to experiment with antigens in the prostate and 10 years later Ablin reported the presence of precipitation antigens in the prostate.\n\nIn 1971, Mitsuwo Hara characterized a unique protein in the semen fluid, gamma-seminoprotein. Li and Beling, in 1973, isolated a protein, E1, from human semen in an attempt to find a novel method to achieve fertility control.\n\nIn 1978, Sensabaugh identified semen-specific protein p30, but proved that it was similar to E1 protein, and that prostate was the source. In 1979, Wang purified a tissue-specific antigen from the prostate ('prostate antigen').\n\nPSA was first measured quantitatively in the blood by Papsidero in 1980, and Stamey carried out the initial work on the clinical use of PSA as a marker of prostate cancer.\n\nPSA is normally present in the blood at very low levels. The reference range of less than 4 ng/mL for the first commercial PSA test, the Hybritech Tandem-R PSA test released in February 1986, was based on a study that found 99% of 472 apparently healthy men had a total PSA level below 4 ng/mL.\n\nIncreased levels of PSA may suggest the presence of prostate cancer. However, prostate cancer can also be present in the complete absence of an elevated PSA level, in which case the test result would be a false negative.\n\nObesity has been reported to reduce serum PSA levels. Delayed early detection may partially explain worse outcomes in obese men with early prostate cancer. After treatment, higher BMI also correlates to higher risk of recurrence.\n\nPSA levels can be also increased by prostatitis, irritation, benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH), and recent ejaculation, producing a false positive result. Digital rectal examination (DRE) has been shown in several studies to produce an increase in PSA. However, the effect is clinically insignificant, since DRE causes the most substantial increases in patients with PSA levels already elevated over 4.0 ng/mL.\n\nThe \"normal\" reference ranges for prostate-specific antigen increase with age, as do the usual ranges in cancer, as per table below.\n\nDespite earlier findings, recent research suggests that the rate of increase of PSA (e.g. >0.35 ng/mL/yr, the 'PSA velocity') is not a more specific marker for prostate cancer than the serum level of PSA.\n\nHowever, the PSA rate of rise may have value in prostate cancer prognosis. Men with prostate cancer whose PSA level increased by more than 2.0 ng per milliliter during the year before the diagnosis of prostate cancer have a higher risk of death from prostate cancer despite undergoing radical prostatectomy. PSA velocity (PSAV) was found in a 2008 study to be more useful than the PSA doubling time (PSA DT) to help identify those men with life-threatening disease before start of treatment.\n\nMen who are known to be at risk for prostate cancer, and who decide to plot their PSA values as a function of time (i.e., years), may choose to use a semi-log plot. An exponential growth in PSA values appears as a straight line on a semi-log plot, so that a new PSA value significantly above the straight line signals a \"switch\" to a new and significantly higher growth rate, i.e., a higher PSA velocity.\n\nMost PSA in the blood is bound to serum proteins. A small amount is not protein bound and is called 'free PSA'. In men with prostate cancer the ratio of free (unbound) PSA to total PSA is decreased. The risk of cancer increases if the free to total ratio is less than 25%. (See graph at right.) The lower the ratio is, the greater the probability of prostate cancer. Measuring the ratio of free to total PSA appears to be particularly promising for eliminating unnecessary biopsies in men with PSA levels between 4 and 10 ng/mL. However, both total and free PSA increase immediately after ejaculation, returning slowly to baseline levels within 24 hours.\n\nThe PSA test in 1994 failed to differentiate between prostate cancer and benign prostate hyperplasia (BPH) and the commercial assay kits for PSA did not provide correct PSA values.\n\nThe presence of inactive proenzyme forms of PSA is another potential indicator of disease.\n\nPSA exists in serum in the free (unbound) form and in a complex with alpha 1-antichymotrypsin; research has been conducted to see if measurements of complexed PSA are more specific and sensitive biomarkers for prostate cancer than other approaches.\n\nIt is now clear that the term prostate-specific antigen is a misnomer: it is an antigen but is not specific to the prostate. Although present in large amounts in prostatic tissue and semen, it has been detected in other body fluids and tissues.\n\nIn women, PSA is found in female ejaculate at concentrations roughly equal to that found in male semen. Other than semen and female ejaculate, the greatest concentrations of PSA in biological fluids are detected in breast milk and amniotic fluid. Low concentrations of PSA have been identified in the urethral glands, endometrium, normal breast tissue and salivary gland tissue. PSA also is found in the serum of women with breast, lung, or uterine cancer and in some patients with renal cancer.\n\nTissue samples can be stained for the presence of PSA in order to determine the origin of malignant cells that have metastasized.\n\nProstate-specific antigen has been shown to interact with protein C inhibitor.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5216974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5216974", "title": "Rating scale", "text": "Rating scale\n\nA rating scale is a set of categories designed to elicit information about a quantitative or a qualitative attribute. In the social sciences, particularly psychology, common examples are the Likert response scale and 1-10 rating scales in which a person selects the number which is considered to reflect the perceived quality of a product.\n\nA rating scale is a method that requires the rater to assign a value, sometimes numeric, to the rated object, as a measure of some rated attribute\n\nAll rating scales can be classified into one or two of three types:\n\nSome data are measured at the ordinal level. Numbers indicate the relative position of items, but not the magnitude of difference. Attitude and opinion scales are usually ordinal; one example is a Likert response scale:\n\n\nSome data are measured at the interval level. Numbers indicate the magnitude of difference between items, but there is no absolute zero point. A good example is a Fahrenheit/Celsius temperature scale where the differences between numbers matter, but placement of zero does not.\n\nSome data are measured at the ratio level. Numbers indicate magnitude of difference and there is a fixed zero point. Ratios can be calculated. Examples include age, income, price, costs, sales revenue, sales volume and market share.\n\nMore than one rating scale question is required to measure an attitude or perception due to the requirement for statistical comparisons between the categories in the polytomous Rasch model for ordered categories. In terms of Classical test theory, more than one question is required to obtain an index of internal reliability such as Cronbach's alpha, which is a basic criterion for assessing the effectiveness of a rating scale and, more generally, a psychometric instrument.\n\nRating scales are used widely online in an attempt to provide indications of consumer opinions of products. Examples of sites which employ ratings scales are IMDb, Epinions.com, Yahoo! Movies, Amazon.com, BoardGameGeek and TV.com which use a rating scale from 0 to 100 in order to obtain \"personalised film recommendations\".\n\nIn almost all cases, online rating scales only allow one rating per user per product, though there are exceptions such as \"Ratings.net\", which allows users to rate products in relation to several qualities. Most online rating facilities also provide few or no qualitative descriptions of the rating categories, although again there are exceptions such as \"Yahoo! Movies\", which labels each of the categories between F and A+ and BoardGameGeek, which provides explicit descriptions of each category from 1 to 10. Often, only the top and bottom category is described, such as on \"IMDb\"'s online rating facility.\n\nValidity refers to how well a tool measures what it intends to measure.\nWith each user rating a product only once, for example in a category from 1 to 10, there is no means for evaluating internal reliability using an index such as Cronbach's alpha. It is therefore impossible to evaluate the validity of the ratings as measures of viewer perceptions. Establishing validity would require establishing both reliability and accuracy (i.e. that the ratings represent what they are supposed to represent).The degree of validity of an instrument is determined through the application of logic/or statistical procedures.\" A measurement procedure is valid to the degree that if measures what it proposes to measure\"\n\nAnother fundamental issue is that online ratings usually involve convenience sampling much like television polls, i.e. they represent only the opinions of those inclined to submit ratings.\n\nValidity is concerned with different aspects of the measurement process.Each of these types uses logic, statistical verification or both to determine the degree of validity and has special value under certain conditions. Types of validity include content validity, predictive validity, and construct validity.\n\nSampling errors can lead to results which have a specific bias, or are only relevant to a specific subgroup. Consider this example: suppose that a film only appeals to a specialist audience—90% of them are devotees of this genre, and only 10% are people with a general interest in movies. Assume the film is very popular among the audience that views it, and that only those who feel most strongly about the film are inclined to rate the film online; hence the raters are all drawn from the devotees. This combination may lead to very high ratings of the film, which do not generalize beyond the people who actually see the film (or possibly even beyond those who actually rate it).\n\nQualitative description of categories improve the usefulness of a rating scale. For example, if only the points 1-10 are given without description, some people may select 10 rarely, whereas others may select the category often. If, instead, \"10\" is described as \"near flawless\", the category is more likely to mean the same thing to different people. This applies to all categories, not just the extreme points.\n\nThe above issues are compounded, when aggregated statistics such as averages are used for lists and rankings of products. User ratings are at best ordinal categorizations. While it is not uncommon to calculate averages or means for such data, doing so cannot be justified because in calculating averages, equal intervals are required to represent the same difference between levels of perceived quality. The key issues with aggregate data based on the kinds of rating scales commonly used online are as follow:\n\nMore developed methodologies include Choice Modelling or Maximum Difference methods, the latter being related to the Rasch model due to the connection between Thurstone's law of comparative judgement and the Rasch model.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "403653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=403653", "title": "Sexual stimulation", "text": "Sexual stimulation\n\nSexual stimulation is any stimulus (including bodily contact) that leads to, enhances and maintains sexual arousal, and may lead to orgasm. Although sexual arousal may arise without physical stimulation, achieving orgasm usually requires physical sexual stimulation.\n\nThe term \"sexual stimulation\" often implies stimulation of the genitals, but may also include stimulation of other areas of the body, stimulation of the senses (such as sight or hearing) and mental stimulation (i.e. from reading or fantasizing). Sufficient stimulation of the penis in males and the clitoris in females usually results in an orgasm. Stimulation can be by self (e.g., masturbation) or by a sexual partner (sexual intercourse or other sexual activity), by use of objects or tools, or by some combination of these methods.\n\nSome people practice orgasm control, whereby a person or their sexual partner controls the level of sexual stimulation to delay orgasm, and to prolong the sexual experience leading up to orgasm.\n\nPhysical sexual stimulation usually consists of touching the genitals or other erogenous zones. Masturbation, erotic massage, sexual intercourse, a handjob or fingering are types of physical sexual stimulation involving the genitals. Sexual arousal is usually triggered through sensitive nerves in these body parts, which cause the release of pleasure-causing chemicals (endorphins) that act as mental rewards to pursue such stimulation. A person may also become sexually aroused by touching another person's genitals or other body parts. The bulbocavernosus reflex is triggered by stimulation of the glans penis or clitoris.\n\nThe purpose of sex toys is to provide pleasure and stimulation through an alternative route than just using people's bodies. They can be used by someone on their own, with partnered sex, or group sex. They can be exciting and provide new types of stimulation that the body cannot produce, such as vibrations.\n\nSex toys have been used as a source of sexual stimulation for thousands of years. There have been dildos found from the Palaeolithic era, made of Siltstone and polished to a high gloss. Dildos were also made of camel dung and coated with resin. Historians are uncertain whether these have been used for religious rituals or for personal pleasure. It is known that dildos were used for fertility rituals, however. The Ancient Greeks created their dildos from a carved penis covered in leather or animal intestines to create a more natural feel. The Romans created double-ended dildos for use with a partner. Ancient Chinese dildos were made of bronze or other metals and some were hollow allowing them to be filled with liquid to simulate an ejaculation. These were used because wealthy Chinese men would often have too many wives to please. In Persia, they thought that the blood of the hymen was unclean, and should be avoided by husbands. On the night before a lady's wedding, a local holy-man would come and break her hymen with a large stone dildo, a ritual also used to confirm the virginity of the bride.\n\nThere are many areas through which a person can be sexually stimulated, other than the genitals. To name a few, the nipples, thighs, lips, and neck can all provide sexual stimulation when touched. \n\nNipples: One study administered a questionnaire about sexual activity to 301 participants and found that 81.5% of women reported that stimulating their nipples caused or enhanced sexual arousal and that 59.1% of them asked to have their nipples stimulated during sex. Furthermore, 51.7% of men reported that nipple stimulation caused sexual arousal, and 39% said that it enhanced their existing arousal. Research using brain-scanning technology found that stimulating nipples in women resulted in the activation of the genital area of the sensory cortex. The research suggests the sensations are genital orgasms caused by nipple stimulation, and may also be directly linked to \"the genital area of the brain\". In women, one study indicated that sensation from the nipples travels to the same part of the brain as sensations from the vagina, clitoris and cervix. Nipple stimulation may trigger uterine contractions, which then produce a sensation in the genital area of the brain.\n\nThighs: In 2012 the California Institute of Technology measured brain responses in heterosexual males as they were having their inner thighs touched whilst being MRI scanned. They were either watching a video of a woman touching their thigh or a man touching their thigh. They reported more sexual pleasure when they thought it was the woman touching them than the man, and this was reflected in their MRI scans with greater arousal of their somatosensory cortex. It can be therefore concluded that the thighs are an area that can cause sexual stimulation when touched.\n\nLips: Lips contain a huge number of nerve endings and are considered to be an erogenous zone. Men report experiencing more pleasure from the stimulation of their lips than women do (see below for sex differences in stimulation). In addition to stimulation of the lips by touching, men can be visually stimulated by looking at a woman's lips. It has also been reported that men prefer women with fuller lips because they are an indicator of youth.\n\nNeck: A sample of 800 participants and rated 41 different body parts on their erogenous intensity on a scale of 1-10 (10 being the most arousing). Females reported neck stimulation as being more arousing than men did, and the nape of the neck was more arousing for both sexes than the back of the neck.\n\nThis table shows the sex differences in erogenous zones and includes the top ten most arousing areas for both sexes. Each body part was rated out of ten for how arousing it is when touched. Apart from body parts exclusive to one gender such as the penis or clitoris, many of the erogenous zones are similar and contain lots of nerve endings. They suggested also that women experience more areas of greater arousal than men do. \nThe excitation-transfer theory states that existing arousal in the body can be transformed into another type of arousal. For example, sometimes people can be sexually stimulated from residual arousal arising from something such as exercise, being transformed into another type of arousal such as sexual arousal. In one study participants performed some physical exercise and at different stages of recovery had to watch an erotic film and rate how aroused it made them feel. They found that participants who were still experiencing excitatory residues from the exercise rated the film as more arousing than those who had fully recovered from the exercise. This suggests that the remaining arousal from the exercise was being transformed into sexual arousal without any external stimulation.\n\nThe human sexual response is a dynamic combination of cognitive, emotional, and physiological processes. Whilst the most common forms of sexual stimulation discussed are fantasy or physical stimulation of the genitals and other erogenous areas, sexual arousal may also be mediated through alternative routes such as visual, olfactory and auditory means.\n\nPerhaps the most researched non-tactile form of sexual stimulation is visual sexual stimulation. An apparent example is the act of voyeurism – a practice where an individual covertly watches another undress or engage in sexual behaviour. Although seen socio-historically as an unacceptable form of 'sexual deviation', it highlights the human tendency to find sexual stimulation through purely visual routes. The multibillion-dollar industry that is pornography is yet another example. A common presumption in society and the media is that men respond more strongly to visual sexual stimuli than do women. This is perhaps best exemplified by the Kinsey hypothesis that men are more prone to sexual arousal from visual stimulation than women and, arguably, can be seen depicted through the \"male glaze\" that dominates the pornography industry. Nonetheless, both sexes can be sexually aroused through visual stimulation. In one study, visual stimulation was tested by means of an erotic video. Although significantly higher in the male group, sexual arousal was the main emotional reaction reported by both sexes. Their physiological responses to the video also showed characteristics of sexual arousal, such as increased urinary excretions of adrenaline. A subsequent study investigating male arousal showed that men were able to achieve rigid erections through visual stimulation of an erotic film alone.\n\nStudies that use visual stimulation as a means for sexual stimulation find that sexual arousal is predominantly correlated with an activation in limbic and paralimbic cortex and in subcortical structures, along with a deactivation in several parts of the temporal cortex. These same areas are activated during physical sexual stimulation highlighting how powerful visual stimulation can be as a means of sexual arousal.\n\nOlfactory information is critical to human sexual behavior. One study investigating olfactory sexual stimulation found that men experience sexual arousal in response to a female perfume. Individuals rated odourant stimulation and perceived sexual arousal. They also had functional MRI scans taken during the experiment. The results showed that olfactory stimulation with women's perfume produces activation of specific brain areas associated with sexual arousal in men.\n\nEvolutionary analysis of sex differences in reproductive strategies can help explain the importance of smell in sexual arousal due to its link to immunological profile and offspring viability. This is because olfactory cues may be able to trigger an incest avoidance mechanism by reflecting parts of an individual's genetic equipment. In one study, males rated visual and olfactory information as being equally important for selecting a lover, while females considered olfactory information to be the single most important variable in mate choice. Additionally, when considering sexual activity, females singled out body odour from all other sensory experiences as most able to negatively affect desire.\n\nAuditory stimulants may also serve to intensify sexual arousal and the experience of pleasure. Making sounds during sexual arousal and sexual activity is widespread among primates and humans. These include sighs, moans, strong expirations and inspirations, increased breathing rate and occasionally, at orgasm, screams of ecstasy. Many of these sounds are highly exciting to men and women, and act as strong reinforcers of sexual arousal, creating a powerful positive feedback effect. Thus, copulatory vocalisations are likely to serve mutual sexual stimulation for mating partners.\n\nEven when not coupled with \"touching\", sounds can be highly sexually arousing. Commercial erotic material (mainly produced for the male market) uses such sounds extensively. As early as the 1920s and 30s, several genres of singers turned to \"low moans\" for erotic effect. Vaudeville Jazz singers often incorporated sex sounds into the narrative of the lyrics. Even contemporary music such as Prince's \"Orgasm\" or Marvin Gaye's \"You Sure Love to Ball\" includes sounds of the female orgasm. Research has shown music to be an auditory sexual stimulant. In one mood induction study, exposure to certain music resulted in significantly greater penile tumescence and subjective sexual arousal for men. In a similar experiment, women did not show significant physiological responses to certain types of music but did reported higher levels of sexual arousal. Further studies have looked at the connection between auditory stimulation and the experience of sexual pleasure. Whilst the highest levels of physiological and subjective arousal were found for visual stimuli, spoken-text was found to elicit sexual arousal in men implicating sounds a means for sexual stimulation.\n\nSexual arousal includes feelings, attractions and desires, as well as physiological changes. These can be elicited not only by physical but also mental stimulations, such as fantasy, erotic literature, dreams, role-play, and imagination.\nSexual fantasy is a form of mental sexual stimulation which many people engage in. It is where a person imagines a sexual experience while they are awake. Fantasy has less social or safety limits than in real life situations. It gives people more freedom to experiment or think of things they could not necessarily try in real life and can be anything from imagining your spouse naked, to imagining a sexual experience with a mythical creature. Common sexual fantasies include imagining activities with a loved partner, reliving past experiences and experiences with multiple partners of the opposite gender. It's also common to have fantasies about things you would not do in real life and about taboo or illegal activities, such as forcing another, or being forced to have sex, intercourse with a stranger and sex with a boy or girl or older partner.\n\nIt is useful for research because it makes differences between male and female heterosexual preferences clearer than studies of behaviour. Many sexual fantasies are shared between men and women, possibly because of cultural influence. However, there are still gender differences that have been found. Men are more likely than women to imagine being in a dominant or active role, whereas women are more likely to imagine themselves as passive participants. Women's fantasies have significantly more affection and commitment, whereas men are more likely to fantasise using visual imagery and explicit detail. One explanation of this difference comes from the evolutionary perspective. Women have a higher minimum parental investment than males (they have 9 months of gestation prior birth and are then the main care givers, whereas men only have to provide sperm to ensure their genes are passed on) and are therefore more likely to want commitment from their partner in order to gain resources to improve their offspring's chance of survival.\n\nFantasies can have benefits, such as increasing arousal more than other forms of sexual stimuli (such as an erotic story) and increasing sexual desire. Individuals who disclose their sexual fantasies to their partners also have a higher sexual satisfaction. However, whether people are willing to open up to their partner generally depends on the content of such fantasies. A more negative effect of sexual fantasy is that it has been linked with sexual crimes, and indeed sexual offenders often report that they have had fantasies related to their offense. However, such fantasies are also common among those who have not been involved in such criminal acts and non-offenders do not use their fantasies to guide their behaviour. Therefore, fantasy alone cannot be used as a sign that someone will become an offender.\n\nNocturnal orgasms, or \"wet dreams\" are when men ejaculate during sleep. These occur during REM (rapid eye movement) phases of sleep, which is the main stage when humans dream. This implies that erotic dreams alone are enough to stimulate men, however erections accompany all REM phases. According to self-report data, as many as 22% of young women may also experience orgasm during sleep, with such dreams being more common in college students in higher school years than younger students. The orgasms experienced were positively correlated with high emotionality, including sexual excitement, but also anxiety.\n\nSexual role-play is when people act out characters or scenarios which may sexually stimulate each other. This can include fantasies (discussed above) and fetishes, such as BDSM (bondage and discipline, dominance and submission, sadism and masochism) or age-play. It has been described by some as an adult form of L.A.R.P (live action role-play). Role-play can also be carried out online, by typing stories to each other or pretending to be a character, and is therefore a form of mental stimulation you can engage in with another person without them being physically present. Many adolescents find online role-play pleasurable and arousing.\n\nRole-play can also include sexual fanfiction, where characters from well-known stories, that were not sexually or romantically together in the original story, are written into sexual scenes. Slash fiction is a type of fan fiction where the characters of the same sex (originally male-male) engage in romantic or sexual activities. Slash fiction allows people the freedom to share stimulating things that can be counter-cultural. However, there may still be copyright or obscenity laws if posted onto a public forum or published.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39127888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39127888", "title": "Seychelles Medical and Dental Association", "text": "Seychelles Medical and Dental Association\n\nSeychelles Medical and Dental Association (SMDA) is a registered body consisting of the doctors and dentists working in the Republic of Seychelles. Unlike the Seychelles Medical and Dental Council which has been formed by a law, the Medical Practitioners and Dentists Act, 1994, and which regulates the medical and dental profession, the Seychelles Medical and Dental Association focuses more on the career and socio-professional interests of doctors and dentists in Seychelles. In reality, it is a trade union for the doctors and dentists. Any doctor or dentist in Seychelles can become a member upon payment of the prescribed membership fees. Membership waxes and wanes and waxes and wanes again from year to year.\n\nSince its formation, around 1993, the Seychelles Medical and Dental Association has been at the forefront of all negotiations with the Government to improve the working and living conditions of doctors and dentists in Seychelles. One of its former Chairman, Dr Patrick Herminie, is now the Speaker of the National Assembly of Seychelles.\n\nThe Seychelles Medical and Dental Association owns the Seychelles Medical and Dental Journal. Although the Journal has not been published for several years now, previous editions have featured seminal articles on ground-breaking research in Seychelles. Efforts are underway to revive the journal.\n\nSee Seychelles Medical and Dental Council.\n\nReferences\n"}
{"id": "12694612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12694612", "title": "South African National Department of Health", "text": "South African National Department of Health\n\nThe Department of Health is the executive department of the South African government that is assigned to health matters. \n\nThe Office for Health Standards and Compliance was established in 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "50462183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50462183", "title": "Swain Family School of Science and Mathematics", "text": "Swain Family School of Science and Mathematics\n\nThe Swain Family School of Science and Mathematics is one of the five schools comprising The Citadel, The Military College of South Carolina in Charleston, South Carolina. The school offers Bachelor's and Master's Degrees in a variety of fields, as well as minors and certificates. It was established in 2002 as The Citadel reorganized its existing departments into the five schools. On June 1, 2018, The Citadel announced the naming of the school for the Swain Family, in recognition of major gifts provided by brothers David C. Swain, Jr., Class of 1980, and his wife Mary, as well as Dr. Christopher C. Swain, Class of 1981, and his wife Debora.\n\nFive academic departments compose the school, including Biology; Chemistry; Mathematics and Computer Science; Health, Exercise, and Sports Sciences; and Physics. The school is headquartered in Grimsley Hall along with the Physics Department, but the Departments are spread among several buildings on campus, including Thompson Hall (Mathematics and Computer Science), Byrd Hall (Chemistry), Duckett Hall (Biology), and Deas Hall (Health, Exercise, and Sports Sciences).\n\nThe School is home to a graduate certificate in cyber security, which combined with the School of Humanities and Social Sciences programs focusing on homeland security and intelligence analysis, have earned recognition from the National Security Agency, as the program has been designated a Center of Academic Excellence in Cyber Defense.\n\nIn cooperation with the Zucker Family School of Education and School of Engineering, the school in 2009 established and supports The Citadel's STEM Center for Excellence, to prepare students for STEM careers through a variety of programs, including the \"Storm the Citadel\" Engineering week, summer camps, and scholarships.\n\nIn 2013, the National Science Foundation awarded $1.2 million for scholarships in teaching science and mathematics at the secondary level, which are jointly awarded by the School of Science and Mathematics and the Zucker Family School of Education to undergraduate and graduate students.\n\nIn January 2017, the school will launch a nursing program, offered to evening undergraduates (2+2 program for those with an associate's degree) as well as the South Carolina Corps of Cadets. Funded by a $4 million anonymous donation, the program is intended to address the need both in the armed services and the Charleston area for qualified nurses.\n"}
{"id": "2279900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279900", "title": "Testamentary capacity", "text": "Testamentary capacity\n\nIn the common law tradition, testamentary capacity is the legal term of art used to describe a person's legal and mental ability to make or alter a valid will. This concept has also been called sound mind and memory or disposing mind and memory.\n\nAdults are presumed to have the ability to make a will. Litigation about testamentary capacity typically revolves around charges that the testator, by virtue of senility, dementia, insanity, or other unsoundness of mind, lacked the mental capacity to make a will. In essence, the doctrine requires those who would challenge a validly executed will to demonstrate that the testator did not know the consequence of his or her conduct when he or she executed the will. \n\nCertain people, such as minors, are usually deemed to be conclusively incapable of making a will by the common law; however, minors who serve in the military are conceded the right to make a will by statute in many jurisdictions. In South Africa, however, one acquires testamentary capacity at the age of 16 years.\n\nThe requirements for testamentary capacity are minimal. Some courts have held that a person who lacked the capacity to make a contract can nevertheless make a valid will. While the wording of statutes or judicial rulings will vary from one jurisdiction to another, the test generally requires that the testator was aware of:\n\nThe legal test implies that a typical claimant in a will contest is a disgruntled heir who believes he or she should have received a larger share than they did under the will. Once the challenging party meets the burden of proof that the testator did not possess the capacity, the burden subsequently shifts to the party propounding the will to show by clear and convincing evidence that the testator did have the requisite capacity.\n\nThose who contest a will for lack of testamentary capacity must typically show that the decedent suffered from mental unsoundness that left them unable to remember family members or caused them to hold insane delusions about them. Dead Man's Statutes sometimes restrict evidence which can be admitted concerning transactions with the decedent. \n\nThe best known or most authoritative text on the common law test for capacity is the judgment of Martin Nourse QC (who was then sitting as a deputy judge of the High Court and later became a Lord Justice of Appeal)in\" Re Beaney\", deceased \nWhen someone gives away a substantial proportion of their assets, the general rule is that they must have the same degree of capacity as is required for a will.\n\"The degree or extent of understanding required in respect of any instrument is relative to the particular transaction which it is to effect. In the case of a will the degree required is always high. In the case of a contract, a deed made for consideration or a gift inter vivos, whether by deed or otherwise, the degree required varies with the circumstances of the transaction. Thus, at one extreme, if the subject-matter and value of a gift are trivial in relation to the donor's other assets a low degree of understanding will suffice. But, at the other, if its effect is to dispose of the donor's only asset of value and thus for practical purposes to pre-empt the devolution of his estate under his will or on his intestacy, then the degree of understanding required is as high as that required for a will, and the donor must understand the claims of all potential donees and the extent of the property to be disposed of.\"\n\nLawyers for people whose testamentary capacity might be called into question often arrange for a will execution to be video taped. On video, they ask the testator about his property and about his family, and go over the contents of the testator's will.\n\nAlong with resolving an examinee's testamentary capacity, a forensic specialist observes for signs of undue influence by a concerned party that exploits an emotionally vulnerable individual who might otherwise be cognitively intact. The testamentary capacity matter is most frequently raised posthumously, when an aggrieved heir contests the will entered into probate. For this reason, the forensic psychiatrist or forensic psychologist studies the testatrix’ cognition through videotape record of the drafting of the will, or by reviewing email, letters and other records. \n\nEven when a testator are found to have lacked testamentary capacity due to senility, loss of memory due to the aging process, infirmity or insanity, courts will sometimes rule that the testator had a \"temporary period of lucidity\" or a \"lucid moment\" at the time of the execution of the testamentary instrument. Such finding will validate a will that would otherwise be denied probate.\n\nA way to forestall a will contest would be to have a self-proving will, in which an affidavit of the witnesses to the will specifically swear or affirm that the will was prepared under the supervision of an attorney.\n\nThe presumption of capacity\nWhere a will is rational, professionally drawn, seemingly regular in form and is made by a person whose capacity is not in doubt, there is a presumption that the will is valid. This presumption can be rebutted by a challenger to the will showing that there is a real doubt about capacity. At this point the burden of proving capacity moves to the propounder of the will to then show that there was testamentary capacity at the time the will was executed. \n\nTestamentary capacity\nTestamentary capacity is the mental capacity required to make a valid will. The current test comes from the decision in Banks v Goodfellow (1870). This case concerned the validity of the will of John Banks. In modern terms he would most likely be described as a paranoid schizophrenic. He suffered from delusions that he was being persecuted by devils (they were sometimes visible to him) and also by a deceased local grocer. His will was challenged on the basis that he was insane and therefore unable to make a will. The will was found to be valid after trial by jury, before Brett J, at Cumberland Spring Assizes in 1869. On appeal, this judgment was confirmed unanimously by a panel of four appeal judges in Queen's Bench. The will was found to be valid, not influenced by his delusions, and deemed rational, being in favour of his only close relative (who also lived with him). \nIn a strong and eloquent judgment, Cockburn CJ set out the following test of the capacity to make a valid will, which still applied in many Anglophone jurisdictions today:\n“It is essential to the exercise of such a power that a testator shall understand the nature of the act and its effects; shall understand the extent of the property of which he is disposing; shall be able to comprehend and appreciate the claims to which he ought to give effect; and, with a view to the latter object, that no disorder of the mind shall poison his affections, pervert his sense of right, or prevent the exercise of his natural faculties—that no insane delusion shall influence his will in disposing of his property and bring about a disposal of it which, if the mind had been sound, would not have been made.” \nThis remains the test today, notwithstanding the Mental Capacity Act 2005.\nIt is now considered as being composed of four distinct elements and that understanding is required of\n[1] the nature of the act of making a will and its effect\n[2] the extent of the property that is to be disposed of\n[3] the claims of family or friendship to which he ought to give effect\nand as a separate element \n[4] that no disorder of the mind shall poison his affections, pervert his sense of right, or prevent the exercise of his natural faculties—that no insane delusion shall influence his will in disposing of his property and bring about a disposal of it which, if the mind had been sound, would not have been made.\nIn addition, the original wording, [1], [2] and [3] are all approached as not requiring actual understanding, but instead being capable of understanding .\nAs this is a common law test created by judges, it is capable of being modified by judges, as they see fit in the light of modern circumstances. Modern psychiatric knowledge has allowed the test to be developed by having a further element added and that is for the testator to be capable of exercising his decision-making powers. \nThis test is focussed on the ability of the particular individual and his particular estate. The outcome is always unique to the particular facts. Where the circumstances and assets of a testator are simple or straightforward the level of capacity required will be lower than that for the testator with complex circumstances and assets. \n\nA court administered test\nThe test in Banks v Goodfellow has proved to be long lasting as it was not a definition in medical terms, but a plain English definition of what a person should be capable of understanding in order to make a will. The test is still applied by a court. A medical opinion, while being potentially valuable evidence, is not determinative of capacity unless accepted as such by the court. The evidence of the will draftsman has considerable value to the court, if he has carried out his work to an acceptable standard. \n\nThe test for wills distinguished from other tests of capacity\nThe test in Banks v Goodfellow is expressly designed for the capability of a person to make a will. It is not therefore a test that has an application to any other transactions, save one – the capacity to make substantial lifetime gifts. The leading English decision in this area is Re Beaney (deceased) where it was said:\n“In the circumstances, it seems to me that the law is this. The degree or extent of understanding required in respect of any instrument is relative to the particular transaction which it is to effect. In the case of a will the degree required is always high. In the case of a contract, a deed made for consideration or a gift inter vivos, whether by deed or otherwise, the degree required varies with the circumstances of the transaction. Thus, at one extreme, if the subject matter and value of a gift are trivial in relation to the donor’s other assets a low degree of understanding will suffice. But, at the other extreme, if its effect is to dispose of the donor’s only asset of value and thus, for practical purposes, to pre-empt the devolution of his estate under his will or on his intestacy, then the degree of understanding required is as high as that required for a will, and the donor understands the claims of all potential donees and the extent of the property to be disposed of.”\n\nThe test in a modern context\nThe increasing longevity of individuals means that there is a greater chance of any person losing the capacity to make a will in their old age as a result of dementia. Indeed, dementia is the commonest reason for a will to be challenged, although any mental disorder may cause loss of capacity. This presents a major issue for the will draftsman who is not only required to have a knowledge of the legal test of capacity, but also of what its implications are, in order to record his relevant observations of the testator and form an opinion of his client's capacity. This, coupled with much greater prominence of negligence claims against will draftsmen, means that a careful understanding of what the draftsman should be doing becomes vital.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11657118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11657118", "title": "The Fitness Show", "text": "The Fitness Show\n\nThe Fitness Show is an educational television program, hosted by Colin Hoobler. The series, filmed in Portland, Oregon. is the first medically based fitness program to apply science to exercise. This is in the likeness of the series’ producers’ Emmy Award-winning program Bill Nye the Science Guy.\n\nLike Bill Nye, Hoobler hosts the program as part motivator and part science teacher. Sensors and 3-D image-capturing technology show viewers in real time what goes on underneath the skin during exercise.\n\nAs a licensed physical therapist with two master's degrees, Hoobler’s methods have been taught through the American Physical Therapy Association. Both medical doctors and physical therapists make guest appearances on The Fitness Show. Techniques demonstrated in episodes combine elements of anatomy, neuroscience, physics and sports medicine. The educational content is intended to help viewers save time, avoid invasive medical treatments and reduce chronic pain.\n\nThe following is a list of topics covered in the series:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2123234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123234", "title": "Torsion dystonia", "text": "Torsion dystonia\n\nTorsion dystonia, also known as dystonia musculorum deformans, is a disease characterized by painful muscle contractions resulting in uncontrollable distortions. This specific type of dystonia is frequently found in children, with symptoms starting around the ages of 11 or 12. It commonly begins with contractions in one general area such as an arm or a leg that continue to progress throughout the rest of the body. It takes roughly 5 years for the symptoms to completely progress to a debilitating state.\n\nThe disease is caused by a genetic disorder which results in a defect in a protein called Torsin A. A mutation in the DYT1 gene causes the loss of an amino acid, glutamic acid, in the Torsin A protein. Torsin A is an evolutionarily conserved AAA+ ATPase. The defective protein creates a disruption in communication in neurons that control muscle movement and muscle control. This mutation is most usually inherited from a parent, but can occur sporadically. The disease is caused by a dominant allele, meaning that the person affected needs only one copy of the mutated DYT1 gene to have symptoms. However, only 30 to 40 percent of those that do have the gene actually have symptoms, leading researchers to believe that there are other factors involved.\n\nThere are several types of torsion dystonia that affect different areas of the body. However, it is unknown if the gene that causes Early Onset Torsion Dystonia is responsible for the other dystonias as well.\n\n\nThere is no cure for torsion dystonia. However, there are several medical approaches that can be taken in order to lessen the symptoms of the disease. The treatment must be patient specific, taking into consideration all of the previous and current health complications. The doctor that creates the treatment must have intimate knowledge of the patients’ health and create a treatment plan that covers all of the symptoms focusing on the most chronic areas.\n\nThe first step for most with the disorder begins with some form of physical therapy in order for the patient to gain more control over the affected areas. The therapy can help patients with their posture and gain control over the areas of their body that they have the most problems with.\n\nThe second step in the treatment process is medication. The medications focus on the chemicals released by neurotransmitters in the nervous system, which control muscle movement. The medications on the market today are anticholinergics, benzodiazepines, baclofen, dopaminergic agents/dopamine-depleting agents, and tetrabenazine. Each medication is started on a low dosage and gradually increased to higher doses as the disease progresses and the side effects are known for the individual.\n\nA more site-specific treatment is the injection of botulinum toxin. It is injected directly into the muscle and works much the same way the oral medications do—by blocking neurotransmitters. The injections are not a treatment for the disease, but are a means to control its symptoms. \nA fourth option in the treatment for the symptoms of torsion dystonia is surgery. Surgery is performed only if the patient does not respond to the oral medications or the injections. The type of surgery performed is specific to the type of dystonia that the patient has.\n\nThe disease is more commonly found amongst Ashkenazi Jews. The occurrence of torsion dystonia in the Ashkenazi Jewish population as stated by the Department of Epidemiology and Public Health of Yale University School of Medicine in New Haven, CT; \"Reports dating to the beginning of this century describe Ashkenazi Jewish (AJ) families with multiple cases of ITD either in siblings (Schwalbe 1908; Bernstein 1912; Abrahamson 1920) or in parents and offspring (Wechsler and Brock 1922; Mankowsky and Czerny 1929; Regensberg 1930). The first comprehensive evaluation of the mode of inheritance of ITD in Jewish and non-Jewish families was described by Zeman and Dyken (1967), who concluded that the disorder was inherited as an autosomal dominant with incomplete penetrance in both populations. Although they concluded that the gene frequency was higher in the AJ population than in non-Jews, no difference in mode of inheritance or disease mechanism was construed.\"\n\nA 1969 study of torsion dystonia patients found an average IQ 10 points higher than controls matched for age, sex and ethnic background.\n"}
{"id": "11343855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11343855", "title": "Treatment Improvement Protocols", "text": "Treatment Improvement Protocols\n\nTreatment Improvement Protocols (TIPs) are a series of best-practice manuals for the treatment of substance use and other related disorders. The TIP series is published by the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA ), an operational division of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS ).\n\nSAMHSA convenes panels of clinical, research, and administrative experts to produce the content of TIPs, which are distributed to public and private substance abuse treatment facilities and individuals throughout the United States and its territories. TIPs deal with all aspects of substance abuse treatment, from intake procedures to screening and assessment to various treatment methodologies and referral to other avenues of care. TIPs also deal with administrative and programmatic issues such as funding, inter-agency collaboration, training, accreditation, and workforce development. Some TIPs also cover ancillary topics that tend to be associated with substance abuse treatment, such as co-occurring mental health problems, criminal justice issues, housing, and primary care. Once the content of a TIP has been finalized and approved by SAMHSA, the publications are printed through the U.S. Government Printing Office (GPO ).\n\nAs of November 2017, 60 TIPs have been published. Most are available through SAMHSA's 'store' (). SAMHSA also makes newer TIPs available for download in Portable Document Format (PDF), or accessible online through the National Library of Medicine (NLM ). Although TIPs frequently show up on internet auction sites and through used book sellers for varying costs, they are intended to be available for free to the public. SAMHSA does not charge for them.\n\nTIP 1: State Methadone Treatment Guidelines (\"replaced by TIP 43\")\nTIP 2: Pregnant, Substance-Using Women (\"replaced by TIP 51\")\nTIP 3: Screening and Assessment of Alcohol- and Other Drug-Abusing Adolescents (\"replaced by TIP 31\")\nTIP 4: Guidelines for the Treatment of Alcohol- and Other Drug-Abusing Adolescents (\"replaced by TIP 32\")\nTIP 5: Improving Treatment for Drug-Exposed Infants \nTIP 6: Screening for Infectious Diseases Among Substance Abusers \nTIP 7: Screening and Assessment for Alcohol and Other Drug Abuse Among Adults in the Criminal Justice System (\"replaced by TIP 44\")\nTIP 8: Intensive Outpatient Treatment for Alcohol and Other Drug Abuse (\"replaced by TIPs 46 and 47\")\nTIP 9: Assessment and Treatment of Patients with Coexisting Mental Illness and Alcohol and Other Drug Abuse\nTIP 10: Assessment and Treatment Planning for Cocaine-Abusing Methadone-Maintained Patients\nTIP 11: Simple Screening Instruments for Outreach for Alcohol and Other Drug Abuse and Infectious Diseases \nTIP 12: Combining Substance Abuse Treatment with Intermediate Sanctions for Adults in the Criminal Justice System (\"replaced by TIP 44\")\nTIP 13: Role and Current Status of Patient Placement Criteria in the Treatment of Substance Use Disorders \nTIP 14: Developing State Outcomes Monitoring Systems for Alcohol and Other Drug Abuse Treatment \nTIP 15: Treatment for HIV-Infected Alcohol and Other Drug Abusers (\"replaced by TIP 37\")\nTIP 16: Alcohol and Other Drug Screening of Hospitalized Trauma Patients \nTIP 17: Planning for Alcohol and Other Drug Abuse Treatment for Adults in the Criminal Justice System (\"replaced by TIP 44\")\nTIP 18: The Tuberculosis Epidemic: Legal and Ethical Issues for Alcohol and Other Drug Treatment Providers \nTIP 19: Detoxification From Alcohol and Other Drugs (\"replaced by TIP 45\")\nTIP 20: Matching Treatment to Patient Needs in Opioid Substitution Therapy (\"replaced by TIP 43\")\nTIP 21: Combining Alcohol and Other Drug Abuse Treatment With Diversion for Juveniles in the Justice System \nTIP 22: LAAM in the Treatment of Opiate Addiction (\"replaced by TIP 43\")\nTIP 23: Treatment Drug Courts: Integrating Substance Abuse Treatment With Legal Case Processing \nTIP 24: A Guide to Substance Abuse Services for Primary Care Clinicians \nTIP 25: Substance Abuse Treatment and Domestic Violence \nTIP 26: Substance Abuse Among Older Adults \nTIP 27: Comprehensive Case Management for Substance Abuse Treatment \nTIP 28: Naltrexone and Alcoholism Treatment\nTIP 29: Substance Use Disorder Treatment For People With Physical and Cognitive Disabilities \nTIP 30: Continuity of Offender Treatment for Substance Use Disorders from Institution to Community \nTIP 31: Screening and Assessing Adolescents for Substance Use Disorders \nTIP 32: Treatment of Adolescents with Substance Use Disorders \nTIP 33: Treatment for Stimulant Use Disorders \nTIP 34: Brief Interventions and Brief Therapies for Substance Abuse \nTIP 35: Enhancing Motivation for Change in Substance Abuse Treatment \nTIP 36: Substance Abuse Treatment for Persons with Child Abuse and Neglect Issues \nTIP 37: Substance Abuse Treatment for Persons with HIV/AIDS \nTIP 38: Integrating Substance Abuse Treatment and Vocational Services \nTIP 39: Substance Abuse Treatment and Family Therapy \nTIP 40: Clinical Guidelines for the Use of Buprenorphine in the Treatment of Opioid Addiction \nTIP 41: Substance Abuse Treatment: Group Therapy \nTIP 42: Substance Abuse Treatment for Persons With Co-Occurring Disorders \nTIP 43: Medication-Assisted Treatment for Opioid Addiction in Opioid Treatment Programs \nTIP 44: Substance Abuse Treatment for Adults in the Criminal Justice System \nTIP 45: Detoxification and Substance Abuse Treatment \nTIP 46: Substance Abuse: Administrative Issues in Outpatient Treatment \nTIP 47: Substance Abuse: Clinical Issues in Intensive Outpatient Treatment \nTIP 48: Managing Depressive Symptoms in Substance Abuse Clients During Early Recovery \nTIP 49: Incorporating Alcohol Pharmacotherapies Into Medical Practice \nTIP 50: Addressing Suicidal Thoughts and Behaviors in Substance Abuse Treatment \nTIP 51: Substance Abuse Treatment: Addressing the Specific Needs of Women \nTIP 52: Clinical Supervision and Professional Development of the Substance Abuse Counselor \nTIP 53: Addressing Viral Hepatitis in People With Substance Use Disorders \nTIP 54: Managing Chronic Pain in Adults With or in Recovery From Substance Use Disorders \nTIP 55: Behavioral Health Services for People Who Are Homeless \nTIP 56: Addressing the Specific Behavioral Health Needs of Men \nTIP 57: Trauma-Informed Care in Behavioral Health Services \nTIP 58: Addressing Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorders (FASD) \nTIP 59: Improving Cultural Competence \nTIP 60: Using Technology-Based Therapeutic Tools in Behavioral Health Services \n\n"}
{"id": "46685420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46685420", "title": "Tunisian bread riots", "text": "Tunisian bread riots\n\nThe Tunisian bread riots (, ) were a series of violent demonstrations in Tunisia in December 1983 – January 1984 triggered by a rise in the price of bread due to an IMF-imposed austerity program. President Habib Bourguiba declared a state of emergency and the riots were put down by force. Over 100 rioters were killed. The regime was weakened by the upheavals and their aftermath. Three years later General Zine El Abidine Ben Ali seized power in a coup.\n\nIn 1983 the European economy had been stagnant for some years. \nThis had affected Tunisia since its economy relied on exports to Europe and tourists from Europe.\nThe government was struggling to meet rising expenses when a fall in the price of oil towards the end of 1983 further reduced revenue.\nPresident Bourguiba agreed to seek a loan from the International Monetary Fund (IMF).\nThe IMF loan was conditional on government spending cuts, removal of exchange controls, elimination of protective tariffs and devaluation of the currency.\n\nThe government decided to end subsidies on wheat and semolina, the main ingredients of bread.\nAt the time food subsidies accounted for 3.1% of gross domestic product and 10% of the state budget.\nThe subsidies favored the wealthy as much as the poor.\nThe decision was announced on 29 December 1983, and led to an immediate rise in the price of bread and flour.\nPrices went up by over 100%.\nThe increase, the first in fifteen years, directly affected the poor.\nSome Tunisian families spent 80% of their food budget on bread and semolina.\n\nThe subsidies were removed at a time of growing political tension. Leftist parties were becoming more popular, as were the Islamist movements, while members of the political elite were jostling for position in anticipation of the aging president's death or resignation.\nThe southern region had been suffering from a drought, which caused a poor harvest. Many of the men in this region traditionally left to work in the coastal towns of Tunisia or as migrant laborers in Libya, and were having difficulty finding work.\nOpen political opposition to the government had recently been expressed in the south, which the government blamed on \"foreign-inspired agitators\", pointing the finger at Libyans and Lebanese.\n\nThe first riots were on Thursday 29 December 1983 in the semi-desert region of Nefzaoua in the south.\nRiots began in the poverty-stricken and marginalized oases of this region.\nAlthough the price rise was the trigger, underlying causes were growing social and economic difficulties.\nThere was speculation that the disturbances were in part fueled by grievances among Islamist groups.\nMost of the rioters were young and poor, including farmers, seasonal workers and the unemployed.\nWomen supported the rioters, and in some cases participated,\nThus in the small southern town of Al-Mabrouka a group of women workers in a textile factory marched into the town chanting slogans against the price rise.\nThey were joined by men, students and even children, and the mob went on to storm the police station, party headquarters, town hall and National Guard headquarters. Security forces fired on the protesters, killing several people.\nThe riots spread to the industrial center of Kasserine by Sunday, and to Gafsa and Gabès by Monday.\nOn Tuesday 3 January 1984 a state of emergency was declared after the unrest had spread to Tunis and Sfax.\n\nThe rioters were supported by students, who went on strike in solidarity.\nThe demonstrators roamed the streets yelling anti-government slogans and attacking symbols of power, encouraged by onlookers in the windows and on rooftops. \nThe rioters looted and burned shops, destroyed street signs, attacked cars and buses and attacked public buildings.\nLocal observers of the riots said the protesters showed \"rage\" or \"hatred\" against the rich as well as the authorities. \nThey attacked shops that sold luxury goods, rampaged through wealthy neighborhoods and set fire to luxury cars. \nThere was a feeling that the elite were wealthy only because of their political connections. \nThey took the wealth of the country and spent it on imported goods, contributing little if anything to the country.\nIslamist slogans included \"There is but one God and Bourghiba is the enemy of God.\"\n\nA dusk-to-dawn curfew was imposed, all schools were closed and public gatherings of over three people were banned.\nBus service was suspended and shops and cafes closed.\nSoldiers and riot police were deployed in the streets and at crossroads.\nThe rioters hurled rocks at policemen, who responded with tear gas.\nIn Tunis \"Barricades went up everywhere. Again and again, troops opened fire on the crowds with automatic weapons. Tanks and armored personnel carriers rumbled through the streets, often firing on anything that moved. Many protestors were killed, and many more wounded, including women and children.\"\nThe army even used helicopters against the protesters. They had restored order by 5 January 1984.\nBy the time the protests ended more than 150 of the rioters had been killed.\n\nPresident Bourguiba announced on 6 January 1983 that the increase in the price of bread and flour had been cancelled.\nHe gave the impression that Prime Minister Mohammed Mzali had not been authorized to raise prices.\nThe clumsy handling of the price rise damaged the position of Mzali, who had been seen as the probable successor to Bourguiba.\nThe prime minister temporarily assumed the post of Minister of the Interior.\nIn an attempt to recover his popularity Mzali toured the provinces after the riots, promising projects to create new jobs.\nHowever Mzali said, \"the first lesson to be drawn from the events of January was that it is necessary to reorganise the forces of order so that they can respond adequately to all situations.\"\n\nRelations with Libya soured after the riots, with the Tunisian government implying that Libya had been involved in stirring up the trouble. \nLibya denied having been involved.\nAs the price of oil continued to drop, thousands of workers from Libya and other oil states returned to Tunisia, further weakening the economy.\nBourguiba dismissed the Minister of the Interior, Driss Guiga, who took the blame for the way the disturbances had been handled.\nGuida was later accused of corruption and treason.\nBourguiba also dismissed the ministers who had supported the IMF loan.\n\nThe government was convinced that the Islamic Tendency Movement (\"Mouvement de la Tendence Islamique\", MTI) had been behind the riots, and arrested many of its supporters. The MTI leaders had encouraged their followers to join in the riots, but the government produced no proof that they had organized them. The persecution of the MTI enhanced its reputation as an organization committed to helping the people.\nAs part of a clamp-down on the opposition, General Zine El Abidine Ben Ali was reappointed director-general of national security. \nSoon after Ben Ali was made minister of the interior.\nThe 1984 riots set the stage for the constitutional coup staged by Ben Ali in 1987.\n\n"}
{"id": "10135518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10135518", "title": "UCLA School of Nursing", "text": "UCLA School of Nursing\n\nThe UCLA School of Nursing is a nursing school affiliated with UCLA, and is located in the Westwood neighborhood of Los Angeles, California. The school is in the Factor Building on the UCLA campus, adjacent to the Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center.\n\n"}
{"id": "55009686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55009686", "title": "University Hospital \"Shefqet Ndroqi\"", "text": "University Hospital \"Shefqet Ndroqi\"\n\nThe University Hospital \"Shefqet Ndroqi\" is a tuberculosis sanatorium established in Fuat Bey Hill, Tirana in 1945. The hospital has more than 100 beds and various room types and facilities.\n\n\nSU \"Shefqet Ndroqi\" (Official website)\n"}
{"id": "11574382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11574382", "title": "William Charles Ellis", "text": "William Charles Ellis\n\nSir William Charles Ellis (10 March 1780 – 24 October 1839) was the superintendent of the West Riding Pauper Lunatic Asylum.\n\nHe was born in Alford, Lincolnshire. His early career was as an apothecary but he soon took an interest in the treatment of mental disorders. This he learnt at the Sculcoates Refuge in Hull; which was run on a similar model as the York Retreat.\n\nIn 1817 a William Ellis was appointed as superintendent to the newly built West Riding Pauper Lunatic Asylum at Wakefield. \nA Methodist, he too had strong religious convictions and so with his wife as matron he employed the same principles of humane treatment and moral therapy as practised at Sculcoates Refuge.\nAfter 13 years their reputation had become such, that they were then invited to run the newly built first pauper asylum in Middlesex called the Hanwell Asylum. Accepting the posts, the asylum opened in May 1831. Here the Ellis's introduced their own flavour of 'humane treatment' and moral therapy combined with 'therapeutic employment'. The approach he used went down well with patients, it was always voluntary, it made them feel valued and appreciated, it enabled them to recover their self-esteem. Also, by having something with real 'purpose' to do that helped with the care of others or help with the running of the asylum, not only occupy their time but also took the minds off their troubles and suicides became extremely rare. By preserving their everyday life skills in this way he made it easier for his patients to pick up their lives again when they were well enough to leave, which now came sooner because these methods speeded recovery. Ellis became famous in his own lifetime for his pioneering work and his adherence to this 'Great Principle of Therapeutic Employment' and was rewarded with a knighthood.\n\nIt may be helpful to point out here that those records that appear to show poorer recovery rates than achieved today, are total patient counts. As the new asylum system grew so the number of those admitted that were always deemed 'incurable' and were quite different from the 'lunatic insane' which is what these institutions for were originally built for. The greater part of these new classes of patients were the elderly, sent by the workhouses as being ill and very close to death. Also, before the introduction of antibiotics there were other incurables such as those with tertiary syphilis and gonorrhea that came in. Towards the end of the nineteenth century, greater numbers of people suffering from epilepsy were also getting admitted. All this had the effect of considerably slewing some of the modern accounts critical of the effectiveness of these early establishments, even though there survives a great mass of comprehensive and detailed records from this period.\n\nEllis resigned his post at Hanwell in 1838. This came about because the visiting Justices wished to expand the capacity of the asylum again. Also, for such an institution which was wholly funded by a levy on the local rates, it was becoming of the utmost importance, in the opinion of the visiting justices, that that best use be made of the assets and money spent, and that there were records and statistics to demonstrate that this was indeed being achieved. However, this required an organisational change in the way and in the detail that the asylum was managed and run.\n\nWilliam and his wife Mildred enjoyed being involved with all aspects of patient care and oversight of staff in order to create a 'domestic' or homely environment (or as is being reinvented today as Nidotherapy).\n\nAs Ellis stated that same year:\nThese intended changes made it impossible for the two of them to continue to do what their heart felt conviction demanded.\n\nHe and Lady Ellis then set up their own private asylum for a few ladies and gentlemen of the upper social classes, quite nearby, in the grounds of Southall Park; this being the former residence of Lord Montford.\n\nAlas, Ellis was a very large man and plagued throughout his life by ill health. This no doubt lead to his untimely death from dropsy just as short while later on 24 October 1839.\n\nBenjamin Lambden (age 19), was indicted of stealing one sheep on 30 November 1838. Valued at 25 shillings (₤1 – 25p) which, it was said belonged to William Ellis of Southall Park. He was found guilty and sentenced to be Transported for ten years.\n\n"}
