{"id": "5300126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5300126", "title": "1929 Australian timber workers' strike", "text": "1929 Australian timber workers' strike\n\nThe 1929 Timber Workers strike was a labour dispute in Australia caused by Judge Lukin of the Arbitration Court handing down an industrial award decision on 23 December 1928 to reduce the wages and increase the hours for 20,000 timber workers from a 44-hour week to a 48-hour week. It was the first strike in Australia after the onset of the Great Depression.\n\nAn initial response by workers at mass meetings on 3 January in Melbourne, Sydney and Adelaide was to refuse to work the four hours extra stipulated by the Lukin award. This then precipitated the employers applying to the court that a strike existed. The penalties of the Arbitration Amendment Act, enacted in 1928, were then invoked. The urban nature of timber mills meant that industrial action was concentrated around the working class areas of the affected cities, notably Glebe in Sydney. The dispute widened with carters and crane drivers striking in solidarity. A special conference of the Australian Council of Trade Unions (ACTU) on 7 February 1929 agreed to extend the strike to a general movement; to boycott the Federal Industrial Court; and for the conduct of the strike to be managed by the ACTU Disputes Committee.\n\nOn 25 February, Justice Lukin ordered a secret ballot of the timber workers in Victoria and New South Wales. This was the first attempt to enforce a secret ballot in an industrial dispute. On 1 March Lukin imposed a fine of 1000 on the Timber Workers Union, followed by a fine of 50 on Jack Holloway, Secretary of Melbourne Trades Hall Council. A protest meeting outside the Sydney Trades Hall on 25 March was attended by 25,000 trade unionists. At this meeting 3000 strikers publicly burnt their ballot papers. The crowd then marched to Hyde Park where an effigy of Justice Lukin was burnt. On an interesting aside, Judge Lukin was the first judge of the Supreme Court of the ACT.\n\nThe secret ballot was largely boycotted by the workers. When the votes that were cast were counted they were 5000 to 7000 against acceptance of the award in New South Wales and Victoria.\n\nWomen's involvement in trade unions and their direct participation in industrial action has been the subject of growing interest for labour historians and industrial relations scholars. Some research has also concentrated on women's indirect participation to paid work. However just as this field of investigation has made inroads into the study of labour history, some have advised a return to ‘traditional’ concerns of institutional labour history. The following article takes up this debate through an investigation of the 1929 strike in the timber industry. It suggests that hitherto unexplored aspects of mobilisation may be more fully appreciated by analysing those closely associated with strikers and their unions. Specifically it emphasises the role of community and gender relations. Women played a particularly active role in the dispute holding weekly meetings, attending picket lines and collecting money. Several women were prosecuted and sent to gaol for collecting money for the strikers. There was considerable community and union support mobilised for the strikers, which enabled them to survive on strike for so long.\n\nAfter five months the strike came to an end on 24 June on the basis of a 48-hour week, but with an independent inquiry to be appointed into the financial condition of the industry. At the end of July seven union leaders, including Jock Garden, the Secretary of the Trades and Labor Council; John Culbert, the Secretary of the Timber Workers Union; and the Chairman of the ACTU Disputes Committee were charged with \"unlawful conspiracy by violence and threats of violence\" to prevent timber workers from working. A jury subsequently acquitted all those charged.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "36291244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36291244", "title": "2012 North American heat wave", "text": "2012 North American heat wave\n\nThe Summer 2012 North American heat wave was one of the most severe heat waves in modern North American history. It resulted in more than 82 heat-related deaths across the United States and Canada, and an additional twenty-two lives were lost in the resultant June 2012 North American derecho. This long-lived, straight-line wind and its thunderstorms cut electrical power to 3.7 million customers. Over 500,000 were still without power on July 6, as the heat wave continued. Temperatures generally decreased somewhat the week of July 9 in the east, but the high pressure shifted to the west, causing the core of the hot weather to the build in the Mountain States and the southwest U.S. shifting eastwards again by mid-July. By early August, the core of the heat remained over the Southern Plains.\n\nThe heat wave formed when high pressure aloft over the Baja of Mexico strengthened and moved over the southern plains around June 20–23 and then spread east and northward, remaining fixed over the center of North America through July 2012.\n\nThe direct cause of the heat is that, under high pressure, the air subsides (sinks) toward the surface. This sinking air acts as a dome capping the atmosphere. This cap helps to trap heat instead of allowing it to lift. Without the lift there is little or no convection and therefore little or no convective clouds (cumulus clouds) with minimal chances for rain. The end result is a continual build-up of heat at the surface resulting in drought conditions over wide areas.\n\nThis heat wave, like all extreme weather events, has its direct cause in a complex set of atmospheric conditions that produce short-term weather. However, weather occurs within the broader context of the climate, and many scientists agree that global warming has made it more likely that heat waves of this magnitude will occur. A NASA-sponsored study indicates an increase in the drying tendency from spring to summer over the U.S. Central Plains, especially during the transition from June to July. The intensified deficit in precipitation is accompanied by increased downward shortwave radiation flux, tropospheric subsidence, enhanced evaporative fraction, and elevated planetary boundary layer height, all of which can lead to surface drying. These conditions are similar to those accompanying the 2012 drought and intense heat that occurred in mid-summer.\n\nThe intense heat wave in the West was initiated around June 20–23 when the high pressure system centered over the Baja of California shifted upward into the plains and caused temperatures to approach or even surpass 110 degrees for the next several days, breaking many records for the area.\n\nThe heat spread east from the Rocky Mountains and a massive high-pressure system over the Midwest caused extreme temperatures not seen on such a scale since the 1930s. On June 25, 2012, Denver, Colorado tied its all-time high with a temperature of 105 °F (40.5 °C). On the same day a couple of 113 °F (45 °C) readings were recorded in Kansas. The heat was so strong that Alamosa, Colorado broke their daily records for six consecutive days. In Galveston, Texas, the earliest 100 °F (38 °C) day ever was recorded. Hill City, Kansas was the warmest point in the United States on June 26, with the thermometer climbing to 115 °F (46.1 °C).\n\nThousands of records were again broken on June 28. Fort Wayne, Indiana tied its all-time record high with 106 °F (41.1 °C) while Indianapolis broke its monthly record at 104 °F (40 °C). More monthly records that day included St. Louis, Missouri at 108 °F (42.2 °C) and Little Rock, Arkansas at 107 °F (41.7 °C). The heat resulted in two boys from Bradley County, Tennessee dying of hyperthermia.\n\nIn the Mid South, from June 28 through June 30, many notable temperature extremes occurred. In Paducah, Kentucky, June 29 witnessed an all time official record of . In Bowling Green, Kentucky, the same day witnessed , one degree short of the state's all-time record for June. Perhaps more remarkable, Tennessee observed a handful of all-time record highs. Nashville reached 109 °F (42.77 °C) on June 30, eleven degrees higher than the previous record. Knoxville reached a high of , while Chattanooga reached , an all-time high, on both June 30 and July 1. And, although not officially verified by the National Weather Service at this time, Smyrna, Tennessee recorded a reading of on the 29th, which would in fact be the highest recorded temperature in the state.\n\nIn Fort Good Hope, Northwest Territories, there was a streak of five consecutive days above 30 °C (86 °F) from June 21 to June 25 peaking at 35 °C (95 °F), quite possibly the longest heat wave in Canada at that time. Further south, on June 19, 20 and 21, Toronto experienced its first official early season heat wave (In Canada, a heat wave is defined as three or more consecutive days with temperatures at or above 90 °F (32 °C)), with temperatures ranging between 92.1 °F (33.4 °C) and 94.1 °F (34.5 °C) and the minimum temperature on June 20 not dropping below 75.9 °F (24.4 °C). On both July 4 and July 6, Toronto reached 36.3 °C (97.3 °F) and on July 17, the city hit 36.8 °C (98.3 °F), making this the hottest day of the year in the city and the 5th record daily high of the summer.\n\nThe high pressure ridge continued to slide eastward and centered itself over Tennessee, causing hundreds of records to be matched or surpassed for multiple states, including Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Georgia, North Carolina, and Washington D.C., among others.\n\nThe scorching heat continued on June 29 when Athens, Georgia and Columbia, South Carolina set new all-time record high temperatures of 109 °F. Washington, D.C. recorded its highest June temperature ever at 104 °F (40 °C), and Charlotte, North Carolina and Raleigh, North Carolina were warm enough to tie their all-time record highs at 104 °F (40 °C) and 105 °F (40.6 °C) respectively. On June 30, Atlanta, Georgia set a new all-time record high temperature of 106 °F.\n\nThe Mid-Atlantic States did not escape the heat. On June 29, Salisbury, Maryland recorded a monthly record high of , while Baltimore (DMH) reached on June 29, setting a similar month of June record.\n\nWhile still affecting the Southeastern and Great Plains regions of the U.S., the heat wave continued to spread northward into the New England area around July 7 and 8, leading to temperatures surpassing 90 °F.\n\nChicago's O'Hare International Airport tied its all-time 4th of July record of 102 °F (38.9 °C) which was set back in 1912. Not far from O'Hare, the official measuring station for the city of Chicago, the villages of Park Ridge, Niles, Norridge as well as much of the Chicago metropolitan area recorded a temperature of 104 °F (40 °C). Some places north of Chicago got even hotter. Caledonia, Wisconsin, just south of Milwaukee reached 107 °F. Actual air temperatures were close to 110 °F in and around the city of Allegan, Michigan. St. Louis endured a string of ten straight days with temperatures above 100 °F, ending on July 7. As of July 7, three deaths in St. Louis were attributed to the heat.\n\nAs of July 6, Chicago has had four official or higher temperature readings, one on June 28, along with three in July, culminating with an official near-record shattering high of at O'Hare on both July 5 and 6, reaching near Chicago, the following day reaching 98 °F shortly before 11 AM at O'Hare International Airport, but much of the Chicago metro area west and south of the airport reached or exceeded 100 degrees, marking the fourth consecutive day of 100-degree heat across the Chicago area. The city proper tied the old record of three consecutive 100-degree days which was set back in August 1947. Normally, the highest temperature recorded in a typical Chicago summer is around , a streak of 3 days above constitutes a \"heat wave\", and the thermometer reaches or surpasses only once every five to ten years. The Chicago temperatures exceeded the 1995 Chicago heat wave, which claimed over 750 lives, although humidity and registered dew points were higher during that heat wave. Through the first five days of July, the mean temperature in Chicago averaged , above normal, the hottest since 1911. Two deaths are confirmed so far from the heat in Cook County, and two other lives were lost in a train derailment blamed on the heat. An additional death in Rock County, Wisconsin has been noted.\n\nThe heat caused highways to buckle in Illinois, North Carolina and Wisconsin.\n\nAfter a brief respite from the extreme heat, the Mid-Atlantic States resumed observation of record highs by the end of the first week of July. Maryland has been particularly hard-hit, with eight deaths so far, including four on July 5. Cumberland, Maryland recorded a monthly record of on July 8. Bremo Bluff, Virginia recorded an astounding , which is an all-time-record high on July 8.\n\nThe Northeastern United States suffered the worst of the heat wave on July 7–8. Even normally cool plateau regions experienced highs over 90 °F. Laurel Mountain, Pennsylvania, near Johnstown, reached on July 8, beating the previous all-time-record high by 2 °F (1 °C). Similarly, on July 7, daily record highs were broken in several cities in eastern Pennsylvania, including Harrisburg, Lancaster, and Chambersburg, which each reached . Pittsburgh reached 98° on July 7, which, while not a daily record (101° in 1988), was the hottest temperature recorded there since it reached 100° on July 15, 1995. Cleveland, Ohio reached 101 °F on July 21. Akron-Canton airport said that it was its warmest year on record with an all time July record of 101 °F on July 7th. \nOn July 8, the heat eased across the east as the high pressure center shifted west, causing hot weather once again build in the mountain states and the southwest U. S.\n\nAfter some modification in the heat during the past week over the midwest and northeast, the jet once again moved further north into Canada allowing intense heat to build across eastern North America. On July 15, Temperatures reached in Pierre, South Dakota.\n\nOn July 17, the temperature at Detroit, Michigan Metro Airport climbed to , the third plus 100 degree day thus far in July. The average July maximum temperature is .\n\nThe Northeastern states also experienced a second round of heat, with temps again returning to the 90's. Atlantic City, New Jersey reached on July 18, a daily record high. The same day, Newark, New Jersey reached , a daily record. Teterboro Airport, NJ recorded a monthly record high of . Philadelphia, PA hit a temperature of . Triple-digit temperatures even reached Hartford, Connecticut, where, on July 18, the city reached , which was a monthly record high.\n\nAs of July 25, St. Louis, Missouri endured its 16th straight day of plus heat with 27 of the past 28 days exceeding this temperature, with high 90s forecast over the next few days. 24 deaths have been attributed to the heat in St. Louis metro area.\n\nAs of August 13, 90 to 100-degree plus heat was still occurring in the desert Southwest and in many western states, associated with the same upper-level ridge of high pressure. The heat wave continued at one location or another within the Contiguous US for over two months' worth of consecutive days. A major jet stream dip and associated upper-level trough of low pressure brought rain, storms, and cooler weather to parts of the eastern and central US, slightly lessening drought impacts in some areas.\n\nWildfires raged across the western United States during the time of the heat wave, in part attributable to the dry conditions caused by the heat. The Waldo Canyon fire in Colorado attracted the most attention after spreading into Colorado Springs and charring hundreds of homes (investigators determined it to be human caused, rather than from \"the heat\"), but large wildfires also burned throughout Utah, Wyoming, Montana, New Mexico, Arizona and Idaho.\n\nThe heat wave also contributed to the record-shattering 2012 North American drought, which caused massive crop failures throughout the Midwest. The drought affected 80% of the contiguous US as of July 24, and was considered the worst drought since the 1950s but not yet on the scale of devastation endured during the dust bowl of the 1930s.\n\nOn July 26, 2012, the heat wave contributed to the formation of a multi-bow serial derecho in the Midwest and Northeast.\n\nOn June 29–30, 2012, the heat and humidity from the heat wave caused a small thunderstorm in Iowa to develop into a violent and unprecedented derecho, which tracked across the Midwest and Mid-Atlantic regions of the United States while causing 80 MPH or higher winds, doing hundreds of millions of dollars in damage, and downing trees and power lines, leaving four million people in the eastern U. S. without power.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17135616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17135616", "title": "Air classifier", "text": "Air classifier\n\nAn air classifier is an industrial machine which separates materials by a combination of size, shape, and density.\n\nIt works by injecting the material stream to be sorted into a chamber which contains a column of rising air. Inside the separation chamber, air drag on the objects supplies an upward force which counteracts the force of gravity and lifts the material to be sorted up into the air. Due to the dependence of air drag on object size and shape, the objects in the moving air column are sorted vertically and can be separated in this manner.\n\nAir classifiers are commonly employed in industrial processes where a large volume of mixed materials with differing physical characteristics need to be separated quickly and efficiently. One such example is in recycling centers, where various types of metal, paper, and plastics arrive mixed together and need to be sorted before further processing can take place.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24751822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24751822", "title": "Ali Asghar Soltanieh", "text": "Ali Asghar Soltanieh\n\nAli Asghar Soltanieh (, born 1 October 1950) was Iran's ambassador to the International Atomic Energy Agency in Vienna. He served the position from 1982 to 1987 and for a second term in 2006 until 2013.\n\nSoltanieh was born in Tehran on 1 October 1950. He studied at Utah State University in the United States.\n\nSoltanieh is a nuclear physicist by training and worked as associate professor at faculties of science and international relations in various universities between 1988 and 1997. He taught courses in nuclear physics.\n\nIn the 1990s he was involved, as a nuclear physicist and senior diplomat, in the capacity of special envoy, delegate, chief negotiator, and invited speaker in numerous international events on disarmament and international security, such as NPT, CWC, BWC, CTBT, CCW, and has worked closely with the relevant international scientific and technical organizations such as UN, IAEA, OPCW, and other specialized international organizations such as WHO, ILO, Inter-Parliamentary Union (IPU), QIC, WMO, TWAS and ICDO. He has published several papers in aforementioned areas.\n\nFor the three years immediately prior to taking up his position as the Iran's envoy to the International Atomic Energy Agency in Vienna, Soltanieh was the head of Iran's National Escort Team for IAEA Inspections; a member of delegation to the IAEA board of governors and general conference; and a member of the negotiating team, Iran-EU3/EU negotiation on nuclear energy.\n\nOn 27 August 2013, it was reported that Reza Najafi replaced Soltanieh as the Iran's ambassador to the International Atomic Energy Agency in Vienna.\n\nSoltanieh is married and has three children.\n"}
{"id": "4402513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4402513", "title": "Ammonium uranyl carbonate", "text": "Ammonium uranyl carbonate\n\nAmmonium uranyl carbonate (UOCO·2(NH)CO) is known in the uranium processing industry as AUC and is also called uranyl ammonium carbonate. This compound is important as a component in the conversion process of uranium hexafluoride (UF) to uranium dioxide (UO). The ammonium uranyl carbonate is combined with steam and hydrogen at 500–600 °C to yield UO. In another process aqueous uranyl nitrate, known as uranyl nitrate liquor (UNL) is treated with ammonium bicarbonate to form ammonium uranyl carbonate as a solid precipitate. This is separated from the solution, dried with methanol and then calcinated with hydrogen directly to UO to obtain a sinterable grade powder. The ex-AUC uranium dioxide powder is free-flowing, relatively coarse (10 µ) and porous with specific surface area in the range of 5 m/g and suitable for direct pelletisation, avoiding the granulation step. Conversion to UO is often performed as the first stage of nuclear fuel fabrication.\n\nThe AUC process is followed in South Korea and Argentina. In the AUC route, calcination, reduction and stabilization are simultaneously carried out in a vertical fluidized bed reactor. In most countries, sinterable grade UO powder for nuclear fuel is obtained by the ammonium diuranate (ADU) process, which requires several more steps.\n\nAmmonium uranyl carbonate is also one of the many forms called yellowcake; in this case it is the product obtained by the heap leach process.\n\n"}
{"id": "40765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40765", "title": "Back-to-back connection", "text": "Back-to-back connection\n\nA back-to-back connection is the direct connection of the output of one device to the input of a similar or related device.\n\nIn telecommunications, a back-to-back connection can be formed by connecting a transmitter directly to a receiver without a transmission line in between. This is used for equipment measurements and testing purposes. The back-to-back connection eliminates the effects of the transmission medium.\n\nIn some cases, the output of a receiving device is instead connected to the input of a transmitting device.\n\nA back-to-back connection for electric power transmission is a high-voltage direct-current (HVDC) system with both ends in the same switchyard. This is used to couple asynchronously operated power grids or for connecting power grids of different frequencies where no DC transmission line is necessary.\n\nIn electronics, a back-to-back connection is the connection of two identical or similar components in series with the opposite polarity. This is used to convert polarised components to non-polar use. Common examples include:\n"}
{"id": "827611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=827611", "title": "Castle Bravo", "text": "Castle Bravo\n\nCastle Bravo was the first in a series of high-yield thermonuclear weapon design tests conducted by the United States at Bikini Atoll, Marshall Islands, as part of \"Operation Castle\". Detonated on March 1, 1954, the device was the most powerful nuclear device detonated by the United States and its first lithium deuteride fueled thermonuclear weapon. Castle Bravo's yield was 15 megatons of TNT, 2.5 times the predicted 6.0 megatons, due to unforeseen additional reactions involving Li, which led to the unexpected radioactive contamination of areas to the east of Bikini Atoll.\n\nFallout from the detonation fell on residents of Rongelap and Utirik atolls and spread around the world. The inhabitants of the islands were not evacuated until three days later and suffered radiation sickness. Twenty-three crew members of the Japanese fishing vessel \"Daigo Fukuryū Maru\" (\"Lucky Dragon No. 5\") were also contaminated by fallout, experiencing acute radiation syndrome. The blast incited international reaction over atmospheric thermonuclear testing.\n\nThe Bravo Crater is located at . The remains of the Castle Bravo causeway are at .\n\nThe \"Castle Bravo\" device was housed in a cylinder that weighed and measured in length and in diameter.\n\nThe primary device was a \"COBRA\" Deuterium-Tritium gas-boosted atomic bomb made by Los Alamos Scientific Laboratory, a very compact MK 7 device. This boosted fission device was tested in the \"Upshot Knothole\" \"Climax\" event and yielded (out of 50–70 kt expected yield range), successful enough that the planned operation series \"Domino\", designed to explore the same question about a suitable primary for thermonuclear bombs, could be cancelled. The implosion system was quite lightweight at , because it eliminated the aluminum pusher shell around the tamper and used the more compact ring lenses, a design feature shared with the Mark 5, 12, 13 and 18 designs. The explosive material of the inner charges (I.C. for short) in the MK 7 was changed to the more powerful Cyclotol 75/25, instead of the Composition B used in most stockpiled bombs at that time, as Cyclotol 75/25 was denser than Composition B and thus could generate the same amount of explosive force in a smaller volume (it actually provided 13 percent more compressive energy than Comp B). The composite uranium-plutonium \"COBRA\" core was levitated in a type-D pit. \"COBRA\" was Los Alamos' most recent product of design work on the very important \"new principles\" of the hollow core. A copper pit liner encased within the weapon-grade plutonium inner capsule prevented DT gas diffusion in plutonium, a technique first tested in \"Greenhouse Item\". The assembled module weighed , measuring across. It was located at the end of the device, which, as seen in the declassified film, shows a small cone projecting from the ballistic case. This cone is the part of the paraboloid that was used to focus the radiation emanating from the primary to the secondary.\n\nThe device was called SHRIMP and had the same basic configuration (radiation implosion) as the \"Ivy Mike\" wet device, except with a different type of fusion fuel. \"SHRIMP\" used lithium deuteride (LiD), which is solid at room temperature; \"Ivy Mike\" used cryogenic liquid deuterium (D), which required elaborate cooling equipment. \"Castle Bravo\" was the first test by the United States of a practical deliverable fusion bomb, even though the TX-21 as proof-tested in the Bravo event was not weaponized. The successful test rendered obsolete the cryogenic design used by \"Ivy Mike\" and its weaponized derivative, the \"JUGHEAD\", which was slated to be tested as the initial \"Castle Yankee\". It also used a 7075 aluminum 9.5 cm thick ballistic case. Aluminum was used to drastically reduce bomb's weight and simultaneously provided sufficient radiation confinement time to raise yield, a departure from the heavy stainless steel casing (304L or MIM 316L) employed by contemporary weapon-projects.\n\nThe \"SHRIMP\" was at least in theory and in many critical aspects identical in geometry to the \"RUNT\" and \"RUNT II\" devices later proof-fired in \"Castle Romeo\" and \"Castle Yankee\" respectively. On paper it was a scaled-down version of these devices, and its origins can be traced back to the spring and summer of 1953. The United States Air Force indicated the importance of lighter thermonuclear weapons for delivery by the B-47 Stratojet and B-58 Hustler. Los Alamos National Laboratory responded to this indication with a follow-up enriched version of the \"RUNT\" scaled down to a 3/4 scale radiation-implosion system called the \"SHRIMP\". The proposed weight reduction (from TX-17's to TX-21's ) would provide the Air Force with a much more versatile deliverable gravity bomb. The final version tested in \"Castle\" used partially enriched lithium as its fusion fuel. Natural lithium is a mixture of lithium-6 and lithium-7 isotopes (with 7.5% of the former). The enriched lithium used in \"Bravo\" was nominally 40% lithium-6 (the balance was the much more common lithium-7, which was incorrectly assumed to be inert). The fuel slugs varied in enrichment from 37 to 40% in Li, and the slugs with lower enrichment were positioned at the end of the fusion-fuel chamber, away from the primary. The lower levels of lithium enrichment in the fuel slugs, compared with the \"ALARM CLOCK\" and many later hydrogen weapons, were due to shortages in enriched lithium at that time, as the first of the \"Alloy Development Plants\" (ADP) started production by the fall of 1953. The volume of LiD fuel used was approximately 60% the volume of the fusion fuel filling used in the wet \"SAUSAGE\" and dry \"RUNT I\" and \"II\" devices, or about , corresponding to about 400 kg of lithium deuteride (as LiD has a density of 0.78201 g/cm). The mixture cost about 4.54 USD/g at that time. The fusion burn efficiency was close to 25.1%, the highest attained efficiency of the first thermonuclear weapon generation. This efficiency is well within the figures given in a November 1956 statement, when a DOD official disclosed that thermonuclear devices with efficiencies ranging from 15% to up about 40% had been tested. Hans Bethe reportedly stated independently that the first generation of thermonuclear weapons had (fusion) efficiencies varying from as low as 15% to up about 25%.\n\nThe thermonuclear burn would produce (like the fission fuel in the primary) pulsations (generations) of high-energy neutrons with an average temperature of 14 MeV through Jetter's cycle. The cycle is a combination of endothermic and exothermic neutronic reactions involving lithium and deuterium/tritium. The reaction's neutronicity was estimated at ~0.885 (for a Lawson criterion of ~1.5). These figures do not count the Li isotope, where the LiD has a neutronicity of ~0.835 and, along with the cross-sections, were given as group averages from about 2.40 to approximately 2.55 MeV and from 14.0 to 14.1 MeV; the small power group is not statistically present (see also Nuclear fusion).\n\nAs \"SHRIMP\", along with the \"RUNT I\" and \"ALARM CLOCK\" were to be high-yield shots required to assure the thermonuclear “emergency capability”, their fusion fuel may have been spiked with additional tritium, in the form of LiT. All of the high-energy 14 MeV neutrons would cause fission in the uranium fusion tamper wrapped around the secondary and the spark plug's plutonium rod. The ratio of deuterium (and tritium) atoms burned by 14 MeV neutrons spawned by the burning was expected to vary from 5:1 to 3:1, a standardization derived from \"Mike\", while for these estimations, the ratio of 3:1 was predominantly used in ISRINEX. The neutronicity of the fusion reactions harnessed by the fusion tamper would dramatically increase the yield of the device.\n\nAttached to the cylindrical ballistic case was a natural-uranium liner, the radiation case, that was about 2.5 cm thick. Its internal surface was lined (glued) with a copper liner that was about 240 μm thick, and made from 0.08-μm thick copper foil, to increase the overall albedo of the hohlraum. Copper possesses excellent reflecting properties, and its low cost, compared to other reflecting materials like gold, made it useful for mass-produced hydrogen weapons. Hohlraum albedo is a very important design parameter for any inertial-confinement configuration. A relatively high albedo permits higher interstage coupling due to the more favorable azimuthal and latitudinal angles of reflected radiation. The limiting value of the albedo for high-\"Z\" materials is reached when the thickness is 5–10 g/cm, or 0.5–1.0 free paths. Thus, a hohlraum made of uranium much thicker than a free path of uranium would be needlessly heavy and costly. At the same time, the angular anisotropy increases as the atomic number of the scatterer material is reduced. Thus hohlraum liners require the use of copper (or, as in other devices, gold or aluminum), as the absorption probability increases with the value of \"Z\" of the scatterer. There are two sources of X-rays in the hohlraum: the primary's irradiance, which is dominant at the beginning and during the \"pulse\" rise; and the wall, which is important during the required radiation temperature's (\"T\") plateau. The primary emits radiation in a manner similar to a flash bulb, and the secondary needs constant \"T\" to properly implode. This constant wall temperature is dictated by the ablation pressure requirements to drive compression, which lie on average at about 0.4 keV (out of a range of 0.2 to 2 keV), corresponding to several million kelvins. Wall temperature depended on the temperature of the primary's core which peaked at about 5.4 keV during boosted-fission. The final wall-temperature, which corresponds to energy of the wall-reradiated X-rays to the secondary's pusher, also drops due to losses from the hohlraum material itself. Natural uranium nails, lined to the top of their head with copper, attached the radiation case to the ballistic case. The nails were bolted in vertical arrays in a double-shear configuration to better distribute the shear loads. This method of attaching the radiation case to the ballistic case was first used successfully in the Ivy \"Mike\" device. The radiation case had a parabolic end, which housed the \"COBRA\" primary that was employed to create the conditions needed to start the fusion reaction, and its other end was a cylinder, as also seen in Bravo's declassified film.\n\nThe space between the uranium \"fusion tamper\", and the case formed a radiation channel to conduct X-rays from the primary to the secondary assembly; the interstage. It is one of the most closely guarded secrets of a multistage thermonuclear weapon. Implosion of the secondary assembly is indirectly driven, and the techniques used in the interstage to smooth the spatial profile (i.e. reduce coherence and nonuniformities) of the primary's irradiance are of utmost importance. This was done with the introduction of the \"channel filler\" – an optical element used as a refractive medium, also encountered as \"random-phase plate\" in the ICF laser assemblies. This medium was a polystyrene plastic foam filling, extruded or impregnated with a low-molecular-weight hydrocarbon (possibly methane gas), which turned to a low-\"Z\" plasma from the X-rays, and along with channeling radiation it modulated the ablation front on the high-Z surfaces; it \"tamped\" the sputtering effect that would otherwise \"choke\" radiation from compressing the secondary. The reemitted X-rays from the radiation case must be deposited uniformly on the outer walls of the secondary’s tamper and ablate it externally, driving the thermonuclear fuel capsule (increasing the density and temperature of the fusion fuel) to the point needed to sustain a thermonuclear reaction. (see Nuclear weapon design). This point is above the threshold where the fusion fuel would turn opaque to its emitting radiation, as determined from its Rosseland opacity, meaning that the generated energy balances the energy lost to fuel's vicinity (as radiation, particle losses). After all, for any hydrogen weapon system to work, this energy equilibrium must be maintained through the compression equilibrium between the fusion tamper and the spark plug (see below), hence their name \"equilibrium supers\".\n\nSince the ablative process takes place on both walls of the radiation channel, a numerical estimate made with ISRINEX (a thermonuclear explosion simulation program) suggested that the uranium tamper also had a thickness of 2.5 cm, so that an equal pressure would be applied to both walls of the hohlraum. The rocket effect on the surface of tamper's wall created by the ablation of its several superficial layers would force an equal mass of uranium that rested in the remainder of the tamper to speed inwards, thus imploding the thermonuclear core. At the same time, the rocket effect on the surface of the hohlraum would force the radiation case to speed outwards. The ballistic case would confine the exploding radiation case for as long as necessary. The fact that the tamper material was uranium enriched in U is primarily based on the final fission reaction fragments detected in the radiochemical analysis, which conclusively showed the presence of U, found by the Japanese in the shot debris. The first-generation thermonuclear weapons (MK-14, 16, 17, 21, 22 and 24) all used uranium tampers enriched to 37.5% U. The exception to this was the MK-15 \"ZOMBIE\" that used a 93.5% enriched fission jacket.\n\nThe secondary assembly was the actual \"SHRIMP\" component of the weapon. The weapon, like most contemporary thermonuclear weapons at that time, bore the same codename as the secondary component. The secondary was situated in the cylindrical end of the device, where its end was locked to the radiation case by a type of mortise and tenon joint. The hohlraum at its cylindrical end had an internal projection, which nested the secondary and had better structural strength to support the secondary's assembly, which had most of the device's mass. A visualization to this is that the joint looked much like a cap (the secondary) fitted in a cone (the projection of the radiation case). Any other major supporting structure would interfere to radiation transfer from the primary to the secondary and complex vibrational behavior. With this form of joint bearing most of the structural loads of the secondary, the latter and the hohlraum-ballistic case ensemble behaved as a single mass sharing common eigenmodes. To reduce excessive loading of the joint, especially during deployment of the weapon, the forward section of the secondary (i.e. the thermal blast/heat shield) was anchored to the radiation case by a set of thin wires, which also aligned the center line of the secondary the primary, as they diminished bending and torsional loads on the secondary, another technique adopted from the \"SAUSAGE\". The secondary assembly was an elongated truncated cone. From its front part (excluding the blast-heat shield) to its aft section it was steeply tapered. Tapering was used for two reasons. First, radiation drops by the square of the distance, hence radiation coupling is relatively poor in the aftermost sections of the secondary. This made the use of a higher mass of the then scarce fusion fuel in the rear end of the secondary assembly ineffective and the overall design wasteful. This was also the reason why the lower-enriched slugs of fusion fuel were placed far aft of the fuel capsule. Second, as the primary could not illuminate the whole surface of the hohlraum, in part due to the large axial length of the secondary, relatively small solid angles would be effective to compress the secondary, leading to poor radiation focusing. By tapering the secondary, the hohlraum could be shaped as a cylinder in its aft section obviating the need to machine the radiation case to a parabola at both ends. This optimized radiation focusing and enabled a streamlined production line, as it was cheaper, faster and easier to manufacture a radiation case with only one parabolic end. The tapering in this design was much steeper than its cousins, the \"RUNT\", and the \"ALARM CLOCK\" devices. \"SHRIMP's\" tapering and its mounting to the hohlraum apparently made the whole secondary assembly resemble the body of a shrimp. The secondary's length is defined by the two pairs of dark-colored diagnostic \"hot spot\" pipes attached to the middle and left section of the device. These pipe sections were in diameter and long and were butt-welded end-to-end to the ballistic case leading out to the top of the shot cab. They would carry the initial reaction's light up to the array of 12 mirror towers built in an arc on the artificial shot island created for the event. From those pipes, mirrors would reflect early bomb light from the bomb casing to a series of remote high-speed cameras, so that Los Alamos could determine both the simultaneity of the design (i.e. the time interval between primary's firing and secondary's ignition) and the thermonuclear burn rate in these two crucial areas of the secondary device.\n\nThis secondary assembly device contained the lithium deuteride fusion fuel in a stainless-steel canister. Running down to the center of the secondary was a 1.3 cm thick hollow cylindrical rod of plutonium, nested in the steel canister. This was the \"spark plug\", a tritium-boosted fission device. It was assembled by plutonium rings and had a hollow volume inside that measured about 0.5 cm in diameter. This central volume was lined with copper, which like the liner in the primary's fissile core prevented DT gas diffusion in plutonium. The spark plug's boosting charge contained about 4 grams of tritium and, imploding together with the secondary's compression, was timed to detonate by the first generations of neutrons that arrived from the primary. Timing was defined by the geometric characteristics of the sparkplug (its uncompressed annular radius), which detonated when its criticality, or \"k\", transcended 1. Its purpose was to compress the fusion material around it from its inside, equally applying pressure with the tamper. The compression factor of the fusion fuel and its adiabatic compression energy determined the minimal energy required for the spark plug to counteract the compression of the fusion fuel and the tamper's momentum. The spark plug weighed about 18 kg, and its initial firing yielded . Then it would be completely fissioned by the fusion neutrons, contributing about to the total yield. The energy required by the spark plug to counteract the compression of the fusion fuel was lower than the primary's yield because coupling of the primary’s energy in the hohlraum is accompanied by losses due to the difference between the X-ray fireball and the hohlraum temperatures. The neutrons entered the assembly by a small hole through the ~28 cm thick U blast-heat shield. It was positioned in front of the secondary assembly facing the primary. Similar to the tamper-fusion capsule assembly, the shield was shaped as a circular frustum, with its small diameter facing the primary's side, and with its large diameter locked by a type of mortise and tenon joint to the rest of the secondary assembly. The shield-tamper ensemble can be visualized as a circular bifrustum. All parts of the tamper were similarly locked together to provide structural support and rigidity to the secondary assembly. Surrounding the fusion-fuel–spark-plug assembly was the uranium tamper with a standoff air-gap about 0.9 cm wide that was to increase the tamper's momentum, a levitation technique used as early as \"Operation Sandstone\" and famously quoted by Ted Taylor as \"hammer-on-the-nail-impact\". Since there were also technical concerns that high-\"Z\" tamper material would mix rapidly with the relatively low-density fusion fuel, leading to unacceptably large radiation losses the stand-off gap also acted as a buffer to hinder to some extent the unavoidable and undesirable \"Taylor mixing\".\n\nBoron was used at many locations in this dry system; it has a high cross-section for the absorption of slow neutrons, which fission U and Pu, but a low cross-section for the absorption of fast neutrons, which fission U. Because of this characteristic, B deposited onto the surface of the secondary stage would prevent predetonation of the \"spark plug\" by stray neutrons from the primary without interfering with the subsequent fissioning of the U of the fusion tamper wrapping the secondary. Boron also played a role in increasing the compressive plasma pressure around the secondary by blocking the sputtering effect, leading to higher thermonuclear efficiency. Because the structural foam holding the secondary in place within the casing was doped with B, the secondary was compressed more highly, at a cost of some radiated neutrons. An example of the usefulness of B can be seen by the fact that the fizzled \"Castle Koon\" \"MORGENSTERN\" device didn't use it in its design. As a result, the intense neutron flux from its \"RACER IV\" primary predetonated the spherical fission spark plug, which in turn \"cooked\" the fusion fuel, leading to an overall poor compression. It should be noted, that the plastic's low molecular weight is unable to implode the secondary's mass. Its plasma-pressure is confined in the boiled-off sections of the tamper and the radiation case so that material from neither of these two \"walls\" can enter the radiation channel that has to be open for the radiation transit.\n\nThe device was mounted in a \"shot cab\" on an artificial island built on a reef off Namu Island, in the Bikini Atoll. A sizable array of diagnostic instruments was trained on it, including high-speed cameras trained through an arc of mirror towers around the shot cab.\n\nThe detonation took place at 06:45 on March 1, 1954, local time (18:45 on February 28 GMT).\nWhen Bravo was detonated, it formed a fireball almost across within a second. This fireball was visible on Kwajalein atoll over away. The explosion left a crater in diameter and in depth. The mushroom cloud reached a height of and a diameter of in about a minute, a height of and in diameter in less than 10 minutes and was expanding at more than . As a result of the blast, the cloud contaminated more than of the surrounding Pacific Ocean, including some of the surrounding small islands like Rongerik, Rongelap, and Utirik.\n\nIn terms of TNT equivalence, \"Castle Bravo\" was about 1,000 times more powerful than each of the atomic bombs that were dropped on Hiroshima and Nagasaki during World War II. \"Castle Bravo\" is the fifth largest nuclear explosion in history, exceeded by the Soviet tests of \"Tsar Bomba\" at approximately 50 Mt, \"Test 219\" at 24.2 Mt, and two other ~20 Mt Soviet tests in 1962 at Novaya Zemlya.\n\nThe yield of 15 megatons was 3 times that of the 5 Mt predicted by its designers. The cause of the higher yield was an error made by designers of the device at Los Alamos National Laboratory. They considered only the lithium-6 isotope in the lithium-deuteride secondary to be reactive; the lithium-7 isotope, accounting for 60% of the lithium content, was assumed to be inert. It was expected that the lithium-6 isotope would absorb a neutron from the fissioning plutonium and emit an alpha particle and tritium in the process, of which the latter would then fuse with the deuterium and increase the yield in a predicted manner. Lithium-6 indeed reacted in this manner.\n\nIt was assumed that the lithium-7 would absorb one neutron, producing lithium-8, which decays (through beryllium-8) to a pair of alpha particles on a timescale of seconds, vastly longer than the timescale of nuclear detonation. However, when lithium-7 is bombarded with energetic neutrons, rather than simply absorbing a neutron, it captures the neutron and decays almost instantly into an alpha particle, a tritium nucleus, and another neutron. As a result, much more tritium was produced than expected, the extra tritium fusing with deuterium and producing an extra neutron. The extra neutron produced by fusion and the extra neutron released directly by lithium-7 decay produced a much larger neutron flux. The result was greatly increased fissioning of the uranium tamper and increased yield.\n\nThis resultant extra fuel (both lithium-6 and lithium-7) contributed greatly to the fusion reactions and neutron production and in this manner greatly increased the device's explosive output. The test used lithium with a high percentage of lithium-7 only because lithium-6 was then scarce and expensive; the later \"Castle Union\" test used almost pure lithium-6. Had sufficient lithium-6 been available, the usability of the common lithium-7 might not have been discovered.\n\nThe unexpectedly high yield of the device severely damaged many of the permanent buildings on the control site island on the far side of the atoll. Little of the desired diagnostic data on the shot was collected; many instruments designed to transmit their data back before being destroyed by the blast were instead vaporized instantly, while most of the instruments that were expected to be recovered for data retrieval were destroyed by the blast.\n\nThe fission reactions of the natural uranium tamper were quite dirty, producing a large amount of fallout. That, combined with the much-larger-than-expected yield and a major wind shift, produced some very serious consequences. In the declassified film \"Operation Castle\", the task force commander Major General Percy Clarkson pointed to a diagram indicating that the wind shift was still in the range of \"acceptable fallout\", although just barely.\n\nThe decision to carry out the Bravo test under the prevailing winds was made by Dr. Alvin C. Graves, the Scientific Director of Operation Castle. Graves had total authority over detonating the weapon, above that of the military commander of Operation Castle. Graves appears in the widely available film of the earlier 1952 test \"Ivy Mike\", which examines the last-minute fallout decisions. The narrator, the western actor Reed Hadley, is filmed aboard the control ship in that film, showing the final conference. Hadley points out that 20,000 people live in the potential area of the fallout. He asks the control panel scientist if the test can be aborted and is told \"yes\", but it would ruin all their preparations in setting up timed measuring instruments. In Mike, the fallout correctly landed north of the inhabited area but, in the 1954 Bravo test, there was a large amount of wind shear, and the wind that was blowing north the day before the test steadily veered towards the east.\n\nRadioactive fallout was spread eastward onto the inhabited Rongelap and Rongerik atolls, which were evacuated 48 hours after the detonation. They were returned to the islands three years later but were removed again when their island was found to be unsafe. Ultimately, 15 islands and atolls were contaminated, and by 1963 Marshall Islands natives began to suffer from thyroid tumors, including 20 of 29 Rongelap children at the time of Bravo, and many birth defects were reported. The islanders received compensation from the U.S. government, relative to how much contamination they received, beginning in 1956; by 1995 the Nuclear Claims Tribunal reported that it had awarded $43.2 million, nearly its entire fund, to 1,196 claimants for 1,311 illnesses. A medical study, named Project 4.1, studied the effects of the fallout on the islanders.\n\nAlthough the atmospheric fallout plume drifted eastward, once fallout landed in the water it was carried in several directions by ocean currents, including northwest and southwest.\n\nA Japanese fishing boat, \"Daigo Fukuryū Maru\" (Lucky Dragon No.5), came in direct contact with the fallout, which caused many of the crew to grow ill; one died of a secondary infection. This resulted in an international incident and reignited Japanese concerns about radiation, especially as Japanese citizens were once more adversely affected by US nuclear weapons. The official US position had been that the growth in the strength of atomic bombs was not accompanied by an equivalent growth in radioactivity released. Japanese scientists who had collected data from the fishing vessel disagreed with this.\n\nSir Joseph Rotblat, working at St Bartholomew's Hospital, London, demonstrated that the contamination caused by the fallout from the test was far greater than that stated officially. Rotblat was able to deduce that the bomb had three stages and showed that the fission phase at the end of the explosion increased the amount of radioactivity a thousandfold. Rotblat's paper was taken up by the media, and the outcry in Japan reached such a level that diplomatic relations became strained and the incident was even dubbed by some as a \"second Hiroshima\". Nevertheless, the Japanese and US governments quickly reached a political settlement, with the transfer to Japan of $15.3 million as compensation, with the surviving victims receiving about 2 million each ($5,550 in 1954, or about $ in 2018). It was also agreed that the victims would not be given Hibakusha status.\n\nUnanticipated fallout and the radiation emitted by it also affected many of the vessels and personnel involved in the test, in some cases forcing them into bunkers for several hours. In contrast to the crew of the \"Lucky Dragon No. 5\", who did not anticipate the hazard and therefore did not take shelter in the hold of their ship, or refrain from inhaling the fallout dust, the firing crew that triggered the explosion was able to safely shelter in their firing station when they noticed the wind was carrying the fallout in the unanticipated direction towards the island of Enyu on the Bikini Atoll where they were located, with the fire crew sheltering in place (\"buttoning up\") for several hours until outside radiation decayed to safer levels. \"25 Roentgens per hour\" was recorded above the bunker.\n\nThe US Navy tanker was at Enewetak Atoll in late February 1954. \"Patapsco\" lacked a decontamination washdown system, and was therefore ordered on 27 February, to return to Pearl Harbor at the highest possible speed. A breakdown in her engine systems, namely a cracked cylinder liner, slowed \"Patapsco\" to one-third of her full speed, and when the Castle Bravo detonation took place, she was still about 180 to 195 nautical miles east of Bikini. \"Patapsco\" was in the range of nuclear fallout, which began landing on the ship in the mid-afternoon of 2 March. By this time \"Patapsco\" was 565 to 586 nautical miles from ground zero. The fallout was at first thought to be harmless and there were no radiation detectors aboard, so no decontamination measures were taken. Measurements taken after \"Patapsco\" had returned to Pearl Harbor suggested an exposure range of 0.18 to 0.62 R/hr. Total exposure estimates range from 3.3 R to 18 R of whole-body radiation, taking into account the effects of natural washdown from rain, and variations between above- and below-deck exposure.\n\nSixteen crew members of the aircraft carrier USS \"Bairoko\" received beta burns, and there was an increased cancer rate among its crew. Radioactive contamination also affected many of the testing facilities built on other islands of the Bikini atoll system.\n\nThe fallout spread traces of radioactive material as far as Australia, India and Japan, and even the United States and parts of Europe. Though organized as a secret test, Castle Bravo quickly became an international incident, prompting calls for a ban on the atmospheric testing of thermonuclear devices.\n\nA worldwide network of gummed film stations was established to monitor fallout following Operation Castle. Although meteorological data was poor, a general connection of tropospheric flow patterns with observed fallout was evident. There was a tendency for fallout/debris to remain in tropical latitudes, with incursions into the temperate regions associated with meteorological disturbances of the predominantly zonal flow. Outside of the tropics, the Southwestern United States received the greatest total fallout, about five times that received in Japan.\n\nStratospheric fallout particles of strontium-90 from the test were later captured with balloon-borne air filters used to sample the air at stratospheric altitudes, the research (Project Ashcan) was conducted to better understand the stratosphere, fallout times and arrive at more accurate meteorological models after hindcasting.\n\nThe fallout from \"Castle Bravo\" and other testing on the atoll also affected islanders who had previously inhabited the atoll, and who returned there some time after the tests. This was due to the presence of radioactive caesium-137 in locally grown coconut milk. Plants and trees absorb potassium as part of the normal biological process, but will also readily absorb caesium if present, being of the same group on the periodic table, and therefore very similar chemically. Islanders consuming contaminated coconut milk were found to have abnormally high concentrations of caesium in their bodies and so had to be evacuated from the atoll a second time.\n\nThe American magazine \"Consumer Reports\" warned of the contamination of milk with strontium-90.\n\nThe Soviet Union had previously used lithium deuteride in its Sloika design (known as the \"Joe-4\" in the U.S.), in 1953. It was not a true hydrogen bomb; fusion provided only 15–20% of its yield, most coming from boosted fission reactions. Its yield was 400 kilotons, and it could not be infinitely scaled, as with a true thermonuclear device.\n\nThe Teller–Ulam-based \"Ivy Mike\" device had a much greater yield of 10.4 Mt, but most of this also came from fission: 77% of the total came from fast fission of its natural-uranium tamper.\n\nCastle Bravo had the greatest yield of any U.S. nuclear test, 15 Mt, though again, a substantial fraction came from fission. In the Teller–Ulam design, the fission and fusion stages were kept physically separate in a reflective cavity. The radiation from the exploding fission primary brought the fuel in the fusion secondary to critical density and pressure, setting off thermonuclear (fusion) chain reactions, which in turn set off a tertiary fissioning of the bomb's U fusion tamper and casing. Consequently, this type of bomb is also known as a \"fission-fusion-fission\" device. The Soviet researchers, led by Andrei Sakharov, developed and tested their first Teller–Ulam device in 1955.\n\nThe publication of the Bravo fallout analysis was a militarily sensitive issue, with Joseph Rotblat possibly deducing the staging nature of the Castle Bravo device by studying the ratio and presence of tell-tale isotopes, namely uranium-237, present in the fallout. This information could potentially reveal the means by which megaton-yield nuclear devices achieve their yield. Soviet scientist Andrei Sakharov hit upon what the Soviet Union regarded as \"Sakharov's third idea\" during the month after the Castle Bravo test, the final piece of the puzzle being the idea that the compression of the secondary can be accomplished by the primary's X-rays before fusion began.\n\nThe Shrimp device design later evolved into the Mark 21 nuclear bomb, of which 275 units were produced, weighing and measuring long and in diameter. This 4-megaton bomb was produced until July 1956. In 1957, it was converted into the Mark 36 nuclear bomb and entered into production again.\n\nThe inhabitants of the Marshall Islands were impacted by the detonation of Castle Bravo. This single test exposed the surrounding populations to varying levels of radiation. The fallout levels attributed to the Castle Bravo test are the highest in history. Populations neighboring the test site were exposed to high levels of radiation resulting in mild radiation sickness of many (nausea, vomiting, diarrhea). Several weeks later, many people began suffering from alopecia (hair loss) and skin lesions as well.\n\nThe exposure to fallout has been linked to increase the likelihood of several types of cancer such as leukemia and thyroid cancer. The relationship between I-131 levels and thyroid cancer is still being researched. There are also correlations between fallout exposure levels and diseases such as thyroid disease like hypothyroidism. Populations of the Marshall Islands that received significant exposure to radionuclides have a much greater risk of developing cancer.\n\nThe female population of the Marshall Islands have a sixty times greater mortality rate from cervical cancer than a comparable mainland United States population. The Islands populations also have a five time greater likelihood of breast or gastrointestinal mortality, and lung cancer mortality is three times higher than the mainland population. The mortality rate of the male population on the Marshall Islands from lung cancer is four times greater than the overall United States rates, and the oral cancer rates are ten times greater.\n\nThere is a presumed association between radiation levels and female reproductive system functioning.\n\nThe 1957 novel \"On the Beach\" by Nevil Shute is about a nuclear war that released so much radioactive fallout that all the life in the Northern Hemisphere disappeared, while the Southern Hemisphere awaited a similar fate. However, the American government voiced a criticism of this premise—a threat of extinction from nuclear war—because they did not have enough nuclear weapons to cause human extinction.\n\nThe Castle Bravo detonation and the subsequent poisoning of the crew aboard Lucky Dragon 5 led to an increase in antinuclear protests in Japan. It was compared to the bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki and the Castle Bravo test was frequently part of the plots of numerous Japanese media, especially in relation to Japan's most widely recognized media icon, Godzilla. During the opening scene of the 2014 American \"Godzilla\" reboot and in the prequel comic \"Godzilla: Awakening\", the Castle Bravo nuclear test was an attempt to kill Godzilla and a prehistoric parasite called \"Shinomura\". Godzilla, however, survived the \"test\", despite humanity believing otherwise, while the Shinomura was incinerated.\n\nThe Donald Fagen song \"Memorabilia\" off his 2012 album \"Sunken Condos\" mentions both the Castle Bravo and Ivy King nuclear tests.\n\nIn 2013, the Defense Threat Reduction Agency released \"Castle Bravo: Fifty Years of Legend and Lore\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24530897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24530897", "title": "Charles Alexander Sheldon", "text": "Charles Alexander Sheldon\n\nCharles Alexander Sheldon (17 October 1867 – 21 September 1928) was a conservationist and the \"Father of Denali National Park\". He had a special interest in the bighorn sheep and spent time hunting with the Seri Indians in Sonora, Mexico, who knew him as \"Maricaana Caamla\" (American hunter). Another favorite haunt was the lakes and rivers which later became Kejimkujik National Park in Nova Scotia where Sheldon built a cabin at Beaverskin Lake.\n\nIn December 1905, Sheldon was elected member of the Boone and Crockett Club, a wildlife conservation organization founded by Theodore Roosevelt in 1887. The Sheldon National Wildlife Refuge in northwestern Nevada is named in Sheldon's honor.\n\n"}
{"id": "492448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=492448", "title": "Compass (architecture)", "text": "Compass (architecture)\n\nIn carpentry, architecture, and shipbuilding, a compass is a curved circular form. A compass plane is a plane that is convex, length-ways, on the underside, for smoothing the concave faces of curved woodwork. A compass saw is a narrow-bladed saw that cuts a curve. A compass timber is a curved (or crooked) timber, sometimes used in shipbuilding. A compass brick is a curved brick. A compass wall is a curved wall. A compass window is a circular bay window (or oriel window).\n\nA Surveyor's compass (or circumferentor) is a measuring instrument used in surveying horizontal angles.\n"}
{"id": "9890766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9890766", "title": "Compressed fluid", "text": "Compressed fluid\n\nA compressed fluid (also called a compressed or unsaturated liquid, subcooled fluid or liquid) is a fluid under mechanical or thermodynamic conditions that force it to be a liquid.\n\nAt a given pressure, a fluid is a compressed fluid if it is at a temperature lower than the saturation temperature. This is the case, for example, for liquid water at atmospheric pressure and room temperature. In a plot that compares pressure and specific volume (commonly called a p-v diagram), compressed fluid is the state to the left of the saturation curve.\n\nConditions that cause a fluid to be compressed include:\n\nThe term \"compressed liquid\" emphasizes that the pressure is greater than the saturation pressure for the given temperature. Compressed liquid properties are relatively independent of pressure.\n"}
{"id": "32703931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32703931", "title": "Cosmos Education", "text": "Cosmos Education\n\nCosmos Education is an NGO devoted to science and technology education in the developing world with a strong concentration on Africa.\nIt has also extended its efforts to Asia.\n\nKevin Hand, the founder (and president until 2007) named the organization as homage to Carl Sagan. Cosmos Education focuses on the development of and understanding of the science and technology of health and improving it through education. They also put their attention on the current developing countries of the world. Cosmos Education records that their main goal is to work for sustainability and development in the underdeveloped nations of the world.\n\nCosmos Education works on a grassroots foundation. They start by informing the students on an individual level. They wish to benefit the students so when they get older they will have the knowledge and understanding to make a difference. Cosmos Education runs educational activities in order to demonstrate their scientific ideas.\n\nThe partners that Cosmos Education is currently collaborating with includes the following:\n\n"}
{"id": "58766201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58766201", "title": "Diethynylbenzene dianion", "text": "Diethynylbenzene dianion\n\nDiethynylbenzene dianion describes two deprotonated ethynyl anions attached to a benzene molecule. Depending on , there are three possible isomers:\nThese are the top three strongest known bases. The base was created in mass spectroscopy experiments by researchers in Australia. The isomers where the ethynyl groups are closer together are the stronger bases.\nThey are created by creating the corresponding phenylenedipropiolate dianions then removing the four oxygen atoms and two carbon atoms at the ends (as two neutral carbon dioxide molecules).\n"}
{"id": "57206613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57206613", "title": "Economic optimization of electric conductors", "text": "Economic optimization of electric conductors\n\nEconomic optimization of electric conductors (also known as economic cable sizing - ECS) is the process of selecting cable based on both safety and economic analysis.\nThe objective of ECS is to minimise lifetime costs of cables and to reduce emissions due to loses in cables.\n\nFour criteria are typically used for cable selection:\n\nUntil recently, energy costs were sufficiently low that the ongoing cable losses were not significant. \nHowever, there are two recent effects that have changed this situation:\n\nThere are two primary lifetime costs associated with power cables:\n\nThe total lifetime cost is the sum of the costs, all of which are related to cable size. \nThe objective of economic cable sizing is to find the lowest overall total cost while maintaining safety standards.\nThere are several approaches to this which are all based upon these fundamental principles. The following standards cover the economics sizing of cables:\n\nIn New South Wales, Australia it is permissible to use the calculated energy savings that are due to implementing ECS in BASIX (Building Sustainability Index) applications. Each ECS based application is assessed on a case by case basis.\n"}
{"id": "9975133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9975133", "title": "Electricidade de Moçambique", "text": "Electricidade de Moçambique\n\nElectricidade de Moçambique is an energy company of Mozambique, which deals with the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity.\n\n"}
{"id": "9942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9942", "title": "Erwin Schrödinger", "text": "Erwin Schrödinger\n\nErwin Rudolf Josef Alexander Schrödinger (, ; ; 12 August 1887 – 4 January 1961), sometimes written as ' or ', was a Nobel Prize-winning Austrian physicist who developed a number of fundamental results in the field of quantum theory, which formed the basis of wave mechanics: he formulated the wave equation (stationary and time-dependent Schrödinger equation) and revealed the identity of his development of the formalism and matrix mechanics. Schrödinger proposed an original interpretation of the physical meaning of the wave function.\n\nIn addition, he was the author of many works in various fields of physics: statistical mechanics and thermodynamics, physics of dielectrics, colour theory, electrodynamics, general relativity, and cosmology, and he made several attempts to construct a unified field theory. In his book \"What Is Life?\" Schrödinger addressed the problems of genetics, looking at the phenomenon of life from the point of view of physics. He paid great attention to the philosophical aspects of science, ancient and oriental philosophical concepts, ethics, and religion. He also wrote on philosophy and theoretical biology. He is also known for his \"Schrödinger's cat\" thought-experiment.\n\nOn 12 August 1887, Schrödinger was born in , Vienna, Austria, to (cerecloth producer, botanist) and Georgine Emilia Brenda Schrödinger (née Bauer) (daughter of , professor of chemistry, TU Wien). He was their only child.\n\nHis mother was of half Austrian and half English descent; his father was Catholic and his mother was Lutheran. Although he was raised in a religious household as a Lutheran, he called himself an atheist. However, he had strong interests in Eastern religions, pantheism and used religious symbolism in his works. He also believed his scientific work was an approach to the godhead, albeit in a metaphorical sense.\n\nHe was also able to learn English outside of school, as his maternal grandmother was British. Between 1906 and 1910 Schrödinger studied in Vienna under Franz S. Exner (1849–1926) and Friedrich Hasenöhrl (1874–1915). He also conducted experimental work with Karl Wilhelm Friedrich \"Fritz\" Kohlrausch.\n\nIn 1911, Schrödinger became an assistant to Exner. At an early age, Schrödinger was strongly influenced by Arthur Schopenhauer. As a result of his extensive reading of Schopenhauer's works, he became deeply interested throughout his life in colour theory and philosophy. In his lecture \"Mind and Matter\", he said that \"The world extended in space and time is but our representation.\" This is a repetition of the first words of Schopenhauer's main work.\n\nIn 1914 Erwin Schrödinger achieved Habilitation (\"venia legendi\"). Between 1914 and 1918 he participated in war work as a commissioned officer in the Austrian fortress artillery (Gorizia, Duino, Sistiana, Prosecco, Vienna). In 1920 he became the assistant to Max Wien, in Jena, and in September 1920 he attained the position of ao. Prof. (\"ausserordentlicher Professor\"), roughly equivalent to Reader (UK) or associate professor (US), in Stuttgart. In 1921, he became o. Prof. (\"ordentlicher Professor\", i.e. full professor), in Breslau (now Wrocław, Poland).\n\nIn 1921, he moved to the University of Zürich. In 1927, he succeeded Max Planck at the Friedrich Wilhelm University in Berlin. In 1934, however, Schrödinger decided to leave Germany; he disliked the Nazis' anti-semitism. He became a Fellow of Magdalen College at the University of Oxford. Soon after he arrived, he received the Nobel Prize together with Paul Dirac. His position at Oxford did not work out well; his unconventional domestic arrangements, sharing living quarters with two women, were not met with acceptance. In 1934, Schrödinger lectured at Princeton University; he was offered a permanent position there, but did not accept it. Again, his wish to set up house with his wife and his mistress may have created a problem. He had the prospect of a position at the University of Edinburgh but visa delays occurred, and in the end he took up a position at the University of Graz in Austria in 1936. He had also accepted the offer of chair position at Department of Physics, Allahabad University in India.\n\nIn the midst of these tenure issues in 1935, after extensive correspondence with Albert Einstein, he proposed what is now called the Schrödinger's cat thought experiment.\n\nIn 1938, after the Anschluss, Schrödinger had problems because of his flight from Germany in 1933 and his known opposition to Nazism. He issued a statement recanting this opposition (he later regretted doing so and explained the reason to Einstein). However, this did not fully appease the new dispensation and the University of Graz dismissed him from his job for political unreliability. He suffered harassment and received instructions not to leave the country, but he and his wife fled to Italy. From there, he went to visiting positions in Oxford and Ghent University.\nIn the same year he received a personal invitation from Ireland's Taoiseach, Éamon de Valera, to reside in Ireland and agree to help establish an Institute for Advanced Studies in Dublin. He moved to Clontarf, Dublin, became the Director of the School for Theoretical Physics in 1940 and remained there for 17 years. He became a naturalized Irish citizen in 1948, but retained his Austrian citizenship. He wrote about 50 further publications on various topics, including his explorations of unified field theory.\n\nIn 1944, he wrote \"What Is Life?\", which contains a discussion of negentropy and the concept of a complex molecule with the genetic code for living organisms. According to James D. Watson's memoir, \"DNA, the Secret of Life\", Schrödinger's book gave Watson the inspiration to research the gene, which led to the discovery of the DNA double helix structure in 1953. Similarly, Francis Crick, in his autobiographical book \"What Mad Pursuit\", described how he was influenced by Schrödinger's speculations about how genetic information might be stored in molecules.\n\nSchrödinger stayed in Dublin until retiring in 1955. He had a lifelong interest in the Vedanta philosophy of Hinduism, which influenced his speculations at the close of \"What Is Life?\" about the possibility that individual consciousness is only a manifestation of a unitary consciousness pervading the universe. A manuscript \"Fragment From An Unpublished Dialogue of Galileo\" from this time recently resurfaced at The King's Hospital boarding school, Dublin after it was written for the School's 1955 edition of their Blue Coat to celebrate his leaving of Dublin to take up his appointment as Chair of Physics at the University of Vienna.\n\nIn 1956, he returned to Vienna (chair \"ad personam\"). At an important lecture during the World Energy Conference he refused to speak on nuclear energy because of his skepticism about it and gave a philosophical lecture instead. During this period Schrödinger turned from mainstream quantum mechanics' definition of wave–particle duality and promoted the wave idea alone, causing much controversy.\n\nOn 6 April 1920, Schrödinger married Annemarie (Anny) Bertel. Schrödinger suffered from tuberculosis and several times in the 1920s stayed at a sanatorium in Arosa. It was there that he formulated his wave equation.\nAs has been noted above, Schrödinger had an unconventional personal life. When he migrated to Ireland in 1938, he obtained visas for himself, his wife and also another woman, Mrs. Hilde March. March was the wife of an Austrian colleague and Schrödinger had fathered a daughter with her in 1934. Schrödinger wrote personally to the Taoiseach, Éamon de Valera, to obtain the visa for Mrs. March. In October 1939 the \"ménage à trois\" duly took up residence in Dublin. Schrödinger fathered two further daughters by two different women during his time in Ireland. \n\nOn 4 January 1961, Schrödinger died of tuberculosis, aged 73, in Vienna. He left Anny a widow, and was buried in Alpbach, Austria, in a Catholic cemetery. Although he was not Catholic, the priest in charge of the cemetery permitted the burial after learning Schrödinger was a member of the Pontifical Academy of Sciences. His wife, Anny (born 3 December 1896) died on 3 October 1965. Schrödinger's grandson, Professor Terry Rudolph, has followed in his footsteps as a quantum physicist, and teaches at Imperial College London.\nEarly in his life, Schrödinger experimented in the fields of electrical engineering, atmospheric electricity, and atmospheric radioactivity, but he usually worked with his former teacher Franz Exner. He also studied vibrational theory, the theory of Brownian movement, and mathematical statistics. In 1912, at the request of the editors of the \"Handbook of Electricity and Magnetism\", Schrödinger wrote an article titled \"Dieelectrism\". That same year, Schrödinger gave a theoretical estimate of the probable height distribution of radioactive substances, which is required to explain the observed radioactivity of the atmosphere, and in August 1913 executed several experiments in Zeehame that confirmed his theoretical estimate and those of Victor Franz Hess. For this work, Schrödinger was awarded the 1920 Haitinger Prize (Haitinger-Preis) of the Austrian Academy of Sciences. Other experimental studies conducted by the young researcher in 1914 were checking formulas for capillary pressure in gas bubbles and the study of the properties of soft beta-radiation appearing in the fall of gamma rays on the surface of metal. The last work he performed together with his friend Fritz Kohlrausch. In 1919, Schrödinger performed his last physical experiment on coherent light and subsequently focused on theoretical studies.\n\nIn the first years of his career Schrödinger became acquainted with the ideas of quantum theory, developed in the works of Max Planck, Albert Einstein, Niels Bohr, Arnold Sommerfeld, and others. This knowledge helped him work on some problems in theoretical physics, but the Austrian scientist at the time was not yet ready to part with the traditional methods of classical physics.\n\nThe first publications of Schrödinger about atomic theory and the theory of spectra began to emerge only from the beginning of the 1920s, after his personal acquaintance with Sommerfeld and Wolfgang Pauli and his move to Germany. In January 1921, Schrödinger finished his first article on this subject, about the framework of the Bohr-Sommerfeld effect of the interaction of electrons on some features of the spectra of the alkali metals. Of particular interest to him was the introduction of relativistic considerations in quantum theory. In autumn 1922 he analyzed the electron orbits in an atom from a geometric point of view, using methods developed by the mathematician Hermann Weyl (1885–1955). This work, in which it was shown that quantum orbits are associated with certain geometric properties, was an important step in predicting some of the features of wave mechanics. Earlier in the same year he created the Schrödinger equation of the relativistic Doppler effect for spectral lines, based on the hypothesis of light quanta and considerations of energy and momentum. He liked the idea of his teacher Exner on the statistical nature of the conservation laws, so he enthusiastically embraced the articles of Bohr, Kramers, and Slater, which suggested the possibility of violation of these laws in individual atomic processes (for example, in the process of emission of radiation). Although the experiments of Hans Geiger and Walther Bothe soon cast doubt on this, the idea of energy as a statistical concept was a lifelong attraction for Schrödinger and he discussed it in some reports and publications.\n\nIn January 1926, Schrödinger published in \"Annalen der Physik\" the paper \"\" (Quantization as an Eigenvalue Problem) on wave mechanics and presented what is now known as the Schrödinger equation. In this paper, he gave a \"derivation\" of the wave equation for time-independent systems and showed that it gave the correct energy eigenvalues for a hydrogen-like atom. This paper has been universally celebrated as one of the most important achievements of the twentieth century and created a revolution in most areas of quantum mechanics and indeed of all physics and chemistry. A second paper was submitted just four weeks later that solved the quantum harmonic oscillator, rigid rotor, and diatomic molecule problems and gave a new derivation of the Schrödinger equation. A third paper, published in May, showed the equivalence of his approach to that of Heisenberg and gave the treatment of the Stark effect. A fourth paper in this series showed how to treat problems in which the system changes with time, as in scattering problems. In this paper he introduced a complex solution to the Wave equation in order to prevent the occurrence of fourth and sixth order differential equations. (This was arguably the moment when quantum mechanics switched from real to complex numbers.) When he introduced complex numbers in order to lower the order of the differential equations, something magical happened, and all of wave mechanics was at his feet. (He eventually reduced the order to one.) These papers were his central achievement and were at once recognized as having great significance by the physics community.\n\nSchrödinger was not entirely comfortable with the implications of quantum theory. Schrödinger wrote about the probability interpretation of quantum mechanics, saying: \"I don't like it, and I'm sorry I ever had anything to do with it.\"\n\nFollowing his work on quantum mechanics, Schrödinger devoted considerable effort to working on a Unified Field Theory that would unite gravity, electromagnetism, and nuclear forces within the basic framework of General Relativity, doing the work with an extended correspondence with Albert Einstein. In 1947, he announced a result, \"Affine Field Theory,\" in a talk at the Royal Irish Academy, but the announcement was criticized by Einstein as \"preliminary\" and failed to lead to the desired unified theory. Following the failure of his attempt at unification, Schrödinger gave up his work on unification and turned to other topics.\n\nSchrödinger had a strong interest in psychology, in particular colour perception and colorimetry (German: \"\"). He spent quite a few years of his life working on these questions and published a series of papers in this area:\n\nHis work on the psychology of colour perception follows the step of Newton, Maxwell and von Helmholtz in the same area. Some of these paper have been translated to English and can be found in: \"Sources of Colour Science\", Ed. David L. MacAdam, MIT Press (1970).\n\nThe philosophical issues raised by Schrödinger's cat are still debated today and remain his most enduring legacy in popular science, while Schrödinger's equation is his most enduring legacy at a more technical level. To this day, Schrödinger is known as the father of quantum mechanics. The large crater Schrödinger, on the far side of the Moon, is named after him. The Erwin Schrödinger International Institute for Mathematical Physics was established in Vienna in 1993.\n\nSchrödinger's portrait was the main feature of the design of the 1983–97 Austrian 1000-Schilling banknote, the second-highest denomination.\n\nA building is named after him at the University of Limerick, in Limerick, Ireland, as is the 'Erwin Schrödinger Zentrum' at Adlershof in Berlin.\n\nSchrödinger's 126th birthday anniversary was celebrated with a Google Doodle.\n\n\nSchrodinger's cat is named in his honour, see also list of things named after Erwin Schrödinger.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8379581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8379581", "title": "Europa (oil company)", "text": "Europa (oil company)\n\nEuropa was a New Zealand-owned oil company that was operated by the Todd family in New Zealand, in competition with overseas firms such as Texaco (now Caltex in NZ), Plume (now Mobil), Shell (now Z Energy) and Atlantic (now Mobil).\n\nStarting in Dunedin (where the Todd family was based), in 1931 Charles Todd decided to import his own petrol. From 1933 the \"Europa\" brand of cheap imported petrol from the Soviet Union was sold through a chain of service stations across the country, in association with the New Zealand Farmer's Union and various regional Automobile Associations. Because of price undercutting by the overseas firms, the government introduced regulation of petrol prices from 1933.\n\nIn the early sixties the company was fined a large sum in a Transfer pricing scandal.\n\nIn 1972 British Petroleum NZ acquired a 60% interest in the company.\nDuring this time, the company produced what was an award-winning television advert that featured American rock legend Stevie Ray Vaughan and New Zealand Blues legend Midge Marsden as part of the \"Travellin' On\" television adverts. The television adverts were shot mainly around the Central North Island of New Zealand during 1988.\n\nThis would be the last major television advert used until 1989 when the Europa brand was replaced with the BP shield.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44082578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44082578", "title": "Even Though the Whole World Is Burning", "text": "Even Though the Whole World Is Burning\n\nEven Though the Whole World Is Burning is a feature documentary film about former United States Poet Laureate and environmental activist W. S. Merwin. The film is directed and produced by Stefan Schaefer and screened at, among others, the Maui Film Festival, DOXA Film Festival, Environmental Film Festival, Seattle International Film Festival, and the Hawaii International Film Festival. \n\nW.S. Merwin: To Plant a Tree is a one-hour documentary edited from \"Even Though the Whole World Is Burning\", produced by Cicala Filmworks and WNET, and directed by Stefan Schaefer, specifically for national broadcast on PBS. It screened widely at film festivals.\n\n"}
{"id": "13680172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13680172", "title": "Fjordkraft", "text": "Fjordkraft\n\nFjordkraft is a Norwegian power company that delivers power to end users.\n\nThe company took over the retailing function from BKK and Skagerak Energi, which along with Statkraft own the company. Power is bought on Nord Pool Spot. The power grid and production facilities are retained by the owners. The company is based in Bergen, with its other two regional offices in Sandefjord and Trondheim.\n\nIn the year 2011, Brady's Sales Manager Solution, was implemented by Fjordkraft for integrated end user energy pricing and risk management. Brady is a global provider of trading, risk management and settlement solutions to the energy, metals and commodities sectors.\n\nONZO, a London-based Data Science Software Company announced a 5-year partnership with Fjordkraft, in 2015.\n"}
{"id": "286368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=286368", "title": "Ford Crown Victoria", "text": "Ford Crown Victoria\n\nThe Ford Crown Victoria (colloquially called the \"Crown Vic\") is a full-size sedan that was marketed and manufactured by Ford from the 1992 to the 2011 model years. The successor to the Ford LTD Crown Victoria, the Ford Crown Victoria served as the flagship sedan of the Ford model line, slotted above the Ford Taurus and as the Ford counterpart of the Mercury Grand Marquis. Produced across two generations, the Crown Victoria was sold exclusively as a four-door sedan. Ford marketed the purpose-built Ford Crown Victoria Police Interceptor police car variant to law-enforcement agencies; a long-wheelbase sedan for commercial (taxi) use was introduced in 2002. \n\nThe Ford Crown Victoria was produced on the rear-wheel drive Ford Panther platform, shared with the Grand Marquis and Lincoln Town Car. From 1997 to their 2011 withdrawal, the three sedans were the final full-frame rear-wheel-drive passenger sedans produced in North America and the only non-luxury sedans offered with a standard V8 engine; the 4.6L Modular V8 introduced in 1992 was the first overhead-cam engine . \n\nThe Ford Crown Victoria (and Crown Victoria Police Interceptor) were produced at the now-closed St. Thomas Assembly in Southwold, Ontario, Canada. The final vehicle produced at the facility was a 2012 Ford Crown Victoria, as part of a small group of vehicles intended for export to the Middle East. In total, over 1.5 million examples of the Ford Crown Victoria (including Police Interceptors) were manufactured by St. Thomas Assembly from 1991 to 2011. Within the Ford model line, the Crown Victoria was not directly replaced, with the front/all-wheel drive Ford Taurus most closely matching it in interior and trunk dimensions.\n\nThe first use of the Crown Victoria nameplate by Ford was in 1955. To showcase its premium Ford Fairlane model range, above the Fairlane Victoria two-door hardtop, the Fairlane Crown Victoria received its own B-pillared roofline. While Ford had last used the Victoria nameplate in 1932 (in reference to the style of carriage), the Crown Victoria name derived from the wide stainless-steel band \"crowning\" the roof. While the B-pillar replaced the hardtop roofline (as on the base Ford Mainline), the design allowed for a sleeker appearance. The Crown Victoria Skyliner was a variant of the Crown Victoria with a fixed roof panel of acrylic glass. \n\nFor the 1956 model year, along with the rest of the Ford model line, the Fairlane Crown Victoria was offered with the Lifeguard option package as an option.\n\nAs the Ford model line was redesigned for 1957, the Ford Fairlane Crown Victoria was withdrawn with no replacement. The Skyliner name was revived, becoming used for the Ford Fairlane 500 Skyliner retractable hardtop convertible.\n\nFor the 1980 model year, the Ford Crown Victoria nameplate was revived (after a 23-year hiatus). As part of the then-recent downsizing of the full-size Ford model lines, the LTD Crown Victoria replaced the 1975-1979 LTD Landau. Sold as a two-door and four-door sedan, the LTD Crown Victoria shared its interior trim with the LTD Country Squire station wagon. To distinguish itself from its Mercury Marquis counterpart, the vinyl roof of the LTD Crown Victoria was fitted with a stainless-steel band to trim the B-pillars (with the standard vinyl roof not extending past the B-pillar) \n\nFor 1983, as part of an extensive revision of the midsize and full-size model lines of all three Ford divisions, the LTD Crown Victoria became a stand-alone model line (along its Mercury Grand Marquis counterpart); the base-trim Ford LTD was shifted to the mid-size segment, replacing the Ford Granada. \n\nAfter its withdrawal after the 1991 model year, the LTD Crown Victoria (and LTD Country Squire station wagon) marked the final usage of the Ford LTD nameplate in North America. Ford of Australia would continue the nameplate on its flagship through the 2007 model year. \n\nThe Ford Crown Victoria began production in 1991 as a 1992 model. In an effort to optimize its availability for buyers, at the launch, fleet sales of the vehicle were postponed for 14 months. To better distinguish the generation for buyers, the long-running LTD prefix was dropped. In line with the redesign of the 1991 Chevrolet Caprice (its chief competitor), the 1992 Crown Victoria featured a major exterior redesign on the previous-generation chassis. Focused on aerodynamics and fuel efficiency, Ford reduced the coefficient of drag of the exterior from 0.42 to 0.34 (nearly matching the 0.32 of the Ford Taurus).\n\nDue to a market shift in family-oriented vehicles, the Crown Victoria was offered exclusively as a four-door sedan, with the wood-trim LTD Country Squire station wagon discontinued. While the Ford Taurus and Mercury Sable continued in production with optional three-row seating, the role of the Country Squire was effectively superseded by the Ford Aerostar and Ford Econoline/Ford Club Wagon vans, and the Ford Explorer SUVs.\n\nDuring their launch, the Ford Crown Victoria (and Mercury Grand Marquis) were involved in a unique loophole involving CAFE. Though produced in Southwold, Ontario (which otherwise made them domestic automobiles), to avoid gas-guzzler taxes, Ford modified its supplier network in order for the two vehicles to be classified as imported vehicles, effectively removing the full-size sedans from the Ford domestic CAFE fleet (alongside the Ford Mustang V8) and placing them in its imported fleet (alongside the Ford Festiva).\n\nIn lieu of developing an all-new platform architecture from the ground up, the Crown Victoria retained the Panther platform of its LTD Crown Victoria predecessor as its chassis. Although launched in 1979, the Panther chassis underwent extensive upgrades to improve its road manners and handling; major updates were made to the steering and suspension tuning. To improve braking performance, the Crown Victoria gained four-wheel disc brakes (only seen on the Lincoln Mark VII and Ford Taurus SHO); anti-lock brakes and low-speed traction control were available as an option, which became a popular feature. For 1997, several updates were made to improve handling response and steering control\n\nShowcased in the redesign was the Modular V8. First introduced in the 1991 Lincoln Town Car, the 4.6L SOHC V8 was the replacement for the 5.0L (302 CID) Windsor V8 and the first engine of a family of overhead-cam engines that would be introduced in a number of Ford and Lincoln-Mercury cars and trucks. Lighter than its predecessor, the 4.6L V8 produced nearly identical torque output while producing 40 additional horsepower in its standard single-exhaust configuration. As with its predecessor and the Lincoln Town Car, the 4.6L V8 was paired with a 4-speed overdrive automatic transmission. In 1993, the Ford AOD transmission was replaced by the electronically-controlled AOD-E version. For 1995, the AOD-E was replaced by the 4R70W, a heavier-duty version introduced in the Lincoln Mark VIII.\n\nFord based much of the Crown Victoria's appearance on the first-generation Ford Taurus, a look pioneered by Jack Telnack, Ford VP of Design. Though the Taurus became wildly popular in its market segment, Telnack's \"Aero\" look proved to be either a love or hate proposition with potential buyers of the full-size, wedge-shaped Crown Victoria. Along with its distinctive no-grille front fascia, the Crown Victoria would share a similar roofline with the Taurus, similar body and bumper moldings, similar door handles, aircraft-style doors, and similarly shaped headlamp and taillamp clusters.\n\nTo reduce aesthetic commonality with the Mercury Grand Marquis, only the front doors, windshield, and alloy wheels were shared between them. For the interior, the two vehicles also were given different seats, door trim and dashboards; the Crown Victoria featured an instrument panel with round dials while the Grand Marquis featured a horizontal speedometer. An electronic instrument panel was introduced as an option.\n\nThough better received than the 1990 redesign of the Chevrolet Caprice, the 1992 Crown Victoria was met with disapproval from some critics and buyers, leading Ford to revise the exterior. In late 1992 for model year 1993, a grille was added to the front fascia (though it retained its \"bottom-breather\" configuration); for 1994, a red reflector strip was added to the trunk lid to visually connect the taillamps.\n\nIn 1994 for MY 1995, a mid-cycle redesign saw more extensive changes to the Crown Victoria; a 6-slit grille replaced the egg crate grille and wider taillamps were added to the rear (the license plate was moved to the trunk lid). For the interior, the Crown Victoria and Grand Marquis adopted the same dashboard, using round dials for the instrument panel and larger controls and switches. In addition, the seats were redesigned. In late 1995, the first-generation Ford \"brick\" airbag steering wheel was replaced by a version with a smaller hub (moving the horn back to the steering wheel hub).\n\nAs with its LTD Crown Victoria predecessor, the Crown Victoria was a six-passenger automobile; the front seat was a 50/50 split bench seat. The Crown Victoria was sold in two trim levels: base-trim and Crown Victoria LX, with the latter forming the majority of non-fleet sales. In addition, the Crown Victoria P71 replaced the fleet-market \"S\" designation in 1993; the P71 was marketed exclusively for law-enforcement sales.\n\nAs with the Mercury Grand Marquis, a driver airbag was standard equipment and a passenger airbag was added as an option during later 1991 production. It later became standard in 1993 for the 1994 model year. A popular feature were the anti-lock brakes and low-speed traction control. For 1996, a single-key entry system became standard, along with a hidden audio antenna, rear window defroster and tinted glass. Automatic climate control and a JBL audio system became available on the LX.\n\nFor 1992, Ford introduced the Crown Victoria Touring Sedan as a performance-oriented flagship trim. The Touring Sedan featured a number of suspension and handling improvements over the Crown Victoria LX, featuring the heavier-duty suspension components of the police-package version, also including wider tires, rear air suspension, the removal of the speed limiter, and a 210 hp dual-exhaust 4.6L V8. Optional features included speed-sensitive steering and larger-diameter sway bars.\n\nDistinguished by its standard two-tone exterior paint scheme (with painted alloy wheels), the Crown Victoria Touring Sedan featured a model-unique leather interior with every feature available on a Crown Victoria at the time. For a lower price, Ford offered the performance upgrades of the Touring Sedan on the LX as the Handling and Performance Package alongside a separate towing package. The Touring Sedan became a one year-only model, as it was discontinued after 1992. However, in various forms, the Handling and Performance Package remained an option until 2007.\n\nThe second generation of the 1998 Ford Crown Victoria commenced sales on December 26, 1997. Although the 1992-1997 Ford Crown Victoria saw better critical and marketplace acceptance than the controversial styling of the 1991 Chevrolet Caprice, its sales struggled to match those of its Mercury Grand Marquis counterpart. In an effort to gain acceptance among buyers (and increase parts commonality), for the 1998 model year, the Crown Victoria adopted much of the exterior design of the Mercury Grand Marquis.\n\nFollowing its 1998 introduction, the second-generation Crown Victoria underwent an extensive revision for the 2003 model year. Introduced in April 2002, while the exterior saw no change, nearly the entire chassis was redesigned, with major updates to the suspension and steering.\n\nThe second-generation Ford Crown Victoria continued the use of the Ford Panther platform, shared with the Mercury Grand Marquis and Lincoln Town Car.\n\nUnder the 1998 redesign, several changes were made to the rear suspension to improve general road manners (at the expense of reduced towing capacity). The original three-link coil-spring configuration was replaced with a four-link configuration with a Watt's linkage. Continuing the use of four-wheel disc brakes, for 1998, enlarged brake rotors necessitated a shift to 16-inch wheels for all Crown Victoria models. For 1999, ABS became standard on all Crown Victorias (except Police Interceptors).\n\nFor the 2003 model year, the suspension and steering underwent an extensive update, paired with the chassis redesign. For the first time, the Crown Victoria adopted rack and pinion steering (replacing the long-running recirculating ball system), with the adoption of aluminum front control arms. In the rear, twin-tube shocks (in use since the mid-1960s), were replaced by monotube shocks; to improve maintenance and on-road handling, the shocks were moved outside of the frame rails. As part of the suspension upgrades, the Panther-chassis vehicles were fitted with wheels with high positive offset (flat-face). For 2006, the steel wheels of the Crown Victoria shifted to a 17-inch diameter.\n\nThe second-generation is powered by a single engine, the 4.6L SOHC 16-valve Modular V8. Carried over from 1992-1997, output for 1998 was raised to 200 hp (dual-exhaust examples produced 215 hp). For 1999, spark plug wires were replaced by coil-on-plug ignition (a feature first used on the DOHC 4.6L V8). For 2001, the 4.6L V8 received new cylinder heads (from the Mustang GT), raising output to 220 hp (235 hp in dual-exhaust configuration). For 2003, the engine output was increased further, to 224 hp and 239 hp (depending on exhaust configuration); the increase resulted from a knock sensor fitted to the engine. For 2004, engine output was increased for the last time, as the Police Interceptor raised output to 250 hp (as its engine received the air intake of the Mercury Marauder). For 2005, the engine underwent a minor revision, as it adopted electronic \"drive-by-wire\" throttle control.\n\nFrom 1998 to 2004, the 4R70W 4-speed automatic was paired with the 4.6L V8, replaced by the 4R70E after 2005 (the latter designed to accommodate electronic throttle controls); the 4R75W was exclusive to the 2004 Police Interceptor.\n\nFollowing the poor critical and sales acceptance of the 1991-1996 Chevrolet Caprice and Buick Roadmaster, for the second-generation Crown Victoria, Ford sought a more conservative exterior design, choosing design commonality with the Mercury Grand Marquis over the Ford Taurus. In doing so, the Crown Victoria adopted the formal notchback roofline of its Mercury counterpart, sharing all four doors (previously, the front doors were shared). On the front fascia, both the grille and headlamps were enlarged. The rear fascia underwent a redesign, as large taillamp units were mounted at the corners of the body, replacing the previous full-width design. In contrast to its Mercury counterpart, the Crown Victoria was nearly devoid of chrome trim, largely restricted to the grille, window trim, and trunklid.\n\nIn contrast to the exterior, relatively few changes were made to the interior, updated for the 1995 model year. Offered with nearly the same features as the Grand Marquis, the Crown Victoria was largely differentiated by its (optional) wood trim and seating materials.\n\nTo comply with US federal regulations, for 2000, the Crown Victoria adopted an emergency trunk release system, alongside other safety features, including LATCH anchors and \"Belt Minder\" (seat belt reminder chime that sounds for an unbelted front seat occupant). For 2001, the dual airbags were redesigned, replaced by dual-stage airbags; power-adjustable pedals became an option. For 2003, seat-mounted side airbags became an option. For the 2007 model year, the optional side airbags underwent revision to better protect passengers in side-impact collisions.\n\nFor the 2002 model year, heated exterior side mirrors became available, along with standard floor mats, improved cloth upholstery; for LX-trim vehicles, a trunk storage organizer became an option.\n\nIn contrast to the extensive mechanical changes for the 2003 model year (and redesigns of the Mercury Grand Marquis and Lincoln Town Car), the Ford Crown Victoria saw no exterior changes since the 1998 model year (grille changes were limited to Police Interceptors). For the interior, a minor update saw redesigned front and rear seats (distinguished by taller head restraints) and redesigned door panels.\n\nDuring the 2003 model year (after December 2002 production), Ford began to de-content the Crown Victoria, removing the amber-color turn signal lenses, body-color sideview mirrors, front-seat map pouches, locking fuel cap, automatic-release parking brake, and engine compartment light. For 2004, in one of the first American cars to do so, the Crown Victoria adopted laminated door glass as an option; along with providing additional security, the feature filtered UV light and heat from the interior. In another revision, the overhead console was redesigned.\n\nFor 2005, the Crown Victoria received a new non-locking steering column, which gave the model its first new steering wheel since 1998. For the first time, the Crown Victoria offered a moonroof as an option; in line with other Ford vehicles, a 6-disc CD changer became an option.\n\nFor 2006, the dashboard of the Crown Victoria saw a revision, as Ford introduced a new instrument panel (for the first time since 1992). Along with becoming the final Ford Motor Company fitted with a tachometer in North America, the 2006 Crown Victoria became the final Ford vehicle to adopt a digital odometer (as the digital instrument panel option was discontinued); Police Interceptors were given an engine hour meter. \n\nCarried over from the 1992-1997 Crown Victoria, the second-generation Crown Victoria was marketed in two trim levels: Ford Crown Victoria and Ford Crown Victoria LX (internally designated P73 and P74, respectively). The Crown Victoria P71 was carried over, with Ford creating the Crown Victoria Police Interceptor as a stand-alone model for 1999.\n\nFor 2000, Ford offered a \"Special Edition\" option package for the LX; along with namesake exterior badging, the interior was fitted with two-tone leather seating.\n\nFor 2001, Ford offered a counterpart to the Mercury Grand Marquis LSE, named the Sport Appearance Package. Alongside the standard Handling and Performance Package, the Sport Appearance Package offered 5-passenger seating with a floor-mounted shifter, 5-spoke aluminum wheels, and monochromatic exterior trim. For 2002, the Sport Appearance Package was renamed Crown Victoria LX Sport; with the Handling and Performance Package, it was fitted with rear air suspension, a 3.27:1 rear-axle ratio, and a larger rear stabilizer bar. Sharing many of the performance upgrades of the Mercury Marauder (with the exception of the engine), the LX Sport was produced through 2006. For 2007, most features of the LX Sport returned as the Handling and Performance Package became a stand-alone option.\n\nIn 2006, after factoring out fleet/Police Interceptor sales (95% of production), retail sales of the Crown Victoria dwindled to 3,000 (coming within 1,100 units of the Ford GT supercar), outsold by its Mercury Grand Marquis counterpart by an 18-to-1 margin. For 2008, Ford ended retail sale of the Crown Victoria in the United States, removing the model from its website (later replacing it with the newly revived 2008 Ford Taurus); through Ford Fleet, sales continued of the Police Interceptor and commercial (taxi/fleet/LWB) variants. Subsequently, the only retail market selling the Ford Crown Victoria was the GCC/Middle East, with the Crown Victoria sold alongside the Mercury Grand Marquis.\n\nFor 2009, the Crown Victoria model line underwent a consolidation, as the LX became the sole version of the standard-wheelbase Crown Victoria (alongside the Police Interceptor). In line with its Mercury and Lincoln counterparts, 17-inch wheels became standard, with the LX adopting the 5-spoke alloy wheels of the LX Sport/Handling and Performance Package. To streamline manufacturing, several features were standardized, including power-adjustable pedals and side airbags. To comply with federal regulations, recessed power window switches were added (replacing a design used since 1995).\n\nThe Ford Crown Victoria is the only Panther vehicle which was produced for the 2012 model year, as the Mercury Grand Marquis, Lincoln Town Car, and Ford Crown Victoria Police Interceptor were discontinued during the 2011 model year. As 2012 production was illegal for sale in the United States (due to lack of stability control), the entire 2012 production was exported to the Middle East.\n\nFrom the 1992 introduction of the Crown Victoria to the 2005 introduction of the Ford Five Hundred, the layout of American full-size sedans underwent an extensive transition. By 1996, as General Motors ended production of the Chevrolet Caprice, Buick Roadmaster, and Cadillac Fleetwood, virtually all competitors of the Crown Victoria had adopted front-wheel drive, with a five-passenger configuration largely replacing six-passenger seating (with the first two generations of the Toyota Avalon becoming the sole Japanese-brand sedan marketed in North America with a front bench seat).\n\nAs an unintended consequence of the 1996 discontinuation of the Chevrolet Caprice, in the late 1990s, the Crown Victoria secured a near-monopoly of police car sales and significant market share of taxi vehicles; both segments viewed body-on-frame construction with rear-wheel drive as advantageous attributes. As the sole remaining competitor of Crown Victoria was its Mercury Grand Marquis counterpart, to decrease internal competition, marketing for the Crown Victoria was de-emphasized, shifting buyers interested in Ford vehicles to the Taurus; buyers seeking full-size vehicles were shifted towards the Mercury Grand Marquis and Lincoln Town Car.\n\nFor 2005, Ford introduced the Five Hundred sedan, deriving its chassis components from the Volvo S80. The larger of the two cars intended to replace the Ford Taurus (alongside the Ford Fusion), the front-wheel drive Five Hundred was the first completely new full-size Ford sedan since 1979. While nearly a foot shorter than the Crown Victoria, the Five Hundred offered comparable interior dimensions; in a major shift, the Five Hundred adopted a five-passenger configuration as standard.\n\nThe 2006 Ford restructuring plan \"The Way Forward\" ultimately sealed the fate of the Ford Crown Victoria. Coinciding with the 2008 withdrawal of the Crown Victoria from retail sale (see above), in 2009, Ford announced the 2011 closure of St. Thomas Assembly in Southwold, Ontario, Canada. At the time, production of the Ford Panther platform was to cease, as the architecture was unable to support electronic stability control, required for 2012 vehicles sold in the United States and Canada. In line with the announcement, the Mercury Grand Marquis and Lincoln Town Car were discontinued without replacement (the former, as part of the closure of the Mercury brand).\n\nFrom August 31, 2011, St. Thomas Assembly produced a short run of 2012 model year Ford Crown Victorias; all vehicles were produced for GCC export, as they were illegal for sale in the United States and Canada. On September 15, 2011, the final Ford Crown Victoria rolled off the assembly line, destined for export to Saudi Arabia; the vehicle was the final Panther-platform vehicle produced and the final vehicle produced at St. Thomas Assembly.\n\nAs with the Mercury Grand Marquis and Lincoln Town Car, the Ford Crown Victoria was discontinued with no direct successor. The Crown Victoria Police Interceptor is the only Panther-platform vehicle that was directly replaced, as Ford introduced Ford Police Interceptor sedan (based on the Taurus) and the Police Interceptor Utility (based on the Ford Explorer); both vehicles are derived from each other and are redesigned versions of the chassis introduced by the Ford Five Hundred. In 2010, a variant of the Ford Transit Connect was developed specifically for taxicab usage. While not the winner of the New York City Taxi of Tomorrow competition, the Transit Connect has been adopted for use elsewhere in the United States.\n\nStarting with the 1998 model year, the police version of the Crown Victoria, previously named \"Crown Victoria P71\", was changed to \"Police Interceptor\", and new rear badging was assigned instead of the civilian Crown Victoria badge. Though the Crown Victoria badge is still affixed to Police Interceptors equipped with the \"Street Appearance\" package for vehicles that require civilian styling (undercover cars, office/city motor pool, fire departments, etc.), Police Interceptor models come with a black front grille, a black rear fascia on the trunk lid, with chrome trim under the tail lights through 1999 models and black trim under the tail lights on 2000 and later models. 1999 through 2000 models have a blacked out version of the standard chrome bar grille, while 2001 and up models have a black honeycomb type grille. They also have several \"heavier-duty\" mechanical upgrades, and newer models have additional safety features to deal with fuel-tank safety concerns. Ford has replaced the Crown Victoria Police Interceptor with upgraded and heavy-duty versions of the Ford Explorer and Ford Taurus. In response, many police departments like that of Austin, Texas, are buying reserve supplies of the last Crown Victorias to allow them to maintain a fleet of reliable police cars into the future.\n\nIn 2002, Ford introduced a long-wheelbase version of the Crown Victoria, available only to commercial fleets (mostly used by taxi companies) in North American markets. This version gives extra of wheelbase length, made possible by a new frame and extended body.\n\nThis version is not available to the general public, nor is there a stretched version of the Police Interceptor. However, there was a special service version available for the police market from 2002 to 2006, with an available street-appearance trim option from 2002 to 2004, due to its targeted use mostly in the taxi and livery market.\n\nIn the Middle East, long-wheelbase versions of both the Mercury Grand Marquis and Crown Victoria were available to the general public.\n\nFord of Canada (the official manufacturer of the Crown Victoria, Police Interceptor, and Mercury Grand Marquis) marketed the Ford Crown Victoria in Canada through the 1999 model year. Coinciding with the withdrawal of the Mercury brand from Canada, for the 2000 model year, Ford of Canada continued sale of the Grand Marquis in Ford dealerships through the 2009 model year, replaced by the 2010 Ford Taurus. For fleets, sales of the Crown Victoria (consisting largely of the Police Interceptor) continued through the 2011 model year; as in the United States, its lack of stability control precluded further legal sale in Canada. \n\nThrough its production, the Ford Crown Victoria was exported to two Gulf Cooperation Council nations (Kuwait and Saudi Arabia) alongside its Lincoln-Mercury counterparts. In a region favoring full-size sedans (among other vehicles) the Crown Victoria became popular, as buyers of the region favored its durability, reliability, and ease of use (in comparison to German and Japanese luxury vehicles), along with its lower price. As American nameplates shifted to newer vehicles (with the introduction of the Chrysler 300C, Dodge Charger, and the Chevrolet Caprice becoming a variant of the Holden Caprice), during the 2000s, the Crown Victoria, Grand Marquis, and Lincoln Town Car, while still popular, began to lose market share, primarily due to their age. \n\nPanther-chassis sedans destined for Middle East export were referred to as \"GCC-Spec\" vehicles. Five versions of the Crown Victoria were available: Standard, Sport, Long-wheelbase, LX, and LX Sport. Unlike the United States and Canada, the long-wheelbase Crown Victoria was available for retail sale. In Kuwait, where the Crown Victoria was outsold by the higher-trim Mercury Grand Marquis, only the Standard and Long-wheelbase versions were sold after 2000 (the LX was discontinued in 1999). \n\nAlong with the fitment of a metric instrument panel, several modifications are made to GCC-Spec Crown Victorias. In place of the 50/50 bench seat of the standard Crown Victoria, GCC-Spec vehicles use a 40/20/40 bench seat. Derived from the Lincoln Town Car, the front seat has air conditioning vents for the rear seats (except for LX Sport models), an 8-way driver's seat, a 4-way manual passenger seat (an 8-way power seat as an option); seat upholstery is either cloth or leather. On all standard-wheelbase models, a true dual-exhaust system was fitted (not available on an American Crown Victoria). On Standard and Standard Long-Wheelbase models, a driver's side spotlight assembly was optional. A DVD entertainment system (marketed as \"Export DVD Entertainment System\") was added for the 2007 model year; it was optional on Sport, LX and LX Sport models.\n\nDiffering from its American/Canadian counterpart, the warranty offered for a GCC-spec Crown Victoria was 5 years/200,000 kilometers (125,000 miles) – whichever came first. \n\nDerived from the Mercury Marauder, a trunklid spoiler was either standard or an option on all standard-wheelbase models. For GCC-spec vehicles, the optional Handling and Performance Package (HPP) offered in the United States was rebranded the Export Handling Package (EHP). The EHP differed from the HPP largely by its retention of the 2.73:1 rear axle ratio (the standard-equipment \"taller\" axle) and the use of a true dual exhaust system (standard equipment on all standard-wheelbase export Crown Victorias). Included as part of the Sport and LX Sport trims (optional on the LX), the package includes tuned rear air suspension, revised coil springs, handling shock absorbers and a larger rear stabilizer bar. On GCC-Spec Crown Victorias, the EHP option is externally distinguished by a monochromatic paint scheme, with Ford offering Dark Toreador Red, Silver Birch, Tungsten, and Black as color choices.\n\nWith no major redesign of the Crown Victoria since 1998, to keep the model line competitive, the GCC importer of Ford vehicles designed a commemorative trim package for the Ford Crown Victoria for the 2008 model year. Exclusive to GCC-Spec Standard models, the cosmetic package adds several cosmetic features, including:\n\nEverything else on the Special Edition package is identical to the Standard-trim model. Not listed in any sales literature, in Saudi Arabia, it was available with a choice of different colors. In Kuwait, the Special Edition was only available in black (due to market size); the price was approximately KWD 6,000 (approximately $22,000 USD). For 2009, the Special Edition was withdrawn. \n\nWhile the car has been highly rated for safety, there was some controversy and lawsuits in the 1990s and 2000s over Ford Crown Victoria gas tank leaks after certain types of high speed impacts, specifically when being hit in the rear end at high speeds. These impacts caused fuel tank failures in the Crown Victoria. The leaking fuel in combination with friction between the vehicle and the road was found to be the cause of fires.\n\nThe reports that the cars were more prone to fires during a rear collision were a simple combination of three things. First, most law enforcement agencies relied heavily on the Crown Victoria as their primary vehicle, meaning that any police-related auto accident was very likely to involve a Crown Victoria. Second, the accidents occurred as the result of the officers intentionally parking their vehicles close to active traffic to shield a stopped motorist—something most civilians would never do. Third, the impacting vehicle was often traveling at, or above, the posted legal limit ( in most jurisdictions).\n\nThe condition was exacerbated by police equipment installers drilling over the package tray in the luggage compartment. Due to the gas tank's orientation, drilling through the package tray may result in drilling into the gas tank. Installers also used screws set directly into the bulkhead and facing the fuel tank. In the event of a high-energy collision, these screws could be forced into the tank, both rupturing the tank and possibly acting as a spark source. Long bolts for mounting heavier equipment were also directly suspect. The manufacturer provided an aftermarket shield to help prevent these items from puncturing the tank during impact. Further, many investigations, both performed by federal/state agencies, and the police department themselves, have found that removable items in the trunk were improperly stowed. These items became tank-piercing projectiles during the rear-collision scenarios. Ford's second solution came in the form of a recall kit including patterns to mark unsafe areas (to drill) in the luggage compartment. Also included were rubberized kevlar and hard ballistic nylon shields for the differential cover lower shock bolts. They also included a kevlar-based trunk liner. Ford used similar kits on early-1980s model passenger vehicles. For 2005 and newer models, Ford offers an optional on-board fire-suppression system for the Crown Victoria Police Interceptor units. The system itself is integrated with the anti-lock braking system as part of the activation, and can be activated manually. However, Ford does cite several system limitations regarding fuel loss and impact speeds.\n\nDespite numerous court cases charging Ford with partial liability for fires caused in accidents, the company has never been found liable in a Crown Victoria accident.\n\nNotably, only the Ford Crown Victoria and new Ford police car have been certified for high speed rear impact collisions, adding credibility to Ford's statement that fiery crashes are a result of extreme and unfortunate situations.\n\nModel years 1996 to 2001 inclusive, using an all-composite intake manifold, are subject to coolant leaks. Late in 2005 Ford settled a class action lawsuit. See Intake Manifold Defect for details. This problem can be remedied by upgrading the intake manifold to the 2002 and up version.\n\n"}
{"id": "3214622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3214622", "title": "Glass code", "text": "Glass code\n\nA glass code is a method of classifying glasses for optical use, such as the manufacture of lenses and prisms. There are many different types of glass with different compositions and optical properties, and a glass code is used to distinguish between them.\n\nThere are several different glass classification schemes in use, most based on the catalogue systems used by glass manufacturers such as Pilkington and Schott Glass. These tend to be based on the material composition, for example \"BK7\" is the Schott Glass classification of a common borosilicate crown glass.\n\nThe international glass code is based on U.S. military standard MIL-G-174, and is a six-digit number specifying the glass according to its refractive index \"n\" at the Fraunhofer d- (or D-) line, and its Abbe number \"V\" also taken at that line.\n\nThe resulting glass code is the value of \"n\"-1 rounded to three digits, followed by \"V\" rounded to three digits, with all decimal points ignored. For example, BK7 has \"n\" = 1.5168 and \"V\" = 64.17, giving a six-digit glass code of 517642.\n\nThe following table shows some example glasses and their glass code. Note that the glass properties can vary slightly between different manufacturer types.\n"}
{"id": "13028706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13028706", "title": "Green market", "text": "Green market\n\nGreen market products are previously owned products that have been previously used and put back into productive use. These products are often repaired, refurbished and recycled by brokers, resellers or the original manufacturer. They are suitable for resale to customers as a lower cost alternative to buying new goods from standard distribution channels.\n\nThe term \"green market\" refers to the fact that the resold goods are put back into productive use, which is the most environmentally friendly use of used or discontinued products.\n\nAlthough the resale of green market goods sometimes competes with the original manufacturer, it also helps the manufacturer and the original end user by allowing the original end user to receive value for the product they no longer need and to use that value in purchasing new goods from the manufacturer.\n\nParts from green market goods are sometimes necessary for the maintenance of current products that are in need of replacement parts which are no longer available.\n\nManufacturers that produce products including computer, telecom equipment, technology equipment very often sell those products that equipment through distributors. Most distribution agreements require the distributor to resell the products strictly to end users. However, some distributors choose to resell those products to other resellers. In the late 1980s manufacturers labeled the resold products as \"grey market\".\n\nThere is nothing illegal about buying \"grey market\" products. In fact, the US Supreme Court has upheld that grey market products are legal for resale in the United States regardless of where they were produced or originally sold. The EU Supreme Court has similarly ruled that grey market products are legal for resale in the EU, provided that the equipment was originally sold by the manufacturer inside the EU.\n\nManufacturers created the term \"grey market\" in an effort to instill fear in customers that buying such equipment was somehow illegal in an effort to assure manufacturers that customers would only purchase buy directly from them.\n\nThe term \"grey market\" was chosen because of it similarity to the old term \"Black Market\" which refers to stolen and illegal products.\n\nPutting green market products into productive use or using the parts from green market products for repair is very cost effective and environmentally responsible. Replacing broken products with newer products has a negative effect on the environment and has been recognized as ecologically hazardous.\n\nElectronic equipment is made up of many precious materials including highly refined glass, gold, aluminum, silver, polymers, copper and brass. Electronic recycling companies have the ability to store, disassemble, separate and transport these materials to companies for reuse in manufacturing. This is an environmentally better solution than dumping the used products in landfills. Such dumping may pollute soil and water with dangerous and non-biodegradable waste.\n\nReferences- The Association of Service and Computer Dealers International\n\nThe North American Association of Telecommunications Dealers\n\nhttp://www.ascdi.com\n"}
{"id": "54531811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54531811", "title": "Hornsdale Wind Farm", "text": "Hornsdale Wind Farm\n\nThe Hornsdale Wind Farm is an electricity generator in the locality of Hornsdale in the south-west of the Narien Range, north of Jamestown, South Australia. It consists of 99 wind turbines with a generation capacity of . The plant is owned and operated by Neoen, a French renewable energy company.\n\nThe electricity generated by Hornsdale Wind Farm is contracted to be supplied to the Australian Capital Territory.\n\nThe \"Balance of Plant\" civil engineering and site works for the wind farm was performed by Catcon for all three stages of construction. The wind turbine generators were imported from Denmark, and the towers from Vietnam. They were commissioned by Siemens Australia. Before the whole wind farm was commissioned, Hornsdale was generating 86 MW immediately prior to the 2016 South Australian blackout in September 2016.\n\nTwo of the towers feature paintings by people from the indigenous peoples of the region. Jessica Turner is a Nukunu woman whose artwork represents the story of the serpent's role in forming aspects of the landscape, particularly waterholes. Chris Angrave and Louise Brown are Ngadjuri people who depicted how the \"Mungiura\" were found in hilly country, peering over the top of windbreaks before a storm, and blowing hard which caused a whirly wind.\n\nTesla, Inc. won the contract and built the Hornsdale Power Reserve adjacent to the Hornsdale wind farm, for a cost to Tesla of about US$50 million. It is promoted as the largest lithium-ion battery in the world. Samsung 21700-size cells are used.\n\nIt is owned and operated by Neoen, with the government having the right to call on the stored power under certain circumstances. It provides a total of of storage capable of discharge at into the power grid, which is contractually divided into two parts.\n\n70 MW running for 10 minutes (11.7 MWh) is contracted to the government to provide stability to the grid (grid services) and prevent load-shedding blackouts while other generators are started in the event of sudden drops in wind or other network issues. This service has reduced the cost of grid services to the Australian Energy Market Operator by 90%.\n\n30 MW for 3 hours (90 MWh) is used by Neoen for load management to store energy when prices are low and sell it when demand is high. \n\nThe battery construction was completed and testing began on 25 November 2017. It was connected to the grid on 1 December 2017. This easily beat Elon Musk's wager of \"100 days from contract signature\", which started when a grid connection agreement was signed with ElectraNet on 29 September 2017. Tesla had already begun construction, and some units were already operational by the time the contract was signed. \n\nOn 14 December 2017, at 1:58:59 am, the HPR reacted when unit A3 at Loy Yang Power Station tripped. As its generators spun down over the next 30 seconds, the loss of its 560 MW of base power caused a dip in the system frequency. By 1:59:19, the frequency had fallen to 49.8 Hz, and triggered HPR's response, injecting 7.3 MW into the grid and effectively helping to stabilise the system before the Gladstone Power Station was able to respond at 1:59:27. This synchronverter reaction is a built-in feature, but had not previously been effectively demonstrated\n\nDuring two days in January 2018 when the wholesale spot price for electricity in South Australia rose due to hot weather, the battery made its owners an estimated () as they sold power from the battery to the grid for a price of around /MWh. Based on the first six months of operation, the reserve is estimated to earn about per year. (This is an third-party estimate, based on spot energy prices; it is possible that the HPR has contracted to provide power at a lower price, in exchange for a more certain income stream.)\n\nAfter six months of operation, the Hornsdale Power Reserve was responsible for 55% of frequency control and ancillary services in South Australia.\n"}
{"id": "10942190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10942190", "title": "Inlay", "text": "Inlay\n\nInlay covers a range of techniques in sculpture and the decorative arts for inserting pieces of contrasting, often coloured materials into depressions in a base object to form ornament or pictures that normally are flush with the matrix. A great range of materials have been used both for the base or matrix and for the inlays inserted into it. Inlay is commonly used in the production of decorative furniture, where pieces of coloured wood, precious metals or even diamonds are inserted into the surface of the carcass using various matrices including clearcoats and varnishes. Lutherie inlays are frequently used as decoration and marking on musical instruments, particularly the smaller strings.\n\nPerhaps the most famous example of furniture inlay is that of Andre-Charles Boulle (11 November 1642 – 28 February 1732) which is known as Boulle Work and evolved in part from inlay produced in Italy during the late 15th century at the \"Studiolo\" for Federico da Montefeltro in his Ducal Palace at Urbino, in which \"trompe-l'oeil\" shelving seems to carry books, papers, curios and mathematical instruments, in eye-deceiving perspective. The similar private study made for him at Gubbio is now in the Metropolitan Museum of Art.\n\nIn a wood matrix, inlays commonly use wood veneers, but other materials like shells, mother-of-pearl, horn or ivory may also be used. Pietre dure, or coloured stones inlaid in white or black marbles, and inlays of precious metals in a base metal matrix are other forms of inlay. Master craftsmen who make custom knives continue a tradition of ancient techniques of inlaying precious metals; additionally, many new techniques which use contemporary tools have also been developed and utilized as well by artisans.\n\nIntarsia inlay in wood furniture differs from marquetry, a similar technique that largely replaced it in high-style European furniture during the 17th century, in that marquetry is an assembly of veneers applied over the entire surface of an object, whereas inlay consists of small pieces inserted on the bed of cut spaces in the base material, of which most remains visible.\n\nThe history of inlay is very old but it is still evolving alongside new technologies and new materials being discovered today. The technique of metal in metal inlay was sophisticated and accomplished in ancient China as shown in examples of vessels decorated with precious metals including this ding vessel (pictured) with gold and silver inlay from the Warring States period (403-221 BC).\n\nThe French cabinet maker Andre-Charles Boulle (1642-1732) specialised in furniture using inlays or metal and either wood or tortoiseshell together, the latter acting as the background. This type of inlay is known as \"Boulle Work\".\n\nAfter learning the skill of smithing from the Navaho in 1872, the Zuni silversmiths cut small chips from crystals and gemstones, pearl shell and coral, to make inlay designs in a base of silver.\n\nIn 1990, Vivienne Westwood was inspired by Boulle Work, the inlay of precious metals into or onto wood to create a collection with inlay in the manner of André-Charles Boulle \n\nIn 2016, a subsidiary company of Jean-Raymond Boulle discovered and has filed a patent for a new type of diamond inlay in keeping with Boulle Work, subsequently produced by AkzoNobel for application on cars, planes and yachts.\n\nPietra dura is the usual term in Europe for detailed inlays in contrasting colours of stones, including many semi-precious types; \"parchin kari\" is an Indian term. Pietra dura developed from the Roman Opus sectile, which was typically used on a larger scale, especially in floors. Cosmatesque work on walls and floors, and smaller objects, was a medieval intermediate stage, continuing ancient opus alexandrinum.\n\nInlaid artefacts have come down to us from the Ancient Mayan civilisation, among them, jade, mother of pearl and onyx inlaid into stone during the era that arts reached a peak during the seven centuries from 200 to 900 AD.\n\nVivienne Westwood created her Portrait Collection based on the furniture of Andre Charles Boulle.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22509369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22509369", "title": "Iron phosphide", "text": "Iron phosphide\n\nIron phosphide is a chemical compound of iron and phosphorus, with a formula of FeP. Its physical appearance is grey, hexagonal needles.\n\nManufacturing of iron phosphide takes place at elevated temperatures, where the elements combine directly. Iron phosphide reacts with moisture and acids producing phosphine (PH), a toxic and pyrophoric gas.\n\nIron phosphide can be used as a semiconductor. It has use in high power, high frequency applications, such as laser diodes.\n\nIron phosphide is a hazardous substance.\n\nProper eye protection such as goggles should always be used when handling iron phosphide. It can be very harmful to the eyes, especially for individuals wearing contact lenses. Contact lenses have been known to react poorly with iron phosphide due to its corrosive properties, but the scientific world does not all agree on the use of contact lenses in association with iron phosphide.\n\nIn case of inhalation, the person should be moved to fresh air or given artificial respiration if not breathing. In case of ingestion, the person's mouth should be rinsed with water unless unconscious. In case of eye contact, immediate eye flushing is necessary. \n"}
{"id": "18745845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18745845", "title": "Kaliningrad Nuclear Power Plant", "text": "Kaliningrad Nuclear Power Plant\n\nThe Kaliningrad Nuclear Power Plant (also referred as Baltic Nuclear Power Plant (NPP) or Baltiiskaya NPP, ) is a nuclear power plant under construction south-east of Neman, in Kaliningrad Oblast, Russia. It is seen as a counter-project to the plan to build the Visaginas nuclear power plant in Lithuania and is considered not only as an energy, but also as a geopolitical project. In June 2013 the construction was temporary stopped for the project to be redesigned.\n\nThe nuclear power plant is foreseen to secure power supply for the Kaliningrad Oblast and to replace natural gas-based power generation. It has been mentioned that the Kaliningrad Oblast needs the project \"because for the time being it imports energy from NATO countries.\" The excess electricity was planned to be exported into the EU market. According to Sergey Boyarkin, deputy general director of Rosenergoatom, the first reactor would be sufficient for Kaliningrad Oblast's needs, while electricity produced by the second reactor would be exported when not filling gaps in generation caused by refuelling and downtime. Lithuania, Poland and Germany were named as potential export markets.\n\nSergey Boyarkin has said that the shutdown of Ignalina Nuclear Power Plant combined with Polish plans to scrap coal-fired generation in compliance with environmental regulation means that the Baltic region faces an energy crisis by 2015. He also has said that Kaliningrad Oblast will be isolated from electricity supplies from Russia if the Baltic states de-synchronize themselves from the Russian electricity grid and join the synchronous grid of Continental Europe (ENTSO-E grid). He also mentioned technical complications and unreliability in electricity transfer from Smolensk Nuclear Power Plant, the main supplier of Kaliningrad Oblast, via Belarus and Lithuania.\n\nOn the other hand, the project has been seen as a counter-project to the Visaginas nuclear power plant project in Lithuania. Russia invited Lithuania to participate in the project, instead of building the nuclear power plant in Lithuania.\n\nA framework construction agreement was signed between the head of Rosatom Sergei Kiriyenko and Governor of Kaliningrad Oblast Georgy Boos on 16 April 2008. Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin signed the order for construction of the 2,300 MW plant in September 2009. Ground preparation works started on 25 February 2010. The first concrete was scheduled to be laid in April 2011, but was delayed until February 2012.\n\nOn 4 June 2013, an order of Atomenergoproject, dated 30 May 2013 and published on 4 June 2013, ordered a series of staffing and budgeting overhauls \"in connection with the mothballing of the Baltic NPP and NIAEP budget adjustments for 2013.\" It was later said that the project will be temporary stopped to reconsider the project's design in case there will be no export to the European Union. On 4 July 2013, Sergey Kiriyenko, head of Rosatom, announced that both units will be built like previously planned, with two VVER-1200 and no smaller reactor.\n\nThe original design had foreseen two VVER-1200/491 pressurized water reactors in an AES-2006 standard design configuration. The reactors have a capacity of 1150 MWe each and would be supplied by Atomstroyexport.\n\nThe first reactor was planned to be operational by 2017 and the second reactor by 2018. Cost was expected to be around €6.8 billion (US$8.8 billion) Two further reactors could be added in the future depending on economic development in Kaliningrad and in the Baltic region in general.\n\nThe redesigned plan may consist of two reactors by capacity of 640 MW (VVER-640) and 40 MW (KLT-40S). An alternative foresees up to eight reactors by capacity of 40 MW each.\n\nThe project is developed by Rosatom's subsidiary Inter RAO UES. According to Rosatom, 49% of shares in the project will be offered to European companies. This would be the first Russian nuclear power plant with foreign participation. Potential investors named in this context are ČEZ, Enel, and Iberdrola. However, as of June 2013, no foreign partner has joined the project.\n\n"}
{"id": "2594101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2594101", "title": "Langmuir (unit)", "text": "Langmuir (unit)\n\nThe langmuir (symbol: L) is a unit of exposure (or dosage) to a surface (\"e.g.\" of a crystal) and is used in ultra-high vacuum (UHV) surface physics to study the adsorption of gases. It is a practical unit, and is not dimensionally homogeneous, and so is only used in this one field. It is named after American physicist Irving Langmuir.\n\nThe langmuir is defined by multiplying the pressure of the gas by the time of exposure. One langmuir corresponds to an exposure of 10 Torr during one second. For example, exposing a surface to a gas pressure of 10 Torr for 100 seconds corresponds to 1 L.\nSimilarly, keeping the pressure of oxygen gas at 2.5·10 Torr for 40 seconds will give a dose of 100 L.\n\nExposure of a surface in surface physics is a type of fluence, that is the integral of number flux (\"J\") with respect to exposed time (\"t\") to give a number of particles per unit area (\"Φ\"):\n\nThe number flux for an ideal gas, that is the number of gas molecules passing through (in a single direction) a surface of unit area in unit time, can be derived from kinetic theory:\n\nwhere \"C\" is the number density of the gas, and formula_3 is the mean speed of the molecules (\"not\" the root-mean-square speed, although the two are related). The number density of an ideal gas depends the thermodynamic temperature (\"T\") and the pressure (\"p\"):\n\nThe mean speed of the gas molecules can also be derived from kinetic theory:\n\nwhere \"m\" is the mass of a gas molecule. Hence\n\nThe proportionality between number flux and pressure is only strictly valid for a given temperature and a given molecular mass of adsorbing gas. However, the dependence is only on the square roots of \"m\" and \"T\". Gas adsorption experiments typically operate around ambient temperature with light gases, and so the langmuir remains useful as a practical unit.\n\nAssuming that every gas molecule hitting the surface sticks to it (that is, the sticking coefficient is 1), one langmuir (1 L) leads to a coverage of about one monolayer of the adsorbed gas molecules on the surface. In general, the sticking coefficient varies depending on the reactivity of the surface and the molecules, so that the langmuir gives a lower limit of the time it needs to completely cover a surface. \n\nThis also illustrates why ultra-high vacuum (UHV) must be used to study solid-state surfaces, nanostructures or even single molecules. The typical time to perform physical experiments on sample surfaces is in the range of one to several hours. In order to keep the surface free of contaminations, the pressure of the residual gas in a UHV chamber should be below 10 Torr.\n"}
{"id": "37175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37175", "title": "Lars Onsager", "text": "Lars Onsager\n\nLars Onsager (November 27, 1903 – October 5, 1976) was a Norwegian-born American physical chemist and theoretical physicist. He held the Gibbs Professorship of Theoretical Chemistry at Yale University. He was awarded the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1968.\n\nLars Onsager was born in Kristiania (now Oslo), Norway. His father was a lawyer. After completing secondary school in Oslo, he attended the Norwegian Institute of Technology (NTH) in Trondheim, graduating as a chemical engineer in 1925.\n\nIn 1925 he arrived at a correction to the Debye-Hückel theory of electrolytic solutions, to specify Brownian movement of ions in solution, and during 1926 published it. He traveled to Zürich, where Peter Debye was teaching, and confronted Debye, telling him his theory was wrong. He impressed Debye so much that he was invited to become Debye's assistant at the Eidgenössische Technische Hochschule (ETH), where he remained until 1928.\n\nEventually in 1928 he went to the United States to take a faculty position at the Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore, Maryland. At JHU he had to teach freshman classes in chemistry, and it quickly became apparent that, while he was a genius at developing theories in physical chemistry, he had little talent for teaching. He was dismissed by JHU after one semester.\n\nOn leaving JHU, he accepted a position (involving the teaching of statistical mechanics to graduate students in chemistry) at Brown University in Providence, Rhode Island, where it became clear that he was no better at teaching advanced students than freshmen, but he made significant contributions to statistical mechanics and thermodynamics. The only graduate student who could really understand his lectures on electrolyte systems, Raymond Fuoss, worked under him and eventually joined him on the Yale chemistry faculty. \nIn 1933, when the Great Depression limited Brown's ability to support a faculty member who was only useful as a researcher and not a teacher, he was let go by Brown, being hired after a trip to Europe by Yale University, where he remained for most of the rest of his life, retiring in 1972.\n\nHis research at Brown was concerned mainly with the effects on diffusion of temperature gradients, and produced the Onsager reciprocal relations, a set of equations published in 1929 and, in an expanded form, in 1931, in statistical mechanics whose importance went unrecognized for many years. However, their value became apparent during the decades following World War II, and by 1968 they were considered important enough to gain Onsager that year's Nobel Prize in Chemistry. In 1933, just before taking up the position at Yale, Onsager traveled to Austria to visit electrochemist Hans Falkenhagen. He met Falkenhagen's sister-in-law, Margrethe Arledter. They were married on September 7, 1933, and had three sons and a daughter.\n\nAt Yale, an embarrassing situation occurred: he had been hired as a postdoctoral fellow, but it was discovered that he had never received a Ph.D. While he had submitted an outline of his work in reciprocal relations to the Norwegian Institute of Technology, they had decided it was too incomplete to qualify as a doctoral dissertation. He was told that he could submit one of his published papers to the Yale faculty as a dissertation, but insisted on doing a new research project instead. His dissertation, entitled, \"Solutions of the Mathieu equation of period 4 pi and certain related functions\", was beyond the comprehension of the chemistry and physics faculty, and only when some members of the mathematics department, including the chairman, insisted that the work was good enough that \"they\" would grant the doctorate if the chemistry department would not, was he granted a Ph.D. in chemistry in 1935. Even before the dissertation was finished, he was appointed assistant professor in 1934, and promoted to associate professor in 1940. He quickly showed at Yale the same traits he had at JHU and Brown: he produced brilliant theoretical research, but was incapable of giving a lecture at a level that a student (even a graduate student) could comprehend. He was also unable to direct the research of graduate students, except for the occasional outstanding one.\n\nDuring the late 1930s, Onsager researched the dipole theory of dielectrics, making improvements for another topic that had been studied by Peter Debye. However, when he submitted his paper to a journal that Debye edited in 1936, it was rejected. Debye would not accept Onsager's ideas until after World War II. During the 1940s, Onsager studied the statistical-mechanical theory of phase transitions in solids, deriving a mathematically elegant theory which was enthusiastically received. In what is widely considered a tour de force of mathematical physics, he obtained the exact solution for the two dimensional Ising model in zero field in 1944.\n\nIn 1960 he was awarded an honorary degree, doctor techn. honoris causa, at the Norwegian Institute of Technology, later part of Norwegian University of Science and Technology.\n\nIn 1945, Onsager was naturalized as an American citizen, and the same year he was awarded the title of \"J. Willard Gibbs Professor of Theoretical Chemistry\". This was particularly appropriate because Onsager, like Willard Gibbs, had been involved primarily in the application of mathematics to problems in physics and chemistry and, in a sense, could be considered to be continuing in the same areas Gibbs had pioneered.\nIn 1947, he was elected to the National Academy of Sciences, and in 1950 he joined the ranks of Alpha Chi Sigma.\n\nAfter World War II, Onsager researched new topics of interest. \nHe proposed a theoretical explanation of the superfluid properties of liquid helium in 1949; two years later the physicist Richard Feynman independently proposed the same theory. He also worked on the theories of liquid crystals and the electrical properties of ice. While on a Fulbright scholarship to the University of Cambridge, he worked on the magnetic properties of metals. He developed important ideas on the quantization of magnetic flux in metals. He was awarded the Lorentz Medal in 1958, Willard Gibbs Award in 1962, and the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1968. He was elected a Foreign Member of the Royal Society (ForMemRS) in 1975.\n\nIn 1972 Onsager retired from Yale and became emeritus. He then became a member of the Center for Theoretical Studies, University of Miami, and was appointed Distinguished University Professor of Physics. At the University of Miami he remained active in guiding and inspiring postdoctoral students as his teaching skills, although not his lecturing skills, had improved during the course of his career. He developed interests in semiconductor physics, biophysics and radiation chemistry. However, his death came before he could produce any breakthroughs comparable to those of his earlier years.\n\nHe remained in Florida until his death from an aneurysm in Coral Gables, Florida in 1976. Onsager was buried next to John Gamble Kirkwood at New Haven's Grove Street Cemetery. While Kirkwood's tombstone has a long list of awards and positions, including the American Chemical Society Award in Pure Chemistry, the Richards Medal, and the Lewis Award, Onsager's tombstone, in its original form, simply said \"Nobel Laureate\". When Onsager's wife Gretel died in 1991 and was buried there, his children added an asterisk after \"Nobel Laureate,\" and \"*etc.\" in the lower right corner of the stone.\n\nThe Norwegian Institute of Technology established the Lars Onsager Lecture and The Lars Onsager Professorship in 1993 to award outstanding scientists in the scientific fields of Lars Onsager; Chemistry, Physics and Mathematics. In 1997 his sons and daughter donated his scientific works and professional belongings to NTNU (before 1996 NTH) in Trondheim, Norway as his Alma Mater. These are now organized as \"The Lars Onsager Archive\" at the Gunnerus Library in Trondheim.\n\n"}
{"id": "26629446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26629446", "title": "List of Lepidoptera that feed on Carpinus", "text": "List of Lepidoptera that feed on Carpinus\n\nHornbeams (\"Carpinus\" species) are used as food plants by the larvae (caterpillars) of a number of Lepidoptera species, including the following. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2067016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2067016", "title": "Lithium tantalate", "text": "Lithium tantalate\n\nLithium tantalate (LiTaO) is a perovskite which possesses unique optical, piezoelectric and pyroelectric properties which make it valuable for nonlinear optics, passive infrared sensors such as motion detectors, terahertz generation and detection, surface acoustic wave applications, cell phones and possibly pyroelectric nuclear fusion. Considerable information is available from commercial sources about this salt.\n\nAccording to an April 2005 \"Nature\" article, Brian Naranjo, Jim Gimzewski and Seth Putterman at UCLA applied a large temperature difference to a lithium tantalate crystal producing a large enough charge to generate and accelerate a beam of deuterium nuclei into a deuteriated target resulting in the production of a small flux of helium-3 and neutrons through nuclear fusion without extreme heat or pressure. Their results have been replicated.\n\nIt is unlikely to be useful for electricity generation since the energy required to produce the fusion reactions exceeded the energy produced by them. It is thought that the technique might be useful for small neutron generators, especially if the deuterium beam is replaced by a tritium one. Comparing this with the electrostatic containment of ionic plasma to achieve fusion in a \"fusor\" or other IEC, this method focuses electrical acceleration to a much smaller non-ionized deuterium target without heat.\n\nA scientific paper published in February 2010 shows a difference in the temperature and mechanism of freezing water to ice, depending on the charge applied to a surface of pyroelectric LiTaO crystals.\n\n"}
{"id": "54289331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54289331", "title": "Mathesiusite", "text": "Mathesiusite\n\nMathesiusite is a sulfate mineral containing potassium, vanadium, and uranium and has the chemical formula: K(UO)(SO)(VO)·4(HO). It is a secondary mineral formed during post-mining processes.\n\nIt was discovered in Jáchymov mining district, Czech Republic and named in 2013 after Johannes Mathesius (1504–1565), who studied minerals from the area (known then as Joachimsthal, Bohemia).\n\n"}
{"id": "32018036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32018036", "title": "Mechanism of sonoluminescence", "text": "Mechanism of sonoluminescence\n\nSonoluminescence is a phenomenon that occurs when a small gas bubble is acoustically suspended and periodically driven in a liquid solution at ultrasonic frequencies, resulting in bubble collapse, cavitation, and light emission. The thermal energy that is released from the bubble collapse is so great that it can cause weak light emission. The mechanism of the light emission remains uncertain, but some of the current theories, which are categorized under either thermal or electrical processes, are Bremsstrahlung radiation, argon rectification hypothesis, and hot spot. Some researchers are beginning to favor thermal process explanations as temperature differences have consistently been observed with different methods of spectral analysis. In order to understand the light emission mechanism, it is important to know what is happening in the bubble's interior and at the bubble's surface. \n\nPrior to the early 1990s, the studies on different chemical and physical variables of sonoluminescence were all conducted using multi-bubble sonoluminescence (MBSL). This was a problem since all of the theories and bubble dynamics were based on single bubble sonoluminescence (SBSL) and researchers believed that the bubble oscillations of neighboring bubbles could affect each other. Single bubble sonoluminescence wasn't achieved until the early 1990s and allowed the study of the effects of various parameters on a single cavitating bubble. After many of the early theories were disproved, the remaining plausible theories can be classified into two different processes: electrical and thermal.\n\nSBSL emits more light than MBSL due to fewer interactions between neighboring bubbles. Another advantage for SBSL is that a single bubble collapses without being affected by other surrounding bubbles, allowing more accurate studies on acoustic cavitation and sonoluminescence theories. Some exotic theories have been made, for example from Schwinger in 1992 who hinted the dynamical Casimir effect as a potential photon-emission process. Several theories say that the location of light emission is in the liquid instead of inside the bubble. Other SBSL theories explain that the emission of photons due to the high temperatures in the bubble are analogical to the hot spot theories of MBSL. Regarding the thermal emission a large variety of different processes are prevalent. Because temperatures are increasing from several hundred to many thousand kelvin during collapse, the processes can be molecular recombination, collision-induced emission, molecular emission, excimers, atomic recombination, radiative attachments of ions, neutral and ion Bremsstrahlung, or emission from confined electrons in voids. Which of these theories applies depends on accurate measurements and calculations of the temperature inside the bubble.\n\nUnlike single-bubble sonoluminescence, multi-bubble sonoluminescence is the creation of many oscillating and collapsing bubbles. Typically in MBSL, the light emission from each individual bubble is weaker than in SBSL because the neighboring bubbles can interact and affect each other. Because each neighboring bubble can interact with each other, it can make it more difficult to produce accurate studies and to characterize the properties of the collapsing bubble.\n\nOne of the greatest obstacles in sonoluminescence research has been trying to obtain measurements of the interior of the bubble. Most measurements, like temperature and pressure, are indirectly measured using models and bubble dynamics.\n\nSome of the developed theories about the mechanism of SBSL result in prognoses for the peak temperature from 6000 K to 20,000 K. What they all have in common is, a) the interior of the bubble heats up and becomes at least as hot as that measured for MBSL, b) water vapor is the main temperature-limiting factor and c) the averaged temperature over the bubble does not rise higher than 10,000 K.\n\nThese equations were made using five major assumptions, with four of them being common to all the equations:\nThe fifth assumption, which changes between each formulation, pertains to the thermodynamic behavior of the liquid surrounding the bubble. These assumptions severely limit the models when the pulsations are large and the wall velocities reach the speed of sound.\n\nThe Keller-Miksis formulation is an equation derived for the large, radial oscillations of a bubble trapped in a sound field. When the frequency of the sound field approaches the natural frequency of the bubble, it will result in large amplitude oscillations. The Keller-Miksis equation takes into account the viscosity, surface tension, incident sound wave, and acoustic radiation coming from the bubble, which was previously unaccounted for in Lauterborn's calculations. Lauterborn solved the equation that Plesset, \"et al.\" modified from Rayleigh's original analysis of large oscillating bubbles. Keller and Miksis obtained the following formula:\n\nformula_1\n\nwhere formula_2 is the radius of the bubble, the dots indicate first and second time derivatives, formula_3 is the density of the liquid, formula_4 is the speed of sound through the liquid, formula_5 is the pressure on the liquid side of the bubble's interface, formula_6 is time, and formula_7 is the time-delayed driving pressure.\n\nProsperetti found a way to accurately determine the internal pressure of the bubble using the following equation.\n\nformula_8\n\nwhere formula_9 is the temperature, formula_10 is the thermal conductivity of the gas, and formula_11 is the radial distance.\n\nThis formulation allows the study of the motions and the effects of heat conduction, shear viscosity, compressibility, and surface tension on small cavitation bubbles in liquids that are set into motion by an acoustic pressure field. The effect of vapor pressure on the cavitation bubble can also be determined using the interfacial temperature. The formulation is specifically designed to describe the motion of a bubble that expands to a maximum radius and then violently collapses or contracts. This set of equations was solved using an improved Euler method.\n\nformula_12\n\nwhere formula_2 is the radius of the bubble, the dots indicate first and second time derivatives, formula_3 is the density of the liquid, formula_4 is the speed of sound through the liquid, formula_16 is the pressure on the liquid side of the bubble's interface, formula_6 is time, and formula_18 is the driving pressure.\n\nThe theory of bubble dynamics was started in 1917 by Lord Rayleigh during his work with the Royal Navy to investigate cavitation damage on ship propellers. Over several decades his work was refined and developed by Milton Plesset, Andrea Prosperetti, and others. The Rayleigh-Plesset equation is:\n\nformula_19\n\nwhere formula_2 is the bubble radius, formula_21 is the second order derivative of the bubble radius with respect to time, formula_22 is the first order derivative of the bubble radius with respect to time, formula_3 is the density of the liquid, formula_24 is the pressure in the gas (which is assumed to be uniform), formula_25 is the background static pressure, formula_26 is the sinusoidal driving pressure, formula_27 is the viscosity of the liquid, and formula_28 is the surface tension of the gas-liquid interface.\n\nThe surface of a collapsing bubble like those seen in both SBSL and MBSL serves as a boundary layer between the liquid and vapor phases of the solution.\n\nMBSL has been observed in many different solutions under a variety of conditions. Unfortunately it is more difficult to study as the bubble cloud is uneven and can contain a wide range of pressures and temperatures. SBSL is easier to study due to the predictable nature of the bubble. This bubble is sustained in a standing acoustic wave of moderate pressure, approximately 1.5 atm. Since cavitation does not normally occur at these pressures the bubble may be seeded through several techniques:\nThe standing acoustic wave, which contains pressure antinodes at the center of the containment vessel, causes the bubbles to quickly coalesce into a single radially oscillating bubble.\n\nOnce a single bubble is stabilized in the pressure antinode of the standing wave, it can be made to emit pulses of light by driving the bubble into highly nonlinear oscillations. This is done by the increasing pressure of the acoustic wave to disrupt the steady, linear growth of the bubble which cause the bubble to collapse in a runaway reaction that only reverts due to the high pressures inside the bubble at its minimum radius.\n\nThe collapsed bubble expands due to high internal pressure and experiences a diminishing effect until the high pressure antinode returns to the center of the vessel. The bubble continues to occupy more or less the same space due to the acoustic radiation force, the Bjerknes force, and the buoyancy force of the bubble.\n\nThe effect that different chemicals present in solution have to the velocity of the collapsing bubble has recently been studied. Nonvolatile liquids such as sulfuric and phosphoric acid have been shown to produce flashes of light several nanoseconds in duration with a much slower bubble wall velocity, and producing several thousand-fold greater light emission. This effect is probably masked in SBSL in aqueous solutions by the absorption of light by water molecules and contaminants.\n\nIt can be inferred from these results that the difference in surface tension between these different compounds is the source of different spectra emitted and the time scales in which emission occur.\n\nThe inertia of a collapsing bubble generates high pressures and temperatures capable of ionizing a small fraction of the noble gas within the volume of the bubble. This small fraction of ionized gas is transparent and allows for volume emission to be detected. Free electrons from the ionized noble gas begin to interact with other neutral atoms causing thermal bremsstrahlung radiation. Surface emission emits a more intense flash of light with a longer duration and is dependent on wavelength. Experimental data suggest that only volume emission occurs in the case of sonoluminescence. As the sound wave reaches a low energy trough the bubble expands and electrons are able to recombine with free ions and halt light emission. Light pulse time is dependent on the ionization energy of the noble gas with argon having a light pulse of 160 picoseconds.\n\nIn 1937, the explanations for the light emission have favored electrical discharges. The first ideas have been about the charge separation in cavitation bubbles, which have been seen as spherical capacitors with charges at the center and the wall. \nAt the collapse, the capacitance decreases and voltage increases until electric breakdown occurs. A further suggestion was a charge separation by enhancing charge fluctuations on the bubble wall, however, a breakdown should take place during the expansion phase of the bubble dynamics. \nThese discharge theories have to assume that the emitting bubble undergoes an asymmetric collapse, because a symmetric charge distribution cannot radiate light.\n\nBecause the bubble collapse occurs within microseconds, the hot spot theory states that the thermal energy results from an adiabatic bubble collapse. In 1950 it was assumed that the bubble internal temperatures were as high as 10,000 K at the collapse of a spherical symmetric bubble. In the 1990s, sonoluminescence spectra were used by Suslick to measure effective emission temperatures in bubble clouds (multibubble sonoluminescence) of 5000 K, and more recently temperatures as high as 20,000 K in single bubble cavitation.\n\nThe limit for the ambient size of the bubble is set by the appearance of instabilities in the shape of the oscillating bubble.\nThe shape stability thresholds depend on changes in the radial dynamics, caused by different liquid viscosities or driving frequencies. If the frequency is decreased, the parametric instability is suppressed as the stabilizing influence of viscosity can appear longer to suppress perturbations. However, the collapses of low-frequency-driven bubbles favor an earlier onset of the Rayleigh-Taylor instability. Larger bubbles can be stabilized to show sonoluminescence when not too high forcing pressures are applied. At low-frequency the water vapor becomes more important. The bubbles can be stabilized by cooling the fluid, whereas more light is emitted.\n\nRecent studies of the timing of the flash in the bubble cycle, have shown that the SL flash can occur 100 nanoseconds before the time of minimum bubble radius. At that moment the bubble wall motion is subsonic, and thermodynamic models imply that internal temperatures and pressures are crossing thru moderate conditions. Thus the \"hammer striking the anvil to create a spark\" model of sonoluminescence may be invalid. Instead the authors note that the same adiabatic models that are successful in modeling bubble motion imply that very cold temperatures can exist in the bubble: During the expansion cycle, the bubble starts near room temperature at its equilibrium radius. At the top of the expansion that follows, the adiabatic model implies that temperatures as low as a 4 Kelvin are reached. This is cold enough to condense most gases and any water vapor present in the bubble. Conservation of energy arguments imply that this meta-stable condensate should contain several MeV of energy. This excitation energy comes from the latent heat contained in the gases just before they condensed. As the bubble shrinks and passes through its equilibrium radius, the condensate will be destroyed and discharge its energy. This model predicts that the each condensate stores an amount of latent heat energy released in the discharge given by the following:\n\nformula_29,\n\nwhere formula_30 is the constant volume heat capacity per mole of the gas in the bubble, formula_31 is the ideal gas constant, formula_32 is the ambient atmospheric pressure, formula_33 is the number of moles of gas in the bubble, and formula_34 is the van der Waals excluded volume per mole. For bubble sizes around 8 to 10 formula_35, this formula predicts that each flash will release about 1 picoJoule (7 MeV) of energy. Calibrated measurements of bubble brightness show that each flash contains about this much energy. Furthermore, this formula predicts that bubbles containing xenon will be brighter than krypton or argon, because of xenon's larger van der Waals excluded volume, an effect which is also observed. High temperatures are achieved once the discharge takes place, but are not seen as the cause of the flash in this model.\n\n"}
{"id": "20013083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20013083", "title": "Opatov Photovoltaics Plant", "text": "Opatov Photovoltaics Plant\n\nThe Opatov Photovoltaics Plant is Czech Republic's largest photovoltaics producing plant having an installed annual capacity of 60 MW of solar cells.\n"}
{"id": "1841288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1841288", "title": "Outline of energy", "text": "Outline of energy\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to energy:\n\nEnergy – in physics, this is an indirectly observed quantity often understood as the ability of a physical system to do work on other physical systems. Since work is defined as a force acting through a distance (a length of space), energy is always equivalent to the ability to exert force (a pull or a push) against an object that is moving along a definite path of certain length.\n\n\nUnits of energy\n\n\nEnergy industry\n\nSee especially and for a large number of conventional energy related topics.\n\n\nHistory of energy\n\n\n\n\n\n\nEnergy economics\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7903382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7903382", "title": "Petroliana", "text": "Petroliana\n\nPetroliana is a category of collectibles that is related to gas stations or the petroleum industry. Petroliana memorabilia include items such as old gas pumps, fuel advertisements, enamel or tin signs, oil cans and tins, and road maps.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3277975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3277975", "title": "Piedmont Environmental Council", "text": "Piedmont Environmental Council\n\nThe Piedmont Environmental Council (PEC) is a Virginia-based charitable environmental organization headquartered in Warrenton, Virginia, United States. PEC's mission is to promote and protect the Piedmont area's rural economy, natural resources, history, and beauty. The organization was founded in 1972. \n\nPEC's service territory includes Albemarle County, Clarke County, Culpeper County, Fauquier County, Greene County, Loudoun County, Madison County, Orange County, Rappahannock County and the City of Charlottesville.\n\n"}
{"id": "47715694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47715694", "title": "Pluto mass", "text": "Pluto mass\n\nPluto mass (\"M\" or \"M\") is the unit of mass equal to that of Pluto. 1 \"M\" = .\n\nOne Pluto mass can be converted to:\n"}
{"id": "42262019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42262019", "title": "Ratle Hydroelectric Plant", "text": "Ratle Hydroelectric Plant\n\nThe Ratle Hydroelectric Plant is a run-of-the-river hydroelectric power station currently under construction on the Chenab River, downstream of the village of Ratle, near Drabshalla in Kishtwar district of the Indian state of Jammu and Kashmir. The project includes a tall gravity dam and two power stations adjacent to one another. Water from the dam will be diverted through four intake tunnels about southwest to the power stations. The main power station will contain four 205 MW Francis turbines and the auxiliary power station will contain one 30 MW Francis turbine. The installed capacity of both power stations will be 850 MW. On 25 June 2013, Prime Minister Manmohan Singh laid the foundation stone for the dam. Pakistan has frequently alleged that it violates the Indus Water Treaty.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "382802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=382802", "title": "Relaxed stability", "text": "Relaxed stability\n\nIn aviation, relaxed stability is the tendency of an aircraft to change its attitude and angle of bank spontaneously. An aircraft with relaxed stability will oscillate in simple harmonic motion around a particular attitude at an increasing amplitude.\n\nThis can be contrasted with the behaviour of an aircraft with positive stability, which, when trimmed to fly at a certain attitude, will continue to do so in the absence of control input, and if perturbed will oscillate in simple harmonic motion on a decreasing scale around and eventually return to the trimmed attitude. A positively stable aircraft will also resist any bank movement. A Cessna 152 is an example of a stable aircraft. Similarly, an aircraft with neutral stability will not return to its trimmed setting without control input, but will oscillate in a stable simple harmonic motion around the trimmed setting continuously, neither increasing nor decreasing oscillation amplitude, and be susceptible to bank influences.\n\nEarly attempts at heavier-than-air flight were marked by a differing concept of stability than is used today. Most aeronautical investigators regarded flight as if it were not so different from surface locomotion, except the surface was elevated. They thought of changing direction in terms of a ship's rudder, so the flying machine would remain essentially level in the air, as did an automobile or a ship at the surface. The idea of deliberately leaning, or rolling, to one side either seemed undesirable or did not enter their thinking.\n\nSome of these early investigators, including Langley, Chanute, and later Santos-Dumont and the Voisin brothers, sought the ideal of \"inherent stability\" in a very strong sense, believing a flying machine should be built to automatically roll to a horizontal (lateral) position after any disturbance. They achieved this with the help of Hargrave cellular wings (wings with a box kite structure, including the vertical panels) and strongly dihedral wings. In most cases they did not include any means for a pilot to control the aircraft roll — they could control only the elevator and rudder. The unpredicted effect of this was that it was very hard to turn the aircraft without rolling. They were also strongly affected by side gusts and side winds upon landing.\n\nThe Wright brothers designed their 1903 first powered Flyer with anhedral (drooping) wings, which are inherently unstable. They showed that a pilot can maintain control of lateral roll and it was a good way for a flying machine to turn—to \"bank\" or \"lean\" into the turn just like a bird or just like a person riding a bicycle. Equally important, this method would enable recovery when the wind tilted the machine to one side. Although used in 1903, it would not become widely known in Europe until August 1908, when Wilbur Wright demonstrated to European aviators the importance of the coordinated use of elevator, rudder and roll control for making effective turns.\n\nThe vertical positioning of the wing changes the roll stability of an aircraft.\n\nThis behavior is often explained through comparison to a pendulum, that is, the fuselage hangs below the wings like a pendulum and its weight keeps the aircraft oriented correctly, but this explanation is incorrect (see Pendulum rocket fallacy).\n\nModern military aircraft, particularly low observable (\"stealth\") designs, often exhibit instability as a result of their shape. The Lockheed F-117 Nighthawk, for instance, employs a highly non-traditional fuselage and wing shape in order to reduce its radar cross section and enable it to penetrate air defenses with relative impunity. However, the flat facets of the design reduce its stability to the point where a computerized fly-by-wire system was required to allow safe operation.\n\nRelaxed stability designs are not limited to military jets. The McDonnell Douglas MD-11 has a relaxed stability design which was implemented to save fuel. To ensure stability for safe flight, an LSAS (Longitudinal Stability Augmentation System) was introduced to compensate for the MD-11's rather short horizontal stabilizer and ensure that the aircraft would remain stable. However, there have been incidents in which the MD-11's relaxed stability caused an \"inflight upset.\"\n\nThe latest generation of fighter aircraft often employ design elements which reduce stability to increase maneuverability. Greater stability leads to lesser control surface authority, therefore a less stable design will have a faster response to control inputs. This is highly sought after in fighter aircraft design. The BAE Harrier GR7/GR9 employs a significant and obvious anhedral angle to its wings, reducing the inherent lateral stability of the wings mounted high on the fuselage.\n\nA less stable aircraft requires smaller control deflections to initiate maneuvering; consequently drag and control surface imposed stresses will be reduced and aircraft responsiveness will be enhanced. Since these characteristics will typically make control by the pilot difficult or impossible, an artificial stability will typically be imposed using computers, servos, and sensors as parts of a fly by wire control system.\n\n"}
{"id": "10266313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10266313", "title": "San Martín Texmelucan", "text": "San Martín Texmelucan\n\nSan Martín Texmelucan de Labastida is a city in the west-central part of the state of Puebla in Mexico, adjacent to the southwest corner of the state of Tlaxcala. It is the municipal seat of the municipality of San Martín Texmelucan. The city is the fifth largest in the state of Puebla, with a 2005 census population of 135500 inhabitants.\n\nOn December 19, 2010, an oil pipeline at a Petroleos Mexicanos (Pemex) pumping station in the city exploded, killing at least 27 people and injuring more than 50. 32 houses were destroyed and several times that many damaged. The explosion is believed to have been caused by attempts to puncture the pipe to steal oil.\n\nNotes\n\n"}
{"id": "31779878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31779878", "title": "Scleria sumatrensis", "text": "Scleria sumatrensis\n\nScleria sumatrensis, commonly known as nutrush and Sumatran scleria, is a plant species in the sedge family. It is native to temperate and tropical Asia (in China, India, Malesia, and Sri Lanka), where it is usually found growing in wetlands, and is considered a noxious weed on the island of Borneo. It has been used in traditional medicine against gonorrhea.\n"}
{"id": "3306631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3306631", "title": "Synchronous condenser", "text": "Synchronous condenser\n\nIn electrical engineering, a synchronous condenser (sometimes called a synchronous capacitor or synchronous compensator) is a DC-excited synchronous motor, whose shaft is not connected to anything but spins freely. Its purpose is not to convert electric power to mechanical power or vice versa, but to adjust conditions on the electric power transmission grid. Its field is controlled by a voltage regulator to either generate or absorb reactive power as needed to adjust the grid's voltage, or to improve power factor. The condenser’s installation and operation are identical to large electric motors and generators.\n\nIncreasing the device's field excitation results in its furnishing reactive power (measured in units of var) to the system. Its principal advantage is the ease with which the amount of correction can be adjusted. The kinetic energy stored in the rotor of the machine can help stabilize a power system during rapid fluctuations of loads such as those created by short circuits or electric arc furnaces. Large installations of synchronous condensers are sometimes used in association with high-voltage direct current converter stations to supply reactive power to the alternating current grid. \n\nUnlike a capacitor bank, the amount of reactive power from a synchronous condenser can be continuously adjusted. Reactive power from a capacitor bank decreases when grid voltage decreases, while a synchronous condenser can increase reactive current as voltage decreases. However, synchronous machines have higher energy losses than static capacitor banks. Most synchronous condensers connected to electrical grids are rated between 20 MVAR (megavar) and 200 MVAR and many are hydrogen cooled. There is no explosion hazard as long as the hydrogen concentration is maintained above 70%, typically above 91%.\n\nA rotating coil in a magnetic field tends to produce a sine-wave voltage. When connected to a circuit some current will flow depending on how the voltage on the system is different from this open-circuit voltage. Note that mechanical torque (produced by a motor, required by a generator) corresponds only to the real power. Reactive power does not result in any torque.\n\nAs the mechanical load on a synchronous motor increases, the stator current I increases regardless of the field excitation. For both under and over excited motors, the power factor (p.f.) tends to approach unity with increase in mechanical load. This change in power factor is larger than the change in I with increase in load.\n\nThe phase of armature current varies with field excitation. The current has larger values for lower and higher values of excitation. In between, the current has minimum value corresponding to a particular excitation (see graph on right). The variations of \"I\" with excitation are known as V curves because of their shape.\n\nFor the same mechanical load, the armature current varies with field excitation over a wide range and so causes the power factor also to vary accordingly. When over-excited, the motor runs with leading power factor (and supplies vars to the grid) and when under-excited with lagging power factor (and absorbs vars from the grid). In between, the power factor is unity. The minimum armature current corresponds to the point of unity power factor (voltage and current in phase).\n\nAs in a synchronous motor, the stator of the machine is connected to a three-phase supply of voltage Vs (assumed to be constant), and this creates a rotating magnetic field within the machine. Likewise, the rotor is excited with a DC current (Ie) to act as an electromagnet. In normal operation the rotor magnet follows the stator field at synchronous speed. The rotating electromagnet induces a three-phase voltage (Vg) in the stator windings as if the machine were a synchronous generator. If the machine is considered to be ideal, with no mechanical, magnetic, or electrical losses, its equivalent circuit will be an AC generator in series with the winding inductance (L) of the stator. The magnitude of Vg depends on the excitation current (Ie) and the speed of rotation, and as the latter is fixed, Vg depends only on Ie. If Ie is critically adjusted to a value Ie0, Vg will be equal and opposite to Vs, and the current in the stator (Is) will be zero. This corresponds to the minimum in the curve shown above. If, however, Ie is increased above Ie0, Vg will exceed Vs, and the difference is accounted for by a voltage (Vl) appearing across the stator inductance L: Vl = Is x Xl where Xl is the stator reactance. Now the stator current (Is) is no longer zero. Since the machine is ideal, Vg, Vl and Vs will all be in phase, and Is will be entirely reactive (i.e. in phase quadrature). Viewed from the supply side of the machine's terminals, a negative reactive current will flow out of the terminals, and the machine will therefore appear as a capacitor, the magnitude of whose reactance will fall as Ir increases above Is0. If Ie is adjusted to be less than Ie0, Vs will exceed Vg, and a positive reactive current will flow into the machine. The machine will then appear as an inductor whose reactance falls as Ie is reduced further. These conditions correspond to the two rising arms of the V-curves (above). In a practical machine with losses, the equivalent circuit will contain a resistor in parallel with the terminals to represent mechanical and magnetic losses, and another resistor in series with the generator and L, representing copper losses in the stator. Thus in a practical machine Is will contain a small in-phase component, and will not fall to zero.\n\nAn over-excited synchronous motor has a leading power factor. This makes it useful for power factor correction of industrial loads. Both transformers and induction motors draw lagging (magnetising) currents from the line. On light loads, the power drawn by induction motors has a large reactive component and the power factor has a low value. The added current flowing to supply reactive power creates additional losses in the power system. In an industrial plant, synchronous motors can be used to supply some of the reactive power required by induction motors. This improves the plant power factor and reduces the reactive current required from the grid. \n\nA synchronous condenser provides step-less automatic power factor correction with the ability to produce up to 150% additional vars. The system produces no switching transients and is not affected by system electrical harmonics (some harmonics can even be absorbed by synchronous condensers). They will not produce excessive voltage levels and are not susceptible to electrical resonances. Because of the rotating inertia of the synchronous condenser, it can provide limited voltage support during very short power drops.\n\nThe use of rotating synchronous condensers was common through the 1950s. They remain an alternative (or a supplement) to capacitors for power factor correction because of problems that have been experienced with harmonics causing capacitor overheating and catastrophic failures. Synchronous condensers are also useful for supporting voltage levels. The reactive power produced by a capacitor bank is in direct proportion to the square of its terminal voltage, and if the system voltage decreases, the capacitors produce less reactive power, when it is most needed, while if the system voltage increases the capacitors produce more reactive power, which exacerbates the problem. In contrast, with a constant field, a synchronous condenser naturally supplies more reactive power to a low voltage and absorbs more reactive power from a high voltage, plus the field can be controlled. This reactive power improves voltage regulation in situations such as when starting large motors, or where power must travel long distances from where it is generated to where it is used, as is the case with \"power wheeling\", the transmission of electric power from one geographic region to another within a set of interconnected electric power systems.\n\nSynchronous condensers may also be referred to as \"Dynamic Power Factor Correction\" systems. These machines can prove very effective when advanced controls are utilized. A PLC based controller with PF controller and regulator will allow the system to be set to meet a given power factor or can be set to produce a specified amount of reactive power.\n\nOn electric power systems, synchronous condensers can be used to control the voltage on long transmission lines, especially for lines with a relatively high ratio of inductive reactance to resistance.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13794111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13794111", "title": "Syndite", "text": "Syndite\n\nSyndite is a composite material which combines the hardness, abrasion resistance and thermal conductivity of diamond with the toughness of tungsten carbide. \n\n\n\nSyndite is produced in five standard grades:\n\n\nThe numbers refer to the average dimensions in micrometres of the starting diamond material. The designation CTB indicates standard Polycrystalline diamond (PCD) products, whereas CTC and CTH indicate modified PCD grades. Syndite CTB010 may, in most cases, be regarded as the general-purpose grade.\n\n"}
{"id": "41690400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41690400", "title": "Trailer tail", "text": "Trailer tail\n\nA trailer tail, boat tail, or rear fairing is an aerodynamic device intended to improve the fuel economy of semi-trailer trucks. It comprises a set of panels, usually collapsible, which fold out from the rear of the trailer, creating a tapered shape that reduces drag from the low-pressure wake created behind the trailer. Trailer tails are one form of aerodynamic technology verified by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's SmartWay Transport Partnership. Trailer tails alone have demonstrated a fuel savings of 1%–5%, and in concert with trailer skirts, 9% improvement has been demonstrated.\n\nTrailerTail is a registered trademark of STEMCO.\n\nA U.S. patent was issued on August 30, 1898 to a George J. Capewell for an \"air-resistance device for railway-vehicles\" which \"can be attached to any locomotive, motor-car, or similar vehicle\".\n\nAt least one model of trailer tail, trade named TrailerTail, is part of Navistar's SuperTruck project, which will use $37 million of US Department of Energy grants to build next generation trucks and tractor trailers.\n"}
{"id": "456161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=456161", "title": "Tropical climate", "text": "Tropical climate\n\nA tropical climate in the Köppen climate classification is a non-arid climate in which all twelve months have mean temperatures of warmer than . In tropical climates there are often only two seasons: a wet season and a dry season. Tropical climates are frost-free, and changes in the solar angle are small. In tropical climates temperature remains relatively constant (hot) throughout the year. Sunlight is intense.\n\nWithin the tropical climate zone there are three distinct varieties based on precipitation:\n\nTropical rainforest climates (Af) have heavy annual precipitation distributed throughout the year, so that there is either no dry season or at most two dry months. All 12 months have average precipitation of at least . These climates usually occur within 15° latitude of the equator. This climate is dominated by the doldrums low-pressure system all year round, so has no natural seasons in terms of thermal and moisture changes. \n\nThe Amazon Basin of South America, the Congo Basin of equatorial Africa and oceanic margins of parts of tropical West Africa have tropical rainforests climates. The insular and peninsular area of Southeast Asia (Thailand, Philippines, New Guinea. Indonesia, etc.) comprise the most extensive region with tropical rainforest climate. Eastern Central America and parts of the Caribbean islands, the Atlantic margins of Brazil, eastern Madagascar island, and southern Ceylon comprise smaller areas with tropical rainforest climate. \n\nCities featuring a Tropical rainforest climate\nSome of the places with this climate are indeed uniformly and monotonously wet throughout the year (e.g., the northwest Pacific coast of South and Central America, from Ecuador to Costa Rica; see, for instance, Andagoya, Colombia), but in many cases, the period of higher sun and longer days is distinctly wettest (as at Palembang, Indonesia) or the time of lower sun and shorter days may have more rain (as at Sitiawan, Malaysia).\n\n(Note. The term aseasonal refers to the lack in the tropical zone of large differences in daylight hours and mean monthly (or daily) temperature throughout the year. Annual cyclic changes occur in the tropics, but not as predictably as those in the temperate zone, albeit unrelated to temperature, but to water availability whether as rain, mist, soil, or ground water. Plant response (e. g., phenology), animal (feeding, migration, reproduction, etc.), and human activities (plant sowing, harvesting, hunting, fishing, etc.) are tuned to this 'seasonality'. Indeed, in tropical South America and Central America, the 'rainy season' (and the 'high water season') is called \"invierno\" or \"inverno\", though it could occur in the Northern Hemisphere summer; likewise, the 'dry season' (and 'low water season') is called \"verano\" or \"verão\", and can occur in the Northern Hemisphere winter).\n\nThis type of climate results from the monsoon winds which change direction according to the seasons. In this type of tropical climate, there is a short but distinct dry season. This climate has a driest month (which nearly always occurs at or soon after the \"winter\" solstice for that side of the equator) with rainfall less than 60 mm, but more than 1/25 the total annual precipitation.\n\nCities featuring a Tropical monsoon climate\n\n\"Aw\" climates have a pronounced dry season, with the driest month having precipitation less than 60 mm and less than 1/25 of the total annual precipitation. In the Aw tropical climate the dry season is often several months and can be severe, with most plant and animal life adapting to drought conditions for several months. Aw climates often (but not always as in Africa) occur in higher tropical latitudes, between 15 and 20 north and south. Aw climates often feature tree-studded grasslands, rather than thick jungle. It is this widespread occurrence of tall , course grass (called savanna) which has lead to Aw climates often being referred to as tropical savanna. However, there is some doubt whether tropical grasslands are climatically induced. Additionally, pure savannas, with out trees, are the exception rather than the rule.\n\nThis type of tropical climate occurs in northern Australia, across the Sudan and eastern Africa, and parts south-central Brazil and adjacent parts of Bolivia and Paraguay and western Madagascar in the southern hemisphere. In the northern hemisphere tropical savanna climate occurs north of the Amazon in Venezuela and Colombia, as well as parts of western Central America, western Cuba, and the extreme southern part of Florida in the United States. \n\nCities featuring a Tropical savanna climate\n\nSometimes \"As\" is used in place of \"Aw\" if the dry season occurs during the time of higher sun and longer days. This is the case in parts of Hawaii, northwestern Dominican Republic, East Africa, and the Brazilian Northeastern Coast. In most places that have tropical wet and dry climates, however, the dry season occurs during the time of lower sun and shorter days because of rain shadow effects during the 'high-sun' part of the year.\n\nExamples\n\nOwing to different causes certain places within the tropics do not have a tropical climate, such as some desert areas and alpine regions. \n\nBecause of the effect of sun angle on climate most areas within the tropics are hot year-round, with diurnal variations in temperature exceeding seasonal variations. Seasonal variations in tropical climate are dominated by changes in precipitation, which are in turn largely influenced by the tropical rain belt or Intertropical Convergence Zone (ITCZ), a portion of the Hadley cell. The ITCZ is shown, for July average, in the graphic. Areas of ascending air have heavy rainfall; areas of descending air are dry. The ITCZ somewhat follows the solar equator throughout the year, but with geographical variations, and in some areas (India) is heavily influenced by local large-scale monsoons.\n"}
{"id": "13108510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13108510", "title": "Underbucking", "text": "Underbucking\n\nUnderbucking is a type of log bucking where the cuts are made upwards from the lower side of a suspended log. It is the opposite of \"overbucking\", cutting from the top side down. The tool supporting a saw in such a cut is known as the \"underbuck\".\n\nUnderbucking is called that because a sawyer will cut the suspended log from the underside of the log, upwards. Cutting from the top of a suspended log will cause the log to bind on the saw blade as the log sags at the cutting point. Cutting from below will cause the cut to widen as the log sags, avoiding binding on the saw blade. \n\nAn underbucking tool can be made using an ax driven into the side of the log so that a crosscut saw can be turned upside down.\n\nA special tool designed specifically for underbucking facilitates the job of cutting from the ground upwards. The underbuck tool is driven into the section of the log which is considered to be least likely of moving once the cut has been successfully made. The crosscut saw's backside rides along the pulley that rests on the bar driven into the log. As the sawyer draws the saw backward, the sawyer may apply leverage downward and the pulley will redirect the force upward into the wood. Some underbuck cuts are made part way and finished with a cut from the top.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35606603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35606603", "title": "Upper Atbara and Setit Dam Complex", "text": "Upper Atbara and Setit Dam Complex\n\nThe Upper Atbara and Setit Dam Complex is a twin dam complex comprising Rumela Dam on the Upper Atbarah River and Burdana Dam on the Setit (Tekezé) River in eastern Sudan. The site of the twin dam is located about upstream from the junction of the Atbarah and Setit rivers and about south of the Khashm el-Girba Dam. Construction began in 2011 was expected to be completed by March 2016. The 320 MW dam was inaugurated by President Omar al-Bashir in February 2017, with final stages completed later that year.\n\nRumela Dam on the Atbarah is tall and Burdana Dam on the Setit is in height. The two dams are connected and have a total length of . The twin dam complex has a joined reservoir with a storage capacity of about of water. The maximum filling level is above sea level. The project includes the construction of hydropower stations on both Rumela and Burdana dams with a total installed capacity of 135 MW, which was designed to be capable of producing per year.\n\nThe project was announced in April 2010 with the aims of supporting the development of eastern Sudan by providing irrigation for local agriculture, supplying potable water, and power generation. The project also aimed to increase agriculture production in the New Halfa area of Kassala currently irrigated by the Khashm el-Girba Dam, and the development of new land consisting of in Upper Atbara. Additionally, the dams are expected to provide flood-protection measures along the river banks by regulating the river flow in the project area.\n\nThe total cost of the dam complex is estimated at $1.9 billion, of which $838 million for the construction of the dams is from the China Three Gorges Corporation (CTG) and its overseas project-contracting subsidiary, China International Water & Electric Corporation (CWE).\n\nIn addition to the project implementation costs are hydroelectric and electric costs, technical and consultancy service costs, land-owning and population resettlement costs, and project implementation management and supervision costs by Sudan's Dams Implementation Unit (DIU). The consultant for the project is the French company Sogreah, which also designed and supervised the implementation of the Khashm el-Girba Dam during the 1960s. The Rumela and Burdana dam designs were revised by the German Company Lahmeyer International, the same company that allegedly revised and supervised the design of the controversial Merowe Dam.\n\nArchaeological surveys were undertaken in the area to be flooded by the National Corporation for Antiquities and Museums during the summer of 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "7605723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7605723", "title": "Waferboard", "text": "Waferboard\n\nWaferboard belongs to the subset of reconstituted wood panel products called flakeboards. It is a structural material made from rectangular wood flakes of controlled length and thickness bonded together with waterproof phenolic resin under extreme heat and pressure. The layers of flakes are not oriented, which makes it easier to manufacture. Waferboard is used as a material to build cheap furniture. This type of furniture is usually laminated.\n\n"}
{"id": "45065999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45065999", "title": "White Earth (film)", "text": "White Earth (film)\n\nWhite Earth is a 2014 documentary film by J. Christian Jensen about new arrivals in White Earth, North Dakota who have moved there to seek work in the North Dakota oil boom. The film explores life in the oil boom through the eyes of four children and an immigrant mother. \"White Earth\" was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Documentary (Short Subject) at the 87th Academy Awards. \n\n"}
{"id": "153215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=153215", "title": "Working mass", "text": "Working mass\n\nWorking mass, also referred to as reaction mass, is a mass against which a system operates in order to produce acceleration.\nIn the case of a rocket, for example, the reaction mass is the fuel shot backwards to provide propulsion. All acceleration requires an exchange of momentum, which can be thought of as the \"unit of movement\". Momentum is related to mass and velocity, as given by the formula \"P = mv,\" where \"P\" is the momentum, \"m\" the mass, and \"v\" the velocity. The velocity of a body is easily changeable, but in most cases the mass is not, which makes it important.\n\nIn rockets, the total velocity change can be calculated (using the Tsiolkovsky rocket equation) as follows:\n\nformula_1\n\nWhere:\n\nThe term working mass is used primarily in the aerospace field. In more \"down to earth\" examples the working mass is typically provided by the Earth, which contains so much momentum in comparison to most vehicles that the amount it gains or loses can be ignored. However, in the case of an aircraft the working mass is the air, and in the case of a rocket, it is the rocket fuel itself. Most rocket engines use light-weight fuels (liquid hydrogen, oxygen, or kerosene) accelerated to super-sonic speeds. However, ion engines often use heavier elements like xenon as the reaction mass, accelerated to much higher speeds using electric fields.\n\nIn many cases the working mass is separate from the energy used to accelerate it. In a car the engine provides power to the wheels, which then accelerates the Earth backward to make the car move forward. This is not the case for most rockets however, where the rocket propellant is the working mass, as well as the energy source. This means that rockets stop accelerating as soon as they run out of fuel, regardless of other power sources they may have. This can be a problem for satellites that need to be repositioned often, as it limits their useful life. In general, the exhaust velocity should be close to the ship velocity for optimum energy efficiency. This limitation of rocket propulsion is one of the main motivations for the ongoing interest in field propulsion technology.\n\n"}
{"id": "42920560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42920560", "title": "Zeoform", "text": "Zeoform\n\nZeoform is a new material developed and patented by an Australian company \"Zeo IP Pty\". It is derived from cellulose and water, transforming lignocellulosic fibres from industrial biomass into a structural material suitable for various applications in the industrial sector. It is claimed to be non toxic, biodegradable and could be used as a replacement for many forms of hard plastics, as well as synthetic and chemical composites.\n\nThe original discovery of its basis occurred in 1897 by a German company \"M.M.Rotten\" in Berlin, patenting a method to produce a natural material utilizing cellulose. Almost 100 years later, three material researchers made advancements on the process that is the basis for Zeoform. This led to the creation, in 2005, of an Australian company which manufactured artisan products from the material. In 2008 \"Alf Wheeler\", an Australian entrepreneur and businessman, joined the company as CEO and changed the focus from a “product” company to a “raw materials” company. \"Zeo IP Pty Ltd\" was then established in 2009 to protect and proliferate the material and the brand worldwide.\n\nZeoform is derived from lignocellulosic biomass, such as hemp, cotton, bamboo, sisal, jute, palm, coconut and other cellulose feedstock. It is made without any glues, binders, chemicals or synthetics. The fundamental chemistry (and patented formula) causes a fibrillation (feathering) of cellulose micro-fibres (in water), then physical ‘entanglement’ and hydroxyl bonding through evaporation. The result is a super-strong, highly durable, consistent material that emulates wood & wood composites, resin composites, fibreglass and many hard plastics. Zeoform can be produced with various qualities – from light styrofoam to dense ebony. The material is sustainable, compostable and sequesters carbon.\n\nZeoform can be used as a replacement for conventional materials in hundreds of industries, including construction grade flat sheets and curved panels to replace MDF, Masonite, Formica, Corian and other synthetic composites. Zeoform can be sprayed, moulded, pressed, laminated or formed using manual and mechanical processes. It can be produced in quantities ranging from small cottage industry to fully automated and robotic mass production.\n\nZeoform intends to produce a 3D Printing ‘feedstock’, combining bio-polymers (natural resins) and other elements for an almost unlimited product range. Given the unique qualities of Zeoform, potential exists to develop a customized 3D printer in collaboration with industry leaders. Additionally, 3D printing provides sustainable mould-making capacity for mass-producing Zeoform products at reduced cost and environmental impact.\n\n"}
