{"id": "35517506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35517506", "title": "9th Congress of the Sammarinese Communist Party", "text": "9th Congress of the Sammarinese Communist Party\n\nThe ninth congress of the Sammarinese Communist Party was held between December 10 and December 12, 1976, at Palazzo dei Congressi in the City of San Marino. The event was chaired by the party general secretary, Umberto Barulli. The congress was visited by delegations from the Soviet Union (Vadim Zagladin), Italy, the German Democratic Republic, Romania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Palestine, Yugoslavia and Chile.\n"}
{"id": "7810525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7810525", "title": "ACEA agreement", "text": "ACEA agreement\n\nThe ACEA agreement refers to a voluntary agreement between the European Automobile Manufacturers Association (ACEA) and the European Commission to limit the amount of carbon dioxide (CO) emitted by passenger cars sold in Europe. With 18 million cars sold each year, Europe is the last major car market in the world.\n\nSigned in 1998, the agreement sought to achieve an average of 140 g/km of CO by 2008 for new passenger vehicles sold by the association's cars in Europe. This target represents a 25% reduction from the 1995 level of 186 g/km and is equivalent to a fuel economy of 5.8 L/100 km or 5.25 L/100 km for petrol and diesel engines respectively. However, the average for the whole car market for 2008 was 153.7 g/km, so the target has not been achieved.\n\nBesides the agreement with ACEA, the European Commission also closed agreements with the Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association (JAMA) and Korea Automobile Manufacturers Association (KAMA). However, for the latter two the target date is 2009 instead of 2008 and as ACEA accounts for 86.4% of car sales in Europe, the impact of the latter two is much smaller.\n\nThe ultimate EU target to which these agreements are to contribute, is to reach an average CO emission (as measured according to Commission Directive 93/116/EC) of 130 g/km for all new passenger cars by 2015.\n\nThe European Commission announced in late 2006 that it is working on a proposal for legally binding measures and limits.\n\nIn February 2007, the Commission acknowledged the failure of the voluntary agreement. Following this, a proposal of regulation was introduced by the Commission on 19 December 2007.\n\nThe agreement defines fleet-average CO emission targets from new cars sold in the European Union, to be reached collectively by the members of the association. CO is the only gas covered by the agreements, other greenhouse gas emissions are currently not controlled (see carbon dioxide equivalent). How the target is to be achieved is not specified, and are expected by the Commission to be mainly by technological developments and market changes linked to these developments.\n\nApart from the 140 g/km target, the ACEA should evaluate in 2003 the potential for additional improvements with a view to moving further towards the objective of emission targets:\n\n\nConcerning costs, a report for the European Commission last year showed that the cost of meeting the target for new cars of 120 g/km of CO would be on average €577 per car, which could be earned back in a few years time due to the improved fuel economy implied in the reductions.\n\nFiat has already reached the 2008 goal, 3 year in advance (achieving 139 g/km). Citroen (144 g/km) and Renault (149 g/km) are on track to meet the 140 g/km commitment in 2008. Ford (151 g/km) and Peugeot (151 g/km) are almost on track. These brands were also relatively good performers in 1997 and yet still managed to reduce their CO emissions significantly.\n\nOnly Fiat was able to reach the 2008 planned goal of 140 g/km, with a value of 137.3 g/km. Peugeot (141.9 g/km) and Citroen (142.2 g/km) are still on track.\n\nOnly two brands were able to reach the 2008 planned goal of 140 g/km: Fiat, with a value of 133.7 g/km and Peugeot, with 138.1 g/km. The Fiat Auto Group (including the Fiat, Alfa Romeo, Lancia, Abarth, Ferrari and Maserati brands) was the only group to reach the planned value, averaging 138.4 g/km. The average for the whole car market for 2008 is 153.7 g/km, so the target has not been achieved.\n\nMore brands reached the (now expired) 2008 140 g/km goal: Fiat (127.8 g/km), Toyota (130.1 g/km), Peugeot (133.6 g/km), Renault (137.5 g/km), Citroen (137.9 g/km) and Ford (140.0 g/km). Fiat, however, was the only brand to reach the 2015 goal of 130 g/km, 6 years in advance. The Fiat Auto Group (including the Fiat, Alfa Romeo, Lancia, Abarth, Ferrari and Maserati brands) averaged to 131.0 g/km.\n\nFor the fourth year running, Fiat Automobiles is the brand that has recorded the lowest level of emissions by vehicles sold in Europe in 2010 as certified by the company JATO Dynamics. Fiat posted a mean value of 123.1 g/km and it also ranked first as Group, with 125.9 g/km and an improvement of 5 g/km compared to last year.\n\nFor the fifth year running, Fiat Automobiles is the brand that has recorded the lowest level of emissions by vehicles sold in Europe in 2011 as certified by the company JATO Dynamics. Fiat posted a mean value of 118.2 g/km, the first and only brand to reach the 120 g/km value, while other seven brands were able to reach the 130 g/km value. The average for the whole car market is 136.1 g/km.\n\nFor the sixth year running, Fiat Automobiles is the brand that has recorded the lowest level of emissions by vehicles sold in Europe in 2012 as certified by the company JATO Dynamics. Fiat posted a mean value of 119.8 g/km, still the only brand to reach the 120 g/km value, while other eight brands were able to reach the 130 g/km value. The average for the whole car market is 132.3 g/km.\n\nThe Commission will support research efforts towards reaching the European Road Transport Research Advisory Council (ERTRAC) research target of \"Improvements in vehicle efficiency [that] will deliver as much as a 40% reduction in CO emissions for passenger cars for the new vehicle fleet in 2020\". This would correspond to a new car fleet average of 95 g/km of CO (COM/2007/19).\n\nSome environmental groups insist on the need for a longer-term target that doubles fuel efficiency of new cars over the next decade, 80 g/km of C0 by 2020.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21382641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21382641", "title": "Actually existing capitalism", "text": "Actually existing capitalism\n\n\"Actually existing capitalism\" or \"really existing capitalism\" is an ironic term used by critics of neoliberalism and capitalism, used to claim that many economies purportedly practicing capitalism (an economic system characterized by a \"laissez-faire\" free market system) actually have significant state intervention and partnerships between private industry and the state. The term mixed economy is also used to describe economies with these attributes. The term seeks to point out discrepancy between capitalism as normally defined and what is labelled as capitalism in practice, and to claim that capitalism as defined is not desirable, pointing to the use of regulation in avoiding economic problems such as acute commodities fluctuations, financial market crashes, monopolies, and extensive environmental damage. \n\nCapitalism is defined as an economic system with the following attributes:\n\nCritics of capitalism as in the above definition hold that perfect competition is only theoretical, and that any economy that claims to be capitalist is actually some other type of economic system, i.e. only has some capitalist features. Further, current understandings of economics would need to incorporate this impossibility of such capitalism, no longer using the definition of capitalism as a starting point with which to analyze an economy. In this sense, the term can be understood as a critique of the methods of the economics discipline generally, and specifically of the Austrian School or the Chicago school of economics.\n\n"}
{"id": "55763818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55763818", "title": "Agnes Chow", "text": "Agnes Chow\n\nAgnes Chow Ting (; born 3 December 1996) is a Hong Kong social activist. She is the member of the Standing Committee of Demosistō and former spokesperson of Scholarism. Initially a candidate supported by the Pro-democracy camp for the 2018 Hong Kong Island by-election, she was barred from running based on her party's stance on advocating democratic self-determination.\n\nShe first came to spotlight in the anti-Moral and National Education movement as the spokesman of student activist group Scholarism in 2012. She was a Form 6 student at the Holy Family Canossian College and protested against the implementation of the Moral and National Education scheme which they deemed as \"brainwashing\". The movement successfully drew thousands of protesters gathered in front of the Central Government Complex which led to the backdown of the government in September 2012.\nAfter the Moral and National Education, Chow and other activists of Scholarism including Joshua Wong and Ivan Lam continued their involvement in social and political movements, notably the 2014 Hong Kong electoral reform. Chow was one of the leaders in the class boycott campaign against the restrictive electoral framework set by the National People's Congress Standing Committee on the 2017 Chief Executive election, which led to the massive Occupy protests dubbed the \"Umbrella Revolution\". During the occupation, Chow announced her stepping out of the politics by resigning as spokesperson of Scholarism, citing the \"heavy pressure\" and \"extreme confusion and fatigue\" she was facing.\n\nIn April 2016, she was among one of the founding members of Demosistō with other former student leaders in the Occupy protests and was the first deputy secretary-general of the party from 2016 to 2017. She campaigned with party chairman Nathan Law in the 2016 Legislative Council election, in which the latter was elected as the youngest member of the Legislative Council in history. In 2017, she participated in the protest during the Communist Party General Secretary Xi Jinping, in which they covered the Golden Bauhinia statue with banners. She was arrested along with Demosistō chairman Nathan Law and secretary-general Joshua Wong.\nAfter Nathan Law was ejected from the Legislative Council over the oath-taking controversy in July 2017 and sentenced to imprisonment in August at same year, which barred Law from being candidate of public offices for 5 years, Chow became Demosistō's candidate in the 2018 Hong Kong Island by-election. In order to be qualified for running, she gave up her British citizenship. On 27 January 2018, her candidacy was disqualified by the Electoral Affairs Commission on the basis of that she \"cannot possibly comply with the requirements of the relevant electoral laws, since advocating or promoting 'self-determination' is contrary to the content of the declaration that the law requires a candidate to make to uphold the Basic Law and pledge allegiance to the [Hong Kong Special Administrative Region].\" Several legal experts expressed misgivings about the decision, leading Chief Executive Carrie Lam to comment that \"any suggestion of Hong Kong independence, self-determination, independence as a choice or self-autonomy is not in line with Basic Law requirements and deviates from the important principle of 'one country two systems.'\" Were Chow elected, she would have been the youngest lawmaker in Hong Kong history.\n"}
{"id": "3110082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3110082", "title": "American-Turkish Council", "text": "American-Turkish Council\n\nThe American-Turkish Council (ATC) is a business association dedicated to enhancing the promotion of US-Turkish commercial, defense, technology, and cultural relations. Its diverse membership includes Fortune 500s, multinationals, U.S. and Turkish companies, non-profit organizations, and individuals with an interest in U.S.-Turkish relations. Guided by member interests, the ATC strives to enhance growing ties between the U.S. and Turkey by increasing investment and trade through high level government relations, effective commercial engagement, and bilateral cultural education. It has been described as \"a 'Turkey lobby' in Washington\".\n\n\nCurrent ATC board members include:\n\n\nATC's advisory board also includes representatives of a number of defense, pharmaceutical, consulting, and technology firms, including BAE Systems and Motorola.\n\nThe American-Turkish Council holds a Joint Annual Conference with the Turkey-U.S. Business Council (TAİK) every year in Washington D.C.\n\nGrowing media scrutiny of the ATC came as a result of allegations made by FBI whistleblower Sibel Edmonds regarding the activities of council members in an article in the September 2005 Vanity Fair. The improprieties were alleged to be illegal contributions to the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation. The ATC is where former Ambassador Joseph Wilson met his future wife and CIA operative, Valerie Plame, leading some to speculate Plame's CIA front company, Brewster-Jennings & Associates, was monitoring the same alleged nuclear trafficking of the ATC as Sibel Edmonds.\n\nIn 2014, James Holmes, ATC President since 2005, was forced to resign at the demand of Turkey's deputy prime minister Ali Babacan. ATC Deputy Head Canan Büyüküstün and Executive Manager Ayşe Sümer also submitted their resignations. This was a result of the ATC having issued a report citing media reports about the 2013 corruption probe in Turkey that had implicated members of the AKP Erdoğan government. Concerns were subsequently raised by Cüneyt Zapsu, former Erdogan advisor and executive member of the ATC's partner organization in Turkey, the Turkey-U.S. Business Council (TAİK), an arm of Turkey's Foreign Economic Relations Board. Further dislike of Holmes by the Turkish government was caused when, \nat an discussion panel chaired by Holmes, AKP-affiliated journalists, acting as if they were still in Turkey where such behavior would be normal, refused to answer a question posed by a Zaman journalist. Holmes rebuked this refusal, insisting that the AKP-columnist answer.\n\n"}
{"id": "21871010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21871010", "title": "Andhra Mahasabha", "text": "Andhra Mahasabha\n\nAndhra Mahasabha (Telugu: ఆంధ్ర మహాసభ, IAST: \"Āndhra mahāsabha\") was a people's organisation in the erstwhile Hyderabad state of India. Started under the name Andhra Janasangham (Andhra People's Society) in 1921, the Andhra Mahasabha spearheaded people's awareness and people's movements among the Telugu-speaking populace of the state and eventually joined hands with the Communist Party of India to launch the Telangana movement.\n\nThere was an increase in political and cultural awareness among people of Hyderabad State at the end of 19th century. As the culture and language of the overwhelming majority of the people living in Hyderabad State was sought to be suppressed by the State rulers, the natural desire for education and cultural development, for protection and development of their other tongue would become a basic doctrinal plank of armed struggle against the Nizam's rule.\n\nA triggering incident that led to the kindling of Telugu people's self-respect in Hyderabad state occurred on 12 November 1921, in the Nizam State \"social conference\" when a Telugu lawyer, Mr. Allampalli Venkata Rama Rao, spoke in Telugu on a resolution. Allampalli Venkata Rama Rao was heckled and shouted at by those in attendance in the audience, among whom were speakers who earlier spoke freely in English, Urdu and Marathi. This event is thought to have mobilized the sentiment of Telugu-language speakers and the perception of that language's \"true position\" in Hyderabad State .\n\nThat night witnessed the creation of the \"Andhra Jana Sangham\" with the stated intention of promoting Telugu language, literature, its books and historical research, with eleven members led by Suravaram Pratapareddy, Madapati Hanumantha Rao, Komarraju Venkata Lakshmana Rao, Duvvuri Subbamma and others.\n\nWithin two years, fifty branches of the Andhra Jana Sangham were established throughout the Telangana region. By 1923, Madapati Hanumantha Rao played a vital role in the central organisation of all the branches into the \"Nizam Rashtra Andhra Jana Kendra Sangham\".\n\nRegular conferences were held during 1923, 1924, 1925 and 1928.\n\nDuring the 1930 conference, the Andhra Jana Sangham changed its name to the Andhra Mahasabha. The Andhra Mahasabha, formed in 1930, pushed for the social and cultural development of the people of Telangana.\n\nIts first conference was held in 1930 at Jogipet in Medak district under the presidency of Suravaram Pratap Reddy. A women's conference called the Andhra Mahila Sabha was held simultaneously with the Andhra Maha Sabha under the presidency of Nadimpalli Sundaramma. Burgula Ramakrishna Rao presided over the second conference held at Devarakonda in 1931. The Nizam's government, deriving its \"legitimacy\" from Islamist bigotry and racist contempt for Telugu-speaking Hindus, developed a hostile attitude towards the Mahasabha and imposed several restrictions on it. As a consequence, the Mahasabha could not obtain \"permission\" for three years until it held its third conference, at Khammam, in 1934, under the presidency of Pulijala Venkata Ranga Rao.\n\nThe fourth Andhra Mahasabha, held at Sircilla in Karimnagar district, was presided over by Madapati Hanumantha Rao in 1935, while his wife Manikyamba presided over the Andhra Mahila Sabha simultaneously at the same place. The speakers started speaking in Telugu in this conference giving up Urdu, Marathi and English. A primary form for the constitution of Andhra Mahasabha was given in this conference. Many important resolutions were passed in this conference.\n\nThe leaders like Baddam Yella Reddy, Anabheri Prabhakar Rao, Singireddy Bhoopathi Reddy and the social reformer Bhoomaiah vakil (pleader) played important role in organising this conference. Representatives from all the taluks of the district attended this conference. From Jagtial Kasam Shivaraja Gupta, Jaisetty Lakshmirajam Gupta and Siddamsetti Sangaiah etc. attended it. The branch of Andhra Mahasabha was opened by Kasam Shivaraja Gupta at Jagtial. Raghunath Kache, who attended this conference, established the Andhra Mahasabha branch at Manthani. After the conference of Sircilla, a permanent office of Andhra Maha Sabha was opened at Boiwada in Karimnagar. Baddam Yella Reddy was elected as the District president of Mahasabha, while Anabheri Prabhakar Rao was elected as secretary. Damodar Rao of Gundi-Ramadugu was put in charge of the office. The branches of Andhra Maha Sabha were opened at Sircilla, Jagtial, Manthani, Peddapalli, Metpalli, Koratla, Choppadandi, Sultanabad, Huzurabad and several other places in Karimnagar district.\n\nThe popular leaders like K.V.Ranga Reddy, J.V.Narasing Rao, Suravaram Pratap Reddy, Raavi Narayana Reddy, Baddam\nYella Reddy etc. participated in the Sircilla conference on 6 September 1935. The famous weight lifter Kodi Rama Krishna of Vijayawada is said to have exhibited his feats in this conference.\n\nThe offices of Andhra Mahasabha opened in the district carried on a campaign against Vetti Chakiri or forced labour, compulsory levy system of paddy and the exploitation of the masses by the privileged class like landlords, Jagirdars and Deshmukhs. The Volunteers of the Mahasabha helped the weavers in getting the cotton thread supplied by the Government on ration cards. They worked for the fair distribution of the cotton thread without allowing scope for black marketing.\n\nThe fifth conference of Andhra Mahasabha was held at Jagir village Shadnagar in 1936 under the presidency of Konda Venkata Ranga Reddy. The sixth conference held at Nizamabad in 1937 was presided over by Mandamula Narsinga Rao. When the Seventh conference was presided over by Mandamula Ramachandar Rao at Malkapur, young men like Raavi Narayan Reddy from Nalgonda, Kaloji Narayan Rao from Warangal and Polkampalli Venkatrama Rao from Karimnagar attended it. The delegates were divided into two distinct groups namely moderates and leftists. The eighth conference held at Chilkuru near Huzurnagar in Nalgonda district in 1941 was presided over by the Communist leader Raavi Narayana Reddy. The problems of women and the agricultural tenants were mainly discussed in this conference. The Ninth Andhra Mahasabha conference held in 1942 at Dharmavaram in Warangal district was presided over by Madiraju Rama Koteswara Rao. In 1943 the Tenth conference was held in Hyderabad. Konda Venkata Ranga Reddy belonging to moderates group having defeated the leftist leader Baddam Yella Reddy of Karimnagar district became the president of this conference. In the eleventh conference held at Bhuvanagiri in 1944 the communists dominated and their leader Raavi Narayan Reddy became the president. This Andhra Mahasabha attended by ten thousand people came under the control of communists. The communist leader Chandra Rajeshwar Rao addressed this eleventh session. This led to a split in the Mahasabha. Moderates like Konda Venkata Ranga Reddy and others formed a separate association called the Nationalist Andhra Mahasabha which held two sessions in 1945 and 1946. The last session of the Nationalist Andhra Mahasabha held at Kandi Village in Medak district in 1946 was presided over by Jamalapuram Keshava Rao. However the Nationalist Andhra Mahasabha ultimately merged itself into the Hyderabad State congress.\n\nThe Communist led Andhra Mahasabha held its twelfth session at Khammam in 1946 under the presidency of Raavi Narayan Reddy. More than forty thousand people attended this conference. On 3 December 1946 the communist party was banned and naturally the activities of Andhra Mahasabha came to a close.\n\nThe last Nizam, Mir Osman Ali Khan was very notorious for the strengthening of feudalism in the Hyderabad state. The feudal lords, nobles and other government officials, known as Razakars exploited the poor peasants and workers of their wealth, property, land and many times raped their ladies. Common people had no way other than depending on the landlords' mercy for basic needs like food, shelter and clothing. This situation made the people very angry. Many communist leaders of the region inspired by the Russian Revolution have decided to overthrow the Nizam's rule.\n\nSri Madapati Hanumantha Rao started Andhra MahaSabha. It was in 1928 that the Andhra Mahasabha was organised\nunder the leadership of Sri Madapati Hanumantha Rao and others. Its first conference was held in Jogipeta in 1930 under the\nchairmanship of Suravaram Pratapa Reddy. In conferences, it used to pass resolutions demanding certain reforms in the\nadministrative structure, for more schools, for certain concessions for the landed gentry, for certain civil liberties, but did not try to mobilise the people and launch struggles against the oppressors or against the Nizam's Government. But it became in those\nwretched and tremendously oppressive conditions in Hyderabad state, a forum, a focal point for the rising democratic aspirations of\nthe people. (written by Sri Puchalapalli Sundaraiah in his book 'Telangana People's struggles and its lessons')\n\nThe Communist Party of India organised a peasant led armed rebellion against the cruel rule of Nizam landlords under the banner of Andhra Mahasabha. Few among the well-known individuals at the forefront of the movement were great leaders like Pendyala Satyanarayana Rao, Kaloji Narayana Rao, Pendyala Raghava Rao, Anabheri Prabhakar Rao, Puchalapalli Sundaraiah, Chandra Rajeswara Rao, Raavi Narayana Reddy, the Urdu poet Makhdoom Mohiuddin, Hassan Nasir, Bhimreddy Narasimha Reddy, Mallu Venkata Narasimha Reddy, Mallu Swarajyam, Arutla Ramchandra Reddy and his wife Arutla Kamala bai. The rebellion is historically famous as the Telangana Rebellion and ended in October 1951.\n\nThe Comrades Association played an influential role in the guiding the Mahasabha.\n"}
{"id": "52566368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52566368", "title": "Apostolic Nuncio to Prussia", "text": "Apostolic Nuncio to Prussia\n\nThe Apostolic Nuncio to Prussia was the ambassador of the Holy See to the Free State of Prussia. He was based in Berlin. \n\nIt was founded in 1925 by pope Pius XI at the request of the Weimar Republic, which intended to give greater prominence to Berlin's Catholics. Such a nunciature had been mooted since the 1871 constitution of the German Empire, but the strong Protestant presence, the support of the kings of Prussia and emperors of Germany, the lack of clear support for such a nunciature from the Holy See and opposition from Austria delayed its inauguration. By this time, there was also already long standing nunciatures to Germany and Bavaria, usually both held by the same man. The German states lost their independence on 30 January 1934 and the nunciature in Berlin was officially closed as a result. It was not revived after World War II.\n\n"}
{"id": "46352180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46352180", "title": "Ballot Monkeys", "text": "Ballot Monkeys\n\nBallot Monkeys is a 2015 British comedy series which appeared on Channel 4 in the run up to the 2015 general election. The five-part series was set on campaign buses belonging to the Conservative Party, Labour Party, Liberal Democrats and UK Independence Party featuring groups of mid-level party campaign organisers as each embarks on their respective election campaigns.\n\nThe series was written by Andy Hamilton and Guy Jenkin. Episodes were written and produced within hours of transmission, allowing the characters to react to recent real-world events.\n\nThe series cuts between the Conservative, Labour, Liberal Democrat and UKIP buses. Apart from a brief phone call at the end of the last episode, these groups do not interact with each other. All scenes are shot inside or in the immediate vicinity of the campaign buses, and much of the humour comes from the candidates talking candidly in private about their party and campaign in ways that they would not do in public. In each party there are interpersonal conflicts between individuals.\n\nIn the Conservative group nominal leader Martin (Hugh Dennis), a frustrated one-nation conservative, clashes with the well-connected Baz (Jimmy Akingbola), the latter of which openly supports what he considers to be Boris Johnson's inevitable rise to power and is far more willing to engage in more cynical campaign ploys. Women's issues consultant Siobhan (Hattie Morahan) feels marginalised by both men. The group is completed by dim-witted and politically uninformed intern Ruby (Liz Kingsman), who the group is forced to employ as she is the daughter of a major party donor.\n\nIn the Labour group Jack (Trevor Cooper), a long time party supporter, is confused and dismayed by how the party, politics and campaigning has changed. Social media organiser Conor (Theo Barklem-Biggs) continually suggests unhelpful online strategies, mostly to the chagrin of co-ordinator Christine (Daisy Haggard). The advice of American political strategy consultant Melanie (Kathleen Rose Perkins), who is frequently depicted trying to secure a future job in the 2016 presidential election campaign, grates with her English colleagues.\n\nLiberal Democrat Kevin (Ben Miller), dismayed at the poor electoral prospects of his party, the last five years of coalition government, and a recent divorce, suffers a nervous breakdown, showing increasingly erratic behaviour as the series progresses. Assistant Charlotte (Esther Smith), tries to help, but party grandee Simon (Michael Fenton Stevens) repeatedly refuses to acknowledge that a problem exists.\n\nIn the UKIP bus, communications manager Gerry (Andy Nyman), a UKIP supporter on purely Eurosceptic grounds, struggles to prevent political damage arising from offensive comments and behaviour of other UKIP members. This includes those of openly bigoted logistics manager Kate (Sarah Hadland). The bus is driven by Obi (Rhashan Stone), a friendly and resourceful Somalian immigrant. Gerry and Obi strike up a friendship, bonding over a mutual love of Star Wars, while Kate views him with suspicion due to his race. Gerry is forced to fire Obi after he learns he is an illegal immigrant, and his replacement Mick (Steven O'Donnell) is far more aligned with Kate's bigoted worldview.\n\nA sequel series, \"Power Monkeys\" began airing on 8 June 2016. While retaining the same up-to-the-minute production style, the new series focuses more broadly on current events, such as the EU referendum or the American election.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31895038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31895038", "title": "Civil–military relations during the Recep Tayyip Erdoğan government", "text": "Civil–military relations during the Recep Tayyip Erdoğan government\n\nDuring the Recep Tayyip Erdoğan government, civil–military relationship moved towards normalization in which the influence of the military was reduced. During its nine-year reign, the ruling Justice and Development Party, or AK Party, has often faced off against the military, gaining political power by challenging a pillar of the country’s laicistic establishment.\n\nThe ruling party, which came to power following the November 3, 2002 general elections, is not the first government to have tangled with the military in Turkey, where the powerful Turkish Armed Forces, or TSK, has periodically carried out coups d’état since the 1960s. But the shift in the balance of power in civil-military ties has been one of the most important changes the AK Party has made to Turkey’s political landscape.\n\nUnder the party’s tenure, the military, while it remains suspicious of the motives of the AK Party, has become much less enthusiastic about making public statements on political issues and more cooperative in efforts to further align Turkey’s standards to those of the European Union even when such moves would curb the TSK’s own powers.\n\nThe following persons served as Chief of the General Staff between 2002 and 2011:\n\nSince the first AK Party government in late 2002, the military, which sees itself as the guardian of the laicistic, democratic and republican Turkish state, monitored what it saw as a “pro-Islamic party” aiming to undermine the country’s laicistic regime. The military had successfully challenged the Islamic Welfare Party in 1996, overthrowing the government of prime minister Necmettin Erbakan following the months-long struggle known as the February 28 process. The process resulted in Erbakan’s resignation from the government and the dissolution of his party by the Constitutional Court.\n\nIn the 2000s, however, the political landscape was not as favorable for military influence in politics. The first reason for this shift was the European Union membership process, which nurtured the notion of democratization in the country; another was the election victory of the AK Party that brought this “democratic conservative party” a clear majority in Parliament in 2002. Having seen what the political choices of many of its members led to in the past, the AK Party resolved to be firm in confronting the military this time around.\n\nNegotiating for membership in the European Union, which was highly critical of the military’s influence in politics, no doubt strengthened the AK Party's hand. The three-party coalition that previously led the country had already taken initial steps in 2001 and 2002 to stem this influence, helping prepare a suitable environment for the AK Party to further move against the political influence of the military.\n\n“Since 1999, civilian control of the military has been strengthened. The constitutional and legal framework has been amended to clarify the position of the armed forces versus the civilian authorities,” the European Union said in its 2004 Progress Report on Turkey, which cited various developments with regard to civil-military ties. “A number of changes have been introduced over the last year to strengthen civilian control of the military with a view to aligning it with practice in EU member states.”\n\nIn 2001, the coalition party had amended the law governing the National Security Council, or MGK, turning the country’s top security board into an advisory board with an increased number of civilian members. The AK Party further amended the duties and composition of the National Security Council in 2003, a move that paved the way for the appointment of a civilian secretary and reduced the frequency of the council’s meetings to once every two months.\n\nIn an attempt to strengthen Parliament’s supervision over the military’s budget concerning defense expenditures, the government initiated amendments to the Law on Public Financial Management and Control in 2003. Though there are still difficulties in implementing these amendments, the change established a new base for full parliamentary oversight of defense expenditures. In addition, it was under the government of the AK Party that the military’s budget became smaller than the education budget.\n\nIn 2006, an amendment made to the Military Criminal Code prevented military courts from trying civilians in peacetime unless military personnel and civilians commit a crime together. That was followed by legislation in 2009 that allowed civilian courts to try military personnel in peacetime for crimes subject to the Heavy Penal Court. In 2010, the EMASYA protocol, a secret blueprint that allowed the military to conduct operations for internal matters under certain conditions without a request from civilian authorities, was annulled with the consent of the chief of General Staff.\n\nIn 2010, a constitutional amendment approved by the people in a referendum paved the way for military personnel expelled through Supreme Military Council, or YAŞ, decisions to appeal.\n\nDespite the AK Party’s legal moves to diminish the means by which the military could interfere in the political field, the army continued to exercise significant political influence. Chiefs of General Staff, force commanders and lesser-ranking military personnel did not hesitate to express their opinions on domestic and foreign policy issues, many of which were critical of the government.\n\nThe biggest issue that caused deep fissures between the army and the government was the midnight e-memorandum posted on the military’s website objecting to the selection of Foreign Minister Abdullah Gül as the ruling party’s candidate for the Presidency in 2007. The military argued that the election of Gül, whose wife wears an Islamic headscarf, could undermine the laicistic order of the country.\n\nContrary to expectations, the government responded harshly to former Chief of General Staff Gen. Yaşar Büyükanıt’s e-memorandum, saying the selection of the presidential candidate had nothing to do with the military. This challenge was followed by a confidential meeting between Büyükanıt and Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdoğan at Dolmabahçe Palace.\n\nDespite all the tension, Gül was eventually elected president, becoming the first head of Turkey whose wife is covered. This has continued to be an issue between Gül and the military, as top generals have avoided participating in official events where First Lady Hayrünnisa Gül would also be present.\n\nThe ruling party has backed prosecutors who launched judicial proceedings against senior military personnel, including former four-star generals, in regard to alleged coup plots against the government in 2003 and 2004. As part of the Ergenekon and \"Balyoz\" (Sledgehammer) cases, hundreds of retired and active-duty military personnel, as well as other prominent figures, have been arrested by prosecutors on charges of attempting to overthrow the government. The cases marked the first time such high-ranking military personnel had been accused of anti-democratic moves and prosecuted by civilian prosecutors.\n"}
{"id": "1038280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1038280", "title": "Climate engineering", "text": "Climate engineering\n\nClimate engineering or climate intervention, commonly referred to as geoengineering, is the deliberate and large-scale intervention in the Earth’s climate system, usually with the aim of mitigating the adverse effects of global warming. Climate engineering is an umbrella term for measures that mainly fall into two categories: greenhouse gas removal and solar radiation management. Greenhouse gas removal approaches, of which carbon dioxide removal represents the most prominent subcategory addresses the cause of global warming by removing greenhouse gases from the atmosphere. Solar radiation management attempts to offset effects of greenhouse gases by causing the Earth to absorb less solar radiation.\n\nClimate engineering approaches are sometimes viewed as additional potential options for limiting climate change or its impacts, alongside mitigation and adaptation. There is substantial agreement among scientists that climate engineering cannot substitute for climate change mitigation. Some approaches might be used as accompanying measures to sharp cuts in greenhouse gas emissions. Given that all types of measures for addressing climate change have economic, political, or physical limitations, some climate engineering approaches might eventually be used as part of an ensemble of measures, which can be referred to as climate restoration. Research on costs, benefits, and various types of risks of most climate engineering approaches is at an early stage and their understanding needs to improve to judge their adequacy and feasibility.\n\nAlmost all research into solar radiation management has to date consisted of computer modelling or laboratory tests, and an attempt to move to outdoor experimentation has proven controversial. Some carbon dioxide removal practices, such as afforestation, ecosystem restoration and bio-energy with carbon capture and storage projects, are underway to a limited extent. Their scalability to effectively affect global climate is, however, debated. Ocean iron fertilization has been investigated in small-scale research trials. These experiments have proven controversial. The World Wildlife Fund has criticized these activities.\n\nMost experts and major reports advise against relying on climate engineering techniques as a main solution to global warming, in part due to the large uncertainties over effectiveness and side effects. However, most experts also argue that the risks of such interventions must be seen in the context of risks of dangerous global warming. Interventions at large scale may run a greater risk of disrupting natural systems resulting in a dilemma that those approaches that could prove highly (cost-) effective in addressing extreme climate risk, might themselves cause substantial risk. Some have suggested that the concept of engineering the climate presents a so-called \"moral hazard\" because it could reduce political and public pressure for emissions reduction, which could exacerbate overall climate risks; others assert that the threat of climate engineering could spur emissions cuts. \nSome are in favour of a moratorium on out-of-doors testing and deployment of solar radiation management (SRM).\n\nWith respect to climate, geoengineering is defined by the Royal Society as \"... the deliberate large-scale intervention in the Earth’s climate system, in order to moderate global warming.\"\n\nSeveral organizations have investigated climate engineering with a view to evaluating its potential, including the US Congress, the National Academy of Sciences, the Royal Society, and the UK Parliament. The Asilomar International Conference on Climate Intervention Technologies was convened to identify and develop risk reduction guidelines for climate intervention experimentation.\n\nSome environmental organisations (such as Friends of the Earth and Greenpeace) have been reluctant to endorse solar radiation management, but are often more supportive of some carbon dioxide removal projects, such as afforestation and peatland restoration. Some authors have argued that any public support for climate engineering may weaken the fragile political consensus to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.\n\nThe 1965 landmark report, \"Restoring the Quality of Our Environment\" by U.S. President Lyndon B. Johnson’s Science Advisory Committee warned of the harmful effects of fossil fuel emissions, the report also mentioned \"deliberately bringing about countervailing climatic changes,\" including by \"raising the albedo, or reflectivity, of the Earth.\" Teller et al. 1997 suggested to research and deploy reflective particles, to reduce incoming solar radiation, and thus to cancel the effects of fossil fuel burning.\n\nSeveral climate engineering strategies have been proposed. IPCC documents detail several notable proposals. These fall into two main categories: solar radiation management and carbon dioxide removal.\n\nSolar radiation management (SRM) techniques would seek to reduce sunlight absorbed (ultra-violet, near infra-red and visible). This would be achieved by deflecting sunlight away from the Earth, or by increasing the reflectivity (albedo) of the atmosphere or the Earth's surface. These methods would not reduce greenhouse gas concentrations in the atmosphere, and thus would not seek to address problems such as the ocean acidification caused by CO. In general, solar radiation management projects presently appear to be able to take effect rapidly and to have very low direct implementation costs relative to greenhouse gas emissions cuts and carbon dioxide removal. Furthermore, many proposed SRM methods would be reversible in their direct climatic effects. While greenhouse gas remediation offers a more comprehensive possible solution to global warming, it does not give instantaneous results; for that, solar radiation management is required.\n\nSolar radiation management methods may include:\n\nCarbon dioxide removal (sometimes known as negative emissions technologies or greenhouse gas removal) projects seek to remove carbon dioxide from the atmosphere. Proposed methods include those that directly remove such gases from the atmosphere, as well as indirect methods that seek to promote natural processes that draw down and sequester CO (e.g. tree planting). Many projects overlap with carbon capture and storage projects, and may not be considered to be climate engineering by all commentators. Techniques in this category include:\n\nMany of the IPCC model projections to keep global mean temperature below 2C, are based on scenarios assuming deployment of negative emissions technologies.\n\nIt is argued that climate change may cross tipping points where elements of the climate system may 'tip' from one stable state to another stable state, much like a glass tipping over. When the new state is reached, further warming may be caused by positive feedback effects. An example of a proposed causal chain leading to more warming is the decline of Arctic sea ice, potentially triggering subsequent release of ocean methane. Evidence suggests a gradual and prolonged release of greenhouse gases from thawing permafrost.\n\nThe precise identity of such \"tipping points\" is not clear, with scientists taking differing views on whether specific systems are capable of \"tipping\" and the point at which this \"tipping\" will occur. An example of a previous tipping point is that which preceded the rapid warming leading up to the Paleocene–Eocene Thermal Maximum. Once a tipping point is crossed, cuts in anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions will not be able to reverse the change. Conservation of resources and reduction of greenhouse emissions, used in conjunction with climate engineering, are therefore considered a viable option by some commentators.\n\nClimate engineering offers the hope of temporarily reversing some aspects of global warming and allowing the natural climate to be substantially preserved whilst greenhouse gas emissions are brought under control and removed from the atmosphere by natural or artificial processes.\n\nEstimates of direct costs for climate engineering implementation vary widely. In general, carbon dioxide removal methods are more expensive than the solar radiation management ones. In their 2009 report \"Geoengineering the Climate\" the Royal Society judged afforestation and stratospheric aerosol injection as the methods with the \"highest affordability\" (lowest costs). More recently, research into costs of solar radiation management have been published. This suggests that \"well designed systems\" might be available for costs in the order of a few hundred million to tens of billions of dollars per year. These are much lower than costs to achieve comprehensive reductions in CO emissions. Such costs would be within the budget of most nations, and even some wealthy individuals.\n\nClimate engineering would represent a large-scale, intentional effort to modify the climate. It would differ from activities such as burning fossil fuels, as they change the climate inadvertently. Intentional climate change is often viewed differently from a moral standpoint. It raises questions of whether humans have the right to change the climate deliberately, and under what conditions. For example, there may be an ethical distinction between climate engineering to minimize global warming and doing so to optimize the climate. Furthermore, ethical arguments often confront larger considerations of worldview, including individual and social religious commitments. This may imply that discussions of climate engineering should reflect on how religious commitments might influence the discourse. For many people, religious beliefs are pivotal in defining the role of human beings in the wider world. Some religious communities might claim that humans have no responsibility in managing the climate, instead seeing such world systems as the exclusive domain of a Creator. In contrast, other religious communities might see the human role as one of \"stewardship\" or benevolent management of the world. The question of ethics also relates to issues of policy decision-making. For example, the selection of a globally agreed target temperature is a significant problem in any climate engineering governance regime, as different countries or interest groups may seek different global temperatures.\n\nIt has been argued that regardless of the economic, scientific and technical aspects, the difficulty of achieving concerted political action on global warming requires other approaches. Those arguing political expediency say the difficulty of achieving meaningful emissions cuts and the effective failure of the Kyoto Protocol demonstrate the practical difficulties of achieving carbon dioxide emissions reduction by the agreement of the international community. However, others point to support for climate engineering proposals among think tanks with a history of global warming skepticism and opposition to emissions reductions as evidence that the prospect of climate engineering is itself already politicized and being promoted as part of an argument against the need for (and viability of) emissions reductions; that, rather than climate engineering being a solution to the difficulties of emissions reductions, the prospect of climate engineering is being used as part of an argument to stall emissions reductions in the first place.\n\nVarious criticisms have been made of climate engineering, particularly solar radiation management (SRM) methods. Decision making suffers from intransitivity of policy choice. Some commentators appear fundamentally opposed. Groups such as ETC Group and individuals such as Raymond Pierrehumbert have called for a moratorium on climate engineering techniques.\n\nThe effectiveness of the techniques proposed may fall short of predictions. In ocean iron fertilization, for example, the amount of carbon dioxide removed from the atmosphere may be much lower than predicted, as carbon taken up by plankton may be released back into the atmosphere from dead plankton, rather than being carried to the bottom of the sea and sequestered. Model results from a 2016 study, suggest that blooming algae could even accelerate Arctic warming.\n\nThe existence of such techniques may reduce the political and social impetus to reduce carbon emissions. This has generally been called a potential moral hazard, although risk compensation may be a more accurate term. This concern causes many environmental groups and campaigners to be reluctant to advocate or discuss climate engineering for fear of reducing the imperative to cut greenhouse gas emissions. However, several public opinion surveys and focus groups have found evidence of either assertions of a desire to increase emission cuts in the face of climate engineering, or of no effect. Other modelling work suggests that the threat of climate engineering may in fact increase the likelihood of emissions reduction.<ref name=\"doi10.1007/s10584-011-0102-0\"></ref>\n\nClimate engineering opens up various political and economic issues. The governance issues characterizing carbon dioxide removal compared to solar radiation management tend to be distinct. Carbon dioxide removal techniques are typically slow to act, expensive, and entail risks that are relatively familiar, such as the risk of carbon dioxide leakage from underground storage formations. In contrast, solar radiation management methods are fast-acting, comparatively cheap, and involve novel and more significant risks such as regional climate disruptions. As a result of these differing characteristics, the key governance problem for carbon dioxide removal (as with emissions reductions) is making sure actors do enough of it (the so-called \"free rider problem\"), whereas the key governance issue for solar radiation management is making sure actors do not do too much (the \"free driver\" problem).\n\nDomestic and international governance vary by the proposed climate engineering method. There is presently a lack of a universally agreed framework for the regulation of either climate engineering activity or research. The London Convention addresses some aspects of the law in relation to biomass ocean storage and ocean fertilization. Scientists at the Oxford Martin School at Oxford University have proposed a set of voluntary principles, which may guide climate engineering research. The short version of the 'Oxford Principles' is:\nThese principles have been endorsed by the House of Commons of the United Kingdom Science and Technology Select Committee on “The Regulation of Geoengineering”, and have been referred to by authors discussing the issue of governance.\n\nThe Asilomar conference was replicated to deal with the issue of climate engineering governance, and covered in a TV documentary, broadcast in Canada.\n\nThere is general consensus that no climate engineering technique is currently sufficiently safe or effective to greatly reduce climate change risks, for the reasons listed above. However, some may be able to contribute to reducing climate risks within relatively short times.\n\nAll proposed solar radiation management techniques require implementation on a relatively large scale, in order to impact the Earth's climate. The least costly proposals are budgeted at tens of billions of US dollars annually. Space sunshades would cost far more. Who was to bear the substantial costs of some climate engineering techniques may be hard to agree. However, the more effective solar radiation management proposals currently appear to have low enough direct implementation costs that it would be in the interests of several single countries to implement them unilaterally.\n\nIn contrast, carbon dioxide removal, like greenhouse gas emissions reductions, have impacts proportional to their scale. These techniques would not be \"implemented\" in the same sense as solar radiation management ones. The problem structure of carbon dioxide removal resembles that of emissions cuts, in that both are somewhat expensive public goods, whose provision presents a collective action problem.\n\nBefore they are ready to be used, most techniques would require technical development processes that are not yet in place. As a result, many promising proposed climate engineering do not yet have the engineering development or experimental evidence to determine their feasibility or efficacy.\n\nIn a 2017 focus group study conducted by the Cooperative Institute for Research in Environmental Sciences (CIRES) in the United States, Japan, New Zealand and Sweden, participants were asked about carbon sequestration options, reflection proposals such as with space mirrors, or brightening of clouds, and their majority responses could be summed up as follows:\nModerators floated then the idea of a future \"climate emergency\" such as rapid environmental change. The participants felt that mitigation and adaptation to climate change were strongly preferred options in such a situation, and climate engineering was seen as a last resort.\n\nMost of what is known about the suggested techniques is based on laboratory experiments, observations of natural phenomena, and on computer modelling techniques. Some proposed climate engineering methods employ methods that have analogues in natural phenomena such as stratospheric sulfur aerosols and cloud condensation nuclei. As such, studies about the efficacy of these methods can draw on information already available from other research, such as that following the 1991 eruption of Mount Pinatubo. However, comparative evaluation of the relative merits of each technology is complicated, especially given modelling uncertainties and the early stage of engineering development of many proposed climate engineering methods.\n\nReports into climate engineering have also been published in the United Kingdom by the Institution of Mechanical Engineers and the Royal Society. The IMechE report examined a small subset of proposed methods (air capture, urban albedo and algal-based capture techniques), and its main conclusions were that climate engineering should be researched and trialled at the small scale alongside a wider decarbonisation of the economy.\n\nThe Royal Society review examined a wide range of proposed climate engineering methods and evaluated them in terms of effectiveness, affordability, timeliness and safety (assigning qualitative estimates in each assessment). The report divided proposed methods into \"carbon dioxide removal\" (CDR) and \"solar radiation management\" (SRM) approaches that respectively address longwave and shortwave radiation. The key recommendations of the report were that \"Parties to the UNFCCC should make increased efforts towards mitigating and adapting to climate change, and in particular to agreeing to global emissions reductions\", and that \"[nothing] now known about climate engineering options gives any reason to diminish these efforts\". Nonetheless, the report also recommended that \"research and development of climate engineering options should be undertaken to investigate whether low risk methods can be made available if it becomes necessary to reduce the rate of warming this century\".\n\nIn a 2009 review study, Lenton and Vaughan evaluated a range of proposed climate engineering techniques from those that sequester from the atmosphere and decrease longwave radiation trapping, to those that decrease the Earth's receipt of shortwave radiation. In order to permit a comparison of disparate techniques, they used a common evaluation for each technique based on its effect on net radiative forcing. As such, the review examined the scientific plausibility of proposed methods rather than the practical considerations such as engineering feasibility or economic cost. Lenton and Vaughan found that \"[air] capture and storage shows the greatest potential, combined with afforestation, reforestation and bio-char production\", and noted that \"other suggestions that have received considerable media attention, in particular \"ocean pipes\" appear to be ineffective\". They concluded that \"[climate] geoengineering is best considered as a potential complement to the mitigation of emissions, rather than as an alternative to it\".\n\nIn October 2011, a Bipartisan Policy Center panel issued a report urging immediate researching and testing in case \"the climate system reaches a 'tipping point' and swift remedial action is required\".\n\nThe National Academy of Sciences conducted a 21-month project to study the potential impacts, benefits, and costs of two different types of climate engineering: carbon dioxide removal and albedo modification (solar radiation management). The differences between these two classes of climate engineering \"led the committee to evaluate the two types of approaches separately in companion reports, a distinction it hopes carries over to future scientific and policy discussions.\"\n\nAccording to the two-volume study released in February 2015:Climate intervention is no substitute for reductions in carbon dioxide emissions and adaptation efforts aimed at reducing the negative consequences of climate change. However, as our planet enters a period of changing climate never before experienced in recorded human history, interest is growing in the potential for deliberate intervention in the climate system to counter climate change. ...Carbon dioxide removal strategies address a key driver of climate change, but research is needed to fully assess if any of these technologies could be appropriate for large-scale deployment. Albedo modification strategies could rapidly cool the planet’s surface but pose environmental and other risks that are not well understood and therefore should not be deployed at climate-altering scales; more research is needed to determine if albedo modification approaches could be viable in the future.The project was sponsored by the National Academy of Sciences, U.S. Intelligence Community, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, NASA, and U.S. Department of Energy.\n\nThe Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) assessed the scientific literature on climate engineering (referred to as \"geoengineering\" in its reports), in which it considered carbon dioxide removal and solar radiation separately. Its Fifth Assessment Report states:Models consistently suggest that SRM would generally reduce climate differences compared to a world with elevated GHG concentrations and no SRM; however, there would also be residual regional differences in climate (e.g., temperature and rainfall) when compared to a climate without elevated GHGs...Models suggest that if SRM methods were realizable they would be effective in countering increasing temperatures, and would be less, but still, effective in countering some other climate changes. SRM would not counter all effects of climate change, and all proposed geoengineering methods also carry risks and side effects. Additional consequences cannot yet be anticipated as the level of scientific understanding about both SRM and CDR is low. There are also many (political, ethical, and practical) issues involving geoengineering that are beyond the scope of this report.\n\n"}
{"id": "195343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=195343", "title": "CorpWatch", "text": "CorpWatch\n\nCorpWatch is a research group based in San Francisco, California, USA. Its stated mission is to expose corporate malfeasance, and to advocate for multinational corporate accountability and transparency.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45503499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45503499", "title": "Democracy Center, Reykjavik Academy, Iceland", "text": "Democracy Center, Reykjavik Academy, Iceland\n\nDemocracy Center was founded in 2007 by Björn S. Stefánsson, dr. scient., as an own enterprice in Reykjavik Academy. The Center´s main task is studies of voting and election methods emphazising \"sequential choice\" and \"fund voting\" and giving consulting service in the field. The activities are presented on the Democracy Center website and by publishing books.\nThe aim is to make Sequential Choice and Fund Voting known the world over. This happens by publishing \"Democracy with Sequential Choice and Fund Voting\" on different languages. This also happens by making people used to take sequential choice and fund voting into account when issues are formed and then submitted for decision. Not least concerns this people in position, members of parliament and people in public administration, national and international.\nThe publishing of \"Democracy with Sequential Choice and Fund Voting\" as a research report from Political Science Institute, Oslo University, made it possible to become acquainted with sequential choice and fund voting in a historical continuity within the theory of group choice and in the light of a different kind of empirical cases in Iceland. Although the monograph was composed to be published by an academic institute it was devised for the informed public. The monograph has been published in 17 languages, on each language as ebook and for some of the languages also in print. Moreover, Democracy Center has published as ebook instructions for the application of sequential choice and fund voting making use of sections in the monograph.\n\nThe work in Democracy Center, besides publishing, is to win experience with sequential choice and fund voting through advice and other assistance. The Center seeks associations, companies, organizations and issues where one can presume that those in responsibility would make it easier by applying sequential choice and fund voting. The Center is positive to applications for assistance and advice.\n\nFor some it may be inevitable that application of sequential choice and fund voting would alter society. The course of events will show. The issue is brought up and considered several times in \"Democracy with Sequential Choice and Fund Voting\".\n"}
{"id": "46391151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46391151", "title": "Duvalle", "text": "Duvalle\n\nDuvalle (fl. 1795) was a Black Carib chief who commanded troops on the leeward side of Saint Vincent after the death of his brother Joseph Chatoyer in the anti-British rebellion of 1795-1796. \n\nHe succeeded Chief Joseph Chatoyer as leader of the Black Caribs/Garifunas of St. Vincent resisting British takeover of the island after Chatoyer was killed on March 14, 1795. While some Caribs fought alongside the British, Duvalle made an alliance with the French.\n\nHis camp was taken by British forces and Duvalle capitulated in October 1796 when the rebellion was crushed and his people deported to Baliceaux.\n\nIn Garifuna memory Chiefs Chatoyer and Duvalle, in an effort to maintain their stronghold in St. Vincent as the only non-enslaved group of black people in the colonial Americas or their time, first fought off the French, then the British, then became allies with the French against the British, only to be betrayed by the French and deported by the British from St. Vincent to Central America.\n"}
{"id": "26267837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26267837", "title": "Economics of climate change mitigation", "text": "Economics of climate change mitigation\n\nThis article is about the economics of climate change mitigation. Mitigation of climate change involves actions that are designed to limit the amount of long-term climate change. Mitigation may be achieved through the reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions or through the enhancement of sinks that absorb GHGs, for example forests.\n\nIn this article, the phrase “climate change” is used to describe a change in the climate, measured in terms of its statistical properties, e.g., the global mean surface temperature. In this context, “climate” is taken to mean the average weather. Climate can change over period of time ranging from months to thousands or millions of years. The classical time period is 30 years, as defined by the World Meteorological Organization. The climate change referred to may be due to natural causes, e.g., changes in the sun's output, or due human activities, e.g., changing the composition of the atmosphere. Any human-induced changes in climate will occur against the “background” of natural climatic variations (see attribution of recent climate change for more information).\n\nThe atmosphere is an international public good and GHG emissions are an international externality (Goldemberg \"et al.\", 1996:,21, 28, 43). Each individual's or country's welfare, \"U\", is a function of its own consumption, \"C\", and the quality of the atmosphere, \"A\", such that \"U\"(\"C\",\"A\"). A change in the quality of the atmosphere, \"A\", does not affect the welfare of all individuals and countries equally. In other words, some individuals and countries may benefit from climate change, but others may lose out.\n\nGHG emissions are unevenly distributed around the world, as are the potential impacts of climate change (Toth \"et al.\", 2001:607). Nations with higher than average emissions that face potentially small negative/positive climate change impacts have little incentive to reduce their emissions. Nations with relatively low levels of emissions that face potentially large negative climate change impacts have a large incentive to reduce emissions. Nations that avoid mitigation can benefit from free-riding on the actions of others, and may even enjoy gains in trade and/or investment (Halsnæs \"et al.\", 2007:127). The unequal distribution of benefits from mitigation, and the potential advantages of free-riding, make it difficult to secure an international agreement to reduce emissions.\n\nMitigation of climate change can be considered a transfer of wealth from the present generation to future generations (Toth \"et al.\"., 2001:607). The amount of mitigation determines the composition of resources (e.g., environmental or material) that future generations receive. Across generations, the costs and benefits of mitigation are not equally shared: future generations potentially benefit from mitigation, while the present generation bear the costs of mitigation but do not directly benefit (ignoring possible co-benefits, such as reduced air pollution). If the current generation also benefitted from mitigation, it might lead them to be more willing to bear the costs of mitigation.\n\nEmissions of carbon dioxide () might be irreversible on the time scale of millennia (Halsnæs \"et al.\", 2007). There are risks of irreversible climate changes, and the possibility of sudden changes in climate. On the other hand, these effects are also true of mitigation efforts. Investments made in long-lived, large-scale low-emission technologies are essentially irreversible. If the scientific basis for these investments turns out to be wrong, they would become \"stranded\" assets. Additionally, the costs of reducing emissions may change over time in a non-linear fashion.\n\nFrom an economic perspective, as the scale of private sector investment in low-carbon technologies increases, so do the risks. Uncertainty over future climate policy decisions makes investors reluctant to undertake large-scale investment without upfront government support. The later section on finance discusses how risk affects investment in developing and emerging economies.\n\nSolow (1992) (referred to by Arrow, 1996b, pp. 140–141) defined sustainable development as allowing for reductions in exhaustible resources so long as these reductions are adequately offset by increases in other resources. This definition implicitly assumes that resources can be substituted, a view which is supported by economic history. Another view is that reductions in some exhaustible resources can only be partially made up for by substitutes. If true, this might mean then some assets need to be preserved at all costs.\n\nIn many developing countries, Solow's definition might not be viewed as being acceptable, since it could place a constraint on their ambitions for development. A remedy for this would be for developed countries to pay all the costs of mitigation, including costs in developing countries. This solution is suggested by both Rawlsian and utilitarian constructs of the social welfare function. These functions are used to assess the welfare impacts on all individuals of climate change and related policies (Markandya \"et al.\", 2001, p. 460). The Rawlsian approach concentrates on the welfare of the worst-off in society, whereas the utilitarian approach is a sum of utilities (Arrow \"et al.\", 1996b, p. 138).\n\nIt might be argued that since such redistributions of resources are not observed now, why would either Rawlsian or utilitarian constructs be appropriate for climate change (Arrow \"et al.\", 1996b, p. 140)? A possible response to this would point to the fact that in the absence of government intervention, market rates of redistribution will not equal social rates.\n\nEconomic growth is a key driver of CO emissions (Sathaye \"et al.\", 2007:707). As the economy expands, demand for energy and energy-intensive goods increases, pushing up CO emissions. On the other hand, economic growth may drive technological change and increase energy efficiency. Economic growth may be associated specialization in certain economic sectors. If specialization is in energy-intensive sectors, then there might be a strong link between economic growth and emissions growth. If specialization is in less energy-intensive sectors, e.g., the services sector, then there might be a weak link between economic growth and emissions growth. Unlike technological change or energy efficiency improvements, specialization in high or low energy intensity sectors does not affect global emissions. Rather, it changes the distribution of global emissions.\n\nMuch of the literature focuses on the \"environmental Kuznets curve\" (EKC) hypothesis, which posits that at early stages of development, pollution per capita and GDP per capita move in the same direction. Beyond a certain income level, emissions per capita will decrease as GDP per capita increase, thus generating an inverted-U shaped relationship between GDP per capita and pollution. Sathaye \"et al.\". (2007) concluded that the econometrics literature did not support either an optimistic interpretation of the EKC hypothesis - i.e., that the problem of emissions growth will solve itself - or a pessimistic interpretation - i.e., that economic growth is irrevocably linked to emissions growth. Instead, it was suggested that there was some degree of flexibility between economic growth and emissions growth.\n\nIn developed countries, energy costs are low and heavily subsidized, whereas in developing countries, the poor pay high costs for low-quality services. Bashmakov \"et al.\". (2001:410) commented on the difficulty of measuring energy subsidies, but found some evidence that coal production subsidies had declined in several developing and OECD countries.\n\nMarket-orientated reforms, as undertaken by several countries in the 1990s, can have important effects on energy use, energy efficiency, and therefore GHG emissions. In a literature assessment, Bashmakov \"et al.\". (2001:409) gave the example of China, which has made structural reforms with the aim of increasing GDP. They found that since 1978, energy use in China had increased by an average of 4% per year, but at the same time, energy use had been reduced per unit of GDP.\n\nLiberalization and restructuring of energy markets has occurred in several countries and regions, including Africa, the EU, Latin America, and the US. These policies have mainly been designed to increase competition in the market, but they can have a significant impact on emissions. Bashmakov \"et al.\". (2001:410) concluded that structural reform of the energy sector could not guarantee a shift towards less carbon-intensive power generation. Reform could, however, allow the market to be more responsive to price signals placed on emissions.\n\n\nAccording to Bashmakov \"et al.\". (2001:422), the most effective and economically efficient approach of achieving lower emissions in the energy sector is to apply a combination of market-based instruments (taxes, permits), standards, and information policies.\n\nThe Kyoto Protocol is an international treaty designed to reduce emissions of GHGs. The Kyoto treaty was agreed in 1997, and is a protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), which had previously been agreed in 1992. The Kyoto Protocol sets legally-blinding emissions limitations for developed countries (\"Annex I Parties\") out to 2008-2012. The US has not ratified the Kyoto Protocol, and its target is therefore non-binding. Canada has ratified the treaty, but withdrew in 2011.\n\nThe Kyoto treaty is a \"cap-and-trade\" system of emissions trading, which includes emissions reductions in developing countries (\"non-Annex I Parties\") through the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM). The economics of the Kyoto Protocol is discussed in Views on the Kyoto Protocol and Flexible mechanisms#Views on the flexibility mechanisms. Cost estimates for the treaty are summarized at Kyoto Protocol#Cost estimates. Economic analysis of the CDM is available at Clean Development Mechanism.\n\nTo summarize, the caps agreed to in Kyoto's first commitment period (2008-2012) have turned out to be too weak. There are a large surplus of emissions allowances in the former-Soviet economies (\"Economies-in-Transition\" - EITs), while several other OECD countries have a deficit, and are not on course to meet their Kyoto targets (see Kyoto Protocol#Annex I Parties with targets). Because of the large surplus of allowances, full trading of Kyoto allowances would likely depress the price of the permits near to zero. Some of the surplus allowances have been bought from the EITs, but overall little trading has taken place. Countries have mainly concentrated on meeting their targets domestically, and through the use of the CDM.\n\nSome countries have implemented domestic energy/carbon taxes (see carbon tax for details) and emissions trading schemes (ETSs). The individual articles on the various ETSs contain commentaries on these schemes - see Kyoto Protocol#International Emissions Trading for a list.\n\nA number of analysts have focussed on the need to establish a global price on carbon in order to reduce emissions cost-effectively. The Kyoto treaty does not set a global price for carbon. As stated earlier, the US is not part of the Kyoto treaty, and is a major contributor to global annual emissions of carbon dioxide (see also greenhouse gas#Regional and national attribution of emissions). Additionally, the treaty does not place caps on emissions in developing countries. The lack of caps for developing countries was based on equity (fairness) considerations (see Kyoto Protocol#Negotiations for more information). Developing countries, however, have undertaken a range of policies to reduce their emissions domestically. The later Cancún agreement, agreed under the UNFCCC, is based on voluntary pledges rather than binding commitments.\n\nThe UNFCCC has agreed that future global warming should be limited to below 2 °C relative to the pre-industrial temperature. Analyses by the United Nations Environment Programme and International Energy Agency suggest that current policies (as of 2011) are not strong enough to meet this target.\n\nInitiatives such as the EU \"cap and trade\" system have also been implemented. \n\nFor the purposes of analysis, it is possible to separate efficiency from equity (Goldemberg \"et al.\", 1996, p. 30). It has been suggested that because of the low energy efficiency in many developing countries, efforts should first be made in those countries to reduce emissions. Goldemberg \"et al.\" (1996, p. 34) suggested a number of policies to improve efficiency, including:\n\nGeneral equilibrium theory\n\nOne of the aspects of efficiency for an international agreement on reducing emissions is participation. In order to be efficient, mechanisms to reduce emissions still require all emitters to face the same costs of emission (Goldemberg \"et al.\", 1996, p. 30). Partial participation significantly reduces the effectiveness of policies to reduce emissions. This is because of how the global economy is connected through trade.\n\nGeneral equilibrium theory points to a number of difficulties with partial participation (p. 31). Examples are of \"leakage\" (carbon leakage) of emissions from countries with regulations on GHG emissions to countries with less regulation. For example, stringent regulation in developed countries could result in polluting industries such as aluminium production moving production to developing countries. Leakage is a type of \"spillover\" effect of mitigation policies.\n\nEstimates of spillover effects are uncertain (Barker \"et al.\", 2007). If mitigation policies are only implemented in Kyoto Annex I countries, some researchers have concluded that spillover effects might render these policies ineffective, or possibly even cause global emissions to increase (Barker \"et al.\", 2007). Others have suggested that spillover might be beneficial and result in reduced emission intensities in developing countries.\n\nComprehensiveness\n\nEfficiency also requires that the costs of emission reductions be minimized (Goldemberg \"et al.\", 1996, p. 31). This implies that all GHGs (CO, methane, etc.) are considered as part of a policy to reduce emissions, and also that carbon sinks are included. Perhaps most controversially, the requirement for efficiency implies that all parts of the Kaya identity are included as part of a mitigation policy. The components of the Kaya identity are:\nEfficiency requires that the marginal costs of mitigation for each of these components is equal. In other words, from the perspective of improving the overall efficiency of a long-term mitigation strategy, population control has as much \"validity\" as efforts made to improve energy efficiency.\n\nUnlike efficiency, there is no consensus view of how to assess the fairness of a particular climate policy (Bashmakov \"et al.\". 2001:438-439; see also economics of global warming#Paying for an international public good). This does not prevent the study of how a particular policy impacts welfare. Edmonds \"et al.\" (1995) estimated that a policy of stabilizing national emissions without trading would, by 2020, shift more than 80% of the aggregate policy costs to non-OECD regions (Bashmakov \"et al.\"., 2001:439). A common global carbon tax would result in an uneven burden of abatement costs across the world and would change with time. With a global tradable quota system, welfare impacts would vary according to quota allocation.\n\nIn a literature assessment, Sathaye \"et al.\". (2001:387-389) described regional barriers to mitigation:\n\n\nArticle 4.2 of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change commits industrialized countries to \"[take] the lead\" in reducing emissions. The Kyoto Protocol to the UNFCCC has provided only limited financial support to developing countries to assist them in climate change mitigation and adaptation. Additionally, private sector investment in mitigation and adaptation could be discouraged in the short and medium term because of the 2008 global financial crisis.\n\nThe International Energy Agency estimates that US$197 billion is required by states in the developing world above and beyond the underlying investments needed by various sectors regardless of climate considerations, this is twice the amount promised by the developed world at the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) Cancún Agreements. Thus, a new method is being developed to help ensure that funding is available for climate change mitigation. This involves financial leveraging, whereby public financing is used to encourage private investment.\n\nThe private sector is often unwilling to finance low carbon technologies in developing and emerging economies as the market incentives are often lacking. There are many perceived risks involved, in particular:\n\nFunds from the developed world can help mitigate these risks and thus leverage much larger private funds, the current aim to create $3 of private investment for every $1 of public funds. Public funds can be used to minimise the risks in the following way.\n\nThe costs of mitigation and adaptation policies can be measured as a change in GDP. A problem with this method of assessing costs is that GDP is an imperfect measure of welfare (Markandya \"et al.\"., 2001:478):\nCorrections can be made to GDP estimates to allow for these problems, but they are difficult to calculate. In response to this problem, some have suggested using other methods to assess policy. For example, the United Nations Commission for Sustainable Development has developed a system for \"Green\" GDP accounting and a list of sustainable development indicators.\n\nThe emissions baseline is, by definition, the emissions that would occur in the absence of policy intervention. Definition of the baseline scenario is critical in the assessment of mitigation costs (Markandya \"et al.\"., 2001:469-470). This because the baseline determines the potential for emissions reductions, and the costs of implementing emission reduction policies.\n\nThere are several concepts used in the literature over baselines, including the \"efficient\" and \"business-as-usual\" (BAU) baseline cases. In the efficient baseline, it is assumed that all resources are being employed efficiently. In the BAU case, it is assumed that future development trends follow those of the past, and no changes in policies will take place. The BAU baseline is often associated with high GHG emissions, and may reflect the continuation of current energy-subsidy policies, or other market failures.\n\nSome high emission BAU baselines imply relatively low net mitigation costs per unit of emissions. If the BAU scenario projects a large growth in emissions, total mitigation costs can be relatively high. Conversely, in an efficient baseline, mitigation costs per unit of emissions can be relatively high, but total mitigation costs low.\n\nThese are the secondary or side effects of mitigation policies, and including them in studies can result in higher or lower mitigation cost estimates (Markandya \"et al.\"., 2001:455). Reduced mortality and morbidity costs are potentially a major ancillary benefit of mitigation. This benefit is associated with reduced use of fossil fuels, thereby resulting in less air pollution (Barker \"et al.\"., 2001:564). There may also be ancillary costs. In developing countries, for example, if policy changes resulted in a relative increase in electricity prices, this could result in more pollution (Markandya \"et al.\"., 2001:462).\n\nFlexibility is the ability to reduce emissions at the lowest cost. The greater the flexibility that governments allow in their regulatory framework to reduce emissions, the lower the potential costs are for achieving emissions reductions (Markandya \"et al.\"., 2001:455).\nIncluding carbon sinks in a policy framework is another source of flexibility. Tree planting and forestry management actions can increase the capacity of sinks. Soils and other types of vegetation are also potential sinks. There is, however, uncertainty over how net emissions are affected by activities in this area (Markandya \"et al.\"., 2001:476).\n\nThese are, by definition, emission reduction options that have net negative costs (Markandya \"et al.\"., 2001:474-475). The presumption of no regret options affects emission reduction cost estimates (p. 455).\n\nBy convention, estimates of emission reduction costs do not include the benefits of avoided climate change damages. It can be argued that the existence of no regret options implies that there are market and non-market failures, e.g., lack of information, and that these failures can be corrected without incurring costs larger than the benefits gained. In most cases, studies of the no regret concept have not included all the external and implementation costs of a given policy.\n\nDifferent studies make different assumptions about how far the economy is from the production frontier (defined as the maximum outputs attainable with the optimal use of available inputs – natural resources, labour, etc. (IPCC, 2007c:819)). \"Bottom-up\" studies (which consider specific technological and engineering details of the economy) often assume that in the baseline case, the economy is operating below the production frontier. Where the costs of implementing policies are less than the benefits, a no regret option (negative cost) is identified. \"Top-down\" approaches, based on macroeconomics, assume that the economy is efficient in the baseline case, with the result that mitigation policies always have a positive cost.\n\nAssumptions about technological development and efficiency in the baseline and mitigation scenarios have a major impact on mitigation costs, in particular in bottom-up studies (Markandya \"et al.\"., 2001:473). The magnitude of potential technological efficiency improvements depends on assumptions about future technological innovation and market penetration rates for these technologies.\n\nAssessing climate change impacts and mitigation policies involves a comparison of economic flows that occur in different points in time. The discount rate is used by economists to compare economic effects occurring at different times. Discounting converts future economic impacts into their present-day value. The discount rate is generally positive because resources invested today can, on average, be transformed into more resources later. If climate change mitigation is viewed as an investment, then the return on investment can be used to decide how much should be spent on mitigation.\n\nIntegrated assessment models (IAM) are used for to estimate the social cost of carbon. The discount rate is one of the factors used in these models. The IAM frequently used is the Dynamic Integrated Climate-Economy (DICE) model developed by William Nordhaus. The DICE model uses discount rates, uncertainty, and risks to make benefit and cost estimations of climate policies and adapt to the current economic behavior. \n\nThe choice of discount rate has a large effect on the result of any climate change cost analysis (Halsnæs \"et al.\"., 2007:136). Using too high a discount rate will result in too little investment in mitigation, but using too low a rate will result in too much investment in mitigation. In other words, a high discount rate implies that the present-value of a dollar is worth more than the future-value of a dollar.\n\nDiscounting can either be prescriptive or descriptive. The descriptive approach is based on what discount rates are observed in the behaviour of people making every day decisions (the private discount rate) (IPCC, 2007c:813). In the prescriptive approach, a discount rate is chosen based on what is thought to be in the best interests of future generations (the social discount rate).\n\nThe descriptive approach can be interpreted as an effort to maximize the economic resources available to future generations, allowing them to decide how to use those resources (Arrow \"et al.\", 1996b:133-134). The prescriptive approach can be interpreted as an effort to do as much as is economically justified to reduce the risk of climate change.\n\nThe DICE model incorporates a descriptive approach, in which discounting reflects actual economic conditions. In a recent DICE model, DICE-2013R Model, the social cost of carbon is estimated based on the following alternative scenarios: (1) a baseline scenario, when climate change policies have not changed since 2010, (2) an optimal scenario, when climate change policies are optimal (fully implemented and followed), (3) when the optimal scenario does not exceed 2oC limit after 1900 data, (4) when the 2oC limit is an average and not the optimum, (5) when a near-zero (low) discount rate of 0.1% is used (as assumed in the Stern Review), (6) when a near-zero discount rate is also used but with calibrated interest rates, and (7) when a high discount rate of 3.5% is used.\n\nAccording to Markandya \"et al.\". (2001:466), discount rates used in assessing mitigation programmes need to at least partly reflect the opportunity costs of capital. In developed countries, Markandya \"et al.\". (2001:466) thought that a discount rate of around 4%-6% was probably justified, while in developing countries, a rate of 10%-12% was cited. The discount rates used in assessing private projects were found to be higher – with potential rates of between 10% and 25%.\n\nWhen deciding how to discount future climate change impacts, value judgements are necessary (Arrow \"et al.\"., 1996b:130). IPCC (2001a:9) found that there was no consensus on the use of long-term discount rates in this area. The prescriptive approach to discounting leads to long-term discount rates of 2-3% in real terms, while the descriptive approach leads to rates of at least 4% after tax - sometimes much higher (Halsnæs \"et al.\"., 2007:136).\n\nEven today, it is difficult to agree on an appropriate discount rate. The approach of discounting to be either prescriptive or descriptive stemmed from the views of Nordhaus and Stern. Nordhaus takes on a descriptive approach which “assumes that investments to slow climate change must compete with investments in other areas.” While Stern takes on a prescriptive approach in which “leads to the conclusion that any positive pure rate of time preference is unethical.” \n\nIn Nordhaus’ view, his descriptive approach translates that the impact of climate change is slow, thus investments in climate change should be on the same level of competition with other investments. He defines the discount rate to be the rate of return on capital investments. The DICE model uses the estimated market return on capital as the discount rate, around an average of 4%. He argues that a higher discount rate will make future damages look small, thus have less effort to reduce emissions today. A lower discount rate will make future damages look larger, thus put more effort to reduce emissions today.\n\nIn Stern’s view, the pure rate of time preference is defined as the discount rate in a scenario where present and future generations have equal resources and opportunities. A zero pure rate of time preference in this case would indicate that all generations are treated equally. The future generation do not have a “voice” on today’s current policies, so the present generation are morally responsible to treat the future generation in the same manner. He suggests for a lower discount rate in which the present generation should invest in the future to reduce the risks of climate change. \n\nAssumptions are made to support estimating high and low discount rates. These estimates depend on future emissions, climate sensitivity relative to increase in greenhouse gas concentrations, and the seriousness of impacts over time. Long-term climate policies will significantly impact future generations and this is called intergenerational discounting. Factors that make intergenerational discounting complicated include the great uncertainty of economic growth, future generations are affected by today’s policies, and private discounting will be affected due to a longer “investment horizon.”\n\nThis is a quantitative type of analysis that is used to assess different potential decisions. Examples are cost-benefit and cost-effectiveness analysis (Toth \"et al.\"., 2001:609). In cost-benefit analysis, both costs and benefits are assessed economically. In cost-effectiveness analysis, the benefit-side of the analysis, e.g., a specified ceiling for the atmospheric concentration of GHGs, is not based on economic assessment.\n\nOne of the benefits of decision analysis is that the analysis is reproducible. Weaknesses, however, have been citied (Arrow \"et al.\"., 1996a:57):\nArrow \"et al.\". (1996a) concluded that while decision analysis had value, it could not identify a globally optimal policy for mitigation. In determining nationally optimal mitigation policies, the problems of decision analysis were viewed as being less important.\n\nIn an economically efficient mitigation response, the marginal (or incremental) costs of mitigation would be balanced against the marginal benefits of emission reduction. \"Marginal\" means that the costs and benefits of preventing (abating) the emission of the last unit of CO-eq are being compared. Units are measured in tonnes of CO-eq. The marginal benefits are the avoided damages from an additional tonne of carbon (emitted as carbon dioxide) being abated in a given emissions pathway (the social cost of carbon).\n\nA problem with this approach is that the marginal costs and benefits of mitigation are uncertain, particularly with regards to the benefits of mitigation (Munasinghe \"et al.\", 1996, p. 159). In the absence of risk aversion, and certainty over the costs and benefits, the optimum level of mitigation would be the point where marginal costs equal marginal benefits. IPCC (2007b:18) concluded that integrated analyses of the costs and benefits of mitigation did not unambiguously suggest an emissions pathway where benefits exceed costs (see economics of global warming#Trade offs).\n\nDamage function\n\nIn cost-benefit analysis, the optimal timing of mitigation depends more on the shape of the aggregate damage function than the overall damages of climate change (Fisher \"et al.\"., 2007:235). If a damage function is used that shows smooth and regular damages, e.g., a cubic function, the results suggest that emission abatement should be postponed. This is because the benefits of early abatement are outweighed by the benefits of investing in other areas that accelerate economic growth. This result can change if the damage function is changed to include the possibility of catastrophic climate change impacts.\n\nIn deciding what role emissions abatement should play in a mitigation portfolio, different arguments have been made in favour of modest and stringent near-term abatement (Toth \"et al.\"., 2001:658):\n\n\nLarge energy subsidies are present in many countries (Barker \"et al.\", 2001:567-568). Currently governments subsidize fossil fuels by $557 billion per year. Economic theory indicates that the optimal policy would be to remove coal mining and burning subsidies and replace them with optimal taxes. Global studies indicate that even without introducing taxes, subsidy and trade barrier removal at a sectoral level would improve efficiency and reduce environmental damage (Barker \"et al.\", 2001:568). Removal of these subsidies would substantially reduce GHG emissions and stimulate economic growth.\n\nThe actual effects of removing fossil fuel subsidies would depend heavily on the type of subsidy removed and the availability and economics of other energy sources. There is also the issue of carbon leakage, where removal of a subsidy to an energy-intensive industry could lead to a shift in production to another country with less regulation, and thus to a net increase in global emissions.\n\nJacobson and Delucchi (2009) have advanced a plan to power 100% of the world's energy with wind, hydroelectric, and solar power by the year 2030, recommending transfer of energy subsidies from fossil fuel to renewable, and a price on carbon reflecting its cost for flood, cyclone, hurricane, drought, and related extreme weather expenses.\n\nAccording to a literature assessment by Barker \"et al.\". (2007:622), mitigation cost estimates depend critically on the baseline (in this case, a reference scenario that the alternative scenario is compared with), the way costs are modelled, and assumptions about future government policy. Fisher \"et al.\". (2007) estimated macroeconomic costs in 2030 for multi-gas mitigation (reducing emissions of carbon dioxide and other GHGs, such as methane) as between a 3% decrease in global GDP to a small increase, relative to baseline. This was for an emissions pathway consistent with atmospheric stabilization of GHGs between 445 and 710 ppm CO-eq. In 2050, the estimated costs for stabilization between 710 and 445 ppm CO-eq ranged between a 1% gain to a 5.5% decrease in global GDP, relative to baseline. These cost estimates were supported by a moderate amount of evidence and much agreement in the literature (IPCC, 2007b:11,18).\n\nMacroeconomic cost estimates made by Fisher \"et al.\". (2007:204) were mostly based on models that assumed transparent markets, no transaction costs, and perfect implementation of cost-effective policy measures across all regions throughout the 21st century. According to Fisher \"et al.\". (2007), relaxation of some or all these assumptions would lead to an appreciable increase in cost estimates. On the other hand, IPCC (2007b:8) noted that cost estimates could be reduced by allowing for accelerated technological learning, or the possible use of carbon tax/emission permit revenues to reform national tax systems.\n\nIn most of the assessed studies, costs rose for increasingly stringent stabilization targets. In scenarios that had high baseline emissions, mitigation costs were generally higher for comparable stabilization targets. In scenarios with low emissions baselines, mitigation costs were generally lower for comparable stabilization targets.\n\nGupta \"et al.\". (2007:776-777) assessed studies where estimates are given for regional mitigation costs. The conclusions of these studies are as follows:\n\nIn a literature assessment, Barker \"et al.\" (2001:563-564), predicted that the renewables sector could potentially benefit from mitigation. The coal (and possibly the oil) industry was predicted to potentially lose substantial proportions of output relative to a baseline scenario (Barker \"et al.\", 2001, pp. 563–564).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12205742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12205742", "title": "Education Commission of the States", "text": "Education Commission of the States\n\nThe Education Commission of the States (ECS) tracks policy, translates research, provides advice and \"creates opportunities for state policymakers to learn from one another\". ECS was founded as a result of the creation of the Compact for Education, an interstate compact approved by Congress and works with all 50 U.S. states, three territories (American Samoa, Guam and Northern Mariana Islands) and the District of Columbia.\n\nThe idea of establishing a compact on education and creating an operational arm to follow up on its goals was originally proposed by James Bryant Conant, president of Harvard University. Between 1965 and 1967, John W. Gardner, president of the Carnegie Corporation of New York and former North Carolina Governor Terry Sanford took up the idea, drafted the proposed Compact, obtained the endorsement of all 50 states and got Congress' approval.\n\nThe organization opened its offices in Denver in 1967 and began administering the National Assessment of Educational Progress (NAEP) test until the Reagan administration in 1982 made the decision to privatize the test, which is now administered by the Educational Testing Service (ETS). That decision threatened the very existence of the Commission, leading to the virtual closing of ECS's Information Clearinghouse, the laying off or early retirement of half of its 117-member staff and a 50% cut in the organization's budget.\n\nEach member jurisdiction (state, territory, and the District of Columbia) has seven seats on the Commission, including the governor and six appointed members, usually including members of the state legislature and education officials, such as the state education commissioner or head of the state education agency.\n\nThe commissioner chairman ship is held by the governor of a member jurisdiction. The term changed from one year to two years in 2002. It alternates between political parties.\n\n"}
{"id": "3697506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3697506", "title": "Eupen-Malmedy", "text": "Eupen-Malmedy\n\nEupen-Malmedy or Eupen-Malmédy is a small, predominantly German-speaking region in eastern Belgium. It consists of three administrative cantons around the small cities of Eupen, Malmedy, and Sankt Vith which encompass some . Elsewhere in Belgium, the region is commonly referred to as the East Cantons (, ).\n\nEupen-Malmedy became part of Belgium in the aftermath of World War I. The region, which had formerly been part of Prussia and the German Empire, was allocated to Belgium by the Treaty of Versailles. It was formally annexed after a controversial referendum in 1920, becoming part of the Province of Liège in 1925. Agitation by German nationalists during the interwar period led to its re-annexation by Nazi Germany during World War II. It was returned to Belgium in 1945. Today, it forms a large component of the German-speaking Community of Belgium, one of Belgium's three federal communities.\n\nHistorically, the territories have little in common. The northern part around Eupen was originally part of the Duchy of Limburg, a dependency of the Duchy of Brabant which was latterly part of the Austrian Netherlands. The Southern part, around Sankt Vith, belonged to the Duchy of Luxembourg. The small village of Manderfeld-Schönberg belonged to the Archbishopric of Trier. Malmedy and Waimes, except the village of Faymonville, were part of the abbatial principality of Stavelot-Malmedy which was an Imperial Estate of the Holy Roman Empire. By the 19th century, the majority of the territory spoke German while the city of Malmedy was split between French and German speakers.\n\nIn 1795, as the French Revolutionary Army entered the Austrian Netherlands, the area was also taken over and eventually incorporated in its entirety into the French department of the Ourthe.\n\nAt the Congress of Vienna, the whole area was awarded to the Kingdom of Prussia. In the northwest of the area, Moresnet, coveted by both the Netherlands and Prussia for its calamine, was declared a neutral territory. After 1830, the 50 percent guardianship of the Netherlands was taken over by newly independent Belgium, and this remained so even after 1839, when Belgium relinquished its claims to neighbouring Dutch Limburg.\n\nThis change did not significantly affect the inhabitants of this region. Even in the mainly French or Walloon speaking Malmedy, changes went smoothly since the municipality was allowed to continue to use French for its administration until the \"Kulturkampf\" when the authorities forbade the use of French.\n\nFor instance, during a visit to the city in 1856, the King Frederick William IV is believed to have said \"I am proud to have in my kingdom a little country where people speak French\". For the people of Malmedy, this would eventually change when German was implemented as the only official administrative language. This was no problem in Eupen and St.Vith but more so in Malmedy-Waimes. There was some resistance to the interdiction: for instance, Roman Catholic priests who were forbidden to preach in French started to preach in Walloon in order to avoid having to preach in German.\n\nMost of the territory had spoken German or German dialects for centuries, with Walloon being spoken by about two-thirds of the population in the district of Malmedy at the time it was newly created in 1816. The overwhelmingly German-speaking district of Sankt Vith further south was, in 1821, united with the district of Malmedy to form a new, much larger district of Malmedy that then had a majority of German-speakers. According to the 1 December 1900 population census this new district of Malmedy had only a minority of 28.7% Walloon-speaking inhabitants. The smaller but more populous district of Eupen was almost entirely German-speaking, with Walloon and French speaking minorities making up less than 5 percent. At the beginning of World War I, most of the inhabitants of the Eupen and Malmedy districts considered themselves German and fought for the German Empire during the war.\n\nDuring World War I, Belgium was invaded by the German Empire and, between 1914 and 1918, much of Belgium's territory was under German military occupation. With the defeat of Germany in 1918, Belgian politicians attempted to expand Belgian territory at German expense. However, the settlement at the Treaty of Versailles proved disappointing for Belgium. Belgium failed to gain any territory from the Netherlands or Luxembourg, but was awarded the small German colonial territory of Ruanda-Urundi in Africa and Eupen-Malmedy in Europe, together with the previously neutral territory of Moresnet. At the time, Eupen-Malmedy had approximately 64,000 residents. Although the Belgian government attempted to depict Eupen-Malmedy as an ethnically Belgian territory, many Belgians were suspicious of the move.\n\nIn 1919, a Transitional Government was established for Eupen-Malmedy by the Belgian government. It was headed by a Belgian general, Herman Baltia. Under the terms of the Treaty, Belgian control over the territory was contingent on the result of a local plebiscite, held between January and June 1920. The plebiscite itself was held without a secret ballot, and organized as a consultation in which all citizens who opposed the annexation had to formally register their protest; just 271 of nearly 34,000 eligible voters did so. The League of Nations accepted the result and the Transitional Government prepared for the unification of Eupen-Malmedy with Belgium in June 1925.\n\nIn June 1925, the Eupen-Malmedy was finally incorporated into the Belgian state as part of the Province of Liège. The inhabitants of the region voted in its first Belgian general election in 1925 and returned a vote in favour of the centre-right Catholic Party. A local centre-right party, the \"Christliche Volkspartei\" (Christian People's Party), emerged by 1929.\n\nThe early Belgian administration of Eupen-Malmedy was paralleled by secret negotiations between Belgian and Weimar German government of Gustav Stresemann over a possible return of the region in exchange for money. The negotiations collapsed in 1926, following the German signature of the Locarno Treaties (1925) guaranteeing Germany's western borders and international pressure.\n\nVarious ethnic German organisations emerged in the Eupen-Malmedy region in the late 1920s, campaigning to promote German culture and the return of the territory to Germany. After the rise to power of Adolf Hitler and the Nazi Party in Germany in 1933, agitation in Eupen-Malmedy increased and many inhabitants began to wear swastika badges. Local socialists began to distance themselves from calls to return to Germany. In 1935, an openly pro-Nazi party emerged locally, known as the \"Heimattreue Front\", which achieved a majority in all three of the Eupen-Malmedy districts in the elections of 1936 and 1939.\n\nIn World War II, Nazi Germany invaded Belgium in May 1940 and rapidly defeated and occupied Belgium for a second time. On 18 May, Hitler announced the re-integration of Eupen-Malmedy into Germany while the rest of the country remained under military occupation. The Belgian government in exile, however, refused to recognise the German annexation and maintained that Eupen-Malmedy was part of Belgium. Administered as part of Nazi Germany, 8,000 local men were conscripted into the German armed forces of whom 2,200 were killed on the Eastern Front. Support for the German takeover eroded sharply after the German invasion of the Soviet Union. The region suffered severely during the Ardennes Offensive of 1944–45 and Sankt Vith, in particular, was nearly totally destroyed by bombing.\n\nAfter the war, the Belgian state reasserted sovereignty over the area, which caused the male inhabitants of the area who had served in the German army to lose their civil rights as \"traitors to the Belgian state\". After the war, the Belgian authorities opened 16,400 investigations into citizens from Eupen-Malmedy, representing around 25 percent of the region's entire population. In comparison, the figure for the rest of Belgium represented less than five percent.\n\nAfter the war, demands to return Eupen-Malmedy to Germany faded. The first regionalist political party, the \"Partei der Deutschsprachigen Belgier\" (Party of German-speaking Belgians, or PDB), emerged in 1971 to argue that greater autonomy to be given to Belgium's German speakers within the newly created federal state but not for regional secession. The PDB's campaign culminated in the creation of the German-speaking Community of Belgium in 1984 which provided cultural autonomy to Belgium's 70,000 German speakers along the same lines as those already negotiated for Belgium's Dutch and French-speaking communities. The nine German-speaking communes of the East Cantons form part of the German-speaking Community while Malmedy and Waimes are part of the French Community. There are protected rights for the minority language in both areas.\n\nThe linguistic situation of the wider area is complex since it lies on the border between the Romance and Germanic languages and on an isogloss dividing several German dialects. In general, over the past decades, the local dialects have lost ground to German and French.\n\nHistorically, in Aubel, Baelen, Plombières, Welkenraedt (neighbouring Belgian municipalities), Eupen, Kelmis and Lontzen, the local languages have been classed as Limburgish, thus dialects of Low Franconian or Dutch. The inhabitants of Raeren have spoken Ripuarian and those of the district of Sankt Vith Moselle Franconian, which are dialects of High German. On the other hand, most of the people living in Malmedy and Waimes speak Walloon or French, with a minority of German speakers. Some of the folklore and carnival traditions there are still in the Walloon language. That is also the case for the children:\n\n\"The New Year's wishes have hardly been uttered when the children start going round from house to house in order to celebrate the three kings. The individual groups sing a song at the doors and demand a “lôtire” for their efforts, in other words a small sweetmeat. They sing in Walloon and say that the kings have sent them.\" \n\nThe East Cantons as a whole should therefore not be confused with the German language region created in 1963 or with the German-speaking Community of Belgium, which does not include the (smaller) Malmedy and Waimes areas.\n\nAt the beginning of the 1920s, the municipalities composing these territories were grouped into three districts: Eupen, Malmedy, and Sankt Vith. The administration was overhauled during the local government reforms of 1976–77, and are now administered as follows: \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\"The Boy Is Gone\", a documentary-animation movie, 2013, director Christoph Bohn"}
{"id": "48792071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48792071", "title": "European Data Portal", "text": "European Data Portal\n\nOn November 16, 2015 the beta version of the European Data Portal was launched. The European Data Portal is an initiative of the European Commission, and is part of the Digital Single Market.\n\nThe European Data Portal was created to gather Public Sector Information of the 28 European Member States and the four EFTA countries. These countries are also referred to as the EU28+.\n\nPublic Sector Information that can be freely re-use for any purpose is commonly referred to as Open Data. The EU28+ countries publish public data on national data portals and geospatial portals. In order to provide one single access point to all of this data, the European Data Portal was created. On the portal, only metadata (data about the data) is shown. This metadata is directly harvested from the existing portals through the use of APIs.\n\nThe data is gathered in order to promote the re-use of the public data. By re-using this data, several benefits can be achieved. These benefits are further detailed in the report Creating Value through Open Data.\n\nThe European Data Portal provides access to the data sets in different ways, via:\n\nHowever, the European Data Portal is not just a repository for public data. The Portal offers different content:\n"}
{"id": "52667330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52667330", "title": "Facing (TV series)", "text": "Facing (TV series)\n\nFacing is a documentary series that portrays the lives of some of the most influential figures in history. The episodes combine archived photos and video footage with first person interviews from individuals who have known or \"faced\" these personalities; no single narrator for the series or any dramatization is involved. Produced by Network Entertainment, it is a five part series telecast on the National Geographic Channel. The series was nominated for the 2017 RealScreen Awards and Leo Awards. In the RealScreen Awards, it won the history/biographical category in a non-fiction series. It bagged several accolades in the Leo Awards including the best documentary program, best direction and best editing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52901510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52901510", "title": "Founder CEO", "text": "Founder CEO\n\nA founder-CEO is an individual who founds a firm and holds its CEO position. If the firm's CEO is not a founder or the founder CEO is succeeded, the firm is said to be led by a non-founder CEO or successor CEO. Research has highlighted differences among founder and non-founder CEOs that influence firm performance. These differences include: stock performance, equity stake in the firm, managerial incentives, innovation investment, and outlook towards mergers and acquisitions.\n\nAccording to some scholars such as Rudiger Fahlenbrach, founder CEOs outperform their non-founder CEO counterparts in both stock performance and market valuation. They tend to take a long-term view and consider their firm their lifetime achievement, resulting in them holding a larger equity stake in their firm than non-founder CEOs. Darius Palia, S. Abraham Ravid, and Chia-Jane Wang developed this idea further and concluded that founder CEOs become less influenced by managerial incentives as they continue to devote resources to their firm whereas the opposite is true for non-founder CEOs. Non-founder CEOs are less invested in their company and are more likely to tailor their performance according to managerial incentives. Scholars such as Joon Mahn Mahn Lee, Jongsoo Jays Kim, and Joonhyung Bae, concluded that founder CEOs continually invest in new projects and explore new knowledge that will benefit the firm in the long-term, suggesting that the existence of a founder CEO is correlated with a greater innovation investment. In terms of mergers & acquisitions, Fahlenbrach, along with other scholars, concluded that founder CEOs partake in a greater number of acquisitions within their core business line each year as they have a greater tolerance for risk. This additional risk taken on by founder CEOs stems from overconfidence at the CEO level which some scholars have measured through their tone in tweets, regarding both earnings announcements and personal statements, and their option exercise behavior relative to non-founder CEOs.\n\nFounder CEO succession can occur through both voluntary and involuntary means. Noam Wasserman found in majority of founder CEO successions, the founder is forced to step down by investors. Founder CEOs who successfully execute product development or enter into negotiations with potential outside investors for additional capital have a higher likelihood of being replaced than those who are not as successful with product development and/or do not to raise additional capital. Indicated by several scholars, like Wasserman, as the CEO becomes successful in product development the needs of the firm expand and a mismatch between the current skills of the founder CEO and the new skills needed for the firm's success going forward is likely to occur, increasing the probability of succession. Founder CEOs are generally succeeded by someone from outside the firm. Founder CEO comebacks have occurred when the founder CEO was replaced and later returned to their role as CEO.\n\nA person or several people can be founders of the firm. The founders earn the founder title once the firm becomes operational at which point their founder role ends. Founders do not have a particular role post founding, but their influence continues as they designed the firm's blueprint impacting structures and decision-making going forward.\n\nEleven percent of US large cap firms are led by founder CEOs, including well-known companies such as Facebook, Netflix, Fedex and Amazon.\n\nSeveral differences identified in research exist between firms led by founder CEOs and non-founder CEOs. Identified differences include stock performance, equity stake, managerial incentives, innovation investment and participation in mergers and acquisitions.\n\nIn November 2009, Fortune Magazine named Steve Jobs, founder of Apple Inc., CEO of the decade. The six runners-up, all founder CEOs, were: Bill Gates, Warren Buffett, Martha Stewart, Bernard Madoff, Sergey Brin and Oprah Winfrey.\n\nAccording to some scholars such as Rudiger Fahlenbrach, firms led by founder CEOs outperform those led by non-founder CEOs, in both stock performance and market valuation. Between the time period of 1993 and 2002 an equally weighted portfolio, consisting of companies led by founder CEOs, would have earned an annual benchmark-adjusted return of 8.3%. In other words, an excess abnormal return of 4.4% annually.\n\nAs of March 2016, 16 companies in the S&P 500 still have founder CEOs, who have been with the company for at least 5 years. In aggregate, these companies have generated a 5-year average return of 170%, significantly greater than the 56% 5-year S&P 500 gain. Of these companies, 14 have outperformed the market over the past three years. These companies include: Facebook, Netflix, Under Armour, Nvidia, Amazon.com, Starbucks, Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, L Brands, VeriSign, FedEx, Salesforce.com, Akamai Technologies, Intercontinental Exchange, and SanDisk.\n\nFahlenbrach, like many other scholars, concluded that founder CEOs have a larger equity stake in the firm, potentially reducing the principal agent problem. Founder CEOs consider their firm their lifetime achievement and therefore take a long-term view. This approach results in the optimal shareholder-value maximizing strategy.\n\nIncentive structures do differ for firms led by founder CEOs and non-founder CEOs as a result of different pay performance sensitivity as concluded by several scholars including Palia, Ravid, and Wang. A statistically significant relationship is present between these two variables for firms led by non-founder CEOs. Non-founder CEOs tend to be less invested in their company and are more likely to tailor their performances according to their pay incentives.\n\nMeanwhile, this relationship is insignificant for founder CEOs, who become less influenced to pay incentives as they devote more time and energy to their firm. This founder CEO attachment to their firm results in lower salaries, which can be seen in a study completed by Noam Wasserman on 528 ventures between the years 1996 and 2002. This results of this study concluded that more than half, 51%, of founder CEOs make either the same salary or one that is lower than someone who reports to them. Additionally, the results showed that founder CEOs receive 20% less in cash compensation than their non-founder CEO counterparts with similar experience.\n\nScholars have indicated that founder CEOs experience greater innovation performance than non-founder CEOs, who tend to be risk averse. Extant research attributes these differences in innovation investment to founder CEOs taking a long-term approach, continually investing in new projects, and exploring new knowledge. Thus suggesting that founder CEOs are not as concerned with job security or impacted by short term performance, therefore, resources are dedicated to long-term resources. Lee, Kim, and Bae found that the existence of a founder CEO is correlated with a 31 percent increase in the citation-weighted patent count before controlling for research and development spending and a 23 percent increase after controlling for research and development spending.\n\nFahlenbrach, along with others concluded founder-CEOs have a greater risk tolerance and partake in a greater number of acquisitions per year than non-founder CEOs. The acquisitions that founder-CEOs make do not diversify their portfolio as the acquisitions tend to be within their core businesses. Joon Mahn Lee, Byoung-Hyoun Hwang, and Hailiang Chen suggested that the additional risks taken on by founder-led firms stem from overconfidence at the CEO level.\n\nFounder-CEOs overconfidence may have negative or positive effect on their firms. In a study completed on the S&P 1500 firms by Lee, Hwang, and Chen, it was concluded that founder CEOs use fewer negative words in both personal tweets and statements regarding earnings. This optimism was observed to exist at the executive level as well. Founder CEOs also provide more optimistic earnings estimates than their non-founder counterparts. Investors are unaware of this overconfidence bias among founder CEOs and take them at face value indicating no discount taken into consideration in the financial markets.\n\nIn a 1988 study completed by researchers at Purdue University, this overconfidence was seen when 3,000 entrepreneurs, founders, claimed there was an 81% chance of success for them and only a 59% chance for peers. One in three of these entrepreneurs believed they had a 100% success rate going forward.\n\nAdditionally, options, which are tied to firm performance, were taken into account in Lee, Hwang, and Chen's study to measure overconfidence as most CEOs, founders or non-founders, are compensated in options to an extent. When analyzing option-exercise behavior using the value of vested in-the-money options to the total compensation, they concluded that founder CEOs had a significantly greater ratio. By comparison, they concluded that non-founder CEOs generally exercise their options immediately when they become exercisable in-the-money to receive cash and remove their compensation linkage to future performance. Founder CEOs, however, hold off on exercising their in-the-money options as they are overly optimistic about the firm's future performance.\n\nIn the three years subsequent to the firm being founded, Wasserman concluded 50% of founder CEOs step down. The following year, another 10% step down and by the time the firm has an initial public offering less than 25% of founders still hold the CEO position. This being said, the decision to step down is not always voluntary, four out of five founder CEOs are forced to relinquish their role as CEO by investors.\n\nAs indicated in Wasserman's study and others, founder CEOs experience higher turnover when they:\n\nWasserman concluded that founder CEOs are almost always replaced by someone outside the organization (outside successor) opposed to someone inside (inside successor). Smaller and younger firms turn tend to turn to outsiders whereas in larger firms the board of directors is disinclined to appoint an outsider successor CEO unless the firm has experienced poor past performance. Relative to inside successors, outside successors are known to make more changes within the firm altering the firms overall business strategy, earn higher compensation, and achieve higher inter-organizational status.\n\nA founder CEO comeback can be defined as a founder CEO who relinquished their role as CEO and later returns to the position. A study completed by Ryan Krause, Abhijith G. Acharya, and Jeffrey G. Covin, on fourteen high-profile Fortune 1000 comeback firms, including Apple, Starbucks, Gateway, Dell, Charles Schwab, Peoplesoft and Google, identified five key conditions attributable to a founder-CEO comeback. The conditions include: poor performance, unplanned succession, founder on board, founder ownership, and interdependent board.\n"}
{"id": "557913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=557913", "title": "Freedom of thought", "text": "Freedom of thought\n\nFreedom of thought (also called freedom of conscience or ideas) is the freedom of an individual to hold or consider a fact, viewpoint, or thought, independent of others' viewpoints. \n\nFreedom of thought is the precursor and progenitor of—and thus is closely linked to—other liberties, including freedom of religion, freedom of speech, and freedom of expression. Though freedom of thought is axiomatic for many other freedoms they are in no way required for it to operate and exist. The conception of a freedom or a right does not guarantee its inclusion, legality, or protection via a philosophical caveat. It is a very important concept in the Western world and nearly all democratic constitutions protect these freedoms. For instance, the Bill of Rights contains the famous guarantee in the First Amendment that laws may not be made that interfere with religion \"or prohibiting the free exercise thereof\". U.S. Supreme Court Justice Benjamin Cardozo reasoned in \"Palko v. Connecticut\" (1937):\n\nSuch ideas are also a vital part of international human rights law. In the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR), which is legally binding on member states of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR), \"freedom of thought\" is listed under Article 18:\n\nThe United Nations' Human Rights Committee states that this, \"distinguishes the freedom of thought, conscience, religion or belief from the freedom to manifest religion or belief. It does not permit any limitations whatsoever on the freedom of thought and conscience or on the freedom to have or adopt a religion or belief of one's choice. These freedoms are protected unconditionally\". Similarly, Article 19 of the UDHR guarantees that \"Everyone has the right to freedom of opinion and expression; this right includes freedom to hold opinions without interference\".\n\nIt is impossible to know with certainty what another person is thinking, making suppression difficult. The concept is developed throughout the Bible, most fully in the writings of Paul of Tarsus (e.g., \"For why should my freedom [\"eleutheria\"] be judged by another's conscience [\"suneideseos\"]?\" 1 Corinthians 10:29).\nAlthough Greek philosophers Plato and Socrates had discussed Freedom of Thought minimally, the edicts of King Ashoka (3rd century BC) have been called the first decree respecting Freedom of Conscience. In European tradition, aside from the decree of religious toleration by Constantine I at Milan in 313, the philosophers Themistius, Michel de Montaigne, Baruch Spinoza, John Locke, Voltaire, Alexandre Vinet, and John Stuart Mill have been considered major proponents of the idea of Freedom of Conscience.\n\nQueen Elizabeth I revoked a thought censorship law in the late sixteenth century, because, according to Sir Francis Bacon, she did \"not [like] to make windows into men's souls and secret thoughts\". During her reign, philosopher, mathematician, astrologer, and astronomer Giordano Bruno took refuge in England from the Italian Inquisition, where he published a number of his books regarding an infinite universe and topics banned by the Catholic Church. After leaving the safety of England, Bruno was eventually burned as a heretic in Rome for refusing to recant his ideas. For this reason, he is considered by some to be a martyr for free thought.\n\nHowever, freedom of expression can be limited through censorship, arrests, book burning, or propaganda, and this tends to discourage freedom of thought. Examples of effective campaigns against freedom of expression are the Soviet suppression of genetics research in favor of a theory known as Lysenkoism, the book-burning campaigns of Nazi Germany, the radical anti-intellectualism enforced in Cambodia under Pol Pot, the strict limits on freedom of expression imposed by the Communist governments of the People's Republic of China and Cuba or by right-wing authoritarian dictatorships such as those of Augusto Pinochet in Chile and Francisco Franco in Spain.\n\nThe Sapir–Whorf hypothesis, which states that thought is inherently embedded in language, would support the claim that an effort to limit the use of words of language is actually a form of restricting freedom of thought. This was explored in George Orwell's novel\" 1984\", with the idea of Newspeak, a stripped-down form of the English language lacking the capacity for metaphor and limiting expression of original ideas.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12333", "title": "G. K. Chesterton", "text": "G. K. Chesterton\n\nGilbert Keith Chesterton, KC*SG (29 May 1874 – 14 June 1936), was an English writer, poet, philosopher, dramatist, journalist, orator, lay theologian, biographer, and literary and art critic. Chesterton is often referred to as the \"prince of paradox\". \"Time\" magazine has observed of his writing style: \"Whenever possible Chesterton made his points with popular sayings, proverbs, allegories—first carefully turning them inside out.\"\n\nChesterton is well known for his fictional priest-detective Father Brown, and for his reasoned apologetics. Even some of those who disagree with him have recognised the wide appeal of such works as \"Orthodoxy\" and \"The Everlasting Man\". Chesterton routinely referred to himself as an \"orthodox\" Christian, and came to identify this position more and more with Catholicism, eventually converting to Catholicism from High Church Anglicanism. George Bernard Shaw, his \"friendly enemy\", said of him, \"He was a man of colossal genius.\" Biographers have identified him as a successor to such Victorian authors as Matthew Arnold, Thomas Carlyle, Cardinal John Henry Newman, and John Ruskin.\n\nChesterton was born in Campden Hill in Kensington, London, the son of Marie Louise, née Grosjean, and Edward Chesterton. He was baptised at the age of one month into the Church of England, though his family themselves were irregularly practising Unitarians. According to his autobiography, as a young man Chesterton became fascinated with the occult and, along with his brother Cecil, experimented with Ouija boards.\n\nChesterton was educated at St Paul's School, then attended the Slade School of Art to become an illustrator. The Slade is a department of University College London, where Chesterton also took classes in literature, but did not complete a degree in either subject.\n\nChesterton married Frances Blogg in 1901; the marriage lasted the rest of his life. Chesterton credited Frances with leading him back to Anglicanism, though he later considered Anglicanism to be a \"pale imitation\". He entered full communion with the Catholic Church in 1922.\n\nIn September 1895 Chesterton began working for the London publisher Redway, where he remained for just over a year. In October 1896 he moved to the publishing house T. Fisher Unwin, where he remained until 1902. During this period he also undertook his first journalistic work, as a freelance art and literary critic. In 1902 the \"Daily News\" gave him a weekly opinion column, followed in 1905 by a weekly column in \"The Illustrated London News\", for which he continued to write for the next thirty years.\n\nEarly on Chesterton showed a great interest in and talent for art. He had planned to become an artist, and his writing shows a vision that clothed abstract ideas in concrete and memorable images. Even his fiction contained carefully concealed parables. Father Brown is perpetually correcting the incorrect vision of the bewildered folks at the scene of the crime and wandering off at the end with the criminal to exercise his priestly role of recognition and repentance. For example, in the story \"The Flying Stars\", Father Brown entreats the character Flambeau to give up his life of crime: \"There is still youth and honour and humour in you; don't fancy they will last in that trade. Men may keep a sort of level of good, but no man has ever been able to keep on one level of evil. That road goes down and down. The kind man drinks and turns cruel; the frank man kills and lies about it. Many a man I've known started like you to be an honest outlaw, a merry robber of the rich, and ended stamped into slime.\"\nChesterton loved to debate, often engaging in friendly public disputes with such men as George Bernard Shaw, H. G. Wells, Bertrand Russell and Clarence Darrow. According to his autobiography, he and Shaw played cowboys in a silent film that was never released.\n\nChesterton was a large man, standing and weighing around . His girth gave rise to a famous anecdote. During the First World War a lady in London asked why he was not \"out at the Front\"; he replied, \"If you go round to the side, you will see that I am.\" On another occasion he remarked to his friend George Bernard Shaw, \"To look at you, anyone would think a famine had struck England.\" Shaw retorted, \"To look at you, anyone would think you have caused it.\" P. G. Wodehouse once described a very loud crash as \"a sound like G. K. Chesterton falling onto a sheet of tin\".\n\nChesterton usually wore a cape and a crumpled hat, with a swordstick in hand, and a cigar hanging out of his mouth. He had a tendency to forget where he was supposed to be going and miss the train that was supposed to take him there. It is reported that on several occasions he sent a telegram to his wife Frances from some distant (and incorrect) location, writing such things as \"Am in Market Harborough. Where ought I to be?\" to which she would reply, \"Home\". (Chesterton himself tells the story, omitting, however, his wife's alleged reply, in ch. XVI of his autobiography.)\n\nIn 1931, the BBC invited Chesterton to give a series of radio talks. He accepted, tentatively at first. However, from 1932 until his death, Chesterton delivered over 40 talks per year. He was allowed (and encouraged) to improvise on the scripts. This allowed his talks to maintain an intimate character, as did the decision to allow his wife and secretary to sit with him during his broadcasts.\n\nThe talks were very popular. A BBC official remarked, after Chesterton's death, that \"in another year or so, he would have become the dominating voice from Broadcasting House.\"\n\nChesterton died of congestive heart failure on the morning of 14 June 1936, at his home in Beaconsfield, Buckinghamshire. His last known words were a greeting spoken to his wife. The homily at Chesterton's Requiem Mass in Westminster Cathedral, London, was delivered by Ronald Knox on 27 June 1936. Knox said, \"All of this generation has grown up under Chesterton's influence so completely that we do not even know when we are thinking Chesterton.\" He is buried in Beaconsfield in the Catholic Cemetery. Chesterton's estate was probated at £28,389, approximately equivalent in 2012 terms to £1.3 million.\n\nNear the end of Chesterton's life, Pope Pius XI invested him as Knight Commander with Star of the Papal Order of St. Gregory the Great (KC*SG). The Chesterton Society has proposed that he be beatified. He is remembered liturgically on 13 June by the Episcopal Church, with a provisional feast day as adopted at the 2009 General Convention.\n\nChesterton wrote around 80 books, several hundred poems, some 200 short stories, 4000 essays, and several plays. He was a literary and social critic, historian, playwright, novelist, Catholic theologian and apologist, debater, and mystery writer. He was a columnist for the \"Daily News\", \"The Illustrated London News\", and his own paper, \"G. K.'s Weekly\"; he also wrote articles for the \"Encyclopædia Britannica\", including the entry on Charles Dickens and part of the entry on Humour in the 14th edition (1929). His best-known character is the priest-detective Father Brown, who appeared only in short stories, while \"The Man Who Was Thursday\" is arguably his best-known novel. He was a convinced Christian long before he was received into the Catholic Church, and Christian themes and symbolism appear in much of his writing. In the United States, his writings on distributism were popularised through \"The American Review\", published by Seward Collins in New York.\n\nOf his nonfiction, \"Charles Dickens: A Critical Study\" (1906) has received some of the broadest-based praise. According to Ian Ker (\"The Catholic Revival in English Literature, 1845–1961\", 2003), \"In Chesterton's eyes Dickens belongs to Merry, not Puritan, England\"; Ker treats Chesterton's thought in Chapter 4 of that book as largely growing out of his true appreciation of Dickens, a somewhat shop-soiled property in the view of other literary opinions of the time.\n\nChesterton's writings consistently displayed wit and a sense of humour. He employed paradox, while making serious comments on the world, government, politics, economics, philosophy, theology and many other topics.\n\nChesterton's writing has been seen by some analysts as combining two earlier strands in English literature. Dickens' approach is one of these. Another is represented by Oscar Wilde and George Bernard Shaw, whom Chesterton knew well: satirists and social commentators following in the tradition of Samuel Butler, vigorously wielding paradox as a weapon against complacent acceptance of the conventional view of things.\n\nChesterton's style and thinking were all his own, however, and his conclusions were often opposed to those of Oscar Wilde and George Bernard Shaw. In his book \"Heretics\", Chesterton has this to say of Wilde: \"The same lesson [of the pessimistic pleasure-seeker] was taught by the very powerful and very desolate philosophy of Oscar Wilde. It is the carpe diem religion; but the carpe diem religion is not the religion of happy people, but of very unhappy people. Great joy does not gather the rosebuds while it may; its eyes are fixed on the immortal rose which Dante saw.\" More briefly, and with a closer approximation of Wilde's own style, he writes in \"Orthodoxy\" concerning the necessity of making symbolic sacrifices for the gift of creation: \"Oscar Wilde said that sunsets were not valued because we could not pay for sunsets. But Oscar Wilde was wrong; we can pay for sunsets. We can pay for them by not being Oscar Wilde.\"\n\nChesterton and Shaw were famous friends and enjoyed their arguments and discussions. Although rarely in agreement, they both maintained good will toward and respect for each other. However, in his writing, Chesterton expressed himself very plainly on where they differed and why. In \"Heretics\" he writes of Shaw:\n\nShaw represented the new school of thought, modernism, which was rising at the time. Chesterton's views, on the other hand, became increasingly more focused towards the Church. In \"Orthodoxy\" he writes: \"The worship of will is the negation of will … If Mr. Bernard Shaw comes up to me and says, 'Will something', that is tantamount to saying, 'I do not mind what you will', and that is tantamount to saying, 'I have no will in the matter.' You cannot admire will in general, because the essence of will is that it is particular.\"\nThis style of argumentation is what Chesterton refers to as using 'Uncommon Sense' – that is, that the thinkers and popular philosophers of the day, though very clever, were saying things that were nonsensical. This is illustrated again in \"Orthodoxy\": \"Thus when Mr. H. G. Wells says (as he did somewhere), 'All chairs are quite different', he utters not merely a misstatement, but a contradiction in terms. If all chairs were quite different, you could not call them 'all chairs'.\" Or, again from \"Orthodoxy\":\n\nThe wild worship of lawlessness and the materialist worship of law end in the same void. Nietzsche scales staggering mountains, but he turns up ultimately in Tibet. He sits down beside Tolstoy in the land of nothing and Nirvana. They are both helpless – one because he must not grasp anything, and the other because he must not let go of anything. The Tolstoyan's will is frozen by a Buddhist instinct that all special actions are evil. But the Nietzscheite's will is quite equally frozen by his view that all special actions are good; for if all special actions are good, none of them are special. They stand at the crossroads, and one hates all the roads and the other likes all the roads. The result is – well, some things are not hard to calculate. They stand at the cross-roads.\n\nChesterton, as a political thinker, cast aspersions on both progressivism and conservatism, saying, \"The whole modern world has divided itself into Conservatives and Progressives. The business of Progressives is to go on making mistakes. The business of the Conservatives is to prevent the mistakes from being corrected.\" He was an early member of the Fabian Society, but resigned from it at the time of the Boer War.\n\nAnother contemporary and friend from schooldays was Edmund Bentley, inventor of the clerihew. Chesterton himself wrote clerihews and illustrated his friend's first published collection of poetry, \"Biography for Beginners\" (1905), which popularised the clerihew form. Chesterton was also godfather to Bentley's son, Nicolas, and opened his novel \"The Man Who Was Thursday\" with a poem written to Bentley.\n\nChesterton faced accusations of anti-Semitism during his lifetime, as well as posthumously. An early supporter of Captain Dreyfus, by 1906 he had turned into an anti-dreyfusard. From the early 20th century, his fictional work included caricatures of Jews, stereotyping them as greedy, cowardly, disloyal and communists.\n\nThe Marconi scandal of 1912–13 brought issues of anti-Semitism into the political mainstream, on the basis that senior ministers in the Liberal government had secretly profited from advanced knowledge of deals regarding wireless telegraphy. Some of the key players were Jewish. Historian Todd Edelman identifies Catholic writers as central critics:\n\nThe most virulent attacks in the Marconi affair were launched by Hilaire Belloc and the brothers Cecil and G. K. Chesterton, whose hostility to Jews was linked to their opposition to liberalism, their backward-looking Catholicism, and their nostalgia for a medieval Catholic Europe that they imagined was ordered, harmonious, and homogeneous.\n\nThe Jew baiting at the time of the Boer War and the Marconi scandal was linked to a broader protest, mounted in the main by the Radical wing of the Liberal Party, against the growing visibility of successful businessmen in national life and their challenge to what were seen as traditional English values.\n\nHistorian Frances Donaldson says, \"If Belloc's feeling against the Jews was instinctive and under some control, Chesterton's was open and vicious, and he shared with Belloc the peculiarity that the Jews were never far from his thoughts.\"\n\nIn a work of 1917, titled \"A Short History of England\", Chesterton considers the royal decree of 1290 by which Edward I expelled Jews from England, a policy that remained in place until 1655. Chesterton writes that popular perception of Jewish moneylenders could well have led Edward I's subjects to regard him as a \"tender father of his people\" for \"breaking the rule by which the rulers had hitherto fostered their bankers' wealth\". He felt that Jews, \"a sensitive and highly civilized people\" who \"were the capitalists of the age, the men with wealth banked ready for use\", might legitimately complain that \"Christian kings and nobles, and even Christian popes and bishops, used for Christian purposes (such as the Crusades and the cathedrals) the money that could only be accumulated in such mountains by a usury they inconsistently denounced as unchristian; and then, when worse times came, gave up the Jew to the fury of the poor\".\n\nIn \"The New Jerusalem\", Chesterton made it clear that he believed that there was a \"Jewish Problem\" in Europe, in the sense that he believed that Jewish culture (though not Jewish ethnicity) separated itself from the nationalities of Europe. He argued that he was quite in favour of a Jew becoming Prime Minister or Lord Chancellor, under the condition, though, that \"every Jew must be dressed like an Arab […] The point applies to any Jew, and to our own recovery of healthier relations with him. The point is that we should know where we are; and he would know where he is, which is in a foreign land.\" He suggested the formation of a Jewish homeland as a solution, and was later invited to Palestine by Jewish Zionists who saw him as an ally in their cause. Later he grew out of the notion of Palestine as a Jewish homeland, and suggested somewhere in Africa instead.\n\nChesterton, like Belloc, openly expressed his abhorrence of Hitler's rule almost as soon as it started. As Rabbi Stephen Wise wrote in a posthumous tribute to Chesterton in 1937 : \nWhen Hitlerism came, he was one of the first to speak out with all the directness and frankness of a great and unabashed spirit. Blessing to his memory!\n\nIn \"The Truth about the Tribes\" Chesterton blasted German race theories, writing: \"the essence of Nazi Nationalism is to preserve the purity of a race in a continent where all races are impure.\"\n\nThe historian Simon Mayers points out that Chesterton wrote in works such as \"The Crank\", \"The Heresy of Race\", and \"The Barbarian as Bore\" against the concept of racial superiority and critiqued pseudo-scientific race theories, saying they were akin to a new religion. In \"The Truth About the Tribes\" Chesterton wrote, \"the curse of race religion is that it makes each separate man the sacred image which he worships. His own bones are the sacred relics; his own blood is the blood of St. Januarius.\"\n\nMayers records that despite \"his hostility towards Nazi antisemitism … [it is unfortunate that he made] claims that 'Hitlerism' was a form of Judaism, and that the Jews were partly responsible for race theory.\" In \"The Judaism of Hitler\" Chesterton wrote \"Hitlerism is almost entirely of Jewish origin.\" In \"A Queer Choice\" Chesterton maintained that the only possible source of \"the Hitlerites\" idea of \"a Chosen Race\" was \"from the Jews.\" In \"The Crank\" Chesterton went on to say: \"If there is one outstanding quality in Hitlerism it is its Hebraism\" and \"the new Nordic Man has all the worst faults of the worst Jews: jealousy, greed, the mania of conspiracy, and above all, the belief in a Chosen Race.\"\n\nMayers also shows that Chesterton didn't just portray Jews as culturally and religiously distinct, but racially as well. Chesterton wrote \"The Feud of the Foreigner\" in 1920, saying that the Jew \"is a foreigner far more remote from us than is a Bavarian from a Frenchman; he is divided by the same type of division as that between us and a Chinaman or a Hindoo. He not only is not, but never was, of the same race.\"\n\nIn \"The Everlasting Man\", while writing about human sacrifice, Chesterton suggested that medieval stories about Jews killing children might have resulted from a distortion of genuine cases of devil-worship. Chesterton wrote: \"the Hebrew prophets were perpetually protesting against the Hebrew race relapsing into an idolatry that involved such a war upon children; and it is probable enough that this abominable apostasy from the God of Israel has occasionally appeared in Israel since, in the form of what is called ritual murder; not of course by any representative of the religion of Judaism, but by individual and irresponsible diabolists who did happen to be Jews.\" Chesterton goes on in the paragraph to speak of \"the enormous [devotional] popularity of the Child Martyr of the Middle Ages\" and of little St. Hugh (figures held to have been ritual victims of Jews).\n\nThe has devoted a whole issue of its magazine, \"Gilbert\", to defending Chesterton against charges of antisemitism.\n\nIn \"Eugenics and Other Evils\" Chesterton attacked eugenics as Britain was moving towards passage of the Mental Deficiency Act 1913. Some backing the ideas of eugenics called for the government to sterilise people deemed \"mentally defective\"; this view did not gain popularity but the idea of segregating them from the rest of society and thereby preventing them from reproducing did gain traction. These ideas disgusted Chesterton who wrote, \"It is not only openly said, it is eagerly urged that the aim of the measure is to prevent any person whom these propagandists do not happen to think intelligent from having any wife or children.\" He blasted the proposed wording for such measures as being so vague as to apply to anyone, including \"Every tramp who is sulk, every labourer who is shy, every rustic who is eccentric, can quite easily be brought under such conditions as were designed for homicidal maniacs. That is the situation; and that is the point … we are already under the Eugenist State; and nothing remains to us but rebellion.\"\n\nHe derided such ideas as founded on nonsense, \"as if one had a right to dragoon and enslave one's fellow citizens as a kind of chemical experiment\".\n\nChesterton also mocked the idea that poverty was a result of bad breeding: \"[it is a] strange new disposition to regard the poor as a race; as if they were a colony of Japs or Chinese coolies … The poor are not a race or even a type. It is senseless to talk about breeding them; for they are not a breed. They are, in cold fact, what Dickens describes: 'a dustbin of individual accidents,' of damaged dignity, and often of damaged gentility.\"\n\nChesterton is often associated with his close friend, the poet and essayist Hilaire Belloc. George Bernard Shaw coined the name \"Chesterbelloc\" for their partnership, and this stuck. Though they were very different men, they shared many beliefs; Chesterton eventually joined Belloc in the Catholic faith, and both voiced criticisms of capitalism and socialism. They instead espoused a third way: distributism. \"G. K.'s Weekly\", which occupied much of Chesterton's energy in the last 15 years of his life, was the successor to Belloc's \"New Witness\", taken over from Cecil Chesterton, Gilbert's brother, who died in World War I.\n\n\nChesterton's fence is the principle that reforms should not be made until the reasoning behind the existing state of affairs is understood (compare to the Precautionary principle). The quotation is from Chesterton's 1929 book, \"The Thing: Why I am a Catholic\", in the chapter, \"The Drift from Domesticity\":\n\nIn the matter of reforming things, as distinct from deforming them, there is one plain and simple principle; a principle which will probably be called a paradox. There exists in such a case a certain institution or law; let us say, for the sake of simplicity, a fence or gate erected across a road. The more modern type of reformer goes gaily up to it and says, 'I don't see the use of this; let us clear it away.' To which the more intelligent type of reformer will do well to answer: 'If you don't see the use of it, I certainly won't let you clear it away. Go away and think. Then, when you can come back and tell me that you do see the use of it, I may allow you to destroy it.'\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57306847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57306847", "title": "George Doundoulakis", "text": "George Doundoulakis\n\nGeorge James Doundoulakis (October 19, 1921 – March 17, 2007) was a Greek American physicist and soldier who worked under British Intelligence during World War II with SOE agent Patrick Leigh Fermor, and then served with the OSS in Thessaly, Greece.\n\nHe is known by his twenty-six US Patents in the fields of radar, electronics, and narrowband television. Doundoulakis is best remembered for the idea of suspending the antenna feed of the Arecibo radio telescope by cables and towers, eventually patented by his brother Helias Doundoulakis.\n\nA decorated veteran of World War II, Doundoulakis formed an underground resistance organization in Crete under the Special Operations Executive. He escaped to Egypt and joined the U.S. Army and Office of Strategic Services – the OSS. He was sent back to Greece, where he outfitted and unified a leftist rebel army, and was awarded the Legion of Merit from the United States Army and the King's Medal for Courage in the Cause of Freedom from Great Britain.\n\nGeorge Doundoulakis was born in Detroit, Michigan to Greek-immigrant parents, Demetrios and Evanthia (née Psaroudakis) Doundoulakis. When he was four-years-old, his family immigrated to Crete, Greece to look after their blind grandmother in the village of Archanes. Nearby was the Minoan excavations at Knossos, where British archaeologist – later, SOE agent – John Pendlebury had been the curator. By 1941, Greece had fallen to the Axis powers except Crete. On May 20, 1941, German paratroopers invaded the island, known as the Battle of Crete.\n\nDuring the Battle of Crete, Doundoulakis assisted the Greek and British army headquarters in Archanes, translating communiqués from other military posts. After the British had been defeated, those soldiers who could not be evacuated either surrendered or went into hiding.\n\n\"Monty\" Woodhouse was appointed SOE chief on Crete, replacing Pendlebury who had been executed by the Germans during the battle. Woodhouse approached Doundoulakis after spotting his savoir-faire as the Greek interpreter in Archanes. He requested that Doundoulakis support the SOE in hiding and evacuating British soldiers who had been left behind on Crete, with full knowledge that his efforts were punishable by death. Undaunted, Doundoulakis formed an underground organization under the command of the SOE's \"Monty\" Woodhouse. This would become one of the first Cretan resistance groups. \nAlong with his brother Helias Doundoulakis and friends, they began scouring the island for recruits. Gathering momentum, Doundoulakis rounded up ex-military personnel and civilians from Heraklion and Lasithi. After Woodhouse left Crete, the SOE replaced him with \"Tom\" Dunbabin. Risky sabotages under his watch were performed, such as the destruction of the Kastelli Airfield.\nAlong with friend Kimon Zografakis and two English commandos, Doundoulakis was able to set the airfield on fire after they placed explosives on seven German airplanes and hundreds of barrels of aviation fuel.\nInformants also uncovered German naval intelligence through a paramour of a German officer. After being relayed to Dunbabin, it resulted in the destruction of a German convoy destined to resupply Field Marshal Erwin Rommel and his Afrika Korps in September 1942. After the war, Doundoulakis was awarded the King's Medal for Courage in the Cause of Freedom from Great Britain for his services. Thomas Dunbabin was awarded the Distinguished Service Order by the British military.\n\nDunbabin finally left, and the SOE followed him up with the legendary Patrick Leigh Fermor, known to the Cretans as \"Mihalis.\" George's intelligence circle grew exponentially. George and Leigh Fermor, along with guerrilla leader Manolis Bandouvas, would take refuge within the mountainous SOE hideouts of Mount Ida.\nAfter serving under the SOE for two years, Doundoulakis’ ever-widening organization became apparent. He was blackmailed by a local Cretan who demanded one million drachmas as hush money. Otherwise, his organization and the SOE's Leigh Fermor would be let known to the Germans. Refusing the blackmail, Doundoulakis sent high school friends Sifis Migadis and John Androulakis to dispose of the traitor. However, they were too late in stopping the betrayal to the Gestapo. \nLeigh Fermor urged Doundoulakis to take flight at once to Crete's southern shore, and await evacuation by the SOE. They escaped through Mount Ida and the mountain ranges of Rethymno with others in his organization. After hiding in caves for a month, they were rescued by a British torpedo boat south of Tymbaki. Along with thirteen other resistance members, they headed to Mersa Matruh, Egypt. As they were about to board, Doundoulakis reunited with Leigh Fermor and partisan leader Petrakogiorgis. Petrakogiorgis had returned to Crete on the same vessel carrying the Doundoulakis brothers to Egypt on June 7, 1943. They would not see Leigh Fermor for another forty years. Leigh Fermor and \"Billy\" Stanley Moss became renowned after the war in the British book and film, \"Ill Met by Moonlight\", for their abduction of German General Kreipe from Crete. After reaching Mersa Matruh, Doundoulakis and his brother, as well as his close circle of friends, were transported to an SOE villa in Heliopolis. They were destined for SOE saboteur training upon the entreaty of Leigh Fermor, while the other escapees went off to the exiled Greek Army in the Middle East.\nBefore leaving Crete, Doundoulakis instructed Mikis Akoumianakis to assume command of the organization that he had begun.\nMikis Akoumianakis \"took over the Allied intelligence network in Heraklion and became the key British agent in the region for the last three years of the war.\" Later, along with Leigh Fermor and \"Billy\" Moss, he would become a key player in the kidnap of General Kreipe from Crete.\nTwo months of training at the lavish SOE villa in Heliopolis, Cairo, came to an abrupt end when Doundoulakis learned of the Office of Strategic Services, the OSS. Doundoulakis contacted the fledgling American spy service that would become a key player in the Doundoulakis brothers' future. With help from Leigh Fermor, he informed the SOE commander of his intentions to join the American Army. Much to the SOE's dismay, George and Helias ultimately departed as comrade-in-arms and with hopes of defeating their common enemy.\nThe OSS dispatched Captain James Kellis to enlist the Doundoulakis brothers into the US Army on September 16, 1943, and were assigned to the OSS. Their Commanding Officer was Major John Vassos, RCA's eminent industrial designer. Agents were trained inside a secluded palace of King Farouk's situated along Cairo's Nile River, known as Ras el Kanayas. Doundoulakis was trained in the Morale Operations (MO) and Special Operations (SO) branches. \n\nSpecial Operations was modeled after the SOE, which included parachute, sabotage, defensive, weapons, and leadership training to support guerrilla or partisan resistance. Morale Operations training included psychological warfare and propaganda. After his training, Doundoulakis was sent to the port city of Volos, Greece in Thessaly. His mission, known as \"Horsebreeders,\" was to coordinate some 7,000 Greek leftist rebels into a unified fighting force. Doundoulakis provided the necessary logistic sustainment that included weapons, a printing press, clothing, and materials for his secret army through OSS bases in Turkey. He had printed and distributed leaflets intended for German soldiers and Greek collaborators, to subvert their confidence while encouraging the Greek population to resist. They were able to inflict enough damage to Volos’ railroad transportation hub and its maritime shipping, that it contributed to the demise of the German supply line near Athens. The Germans were unable to remove Doundoulakis and the leftist rebels hidden in the impassable Pelion Mountains. Unrelenting attacks upon German communications and railway links led to an overwhelming success. Doundoulakis was promoted to first sergeant and awarded the Legion of Merit in OSS-Cairo.\n\nHis brother, Helias Doundoulakis, was trained at Cairo's Camp X-type 'Spy School' where he was sent on a mission to Salonica, Greece. There, Helias set up a fake business from a bombed-out factory once owned by Greek Jews who had fled from Nazi persecution. He remained embedded in Salonica from April to December 1944, sending encrypted radio messages to OSS-Cairo on German troop movements.\nGeorge Doundoulakis spent the remainder of his enlistment at the Congressional Country Club in Bethesda, MD, which had been commandeered by \"Wild Bill\" Donovan's OSS as a training ground known by its codename \"Area F\". Following his discharge, Doundoulakis settled in Brooklyn, NY.\n\nAfter settling in Brooklyn, New York, Doundoulakis received a bachelor's degree in physics from Brooklyn Polytechnic in 1953 under the GI Bill. He went on to earn his master's of science in physics at Brooklyn Polytechnic under renowned physicist and X-ray crystallographer, Paul Peter Ewald in 1955.\n\nAfter receiving his master's of physics from Brooklyn Polytechnic, Doundoulakis found his metier in electronics, radio physics and the advancing field of radar and television. Tutored by Ira Kamen, one of the preeminent electrical engineers in New York City at the RCA Institutes, Doundoulakis gained a solid foothold in the field. Subsequently, he taught electronics at the RCA Institutes. In 1956, Doundoulakis and Ira Kamen filed their first US patent.\n\nSeeing the potential of this rising star in a rapidly developing field, Doundoulakis was hired by General Bronze Corporation in Garden City, New York as head of Research and Development (R&D). At the time, General Bronze was dedicated to pioneering and taking the lead in the commercial market of antenna designs. Along with Stanley Gethin, he copyrighted antenna and radar-related projects for General Bronze.\n\nAs the head of Research and Development for General Bronze, Doundoulakis was notified by Cornell University of their intent to build a radio telescope. Subsequently, he was invited to Cornell the day the project for the design and construction of the antenna at Arecibo, Puerto Rico was announced, by Professor William Gordon. Gordon, who led the project for Cornell, indicated at that time that the support for the antenna feed – or \"eye\" – was envisioned to be a 500-foot tower situated in the center of the 1000 ft. reflector.\n\nDoundoulakis, foreseeing a simpler approach with a suspended antenna feed, leapt at the opportunity. Along with Zachary Sears – who directed Internal Design at Digital B & E Corporation of New York – he received the request for proposal (RFP) from Cornell University for the antenna design. He studied the idea of suspending the antenna feed with his brother, Helias Doundoulakis, a civil engineer who was then working for Emery Roth. Doundoulakis identified the problem that a tower or tripod would have presented around the center, which is the most critical portion of the reflector. Instead, Doundoulakis' proposal of a revolutionary design, by suspending the feed from cables connected to towers, was more practical. Rather than having a massive tower in the center of the reflector, his design would save millions in construction costs.\n\nHe presented his proposal to Cornell University for a suspension system of the feed. This suspension system would possess a doughnut or torus-type truss suspended by four cables from four towers, to provide along its edge a rail track intended for azimuthal positioning of the feed. A second truss in the form of an arch was to hang below and rotate on said rails through 360 degrees. The arch also provided rails onto which the unit supporting the feed would move to provide for the elevational positioning of the feed. A counter-weight would move symmetrically opposite to the feed position for overall stability. \nGeorge informed his brother, Helias Doundoulakis, to design the cable suspension system which was finally adopted for the Arecibo Antenna. A patent was filed on September 11, 1961, by Helias Doundoulakis for \"A radio telescope having a scanning feed supported by a cable suspension over a stationary reflector\" who designed the suspension system according to George's specifications. Although the present configuration of the Arecibo Antenna is identical to the original drawings by George and Helias Doundoulakis (except with three towers, instead of the four towers drawn in Doundoulakis’ patent), the United States Patent and Trademark Office finally granted Helias Doundoulakis a U.S. Patent on September 13, 1966 – for designing the radio telescope's suspension system. \nTwo other assignees on the patent were close friends William J. Casey, ex-director of the CIA under President Reagan, and attorney Constantine Michalos.\n\nIn the 1950s, Doundoulakis began his own company dedicated to pursuing his patent designs and applying them to the market. \n\"Advancement Devices\" was launched, under which William J. Casey first heard of the inventor. In WWII, Casey had been chief of the OSS' Secret Intelligence branch for Europe. He learned that Doundoulakis also served in the OSS, and had secured a contract from the \"Army Signal Corps to produce a radar that could measure the trajectory of a mortar shell. But he lacked the capital to follow through on his bid.\" Following this lead, Casey ensured that all the necessary funding would accompany Doundoulakis’ future projects. Under Advancement Devices, and with contributions from Casey, Doundoulakis developed a stream of patents for electronics, television, and internal ballistic engines. \n\nOne patent, the tri-rotor engine, became a matter of contention with the IRS in back taxes owed by Casey to the IRS. Nonetheless, the Doundoulakis/Casey business partnership would beget a life-long friendship from, \"the inventor who he had long subsidized.\" Their bond was not only grounded in their prior service with the OSS but in an alliance that continued throughout Casey’s Congressional hearings prior to his SEC (Securities and Exchange Commission) post. Doundoulakis was called to testify before the United States Congress on Casey's behalf. He eventually was sworn in and became head of the Securities and Exchange Commission under President Nixon. Afterward, under the presidency of Ronald Reagan, Casey was appointed the director of the Central Intelligence Agency.\n\nGeorge married Chrysanthe \"Chris\" (Markomihalakis) in Brooklyn, New York, where they settled after the war, resettling in North Bellmore, New York. They had two sons and one daughter, and three grandchildren. \n\nDuring the 1980s, Leigh Fermor visited and stayed with George at his North Bellmore home. Leigh Fermor visited him during one of the many celebrations for the Battle of Crete and the abduction of Gen. Kreipe, punctuating a friendship which had endured throughout both their lives.\n\nGeorge Doundoulakis died on March 17, 2007, and was buried with military honors in Greenfield Cemetery, Uniondale, New York.\n\n\n\nGeorge Doundoulakis portrayed himself, along with Patrick Leigh Fermor in the 2005 movie, \"\" .\n\n"}
{"id": "4649125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4649125", "title": "Georgia Political Science Association", "text": "Georgia Political Science Association\n\nThe Georgia Political Science Association (GPSA) is the professional association for political scientists in Georgia, United States. Founded in 1968, the GPSA holds an annual conference in Savannah, Georgia in November. Conference participants are from Georgia, other U.S. states, and overseas. Although political scientists are in the majority, the conference is definitely interdisciplinary. Participants have included political scientists, historians, economists, humanists, sociologists, criminologists, anthropologists, public administrators, philosophers, students, interested non-academics and many others. Currently, the membership numbers around 200 political scientists teaching in Georgia. The GPSA publishes a refereed online proceedings of the conference.\n\nBoth the University System of Georgia Board of Regents Academic Advisory Committee for Political Science and the European Union Studies Certificate Steering Committee traditionally meet during the conference.\n\nThe GPSA Board of Directors consists of seven officers and eight at-large board members. The GPSA Vice President and program chair organizes the annual conference program from proposals received by July 1 of each year. Panels and roundtables are assembled from the accepted proposals and individual papers. Seven sessions of four concurrent panels each are spread over two days. Four to six presentations are assigned to each panel. All interested persons may submit proposals.\n\nThe GPSA has several awards. The McBrayer Award and an accompanying $500.00 cash prize is awarded in years when a paper of outstanding scholarship within the academic discipline of political science is presented in its entirety at the conference. The Donald T. Wells Award is given annually to a member for recognition of outstanding service to the Georgia Political Science Association. The Roger N. Pajari Undergraduate Paper Award is given annually to the best undergraduate paper submitted to meet the requirements of an undergraduate political science course taught in the state of Georgia and nominated by the professor teaching the course.\n\nGPSA members participate in the activities of the American Political Science Association, Southern Political Science Association and the American Society for Public Administration. Question in Politics (QiP) is the scholarly journal of the Georgia Political Science Association. The first volume of QiP was published in 2013 and this journal is the continuation of the earlier Proceedings of the Georgia Political Science Association.\n\n"}
{"id": "26772279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26772279", "title": "Gladys Kalema-Zikusoka", "text": "Gladys Kalema-Zikusoka\n\nGladys Kalema-Zikusoka (born 8 January 1970) is a veterinarian and founder of Conservation Through Public Health, an organisation dedicated to the coexistence of endangered mountain gorillas, other wildlife, humans, and livestock in Africa. She was Uganda's first wildlife veterinary officer and was the star of the BBC documentary, \"Gladys the African Vet\". In 2009 she won the Whitley Gold Award for her conservation work.\n\nInterested in animals since the age of 12 while growing up in Kampala, Kalema-Zikusoka started a wildlife club at her school and organised trips to Queen Elizabeth National Park. Her professional studies began when she won a scholarship to study at the University of London Royal Veterinary College, graduating with a Bachelor of Veterinary Medicine . Later, in 2003, she obtained a Master of Veterinary Medicine from North Carolina State University. She also holds a certificate in the management of non-profit organizations, obtained from Duke University. Her most recent academic achievement is a Master of Business Administration, obtained in 2016.\n\nKalema-Zikusoka is married to Lawrence Zikusoka, a technology entrepreneur and one of the co-founders of Conservation Through Public Health. They have two children.\n\nWhen Kalema-Zikusoka was 25, she was appointed to be the veterinary officer for the Ugandan Wildlife Service, which later merged with Uganda's national parks to become the Uganda Wildlife Authority. She was first woman to hold that position. She pioneered the first wildlife translocation to restock Uganda's national parks following years of poaching during Uganda's civil wars.\n\nAs part of her veterinary research, she identified parasite transmission from humans to mountain gorillas as a significant risk factor for gorillas.\n\nFollowing her demonstration of pathways for human diseases to harm or kill gorillas, Gladys Kalema-Zikusoka, Lawrence Zikusoka, and Stephen Rubanga then founded Conservation Through Public Health to improve both human and ecological health in Africa. CTPH is a non-profit organisation based in Uganda and the USA that conducts programs that protect gorillas and other wildlife from human and livestock disease risk; that reduce human and livestock diseases in the vicinity of wildlife; that increase the local use of family planning; and that use Information/Communication Technology both to help local development and to educate people about the environment. Kalema-Zikusoka is the CEO of the organisation.\n\nCTPH was founded in 2003. In 2015, CTPH established a program called \"Gorilla Conservation Coffee\". Under this arrangement, the non-profit improves the livelihood of the surrounding community by assisting in getting international market prices for the community's Arabica coffee crop. With increased incomes, the community's illnesses and disease burden is reduced. Hence less disease is transferred to the resident gorillas. Also, a small fee is charged and retained by the farmers, whenever tourists traverse their gardens, when on gorilla treks through the community.\n\nKalema-Zikusoka has received a number of honours, awards, and other public recognitions of her environmental and humanitarian work. In 2009, she won the Whitley Gold Award, the top prize awarded in what has been considered the \"Green Oscars\". In 2008, the San Diego Zoo gave her its Conservation-in-Action Award. In 2006, Kalema-Zikusoka was elected to an . In 2007, Seed Magazine named her one of their eight Revolutionary Minds in Science.\n\nKalema-Zikusoka was profiled in the BBC documentary, Gladys the African Vet. She has also been featured in documentaries in National Geographic, Animal Planet, MNet and Uganda Television.\nShe was chosen among nine international environmental leaders to write a letter to the next US President in Sierra Club Magazine, November/December 2008 issue.\n\nIn 2018, Dr. Kalema-Zikusoka was awarded the EarthCare Award by the United States-based Sierra Club, in recognition of her \"unique contribution to international environmental protection and conservation\", as related to her work in environmental protection and co-existence between communities and mountain gorillas in Uganda. She received the award on 29 September 2018, at a ceremony that was held in Denver, Colorado, in the United States.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18584673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18584673", "title": "Haji Muhammad Adeel", "text": "Haji Muhammad Adeel\n\nHaji Muhammad Adeel () (25 October 1944 – 18 November 2016) was a Pakistani senator and senior vice president of the Awami National Party.\n\nA Hindko speaker, was from a family of anti-imperialists, the son of Hakeem Abdul Jalil (Hakeem Sahib was actively involved in the non violence movement, Khudai Khidmatgar against the British Empire in the subcontinent and was the president of All India National Congress Committee Peshawar District and a close colleague of Bacha Khan and Mahatama Gandhi and Member of Central working committee of Congress.\n\nDuring his political career he served as finance minister and deputy speaker in the provincial government of Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa. He was the senator and represented Khyber Pakhtunkhwa in the National Finance Commission of Pakistan.\n\nCommittee(s) :\nHaji Adeel was member of following standing committees\nStanding Committee on Interior\nStanding Committee on Defence and Defence Production\nStanding Committee on Textile Industry\nStanding Committee on Information and Broadcasting\nFunctional Committee on Problems of Less Developed Areas\n\nHis senate tenure started in March 2009 and conclude in March 2015\n\nParliamentary Leader in Senate of Pakistan President, Awami National Party (ANP) Pakistan.\nChairman Election Commission of ANP.\nCoordinator ANP Lawyers.\nMember Central & Provincial Executive Committees of ANP.\nMember, National Executive Committee, Pakistan India People Forum for Peace and Democracy.\nMember of National Steering Committee INSA (Imagine a New South Asia).\n\nHaji Adeel was a believer of Pakistan and India friendship. He was very active in campaign and led the caucus of parliamentarians for New South Asia. In 2010, Haji Muhammad Adeel declared Hindu Raja Dahir as the hero of the Pashtuns over Muhammad bin Qasim(Arab general).\n\nHaji Adeel also supported various initiatives for Sustainable Development in Pakistan. He supported Pakistani civil society organizations and South Asian Rights groups.\n\nHaji Muhammad Adeel died of renal failure at Combined Military Hospital Peshawar on 18 November 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "33925852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33925852", "title": "Hollow state", "text": "Hollow state\n\nThe term Hollow State is used to describe a set of governmental practices in which states contract with third parties (private companies) in order to distribute government services. In a hollow state there are many degrees of separation between the source of taxpayer funds and the final distribution of taxpayer-funded products or services. Services paid for by the state are produced by a vast network of providers and the task of the government is not to manage provision, but to negotiate contracts with providers. There is no \"command and control\" relationship between government and contractors. Contracts are managed by countless agencies and even more providers, there is no means of central record keeping or data management. A Hollow State has all the standard edifices of governance although most are under the influence of third-party organizations, either for-profit or non-profit entities.\n\nThe history of government contracting goes back thousands of years to when Mercenary bands were utilized by the ancient Greeks, Persians, and Romans. In the United States, the history of government contracting is rooted in the history of English civil service. Throughout the 1600s, educated Englishmen could make a career out of negotiating the procurement of goods for local government, especially for the English military. This system was how much of the English military procurement was carried out, and was brought to the colonies by English settlers. The English military in the colonies was expected to obtain their own supplies locally. To this end, most military outfits employed a commissary general to obtain food and related supplies, and a quartermaster general to obtain supplies for construction, transportation, and weaponry. These officers had the authority to contract with local farmers and merchants. A version of this system was implemented by the Continental Congress during the American Revolution. This trend continued through the American Civil War and has grown and evolved into the modern system of government procurement. The United States government increasingly implements policy through a complicated network of providers. The system relies on the collaboration of multiple levels of government, for-profit, and non-profit entities.\n\nThe history of the term \"Hollow State\" is shorter than the history of the practice, as capitalism emerged as a dominant social force, so did the influence of private contractors on government leaders. Brinton Milward, Director of the School of Government and Public Policy at the University of Arizona, uses the term Hollow State as a metaphor to describe the process and consequences of excessive government contracting.\n\nExamples of modern Hollow State iterations include:\n\nThe primary purpose of the hollow state is to function as a multi-organizational structure through which policy is designed and executed. The metaphor \"Hollow State\" is meant to be understood as a system consisting of units of government separated from their outputs but still linked by negotiation or contract. When nonprofit organizations receive contracts or grants to deliver public goods or services, the delegating agency assumes a sufficient level of capacity to implement the project or deliver the service. However, if the nonprofit community-based organizations are too limited in capacity to carry out their grants or contracts, then a disconnect occurs in the hollow state.\n\nOne of the primary reasons privatization occurs is because of the severe capacity that limitations force the government to contract for services it does not have the ability to provide. Usually this would involve a private development network supported by a public administration like the Chamber of Commerce and several private businesses. There are 2 types of networks that exist in the hollow state: horizontal and vertical. Horizontal networks consist of 3 types, policy making, resource exchange, and project based, all of which are between governments and non-governmental organizations. Vertical networks are the collaborations that occur between federal, state, and local governments.\n\nThe purpose of this collaboration is to devise strategy for business retention, expansion, or recruitment. The reason city economics developers reach out to surrounding organizations and become multiple networks is due to the fact economic policy is designed and implemented under ambiguity and uncertainty. As complexities increase, grassroots initiatives become more sought after. Most nonprofit organizations are started with passion and enthusiasm for resolving a particular issue. Many of these are the small grassroots or community-based nonprofits that meet important human service needs for a specific geographic area or population. Furthermore, the need for more nongovernmental actors to deliver local services hence more actors equates to more hollowing of the state. In fact publicly funded social services are an increasingly important component of social provision spending and accounft for approximately one-fifth to today's welfare state expenditures. Substituting from a stable, linear government for complex networks may raise questions of allocation deliberations being solely prompted by cost/ efficiency not taking into account taxpayers other values.\n\nThe Hollow State refers to the extent to which governments are directly involved in providing services. Contracting out is when government allows a non-government institution to operate under the governments name to provide a public service. Hollowing out of government by allocating services to private organizations has three imperatives: the need to attract investment to compensate for lost revenues and meet the political imperatives set by the country and provincial governments; the need to receive inspection teams from higher levels of government; and \"soft centralization\" of township bureaus, which are placed under country or provincial government control.\n\nAdvocates of privatization often make the point that government can provide or arrange for citizens to receive a service without the government actually providing it, by contracting out. A government intent on privatization would decide what it wanted done and then contract with the private sector to provide the good or the service. The federal government has always relied on state and local governments to distribute and provide services with money funded by the federal level. However, community-based development organizations have problems with accountability, responsiveness, and sometimes lose their connections with municipalities. This can lead to experiencing disparities in fundraising, fiscal and human resource management practices, and even skills in building and maintaining partnerships and gaining political support.\n\nContracting out or privatization also redirects the funds that would otherwise go to the state and local government to private organizations. It can be said that there is a negative relationship between the neighborhoods where the central offices of those organizations are located, and neighborhood disadvantage, largely because so many distributive organization headquarters are located in downtown, higher-income areas. Government funding of nonprofit agencies in the United States of America increased during the grant-in-aid explosion of the 1960s and 1970s and continued during the Reagan and Bush administrations under the banners of privatization, limited budgets, and getting government off the backs of those it regulates. It should be noted that not all states who adopt the Hollow State find it successful and more often than not those states fail and lose their political goods.\n\nThere are several outspoken criticisms of government contracting practices. Critics claim the hollow state can be inefficient, dangerous, and may violate human rights. The hollow state can effectively destroy a society's interests in humanities as money leads to a monopoly and/or oligarchy. A hollow state can be unreliable. When a government sector contracts out, there can be many problems. The hollow state is exemplified by increased reliance on third-party producers, which may result in a lack of oversight expertise in government. Contracting private organizations for warfare can lead to unethical methods and the hollow state can effectively destroy a society's interests in humanities as money leads to a monopoly and/or oligarchy.\n\nThe problems of managing non-governmental, contracted organizations are extensive and severe. The number of degrees of separation between the source of funds and the implementation of those funds creates diminishing quality of returns with each new layer. Managers at every level are forced to deal with an uncertain budget cycle, long waits for payment for services rendered, financial crises, billing problems, frequently changing and contradictory rules and much more. Another thing to consider is the existence of the \"principle-agent\" issue, wherein the \"principle\" (the person giving the contract) can never have as much information about the requirements of the job than the \"agent\" (the one being contracted). This information disparity causes the principle to have unrealistic expectations and allows the agent to mislead the principle as to aspects such as cost, time, and human resources.\n\nAdministrations that already exist within a country moving toward a Hollow State begin to be parsed in seemingly innocent fashion. In the name of \"efficiency\" government interests are delegated to private contractor, who will then often subcontract to other groups. For example, contractors hired to patch roofs with blue tarp for FEMA after Katrina received payment of \"between $149 and $175 per (10ftx10ft square).\" This price was comparable to installing entirely new roofs at the time. However; through a long string of subcontractors, the firms performing the final installations of the tarps \"earned as little as $2 per 10ftx10ft square. Taxpayers end up paying exorbitantly as business interests takes complete control over the process of procurement.\n"}
{"id": "30047898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30047898", "title": "IT risk management", "text": "IT risk management\n\nIT risk management is the application of risk management methods to information technology in order to manage IT risk, i.e.:\n\n<onlyinclude>\nIT risk management can be considered a component of a wider enterprise risk management system.\n\nThe establishment, maintenance and continuous update of an Information security management system (ISMS) provide a strong indication that a company is using a systematic approach for the identification, assessment and management of information security risks.\n\nDifferent methodologies have been proposed to manage IT risks, each of them divided into processes and steps.\n</onlyinclude>\nAccording to the Risk IT framework, this encompasses not only the negative impact of operations and service delivery which can bring destruction or reduction of the value of the organization, but also the benefit enabling risk associated to missing opportunities to use technology to enable or enhance business or the IT project management for aspects like overspending or late delivery with adverse business impact.\n\nBecause risk is strictly tied to uncertainty, decision theory should be applied to manage risk as a science, i.e. rationally making choices under uncertainty.\n\nGenerally speaking, risk is the product of likelihood times impact (Risk = Likelihood * Impact).\n\nThe measure of an IT risk can be determined as a product of threat, vulnerability and asset values:\n\nA more current Risk management framework for IT Risk would be the TIK framework:\n\n<onlyinclude>\nThe Certified Information Systems Auditor Review Manual 2006 produced by ISACA, an international professional association focused on IT Governance, provides the following definition of risk management: \"Risk management is the process of identifying vulnerabilities and threats to the information resources used by an organization in achieving business objectives, and deciding what countermeasures, if any, to take in reducing risk to an acceptable level, based on the value of the information resource to the organization.\"\n</onlyinclude>\nThere is two things in this definition that may need some clarification. First, the \"process\" of risk management is an ongoing iterative process. It must be repeated indefinitely. The business environment is constantly changing and new threats and vulnerabilities emerge every day. Second, the choice of countermeasures (controls) used to manage risks must strike a balance between productivity, cost, effectiveness of the countermeasure, and the value of the informational asset being protected.\n\n\"Risk management is the process that allows IT managers to balance the operational and economic costs of protective measures and achieve gains in mission capability by protecting the IT systems and data that support their organizations’ missions. This process is not unique to the IT environment; indeed it pervades decision-making in all areas of our daily lives\".\n\nThe head of an organizational unit must ensure that the organization has the capabilities needed to accomplish its mission. These mission owners must determine the security capabilities that their IT systems must have to provide the desired level of mission support in the face of real world threats. Most organizations have tight budgets for IT security; therefore, IT security spending must be reviewed as thoroughly as other management decisions. A well-structured risk management methodology, when used effectively, can help management identify appropriate controls for providing the mission-essential security capabilities.\nRisk management in the IT world is quite a complex, multi faced activity, with a lot of relations with other complex activities. The picture to the right shows the relationships between different related terms.\n\nThe American National Information Assurance Training and Education Center defines risk management in the IT field as:\n\nSome organizations have, and many others should have, a comprehensive Enterprise risk management (ERM) in place. The four objective categories addressed, according to Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) are:\nAccording to the Risk IT framework by ISACA, IT risk is transversal to all four categories. The IT risk should be managed in the framework of Enterprise risk management: Risk appetite and Risk sensitivity of the whole enterprise should guide the IT risk management process. ERM should provide the context and business objectives to IT risk management\n\nThe term methodology means an organized set of principles and rules that drive action in a particular field of knowledge.\nA methodology does not describe specific methods; nevertheless it does specify several processes that need to be followed. These processes constitute a generic framework. They may be broken down in sub-processes, they may be combined, or their sequence may change. However, any risk management exercise must carry out these processes in one form or another, The following table compares the processes foreseen by three leading standards. The ISACA Risk IT framework is more recent. The Risk IT Practitioner-Guide compares Risk IT and ISO 27005.\nThe overall comparison is illustrated in the following table.\n\nDue to the probabilistic nature and the need of cost benefit analysis, IT risks are managed following a process that according to NIST SP 800-30 can be divided in the following steps:\n\nEffective risk management must be totally integrated into the Systems Development Life Cycle.\n\nInformation risk analysis conducted on applications, computer installations, networks and systems under development should be undertaken using structured methodologies.\n\nThis step is the first step in ISO ISO/IEC 27005 framework. Most of the elementary activities are foreseen as the first sub process of Risk assessment according to NIST SP 800-30.\nThis step implies the acquisition of all relevant information about the organization and the determination of the basic criteria, purpose, scope and boundaries of risk management activities and the organization in charge of risk management activities. The purpose is usually the compliance with legal requirements and provide evidence of due diligence supporting an ISMS that can be certified. The scope can be an incident reporting plan, a business continuity plan.\n\nAnother area of application can be the certification of a product.\n\nCriteria include the risk evaluation, risk acceptance and impact evaluation criteria. These are conditioned by:\n\nEstablishing the scope and boundaries, the organization should be studied: its mission, its values, its structure; its strategy, its locations and cultural environment. The constraints (budgetary, cultural, political, technical) of the organization are to be collected and documented as guide for next steps.\n\nThe set up of the organization in charge of risk management is foreseen as partially fulfilling the requirement to provide the resources needed to establish, implement, operate, monitor, review, maintain and improve an ISMS. The main roles inside this organization are:\n\nRisk Management is a recurrent activity that deals with the analysis, planning, implementation, control and monitoring of implemented measurements and the enforced security policy. On the contrary, Risk Assessment is executed at discrete time points (e.g. once a year, on demand, etc.) and – until the performance of the next assessment - provides a temporary view of assessed risks and while parameterizing the entire Risk Management process.\nThis view of the relationship of Risk Management to Risk Assessment is depicted in figure as adopted from OCTAVE.\n\nRisk assessment is often conducted in more than one iteration, the first being a high-level assessment to identify high risks, while the other iterations detailed the analysis of the major risks and other risks.\n\nAccording to National Information Assurance Training and Education Center risk assessment in the IT field is:\n\nRisk assessment receives as input the output of the previous step Context establishment; the output is the list of assessed risks prioritized according to risk evaluation criteria.\nThe process can be divided into the following steps:\nThe following table compares these ISO 27005 processes with Risk IT framework processes:\n\nThe ISO/IEC 27002:2005 Code of practice for information security management recommends the following be examined during a risk assessment:\n\nRisk identification states what could cause a potential loss; the following are to be identified:\nThe output of sub process is made up of:\n\n\nThere are two methods of risk assessment in information security field, quantitative and qualitative.\n\nPurely quantitative risk assessment is a mathematical calculation based on security metrics on the asset (system or application).\nFor each risk scenario, taking into consideration the different risk factors a Single loss expectancy (SLE) is determined. Then, considering the probability of occurrence on a given period basis, for example the annual rate of occurrence (ARO), the Annualized Loss Expectancy is determined as the product of ARO X SLE.\nIt is important to point out that the values of assets to be considered are those of all involved assets, not only the value of the directly affected resource.\nFor example, if you consider the risk scenario of a Laptop theft threat, you should consider the value of the data (a related asset) contained in the computer and the reputation and liability of the company (other assets) deriving from the lost of availability and confidentiality of the data that could be involved.\nIt is easy to understand that intangible assets (data, reputation, liability) can be worth much more than physical resources at risk (the laptop hardware in the example).\nIntangible asset value can be huge, but is not easy to evaluate: this can be a consideration against a pure quantitative approach.\n\nQualitative risk assessment (three to five steps evaluation, from Very High to Low) is performed when the organization requires a risk assessment be performed in a relatively short time or to meet a small budget, a significant quantity of relevant data is not available, or the persons performing the assessment don't have the sophisticated mathematical, financial, and risk assessment expertise required. Qualitative risk assessment can be performed in a shorter period of time and with less data. Qualitative risk assessments are typically performed through interviews of a sample of personnel from all relevant groups within an organization charged with the security of the asset being assessed. Qualitative risk assessments are descriptive versus measurable.\nUsually a qualitative classification is done followed by a quantitative evaluation of the highest risks to be compared to the costs of security measures.\n\nRisk estimation has as input the output of risk analysis and can be split in the following steps:\nThe output is the list of risks with value levels assigned. It can be documented in a risk register.\n\nRisks arising from security threats and adversary attacks may be particularly difficult to estimate. This difficulty is made worse because, at least for any IT system connected to the Internet, any adversary with intent and capability may attack because physical closeness or access is not necessary. Some initial models have been proposed for this problem.\n\nDuring risk estimation there are generally three values of a given asset, one for the loss of one of the CIA properties: Confidentiality, Integrity, Availability.\n\nThe risk evaluation process receives as input the output of risk analysis process. It compares each risk level against the risk acceptance criteria and prioritise the risk list with risk treatment indications.\n\nTo determine the likelihood of a future adverse event, threats to an IT system must be in conjunction with the potential vulnerabilities and the controls in place for the IT system.\nImpact refers to the magnitude of harm that could be caused by a threat’s exercise of vulnerability. The level of impact is governed by the potential mission impacts and produces a relative value for the IT assets and resources affected (e.g., the criticality sensitivity of the IT system components and data). The risk assessment methodology encompasses nine primary steps:\n\nRisk mitigation, the second process according to SP 800-30, the third according to ISO 27005 of risk management, involves prioritizing, evaluating, and implementing the appropriate risk-reducing controls recommended from the risk assessment process.\nBecause the elimination of all risk is usually impractical or close to impossible, it is the responsibility of senior management and functional and business managers to use the least-cost approach and implement the most appropriate controls to decrease mission risk to an acceptable level, with minimal adverse impact on the organization’s resources and mission.\n\nThe risk treatment process aim at selecting security measures to:\nrisk and produce a risk treatment plan, that is the output of the process with the residual risks subject to the acceptance of management.\n\nThere are some list to select appropriate security measures, but is up to the single organization to choose the most appropriate one according to its business strategy, constraints of the environment and circumstances. The choice should be rational and documented. The importance of accepting a risk that is too costly to reduce is very high and led to the fact that risk acceptance is considered a separate process.\n\nRisk transfer apply were the risk has a very high impact but is not easy to reduce significantly the likelihood by means of security controls: the insurance premium should be compared against the mitigation costs, eventually evaluating some mixed strategy to partially treat the risk. Another option is to outsource the risk to somebody more efficient to manage the risk.\n\nRisk avoidance describe any action where ways of conducting business are changed to avoid any risk occurrence. For example, the choice of not storing sensitive information about customers can be an avoidance for the risk that customer data can be stolen.\n\nThe \"residual risks\", i.e. the risk remaining after risk treatment decision have been taken, should be estimated to ensure that sufficient protection is achieved. If the residual risk is unacceptable, the risk treatment process should be iterated.\n\nRisk mitigation is a systematic methodology used by senior management to reduce mission risk.\nRisk mitigation can be achieved through any of the following risk mitigation options:\nAddress the greatest risks and strive for sufficient risk mitigation at the lowest cost, with minimal impact on other mission capabilities: this is the suggestion contained in\n\nRisk communication is a horizontal process that interacts bidirectionally with all other processes of risk management. Its purpose is to establish a common understanding of all aspect of risk among all the organization's stakeholder. Establishing a common understanding is important, since it influences decisions to be taken. The Risk Reduction Overview method is specifically designed for this process. It presents a comprehensible overview of the coherence of risks, measures and residual risks to achieve this common understanding.\n\nRisk management is an ongoing, never ending process. Within this process implemented security measures are regularly monitored and reviewed to ensure that they work as planned and that changes in the environment rendered them ineffective. Business requirements, vulnerabilities and threats can change over the time.\n\nRegular audits should be scheduled and should be conducted by an independent party, i.e. somebody not under the control of whom is responsible for the implementations or daily management of ISMS.\n\nSecurity controls should be validated. Technical controls are possible complex systems that are to tested and verified. The hardest part to validate is people knowledge of procedural controls and the effectiveness of the real application in daily business of the security procedures.\n\nVulnerability assessment, both internal and external, and Penetration test are instruments for verifying the status of security controls.\n\nInformation technology security audit is an organizational and procedural control with the aim of evaluating security.\nThe IT systems of most organization are evolving quite rapidly. Risk management should cope with these changes through change authorization after risk re evaluation of the affected systems and processes and periodically review the risks and mitigation actions.\n\nMonitoring system events according to a security monitoring strategy, an incident response plan and security validation and metrics are fundamental activities to assure that an optimal level of security is obtained.\nIt is important to monitor the new vulnerabilities, apply procedural and technical security controls like regularly updating software, and evaluate other kinds of controls to deal with zero-day attacks.\n\nThe attitude of involved people to benchmark against best practice and follow the seminars of professional associations in the sector are factors to assure the state of art of an organization IT risk management practice.\n\nEffective risk management must be totally integrated into the SDLC. An IT system’s SDLC has five phases: initiation, development or acquisition, implementation, operation or maintenance, and disposal. The risk management methodology is the same regardless of the SDLC phase for which the assessment is being conducted. Risk management is an iterative process that can be performed during each major phase of the SDLC.\n\nNIST SP 800-64 is devoted to this topic.\n\nEarly integration of security in the SDLC enables agencies to maximize return on investment in their security programs, through:\nThis guide focuses on the information security components of the SDLC. First, descriptions of the key security roles and responsibilities that are needed in most information system developments are provided. Second, sufficient information about the SDLC is provided to allow a person who is unfamiliar with the SDLC process to understand the relationship between information security and the SDLC.\nThe document integrates the security steps into the linear, sequential (a.k.a. waterfall) SDLC. The five-step SDLC cited in the document is an example of one method of development and is not intended to mandate this methodology.\nLastly, SP 800-64 provides insight into IT projects and initiatives that are not as clearly defined as SDLC-based developments, such as service-oriented architectures, cross-organization projects, and IT facility developments.\n\nSecurity can be incorporated into information systems acquisition, development and maintenance by implementing effective security practices in the following areas.\n\n\nInformation systems security begins with incorporating security into the requirements process for any new application or system enhancement. Security should be designed into the system from the beginning. Security requirements are presented to the vendor during the requirements phase of a product purchase. Formal testing should be done to determine whether the product meets the required security specifications prior to purchasing the product.\n\nCorrect processing in applications is essential in order to prevent errors and to mitigate loss, unauthorized modification or misuse of information. Effective coding techniques include validating input and output data, protecting message integrity using encryption, checking for processing errors, and creating activity logs.\n\nApplied properly, cryptographic controls provide effective mechanisms for protecting the confidentiality, authenticity and integrity of information. An institution should develop policies on the use of encryption, including proper key management. Disk Encryption is one way to protect data at rest. Data in transit can be protected from alteration and unauthorized viewing using SSL certificates issued through a Certificate Authority that has implemented a Public Key Infrastructure.\n\nSystem files used by applications must be protected in order to ensure the integrity and stability of the application. Using source code repositories with version control, extensive testing, production back-off plans, and appropriate access to program code are some effective measures that can be used to protect an application's files.\n\nSecurity in development and support processes is an essential part of a comprehensive quality assurance and production control process, and would usually involve training and continuous oversight by the most experienced staff.\n\nApplications need to be monitored and patched for technical vulnerabilities. Procedures for applying patches should include evaluating the patches to determine their appropriateness, and whether or not they can be successfully removed in case of a negative impact.\n\nRisk management as a scientific methodology has been criticized as being shallow. Major IT risk management programmes for large organizations, such as mandated by the US Federal Information Security Management Act, have been criticized.\n\nBy avoiding the complexity that accompanies the formal probabilistic model of risks and uncertainty, risk management looks more like a process that attempts to guess rather than formally predict the future on the basis of statistical evidence. It is highly subjective in assessing the value of assets, the likelihood of threats occurrence and the significance of the impact.\n\nHowever, a better way to deal with the subject has not emerged.\n\nIt is quite hard to list most of the methods that at least partially support the IT risk management process. Efforts in this direction were done by:\nEnisa report classified the different methods regarding completeness, free availability, tool support; the result is that:\n\nThe Factor Analysis of Information Risk (FAIR) main document, \"An Introduction to Factor Analysis of Information Risk (FAIR)\", Risk Management Insight LLC, November 2006;\noutline that most of the methods above lack of rigorous definition of risk and its factors. FAIR is not another methodology to deal with risk management, but it complements existing methodologies.\n\nFAIR has had a good acceptance, mainly by The Open Group and ISACA.\n\nISACA developed a methodology, called Risk IT, to address various kind of IT related risks, chiefly security related risks. It is integrated with COBIT, a general framework to manage IT.\nRisk IT has a broader concept of IT risk than other methodologies, it encompasses not just only the negative impact of operations and service delivery which can bring destruction or reduction of the value of the organization, but also the benefit\\value enabling risk associated to missing opportunities to use technology to enable or enhance business or the IT project management for aspects like overspending or late delivery with adverse business impact.\n\nThe \"Build Security In\" initiative of Homeland Security Department of United States, cites FAIR.\nThe initiative Build Security In is a collaborative effort that provides practices, tools, guidelines, rules, principles, and other resources that software developers, architects, and security practitioners can use to build security into software in every phase of its development. So it chiefly address Secure coding.\n\nIn 2016, Threat Sketch launched an abbreviated cyber security risk assessment specifically for small organizations. The methodology uses real options to forecast and prioritize a fixed list of high-level threats.\n\nThere are a number of standards about IT risk and IT risk management. For a description see the main article.\n\n"}
{"id": "2159021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2159021", "title": "Inter-Services Intelligence", "text": "Inter-Services Intelligence\n\nThe Inter-Services Intelligence (, abbreviated as ISI) is the premier intelligence agency of Pakistan, operationally responsible for gathering, processing, and analyzing national security information from around the world. As one of the principal members of the Pakistani intelligence community, the ISI reports to the Director-General and is primarily focused on providing intelligence for the Government of Pakistan.\n\nThe ISI consists primarily of serving military officers drawn on secondment from the three service branches of the Pakistan Armed Forces (Army, Air Force, and Navy) and hence the name \"Inter-Services\". However, the agency also recruits many civilians. Since 1971, the ISI has been headed by a serving three-star general of the Pakistan Army, who is appointed by the Prime Minister on recommendation of the Chief of Army Staff, who recommends three officers for the job. The ISI is currently headed by Lieutenant-General Asim Munir who was appointed Director-General of Inter-Services Intelligence on 1 October 2018. The Director-General reports directly to both the Prime Minister and the Army Chief.\n\nThe ISI gained global recognition and fame in the 1980s when it supported the Afghan Mujahideen against the Soviet Union during the Soviet–Afghan War in then Democratic Republic of Afghanistan. During the war, the ISI worked in close coordination with the Central Intelligence Agency of the United States to train and fund the Mujahideen with American, Pakistani, and Saudi funds.\n\nAfter fall of the Soviet Union, the ISI provided strategic support and intelligence to the Afghan Taliban against the Northern Alliance during the civil war in Afghanistan of the 1990s.\n\nThe Inter-Services Intelligence was created in 1948 following 1947–48 Pakistan-India war which had exposed weaknesses in intelligence gathering, sharing, and coordination between the Army, Air Force, Navy, Intelligence Bureau (IB) and Military Intelligence (MI). The ISI was structured to be operated by officers from the three main military services, and to specialize in the collection, analysis, and assessment of external military and non-military intelligence. The ISI was the brainchild of the former British Indian Army Major General Sir Robert Cawthome, then Deputy Deputy Chief of Staff of the Pakistan Army and selected Colonel Shahid Hamid to set up the agency. Initially, the ISI had no role in the collection of internal intelligence, with the exception of the NWFP and Azad Jammu and Kashmir. The recruitment and expansion of the ISI was managed and undertaken by Naval Commander Syed Mohammad Ahsan, who was tenuring as Deputy Director of Naval Intelligence and played a pivotal role in formulating the procedures of the ISI. Following the 1958 coup d'état, all national intelligence agencies came under the direct control of the President and Chief Martial Law Administrator. The maintenance of national security, which was the principal function of these agencies, came to mean the consolidation of the Ayub regime. Any criticism of the regime was seen as a threat to national security. After Chief of Army Staff General Zia-ul-Haq seized power on 5 July 1977 and became the Chief Martial Law Administrator, the ISI was expanded on collecting intelligence on the Pakistan Communist Party and Pakistan Peoples Party. The Soviet–Afghan War in the 1980s saw the enhancement of covert operations of the ISI. A special Afghanistan section (called the \"SS Directorate\") was created under the command of Brigadier Mohammed Yousaf to oversee day-to-day operations in Afghanistan. A number of officers from the ISI's Covert Action Division received training in the United States and many covert action experts of the CIA were attached to the ISI to guide it in its operations against Soviet troops by using the Afghan Mujahideen. In September 2001, Pervez Musharraf appointed a new Director General for ISI, Lieutenant General Ehsanul Haq who was later replaced by the Lieutenant General Shuja Pasha. Some analysts (mainly Indian) believe that the ISI provides support to militant groups, though according to other analysts, these allegations remain unsubstantiated with evidence. General Javed Nasir confessed to assisting the besieged Bosnian Muslims despite a UN arms embargo, supporting Chinese Muslims in Xinjiang, rebel Muslim groups in the Philippines, and some religious groups in Central Asia. National Intelligence Directorate (NID) was formed in 2014 in order to pool and share intelligence gathered by over 30 of Pakistan's intelligence agencies to combat terrorism in Pakistan effectively.\n\nThe ISI is headed by a Director-General, who is traditionally a serving Lieutenant-General (Three-star general) in the Pakistan Army. Three Deputy Director-Generals, who are serving 2-star military officers, report directly to the Director-General with each deputy heading three wings respectively:\n\nThe wing is particularly significant because the port at Gwadar is slated to be a linchpin for the major trade corridor linking northwestern China to the Persian Gulf.\n\nThe general staff of the ISI is composed of military officers of the armed forces as well as civilian officers from the FIA, FBR, Pakistan Customs, police and judiciary. They are recruited on deputations for 3 to 4 years and enhance the ISI's professional competence. Experienced army officers who perform well are given repeated extensions in their service. According to some experts, the ISI is the largest intelligence agency in the world in terms of total staff. While the total number has never been made public, experts estimate around 10,000 officers and staff, which does not include informants or assets.\n\n\nThe ISI is headquartered in Pakistan's capital, Islamabad. The complex consists of various low-rise buildings separated by lawns and fountains. The entrance to the complex is next to a private hospital. Declan Walsh of \"The Guardian\" said that the entrance is \"suitably discreet: no sign, just a plainclothes officer packing a pistol who direct visitors through a chicane of barriers, soldiers and sniffer dogs\". Walsh said that the complex \"resembles a well-funded private university\" and that the buildings are \"neatly tended,\" the lawns are \"smooth,\" and the fountains are \"tinkling.\" He described the central building, which houses the director general's office on the top floor, as \"a modern structure with a round, echoing lobby.\"\n\nBoth civilians and members of the armed forces can join the ISI. For civilians, recruitment is advertised and is jointly handled by the Federal Public Services Commission (FPSC) and civilian ISI agents are considered employees of the Ministry of Defence. The FPSC conducts various examinations testing the candidate's knowledge of current affairs, English and various analytical abilities. Based on the results, the FPSC shortlists the candidates and sends the list to the ISI who conduct the initial background checks. The selected candidates are then invited for an interview which is conducted by a joint committee comprising both ISI and FPSC officials, then the selected persons are sent to Defence Services intelligence Academy (DSIA) for 6 months of training. Later these officers are transferred to different sections for open source information where they serve for five years. Officers after five years of basic service are entrusted with sensitive jobs and declared the core team of ISI.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nIndian intelligence agencies have claimed they have proof of ISI involvement with the Naxalites. A classified report accessed by the newspaper \"Asian Age\" said \"the ISI in particular wants Naxals to cause largescale damage to infrastructure projects and industrial units operating in the interior parts of the country where ISI's own terror network is non-existent\". In 2010, police in Bangalore claimed to have found evidence that the ISI were using local mafia types, Chhota Shakeel and Dawood Ibrahim, to establish links with the Naxalites.\n\n\nThe ISI was also accused to be involved in a scandal the Mehran bank scandal dubbed \"Mehrangate\", in which top ISI and Army brass were allegedly given large sums of money by Yunus Habib (the owner of Mehran Bank) to deposit ISI's foreign exchange reserves in Mehran Bank.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nCritics of the ISI say that it has become a state within a state and not accountable enough. Some analysts say that this is because of the fact that intelligence work agencies around the world remain secretive. Critics argue the institution should be more accountable to the President or the Prime Minister. After discovering it, the Pakistani Government disbanded the ISI 'Political Wing' in 2008.\n\nDuring the Cold War, the ISI and the CIA worked together to send spy planes into the Soviet Union. The ISI and CIA also worked closely during the Soviet–Afghan War supporting groups such as Gulbuddin Hekmatyar's Hezb-i Islami and Jalaluddin Haqqani, leader of the Haqqani network.\n\nSome report the ISI and CIA stepped up cooperation in the aftermath of the 9/11 attacks to kill and capture senior Al Qaeda leaders such as Sheikh Younis Al Mauritan and Khalid Shaikh Mohammed, the planner of the 9/11 attacks who was residing in Pakistan. Pakistan claims that in total around 100 top level al-Qaeda leaders/operators were killed/arrested by ISI. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton said Pakistan is paying a \"big price for supporting the U.S. war against terror groups. ... I think it is important to note that as they have made these adjustments in their own assessment of their national interests, they're paying a big price for it\".\n\nOther senior international officials, however, maintain that senior Al Qaeda leaders such as Osama Bin Laden have been hidden by the ISI in major settled areas of Pakistan with the full knowledge of the Pakistani military leadership. A December 2011 analysis report by the Jamestown Foundation came to the conclusion that \"in spite of denials by the Pakistani military, evidence is emerging that elements within the Pakistani military harbored Osama bin Laden with the knowledge of former army chief General Pervez Musharraf and possibly former Chief of Army Staff (COAS) General Ashfaq Pervez Kayani. Former Pakistani General Ziauddin Butt (a.k.a. General Ziauddin Khawaja) revealed at a conference on Pakistani–U.S. relations in October 2011 that according to his knowledge the then former Director-General of Intelligence Bureau of Pakistan (2004–2008), Brigadier Ijaz Shah (retd.), had kept Osama bin Laden in an Intelligence Bureau safe house in Abbottabad.\" Pakistani General Ziauddin Butt said Bin Laden had been hidden in Abbottabad by the ISI \"with the full knowledge\" of Pervez Musharraf but later denied making any such statement, saying his words were altered by the media, he said: \"It is the hobby of the Western media to distort the facts for their own purposes.\" U.S. military officials have increasingly said, they do not notify Pakistani officials before conducting operations against the Afghan Taliban or Al Qaeda, because they fear Pakistani officials may tip them off.\n\nInternational officials have accused the ISI of continuing to support and even lead the Taliban today in the War in Afghanistan (2001–present). As Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Mike Mullen stated:\n\nThe Associated Press reported that \"the president said Mullen's statement 'expressed frustration' over the insurgent safe havens in Pakistan. But Obama said 'the intelligence is not as clear as we might like in terms of what exactly that relationship is.' Obama added that whether Pakistan's ties with the Haqqani network are active or passive, Pakistan has to deal with it.\"\n\nThe Guantanamo Bay files leak, however, showed that the US authorities unofficially consider the ISI as a terrorist organization equally dangerous as Al Qaeda and Taliban, and many allegations of its supporting terrorist activities have been made.\n\nIn 2017, General Joseph Dunford, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, accused ISI of having ties to terror groups. In a Senate hearing, Dunford told members of the U.S. Senate: \"It is clear to me that the ISI has connections with terrorist groups.\"\n\nIndia has accused ISI of plotting the Mumbai terror attack in March 1993 and November 2008. According to the United States diplomatic cables leak the ISI had previously shared intelligence information with Israel regarding possible terrorist attacks against Jewish and Israeli sites in India in late 2008. ISI is also accused of supporting pro independence militias in Jammu and Kashmir while Pakistan denies all such claims.\n\nIndia accuses ISI of supporting separatist militants in Jammu and Kashmir while Pakistan claims to give them moral support only.\n\nThe ISI has long been accused of using designated terrorist groups and militants to conduct proxy wars against its neighbors. According to Grant Holt and David H. Gray \"The agency specializes in utilizing terrorist organizations as proxies for Pakistani foreign policy, covert action abroad, and controlling domestic politics.\" James Forest says there has been increasing proof from counter-terrorism organizations that militants and the Taliban continue to receive assistance from the ISI, as well as the establishment of camps to train terrorists on Pakistani territory. All external operations are carried out under the supervision of the S Wing of the ISI. The agency is divided into Eight divisions. Joint Intelligence/North(JIN) is responsible for conducting operations in Jammu and Kashmir and Afghanistan. The Joint Signal Intelligence Bureau (JSIB) provide support with communications to groups in Kashmir. According to Daniel Benjamin and Steven Simon, both former members of the National Security Council, the ISI acted as a \"kind of terrorist conveyor belt\" radicalizing young men in the Madrassas in Pakistan and delivering them to training camps affiliated with or run by Al-Qaeda and from there moving them into Jammu and Kashmir to launch attacks.\n\nFrom the 1990s, the ISI began to court the Jihadists who had emerged from the conflict against the Soviet Union in Afghanistan and by 2000 the majority of militant groups operating in Kashmir were either based in Pakistan or were pro Pakistan. These groups are used to conduct a low intensity conflict against India. According to Stephen P. Cohen and Wilson John, the ISI's aid to and creation of designated terrorist groups and religious extremist groups is well documented. The ISI have been accused of having close ties to Lashkar-e-Taiba who carried out the attacks in Mumbai in 2008. The ISI have also given aid to Hizbul Mujahideen. Terrorism expert Gus Martin has said the ISI has a long history of supporting designated terrorist groups and pro Independence groups operating in Punjab and Jammu and Kashmir which fight against Indian interests. The ISI also helped with the founding of the group Jaish-e-Mohammed.\n\nHizbul Mujahideen were created as the Kashmiri branch of Jamaat-i-Islami. It has been reported that JI founded Hizbul Mujahideen at the request of the ISI to counter the Jammu and Kashmir Liberation Front(JKLF) who are advocates for the independence of Kashmir. Although the failure of 1987 elections in Kashmir and afterwards arrest of Muhammad Yusuf a.k.a. Syed Salahuddin led to the events that created armed struggle in the valley.\n\nThere have been three incarnations of the group Al-Badr. According to Peter Tomsen, the ISI in conjunction with Jamaat-e-Islami formed the first Al-Badr who resisted the Indian trained influx of Mukti Bahini in Bangladesh in the 1970s. The third Al-Badr (India)\n\nThe ISI supported Al-Qaeda during the war along with CIA against the Soviet government, through the Taliban, and it is believed by some that there are still contact between Al-Qaeda and the ISI. An assessment by British Intelligence in 2000 into Al-Qaeda training camps in Afghanistan showed the ISI were playing an active role in some of them. The leak in 2012 of e-mails from Stratfor claimed that papers captured during all the compounds the raid in Abbotabad on Osama Bin Laden's compound showed up to 12 ISI officials knew where he was and that Bin Laden had been in regular contact with the ISI.\n\nHarkat-ul-Mujahideen were founded in the 1980s by the ISI to fight against Indian interests.\n\nUnder the orders of Muhammad Zia-ul-Haq, in 1984 the ISI prepared a plan which was to be set in motion in 1991.\n\nThe ISI have close links to the Haqqani network and contribute heavily to their funding. It is widely believed the suicide attack on the Indian embassy in Kabul was planned with the help of the ISI. A report in 2008 from the Director of National Intelligence stated that the ISI provides intelligence and funding to help with attacks against the International Security Assistance Force, the Afghan government and Indian targets. However, on 5 November 2014, Lt. Gen. Joseph Anderson, a senior commander for US and Nato forces in Afghanistan, said in a Pentagon-hosted video briefing from Afghanistan that the Haqqani network is now \"fractured\" like the Taliban. \"They are fractured. They are fractured like the Taliban is. That's based pretty much on the Pakistan's operations in North Waziristan this entire summer-fall,\" he said, acknowledging the effectiveness of Pakistan's military offensive in North Waziristan. \"That has very much disrupted their efforts in Afghanistan and has caused them to be less effective in terms of their ability to pull off an attack in Kabul,\" Anderson added.\n\nThe ISI is also active in Nepal. On 1 August 2007, Abdul Wahab, a Pakistani national and ISI agent was detained in Kathmandu with $252,000 worth of counterfeit Indian currency.\n\nAmnesty International published document over the investigation of ISI over murder case of Saleem Shahzad.\n\n\nSince Pakistan's launch of war on Al-Qaeda, Taliban and other jihadist groups, the country's armed forces, intelligence services (particularly ISI), military industrial complexes, paramilitary forces and police forces have come under intense attacks. ISI has played major role in targeting these groups, therefore it has faced retaliatory strikes as well. , more than 300 ISI officials have been killed. Below are some major incidents when attempts were made to target ISI.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51085974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51085974", "title": "International Association of Lawyers against Nuclear Arms", "text": "International Association of Lawyers against Nuclear Arms\n\nThe International Association of Lawyers against Nuclear Arms (IALANA) is an international non-governmental organisation headquartered in Berlin. It was founded in 1988 and seeks \"to build and strengthen international legal efforts to ban the use and threat of use of nuclear weapons.\" Its membership consists of individual lawyers and lawyer's organisations. The current President of the organisation is Christopher Weeramantry, a former Judge of the International Court of Justice. The German section of the organisation was co-founded by former German Minister of Justice Herta Däubler-Gmelin. IALANA had a central role in the process that sought an advisory ruling on the legality of nuclear arms from the International Court of Justice.\n\nThe organisation has consultative status with the United Nations Economic and Social Council.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6689235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6689235", "title": "International Code of Conduct against Ballistic Missile Proliferation", "text": "International Code of Conduct against Ballistic Missile Proliferation\n\nThe International Code of Conduct against Ballistic Missile Proliferation, also known as the Hague Code of Conduct (HCOC), was established on 25 November 2002 as an arrangement to prevent the proliferation of ballistic missiles.\n\nThe HCOC is the result of international efforts to regulate access to ballistic missiles which can potentially deliver weapons of mass destruction. The HCOC is the only multilateral code in the area of disarmament which has been adopted over the last years. It is the only normative instrument to verify the spread of ballistic missiles. The HCOC does not ban ballistic missiles, but it does call for restraint in their production, testing, and export.\n\nAs agreed by the conference in The Hague, Austria serves as the Immediate Central Contact (Executive Secretariat) and therefore coordinates the information exchange of the HCOC. \n\nTo create a link between the UN and the HCOC, which was not negotiated in the context of the UN, a Resolution regarding the HCOC was tabled in the course of the 59th as well as the 60th and 63rd sessions of the General Assembly in New York City.\n\nSince the HCOC's entry into force, sixteen Conferences of Subscribing States of the HCOC have been held. The 16th Regular Meeting of Subscribing States of the HCOC took place from 6–7 June 2017 under the chairmanship of Ambassador from Poland.\n\nIndia joined the HCOC on 1 June 2016.\n\nWhile the Missile Technology Control Regime (MTCR) has a similar mission, it is an export group with only 35 members.\n\nSince the signing and entering into force of the HCOC Code in November 2002 in The Hague, (Netherlands) the number of signatories has increased from 96 to 138 (136 UN members, the Cook Islands and the Holy See). India, which joined on 1 June 2016, is the latest signatory of the HCOC.\n\nCurrently the following states are not subscribers:\n\n"}
{"id": "46987172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46987172", "title": "Legislative Council (British Guiana)", "text": "Legislative Council (British Guiana)\n\nThe Legislative Council was the legislature of British Guiana between 1928 and 1953 and again from 1954 until 1961.\n\nThe Legislative Council was created by constitutional reforms in 1928, which abolished the 22-member Combined Court and replaced it with the 30-member Council. The new Council included an extra eight appointees, and consisted of the Governor, two ex-officio members, eight official members, five unofficial members and 14 members elected in single-member constituencies. The new council met for the first time on 28 November 1928. The first elections were held in 1930 and 1935.\n\nDue to the outbreak of World War II, elections did not happen again until 1947, with the Council elected in 1935 becoming known as the \"Long Parliament\". Constitutional amendments in 1943 saw the number of appointed members reduced from 16 to 11, giving the elected members a majority. The 1947 elections were held under this system.\n\nAs a result of the Waddington Commission, further constitutional reforms were enacted in 1952; universal suffrage was introduced and the Legislative Council was to be replaced by a House of Assembly. The term of the final Legislative Council was extended in order to allow preparations for elections under the new system on 27 April 1953. The Council was dissolved on 8 April 1953.\n\nHowever, the constitution was suspended on 9 October 1953 and the House of Assembly was prorogued, before being dissolved on 21 December. A wholly appointed Interim Legislative Council was established and met for the first time on 5 January 1954. The Interim Legislative Council had 28 members, including the Speaker, three ex-officio members, four members with portfolio, three members without portfolio, two official members and 15 unofficial members, several of whom had previously been elected members.\n\nThe Interim Legislative Council remained in place until it was dissolved on 29 June 1957, after which elections for a new Legislative Council were held on 12 August. It consisted of the Speaker, three official members, six nominated members and 14 elected members.\n\nA new constitution was promulgated in July 1961. It abolished the Legislative Council for a second time, replacing it with a bicameral Legislature including a 13-member Senate and a 36-member Legislative Assembly. Elections to the new Legislature were held on 21 August.\n"}
{"id": "2377959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2377959", "title": "List of suffragists and suffragettes", "text": "List of suffragists and suffragettes\n\nThis list of suffragists and suffragettes includes noted individuals active in the worldwide women's suffrage movement who have campaigned or strongly advocated for women's suffrage, the organizations which they formed or joined, and the publications which publicized – and, in some nations, continue to publicize – their goals. Suffragists and suffragettes, often members of different groups and societies, used or use differing tactics. For example, \"suffragette\" in the British usage denotes a more \"militant\" type of campaigner, while suffragettes in the United States organized such nonviolent events as the Suffrage Hikes, the Woman Suffrage Procession of 1913, and the Silent Sentinels.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37679818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37679818", "title": "Ministry of Education and Higher Education (Lebanon)", "text": "Ministry of Education and Higher Education (Lebanon)\n\nThe Republic of Lebanon Ministry of Education & Higher Education () (en français: Ministère de l'éducation et l'éducation supérieure) is a government agency of Lebanon. Its headquarters are in Beirut.\n\n"}
{"id": "18401574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18401574", "title": "Morris B. Abram", "text": "Morris B. Abram\n\nMorris Berthold Abram (June 19, 1918 – March 16, 2000) was an American lawyer, civil rights activist, and for two years president of Brandeis University. In 1953 he successfully sought the Democratic nomination for Congress from the Fifth District in Georgia, urging the desegregation of schools but lost the election in 1954. He may be best remembered as a civil rights attorney who successfully waged a fourteen year struggle from 1949–63 to end a Georgia electoral rule that gave disproportionate weight in primary elections to vote counts in white rural areas at the expense of those cast by urban blacks. When the rule was struck down by the Supreme Court in 1963, he briefed Attorney General Robert Kennedy who argued the case. \n\nThe Supreme Court found \"within a given constituency there can be room for but one constitutional rule – one voter, one vote.\" \n\nAbram was born into a Jewish family, the son of Sam Abram, a Romanian immigrant who came to America in 1904. Morris Abrams' mother, Irene Cohen was born into a German Jewish family that first settled in Philadelphia in 1848. He grew up in the small town of Fitzgerald, Georgia and attended the University of Georgia, where he excelled academically. At UGA, he was a member of the Phi Kappa Literary Society and graduated according to one source with the highest grade-point average in the school's history. Abram then earned a law degree from the University of Chicago Law School. Although he was forced to forgo a Rhodes scholarship because of the Second World War, he later earned a master's degree from Oxford University.\n\nAfter graduation from the University of Chicago Law School, Abram served as an Army Air Corp Public Relations Officer in the second World War.\n\nWhile at Oxford, a professor arranged for Abram to join the staff of prosecutors at the International Military Tribunal at Nuremberg. Around 1949, he was involved in the drafting of the Fourth Geneva Convention, a document which dealt primarily with humanitarian protections for civilians in a war zone. He later received criticism primarily from Palestinian representatives for a statement he made during that period that did not focus on the plight of displaced Palestinians and the existence of Israeli settlements in what they deemed occupied territories during the first year of Israel's statehood.\n\nAbram was deeply affected by the Holocaust and later became an ardent supporter of Jewish causes.\n\nBefore moving to New York, and while working in Georgia during his civil rights career, he negotiated the release of Dr. Martin Luther King from a Fulton County Georgia jail. \n\nIn 1975, Abram led the Moreland Act Commission, which investigated corruption in New York's nursing home industry. The commission's recommendations led to several changes, among them the closing of 68 nursing homes that failed to comply with existing fire-safety codes.\n\nHe was national president of the American Jewish Committee from 1963 to 1968; chairman of the National Conference on Soviet Jewry from 1983 to 1988; and chairman of the Conference of Presidents of Major Jewish Organizations from 1986 to 1989.\n\nIn his long and distinguished legal career, Abram held a variety of high level positions. In 1961 he was appointed by President Kennedy to chief counsel of the Peace Corps. He also worked as a partner at the New York law firm Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison from 1963–8. He then worked as President of Brandeis University from 1968–1970. In 1969, he was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. He served as chairman of the President Carter's Commission on the Study of Ethical Problems in Medicine and Biomedical and Behavioral Research. In New York, he chaired the Governor's Commission on Nursing Home Practices. \n\nIn 1983, he was nominated to the United States Commission on Civil Rights by Ronald Reagan. By that time, he was a vocal opponent of affirmative action and busing which made him a fit for Reagan, but an instant opponent of many more liberal civil rights advocates.\n\nFrom 1970 to 1979 he served as Chairman of the United Negro College Fund, an organization which raises money predominantly for Black colleges and universities.\n\nPresident George H. W. Bush appointed Abram as the Representative of the United States to the European Office of the United Nations and he served in that office from 1989–93.\nIn 1990, he served as the US Representative to the UN Commission on Human Rights. He took criticism primarily for siding with America's solitary veto of the 1986 UN Resolution to the Right to development of countries, when he stated that the right to development was an \"empty vessel\" and would be \"a dangerous incitement\". America's veto of the resolution may have been related to the nature of their economic, political, and military involvement with developing countries particularly in Africa and the Middle East during the Reagan and George H. Bush administrations.\n\nIn 1993 he founded UN Watch while he was Honorary President of the American Jewish Committee. UN Watch has been active in combating human rights abuses in Democratic Republic of the Congo and Darfur, and has been vocal against abuses in regimes such as China, Venezuela, Cuba and Russia. The group was praised by former UN Secretary General Kofi Annan, and the Director General of the UN Office in Geneva Sergei Ordzhonikidze noted \"the valuable work of UN Watch in support of the just application of values and principles of the United Nations Charter and support for human rights for all.\" \n\nWhile working for UN Watch, Abram noted in 1996 that Israel was the only country in the UN excluded from membership in a geopolitical grouping or states groups which made it ineligible to serve on the Security Council, the Human Rights commission, and a large number of other bodies. These exclusions, Abrams believed \"made it easier for Israel's enemies to proactively cultivate international hostility toward Israel at the General Assembly\". Abram pushed for Israel's membership in the Western European or other states groups as the \"only reasonable way to remedy this ongoing illegal discrimination against Israel\". Abram was concerned during this period there were 19 United Nations resolutions that castigated Israel.\n\nAfter being diagnosed with a thought-to-be-fatal form of leukemia in 1973 but overcoming it, Abram published a memoir in 1982 titled \"The Day is Short\". Into the late 70s he continued to battle leukemia with painful chemotherapy, a variety of anti-leukemia drugs, and injections of treated leukemic cells. Remarkably, he survived the illness and lived a vibrant life until dying of a viral infection on March 15, 2000 in Geneva at the age of 80.\n\nHe had three marriages, his first to his wife Jane from 1944–74, with whom had five children, Ruth, Annie, Morris, Adam, and Joshua, and nine grandchildren He married again from 1975 to 1987 to Carlyn Fisher, and for his remaining life to Bruna Molina.\n\n"}
{"id": "51551609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51551609", "title": "Natal Organisation of Women", "text": "Natal Organisation of Women\n\nThe Natal Organisation of Women (NOW) was a regional women's organization in South Africa in the Natal area. NOW was founded in 1983 and affiliated with the United Democratic Front (UDF). NOW included women from all ages, class and races. NOW's values were in opposition of those expressed by the Inkatha's women's groups.\n\nSince 1980, women felt that there was a need for \"an ongoing programme that would unite women and deal with women's issues.\" A group of women founded NOW in December 1983. One of the founding members was Victoria Mxenge. NOW launched the group on August 9, 1984. The issues they focused on included the cost of living, housing and problems surrounding maternity and childcare in South Africa. The first branches of NOW were located in Durban. The first president of NOW was Phumzile Mlambo-Ngcuka. When Mxenge was killed, NOW organized a demonstration in Durban.\n\nNOW disbanded in 1990 and members joined with the African National Congress (ANC).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29406553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29406553", "title": "No Self-Government Party", "text": "No Self-Government Party\n\nThe No Self-Government Party was a minor Australian Capital Territory political party that experienced limited success in the early years of the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly. Like Dennis Stevenson's Abolish Self-Government Coalition, it opposed self-government for the ACT. In the first territory election in 1989, three members of the No Self-Government Party were elected. None was still a member of the party by the 1992 election, by which time it had ceased to exist.\n"}
{"id": "9679918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9679918", "title": "Norwegian Police Service", "text": "Norwegian Police Service\n\nThe Norwegian Police Service () is the Norwegian civilian police agency. It consists of a central National Police Directorate, seven specialty agencies and twelve police districts. The government agency is subordinate to the Ministry of Justice and Public Security and has 16,000 employees, of which 8,000 are police officers. In addition to police powers, the service is responsible for border control, certain civil duties, coordinating search and rescue operations, counter-terrorism, highway patrolling, writ of execution, criminal investigation and prosecution.\n\nThe police service dates to the 13th century when the first sheriffs were appointed. As the first city in Norway to do so, Trondheim had a chief of police appointed in 1686, and Oslo established a uniformed police corps in 1859. The directorate is led by National Police Commissioner Odd Reidar Humlegård. Police districts were introduced in 1894, with the current structure dating from 2003.\n\nEach police district is led by a chief of police and is subdivided into several police stations in towns and cities, and sheriffs' offices for rural areas. The Governor of Svalbard acts as chief of police for Svalbard. Norwegian police officers do not carry firearms, but keep their Heckler & Koch MP5 submachine guns and Heckler & Koch P30 pistols locked down in the patrol cars. The Norwegian Prosecuting Authority is partially integrated with the police.\n\nSpecialist agencies within the services include the National Criminal Investigation Service, the National Authority for Investigation and Prosecution of Economic and Environmental Crime (Økokrim), the National Police Immigration Service, the National Mobile Police Service, the Norwegian Border Commissioner, the National Police Computing and Material Service and the Norwegian Police University College. Several other national responsibilities are under the command of Oslo Police District, such as the Emergency Response Unit and the two police helicopters. The Police Security Service is separate from the National Police Directorate.\n\nThe police force in Norway was established during the 13th century. Originally the 60 to 80 sheriffs (\"lensmann\") were predominantly used for writ of execution and to a less degree police power. In the cities the duties were originally taken care of by a \"gjaldker\". The sheriffs were originally subordinate to the \"sysselmann\", but from the 14th century they instead became subordinate to the bailiff (\"fogd\") and the number of sheriffs increased. In the cities the police authority was transferred directly to the bailiff. By the mid-17th century there were between 300 and 350 sheriffs. With the introduction of the absolute monarchy in 1660 and subsequent strengthening of the civil service, the importance of the police increased. The bailiffs as such became part of the police structure, with their superiors, the county governor, receiving a similar role as that of chief of police. The first titled chief of police was hired in Trondheim in 1686, thus creating the first police district, although his jurisdiction only covered the city proper. Chiefs of police were hired in Bergen in 1692, Christiania (Oslo) in 1744 and Christianssand in 1776.\nFrom the 19th century, deputies were hired in larger areas to assist the sheriffs. Following the democratization in 1814, the Ministry of Justice was created in 1818 and has since had the primary responsibility for organizing the police force. The 19th century saw a large increase in the number of chiefs of police, reaching sixteen by the middle of the century. Christiania established the country's first uniformed corps of constables in 1859, which gave the force a more unified appearance. Similar structures were soon introduced in many other cities. From 1859 the municipalities would finance the wages of the deputies and constables, which made it difficult for the police to use those forces outside the municipal borders. The first organized education of police officers started in Christiania in 1889.\n\nIn 1894 the authorities decided to abolish the position of bailiff and it was decided that some of its tasks would be transferred to the sheriffs. This resulted in 26 new chief of police positions, largely corresponding to the old bailiwicks. Some received jurisdiction over both cities and rural areas, other just rural areas. At the same time the existing police districts were expanded to include the surrounding rural areas. However, the individual bailiff were not removed from office until their natural retirement, leaving some bailiwick in place until 1919. The reform eliminated the difference between the rural and city police forces; yet the sheriffs were only subordinate to the chief of police in police matters—in civil matters and administration they remained under the county governors.\nThe police school was established in 1920 and the Governor of Svalbard was created in 1925. To increase the police force's flexibility, the municipal funding was cut and replaced with state funding in 1937. That year also saw the first two specialty agencies were created, the Police Surveillance Agency (later the Police Security Service) and the Mobile Police Service. After a border agreement was reached between Norway and the Soviet Union in 1949, the Norwegian Border Commission was established the following year. The Criminal Investigation Service was established in 1959, and the search and rescue system with two joint coordination centers and sub-centers for each police district was created in 1970.\n\nThe number of police districts was nearly constant from 1894 to 2002, although a few have been creased and closed. However, the organization in the various police districts varied considerably, especially in the cities. In particular, some cities had their civilian responsibilities taken care of by the municipality. This was confusing for the public, resulting in the police services reorganizing to a homogenous organization during the 1980s, whereby the civil tasks being organized as part of the police stations. Økokrim was established in 1988 and in 1994 the administrative responsibilities for the sheriff's offices was transferred to police districts. Only once has the order to shoot to kill been issued, during the Torp hostage crisis in 1994. The police school became a university college in 1993 and introduced a three-year education; in 1998 a second campus opened in Bodø. Police Reform 2000 was a major restructuring of the police force. First the National Police Directorate was created in 2001, and from 2003 the number of police districts were reduced from 54 to 27. The Police Computing and Material Service and the Criminal Investigation Service were both established in 2004. Ten police officers have been killed in service since 1945. The Gjørv Report following the 2011 Norway attacks criticized several aspects of the police force, labeling the work as \"unacceptable\". National Commissioner Øystein Mæland withdrew following the criticism, in part because an internal report of the attacks had not found any criticism of the police force.\n\nThe National Police Directorate, located in Downtown Oslo, is the central administration for the Norwegian Police Service. It conducts management and supervision of the specialist agencies and police districts, including organizational development and support activities. The directorate is led by the National Police Commissioner, who, since 2012, has been Odd Reidar Humlegård. The National Criminal Investigation Service is a national unit which works with organized and serious crime. It both works as an assistant unit for police districts, with special focus on technical and tactical investigation, in addition to being responsible on its own for organized crime. It acts as the center for international police cooperation, including participation in Interpol and Europol. The National Authority for Investigation and Prosecution of Economic and Environmental Crime is responsible for complex cases of economic crime and acts as a public prosecutor for those cases. The National Police Immigration Service registers and identifies asylum seekers and returns those which have their applications rejected. The National Mobile Police Service is based in Stavern and operates throughout the country. Their primary role is as highway patrol and manages the police reserves, although they also assist police districts in extraordinary events where extra manpower is needed or where they are in the vicinity.\n\nThe Norwegian Border Commissioner is located in Kirkenes and is responsible for managing the Norway–Russia border and upholding the border agreement. Special consideration is needed as it is the only non-Schengen Area land border of Norway. Border controls are the responsibility of the respective police district. The National Police Computing and Material Service is responsible for managing the police's information and communications technology, procurement, security and real estate. Norway has two joint rescue coordination centers, one for Northern Norway located in Bodø and on one for Southern Norway located in Sola. Their jurisdiction border goes at the 65th parallel north (Nord-Trøndelag–Nordland border). Organizationally they are directly subordinate to the Ministry of Justice and the Police, although their operations are subordinate to the chiefs of police in Salten and Rogaland, respectively. The Police Security Service is Norway's security agency; although considered a law enforcement agency, it is not subordinate to the National Police Directorate nor part of the Norwegian Police Service.\n\nMetropolitan Norway is divided into 27 police districts. Each district is further subdivided into local police stations and rural police districts, the latter led by a sheriff. Each police district is headquartered at a main police station and is led by a chief of police. Police districts hold a common pool of resources and personnel and have a common administration and budget. Each also has a joint operations center which also acts as an emergency call center for 112. Many of the larger districts have their own execution and enforcement authority, while this in integrated in the smaller districts. The size of the police districts varies, from Oslo with 2,500 employees and covering a population of 570,000 to Eastern Finnmark which has 160 employees and 30,000 residents.\nEach districts has specially-trained mobile units for armed and other challenging missions, and dog units for narcotics and search and rescue missions. The police districts also have police boats for coastal waters and selected lakes, with focus on driving under the influence, speeding and environmental monitoring. In Troms and Finnmark, the Reindeer Police are responsible for monitoring and supervising reindeer husbandry and environmental supervision. As of 2009 there were 301 rural police districts, 68 local police stations and 10 execution and enforcement authorities.\n\nOslo Police District has a series of special divisions and task forces which provide aid to all other police districts when necessary. It is responsible for the two police helicopters, which is mostly used for traffic motoring, search and rescue and apprehension. The Emergency Response Unit is a deployment unit for terrorism, sabotage and hostage incidents, which is separate from the crisis and hostage negotiation service. Oslo's dog patrol service includes the national bomb squad. The departments further has a mobile deployment squad against demonstrations and riots, a Police Negotiation Unit for use against barricades and kidnapping, a mounted police, and the responsibility for protecting high-ranking government and royal officials.\n\nSvalbard is not part of the regular police districts—instead it law enforcement it handled by the Governor of Svalbard. He holds the responsibility as both county governor and chief of police, as well as holding other authority granted from the executive branch. Duties include environmental policy, family law, law enforcement, search and rescue, tourism management, information services, contact with foreign settlements, and abjudication in some areas of maritime inquiries and judicial examinations—albeit never in the same cases as acting as police. Jan Mayen is subordinate to Salten Police District.\n\nNorway has a unified police, which means that there is a single police organization and that police power and prosecutor power is not granted to other agencies within Norway. The sole exception is the military police, albeit which only has jurisdiction over military personnel and on military installations, except during martial law. The police are decentralized and generalized to allow a more flexible resource allocation, while remaining under political control. This entails that police officers have no geographical or sector limitations to their powers. The Police Act and several special laws regulate the agencies and the officer's powers and responsibilities. The police are required to assist other public institutions, including the healthcare authorities, and can be asked by other agencies to assist when it is necessary to enact a decision by force. Conversely, the police can ask for assistance from the Coast Guard when necessary. The police are responsible for all responses against terrorism and sabotage unless Norway is under armed attack.\n\nResponsibilities and functions related to security includes patrolling, continual emergency availability, highway patrolling, sea patrolling, coordination of search and rescue activities, embassy security and as a body guard service for members of the government, the royal family and other in need. The crime fighting responsibility is split between preventative measures, such as information, observation and controls, and consequential measures, such as investigation and prosecution. The police further have duties related to civilian court cases, such as writ of execution, evaluation of natural damage, assisting the courts after bankruptcies and functioning as a notary public.\nThe police have a series of functions related to public management, such as the issuing of passports, firearms licenses, police certificates, permissions for lotteries and withdrawal of driving licenses, approval of security guard companies and bouncers, recommendations to municipal councils for issuing alcohol sales licenses, approval of second-hand shops and arrangements which are otherwise unlawful, dealing with unowned dogs and animals in the care of people sentenced unsuitable to hold animals.\n\nThe police also have the responsibility for prisoner transport during detention, including transport to and from court. The police serve as border guards for the outer border of the Schengen Area. The busiest are Oslo Airport, Gardermoen, which has 130 man-years tied to it, Storskog on the Russian border and Sandefjord Airport, Torp. These are the only borders with designated border employees—all other are manned with regular officers. The police is not responsible for customs, which is the responsibility of the Norwegian Customs and Excise Authorities. Norway participates in a series of international police cooperation, such as Interpol, Europol, the Schengen Information System, Frontex, and the Baltic Sea Task Force on Organized Crime. Norway also has a close cooperation with the other Nordic police forces. The Norwegian Police Service occasionally participates in international operations.\n\nIn 2011 the police force had 746,464 assignments, the most common with 180,000 assignments being investigation cases, such as reported deaths, controls and reports of motor vehicle theft. This was followed by traffic assignments, public disturbance of peace, animal cases, theft, private disturbance of peace, and sickness and psychiatry. Seventy-five percent of assignments are solved with a single patrol, while ninety percent are solved with one and two. In armed situations only twenty percent are solved with a single patrol. In 2010 the Norwegian Police Service had 13 billion Norwegian krone in costs, of which seventy percent was used on wages. It employed 13,493 man-years, or 1.6 man-years per 1000 residents. There were 394,137 reported offenses, or 81.1 per 1000 people, of which 46 percent were solved. There were 5,399 debt settlements, 226,491 applications for writ of execution, 195,345 immigration cases and 4,615 forced returns.\n\nThe Norwegian Prosecuting Authority is integrated into the Norwegian Police Service. The authority is divided into a higher and lower authority, with the higher authority (public prosecutor) being a separate government agency and the lower authority (police prosecutor) being members of the police. The latter includes chief of police, deputy chief of police, police prosecutors and deputy police prosecutors. In questions of prosecution the police districts are subordinate to the Norwegian Prosecuting Authority and in other matters subordinate to the National Police Directorate.\n\nThe higher authorities will take decisions in serious criminal charges and for appeals. The Norwegian Persecuting Authority is led by the Director General of Public Prosecutions, which since 1997 has been Tor-Aksel Busch. The director general makes decisions of indictment in cases with a maximum penalty of twenty-one years and certain other serious crimes. There are twelve subordinate agencies, ten regional and two supporting Kripos and Økokrim, respectively. The regional public prosecution offices take decisions regarding cases not covered by the director general or the police prosecutors.\n\nIf an offense is filed, the issue may be investigated by police on duty. Permission for search and seizure is issued by the police prosecutor on duty at the police district. Apprehended people are permitted a free defense counsel at the public's expense. If the police wish to keep apprehended people in detention, the issue is brought to the relevant district court, a process which may be repeated several times if the custody needs to be extended. Investigations are led by a police prosecutor. During investigation, the case may be concluded as a non-criminal offense, dismissed, or transferred to another police district. Minor cases with a positive finding may be resolved by police penalty notice, settlement by a conflict resolution board and withdrawal of prosecution.\n\nCriminal cases with an assumed perpetrator are sent to the public prosecutor, who will consider issuing an indictment. If positive, the trial will take place at a district court, with a police prosecutor presiding over the case. Cases with more than six years maximum penalty will normally be carried out with public prosecutors prosecuting. Either party can, on specified terms, appeal the outcome of the case to the court of appeal and ultimately the Supreme Court of Norway.\n\nEducation of police officers is the responsibility of the Norwegian Police University College, which is subordinate to the National Police Directorate. The main campus is located at Majorstuen in Oslo, while the secondary campus is located at Mørkved in Bodø. In addition the college has training centers in Kongsvinger and Stavern. Police officer training is a three-year bachelor's degree, where the first and third year take place at the college and the second year is on-the-ground training in police districts.\n\nIn 2009, 1990 people applied for 432 places at the college. From 2010, admission is administrated through the Norwegian Universities and Colleges Admission Service. The college also has a three-year part-time master's degree in police science. As the chief of police and deputy chief of police are part of the prosecuting authority, they must be a candidate of law to act in such a position. Although there no longer is a formal requirement for such an education, the role as prosecutor effectively hinders others from holding the position.\n\nAt the time of graduation all officers are qualified for operational service. However, each employee must undergo 40 hours of yearly training, including firearms practice, to keep their operational certification. Without this, they cannot patrol, use firearms or participate in actions. Forty-four percent of police officers in 2012 lacked such certification. The main reason is that the police districts see it as a waste of resources to train investigation and administrative staff which do not participate in operative duty, and that a higher quality is achieved through specialization of tasks, such as dedicated investigation personnel.\n\nEach police district may dictate that operational personnel have a higher amount of training, for instance 80 hours is required in Oslo. Officers are certified at five levels, of which the top four can use firearms. Level three consists of a call-out unit for each police district, consisting of a combined 646 people. This requires 103 hours of special training per year. Higher levels are required for body-guard service (55 officers) and the Emergency Response Union (73 officers). All certification curriculum is developed by and organized by the university college.\nThe Norwegian Police Federation is the trade union which organizes employees from all levels within the police force. The federation is a member of the Confederation of Unions for Professionals, Norway and the European Confederation of Police. It is illegal for police officers to strike. The federation have nonetheless undertaken several actions, including collective sick leave to close a police station and by members sabotaging courses by not participating. Reports of misconduct and criminal offenses by officers during duty is investigated by the Norwegian Bureau for the Investigation of Police Affairs. Based in Hamar, it is directly subordinate to the Ministry of Justice and the Police and is not part of the Norwegian Police Service.\n\nAs of 2011 the police's new patrol cars are four-wheel drive Volkswagen Passat with automatic transmission. New transport cars are Mercedes-Benz Vito for light transport and Mercedes-Benz Sprinter for heavy transport. The police force operates two Eurocopter EC135 helicopters, which are based at Oslo Airport, Gardermoen. In addition, the Emergency Response Unit can use the Royal Norwegian Air Force's Bell 412 helicopters.\nThe police have two main types of uniforms, type I is used for personnel which primarily undertake indoor work, and type II is used for personnel which primarily undertakes outdoor service. Both types have summer and winter versions, and type I also has a dress uniform version. Both types use black as the dominant color with light blue shirts.\n\nPolice officers are not armed with firearms during patrolling, but have weapons locked down in the patrol cars. Arming of the locked-down weapons requires permission from the chief of police or someone designated by him. The police use Heckler & Koch MP5 submachine guns and Heckler & Koch P30 semi-automatic pistols. The Emergency Response Unit uses Diemaco C8 assault rifles. Norwegian police officers do not use electroshock weapons.\n\nPreviously the police used a decentralized information technology system developed during the mid-1990s. As late as 2012 servers were still being run with Windows NT 4.0 from 1996 and log-on times were typically twenty minutes. The new IT-system D#2 was introduced in 2011 and will have been taken into use by all divisions by 2012. D#2 will be operated by ErgoGroup and will have two redundant server centers. Personnel have access to the system via thin clients. The police have a system to raise a national alarm to close border crossings and call in reserve personnel. The one time it was activated the message was not received by any of the intended recipients. Since 2009 it has been possible to report criminal damage and theft of wallets, bicycles and mobile telephones without a known perpetrator(s) online.\n\nThe Norwegian Public Safety Radio has been installed in Oslo, Østfold, Akershus and southern Buskerud. The system is uses Terrestrial Trunked Radio and allows for a common public safety network for all emergency agencies. Features include authentication, encryption and possibilities to transmit data traffic. As the system is rolled out, central parts will receive transmission speeds of 163 kbit/s. The rest of the country uses an analog radio system specific for each police district. In addition to lack of interoperability with paramedics and fire fighters, none of the systems are encrypted, forcing police officers to rely heavily on GSM-based mobile telephones for dispatch communication when transmitting sensitive information.\n\nPolice cars lack GPS navigation devices and mobile data terminal. Instead, all communication must be radioed to the dispatcher at the joint operations center, and officers must rely on printed road atlases for navigation. In contrast, GPS navigation and terminal equipment was finished installed in ambulances and fire trucks in 2003. The Norwegian Public Safety Radio is scheduled for completion in 2015.\n\nSource: Norwegian National Police\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "330012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=330012", "title": "Official Secrets Act", "text": "Official Secrets Act\n\n\"Official Secrets Act\" is a term used in Hong Kong, India, Ireland, Malaysia, Singapore and the United Kingdom, and formerly in Canada and New Zealand for legislation that provides for the protection of state secrets and official information, mainly related to national security.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nPeople working with sensitive information are commonly required to sign a statement to the effect that they agree to abide by the restrictions of the Official Secrets Act. This is popularly referred to as \"signing the Official Secrets Act\". Signing this has no effect on which actions are legal, as the act is a law, not a contract, and individuals are bound by it whether or not they have signed it. Signing it is intended more as a reminder to the person that they are under such obligations. To this end, it is common to sign this statement both before and after a period of employment that involves access to secrets (e.g. MI5/MI6).\n\nIn addition to the Official Secrets Acts, the Naval Discipline Act 1957 made it an offence punishable with life imprisonment to spy on-board Royal Navy ships or overseas bases. This was a capital offence until 1981.\n\n22 prosecutions occurred under the Official Secrets Act in Canada, over half of which were in relation to the Gouzenko Affair. In 1989, Stephen Joseph Ratkai was charged and convicted under the Act, of espionage in relation to the SOSUS network site at Naval Station Argentia in Newfoundland.\n\n\n\nThe phrase \"official secrets act\" may also be used to refer to statutes of a similar nature in other countries. Canada's \"Official Secrets Act\" was replaced in 2001 by similar legislation titled the \"Security of Information Act\" (which was created in the wake of September 11th 2001 to replace the vaguely worded Official Secrets Act).\n\nThe United States does not have a broad-reaching Official Secrets Act, although the Espionage Act of 1917 has similar components. Much of the Espionage Act remains in force, although some has been struck down by the Supreme Court as unconstitutional because of the First Amendment (See \"United States v. The Progressive\", \"Brandenburg v. Ohio\", \"New York Times Co. v. United States\"). , enacted in 1951, makes dissemination of secret information involving cryptography, espionage, and surveillance illegal for all people, and is thus an \"official secrets act\" limited to those subjects.\n\nIn the Republic of Ireland the Official Secrets Act, 1963 repealed previous British legislation of 1911 and 1920. The Official Secrets Act, as amended, applies to all civil servants and potentially anyone within the state. A suit may only be instigated at the approval of the Attorney General of Ireland, additionally proceedings may occur in camera but the verdict and any sentence must occur in public.\n\nMalaysia has an Official Secrets Act (also referred to as the OSA) prohibiting the collection, possession or distribution of information marked as an official secret—an action which can be made by any public officer. The certification of a document as an official secret is not subject to judicial review, and a violation of the act is punishable with between one and seven years' imprisonment. The act has been controversial for its use to silence dissent and stifling anti-corruption activities.\n\nAustralia has Part VII of the Crimes Act 1914 (Commonwealth), entitled \"Official Secrets and Unlawful Soundings\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "449680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=449680", "title": "Oratorical Interpretation", "text": "Oratorical Interpretation\n\nOratorical Interpretation (often shortened to Oral Interp, Oratorical Interp, Oratorical, or abbreviated to OI) is an event in American competitive high school forensics. In 2015 the category was officially renamed to Declamation. Similar to Original Oratory, Oratorical differs in that the speeches performed must be published material, not original material. The speeches given are speeches originally delivered in a public forum. Examples include the Inaugural Address of John F. Kennedy, \"I Have a Dream\" by Martin Luther King, and any college graduation speech. In a typical round of competition, five to seven competitors will declaim speeches before a judge. After the round, the judge will rank them from best to worst, and assign each competitor a score, which will be used to break ties when the tournament is tabulated.\n\nLike Duet Acting, Oratorical is not a National Forensic League-sanctioned event. It is practiced by other speech leagues, including the OHSSL, NCFCA, NCFL, [[ and [[California High School Speech Association]].\n\n[[Category:Debating]]\n"}
{"id": "4484892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4484892", "title": "Peter Ritchie Calder", "text": "Peter Ritchie Calder\n\nPeter Ritchie Calder, Baron Ritchie-Calder (1 July 1906 – 31 January 1982) was a Scottish socialist author, journalist and academic. \n\nPeter Ritchie Calder was born on 1 July 1906 in Forfar, Angus, Scotland.\n\nCalder first worked as a journalist in Dundee and Glasgow, where he became noted as a socialist and peace activist; as Science Editor of the \"News Chronicle\", he wrote under the name of 'Ritchie Calder'. \n\nAfter moving to London before World War II, he accepted an appointment as the Director of Plans and Campaigns at the Political Warfare Executive branch of the Government, which was responsible for the allied war propaganda effort. He wrote propaganda posters and leaflets and speeches for allied leaders. He was a member of the 1941 Committee, a group of liberal politicians, writers and other people of influence in the United Kingdom. In 1941 he became popular with his book \"Carry on London\", which described the effects of the German bombardment of London, Coventry and other cities in Great Britain.\n\nAfter the war Calder returned to his former activities as a writer and specialised in internationalism, the peace movement and in the public understanding of science. He worked also with the United Nations and was President of the National Peace Council and of the Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament. He also worked for the \"News Chronicle\" newspaper as Science Editor. \n\nSir Lawrence Bragg's original announcement of the discovery of the structure of DNA was made at a Solvay conference on proteins in Belgium on 8 April 1953 but went unreported by the UK press. He then gave a talk at Guy's Hospital Medical School in London on Thursday 14 May 1953, which resulted in an article by Ritchie Calder in the \"News Chronicle\" of London on Friday 15 May 1953, entitled \"Why You Are You. Nearer Secret of Life\". \n\nCalder was an ardent peace activist and humanist. In 1955, Calder recorded and released an album on Folkways Records entitled, \"Science in Our Lives.\" In 1980 he was one of the signatories of A Secular Humanist Declaration, a statement of belief in Democratic Secular Humanism, issued by the Council for Democratic and Secular Humanism (\"CODESH\"), now the Council for Secular Humanism (\"CSH\"). He was also one of the signers of the Humanist Manifesto.\n\nHe also taught International Relations at the University of Edinburgh, from 1961 to 1967. He was created a life peer as Baron Ritchie-Calder, of Balmashanner in the Royal Burgh of Forfar on 5 July 1966, and received the 1960 Kalinga prize.\n\nLord Ritchie-Calder and his wife Mabel Jane Forbes McKail had five children: science writer Nigel Calder (1931-2014); writer and historian Angus Calder (1942-2008); mathematician Allan Calder; educationist Isla Calder (1946-2000) and teacher Fiona Rudd (née Calder). He was also the grandfather of travel writer Simon Calder and the actor, writer and comedienne Gowan Calder.\n\nCalder died on 31 January 1982, Edinburgh, Scotland.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43942719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43942719", "title": "Police use of firearms", "text": "Police use of firearms\n\nA small number of countries possess police forces (national or sub-national) which do not carry firearms on regular patrol or reserve firearms for specialist police officers.\n\nIcelandic policemen generally do not carry firearms, instead they carry telescopic batons and pepper spray.\n\nAll routinely uniformed officers are unarmed. The strength of the Garda Síochána is approximately 15,000 officers, of which approx. 4,000 are licensed to carry firearms. Uniformed Gardaí wear stab-proof body armour and carry expandable ASP batons, handcuffs and pepper spray all introduced by the new Garda Inspectorate.\n\nArmed support units include the Regional Support Units (RSU) and the national Emergency Response Unit (ERU), which is comparable to American SWAT or British SCO19 and operates a variety of lethal and non-lethal devices. All Gardaí (Police Officers) who train as detectives carry a sidearm, and many plainclothes/undercover officers are also trained and deployed with the use of concealed handguns. \n\nThe policy of unarmed police has been in place since 1922, when the Garda's armed predecessor, the Royal Irish Constabulary, was replaced upon the Irish Free State's secession from the United Kingdom.\n\nNew Zealand police officers do not normally carry firearms, although access to firearms is available when circumstances dictate. Specialised units of the New Zealand Police such as the Armed Offenders Squad, a SWAT type unit and the Special Tactics Group are also operational for different scenarios that might arise.\n\nNorwegian police were generally not armed until November 25, 2014. Since then, officers with weapon training have been generally armed with loaded firearms, following the increased threat from IS. The temporary measure has been extended four times, the latest at July 29, 2015.\n\nThe majority of British police are never routinely armed, relying on an extendable baton and in some cases Tasers, with specialist armed units called in when necessary. The exceptions are the Ministry of Defence Police, the Civil Nuclear Constabulary and the Police Service of Northern Ireland.\n"}
{"id": "543640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=543640", "title": "Property ladder", "text": "Property ladder\n\nThe property ladder is a term widely used in the United Kingdom to describe the relative differences in constant terms from cheaper to more expensive housing. \n\nAccording to this metaphor, an individual or family's lifetime progress can be traveled equally from cheap houses for younger first-time buyers who are typically at the bottom of the property ladder, and expensive houses are at the top. 'Getting on to the property ladder' is the process of buying one's first house and holding a place on the volatile property market.\n\n"}
{"id": "277237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=277237", "title": "Pumped-storage hydroelectricity", "text": "Pumped-storage hydroelectricity\n\nPumped-storage hydroelectricity (PSH), or pumped hydroelectric energy storage (PHES), is a type of hydroelectric energy storage used by electric power systems for load balancing. The method stores energy in the form of gravitational potential energy of water, pumped from a lower elevation reservoir to a higher elevation. Low-cost surplus off-peak electric power is typically used to run the pumps. During periods of high electrical demand, the stored water is released through turbines to produce electric power. Although the losses of the pumping process makes the plant a net consumer of energy overall, the system increases revenue by selling more electricity during periods of \"peak demand\", when electricity prices are highest.\n\nPumped-storage hydroelectricity allows energy from intermittent sources (such as solar, wind) and other renewables, or excess electricity from continuous base-load sources (such as coal or nuclear) to be saved for periods of higher demand. The reservoirs used with pumped storage are quite small when compared to conventional hydroelectric dams of similar power capacity, and generating periods are often less than half a day.\n\nPumped storage is the largest-capacity form of grid energy storage available, and, as of 2017, the United States Department of Energy Global Energy Storage Database reports that PSH accounts for over 95% of all active tracked storage installations worldwide, with a total installed nameplate capacity of over 184 GW, of which about 25 GW are in the United States. The \"round-trip\" energy efficiency of PSH varies between 70%–80%, with some sources claiming up to 87%. The main disadvantage of PSH is the specialist nature of the site required, needing both geographical height and water availability. Suitable sites are therefore likely to be in hilly or mountainous regions, and potentially in areas of outstanding natural beauty, and therefore there are also social and ecological issues to overcome. Many recently proposed projects, at least in the U.S., avoid highly sensitive or scenic areas, and some propose to take advantage of \"brownfield\" locations such as disused mines. \n\nAt times of low electrical demand, excess generation capacity is used to pump water into the upper reservoir. When there is higher demand, water is released back into the lower reservoir through a turbine, generating electricity. Reversible turbine/generator assemblies act as a combined pump and turbine generator unit (usually a Francis turbine design).\n\nIn open-loop systems, pure pumped-storage plants store water in an upper reservoir with no natural inflows, while pump-back plants utilize a combination of pumped storage and conventional hydroelectric plants with an upper reservoir that is replenished in part by natural inflows from a stream or river. Plants that do not use pumped-storage are referred to as conventional hydroelectric plants; conventional hydroelectric plants that have significant storage capacity may be able to play a similar role in the electrical grid as pumped storage by deferring output until needed.\n\nTaking into account evaporation losses from the exposed water surface and conversion losses, energy recovery of 70-80% or more can be regained. This technique is currently the most cost-effective means of storing large amounts of electrical energy, but capital costs and the presence of appropriate geography are critical decision factors in selecting pumped-storage plant sites.\n\nThe relatively low energy density of pumped storage systems requires either large flows and/or large differences in height between reservoirs. The only way to store a significant amount of energy is by having a large body of water located relatively near, but as high above as possible, a second body of water. In some places this occurs naturally, in others one or both bodies of water were man-made. Projects in which both reservoirs are artificial and in which no natural inflows are involved with either reservoir are referred to as \"closed loop\" systems.\n\nThese systems may be economical because they flatten out load variations on the power grid, permitting thermal power stations such as coal-fired plants and nuclear power plants that provide base-load electricity to continue operating at peak efficiency, while reducing the need for \"peaking\" power plants that use the same fuels as many base-load thermal plants, gas and oil, but have been designed for flexibility rather than maximal efficiency. Hence pumped storage systems are crucial when coordinating large groups of heterogeneous generators. Capital costs for pumped-storage plants are relatively high, although this is somewhat mitigated by their long service life of up to 75 years or more, which is three to five times longer than utility-scale batteries.\n\nAlong with energy management, pumped storage systems help control electrical network frequency and provide reserve generation. Thermal plants are much less able to respond to sudden changes in electrical demand, potentially causing frequency and voltage instability. Pumped storage plants, like other hydroelectric plants, can respond to load changes within seconds.\n\nThe most important use for pumped storage has traditionally been to balance baseload powerplants, but may also be used to abate the fluctuating output of intermittent energy sources. Pumped storage provides a load at times of high electricity output and low electricity demand, enabling additional system peak capacity. In certain jurisdictions, electricity prices may be close to zero or occasionally negative on occasions that there is more electrical generation available than there is load available to absorb it; although at present this is rarely due to wind or solar power alone, increased wind and solar generation will increase the likelihood of such occurrences. It is particularly likely that pumped storage will become especially important as a balance for very large scale photovoltaic generation. Increased long distance transmission capacity combined with significant amounts of energy storage will be a crucial part of regulating any large-scale deployment of intermittent renewable power sources. The high non-firm renewable electricity penetration in some regions supplies 40% of annual output, but 60% may be reached before additional storage is necessary.\n\nWhile smaller scale pumped storage experiences an economy of scale penalty, there are small-scale installations of such technology, including a recent 13 MW project in Germany. Shell Energy has proposed a 5 MW project in the U.S. state of Washington. Some have proposed small pumped storage plants in buildings, although these are economically unfeasible given the economies of scale present. Also, a large volume of water is required for a meaningful storage capacity which is a difficult fit for an urban setting. Nevertheless, some authors defend its technological simplicity and secure provision of water as important externalities.\n\nThe first use of pumped storage was in the 1890s in Italy and Switzerland. In the 1930s reversible hydroelectric turbines became available. These turbines could operate as both turbine-generators and in reverse as electric motor driven pumps. The latest in large-scale engineering technology are variable speed machines for greater efficiency. These machines operate in synchronization with the network frequency when generating, but operate asynchronously (independent of the network frequency) when pumping.\n\nThe first use of pumped-storage in the United States was in 1930 by the Connecticut Electric and Power Company, using a large reservoir located near New Milford, Connecticut, pumping water from the Housatonic River to the storage reservoir 230 feet above.\n\nIn 2009, world pumped storage generating capacity was 104 GW, while other sources claim 127 GW, which comprises the vast majority of all types of utility grade electric storage. The EU had 38.3 GW net capacity (36.8% of world capacity) out of a total of 140 GW of hydropower and representing 5% of total net electrical capacity in the EU. Japan had 25.5 GW net capacity (24.5% of world capacity).\n\nIn 2010 the United States had 21.5 GW of pumped storage generating capacity (20.6% of world capacity). PSH generated (net) -5.501 GWh of energy in 2010 in the US because more energy is consumed in pumping than is generated. Nameplate pumped storage capacity had grown to 21.6 GW by 2014, with pumped storage comprising 97% of grid-scale energy storage in the US. As of late 2014, there were 51 active project proposals with a total of 39 GW of new nameplate capacity across all stages of the FERC licensing process for new pumped storage hydroelectric plants in the US, but no new plants were currently under construction in the US at the time.\n\nThe five largest operational pumped-storage plants are listed below \"(for a detailed list see List of pumped-storage hydroelectric power stations)\":\n\nIn June 2018 the Australian federal government announced that 14 sites had been identified in Tasmania for pumped storage hydro, with the potential of adding 4.8GW to the national grid if a second interconnector beneath Bass Strait was constructed.\n\nConventional hydroelectric dams may also make use of pumped storage in a hybrid system that both generates power from water naturally flowing into the reservoir as well as storing water pumped back to the reservoir from below the dam. The Grand Coulee Dam in the US was expanded with a pump-back system in 1973. Existing dams may be repowered with reversing turbines thereby extending the length of time the plant can operate at capacity. Optionally a pump back powerhouse such as the Russell Dam (1992) may be added to a dam for increased generating capacity. Making use of an existing dams upper reservoir and transmission system can expedite projects and reduce costs.\n\nPumped storage plants can operate with seawater, although there are additional challenges compared to using fresh water. In 1999, the 30 MW Yanbaru project in Okinawa was the first demonstration of seawater pumped storage. It has since been decommissioned. A 300 MW seawater-based Lanai Pumped Storage Project was considered for Lanai, Hawaii, and seawater-based projects have been proposed in Ireland. A pair of proposed projects in the Atacama Desert in northern Chile would use 600 MW of photovoltaic solar (Skies of Tarapacá) together with 300 MW of pumped storage (Mirror of Tarapacá) raising seawater up a coastal cliff.\n\nThe use of underground reservoirs has been investigated. Recent examples include the proposed Summit project in Norton, Ohio, the proposed Maysville project in Kentucky (underground limestone mine), and the Mount Hope project in New Jersey, which was to have used a former iron mine as the lower reservoir. The proposed energy storage at the Callio site in Pyhäjärvi (Finland) would utilize the deepest base metal mine in Europe, with elevation difference. Several new underground pumped storage projects have been proposed. Cost-per-kilowatt estimates for these projects can be lower than for surface projects if they use existing underground mine space. There are limited opportunities involving suitable underground space, but the number of underground pumped storage opportunities may increase if abandoned coal mines prove suitable.\n\nIn Bendigo, Victoria, Australia, the Bendigo Sustainability Group has proposed the use of the old gold mines under Bendigo for Pumped Hydro Energy Storage. Bendigo has the greatest concentration of deep shaft hard rock mines anywhere in the world with over 5,000 shafts sunk under Bendigo in the second half of the 19th Century. The deepest shaft extends 1,406 metres vertically underground. A recent pre-feasibility study has shown the concept to be viable with a generation capacity of 30 MW and a run time of 6 hours using a water head of over 750 metres.\n\nSmall pumped-storage hydropower plants can be built on streams and within infrastructures, such as drinking water networks and artificial snow making infrastructures. Such plants provide distributed energy storage and distributed flexible electricity production and can contribute to the decentralized integration of intermittent renewable energy technologies, such as wind power and solar power. Reservoirs that can be used for small pumped-storage hydropower plants could include natural or artificial lakes, reservoirs within other structures such as irrigation, or unused portions of mines or underground military installations. In Switzerland one study suggested that the total installed capacity of small pumped-storage hydropower plants in 2011 could be increased by 3 to 9 times by providing adequate policy instruments.\n\nIn March 2017 the research project StEnSea (Storing Energy at Sea) announced their successful completion of a four-week test of a pumped storage underwater reservoir. In this configuration a hollow sphere submerged and anchored at great depth acts as the lower reservoir, while the upper reservoir is the enclosing body of water. Electricity is created when water is let in via a reversible turbine integrated into the sphere. During off-peak hours the turbine changes direction and pumps the water out again, using \"surplus\" electricity from the grid. The quantity of power created when water is let in grows proportionally to the height of the column of water above the sphere, in other words: the deeper the sphere is located, the more potential energy it can store, which can be transformed into electric power. On the other hand, pumping the water back out at greater depths also uses up more power, since the turbine-turned-pump must act on the same entire column of water.\n\nAs such the energy storage capacity of the submerged reservoir is not governed by the gravitational energy in the traditional sense, but rather by the vertical pressure variation.\n\nWhile StEnSea's test took place at a depth of 100 m in the fresh water Lake Constance, the technology is foreseen to be used in salt water at greater depths. Since the submerged reservoir needs only a connecting electrical cable, the depth at which it can be employed is limited only by the depth at which the turbine can function, currently limited to 700 m. The challenge of designing salt water pumped storage in this underwater configuration brings a range of advantages:\n\nA current commercial design featuring a sphere with an inner diameter of 30 m submerged to 700 m would correspond to a 20 MWh capacity which with a 5 MW turbine would lead to a 4-hour discharge time. An energy park with multiple such reservoirs would bring the storage cost to around a few eurocents per kWh with construction and equipment costs in the range €1,200-€1,400 per kW. To avoid excessive transmission cost and loss, the reservoirs should be placed off deep water coasts of densely populated areas, such as Norway, Spain, USA and Japan. With this limitation the concept would allow for worldwide electricity storage of close to 900 GWh.\n\nFor comparison, a traditional, gravity-based pumped storage capable of storing 20 MWh in a water reservoir the size of a 30 m sphere would need a hydraulic head of 519 m with the elevation spanned by a pressurized water pipe requiring typically a hill or mountain for support.\n\nUsing a pumped-storage system of cisterns and small generators, pico hydro may also be effective for \"closed loop\" home energy generation systems.\n"}
{"id": "36123517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36123517", "title": "Rajan Zed prayer protest", "text": "Rajan Zed prayer protest\n\nThe Rajan Zed prayer protest were events surrounding the first official offering of a Hindu prayer at the United States Senate.\n\nOn July 12, 2007, Rajan Zed, a Hindu cleric and a noted leader in Interfaith Relations from the Indian Association of Northern Nevada based in Reno, appeared at the United States Senate as its guest Chaplain.\n\nSeveral days prior to the scheduled prayer the American Family Association (AFA) called on its membership to phone and email their Senators \"expressing your disappointment in the Senate decision to invite a Hindu to open the session with prayer.\" In the Action Alerts to their membership the AFA cited self-styled historian David Barton saying he wonders \"why the U.S. government is seeking the invocation of a non-monotheistic god. Barton points out that since Hindus worship multiple gods, the prayer will be completely outside the American paradigm, flying in the face of the American motto 'One Nation Under God'.\" They quoted Barton as saying \"In Hindu[ism], you have not one God, but many, many, many, many, many gods. And certainly that was never in the minds of those who did the Constitution, did the Declaration [of Independence] when they talked about Creator—that's not one that fits here because we don't know which creator we're talking about within the Hindu religion. This [Hinduism] is not a religion that has produced great things in the world. You look at India, you look at Nepal—there's persecution going in both of those countries that is gendered by the religious belief that is present there, and Hindu dominates in both of those countries.\" While admitting the prayer is legal, he stated \"One definitely wonders about the pragmatic side of it. What is the message, and why is the message needed? And will it actually communicate anything other than engender with folks like me a lot of questions?\"\n\nCritics of Barton take issue with his implication that Hinduism is a polytheistic religion, saying \"it is a henotheistic religion, like very early forms worship described in the Hebrew Scriptures (Old Testament). Hindus recognize a single deity. They view other gods and goddesses as facets, forms, manifestations, or aspects of that one supreme God.\" They also took issue with his claim that Hinduism has not produced great things pointing to contributions by Hinduism like \"Mahatma Gandhi whose \"Path of Nonviolence\" inspired Martin Luther King, Jr. to fight racism and segregation, and formed the basis of Nelson Mandela's fight against Apartheid\". and inventions by Hinduism such as Yoga, Kalarippayattu, Ayurveda, The Decimal Number System, Chess and Plastic surgery.\n\nFormer U.S. Navy Chaplain, Gordon Klingenschmitt (who was court-martialed for disobeying a direct order and protesting non-sectarian prayer while in uniform) protested the Hindu prayer on July 10, 2007 by going to offices in the Senate and requesting \"equal time\" to pray \"in Jesus' name.\" Harry Reid's office informed him that they wouldn't sponsor him as he was not a constituent of Nevada that the Senator represents. As Klingenschmitt was from New York he requested Hillary Clinton's office give him \"equal time\". Her staff refused \"because Senate Chaplain Barry Black is a Seventh-Day Adventist who regularly prays on the Senate floor\" so they held that the question of \"equal time\" for \"praying in Jesus' name\" was moot. Klingenschmitt resented this feeling as Black \"prays \"'non-sectarian' prayers\". He was told that Black might be able to schedule him as a guest chaplain. Black's staffers told him his appointment calendar was booked till 2009.\n\nAmericans United for Separation of Church and State (AU) remembering the Venkatachalapathi Samuldrala prayer controversy of September, 2000 where a Hindu prayer in the United States House of Representatives sparked controversy and negative comments from the Christian group the Family Research Council (FRC), AU stated \"Now the FRC gets a chance to really make amends. We challenge the group to issue a public statement affirming religious diversity in America and welcoming Hindus to our rich tapestry of faiths. If we must have such prayers before Congress, they should respect religious diversity. Surely the FRC has no problem with that?\"\n\nRajan Zed, an Indian immigrant and American citizen, had served as guest Chaplain for the Nevada State Senate and Assembly and delivered the first Hindu prayer there (on March 19 and May 7, 2007). Speaking of his upcoming appearance before the Federal Senate he spoke about the prayer in an email to Cybercast News Service. Zed, apparently aware of the email campaign to prevent the prayer, anticipated the invitation would not be revoked and the prayer would go smoothly. He said \"I believe that despite our philosophical differences, we should work together for the common objectives of human improvement, love, and respect for others.\" He called the event \"an illustrious day for all Americans and a memorable day for Indian Americans when prayers from ancient Hindu scriptures will be read in the great hall of democracy\". He stated that the prayer would draw on Hindu religious texts including the Rig Veda, the Upanishads, and the Bhagavad-Gita, and likely begin and end with \"'OM,' the mystical syllable containing the universe, which in Hinduism is used to introduce and conclude religious work.\" He stressed it would be \"universal in approach.\"\n\nAt the Senate chambers on July 12, 2007 Rajan Zed (wearing the traditional sandalpaste tilak on his forehead, a ruddraksh mala, and saffron colored clothing) approached the podium. He was prepared to give the first official Hindu prayer ever offered at the Senate as a guest chaplain upon the request of Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid of Nevada. This would also open the day's proceedings (which were largely centered around the Iraq war).\n\nAs Zed moved to start the prayer he was loudly interrupted by Ante Pavkovic who stood up in the gallery holding a Bible aloft and shouting \"Lord Jesus, forgive us father for allowing a prayer of the wicked, which is an abomination in your sight. This is an abomination. We shall have no other gods before You. Lord Jesus, have mercy on our nation for allowing this abomination, this idolatry, for violating the First Commandment 'Thou shalt have no other gods before me.' God forgive our nation, in Jesus name, Amen.\" The presiding officer for the Senate that morning was Senator Bob Casey, Jr. he immediately ordered the Sergeant-at-Arms to restore order in the Senate Chamber and the Capitol police restrained Ante who continued to shout first quoting Psalm 33:12 \"Blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord\" and then one of the Christian Scripture's Ten Commandments \"Thou shalt have no other gods before me\", closing with \"You are the One true living God.\"\n\nWith Ante in custody, Zed began his prayer but was interrupted by Kathy Pavkovic who shouted a quote from John 14:6 \"Jesus is the way, the truth and the life: no man cometh unto the Father, but by me.\" Again Casey ordered the Sergeant-at-Arms to restore order and the Capitol Police moved to arrest Kathy Pavkovic. As she was restrained by the Sergeant-at-Arms, the Pavkovics' daughter Christan Renee Sugar yelled \"Father, forgive us for betraying your Son Jesus!\" and was also restrained. As they were escorted out they continued to direct their shouts at Zed, saying \"No Lord but Jesus Christ!\" and \"There's only one true God!\"\n\nThe three protesters belonged to Operation Save America/Operation Rescue and had traveled to D.C. from North Carolina \"to lobby against a hate-crimes bill that would extend certain protections to gay people\". They were arrested by the Capitol police and charged with a misdemeanor for disrupting Congress. While being handcuffed Mr. Pavkovic told reporters that they were motivated to act because they were \"Christians and patriots\".\n\nAfter a period of visible discomfort Zed was able to proceed with his prayer (which also made mention of the recent death of Lady Bird Johnson):\n\n<poem>\nLet us pray.\nWe meditate on the transcendental Glory of the Deity Supreme, who is inside the heart of the Earth, inside the life of the sky, and inside the soul of the Heaven. May He stimulate and illuminate our minds.\nLead us from the unreal to the real, from darkness to light, and from death to immortality. May we be protected together. May we be nourished together. May we work together with great vigor. May our study be enlightening. May no obstacle arise between us.\nMay the Senators strive constantly to serve the welfare of the world, performing their duties with the welfare of others always in mind, because by devotion to selfless work one attains the supreme goal of life. May they work carefully and wisely, guided by compassion and without thought for themselves.\nUnited your resolve, united your hearts, may your spirits be as one, that you may long dwell in unity and concord.\nPeace, peace, peace be unto all.\nLord, we ask You to comfort the family of former First Lady, Lady Bird Johnson.\nAmen.</poem>\n\nAfter the prayer Reid (himself of a minority faith - The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints) rose to defend the choice of Zed especially during debates about war. Reid went over all of Zed's involvement in causes around Reno and Nevada, and spoke of his own encounters with students from India while he was attending Utah State. He remembered giving car rides to these students and being invited with his young wife to a traditional Indian feast when it was near his time to graduate which he recalled fondly. During this feast the Indian students gave him gifts including a hand carved statue of Gandhi which Reid said \"I have protected and saved that all these years. It is in my office. I have always had it there. The reason I mention that is that if people have any misunderstanding about Indians and Hindus, all they have to do is think of Gandhi. Here is a man who changed the world, a man who believed in peace. We heard the prayer: Peace, peace, peace. If there was ever a time, with this international war on terror that we are fighting now, where people have to understand how important peace is, think of Gandhi, a man who gave his life for peace, a tiny little man in physical stature but a giant in morality. Gandhi is the man that Martin Luther King, Jr., followed. ...I think it speaks well of our country that someone representing the faith of about a billion people comes here and can speak in communication with our heavenly Father regarding peace. I am grateful he is here. I am thankful he was able to offer this prayer of peace in the Capitol. I say to everyone concerned, think of Gandhi. If you have a problem in the world, think what this great man has done to bring peace and nonviolence to a troubled world.\"\n\nAnte Pavkovic in a statement made to Gordon Klingenschmitt after being released from jail, said \"The Senate was already being disturbed before we arrived. The sin of Hindu idolatry was greatly disrupting the sanctity of the Senate. We only prayed to preserve the covenant our nation has with the most-high God, who established our Republic, in Jesus name.\"\n\nTim Wildmon, president of the AFA that had been calling for its members to contact Senators to try and prevent the prayer, distanced his group from the act of civil disobedience, \"We would not ever encourage shouting in the gallery like that, we asked people to contact their Senators to show their disapproval.\"\n\nOn September 11, 2007 the three protestors appeared before Superior Court Judge Robert Rigsby, in Washington, D.C.. While Operation Save America had declared that Roy Moore (sometimes referred to as Alabama's \"Ten Commandments judge\") would personally defend the three, he did not but his \"Foundation for Moral Law\" sent Ben DuPre to represent them. The protestors were told the charges would be dropped if they did not return to the Capitol grounds for a year.\n\nOperation Save America released a statement for the press entitled \"Theology Moved to the Senate and was Arrested\" by their director Rev. Flip Benham. The statement took Senators to task for not joining the protest. It stated that the Congressional \"chamber was violated by a false Hindu god. The Senate was opened with a Hindu prayer placing the false god of Hinduism on a level playing field with the One True God, Jesus Christ. This would never have been allowed by our Founding Fathers. Not one Senator had the backbone to stand as our Founding Fathers stood. They stood on the Gospel of Jesus Christ! There were three in the audience with the courage to stand and proclaim, 'Thou shalt have no other gods before me.' They were immediately removed from the chambers, arrested, and are in jail now. God bless those who stand for Jesus as we know that He stands for them.\"\n\nBenham also published an essay about the protest on the Operation Save America website \"A Hindu opening prayer in the United States Senate? How the Mighty have fallen! Have our elected officials forgotten so quickly the God of our Pilgrim Forefathers, the God of our Founding Fathers, and the God who has blessed America and made her the mightiest nation in the world? Has Jesus, who made this nation free, been prostrated to the same level as every other religion? The events that took place in the Senate chambers yesterday would indicate that the answer is, \"Yes!\" Well then, what happens when United States senators fail to stand for truth, and bow their knee to the false god of political correctness? Simple Christian moms and dads, grandmas and grandpas, sons and daughters, must stand up for Jesus!\" He praised the three for giving a \"rebuke to a nation that has forsaken the God of our fathers. They rose to their feet to rightly proclaim the one true God—Jesus Christ—the One before Whom every knee shall bow and every tongue shall confess.\" He called the protest a \"simple act of biblical obedience\" which \"has inspired and encouraged the hearts of hundreds of thousands of Christians across this nation.\" He warned politicians in the upcoming general election of 2008 that \"The Christian vote is not for sale. Republicans you cannot depend upon us. If you can't find it in yourself to stand for Christ—we can't find it in ourselves to vote for you.\" He concluded saying \"The falsehood of Hinduism was eloquently challenged yesterday by those who know the truth that sets people free—Jesus. We pray that their lives will inspire many to do the same and call our nation to repentance and to return to the God of our fathers. May the hallowed halls and chambers of the Congress of the United States of America never again entertain the false religions of this age.\"\n\nLater when speaking to a reporter, Benham said of the protest \"What we have here is just a wonderful example of Christian theology becoming biography in the sacred chamber of the United States Senate, as a Hindu was offering up a prayer to open up the session this morning. And the folks that were there [the Pavkovics]...waited for the Senate, or a Senator with a backbone, to remind the Hindu that there is one God who made this country great, and his name is Jesus. ...They thought they needed to go and represent the Lord who made this nation great. ...other religions [are] being held on a par with Christianity. Of course, we have said that is not true, that indeed Christianity is one way.\" Responding to the AFA's criticism that the protestors should have petitioned their Senators rather than break the law, Benham said \"Our answer is, when one stands up in the face of gross idolatry being allowed in the Senate, in the chamber of the United States Senate, it is incumbent on a Christian to stand up and speak the truth. No matter what, we must obey God rather than men. When you stand up and are arrested, and the Hindu is allowed to go free, this country has gone upside-down.\" \"Our answer is,\" Benham said, \"When one stands up in the face of gross idolatry being allowed in the Senate, in the chamber of the United States Senate, it is incumbent on a Christian to stand up and speak the truth. No matter what, we must obey God rather than men.\" When pressed by a reporter, he clarified that he did not think non-Christians should be arrested, but asked \"Now, why are Hindus allowed here? Why are Muslims allowed here? Because we are a nation that's free, built upon the principles of almighty God.\"\n\nHaving made no response to Americans United call to come out in support of religious diversity before the prayer took place, Tony Perkins an official for the Christian group the Family Research Council issued a statement on the day of the protest saying \"No one can legitimately challenge the fact that the God America refers to in the pledge, our national motto, and other places is the monotheistic God of the Jewish and Christian faith. ...There is no historic connection between America and the polytheistic creed of the Hindu faith. I seriously doubt that Americans want to change the motto, 'In God we Trust,' which Congress adopted in 1955, to, 'In gods we Trust.' That is essentially what the United States Senate did today.\"\n\nHaving called on its members to act to prevent it from ever happening and distancing the group from the methods of the protestors, the American Family Association's Tim Wildmon stated his group's disgust that the prayer had gone ahead in the first place, \"This goes against all history and tradition of our country. This fella does not even believe in one God as the Constitution and the Declaration of Independence speak of... So we object to this kind of prayer before the United States Senate. The god of popular culture today is tolerance and multi-culturalism, and so I guess the Senate wants to see how far they can go with this idea that all religion and faiths are equal and the same. Hopefully, it won't happen again.\"\n\nGordon James Klingenschmitt, who was sitting in the galleries when the protest was made, wrote \"No senators seemed to notice, nor did any object, while Zed committed the sin of idolatry, right there in public, violating the first of God's Ten Commandments with full government permission. Sure, a Hindu prayer (to millions of false gods) may be 'legal' by American law, but it still violates God's law: 'I am the Lord Thy God. Thou shalt have no other gods before me.' Imagine the surprise of idolaters on judgment day, arguing to the most-high God that He shouldn't be angry, 'because idolatry was perfectly legal according to American law.' Perhaps that day God will remind them of Paul's warning to the Corinthians, 'Idolaters ... will not inherit the kingdom of heaven.' ...Had the Pavkovic family simply said 'Amen' to the Hindu prayer, or prayed a Hindu 'ohm' meditation, they'd have been viewed as supportive, not disruptive, and wouldn't have been arrested. But since the content of their prayer voiced opposition to Hinduism, so they were arrested and jailed as 'disrupters,' arrested for the content of their prayer, nothing else. I applaud their spiritual courage, perhaps the only people present who feared God's law more than man's law.\"\n\nBarry W. Lynn of Americans United for Separation of Church and State held that \"This shows the intolerance of many Religious Right activists. They say they want more religion in the public square, but it's clear they mean only their religion. America is a land of extraordinary religious diversity, and the Religious Right just can't seem to accept that fact. I don't think the Senate should open with prayers, but if it's going to happen, the invocations ought to reflect the diversity of the American people. The Religious Right promotes a deeply skewed version of American history. Our founders wanted separation of church and state and full religious liberty for all faith traditions. The episode today shows we still have a ways to go to achieve that goal.\"\n\nSpeaking to a reporter Zed said \"I thought that it will be a simple, roughly 90-second prayer, and it will go very smoothly (as the prayers are a time for reflection), like the ones I delivered in the Nevada State Assembly and Nevada State Senate a few months back. And everybody will go back to the normal routine. ...This was reportedly the first Senate prayer since its formation in 1789, which was protested.\" Reflecting on the reaction to the protest, he said \"Although the blogs it generated were mixed, the emails and letters I received about the prayer and protest were all inspiring, most of these apologetic [about the interruption] and thankful. Although we have much more conscious awareness of religious pluralism today than in the past, the religious as well as non-religious people need to have deeper, broader and more inclusive understanding of religion, which still wields huge power.\" Thinking of those who opposed the prayer he said \"Despite our philosophical differences, we have similar objectives. We all believe in a superior being and we simply differ on how each of us perceives/embodies/responds to Ultimate/Divine Reality. Differences begin when we start claiming to be the sole guardians of 'truth.' We should share our quest for truth. Dialogue will make us spiritually richer. We need to overcome the prejudices handed down to us by the previous generations.\"\n\nSoon after the protest at the U.S. Senate Rajan Zed served as guest chaplain offering a Hindu prayer before the California State Senate. Zed delivered the prayer without incident on August 27, 2007 with the appreciation of State Sen. Elaine Alquist and the official State Senate Chaplain Rev. James Richardson, an Episcopal priest. There was no complaints over the prayer from California's Conservative Christian Community, and the Rev. Louis Sheldon, who founded the state's \"Traditional Values Coalition\" declared \"I don't see any problem with it at all. I would have no problems with a Hindu praying, just as I wouldn't an evangelical Christian.\" National groups continued in their opposition to Hindu Legislative prayers with Wildmon speaking for the AFA stating \"We're not opposed to the ability of people to worship their own gods or god, but when it comes to our civil government...it's always been the recognition of the God of the Bible. Every religion is not equal. That's my belief. That's logic.\" California's Chief Sergeant-at-Arms for the state Senate admitted that they had taken extra security precautions in case of protests against the Zed's prayer.\n\nSeeking to promote understanding of Hinduism and \"emphasizes the multicultural and religious freedom aspect of this country\" throughout the end of 2007 and into 2008 Zed made requests and was granted a guest chaplaincy to recite Hindu prayers at State Legislatures in New Mexico, Colorado, Utah, Washington, Oregon, and Arizona.\n\nAs the 2008 Presidential elections approached American Hindu organizations urged presidential candidates to denounce the protestors. The executive director of the Hindu American Foundation, Ishani Chowdhury, stated \"if you look at it as a reflection of a larger number of people...we need people to condemn what happened and highlight the need for dialogue\".\n\nSince the 2007 protest Rajan Zed offered Hindu opening prayers in various State Senates and State Assemblies/Houses-of-Representatives and at various County Commissions/Boards and City Councils across the United States. On June 19, 2014 he offered the opening prayer as a guest chaplain at the United States House of Representatives. These events occurred without any notable public controversy.\n\nIn March 2015 Rajan Zed was the focus of another protest of legislators over his leading a legislative invocation at the Idaho State Senate. Sen. Steve Vick, with reported support from his constituents, tried to prevent Zed from offering the prayer. Failing to prevent the prayer Vick and two other Republican state senators refused to enter the chamber until Zed had finished. Vick held that having a Hindu invocation would \"send a message we're not happy with the way America is\" and held that people under Hinduism \"have a caste system. They worship cows.\" Joining in the boycott of the prayer was Sen. Sheryl Nuxoll who stated \"Hindu is a false faith with false gods. I think it's great that Hindu people can practice their religion, but since we're the Senate, we're setting an example of what we, Idaho, believe.\" Sen. Lori Den Hartog joined the boycott holding it would be disingenuous to her Christian faith to attend and \"It was a personal decision, I didn't want to announce it prior to the event.\" Zed's prayer as guest chaplain was in English and Sanskrit focusing on selflessness and peace.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3522984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3522984", "title": "Recognition of same-sex unions in Lithuania", "text": "Recognition of same-sex unions in Lithuania\n\nLithuania does not recognise same-sex marriages or civil partnerships. A bill to grant unmarried couples (including same-sex couples) some limited rights is pending in the Lithuanian Parliament (Seimas).\n\nOn 25 March 2015, 9 members of the Seimas (Parliament) from the Social Democratic Party and the Liberal Movement introduced a partnership bill. Prime Minister and leader of the Social Democratic Party Algirdas Butkevičius expressed his opposition to the bill. On 6 May 2015, the Committee on Legal Affairs announced that they could find no constitutional barriers to same-sex civil partnerships in the Baltic State. The bill was not voted upon and died at the end of Parliament's term in November 2016. A similar bill was introduced by deputies from the Liberal Movement on 30 May 2017. The bill was rejected in its first reading in a 29-59 vote with 20 abstentions, on 15 June 2017.\n\nIn 2017, the Lithuanian Farmers and Greens Union and the Homeland Union proposed a bill to establish \"cohabitation agreements\" as an alternative to civil partnerships. The proposed legislation would guarantee cohabitants hospital visitation rights and the right to inherit a late partner's property. Povilas Urbšys, one of the authors of the proposal said: \"Our registered project will effectively contribute to legal clarity, regulate property rights and some property unrelated relations between people living together and will also help to avoid negative consequences when the cohabitation is dissolved.\" The proposal, which was criticised by LGBT groups, explicitly stipulates that the cohabitants entering the agreement do not intend to create family relations. The proposal was preliminarily approved by the Seimas with 46 votes for, 17 votes against and 6 abstentions on 31 May 2017 and sent to further consideration. On 25 October 2017, the Lithuanian Government announced its support for the bill.\n\nOn 14 February 2018, appearing at an LGBT rally in Vilnius, Prime Minister Saulius Skvernelis called on the Seimas to recognise same-sex partnerships.\n\nSame-sex marriages are not legal in Lithuania, with the Civil Code defining marriage as a voluntary agreement between a man and a woman. Moreover, there is an additional article in the Civil Code that explicitly bans same-sex marriages. Nevertheless, a drive to amend the Constitution to ban same-sex marriages was reportedly under way in December 2005 by a conservative member of the Parliament, who had started collecting signatures for such an amendment. Julius Sabatauskas, chairman of the Parliament's Legal Committee, however, denounced the plan and said it was unneeded. Some MPs say Lithuania's Constitution already bans same-sex marriage. The Constitution states: \"Marriage shall be concluded upon the free mutual consent of man and woman.\" The actual effect of this statement is unknown and it has yet to be challenged in court.\n\nAccording to the 2015 Eurobarometer, 24% of Lithuanians supported same-sex marriage, the fourth lowest among EU member states alongside Slovakia. EU-wide support was 61%.\n\n"}
{"id": "22969416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22969416", "title": "Status–income disequilibrium", "text": "Status–income disequilibrium\n\nStatus–income disequilibrium (sometimes abbreviated SID) is a political term used to describe a desirable high status job with relatively low income. It is a variation on the sociological term \"status inconsistency\". The phrase was coined by \"The New York Times\" columnist David Brooks in his 1996 article \"The Tragedy of SID\". He wrote:\nDavid Brooks characterized the \"sufferers\" from SID in a long list, which includes TV news producers, museum curators, classical music performers, White House aides, and politicians, among others. Other journalists applied the term to \"authors and academics\", journalists, writers, \"British middle classes\", and even to the British MPs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10941476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10941476", "title": "TALON (database)", "text": "TALON (database)\n\nTALON (Threat and Local Observation Notice), was a database maintained by the United States Air Force after the September 11th terrorist attacks. It was authorized for creation in 2002 by Deputy Defense Secretary Paul D. Wolfowitz, in order to collect and evaluate information about possible threats to US servicemembers and civilian workers in the US and at overseas military installations. The database included lists of anti-war groups and people who have attended anti-war rallies. TALON reports are collected by various US Defense Department agencies including law enforcement, intelligence, counterintelligence and security, and were analyzed by a Pentagon agency, the Counterintelligence Field Activity. CIFA had existed since 2004, and its size and budget are secret.\n\nOn August 21, 2007, the US Defense Department announced that it would shut down the database, as the database had been criticized for gathering information on peace activists and other political activists who posed no credible threat, but who had been one topic of this database due to their political views. The department is working on a new system which would replace TALON, but for the time being, information on force protection threats will be handled by the FBI’s Guardian reporting system.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29182754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29182754", "title": "Theories of famines", "text": "Theories of famines\n\nThe conventional explanation until 1951 for the cause of famines was the decline of food availability (abbreviated as FAD for food availability decline). The assumption was that the central cause of all famines was a decline in food availability. However this does not explain why only a certain section of the population such as the agricultural laborer was affected by famines while others were insulated from them.\n\nIt has been suggested that the causal mechanism for precipitating starvation includes many variables other than just decline of food availability such as the inability of an agricultural laborer to exchange his primary entitlement, i.e. labor for rice, when his employment became erratic or was completely eliminated. According to the proposed theory, famines are due to an inability of a person to exchange his entitlements rather than to food unavailability. This theory is called the failure of exchange entitlements or FEE in short.\n\nAmartya Sen advances the theory that lack of democracy and famines are interrelated; he cites the example of the Bengal famine of 1943, stating that it only occurred because of the lack of democracy in India under British rule. He further argues that the situation was aggravated by the British government's suspension of trade in rice and grains among various Indian provinces.\n\nOlivier Rubin's review of the evidence disagrees with Sen; after examining the cases of post-Independence India, Niger, and Malawi, he finds that \"democracy is no panacea against famine.\" Rubin's analysis questions whether democracy and a free press were sufficient to truly avert famine in 1967 and 1972 (the Maharashtra famine involved some 130,000 deaths), and notes that some dynamics of electoral democracy complicate rather than bring about famine relief efforts. Rubin does not address colonial period famines.\n\nOn the other hand, Andrew Banik's study \"Starvation and India's democracy\" affirms Sen's thesis, but indicates that while democracy has been able to prevent famines in India, it has not been sufficient to avoid severe under-nutrition and starvation deaths, which Banik calls a 'silent emergency' in the country.\n\nAccording to a FEWSNET report, \"Famines are not natural phenomena, they are catastrophic political failures.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "850663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=850663", "title": "Trust (emotion)", "text": "Trust (emotion)\n\nIn a social context, trust has several connotations. Definitions of trust typically refer to a situation characterized by the following aspects: One party (trustor) is willing to rely on the actions of another party (trustee); the situation is directed to the future. In addition, the trustor (voluntarily or forcedly) abandons control over the actions performed by the trustee. As a consequence, the trustor is uncertain about the outcome of the other's actions; they can only develop and evaluate expectations. The uncertainty involves the risk of failure or harm to the trustor if the trustee will not behave as desired.\n\nTrust can be attributed to relationships between people. It can be demonstrated that humans have a natural disposition to trust and to judge trustworthiness that can be traced to the neurobiological structure and activity of a human brain. Some studies indicate that trust can be altered e.g. by the application of oxytocin.\n\nWhen it comes to the relationship between people and technology, the attribution of trust is a matter of dispute. The intentional stance demonstrates that trust can be validly attributed to human relationships with complex technologies. However, rational reflection leads to the rejection of an ability to trust technological artefacts.\n\nOne of the key current challenges in the social sciences is to re-think how the rapid progress of technology has impacted constructs such as trust. This is specifically true for information technology that dramatically alters causation in social systems.\n\nIn the social sciences, the subtleties of trust are a subject of ongoing research. In sociology and psychology the degree to which one party trusts another is a measure of belief in the honesty, fairness, or benevolence of another party. The term \"confidence\" is more appropriate for a belief in the competence of the other party. A failure in trust may be forgiven more easily if it is interpreted as a failure of competence rather than a lack of benevolence or honesty. In economics, trust is often conceptualized as reliability in transactions. In all cases trust is a heuristic decision rule, allowing the human to deal with complexities that would require unrealistic effort in rational reasoning.\n\nWhen it comes to trust, sociology is concerned with the position and role of trust in social systems. Interest in trust has grown significantly since the early eighties, from the early works of Luhmann, Barber and Giddens (see for a more detailed overview). This growth of interest in trust has been stimulated by on-going changes in society, characterised as late modernity and post-modernity.\n\nTrust is one of several social constructs, an element of the social reality. It does not exist outside of our vision of the other. This image can be real or imaginary, but it is this one which permits the creation of the Trust. Other constructs, frequently discussed together with trust, are: control, confidence, risk, meaning and power. Trust is naturally attributable to relationships between social actors, both individuals and groups (social systems). Because trust is a social construct, it is valid to discuss whether trust can be trusted (e.g.), i.e. whether social trust operates as expected.\n\nSviatoslav contends that society needs trust because it increasingly finds itself operating at the edge between confidence in what is known from everyday experience, and contingency of new possibilities. Without trust, all contingent possibilities should be always considered, leading to a paralysis of inaction. Trust can be seen as a bet on one of contingent futures, the one that may deliver benefits. Once the bet is decided (i.e. trust is granted), the trustor suspends his or her disbelief, and the possibility of a negative course of action is not considered at all. Because of it, trust acts as a reductor of social complexity, allowing for actions that are otherwise too complex to be considered (or even impossible to consider at all); specifically for cooperation. Sociology tends to focus on two distinct views: the macro view of social systems, and a micro view of individual social actors (where it borders with social psychology). Similarly, views on trust follow this dichotomy. Therefore, on one side the systemic role of trust can be discussed, with a certain disregard to the psychological complexity underpinning individual trust. The behavioural approach to trust is usually assumed while actions of social actors are measurable, leading to statistical modelling of trust. This systemic approach can be contrasted with studies on social actors and their decision-making process, in anticipation that understanding of such a process will explain (and allow to model) the emergence of trust.\n\nSociology acknowledges that the contingency of the future creates dependency between social actors, and specifically that the trustor becomes dependent on the trustee. Trust is seen as one of the possible methods to resolve such a dependency, being an attractive alternative to control. Trust is specifically valuable if the trustee is much more powerful than the trustor, yet the trustor is under social obligation to support the trustee.\n\nModern information technologies not only facilitated the transition towards post-modern society, but they also challenged traditional views on trust. Empirical studies confirms the new approach to the traditional question regarding whether technology artefacts can be attributed with trust. Trust is not attributable to artefacts, but it is a representation of trust in social actors such as designers, creators and operators of technology. Properties of technological artefacts form a message to determine trustworthiness of those agents.\n\nThe discussion about the impact of information technologies is still in progress. However, a conceptual re-thinking of technology-mediated social groups, or the proposition of a unifying socio-technical view on trust, from the perspective of social actors.\n\nIn psychology, trust is believing that the person who is trusted will do what is expected. It starts at the family and grows to others. According to the psychoanalyst Erik Erikson development of basic trust is the first state of psychosocial development occurring, or failing, during the first two years of life. Success results in feelings of security, trust, and optimism, while failure leads towards an orientation of insecurity and mistrust possibly resulting in attachment disorders.\n\nA person's dispositional tendency to trust others can be considered a personality trait and as such is one of the strongest predictors of subjective well-being. It has been argued that trust increases subjective well-being because it enhances the quality of one's interpersonal relationships, and happy people are skilled at fostering good relationships.\n\nTrust is integral to the idea of social influence: it is easier to influence or persuade someone who is trusting. The notion of trust is increasingly adopted to predict acceptance of behaviors by others, institutions (e.g. government agencies) and objects such as machines. However, once again perception of honesty, competence and value similarity (slightly similar to benevolence) are essential. There are three different forms of trust. Trust is being vulnerable to someone even when they are trustworthy; trustworthiness are the characteristics or behaviors of one person that inspire positive expectations in another person, and trust propensity being able to rely on people. Once trust is lost, by obvious violation of one of these three determinants, it is very hard to regain. Thus there is clear asymmetry in the building versus destruction of trust. Hence being and acting trustworthy should be considered the only sure way to maintain a trust level.\n\nIncreasingly much research has been done on the notion of trust and its social implications:\n\n\nIn addition to the social influence, in organizational settings, trust may have a positive influence on the behaviors, perceptions, and performances of a person. Trust has a circular relationship with organizational justice perceptions such that perceived justice leads to trust which, in turn, promotes future perceptions of justice. One factor that enhances trust in a human being is facial resemblance. Through digital manipulation of facial resemblance in a two-person sequential trust game, supporting evidence was found that having similar facial features (facial resemblance) enhanced trust in a subject’s respective partner. Though facial resemblance was shown to increase trust, facial resemblance had the effect of decreased sexual desire in a particular partner. In a series of tests, digitally manipulated faces were presented to subjects to be evaluated for attractiveness within the context of a long term or short term relationship. The results showed that within the context of a short term relationship, which is dependent on sexual desire, similar facial features caused a decrease in said desire. Within the context of a long term relationship, which is dependent on trust, similar facial features increased the attractiveness of an individual, leading one to believe that facial resemblance and trust have great effects on relationships. Structure often creates trust in a person that encourages them to feel comfortable and excel in the workplace. Working anywhere may be stressful and takes effort. By having a conveniently organized area to work on, concentration will increase as well as effort. Structure is not just a method of order. It increases trust and therefore makes a workplace manageable. A structured, ordered environment produces trust as one may contain increased cooperation and perform on a higher level.\n\nPeople may work together and achieve success through trust while working on projects that rely on each individual’s contribution.\n\nConversely, where trust is absent, projects can fail, especially if this lack of trust has not been identified and addressed. This is one facet of VPEC-T analysis: This thinking framework is used when studying information systems. Identifying and dealing with cases where information providers, information users, and those responsible for processing information do not trust one another can result in the removal of a risk factor for a project.\n\nOne's social relationship characterized by low trust and norms that discourage academic engagement are expected to be associated with low academic achievement. Individuals that are in relationships characterized by high levels of social trust are more apt to openly exchange information and to act with caring benevolence toward one another than those in relationships lacking trust.\n\nAn important key to treating sexual victimization of a child is the rebuilding of trust between parent and child. Failure for the adults to validate the sexual abuse contributes to the child's difficulty towards trusting self and others. Trust is often affected by the erosion of a marriage. Children of divorce do not exhibit less trust in mothers, partners, spouses, friends, and associates than their peers of intact families. The impact of parental divorce is limited to trust in the father.\n\nThe social identity approach explains trust in strangers as a function of group-based stereotypes or in-group favouring behaviours based on salient group memberships. With regard to ingroup favoritism, people generally think well of strangers but expect better treatment from in-group members in comparison to out-group members. This greater expectation then translates into a higher propensity to trust an in-group rather than out-group member. It has been pointed out that it is only advantageous to form such expectations of an in-group stranger if they too know the group membership of the recipient.\n\nThere is considerable empirical activity related to the social identity approach. Allocator studies have frequently been employed to understand group-based trust in strangers. They may be operationalised as unilateral or bilateral relationships of exchange. General social categories such as university affiliation, course majors, and even ad-hoc groups have been used to distinguish between in-group and out-group members. In unilateral studies of trust, the participant would be asked to choose between envelopes containing money that was previously allocated by an in-group or out-group member. They would have had no prior or future opportunities for interaction, simulating Brewer’s notion that group membership was sufficient in bringing about group-based trust and hence cooperation. Participants could expect an amount ranging from nothing to the maximum value an allocator could give out. In bilateral studies of trust have employed an investment game devised by Berg and colleagues where individuals could choose to give a portion or none of their money to another. Any amount given would be tripled and the receiver would then decide on whether they would return the favour by giving money back to the sender. Trusting behaviour on the part of the sender and the eventual trustworthiness of the receiver was exemplified through the giving of money.\n\nThe above empirical research has demonstrated that when group membership is made salient and known to both parties, trust is granted more readily to in-group members than out-group members. This occurred even when the in-group stereotype was comparatively less positive than an out-group’s (e.g. psychology versus nursing majors), in the absence of personal identity cues, and when participants had the option of a sure sum of money (i.e. in essence opting out of the need to trust a stranger). In contrast, when only the recipient was made aware of group membership trust becomes reliant upon group stereotypes. The group with the more positive stereotype was trusted (e.g. one’s university affiliation over another), even over that of the in-group (e.g. nursing over psychology majors). Another reason for in-group favouring behaviours in trust could be attributed to the need to maintain in-group positive distinctiveness, particularly in the presence of social identity threat. It should also be noted that trust in out-group strangers increased when personal cues to identity were revealed.\n\nSome philosophers argue that trust is more than a relationship of reliance. Philosophers such as Annette Baier have made a difference between trust and reliance by saying that trust can be betrayed, whilst reliance can only be disappointed (Baier 1986, 235). Carolyn McLeod explains Baier's argument by giving the following examples: we can rely on our clock to give the time, but we do not feel betrayed when it breaks, thus, we cannot say that we trusted it; we are not trusting when we are suspicious of the other person, because this is in fact an expression of distrust (McLeod 2006). Thus, trust is different from reliance in the sense that a truster accepts the risk of being betrayed.\n\nThe definition of trust as a belief in something or a confident expectation about something leads to eliminate the notion of risk from the definition, because it does not include whether the expectation or belief is favorable or unfavorable. For example, to have an expectation of a friend arriving to dinner late because she has habitually arrived late for the last fifteen years, is a confident expectation (whether or not we agree with her annoying late arrivals.) The trust is not about what we wish for, rather it is in the consistency of the data of our habits. As a result, there is no risk or betrayal because the data now exists as collective knowledge.\n\nTrust in economics is treated as an explanation for a difference between actual human behaviour and the one that can be explained by the individual desire to maximize one's utility. In economic terms, trust can provide an explanation of a difference between Nash equilibrium and the observed equilibrium. Such an approach can be applied to individuals as well as societies.\n\nTrust is also seen as an economic lubricant, reducing the cost of transactions between parties, enabling new forms of cooperation and generally furthering business activities; employment and prosperity. This observation created a significant interest in considering trust as a form of social capital and has led research into closer understanding of the process of creation and distribution of such capital. It has been claimed that higher level of social trust is positively correlated with economic development. Even though the original concept of 'high trust' and 'low trust' societies may not necessarily hold, it has been widely accepted and demonstrated that social trust benefits the economy and that a low level of trust inhibits economic growth.\n\nTheoretical economical modelling demonstrated that the optimum level of trust that a rational economic agent should exhibit in transactions is equal to trustworthiness of the other party. Such a level of trust leads to efficient market. Trusting less lead to the loss of economic opportunities, trusting more leads to unnecessary vulnerabilities and potential exploitation.\n\nEconomics is also interested in quantifying trust, usually in monetary terms. The level of correlation between increase in profit margin or decrease in transactional cost can be used as indicators of economic value of trust.\n\nEconomic 'trust games' are popularly used to empirically quantify trust in relationships under laboratory conditions. There are several games and game-like scenarios related to trust that have been tried, with certain preferences to those that allow to estimate confidence in monetary terms. Games of trust are designed in a way that their Nash equilibrium differ from Pareto optimum so that no player alone can maximise his own utility by altering his selfish strategy without cooperation while cooperating partners can benefit.\n\nThe classical version of the game of trust has been described in as an abstracted investment game, using the scenario of an investor and a broker. Investor can invest a fraction of his money, and broker can return only part of his gains. If both players follow their economical best interest, the investor should never invest and the broker will never be able to re-pay anything. Thus the flow of money flow, its volume and character is attributable entirely to the existence of trust.\n\nThe game can be played as one-off, or as a repetitive one, between the same or different sets of players, to distinguish between a general propensity to trust and trust within particular relationships. Several other variants of this game exist. Reversing rules lead to the game of distrust, pre-declarations can be used to establish intentions of players, while alterations to the distribution of gains can be used to manipulate perception of both players. The game can be also played by several players on the closed market, with or without information about reputation.\n\nOther interesting games are e.g. binary-choice trust games, the gift-exchange game and various other forms of social games. Specifically games based on the Prisoner's Dilemma are popularly used to link trust with economic utility and demonstrate the rationality behind reciprocity.\n\nThe work of Rachel Botsman is also very important about collaboration economy.\n\nThe popularisation of e-commerce opened the discussion of trust in economy to new challenges while at the same time elevating the importance of trust, and desire to understand customer decision to trust. For example, inter-personal relationship between the buyer and the seller has been dis-intermediated by the technology, and had to be improved upon. Alternatively, web sites could be made to convince the buyer to trust the seller, regardless of seller's actual trustworthiness (e.g.) . Reputation-based systems improved on trust assessment by allowing to capture the collective perception of trustworthiness, generating significant interest in various models of reputation.\n\nIn systems, a trusted component has a set of properties which another component can rely on. If A trusts B, this means that a violation in those properties of B might compromise the correct operation of A. Observe that those properties of B trusted by A might not correspond quantitatively or qualitatively to B’s actual properties. This happens when the designer of the overall system does not take the relation into account. In consequence, trust should be placed to the extent of the component’s trustworthiness. The trustworthiness of a component is thus, not surprisingly, defined by how well it secures a set of functional and non-functional properties, deriving from its architecture, construction, and environment, and evaluated as appropriate.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2024827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024827", "title": "Women's Party (Greenland)", "text": "Women's Party (Greenland)\n\nThe Women's Party (\"Arnat Partiiat\") was a feminist political party in Greenland. At the 2002 legislative elections the party won 2.4% of the popular vote and no seats. On November 6, 1999, in response to the still much lower representation of women in politics, a group of women formed the party. Several members ran for the parliamentary election in 2002. The Women's Party was in short of votes. The party was dissolved in the spring of 2008.\n"}
