{"id": "1120550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1120550", "title": "2004 Darfur Humanitarian Ceasefire Agreement", "text": "2004 Darfur Humanitarian Ceasefire Agreement\n\nFollowing the escalation of the Darfur conflict in the Sudan, Chad brokered negotiations in N'Djamena led to the Humanitarian Ceasefire Agreement between the Sudanese government and the two rebel groups, the Sudanese Justice and Equality Movement (JEM) and the Sudan Liberation Movement/Army (SLM/A) on 8 April 2004, other signatories were Chad and the African Union. The ceasefire came into effect on 11 April 2004.\n\nThe National Movement for Reform and Development — a group which splintered from the JEM in April did not participate in the cease-fire talks or the agreement. Janjaweed and rebel attacks have continued since the ceasefire.\n\nThe African Union formed a Ceasefire Commission (CFC) to monitor observance of the ceasefire.\n\n"}
{"id": "40628134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40628134", "title": "Anti-globalization movement", "text": "Anti-globalization movement\n\nThe anti-globalization movement, or counter-globalisation movement, is a social movement critical of economic globalization. The movement is also commonly referred to as the global justice movement, alter-globalization movement, anti-globalist movement, anti-corporate globalization movement, or movement against neoliberal globalization.\n\nParticipants base their criticisms on a number of related ideas. What is shared is that participants oppose large, multinational corporations having unregulated political power, exercised through trade agreements and deregulated financial markets. Specifically, corporations are accused of seeking to maximize profit at the expense of work safety conditions and standards, labour hiring and compensation standards, environmental conservation principles, and the integrity of national legislative authority, independence and sovereignty. , some commentators have characterized changes in the global economy as \"turbo-capitalism\" (Edward Luttwak), \"market fundamentalism\" (George Soros), \"casino capitalism\" (Susan Strange), and as \"McWorld\" (Benjamin Barber).\n\nMany anti-globalization activists do not oppose globalization in general and call for forms of global integration that better provide democratic representation, advancement of human rights, fair trade and sustainable development and therefore feel the term \"anti-globalization\" is misleading.\n\nSupporters believe that by the late 20th century those they characterized as \"ruling elites\" sought to harness the expansion of world markets for their own interests; this combination of the Bretton Woods institutions, states, and multinational corporations has been called \"globalization\" or \"globalization from above.\" In reaction, various social movements emerged to challenge their influence; these movements have been called \"anti-globalization\" or \"globalization from below.\"\n\nPeople opposing globalization believe that international agreements and global financial institutions, such as the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Trade Organization, undermine local decision-making. Corporations that use these institutions to support their own corporate and financial interests, can exercise privileges that individuals and small businesses cannot, including the ability to:\nThe movement aims for an end to the legal status of \"corporate personhood\" and the dissolution of free market fundamentalism and the radical economic privatization measures of the World Bank, the IMF, and the World Trade Organization.\nActivists are especially opposed to the various abuses which they think are perpetuated by globalization and the international institutions that, they say, promote neoliberalism without regard to ethical standards or environmental protection. Common targets include the World Bank (WB), International Monetary Fund (IMF), the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) and the World Trade Organization (WTO) and free trade treaties like the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), Free Trade Area of the Americas (FTAA), the Trans Pacific Trade Agreement (TPPA), the Multilateral Agreement on Investment (MAI) and the General Agreement on Trade in Services (GATS). In light of the economic gap between rich and poor countries, adherents of the movement claim that free trade without measures to protect the environment and the health and wellbeing of workers will merely increase the power of industrialized nations (often termed the \"North\" in opposition to the developing world's \"South\"). Proponents of this line of thought refer to the process as polarization and argue that current neo-liberal economic policies have given wealthier states an advantage over developing nations, enabling their exploitation and leading to a widening of the global wealth gap.\n\nA report by Jean Ziegler, UN Special Rapporteur on the right to food, notes that \"millions of farmers are losing their livelihoods in the developing countries, but small farmers in the northern countries are also suffering\" and concludes that \"the current inequities of the global trading system are being perpetuated rather than resolved under the WTO, given the unequal balance of power between member countries.\" Activists point to the unequal footing and power between developed and developing nations within the WTO and with respect to global trade, most specifically in relation to the protectionist policies towards agriculture enacted in many developed countries. These activists also point out that heavy subsidization of developed nations' agriculture and the aggressive use of export subsidies by some developed nations to make their agricultural products more attractive on the international market are major causes of declines in the agricultural sectors of many developing nations.\nThrough the Internet, a movement began to develop in opposition to the doctrines of neoliberalism which were widely manifested in the 1990s when the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) proposed liberalization of cross-border investment and trade restrictions through its Multilateral Agreement on Investment (MAI). This treaty was prematurely exposed to public scrutiny and subsequently abandoned in November 1998 in the face of strenuous protest and criticism by national and international civil society representatives.\n\nNeoliberal doctrine argued that untrammeled free trade and reduction of public-sector regulation would bring benefits to poor countries and to disadvantaged people in rich countries. Anti-globalization advocates urge that preservation of the natural environment, human rights (especially workplace rights and conditions) and democratic institutions are likely to be placed at undue risk by globalization unless mandatory standards are attached to liberalization. Noam Chomsky stated in 2002 that\n\nBy 2002, many parts of the movement showed wide opposition to the impending invasion of Iraq. Many participants were among those 11 million or more protesters that on the weekend of February 15, 2003, participated in global protests against the imminent Iraq war. Other anti-war demonstrations were organized by the antiglobalization movement: see for example the large demonstration, organized against the impending war in Iraq, which closed the first European Social Forum in November 2002 in Florence, Italy.\n\nAnti-globalization militants worried for a proper functioning of democratic institutions as the leaders of many democratic countries (Spain, Italy, Poland and the United Kingdom) were acting against the wishes of the majorities of their populations in supporting the war. Chomsky asserted that these leaders \"showed their contempt for democracy\". Critics of this type of argument have tended to point out that this is just a standard criticism of representative democracy — a democratically elected government will not always act in the direction of greatest current public support — and that, therefore, there is no inconsistency in the leaders' positions given that these countries are parliamentary democracies.\n\nThe economic and military issues are closely linked in the eyes of many within the movement.\n\nMany participants (see Noam Chomsky's quotes above) consider the term \"anti-globalization\" to be a misnomer. The term suggests that its followers support protectionism and/or nationalism, which is not always the case - in fact, some supporters of anti-globalization are strong opponents of both nationalism and protectionism: for example, the No Border network argues for unrestricted migration and the abolition of all national border controls. S. A. Hamed Hosseini (an Australian sociologist and expert in global social movement studies), argues that the term anti-globalization can be ideal-typically used only to refer to only one ideological vision he detects alongside three other visions (the anti-globalist, the alter-globalist and the alter-globalization). He argues that the three latter ideal-typical visions can be categorized under the title of global justice movement. According to him, while the first two visions (the alter-globalism and the anti-globalism) represent the reconstructed forms of old and new left ideologies, respectively, in the context of current globalization, only the third one has shown the capacity to respond more effectively to the intellectual requirements of today's global complexities. Underlying this vision is a new conception of justice, coined accommodative justice by Hosseini, a new approach towards cosmopolitanism (transversal cosmopolitanism), a new mode of activist knowledge (accommodative consciousness), and a new format of solidarity, interactive solidarity.\n\nSome activists, notably David Graeber, see the movement as opposed instead to neoliberalism or \"corporate globalization\". He argues that the term \"anti-globalization\" is a term coined by the media, and that radical activists are actually more in favor of globalization, in the sense of \"effacement of borders and the free movement of people, possessions and ideas\" than are the IMF or WTO. He also notes that activists use the terms \"globalization movement\" and \"anti-globalization movement\" interchangeably, indicating the confusion of the terminology. The term \"alter-globalization\" has been used to make this distinction clear.\n\nWhile the term \"anti-globalization\" arose from the movement's opposition to free-trade agreements (which have often been considered part of something called \"globalization\"), various participants contend they are opposed to only certain aspects of globalization and instead describe themselves, at least in French-speaking organizations, as \"anti-capitalist\", \"anti-plutocracy,\" or \"anti-corporate.\" \"Le Monde Diplomatique\" 's editor, Ignacio Ramonet's, expression of \"the one-way thought\" (\"pensée unique\") became slang against neoliberal policies and the Washington consensus.\n\nThe term \"anti-globalization\" does not distinguish the international leftist anti-globalization position from a strictly nationalist anti-globalization position. Many nationalist movements, such as the French National Front, Austrian Freedom Party, the Italian Lega Nord, the Greek Golden Dawn or the National Democratic Party of Germany are opposed to globalization, but argue that the alternative to globalization is the protection of the nation-state. Other groups, influenced by the Third Position, are also classifiable as anti-globalization. However, their overall world view is rejected by groups such as Peoples Global Action and anti-fascist groups such as ANTIFA. In response, the nationalist movements against globalization, argue that the leftist anti-globalization position is actually a support to alter-globalization.\n\nSeveral influential critical works have inspired the anti-globalization movement. \"No Logo\", the book by the Canadian journalist Naomi Klein who criticized the production practices of multinational corporations and the omnipresence of brand-driven marketing in popular culture, has become \"manifesto\" of the movement, presenting in a simple way themes more accurately developed in other works. In India some intellectual references of the movement can be found in the works of Vandana Shiva, an ecologist and feminist, who in her book \"Biopiracy\" documents the way that the natural capital of indigenous peoples and ecoregions is converted into forms of intellectual capital, which are then recognized as exclusive commercial property without sharing the private utility thus derived. The writer Arundhati Roy is famous for her anti-nuclear position and her activism against India's massive hydroelectric dam project, sponsored by the World Bank. In France the well-known monthly paper \"Le Monde Diplomatique\" has advocated the antiglobalization cause and an editorial of its director Ignacio Ramonet brought about the foundation of the association ATTAC. Susan George of the Transnational Institute has also been a long-term influence on the movement, as the writer of books since 1986 on hunger, debt, international financial institutions and capitalism. The works of Jean Ziegler, Christopher Chase-Dunn, and Immanuel Wallerstein have detailed underdevelopment and dependence in a world ruled by the capitalist system. Pacifist and anti-imperialist traditions have strongly influenced the movement. Critics of United States foreign policy such as Noam Chomsky, Susan Sontag, and anti-globalist pranksters The Yes Men are widely accepted inside the movement.\n\nAlthough they may not recognize themselves as antiglobalists and are pro-capitalism, some economists who don't share the neoliberal approach of international economic institutions have strongly influenced the movement. Amartya Sen's \"Development as Freedom\" (Nobel Prize in Economics, 1999), argues that third world development must be understood as the expansion of human capability, not simply the increase in national income per capita, and thus requires policies attuned to health and education, not simply GDP. James Tobin's (winner of the Nobel Prize in Economics) proposal for a tax on financial transactions (called, after him, the Tobin tax) has become part of the agenda of the movement. Also, George Soros, Joseph E. Stiglitz (another Economic Sciences Nobel prize winner, formerly of the World Bank, author of Globalization and Its Discontents) and David Korten have made arguments for drastically improving transparency, for debt relief, land reform, and restructuring corporate accountability systems. Korten and Stiglitz's contribution to the movement include involvement in direct actions and street protest.\n\nIn some Roman Catholic countries such as Italy there have been religious influences, especially from missionaries who have spent a long time in the Third World (the most famous being Alex Zanotelli).\n\nInternet sources and free-information websites, such as Indymedia, are a means of diffusion of the movement's ideas. The vast array of material on spiritual movements, anarchism, libertarian socialism and the Green Movement that is now available on the Internet has been perhaps more influential than any printed book.\n\nAlthough over the past years more emphasis has been given to the construction of grassroots alternatives to (capitalist) globalization, the movement's largest and most visible mode of organizing remains mass decentralized campaigns of direct action and civil disobedience. This mode of organizing, sometimes under the banner of the Peoples' Global Action network, tries to tie the many disparate causes together into one global struggle.\n\nIn many ways the process of organizing matters overall can be more important to activists than the avowed goals or achievements of any component of the movement.\n\nAt corporate summits, the stated goal of most demonstrations is to stop the proceedings. Although the demonstrations rarely succeed in more than delaying or inconveniencing the actual summits, this motivates the mobilizations and gives them a visible, short-term purpose. This form of publicity is expensive in police time and the public purse. Rioting has occurred at some protests, for instance in Genoa, Seattle and London - and extensive damage was done to the area, especially targeting corporations, including McDonald's and Starbucks restaurants.\n\nDespite, or perhaps because of, the lack of formal coordinating bodies, the movement manages to successfully organize large protests on a global basis, using information technology to spread information and organize. Protesters organize themselves into \"affinity groups,\" typically non-hierarchical groups of people who live close together and share a common political goal. Affinity groups will then send representatives to planning meetings. However, because these groups can be infiltrated by law enforcement intelligence, important plans of the protests are often not made until the last minute. One common tactic of the protests is to split up based on willingness to break the law. This is designed, with varying success, to protect the risk-averse from the physical and legal dangers posed by confrontations with law enforcement. For example, in Prague during the anti-IMF and World Bank protests in September 2000 demonstrators split into three distinct groups, approaching the conference center from three directions: one engaging in various forms of civil disobedience (the Yellow march), one (the Pink/Silver march) advancing through \"tactical frivolity\" (costume, dance, theatre, music, and artwork), and one (the Blue march) engaging in violent conflicts with the baton-armed police, with the protesters throwing cobblestones lifted from the street.\n\nThese demonstrations come to resemble small societies in themselves. Many protesters take training in first aid and act as medics to other injured protesters. In the US, some organizations like the National Lawyer's Guild and, to a lesser extent, the American Civil Liberties Union, provide legal witnesses in case of law enforcement confrontation. Protesters often claim that major media outlets do not properly report on them; therefore, some of them created the Independent Media Center, a collective of protesters reporting on the actions as they happen.\n\n\nThe Annual Meetings osf the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Bank, that took place in West Berlin in 1988, saw strong protests that can be categorized as a precursor of the anti-globalization movement. One of the main and failed objectives (as it was to be so many times in the future) was to derail the meetings.\n\nA counter summit against G7 was organized in Paris in July 1989. The event was called \"ça suffit comme ça\" (\"that is enough\") and principally aimed at cancelling the debt contracted by southern countries. A demonstration gathered 10,000 people and an important concert was held in la Bastille square with 200 000 people. It was the first anti-G7 event, fourteen years before that of Washington. The main political consequence was that France took position to favor debt cancellation.\n\nThe 50th anniversary of the IMF and the World Bank, which was celebrated in Madrid in October 1994, was the scene of a protest by an ad-hoc coalition of what would later be called anti-globalization movements. Starting from the mid-1990s, Annual Meetings of the IMF and the World Bank Group have become center points for anti-globalization movement protests. They tried to drown the bankers' parties in noise from outside and held other public forms of protest under the motto \"50 Years is Enough\". While Spanish King Juan Carlos was addressing the participants in a huge exhibition hall, two Greenpeace activists climbed to the top and showered the attendants with fake dollar bills carrying the slogan \"No $s for Ozone Layer Destruction\". A number of the demonstrators were sent to the notorious Carabanchel prison.\n\nOne of the first international anti-globalization protests was organized in dozens of cities around the world on June 18, 1999, with those in London and Eugene, Oregon most often noted. The drive was called the Carnival Against Capital, or J18 for short. The day coincided with the 25th G8 Summit in Cologne, Germany. The protest in Eugene turned into a riot where local anarchists drove police out of a small park. One anarchist, Robert Thaxton, was arrested and convicted of throwing a rock at a police officer.\n\nThe second major mobilization of the movement, known as N30, occurred on November 30, 1999, when protesters blocked delegates' entrance to WTO meetings in Seattle, Washington, USA. The protests forced the cancellation of the opening ceremonies and lasted the length of the meeting until December 3. There was a large, permitted march by members of the AFL-CIO, and other unauthorized marches by assorted affinity groups who converged around the Convention Center. The protesters and Seattle riot police clashed in the streets after police fired tear gas at demonstrators who blocked the streets and refused to disperse. Over 600 protesters were arrested and thousands were injured. Three policemen were injured by friendly fire, and one by a thrown rock. Some protesters destroyed the windows of storefronts of businesses owned or franchised by targeted corporations such as a large Nike shop and many Starbucks windows. The mayor put the city under the municipal equivalent of martial law and declared a curfew. , the city of Seattle had paid over $200,000 in settlements of lawsuits filed against the Seattle Police Department for assault and wrongful arrest, with a class action lawsuit still pending.\n\nOn April 2000, around 10,000 to 15,000 protesters demonstrated at the IMF, and World Bank meeting (official numbers are not tallied). International Forum on Globalization (IFG) held training at Foundry United Methodist Church. Police raided the Convergence Center, which was the staging warehouse and activists' meeting hall on Florida Avenue on April 15. The day before the larger protest scheduled on April 16, a smaller group of protesters demonstration against the Prison-Industrial Complex in the District of Columbia. Mass arrests were conducted; 678 people were arrested on April 15. Three-time Pulitzer Prize winning, \"Washington Post\" photographer Carol Guzy was detained by police and arrested on April 15, and two journalists for the Associated Press also reported being struck by police with batons. On April 16 and 17 the demonstrations and street actions around the IMF that followed, the number of those arrested grew to 1,300 people. A class action lawsuit was filed for false arrest.<nowiki> In June 2010, the class action suit for the April 15th events called '</nowiki>\"Becker, et al. v. District of Columbia, et al\".' were settled, with $13.7 million damages awarded.\n\nIn September 2002, estimated number of 1,500 to 2,000 people gathered to demonstrate against the Annual Meetings of IMF and World Bank in the streets of Washington D.C. Protesting groups included the Anti-Capitalist Convergence, the Mobilization for Global Justice. 649 people were reported arrested, five were charged with destruction of property, while the others were charged with parading without a permit, or failing to obey police orders to disperse. At least 17 reporters were in the round-up. Protestors sued in Federal Court about the arrests. The D.C. Attorney General had outside counsel investigate apparent destruction of evidence, and forensic investigations continue, and the testimony of the Chief of Police. In 2009, the city agreed to pay $8.25 million to almost 400 protesters and bystanders to end a class-action lawsuit over kettling and mass arrests in Pershing Park during 2002 World Bank protests\n\nAlthough local police were surprised by the size of N30, law enforcement agencies have since reacted worldwide to prevent the disruption of future events by a variety of tactics, including sheer weight of numbers, infiltrating the groups to determine their plans, and preparations for the use of force to remove protesters.\n\nAt the site of some of the protests, police have used tear gas, pepper spray, concussion grenades, rubber and wooden bullets, night sticks, water cannons, dogs, and horses to repel the protesters. After the November 2000 G20 protest in Montreal, at which many protesters were beaten, trampled, and arrested in what was intended to be a festive protest, the tactic of dividing protests into \"green\" (permitted), \"yellow\" (not officially permitted but with little confrontation and low risk of arrest), and \"red\" (involving direct confrontation) zones was introduced.\n\nIn Quebec City, municipal officials built a 3-metre (10 ft) high wall around the portion of the city where the Summit of the Americas was being held, which only residents, delegates to the summit, and certain accredited journalists were allowed to pass through.\n\nOn June 15 and 16, 2001, a strong demonstration took place in Göteborg during the meeting of the European Council in the Swedish town. Clashes between police and protesters were exacerbated by the numerous vandalism of the extreme fringes of the demonstrators, the so-called black-blocs. Images of devastation bounced through the mass media, putting a negative shadow on the movement, and increasing a sense of fear through common people.\n\nThe Genoa Group of Eight Summit protest from July 18 to July 22, 2001 was one of the bloodiest protests in Western Europe's recent history, as evidenced by the wounding of hundreds of policemen and civilians forced to lock themselves inside of their homes and the death of a young Genoese anarchist named Carlo Giuliani—who was shot while trying to throw a fire extinguisher on a policeman—during two days of violence and rioting by groups supported by the nonchalance of more consistent and peaceful masses of protesters, and the hospitalization of several of those peaceful demonstrators just mentioned. Police have subsequently been accused of brutality, torture and interference with the non-violent protests as a collateral damage provoked by the clash between the law enforcement ranks themselves and the more violent and brutal fringes of protesters, who repeatedly hid themselves amongst peaceful protesters of all ages and backgrounds. Several hundred peaceful demonstrators, rioters, and police were injured and hundreds were arrested during the days surrounding the G8 meeting; most of those arrested have been charged with some form of \"criminal association\" under Italy's anti-mafia and anti-terrorist laws.\n\nThe first World Social Forum (WSF) in 2001 was an initiative of , Chico Whitaker, and Bernard Cassen. It was supported by the city of Porto Alegre (where it took place) and the Brazilian Worker's Party. The motivation was to constitute a counter-event to the World Economic Forum held in Davos at the same time. The slogan of the WSF is \"Another World Is Possible\". An \"International Council\" (IC) was set up to discuss and decide major issues regarding the WSF, while the local organizing committee in the host city is responsible for the practical preparations of the event. In June 2001, the IC adopted the World Social Forum Charter of Principles, which provides a framework for international, national, and local Social Forums worldwide.\n\nThe WSF became a periodic meeting: in 2002 and 2003 it was held again in Porto Alegre and became a rallying point for worldwide protest against the American invasion of Iraq. In 2004 it was moved to Mumbai, India), to make it more accessible to the populations of Asia and Africa. This Forum had 75,000 delegates. In 2006 it was held in three cities: Caracas, Venezuela, Bamako, Mali, and Karachi, Pakistan. In 2007, the Forum was hosted in Nairobi, Kenya, in 2009 it was in Belém, Brazil, and in 2011 it was in Dakar, Senegal. In 2012, the WSF returned to Porto Alegre.\n\nThe idea of creating a meeting place for organizations and individuals opposed to Neoliberalism was soon replicated elsewhere. The first European Social Forum (ESF) was held in November 2002 in Florence. The slogan was \"Against the war, against racism and against neo-liberalism\". It saw the participation of 60,000 delegates and ended with a huge demonstration against the war (1,000,000 people according to the organizers). The following ESFs took place in Paris (2003), London (2004), Athens (2006), Malmö (2008), and the latest ESF in Istanbul (2010).\n\nIn many countries Social Forums of national and local scope were also held.\n\nRecently there has been some discussion behind the movement about the role of the social forums. Some see them as a \"popular university\", an occasion to make many people aware of the problems of globalization. Others would prefer that delegates concentrate their efforts on the coordination and organization of the movement and on the planning of new campaigns. However it has often been argued that in the dominated countries (most of the world) the WSF is little more than an 'NGO fair' driven by Northern NGOs and donors most of which are hostile to popular movements of the poor.\n\nAfter the Second World War, North Korea followed a policy of Anti-Globalization. However, in recent decades have shown a distinctive rise in globalization movements in North Korea. Under the Democratic Peoples Republic of Korea, Pyongyang(2002), introduced a number of reforms in areas such as technology and trade. The reform that had the most significance to North Korea was trade. North Korea saw a change in trading partnerships. They now not only traded with themselves but also with South Korea and China. North Korea introduced these reforms because they were lacking in areas of technology and trade and they realized that they could not maintain themselves as a society without help from other. But even with these new reforms North Korea still remains the most isolated society in the world.\n\nThe anti-globalization movement has been criticized by politicians, members of conservative think tanks, and many mainstream economists.\n\nCritics assert that the empirical evidence does not support the views of the anti-globalization movement. These critics point to statistical trends which are interpreted to be results of globalization, capitalism, and the economic growth they encourage.\n\nMembers of the anti-globalization movement argue that positive data from countries which largely ignored neoliberal prescriptions, notably China, discredits the evidence that pro-globalists present. For example, concerning the parameter of per capita income growth, development economist Ha-Joon Chang writes that considering the record of the last two decades the argument for continuing neo-liberal policy prescriptions are \"simply untenable.\" Noting that \"It depends on the data we use, but roughly speaking, per capita income in developing countries grew at 3% per year between 1960 and 1980, but has grown only at about 1.5% between 1980 and 2000. And even this 1.5% will be reduced to 1%, if we take out India and China, which have not pursued liberal trade and industrial policies recommended by the developed countries.\" Jagdish Bhagwati argues that reforms that opened up the economies of China and India contributed to their higher growth in 1980s and 1990s. From 1980 to 2000 their GDP grew at average rate of 10 and 6 percent respectively. This was accompanied by reduction of poverty from 28 percent in 1978 to 9 percent in 1998 in China, and from 51 percent in 1978 to 26 percent in 2000 in India. Likewise, Joseph E. Stiglitz, speaking not only on China but East Asia in general, comments \"The countries that have managed globalization...such as those in East Asia, have, by and large, ensured that they reaped huge benefits...\" According to The Heritage Foundation, development in China was anticipated by Milton Friedman, who predicted that even a small progress towards economic liberalization would produce dramatic and positive effects. China's economy had grown together with its economic freedom. Critics of corporate-led globalization have expressed concern about the methodology used in arriving at the World Bank's statistics and argue that more detailed variables measuring poverty should be studied. According to the Center for Economic and Policy Research (CEPR), the period from 1980–2005 has seen diminished progress in terms of economic growth, life expectancy, infant and child mortality, and to a lesser extent education.\n\nOne of the most common criticisms of the movement, which does not necessarily come from its opponents, is simply that the anti-globalization movement lacks coherent goals, and that the views of different protesters are often in opposition to each other. Many members of the movement are also aware of this, and argue that, as long as they have a common opponent, they should march together - even if they don't share exactly the same political vision. Writers Michael Hardt & Antonio Negri have together in their books (\"Empire\" &\" Multitude\") expanded on this idea of a disunified multitude: humans coming together for shared causes, but lacking the complete sameness of the notion of 'the people'.\n\nOne argument often made by the opponents of the anti-globalization movement (especially by \"The Economist\"), is that one of the major causes of poverty amongst third-world farmers are the trade barriers put up by rich nations and poor nations alike. The WTO is an organization set up to work towards removing those trade barriers. Therefore, it is argued, people really concerned about the plight of the third world should actually be encouraging free trade, rather than attempting to fight it. Specifically, commodities such as sugar are heavily distorted by subsidies on behalf of powerful economies (the United States, Europe, and Japan), who have a disproportionate influence in the WTO. As a result, producers in these countries often receive 2-3x the world market price. As Amani Elobeid and John Beghin note, the world price might decline by as much as 48% (by 2011 / 2012 baselines) were these distortions to be removed\n\nMany supporters of globalization think that policies different from those of today should be pursued, although not necessarily those advocated by the anti-globalization movement. For example, some see the World Bank and the IMF as corrupt bureaucracies which have given repeated loans to dictators who never do any reforms. Some, like Hernando De Soto, argue that much of the poverty in the Third World countries is caused by the lack of Western systems of laws and well-defined and universally recognized property rights. De Soto argues that because of the legal barriers poor people in those countries can not utilize their assets to produce more wealth.\n\nCritics have asserted that people from poor (the Developing countries) have been relatively accepting and supportive of globalization while the strongest opposition to globalization has come from wealthy \"First World\" activists, unions and NGOs. Alan Shipman, author of \"The Globalization Myth\" accuses the anti-globalization movement of \"defusing the Western class war by shifting alienation and exploitation to developing-country sweatshops.\" He later goes on to claim that the anti-globalization movement has failed to attract widespread support from poor and working people from the developing nations, and that its \"strongest and most uncomprehending critics had always been the workers whose liberation from employment they were trying to secure.\"\n\nThese critics assert that people from the Third World see the anti-globalization movement as a threat to their jobs, wages, consuming options and livelihoods, and that a cessation or reversal of globalization would result in many people in poor countries being left in greater poverty. Jesús F. Reyes Heroles the former Mexican Ambassador to the US, stated that \"in a poor country like ours, the alternative to low-paid jobs isn't well-paid ones, it's no jobs at all.\"\n\nEgypt's Ambassador to the UN has also stated \"The question is why all of a sudden, when third world labor has proved to be competitive, why do industrial countries start feeling concerned about our workers? When all of a sudden there is a concern about the welfare of our workers, it is suspicious.\"\n\nOn the other hand, there have been notable protests against certain globalization policies by workers in developing nations as in the cause of Indian farmers protesting against patenting seeds.\n\nIn the last few years, many developing countries (esp. in Latin America and Caribbean) created alter-globalization organizations as economic blocs Mercosur and Unasur, political community CELAC or Bank of the South which are supporting development of low income countries without involvement from IMF or World Bank.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40519627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40519627", "title": "Asia-Pacific Network for Global Change Research", "text": "Asia-Pacific Network for Global Change Research\n\nThe Asia-Pacific Network for Global Change Research (APN) is an intergovernmental network that promotes policy-oriented research and capacity-building activities related to global change in the region. APN receives financial contribution from the governments of the United States, Japan, Republic of Korea and New Zealand, with in-kind contribution from all it 22 member countries. The APN Secretariat is based in Kobe, Japan, hosted by the Hyogo Prefectural Government.\n\nThe history of APN dates back to the 1990 White House Conference on Science and Economics Research Related to Global Change, 17–18 April 1990, at which then US President George Bush invited countries of the world to join the United States in creating regional networks for North-South scientific cooperation at the intergovernmental level to deal with global environmental change research. Later in 1992, President Bush and then Prime Minister of Japan Kiichi Miyazawa signed the 1992 US-Japan Global Partnership Agreement, which, among other things, reaffirmed and strengthened Japan-US commitment to global change research.\n\nDiscussions along these lines ultimately resulted in the establishment of three global change research networks: ENRICH for Europe and Africa, APN for Asia and the Pacific, and IAI for the Americas.\n\nAPN was formally launched in 1996 at its first intergovernmental meeting held at Chiang Mai, Thailand. In 1997, a competitive process was in place, open to funding applications for scientific research projects relating to global environmental change.\n\nStarting from 12 countries in 1996, APN membership has grown to 22 as of April 2013. In addition to the 22 full members, institutions and individuals from a number of “approved countries” are eligible for APN funding.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17668086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17668086", "title": "Band of fluctuation", "text": "Band of fluctuation\n\nThe band of fluctuation is the range within which the market value of a national currency is permitted to fluctuate by international agreements, or by unilateral decision by the central bank.\n"}
{"id": "13409990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13409990", "title": "Bascharage communal council", "text": "Bascharage communal council\n\nBascharage communal council () is the local council for the commune of Bascharage, in south-western Luxembourg.\n\nIt consists of thirteen members, elected every six years by proportional representation. The last elections were held on 9 October 2005, and resulted in a draw between the Christian Social People's Party (CSV) and the Luxembourg Socialist Workers' Party (LSAP). In the \"collège échevinal\", the CSV forms a coalition with The Greens' sole member, under the leadership of CSV mayor Jeannot Halsdorf.\n"}
{"id": "11909795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11909795", "title": "Brest trials", "text": "Brest trials\n\nThe Brest trials () were among the most famous trials conducted under the Second Polish Republic. Lasting from October 26, 1931 to January 13, 1932, they were held at the Warsaw Regional Court where leaders of the \"Centrolew\", a \"Center-Left\" anti-Sanation-government political-opposition movement, were tried.\n\nThe Polish Sanation government had invalidated the May 1930 election results by disbanding the parliament in August and with increasing pressure on the opposition started a new campaign, the new elections being scheduled for November. Using anti-government demonstrations as a pretext, 20 members of the opposition, including most of the leaders of the \"Centrolew\" alliance (from Polish Socialist Party, Polish People's Party \"Piast\" and Polish People's Party \"Wyzwolenie\") were arrested in September without a warrant, only strictly on the order of Józef Piłsudski and the then Minister of Internal Security, Felicjan Sławoj Składkowski, accusing them of plotting an anti-government coup. The opposition members (who included the former prime minister Wincenty Witos, and Wojciech Korfanty) were imprisoned in the Brest Fortress, where their trial took place (thus the popular name for the election: the 'Brest election'). A number of less known activists were also arrested throughout the country. They were released after the end of the election in the same month. The Brest trial ended in January 1932, with 10 accused receiving sentences up to three years of imprisonment; the appeals of 1933 confirmed the sentences. The government however gave the accused the choice of emigrating: five of them did so, the other five stayed on in Poland to serve the prison term instead.\n"}
{"id": "25584652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25584652", "title": "Carlo Carraro", "text": "Carlo Carraro\n\nCarlo Carraro (born May 17, 1957, in Italy) is the Chancellor of the University of Venice for the three-year period 2009-2012, with a two-year extension of his mandate in accordance to the Gelmini University Law bringing it up to summer 2014. He is also professor of Environmental Economics at the same University. He is Director of the Sustainable Development Programme of the Fondazione Eni Enrico Mattei and Director of the Climate Impacts and Policy Division of the Euro-Mediterranean Center for Climate Change (CMCC). In 2008, Carlo Carraro was elected Vice-Chair of the Working Group III and Member of the Bureau of the Nobel Laureate Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC).\n\nCarlo Carraro holds a Laurea degree in Economics from the University of Venice and a Ph.D. in Economics from Princeton University (USA).\n\nProfessor Carraro studies in the field of environmental economics, specifically, researching the evaluation of climate change mitigation and adaptation policy.\nHe is one of the authors of the Third Assessment Report of the IPCC and he collaborated with the Economic and Social Research Institute (ESRI), Cabinet Office, Government of Japan, with the OECD and with World Bank.\n\nPast academic positions include teaching at the University of Paris 1 Pantheon-Sorbonne, LUISS in Rome, University of Udine, University of Aix-en-Provence, University of Nice, University of Paris X, and at the Clemson University MBA School. He has been Vice-Provost for Research Management and Policy at Ca’ Foscari University (2000–2006) and chairman of the Department of Economics (2005–2008).\n\nCarlo Carraro is research fellow of the Center for Economic and Policy Research (CEPR), London,UK and Center for Economic Studies (CESifo), Munich, Germany and associate Research Fellow, Center of Economic Policy Studies (CEPS), Brussels, Belgium.\n\nProfessor Carraro is member of the International Advisory Board of the Harvard Environmental Economics Program (HEEP) and of the European Research Council Advanced Grants Evaluation Panel. He is also member of the Scientific Committee of the Research Network on Sustainable Development (R2D2), Paris; of the Istituto di Economia e Politica dell'Energia e dell'Ambiente (IEFE), Milan; of the ENI award for Research; of the Kyoto Project of the Fondazione Lombardia Ambiente, Milan. In 2007, he was elected correspondent Resident Member of the Academy “Istituto Veneto di Scienze, Lettere e Arti” (IVSLA) in Venice.\n\nHe is member of the Advisory Board of the Ifo Institute for Economic Research at the University of Munich, Germany, of the BP Chair on Sustainable Development, Pontifical University of Comillas, Madrid, Spain and of the Centre for Applied Macroeconomic Analysis, Canberra, Australia. He is member of the Executive Board of VEnice GAteway for Science and Technologies (VEGA), Venice.\nHe is also member of the Steering Committee of the Ca’ Foscari - Harvard Summer School (CFHSS), the International Energy Workshop (IEW), and the Coalition Theory Network (CTN).\nHe was the chair of the organising committee of the Annual Conference of the European Association of Environmental and Resource Economists, Venice, 17–20 April 1990 and of the First World Congress of Environmental and Resource Economists, Venice, 25–27 June 1998.\n\nProfessor Carraro is member of the Editorial Board of the following journals: Review of Environmental Economics and Policy (Oxford University Press), Environmental Modelling and Assessment (Springer Science), Energy Economics (Elsevier), Research in Economics (Elsevier), Integrated Assessment (Springer Science), International Environmental Agreements (Springer Science), International Yearbook of Environmental and Resource Economics (Edward Elgar), Economics Bulletin (Vanderbilt University), E-conomics (Kiel Institute), Equilibri (Il Mulino), Strategic Behavior and the Environment (Nowpublishers).\nHe is also editor of the FEEM Series on the Economic of Sustainable Development and Co-Editor of the ESRI Series on Environmental Policy with Edgar Elgar.\n\nProfessor Carraro’s research interests cover the following fields: coalition and network formation, analysis of international economic agreements, the link between trade and the environment, development of advanced integrated climate economy models, empirical modelling of technological change, and assessment of the costs and benefits of greenhouse gases stabilization policies.\n\nProfessor Carraro has written more than 200 papers and 30 books on the analysis of monetary and fiscal problems in open economies, monetary policy coordination in Europe, international negotiations and the formation of international economic coalitions, the effects of fiscal policies on oligopolistic markets, the econometric modelling of integrated economies, the econometric valuation of environmental policies to control global warming and further issues related to climate change policies, the dynamics of international environmental agreements, international locations industry and trade flows, global governance, coalition theory and research policies.\n\nIn 2013 Professor Carraro was awarded the decoration of Grand Officer in the Order of Merit of the Italian Republic.\n\nIn the course of his tenure as Chancellor of Ca Foscari University in Venice, some of his initiatives have been strongly contested by students, faculty and residents.\n\nChancellor Carraro's decision to invite for the inauguration of 2010-2011 Paolo Scaroni, the managing director of ENI s.p.a, and recipient of a one-year four months suspended sentence for corruption during \"tangentopoli\" occasioned strong protests.\n\nHis decision to invite Alessandro Profumo, former managing director of Italian bank Unicredit on 23 November 2011, barely a month after the Milan procurators had announced the formulation of charges against Profumo for tax fraud on 27 October 2011, brought renewed protests.\n\nHis decision to swap three buildings owned by Venice university, two of which are grade-listed sixteenth century palaces, with a 1957 office block in 2013 also sparked strong dissent and protest.\n\nOne of the palaces of the proposed swap is Ca Cappello, the sixteenth century palazzo on the grand Canal that was famously the home of English archeologist and Niniveh discoverer Austen Henry Layard and his wife Lady Enid Layard.\nTogether with Ca Cappello the swap would also see the alienation of Ca Bembo and Palazzo Cosulich.\n\nThe language department have in particular objected to the lack of adequate spaces and the lack of transparency over the operation, which was undertaken without their knowledge and participation. A student demonstration entered the building while an administrative meeting on the building swap was in session, with considerable controversy ensuing later over whether the chancellor pushed one of the demonstrators or was pushed by one. In an unprecedented move, 115 members of faculty petitioned the chancellor to halt the transfer of property and expressed sympathy with the student protesters. The chancellor's decision to request the police to sue the students for interruption of public service brought even stronger condemnation, and 138 members of faculty expressed solidarity with the students being sued. Italian investigative weekly L'Espresso has recently noted the problems over the swap, and the apparent mismatch between estimates, and reconstructed the affair from the beginning.\n\n"}
{"id": "650526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=650526", "title": "Charles Theodore, Elector of Bavaria", "text": "Charles Theodore, Elector of Bavaria\n\nCharles Theodore (; 11 December 1724 – 16 February 1799) reigned as Prince-elector and Count Palatine from 1742, as Duke of Jülich and Berg from 1742 and also as prince-elector and Duke of Bavaria from 1777 to his death. He was a member of the House of Palatinate-Sulzbach, a branch of the House of Wittelsbach.\n\nCharles Theodore was of the Wittelsbach house Palatinate-Sulzbach. His father was Johann Christian, who later became Count Palatine of Sulzbach. His mother was Marie-Anne-Henriette-Leopoldine de La Tour d'Auvergne, Margravine of Bergen op Zoom, a grandniece of Henri de la Tour d'Auvergne, Vicomte de Turenne. Charles Theodore was born in Drogenbos near Brussels and educated in Mannheim.\n\nCharles Theodore was the Margrave of Bergen op Zoom from 1728 onwards. He then succeeded his father as Count Palatine of Sulzbach in 1733 and inherited the Electoral Palatinate and the duchies of Jülich and Berg in 1742, with the death of Charles III Philip, Elector Palatine. To strengthen the union of all lines of the Wittelsbach dynasty Charles III Philip had organised a wedding on 17 January 1742 when his granddaughter Elizabeth Augusta was married to Charles Theodore and her sister Maria Anna to the Bavarian prince Clement.\n\nAs reigning Prince Elector Palatine, Charles Theodore won the hearts of his subjects by founding an academy of science, stocking up the museums' collections and supporting the arts. When Maximilian III Joseph of Bavaria died in 1777, Charles Theodore became also Elector and Duke of Bavaria and moved to Munich. \nCharles Theodore did not immediately take up his new title. He had several mistresses and many illegitimate children. However, these people could inherit neither the Electorate of Bavaria nor that of the Palatine; Charles Theodore needed territory that he could bequeath to his illegitimate children. Charles Theodore also dreamed of resurrecting the Burgundian Empire of the Middle Ages.\n\nOn 3 January 1778, shortly after the death of Max Joseph, Charles Theodore signed an agreement with Emperor Joseph II to exchange southern Bavaria for part of the Austrian Netherlands.\n\nThe plan was strongly opposed by Maria Anna Sophia of Saxony, the widow of Max Joseph, and Charles Theodore's cousin Charles II August, Duke of Zweibrücken, the head of the House of Palatinate-Birkenfeld and next heir of Bavaria and the Palatinate. They were supported by Frederick II of Prussia, and most of the German minor states.\n\nThe ensuing diplomatic crisis led to the War of the Bavarian Succession, which was ended by the Peace of Teschen (1779). Charles Theodore accepted the Bavarian succession, but agreed that his illegitimate descendants could not inherit Bavaria. Austria acquired the Innviertel, a part of Bavaria in the basin of the Inn river.\n\nCharles Theodore had only one son with his wife, Countess Elizabeth Augusta of Sulzbach, who died a day after birth. His wife died in 1794. In 1795, he married Maria Leopoldine of Austria-Este, Joseph's niece, but they had no children. A second proposal to exchange Bavaria for the Austrian Netherlands in 1784 also failed as Frederick II of Prussia initiated the Fürstenbund.\n\nWhen Charles Theodore died, Bavaria and the Electorate passed to his cousin, Max Joseph, Duke of Zweibrücken, the younger brother of Charles August, who had died in 1795.\n\nIn 1989, Marvin E. Thomas in \" Karl Theodor and the Bavarian Succession, 1777–1778\" argued that in fact Charles Theodore wanted to maintain possession of his new territory, as is shown in his diplomatic correspondence. Thomas is the only scholar to produce such an analysis. It is more widely understood that Charles Theodore continued the despotic and expensive habits he had developed as Elector Palatine.\n\nCharles Theodore never became popular as a ruler in Bavaria according to his critic Lorenz von Westenrieder. He attempted, without success to exchange the ducal lands of Bavaria, for the Austrian Netherlands and a royal crown, and he never managed to control the mounting social tensions in Bavaria. After a dispute with Munich's city council, he even moved the electoral residence in 1788 to Mannheim but returned only one year later.\n\nIn 1785, he appointed the American Loyalist exile Benjamin Thompson as his aide-de-camp and chamberlain. Over the next 11 years, Thompson reformed the army and many aspects of the state, rising to high ministerial rank with Charles Theodore's backing, and becoming Count von Rumford.\n\nCharles Theodore is also known for disbanding Adam Weishaupt's order of the \"Illuminati\" in 1785.\n\nIn 1794, the armies of revolutionary France occupied the Duchy of Jülich, in 1795 they invaded the Palatinate, and in 1796 marched towards Bavaria. Charles Theodore begged Francis II for help that would have made Bavaria a puppet state of Austria. When he died of a stroke in Munich in 1799, the population in Munich celebrated for several days. He is buried in the crypt of the Theatinerkirche in Munich.\n\nDespite the mutual dislike and distrust between the Duke and his Bavarian subjects, Charles Theodore left a distinctive mark on the city of Munich: it was during his reign that the \"English Garden\", Munich's largest park, was created, and the city's old fortifications were dismantled to make place for a modern, expanding city. One of Munich's major squares, \"Karlsplatz\", is named after Charles Theodore. Munich natives, however, seldom use that name, calling the square instead \"Stachus\", after the pub \"Beim Stachus\" that was located there until construction work for Karlsplatz began, mainly because Charles Theodore, as noted above, never enjoyed the popularity in Bavaria that he enjoyed in the Palatinate.\nCharles Theodore was more interested in arts and philosophy than in politics. Historian Thomas Carlyle referred to him as a \"poor idle creature, of purely egoistical, ornamental, dilettante nature; sunk in theatricals, bastard children and the like; much praised by Voltaire, who sometimes used to visit him; and Collini, to whom he [Charles Theodore] is a kind master.\"\n\nThe French foreign minister, Charles Gravier, comte de Vergennes, knew him and described his foibles even more succinctly:\nIn the course of his career, Charles Theodore acquired a celebrated secretary when the Florentine noble, Cosimo Alessandro Collini (1727–1806), who had been Voltaire's secretary, accepted his patronage and remained in the Palatine. Although Charles Theodore certainly wished to acquire more territory, he had only natural sons, thus he preferred territory that he could dispose of through his testament, rather than territory encumbered by a legal entailment that could only pass to a legitimate son.\n\nCharles Theodore was a great lover of the arts, including drama and especially music. His Mannheim court orchestra was considered one of the finest in its time. The Mannheim School (including composer Christian Cannabich and conductor Johann Stamitz) did groundbreaking work that the celebrated Wiener Klassik would later draw upon. Mozart applied for a position with the Mannheim orchestra in 1777, but was turned down, as the court was about to move to Munich. In 1780, Charles Theodore commissioned \"Idomeneo\" from the composer. Mozart quotes him as saying \"No music has ever made such an impression on me. It is magnificent.\"\n\nIn keeping with the customs of the time, an Italian opera company as well as a troupe of French actors were employed at Mannheim, each performing in their respective tongues. Later, the \"Nationaltheater\" (national theatre) was established, one of the first theatres in Germany to exclusively showcase plays in the native tongue (most notably, the first staging of Schiller's \"Die Räuber\" in 1782).\n\nIn the visual arts, a massive collection of plaster casts taken from celebrated antique works was assembled at Mannheim. The preexisting Düsseldorf gallery, including many works by Rubens, was first transferred to Mannheim, then to Munich, where it was later incorporated in the Alte Pinakothek. While none of the Mannheim painters are particularly notable today (with the possible exception of Kobell, primarily a master of landscapes), the elector had several highly talented sculptors at his disposal, among them Verschaffelt, Simon Peter Lamine and Konrad Linck. Linck also distinguished himself as a designer of porcelain figurines at Frankenthal.\n\nCharles Theodore’s chief architect Nicolas de Pigage was charged to complete the Mannheim Palace, design the Schlosstheater and the gardens at Schwetzingen Palace ( including numerous pavilions, among them several artificial \"Roman\" ruins and a \"mosque\") as well as Benrath palace. While these works are in a pure contemporary French style (marked by the transition from late Baroque to early classicism), some of the other architects employed by Charles Theodore were proponents of a more Italianate style. This mixture of influences is, in fact, typical of many German courts of the period. Charles Theodore was also responsible for the construction of the Old Bridge in Heidelberg, which bears his name as the \"Karl-Theodor-Brücke\".\n\nCharles Theodore liked to style himself as a prince of peace, in contrast to other princes like his chief political opponent, the great warrior Frederick II of Prussia. Allegorically, Minerva, the Roman goddess of wisdom and protectress of the arts, is often depicted as a stand-in for the elector himself. This self-view is best summed up in the inscription of a small monument at Schwetzingen:\n\n\"“A field of war and death of Romans and Germans has been discovered, through the unearthing of weapons, urns and bones, in the year 1765. – To the arts of peace, which are the sole joys of his life, the elector Charles Theodore has dedicated this spot, excavated to the height of seven feet, and had this monument erected in 1768.”\"\nOn 17 January 1742, in Mannheim, he married Elisabeth Auguste, daughter of Count Palatine Joseph Charles of Sulzbach and his consort Countess Palatine Elizabeth Augusta Sophie of Neuburg. There was one child of this marriage who died in infancy, Francis Louis Joseph (28 June 1762 – 29 June 1762).\n\nOn 15 February 1795, in Innsbruck, he married Archduchess Maria Leopoldine of Austria-Este. There were no children of this marriage.\n\nFrom his liaison with the actress Françoise Després-Verneuil, later Countess von Parkstein (died 1765): \n\nFrom his liaison with Maria Josefa Seyfert, Countess von Heydeck (1748 1771):\nFrom his liaison with Maria Anna, Gräfin zu Leiningen, widow of Franz Friedrich, Graf von Sayn-Wittgenstein-Hohenstein-Vallendar:\n\n"}
{"id": "1101439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1101439", "title": "Clann na Talmhan", "text": "Clann na Talmhan\n\nClann na Talmhan (, \"Family/Children of the land\"; formally known as the \"National Agricultural Party\") was an Irish agrarian political party active between 1939 and 1965.\n\nClann na Talmhan was founded on 29 June 1939 in Athenry, County Galway, in the wake of the breakdown of unification talks between the Irish Farmers Federation (IFF) and representatives of farmers in Connacht on the rate-paying issue. While the IFF supported full derating, the western view was that the largest farmers should not be relieved of all their rate-paying obligations. Were this to happen, the western opinion was that indirect taxation would inevitably increase, and small farmers and workers would find themselves appreciably worse-off.\n\nThe party was led initially by Galway farmer Michael Donnellan. Its foundation represented a revival of agrarian politics in Ireland; from 1922 to 1933 a series of parties had represented farming interests, namely the Farmers' Party and the National Centre Party. However, these groups mostly attracted large farmers in the east. In contrast, Clann na Talmhan appealed explicitly to the more numerous small farmers of the west of Ireland. The party's objectives included the promotion of the interests of small farmers, government support for land reclamation, lowering of taxes on farmland, a more progressive system of land rates that would help small farmers, and more intensive afforestation. During the 1940s it began to adopt social democratic policies. It supported free secondary education and subsidised university education, as well as state investment in a public healthcare system.\n\nIn contrast to the earlier Farmers' Party, Clann na Talmhan emphasised grass-roots campaigning and political agitation. It also developed an efficient electoral machine, largely owing to the advice and skills it gained from former members of Fianna Fáil. Although the party was hindered to a degree by wartime restrictions on public meetings and the press, it did have five years to prepare for its first election. Clann na Talmhan first entered national politics when it contested the 1943 general election. On that occasion, the party won ten seats. This was reduced to nine at the 1944 general election. Donnellan resigned as leader following the election and was replaced by Joseph Blowick, another western farmer.\n\nThe party became a prominent participant in the first inter-party government (1948–1951), with Blowick serving as Minister for Lands and Donnellan becoming a Parliamentary Secretary. Clann na Talmhan also went on to become a component of the second inter-party government, with Blowick and Donnellan reprising their ministerial roles. However, this period saw a retrenchment rather than expansion of the party, which did not expand its support beyond western and southern small farmers. Like its spiritual predecessors, Clann na Talmhan could not unite small and large farmers in one party, and this restricted its electoral appeal.\n\nThe party began to lose its position after its spells in government. A lack of improvement in the economy during this period led to disillusionment with Clann na Talmhan, and people again began to vote for Fianna Fáil and Fine Gael rather than small parties. During the 1950s many activists had departed, and the party became little more than a collection of personal electoral machines. By 1961, Donnellan and Blowick were the only party TDs remaining, and the party ceased to exist as an organisation independent of those men. When Donnellan died in 1964 his son John Donnellan was elected in his place, but for Fine Gael rather than his father's party. Blowick decided not to contest the 1965 general election, and Clann na Talmhan was formally wound up.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6221021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6221021", "title": "Community Courts of Eritrea", "text": "Community Courts of Eritrea\n\nThe Community Courts of Eritrea are the foundation of the judicial system in Eritrea. The courts typically hear cases regarding minor infractions, typically involving sums of less than approximately $7,300 (100 thousand nakfa).\n\nIndividual cases are heard by an individual magistrate. Defense counsels are permitted to present cases but are typically appointed by the court because defendants are rarely able to meet the cost of private representation.\n\nCommunity magistrates are elected from the communities which they will serve. These courts are supervised by the Ministry of Justice. The community courts tend to promote out-of-court settlements and have a small (2.9%) appeal rate.\n"}
{"id": "291262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291262", "title": "Concerned Women for America", "text": "Concerned Women for America\n\nConcerned Women for America (CWA) is a socially conservative Christian non-profit women's activist group in the United States. Headquartered in Washington D.C., the CWA is involved in social and political movements, through which it aims to incorporate Christian ideology. The group is primarily led by women for women, but it welcomes men who support its beliefs and efforts.\n\nThe group was founded in San Diego, California in 1979 by Beverly LaHaye, whose husband Timothy LaHaye was an evangelical Christian minister and author of \"Battle for the Mind\", as well as coauthor of the \"Left Behind\" series. Recognized as a 501(c)(3) public policy women’s organization, the CWA aims to develop more \"responsible citizens\" through the promotion of Christian ideologies within society and politics.\n\nThe CWA identifies itself as an amalgam of \"policy experts and...activists[s]\" whose anti-feminist approach to politics bolsters its mission to \"protect and promote Biblical values among all citizens.\"\n\nConcerned Women for America is part of a movement known as the New Christian Right. Organized in reaction to the establishment of its liberal counterpart, the National Organization for Women; the growing dispute over traditional gender roles; and the rising discussion of the Equal Rights Amendment (ERA), the CWA set out to \"fight policies that it believe[d] [to] disrupt traditional gender roles and norms.\" Fueling its formation, an interview between Barbara Walters and Betty Friedan, a prominent feminist activist, gained public attention in 1978 regarding women's issues. In the interview, Friedan claimed to speak as a women's group for American women. Beverly LaHaye did not believe that Betty Friedan was speaking for the majority of women because feminist views were, according to LaHaye, anti-God and anti-family. In regards to the interview, LaHaye stated that she was convinced Friedan’s goal was a \"misguided attempt to dismantle the bedrock of American culture: the family,\" and that she believed Christian women were not included in discussions of women's rights. In this regard, the \"concern\" that the CWA had behind the name of the group was in response to the worries that feminism would \"ruin\" America. Such fears and opposition to much of the Democratic party's ideology during this era led Beverly LaHaye to host a series of conventions and rallies in San Diego, resulting in Concerned Women for America's formation. As a result, the CWA became known as \"the largest women's organization of the Christian Right during the 1980s and 1990s.\"\n\nThe CWA began with local prayer chapters mobilized around issues such as the ERA and legalized abortion. In 1987, the CWA relocated from San Diego, California to Washington, DC, at which time it formally established a national office and a national presence.\n\nThe CWA identifies itself as an organization in opposition of feminism that speaks for evangelical women who feel that the national feminist movement does not support their interests. The CWA has taken strong conservative stances on several highly debated matters. The CWA has publicly stated its opposition to issues such as abortion, sex education, same-sex marriage, euthanasia, embryonic stem cell research, needle exchange programs, pornography, cloning, drug abuse, secular education, gambling, or any other efforts which \"intervene with natural human life.\" The organization's stance on contraception is not as clear, however, for member's opinions on this topic vary widely. The only definite statement the CWA has put forth in regards to contraception is that its stance, as a whole, is ambiguous, but that \"many Catholic women follow the church’s teaching on the use of contraceptives.\" Believing that the Bible has set an \"unmistakable standard...[of] right and wrong,\" and arguing that modern humanity has deviated from such religiously based morality, the CWA primary focuses on promoting its conservative, Christian-based ideology through seven \"core issues.\n\nA few years prior to the organization's founding, the Supreme Court released its decisions regarding \"Roe v. Wade\" and \"Doe v. Bolton\", which granted women the right to attain an abortion, and disbanded all state laws restricting such action. Because many of the CWA's members were supporters of the Right to Life Movement and strongly opposed these rulings, Concerned Women for America is recognized as a pro-life organization. At the time of its founding, the CWA, along with similar organizations which spawned during this era, identified itself as part of the \"pro-family movement,\" arguing that abortion defied both Christian morality and traditional family values.\n\nThe CWA was a proponent of the welfare revisions set out by the 1994 \"Contract with America\", which aimed to reduce the frequency and acceptance of illegitimate (out of wedlock) births. These revisions suggested (1) incentivizing states to \"reduce illegitimate births without...increas[ing] abortions\" by way of block grants; (2) denying monetary assistance to \"children born to unmarried minor mothers;\" and (3) establishing a \"family cap\" in which unwed mothers could only be compensated for one child, all of which the CWA supported due to its strong opposition to abortion and its defense of the traditional family, as discussed below.\n\nCurrently, the CWA strives to inform the public of the harm it claims that abortion has on men, women and their families. The CWA began using the common pro-life movement's rhetoric of protecting women and their health in the mid-1990s, as a way to promote interest in the pro-life movement. The CWA lobbies for defunding domestic and international family planning programs, especially those that perform abortions or provide Norplant. The CWA supports crisis pregnancy centers and post-abortion counseling services.\n\nThe CWA opposes emergency contraception, such as Plan B, on the grounds that it \"blurs the line\" between contraception and abortion.\n\nAs a supporter of traditional gender roles, the CWA publicly defends the ideologies of the \"traditional family\" and traditional sexual division of labor. As such, the CWA is a supporter of the sanctity of marriage and reproduction, and strongly opposes divorce.\n\nRegarding the defense of the family, the CWA was a latecomer to the opposition of the ERA. The CWA believes that the woman's place is within the home, therefore the rights set forth by the ERA threatened the traditional nuclear family. The CWA built a national network of prayer chains in opposition to the ERA. The CWA was a supporter of the Defense of Marriage Act as the DOMA declared homosexual marriages to be illegal, thus supporting the CWA's ideals of both heterosexuality and marriage.\n\nThe CWA believes it is a Christian's duty to start a family, explaining their general disapproval of those who do not wish to have children. More specifically, these familial ideals tie into the CWA's understanding of women and motherhood; as expressed by founder, Beverly LaHaye, women have a \"natural\" desire to be mothers, leading to the organization's encouragement of women's domesticity through stay-at-home motherhood.\n\nThe CWA opposed the 1988 Act for Better Child Care (H.R. 3660), which would have provided government-sponsored child care for families in which both parents are working. The CWA also testified against the Family and Medical Leave Act on the premise that it was biased against those who could not afford to take leave.\n\nIn support of these ideals, the CWA opposes pornography, for it believes that consumption of such media can disrupt traditional family values, as well as promote domestic violence. More specifically, the CWA \"contends that pornography persuades men to demean their wives, to ruin their marriages, and to engage in illicit sexual behaviors\". In addition, the CWA claims that the proliferation of and lack of regulation for pornography promotes gay rights and premarital sex, both of which it strongly opposes.\n\nBeing a Christian organization, Concerned Women for America is known to promote Christian teachings in schools. The CWA believes that they must defend \"God's truth,\" and to do so, they advocate against \"secular humanist\" teachings and influence in public education. It is for these reasons that the CWA initially gained recognition as a public policy organization, for it publicly opposed the U.S. Supreme Court's rulings in 1962 and 1963, which banned religious teachings and practices, such as prayers and Bible readings, in public schools.\n\nTo provide a more historical context of the organization's educational efforts, in 1983, the CWA's desire for a combination of fundamental and religious teachings was concretely displayed through a lawsuit, known today as \"Mozert\" v. \"Hawkins County Board of Education\", which arose between parents (members of the CWA) and a local Tennessee school board\".\" The case began when a local mother, Vicki Frost, reprimanded the administration at her daughter's school for providing students with books that discussed evolution, feminism, and telepathy, which she contended \"could turn children away from God.\" The dispute quickly escalated as a group of likeminded parents joined Frost and filed a federal lawsuit, resulting in the CWA's public support against the school and People for the American Way, one of its many liberal counterparts. Fearing the growth of the \"Religious New Right,\" the CWA claimed that students should have the right to freely exercise their religion, parents should have a voice in their child's education, and there should be greater control over schools as a whole, arguments which gained favor in the trial court in 1986. To the CWA's dismay, however, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit reversed this decision in 1987.\n\nConcerned Women for America believes that sex education should not be taught in school, and that parents should be empowered to teach their own children about sex. However, they also concede that if it is taught in school, then it needs to be abstinence-only sex education. Many \"sexual conservatives,\" as Lisa McGirr refers to them in her research regarding sex education, have relied on the CWA to help them implement such ideology into the development or modification of sex education programs in schools, as well as to provide educational speakers.\n\nCWA supports teaching intelligent design in public schools and advocates school prayer, saying in a 1988 book titled \"America: To Pray or Not To Pray?\", that since the \"Engel v. Vitale\" Supreme Court case of 1962 outlawed government-directed prayer, morality has declined in public schools and in society in general. As described above, the CWA aided the plaintiff in the 1983 case \"Mozert v. Hawkins County School Board\", by arguing it is unconstitutional for public schools to require reading material that conflicts with the religious values of parents.\n\nIn similar fashion to the \"Mozert\" case, Concerned Women for America was recognized for its support of Nathan Bishop Middle School and the Providence, RI school district in the 1992 \"Lee v. Weisman\" case. Contrary to \"Mozert v. Hawkins County School Board\", in which the CWA protested against the school's nonsecular teaching, \"Lee v. Weisman\" resulted in support from conservative Christian organizations, such as the CWA, who fought to defend the maintenance of religious practices in public schools, such prayer at graduation.\n\nAlong with its support of the welfare revisions in the Contract with America, the CWA advocated for other amendments, such as the reinstitution of state-sponsored school prayer and \"the eligibility of religious programs for public funding.\"\n\nAppearing on Fox News, CWA CEO Penny Nance was critical of Charlotte, North Carolina Mayor Anthony Foxx's call for a National Day of Reason in addition to the National Day of Prayer.\n\nThe CWA originally opposed the U.S. involvement in the United Nations, but have since accepted the UN and instead focus on the alleged dangers of conferences and treaties. The CWA has more influence in international affairs than many other conservative organizations because they are active in the UN.\n\nThe CWA opposed CEDAW, The Convention on the Elimination of all Forms of Discrimination Against Women, which was adopted by the UN in 1979. They view CEDAW as a tool to undermine the traditional family and guarantee global abortion and prostitution.\n\nThe CWA sees a problem with men becoming addicted to pornography asserting that it leads to the exploitation and victimization of women .\n\nIn addition to pornography, the CWA opposes prostitution. The CWA believes that legalizing prostitution would increase sex trafficking, not decrease it as other organizations have proposed.\n\nConcerned Women for America has been actively involved in the prevention of sex trafficking; working closely with the National Organization for Women, the Family Research Council, Catholics for a Free Choice, Gloria Steinem, and Chuck Colson, the CWA has increased awareness of this issue, and was a major contributor in the establishment of The Trafficking Victims Protection Act (TVPA) in 2000.\n\nOn 8 May 2013 CWA's board of directors voted unanimously to include support for Israel as part of its core mission. CWA says it will support \"laws and policies that strengthen the ties between Israel and the U.S.\" and \"Policies enacted by our State Department, Department of Defense and others that encourage the development of our relationship with Israel.” Penny Nancy said that support from CWA's founder, Beverly LaHaye, was the biggest driver behind the group formalizing its support for Israel. This relationship is backed by a long history of conservative Christians' support for Israel.\n\n\n\n\nIn the late 1990s, the CWA garnered attention by way of its midday broadcasts on KFAX, a San Francisco-based Christian radio station. These broadcasts often featured \"Beverly LaHaye Live\", a popular talk-show segment which spoke about the CWA's mission, morals, and aspirations for society. Today, the CWA continues to produce a daily radio show, however it is now entitled \"Concerned Women Today\", and focuses primarily on calling members and other listeners to action by encouraging them to \"lobby senators\".\n\nConcerned Women for America publishes a monthly magazine called \"Family Voice\", which chronicles their current events as well as ways in which members can become more involved with the organization.\n\nThe Beverly LaHaye Institute (BLI) is the research arm of Concerned Women for America. BLI is considered one of the CWA's official think tanks. The BLI has a variety of research style essays and briefs that cover a wide variety of topics the CWA is interested in, most of which is published or featured on the CWA website.\n\nBLI filed an amicus brief in January 2014 in \"Sebelius vs. Hobby Lobby\". Most of the amicus briefs in the Hobby Lobby case focused on religious freedom issues. BLI's brief had a unique focus on rebutting the government's argument that the birth control mandate imposed by Affordable Care Act would improve women's health and prevent unintended pregnancies. The BLI brief rejected a clear-cut notion of \"intended\" and \"unintended\" pregnancies. BLI argued that the government's evidence, based mostly on a 2011 Institute of Medicine report, did not prove the birth control mandate would increase use rates for birth control or that unintended pregnancies harm women's health. The brief also argued against the government's claim that the mandate promotes \"gender equity.\"\n\nThe Culture and Family Institute is one of two of the CWA's research facilities. The Culture and Family Institute, founded in 2001, is a think tank that focuses exclusively on opposition to gay rights activism.\n\n"}
{"id": "41379564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41379564", "title": "Corruption in the Czech Republic", "text": "Corruption in the Czech Republic\n\nCorruption in the Czech Republic is considered to be widespread by a majority of the Czech public, according to Transparency International’s Global Corruption Barometer 2013.\n\nTransparency International's 2017 Corruption Perception Index ranks the country 42nd place out of 180 countries.\n\nA series of political corruption cases has damaged the image of Nečas’ administration (see corruption cases below), which is reflected in Transparency International’s Global Corruption Barometer 2013, which reveals that 73% of the surveyed Czechs consider political parties to be “corrupt” or “extremely corrupt”.\n\nIn the World Economic Forum’s Global Competitiveness Report 2013-2014, surveyed business executives cite corruption as the most problematic factor for doing business in the country. According to Ernst & Young’s 2012 Global Fraud Survey, 80% of surveyed companies perceive bribery and corruption to be widespread in the business sector, and fewer than 10% state that between 2009 and 2011 their companies “very frequently/always” conducted due diligence on fraud and corruption-related risks before or after acquiring a new business.\n\nAlthough the business environment is characterised by a clear set of rules and little interference, corruption remains an obstacle to doing business in public procurement, awarding of subsidies and direct interactions between public and private sectors.\n\nA case in 2009 involved Defence Minister Vlasta Parkanová overpaying for four aeroplanes in a 3.5 billion crown military contract. As a Member of Parliament, Parkanová was immune from criminal prosecution however. Finance Minister Miroslav Kalousek was also implicated in the case.\n\nIn June 2012, a former director of the entity in charge of allocating EU funds in the Liberec and Usti and Labem regions was sentenced to 7.5 years imprisonment and a USD 40,000 fine after being convicted of bribery in connection with the granting of EU funds.\n\nThe 2013 Czech political corruption scandal involved an anti-corruption raid, launched by the organised crime unit. It resulted in the arrest of the prime minister’s chief of staff, Jana Nagyova, and seven others. The unit also confiscated approximately GBR 5 million in cash and 10 kg of gold found in government offices, banks and private properties. The crimes are suspected to include bribery and abuse of power.\n\nCitizens participation and the values of integrity, accountability, and transparency are crucial components of fighting corruption. It is important to develop programs and actions to change the cultural understanding of corruption and helped citizens to act against abuses.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1063203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1063203", "title": "Criticisms of electoral politics", "text": "Criticisms of electoral politics\n\nThis article discusses criticisms of political systems, specifically representative democracy and direct democracy, that use elections as a tool for selecting representatives and/or deciding policy through a formal voting process as well as the act of voting itself. While representative democracy (and electoral systems in general) have become the modern civics global-standard, many of the below criticisms describe alternatives that existed before and/or independently of electoral systems. This includes but is not limited to the actions and political movements that stem from anti-electoralism, which describes activism around encouraging people not to vote for ethical or ideological reasons. It is also important to differentiate between criticisms of representative government and elections. Several of the following criticisms can be applied to both; however, the election of representatives and the consequences of the process on accountability of elected officials are the main focuses. This article does not address criticisms of neither \"electoralism\", the term coined by Terry Karl nor voter suppression, which is the act of discouraging or preventing people from voting in order to influence the outcome of an election in your favor.\n\nCriticisms of electoral politics range from cons of specific electoral mechanisms such as legislating by elected officials, initiative, referendum and recall to theoretical opposition to voting. These criticisms are relevant to discussions around electoral reform in both democratizing countries in the less developed world as well as most developed countries that espouse some form of electoral democracy.\n\nAnarchists and some other libertarians typically argue against the legitimacy of political representation although most libertarians accept the concept of delegation. This is primarily due to their belief that majority rule voting systems will erode the liberty of social and political minorities. Libertarians argue that any truly just political system must include voluntary association to prevent the oppressive enforcement of law. Additionally, libertarians argue that the election of representatives creates a priest-class of political administrators while disempowering and alienating the general public, for which voting is a highly mediated form of political engagement that diverts energy away from more effective means of political and social reform (or, for some anarchists, revolution in the form of Direct Action). Some libertarians argue that representation is philosophically impossible due to the unique nature of each individual, distinct from social, political, and economic class interests.\n\nMany anti-statists believe that the act of voting itself symbolizes delegate power that they themselves cannot possess. Social anarchists support consensus-based direct democracy as an alternative to an electoral system, and direct action as a means to implement decisions made individually or collectively. Mainstream evolutionary anarchists typically oppose participation in elections or democratic institutions. They believe in the effectiveness of efforts outside of the electoral process, such as mass demonstrations, strikes, occupations, resistance against laws, virtual participatory-based campaigns, etc. Notorious 20th century anarchist Emma Goldman was famously quoted as saying, \"If voting changed anything, they’d make it illegal.\"\n\nRevolutionary communists generally argue against elections under capitalism as being, at best, insufficient for revolutionary change, and at worst as diverting the personal, economic, and mental resources of the working class individual towards dead end politics when that same energy could be used to foment a communist revolution and create a proletarian dictatorship. Communists see the global-standard status of elections in the current world as clear evidence that market society has entrenched itself and been, for the moment, completely victorious over armed struggle and other truly grassroots forms of change. For Marxists, the overthrow of the entire ruling class means not just a seizure of their state power, but the establishment of an entirely different sort of state, one structured to protect working class control of production—such a fundamental change, it is usually argued, cannot take place within the electoral system of a state designed foremost for the protection of private property.\n\nThis is not, however, a critique of elections \"in general,\" and most communists hold that elections of some sort are compatible or even necessary for workers' democracy. Friedrich Engels argued that a Communist society could only exist with a representative constitution. Election of leaders at the local level and, in turn, for wider leadership on the global level, would to a communist undoubtedly make fully participatory elections absolutely necessary. However, the difference under such circumstances as compared to capitalism would be that communist elections would reject the representative democracy model as a residual of capitalism; that model, in the view of communists, would make it more likely for the new society to revert to profit and the market if fully participatory democracy were not pursued.\n\nIt is also not the case that Marxists necessarily shun capitalist elections altogether. The question of whether fighting for reforms is worthwhile and, if so, how much energy should be devoted to them has been an ongoing debate within Marxism from the beginning, and a broad spectrum of positions has resulted. Communists may consider some reforms within capitalism to be tactically important—a civil rights struggle, for instance, may help to overcome divisions that hurt and weaken all workers. In the most extreme cases of \"reformism\", a party may actively work to curb more \"revolutionary\" activity, whether out of momentary caution or genuine commitment to other methods—during the 1968 General Strike of France, Marxist and Communist Parties urged workers to return to their jobs, and express their dissatisfaction with the power of voting. On the other hand, groups such as the Progressive Labor Party make a point of abstaining completely from elections. Finally, many Marxist parties run candidates without regard to their chances of winning, purely as a means of disseminating their message.\n\nThe promotion of good governance and responsiveness are often cited as the two main justifications for a system of elected representatives. According to Alex Guerrero, these make up mechanisms for meaningful accountability. He argues that in order for these to exist, elections must be free, regular, competitive and fair. Without this perfect system, officials are likely to be able to avoid accountability mechanisms that should be built into the democratic system. Citizens' ability to monitor the behaviors of their representatives and therefore vote or protest in line with their own values is also diminished by conduct, issue, and broad and narrow evaluative ignorance. This is particularly important because many political problems are information intensive. Guerrero argues that political power is actually more important for interest groups the less it is connected to constituent preferences; therefore, less accountability to constituents may be the easier and cheaper option for representatives. The interests exercise the voting process by either influencing the elections and those elected.\n\nRational ignorance is a theory based on the idea that there is not adequate enough incentive for voters to educate themselves fully on political issues. The theory explains that the expected benefits of this information are so small, that, for at least some voters, the reward of informed elections is not worth the cost. This is an inherent flaw in mass popular elections, when the majority of constituents have a reason not to vote in a manner that holds elected official completely accountable.\n\nIn many developing and transitioning countries, electoral fraud is at least anecdotally present. More recently, in developed countries, especially in the Western Hemisphere, voter fraud has become a hot-button political issues. In several circumstances, however, the broader ideological concerns surrounding voter fraud focus on the idea that fraud or any form of misrepresentation is inherent in the electoral system.\n\nFor several scholars who oppose the electoral system, the existence of democratic deficient organizations that do not aid in fulfilling the participatory conditions of representative democracy is a driving factor in their criticism. Colin Crouch argues in \"Post Democracy\" that focus on electoral politics detracts from the power of issue- and cause-based outside groups like large international organizations and smaller grassroots coalitions. He states that citizens engaging with these organizations provides more means to become involved in the political process than simply helping politicians get elected. This is especially true in the era of modern technology. This speaks to larger issues with the American pluralist system and the impact of lobbying groups on elections.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46602579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46602579", "title": "Curtis Culwell Center attack", "text": "Curtis Culwell Center attack\n\nThe Curtis Culwell Center attack was carried out by two Americans from Arizona who attacked officers with gunfire at the entrance to an exhibit featuring cartoon images of Muhammad at the Curtis Culwell Center in Garland, Texas on May 3, 2015. The attackers shot a Garland Independent School District (GISD) security officer in the ankle. Shortly after the attackers pulled up and opened fire, both were promptly shot and killed by an off duty Garland police officer working as mall security. The FBI had been monitoring the two attackers for years and an undercover agent was right behind them, filming with his camera, when the first shots were fired. The agent was himself arrested and later released.\n\nThe security guard who was wounded filed a lawsuit against the FBI in October 2017, claiming the FBI was partially responsible for his injuries.\n\nThe Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) claimed responsibility for the attack plot, the first time the militant group took credit for an attack in the United States. ISIL's claim of responsibility has not been verified, and U.S. officials stated that the attack appears to have been inspired, but not directed, by ISIL.\n\nAn online ISIL persona run by internet troll Joshua Ryne Goldberg had posted maps to the exhibition, and urged his followers to attack the event. Goldberg pled guilty to federal charges in December 2017. His persona was retweeted by one of the attackers on the morning of the attack, and Goldberg claimed responsibility for inciting the attack to multiple news outlets and in his plea agreement.\n\nThe event, which featured images of Muhammad, was advertised as the \"First Annual Muhammad Art Exhibit and Contest\", presented by the American Freedom Defense Initiative (AFDI), or Stop Islamization of America. It was organized by the AFDI together with the David Horowitz Freedom Center's Jihad Watch, run by Robert Spencer. A $10,000 award was offered for the winning cartoon, which was selected from among 350 submissions. The prize was awarded to Bosch Fawstin, a former Muslim and a critic of Islam who submitted six drawings, with the text \"You can't draw me!\"/\"That's why I draw you.\" He was to collect an award of $12,500. Though images of Muhammad are not explicitly banned by the Quran, prominent Islamic views oppose human images, especially those of prophets. Such views have gained ground among certain militant Islamic groups.\n\nThe event featured speeches by Pamela Geller, president of the AFDI, and Geert Wilders, a Dutch lawmaker known for his outspoken criticism of Islam. Congressmen Keith Ellison and André Carson, both Muslims, had tried unsuccessfully to block Wilders from entering the United States. Wilders is currently on an Al-Qaeda hit-list following the release of \"Fitna\", a 2008 short film that he wrote. The event was motivated by the terrorist attack on the satirical weekly magazine \"Charlie Hebdo\" four months prior, and was the first of a planned annual contest. At the time of the attack, the \"First Annual Muhammad Art Exhibit and Contest\" exhibit was attended by approximately 150 people, although the number was initially estimated at 200.\n\nThe organizers of the event had paid over $10,000 to a total of forty off-duty police officers and private security guards. The Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), a SWAT team, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF), and the Texas Department of Public Safety (DPS) were also brought in for the occasion of any possible incidents. At the time, there was reportedly \"no immediate credible threat\" of an attack.\n\nPrior to the attack, ISIL had urged followers and sympathizers who were unable to join the fighting in the Syrian Civil War to carry out jihad in their home countries. Approximately three hours prior to the start of the contest, the FBI had alerted the Garland Police Department that a suspected extremist, identified as gunman Elton Simpson, was \"interested in the event\" and could show up there. However, FBI officials later clarified they had no reason to believe an actual attack would occur at the contest. Officers later stated that they were not aware of the alert.\n\nThe \"First Annual Muhammad Art Exhibit and Contest\" event was hosted at the Curtis Culwell Center, rented from the Garland Independent School District. The center previously hosted a fundraiser in January called \"Stand With the Prophet in Honor and Respect\", which was organized to combat negative stereotypes of Islam. Geller had spearheaded about 1,000 picketers at that event.\n\nBefore the start of the \"First Annual Muhammad Art Exhibit and Contest\", concerns were expressed by Garland citizens about the center hosting the event due to potential backlash and retaliation, a sentiment that had also been voiced prior to the \"Stand With the Prophet in Honor and Respect\" event. However, officials allowed both events to proceed as planned, since the school district was bound by a nondiscriminatory leasing policy. Garland ISD board president Rick Lambert said in January, \"The Culwell Center is available for rental as long as you comply with the law. Because it is a public facility, the district is not allowed to discriminate based upon viewpoint.\"\n\nMinutes prior to the attack, a man, identified by police as one of the gunmen, posted a tweet with the hashtag #texasattack: \"May Allah accept us as mujahideen.\" In his tweet, he said he and an accomplice had pledged allegiance to \"Amirul Mu'mineen\", which Paul Cruickshank of CNN said probably referred to ISIL leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi. The user also asked his readers to follow Junaid Hussain on Twitter. After the shooting occurred, Hussain tweeted: \"Allahu Akbar!!!! 2 of our brothers just opened fire.\"\n\nJust before the event was set to end at around 7:00p.m., two men wearing body armor and equipped with three rifles, three handguns, and 1,500 rounds of ammunition drove up to a police car that was parked next to a barricade erected in front of the center. Seated inside the police car were Officer Gregory Stevens of the Garland Police Department and an unarmed Garland ISD security guard. The two gunmen got out of their vehicle and fired dozens of rounds at the police car, shooting the Garland ISD security guard. The men were then shot and wounded by Stevens, and eventually killed by four members of the SWAT team. The initial news reports mistakenly claimed that Officer Gregory Stevens killed the two gunmen. The Garland ISD officer, identified as 58-year-old Bruce Joiner, was shot in the ankle. He was treated at a local hospital and confirmed to be released at 9:00 p.m.\n\nAuthorities were worried that the suspects' car could contain an incendiary device; as a precaution, several nearby businesses were evacuated. Bomb units from the Garland Police Department, the FBI, the Plano Police Department, and the Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport were called to the scene. Police cordoned off a large area and at least three helicopters circled overhead. An officer in SWAT gear took the stage toward the end of the event and told attendees that a shooting had occurred, stating that one officer and two suspects had been shot. It was later confirmed that there were no explosives inside the vehicle. After the attack, Phoenix police began searching the two assailants' apartment.\n\nElton Simpson ( 1985 – May 3, 2015) and Nadir Hamid Soofi ( 1981 – May 3, 2015), roommates living in an apartment in Phoenix, Arizona, were the assailants in the attack. Simpson was convicted of making a false statement about terrorism in 2011, and followed hacker and pro-ISIL propagandist Junaid Hussain on Twitter. Simpson was an employee at a dentist's office, while Soofi was running a carpet cleaning business. A third man, Abdul Malik Abdul Kareem (born 1972), was responsible for housing Simpson and Soofi at his home, as well as supplying them with the firearms and ammunition used in the attack. According to an indictment, around June 2014, the three began conspiring to support ISIL and considered targeting a number of locations for terrorist attacks.\n\nSimpson was born in Illinois and raised in suburban Westmont. He moved to Phoenix at a young age. He converted to Islam while attending Washington High School. His lawyer described him as \"particularly devout\" and \"entrenched in Islam\", but said he did not seem to be a threat to anyone. Simpson was a longtime worshiper at the Islamic Community Center of Phoenix, starting in approximately 2005, but according to the mosque's president, Usama Shami, he stopped showing up months prior to the attack. The mosque has been part of previous terrorism probes. He attended Yavapai College in Prescott, Arizona, playing basketball for the college there.\n\nSimpson was the subject of an FBI investigation starting in 2006, during which he stated his intent to travel to Somalia and join fellow jihadists. He had ties to Hassan Abujihaad, a former United States Navy sailor arrested in Phoenix and convicted of terrorism-related charges. Abujihaad had been an occasional attendant of the Islamic Community Center of Phoenix.\n\nIn May 2009, Simpson told an FBI informant, \"I'm telling you, man, we can make it to the battlefield. It's time to roll.\" He was also recorded saying, \"If you get shot, or you get killed, it's [heaven] straightaway... That's what we here for ... so why not take that route?\" In 2010, one day before Simpson was scheduled to travel to Somalia, he was arrested by federal agents as the result of a four-year investigation. The Islamic Community Center of Phoenix posted cash bond of $100,000 to have him released from custody. Simpson was found guilty of making a false statement regarding international and domestic terrorism, and was sentenced to three years probation and a $600 fine in August 2011 after lying to a federal agent about his travel plans. His lenient sentence was the result of U.S. District Court Judge Mary H. Murguia not finding sufficient evidence to conclude that he planned to join a terrorist organization. He was put on the U.S. federal No Fly List. He had previously intended to travel with others to Syria to fight with ISIL, though his accomplices were arrested during simultaneous FBI raids in San Diego and Minneapolis. Authorities had already opened an investigation of Simpson at the time of the attack.\n\nHe also interacted with Junaid Hussain, a British-born hacker and member of ISIL, and Mujahid Miski, an Al-Shabaab recruiter and propagandist of Muslim extremism from Minnesota, via Twitter through \"secure communication\". Hussain was also the founder of a pro-ISIL hacker group called \"CyberCaliphate\", which was responsible for a cyber-attack on the United States Central Command's Twitter account in January 2015. A week prior to the attack, Simpson mentioned the \"First Annual Muhammad Art Exhibit and Contest\" event in a tweet sent to what is believed to be Hassan's Twitter account. Simpson then asked, \"When will they ever learn?\", and Hassan responded: \"The brothers from the \"Charlie Hebdo\" attack did their part. It's time for brothers in the #US to do their part.\" Investigators believe Hussain and Hassan encouraged Simpson to commit an attack on U.S. soil, but also that Simpson assembled the attack plan and targeted the art exhibit on his own accord.\n\nSimpson was identified as the same user who posted a tweet with the hashtag #texasattack: \"May Allah accept us as mujahideen.\" The profile photo on #texasattack was of the late American Salafi imam Anwar al-Awlaki, who had repeatedly called for violence against cartoonists who insulted the Muslim prophet Muhammad prior to being killed in a U.S. drone strike in 2011 in Yemen. Junaid Hussain was identified as the ISIL propagandist whom Simpson recommended his readers to follow in that same tweet.\n\nSoofi's father, Azam Soofi, is Pakistani, and his mother, Sharon Soofi, is American. According to his mother, he was born at Presbyterian Hospital of Dallas and lived in Garland until age three. The family then moved to Plano, Texas, and then Alabama. His mother, who was raised Catholic, converted to Islam at the request of his father. Soofi was also raised as a Muslim by his father. He and his brother moved to Pakistan with their father and stepmother after their parents were divorced in the 1990s. During his time there, Soofi attended the International School of Islamabad, where he was said by friends to have been popular among his classmates.\n\nIn 1998, after living in Pakistan for six years, Soofi moved back to the U.S. to live with his mother in Utah. The two later moved to Phoenix in the mid-2000s. According to his friends in Pakistan, he had difficulties adjusting to the American culture upon moving to the U.S. He took a pre-medical course at the University of Utah starting in the fall semester of 1998, but dropped out in the summer of 2003. At one point, he also owned Cleopatra Bistro Pizza, a pizza and hot wings eatery that served halal food, though the business struggled and eventually closed down five months prior to the attack.\n\nSoofi was arrested and charged for more than twenty minor offenses, most of them traffic violations. In June 2001, when he was twenty, he pleaded guilty to possession of alcohol by a minor. In March 2002, he pleaded guilty to alcohol-related reckless driving, followed by another guilty plea in June 2002 for driving on a suspended license. In 2003, he was charged for distributing a controlled substance and possessing drug paraphernalia, although the case was later dismissed. That same year in July, Soofi pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor assault charge. The case was also dismissed.\n\nHe was survived by his parents and an eight-year-old son from a failed marriage. After the attack, his mother said her son was \"brainwashed\" by Simpson, claims that were echoed by his father and maternal grandmother, and that she did not blame police for killing her son.\n\nAbdul Kareem was born and raised in Philadelphia as Decarus Lowell Thomas. In 2013, he changed his name to Abdul Malik Abdul Kareem and converted to Islam. He occasionally attended the Islamic Community Center of Phoenix since at least 2011 and cleaned carpets there. Kareem had a criminal record in Arizona, including two aggravated drunken driving convictions and an aggravated assault charge in 1997. In the latter incident, a woman told police that he pointed a gun in her direction; Abdul Kareem claimed he instead took the weapon away from his brother during an argument and wasn't pointing it at anyone. He had been arrested a total of eleven times between 1991 and 2004, and also served jail time twice.\n\nFollowing the attack, he lied to FBI investigators several times and said he was not asked by Simpson or Soofi to directly participate in the attack. However, according to a confidential informant, Kareem was indeed planning on participating with them and had been angry at the informant for not selling him suppressors and bulletproof vests. He allegedly attempted to fund the attack by feigning injuries inflicted after being struck by a car and then making an insurance claim based on the injuries. Previously, Abdul Kareem was investigated by the FBI in 2012 for having a terrorism training document on his computer and developing a plot to attack the Super Bowl XLIX game in Glendale, Arizona with pipe bombs. He had also reportedly accessed a list released by ISIL, which contained the names and addresses of U.S. service members.\n\nHe was arrested on June 11 and charged with \"conspiracy, making false statements and interstate transportation of firearms with intent to commit a felony.\" According to an indictment, Kareem practiced shooting with Simpson and Soofi between January and May in Phoenix. According to CNN, the firearms were all bought legally. His trial was initially set for August 4, but it was later rescheduled for October 6. On December 21, Abdul Kareem was also charged with conspiring to provide support to ISIL and attempting to attack the Super Bowl XLIX game. On March 17, 2016, Kareem was found guilty of conspiring with terrorists for helping the attack's perpetrators plan to carry it out.\n\nIn addition to the gunman's tweet pledging allegiance to ISIL, the jihadist group claimed responsibility for the attack, stating on its Al Bayan radio station that \"two soldiers of the Caliphate executed an attack on an art exhibit in Garland, Texas... This exhibit was portraying negative pictures of the Prophet Mohammed.\" It marked the first time ISIL took credit for an attack in the mainland U.S. ISIL promised to launch further attacks in the future. There was initially no evidence that ISIL had contact with the perpetrators, and law enforcement groups continued to investigate a possible link. Some counterterrorism experts expressed doubts on the legitimacy of those claims, noting that ISIL has in the past claimed responsibility for attacks they actually had no involvement in. One U.S. official said the attack was \"certainly more than just inspiration\" by ISIL. A law enforcement official said the attack did \"not appear to be a clear-cut case of a lone wolf, nor a pure case of someone directed by others to act\"; instead, \"it appears to be something in between the two extremes\". According to Defense Secretary Ashton Carter, the shooting was inspired, but not directed, by ISIL.\n\nIn August 2015, Centcom announced that it had killed Junaid Hussain in a drone strike in Syria, due to his influence in motivating lone wolf-style attacks. U.S. officials reportedly had a strong desire to assassinate Hussain, listing him as the third-highest ISIL target on the Pentagon's \"kill list\" behind Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi and Mohammed Emwazi.\n\nIn December 2017, a Florida Jewish American internet troll, Joshua Ryne Goldberg, was convicted of planning the bombing of a 2015 9/11 memorial event in Kansas City. In his communications with an FBI informant, Goldberg claimed credit for inspiring the Garland attack. Goldberg's fake Twitter persona using the name \"Australi Witness\" had posted a map of the Curtis Culwell Center and urged any in the area to attack \"with your weapons, bombs, or knives\". News reports about Goldberg's online persona calling for the Garland attack first brought Goldberg to the attention of the FBI. The FBI also found that Elton Simpson retweeted a message from Goldberg's Twitter handle on the morning of the attack.\n\nFollowing the attack, Texas Governor Greg Abbott released a statement, calling the attack \"senseless\" and promising there was an investigation underway. He also issued his gratitude to the Garland police officers for their swift action against the assailants. U.S. Secretary of Homeland Security Jeh Johnson said\n\n[The attack] serves as a reminder that free and protected speech, no matter how offensive to some, never justifies violence of any sort. This attack also underscores the importance of close collaboration between federal, state and local authorities in our Nation's homeland security efforts, as well as public awareness and vigilance.\n\nJohnson urged American citizens to not \"misdirect\" their anger at Muslims. Texas Republican Senator John Cornyn said the contest was an expression of free speech. U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon also condemned the attack in a statement.\n\nMuslim organizations also reacted to the attack. The Council on American–Islamic Relations issued a statement condemning the attack and saying, \"Bigoted speech can never be an excuse for violence.\" Dr. Nasim Rehmatullah, National Vice President of the U.S. chapter of the Ahmadiyya Muslim Community, also said in a statement: \n\nViolence is never an acceptable response to hate speech, no matter how inflammatory and uncivilized that speech is. While we do not yet know what motivated these shooters, we urge calm and defer to local, state, and federal authorities to peaceably and justly resolve this.\n\nFollowing the attack, ISIL supporters expressed their support online with postings on ISIL-affiliated websites. Bosch Fawstin, the winner of the cartoon contest, has received numerous death threats. The Southern Poverty Law Center plans to discuss the incident in its 2016 report on hate in the United States. In the wake of the attack, the Garland Independent School District announced it would begin reviewing its policy for hosting events at the Curtis Culwell Center.\n\nOn May 29, 2015, protesters staging a \"Freedom of Speech\" rally outside of the Islamic Community Center of Phoenix, the same mosque where Simpson and Soofi had attended, were met with counter-protests. Jon Ritzheimer, a former U.S. Marine, organized the protest to take place during Friday evening prayers as a \"response to the recent attacks in Texas.\"\n\nOn June 2, 2015, Boston police killed a Roslindale man armed with a military-style knife after the man charged at the officers. The man had planned to assassinate Geller because of the contest, but became impatient and decided to target local police instead.\n\nIn an interview with CNN, Geller denied that the event was intentionally provocative, criticized the media for not defending the First Amendment, and pointed out that other religions have been similarly offended but do not react violently. Geller later told CNN that the shooting would not stop her and the AFDI from organizing similar events in the future. She said regarding the attack, \"Freedom of speech is under violent assault here.\" She also said that the shooting showed how \"needed our event really was.\"\n\nThe \"Chicago Tribune\" reported on August 1 that Soofi, despite his long rap sheet, purchased a 9mm gun in 2010 at Lone Wolf Trading Co., one of the private companies encouraged by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) to sell weapons to persons who normally would not be legally allowed such purchases, an action that would later become the ATF gunwalking scandal. The \"Tribune\" wrote that Soofi's purchase was initially put on a seven-day hold but that \"for reasons that remain unclear, the hold was lifted after 24 hours, and Soofi got the 9-millimeter.\" The day after the attack, the U.S. Department of Justice sent an urgent firearms disposition request to Lone Wolf Trading Co. As of the date of the \"Tribune\"s report, the FBI has not released any details of the guns used by Simpson and Soofi.\n\nThe injured security guard, Bruce Joiner, filed a lawsuit in Oct 2017 against the FBI and DOJ. His suit argues the bureau \"solicited, encouraged, directed and aided members of ISIS in planning and carrying out the May 3 attack,\" and is asking for just over $8 million damages. Evidence submitted to court confirm that an FBI undercover agent, dressed in middle eastern attire, followed the attackers to the attack site. When he saw the attack underway he attempted to flee and was nearly killed himself by police at the scene.\n\nThe lawsuit alleges that the FBI knew about the attack, and allowed it to proceed, so that their undercover agent can earn \"street cred\" with ISIS directly. The suit asks for damages because the FBI knew about the attack but made no effort to stop it, or to warn the intended victims that danger was imminent.\n\nIn an interview with Fox News Channel's \"The Kelly File\", UCLA School of Law professor Eugene Volokh said\n\n[T]his kind of discussion has value in debate about Islam and about the role of Islam and about the reaction of some Muslims, fortunately only a small portion of Muslims do these kinds of things. But beyond that it has value as a reaffirmation of our free speech rights. It has value as an act of defiance. It has value as people saying: look, we are not going to be shut up. When you tell us that we cannot draw pictures of Mohammed, when you tell us we cannot say these things or else you'll kill us, that just means that we're going to do it again and again to show that you cannot threaten Americans into submission.\n\nAlso on \"The Kelly File\", Alan Dershowitz said that \"critics of Pamela Geller...should realize that while she may have intended to provoke a negative reaction from extreme Islamists, she shares something in common with civil rights leader the Rev. Martin Luther King, Jr.\"\n\nVictor Davis Hanson wrote in an article in the \"National Review\" online magazine that \"radical Islam has already cut a huge swathe out of American free speech through more than a decade of death threats.\" He also wrote that the criticism directed towards Geller for supposedly striking up religious hatred was \"scary\" and compared Geller to the cartoonists who were killed during the \"Charlie Hebdo\" shooting.\n\nBret Stephens, Pulitzer Prize-winning columnist for \"The Wall Street Journal\", put Geller's speech in the same category as Bill Maher or the writers of \"Charlie Hebdo\" — legitimate speech against Islamism — and commented, \"I say Islamist because there is a rich history of Muslim depictions of Muhammad.\" He also added that \"those [who] blame Geller for the provocation are blaming the victim just as those who say rape victims are asking for it.\" Stephens went on to argue that a \"society that rejects the notion of a heckler's veto cannot accept the idea of a murderer's veto...\"\n\nRich Lowry, writing in \"Politico\", defended Geller's idea that the contest and exhibit's purpose was about freedom of speech:\n\nRespectable opinion can't bear the idea that she has become a symbol of free speech, which once upon a time was — and still is, when convenient — one of the highest values of the media and the left. If Geller were a groundbreaking pornographer like the loathsome Larry Flynt, someone would already be planning a celebratory biopic of her life. If she were a gadfly sticking it to a major Western religion rather than to Islam, she might be considered more socially acceptable.\n\nOn the day after the shooting, Donald Trump, appearing on \"Fox & Friends\", questioned Geller's motives. He said, \"It looks like she's just taunting everybody. What is she doing? Drawing Mohammed and it looks like she's actually taunting people. (...) You know, I'm one that believes in free speech, probably more than she does. But what's the purpose of this?\" In response to Trump's remarks, Bill O'Reilly said in his program \"The O'Reilly Factor\", \"Mr. Trump is correct. By setting up a contest and awarding $10,000 for a depiction of the Prophet Mohammed, the American Freedom Defense Initiative spurred a violent attack. (...) Insulting a religion with more than a billion followers does not advance the cause of defeating the fanatical jihadists. It hurts the cause.\"\n\nFox News' \"On the Record\" host Greta Van Susteren criticized Geller for putting police officers' lives in danger. She said, \"It's one thing for someone to stand up for the First Amendment and put his own you-know-what on the line, but here, those insisting they were defending the First Amendment were knowingly putting officers' lives on the line — the police.\"\n\nGeller and Islamist Anjem Choudary appeared on \"Hannity\" on Fox News to debate the merits of AFDI's contest. In response to host Sean Hannity's question about whether Choudary supported an unverified ISIL fatwa and posted on an anonymous message board calling for Geller's death, he replied, \"This isn't Mickey Mouse or Donald Duck they were drawing. This is the prophet. This woman wants to have people draw cartoons that insult the prophet knowing full well that carries the death penalty in Islam. So definitely, she's asking people to attack.\" When Hannity asked whether he thought Geller should die, Choudary said, \"She should be tried in a sharia court, be found guilty, and, of course, she would face capital punishment.\" After Hannity reminded Choudary that Geller is not a Muslim, he continued, \"You can't go down that road, insulting Muslims, and think the Muslims aren't going to retaliate back. I would attack someone if they insult my mother, let alone the prophet who I love 100 times more.\"\n\nGarland Mayor Douglas Athas said he wished Geller had not chosen his town for her event and explained, \"Her actions put my police officers, my citizens and others at risk. Her program invited an incendiary reaction. She picked my community, which does not support in any shape, passion or form, her ideology. (...) But at the end of the day, we did our jobs, we protected her freedoms and her life\".\n\nIn an interview with \"The New York Times\", the editor of \"Charlie Hebdo\", Gérard Biard, rejected \"attempts by right-wing activists to exploit that attack for their own agendas\". He also added, \"We have nothing to do with Pamela Geller's work. When Islam or the Prophet Muhammad jump out of the news, we comment on it, we mock it, maybe. But we are not obsessed about it.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "25740336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25740336", "title": "Czechoslovak Social Democratic Workers Party in the Republic of Austria", "text": "Czechoslovak Social Democratic Workers Party in the Republic of Austria\n\nThe Czechoslovak Social Democratic Workers Party in the Republic of Austria () was a political party in Austria, working amongst the Czech minority. The party was founded on December 7, 1919, as the Vienna branch of the Czechoslovak Social Democratic Workers Party separated itself from the party centre in Prague (with the break-up of the Austro-Hungarian empire the party branches in Vienna and Prague were now parts of two different states). The party worked closely together with the Social Democratic Workers Party of Austria (SDAPÖ), and cooperated with the Austrian Social Democrats on all political issues. The party contested parliamentary elections on joint lists together with SDAPÖ.\n\nThe first, and constituent, party congress was held in 1921. The congress adopted a party programme, which included demands such as the right to education in mother language, the unification of the Vienna urban and rural areas into a single electoral constituency, judicial reform, lowering the voting age to 18 years, full press freedom and direct popular intervention in the legislative. Most of the social demands of the party were similar to those raised by SDAPÖ.\n\nIn May 1927 the party congress adopted a new party programme, following the lines of the SDAPÖ \"Linz Programme\".\n\nThe party was banned in February 1934. The party then began to operate as an underground organization. Publications were printed in neighbouring Czechoslovakia, and smuggled into Austria.\n\nThe party was organized on the principle of individual membership. As of 1928, the party claimed a membership of around 14,200, out of whom 3,700 were women. The highest organ of the party was the party congress, held every two years. The congress elected a Party Presidium and Secretariat. The activists of the party were active in the Austrian trade union movement. The youth wing of the party had, as of 1928, 2,825 members. In close connection to the party was the educational association, \"Máj\", the Workers Gymnastics Union (DTJ) and cycling clubs. There was also a Czech section of the \"Republikanischer Schutzbund\", connected to the party.\n\nThe party had offices almost all of the districts of the country. These offices also served as offices for the district branches of the youth and women's wings of the party.\n\nAs of 1925, Lesak was Chairman of the Party Presidium. In 1928 he had been replaced by W. Filar and in 1931 by Čeněk Sahanek. Other prominent leaders of the party included the parliamentarian František Dvořák, Antonín Machát (municipal councillor on behalf of the Czech minority in Vienna during the Second World War), František Strnad, Bedřich Čepelka and Josef Petrů.\n\nAs of 1928, the Party Presidium consisted of Filar (chairman), Drahozal, Kopecká, Skranc, Zedniček, Čižek, Strnad, Skřivan (secretary), Adámek, Hajn, Pechowá and Kohl.\n\nThe central organ of the party was \"Vídeňské dělnické listy\" ('Viennoise Workers' Paper').\n\nThe party was affiliated to the Labour and Socialist International between 1923 and 1940. Alois Wawrousek represented the party in the Executive of the Labour and Socialist International between August 1925 to 1937.\n"}
{"id": "23202199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23202199", "title": "Democratic Liberal Party (Armenia)", "text": "Democratic Liberal Party (Armenia)\n\nDemocratic Liberal Party (Armenia) (in Armenian Ռամկավար Ազատական Կուսակցություն (Հայաստան) pronounced Ramgavar Azatakan Kusaktsutyun (Hayastan) ) is a new political party formed on 3 June 2012 in Armenia.\n\nOn December 1, 2011, Democratic Liberal Party of Armenia and Armenakan-Democratic Liberal Party had signed an initial agreement for launching a unification process between the two parties. The agreement materialized in the organization of general assemblies by the two formation to approve on unification moves.\n\nOn 3 June 2012, a joint general constituting assembly was held and union and official declaration of the new party made. Twenty five members were elected as the party's pan-republican Central Committee with Hakob Avetikyan being elected as the general secretary of the party.\n\nThe new party Democratic Liberal Party (Armenia) is made up of the result of the merger of two existing (and initially rival) liberal democratic parties:\n\nThe two parties declared in their last respective general assemblies held the decision to liquidate their parties and join in forces in the new party. They also declared in their joint meeting held at the Tekeyan Center in Yerevan that the Democratic Liberal Party (Armenia) is the rightful historic continuation of the two earlier parties.\n\nThe Democratic Liberal Party (Armenia) also made friendly declarations toward the historical Armenian Democratic Liberal Party (ADL) in the Diaspora for relationship between the two for very close cooperation in the interest of forming a possible global union in the future.\n"}
{"id": "57741026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57741026", "title": "Disabled, Not Half a Human Being", "text": "Disabled, Not Half a Human Being\n\nDisabled, Not Half a Human Being is an Israeli Non-governmental organization (Voluntary association) which works for the rights of people with disabilities in the State of Israel. Its main goals are raising the general disability pension and equalizing it to the minimum wage, advancing the issue of accessibility, advancing the Right to housing for disabled people, nursing, proper medical treatment and integration of people with disabilities into society and employment.\n\nThe organization was established in April 2016, as a part of a national campaign whose name was \"Disabled, Not Half a Human Being\", which had begun in January 2015, as a protest to the wear of the disability pension in Israel for more than 15 years. The association is a member of several social forums as \"The Forum for the Struggle Against Poverty\", \"The Forum for the health advancement of people with disabilities\", and the national committee for advancing the rights of people with disabilities in the Israel Bar Association.\n\nThe founder and chairman of the association is Alex Fridman, a wheelchair-bound man who has a muscular dystrophy which is SMA, a social networking screenwriter.\n\nIn January 2015 Fridman decided to establish the association after hearing about a woman with a disability who tried to commit suicide as a result of her economic distress, and began a viral campaign under the slogan \"Disabled, Not Half a Human Being\" to raise the Disability pension in Israel.\n\nThe other founders are CEO Hanan Tal, Advocate Amit Halamish, and Head of Research Asher Rochberger.\n\n\n\nDisability in Israel\n\n"}
{"id": "25188945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25188945", "title": "Eclipse of Reason", "text": "Eclipse of Reason\n\nEclipse of Reason is a 1987 anti-abortion documentary video directed, filmed, and narrated by Bernard Nathanson, with an introduction by Charlton Heston. \"Eclipse of Reason\" is a follow up to Nathanson’s first film \"The Silent Scream\". The film is perhaps most known for its controversial depiction of a dilation and evacuation (D&E) abortion. The subject matter of this film focuses more on the moral implications of abortion. It served as Nathanson’s call to the women of the world to end the practice of abortion. This film, as well as \"The Silent Scream\", was instrumental in the Right to Life Committee's garnering the attention of the United States public regarding the issue of abortion.\n\n\"Eclipse of Reason\" represented the argument that the fetus is human, and therefore abortion is murder. The film also serves to combat critics to \"The Silent Scream\" who argue that, although Nathanson claimed the film relied only on imagery and not pejorative speech, the film was heavily reliant on upon the language of the narrator. Therefore, \"Eclipse of Reason\" delivers the same message that abortion is murder, with similar imagery as its predecessor \"The Silent Scream\"; however, to avoid the previous appropriation of language over imagery \"Eclipse of Reason\" asks it viewers to consider reason rather than using emotionally charged narration.\n\n\"Eclipse of Reason\" shows a late term abortion occurring sometime after the fourth month of pregnancy. The film focuses on the limbs of the fetus while in the womb then proceeds to show the abortion in graphic detail. While the fetus in Nathanson’s previous film was little more than a black and white pulsating image, the fetus in \"Eclipse of Reason\" was shown vividly in full color.\n\nDifferent women who have had abortions and suffered harmful effects from the procedure give testimony later in the film.\n\nNathanson concludes \"Eclipse of Reason\" with a montage of photographs that depicts his idea of opposing worlds, one filled with abortions and one without abortions. He argues that we cannot achieve a “World of Reason” without completely eliminating abortions.\n\nAccording to Newsweek, the film is \"harder for critics to dismiss as misleading\" than was \"The Silent Scream\".\n\n\"Eclipse of Reason\" is most heavily criticized for its idealization of the “World of Reason” and for creating a dichotomy that may not exist in between the two hypothetical worlds. According to one set of critics Nathanson created a world of good (pro-life) versus evil (pro-choice), which directly opposed his intention of creating a film devoid of any sort of emotionally charged language.\n"}
{"id": "1516039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1516039", "title": "Electoral roll", "text": "Electoral roll\n\nThe electoral roll (also called an electoral register, voters roll or poll book) is a list of persons who are eligible to vote in a particular electoral district and who are registered to vote, if required in a particular jurisdiction. An electoral roll has a number of functions, especially to streamline voting on election day. Voter registration is also used to combat electoral fraud by enabling authorities to verify an applicant's identity and entitlement to a vote, and to ensure a person doesn't vote multiple times. In jurisdictions where voting is compulsory, the electoral roll is used to indicate who has failed to vote. Most jurisdictions maintain permanent electoral rolls while some jurisdictions compile new electoral rolls before each election. In some jurisdictions, people to be selected for jury or other civil duties are chosen from an electoral roll.\n\nElectoral rolls, under various names, are used in, for example, the United States, United Kingdom, Australia and New Zealand, but not all jurisdictions require voter registration as a prerequisite for voting, such as in the State of North Dakota in the United States. Most jurisdictions close updating of electoral rolls some period, commonly 14 or 28 days, before an election, but some American jurisdictions allow registration at the same time as attending a polling station to vote, and Australia closes the rolls 7 days after an election is called, rather than with reference to election day.\n\nTraditionally, electoral rolls were maintained in paper form, either as loose-leaf folders or in printed pages, but nowadays electronic electoral rolls are increasingly being adopted. Similarly, the number of countries adopting biometric voter registration has steadily increased. As of 2016, half of the countries in Africa and Latin America use biometric technology for their electoral rolls.\n\nA permanent Commonwealth electoral roll, first compiled in 1908 and now maintained by the Australian Electoral Commission (AEC), is used for federal elections and referendums. It also forms the basis of state (except in Western Australia, which compiles its own) and local electoral rolls.\n\nEnrolment has been compulsory for all eligible voters since 1911 (with the exception of Norfolk Island, where enrolment is voluntary). Eligible voters are Australian citizens over the age of 18 years. Residents in Australia who had been enrolled as British subjects in 1984, though not Australian citizens, can continue to be enrolled. (These comprise about 9% of the electoral roll.) Since 2009, New South Wales has drawn information from various government departmental sources to automatically enroll eligible electors onto the state roll, but not the federal roll. State civil registrars are required to supply information, for example relating to death of a person, to enable names of deceased persons to be removed from electoral rolls.\n\nCurrently, the electoral roll records just the name and address of the voter, although in previous years occupation was also recorded. Since 21 July 2004 the Commonwealth electoral roll cannot be sold in any format. It has not been produced in printed format since 1985, when it changed to publication on microfiche. Today it is only produced in an electronic format, and can only be viewed at an AEC office, each of which holds a copy of the electoral roll for the entire country. These arrangements try to strike a balance between privacy of the voters and the publication of the roll, which is integral to the conduct of free and fair elections, enabling participants to verify the openness and accountability of the electoral process and object to the enrolment of any elector.\n\nThe electoral roll in Hong Kong is maintained by the Registration and Electoral Office (REO). The final register is available every year on 25 July, except for years in which elections for the territory's district councils are held, when the final register is available on 15 September. All permanent residents of the territory, a status which required seven years of continuous residence, are eligible to be registered voters regardless of nationality or citizenship.\n\nThe electoral register in Ireland is maintained by the local authorities and all residents that have reached 18 years of age in the state may register at the address in which they are 'ordinarily resident'. Each November a draft register is published after house-to-house enquiries. The register then comes into force the following February after time for appeals and additions. A supplementary register is published which allows voters to make alterations (usually change of address or becoming 18 years of age) prior to voting day. Postal votes are restricted to certain occupations, students and the disabled or elderly resident away from their home. There is also provision for special voters that are usually physically disabled.\n\nWhile all residents can be registered voting in Ireland depends on citizenship. All residents are entitled to vote in local authority elections. Irish and EU citizens may vote in European parliament elections. Irish and UK citizens may vote in elections to Dáil Éireann. Only Irish citizens may vote in elections for the President and in constitutional referendums.\n\nThe electoral register for elections to the six university seats in Seanad Éireann is maintained by the National University of Ireland and University of Dublin. Irish citizens that are graduates of these universities over 18 years of age may register. Voting is by postal vote and residence in the state is not required.\n\nElectoral rolls have been used in New Zealand since the late nineteenth century, and some are available in public libraries for genealogical research. Traditionally, the Māori indigenous people have had separate electoral registration; electoral rolls for the Māori were introduced in 1948. In 1975 electors of Māori descent were given the choice of whether to register on the Maori or \"general\" electoral registers, a choice which allows those who wish for the former to vote for MPs from Māori electorates.\n\nWithin the jurisdiction of the United Kingdom, the right to register for voting extends to all British, Irish, Commonwealth and European Union citizens. British citizens living overseas may register for up to 15 years after they were last registered at an address in the UK. Citizens of the European Union (who are not Commonwealth citizens or Irish citizens) can vote in European and local elections in the UK, elections to the Scottish Parliament and Welsh and Northern Ireland Assemblies (if they live in those areas) and some referendums (based on the rules for the particular referendum); they are not able to vote in UK Parliamentary general elections. It is possible for someone to register before their 18th birthday as long as they will reach that age before the next revision of the register.\n\nThe register is compiled for each polling district, and held by the electoral registration office. In the United Kingdom, this office is located at the local council (district, borough, or unitary level). In Scotland, the offices are sometimes located with councils, but may also be separate. Northern Ireland has a central Electoral Office run by the government.\n\nAt present, the register is compiled by sending an annual canvas form to every house (a process introduced by Representation of the People Act 1918). A fine of up to £1,000 (level 3 on the Standard scale) can be imposed for giving false information. Up to 2001, the revised register was published on 15 February each year, based on a qualifying date of 10 October, and a draft register published on 28 November the previous year. From 2001 as a result of the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000, the annual 'revised' register is published on 1 December, although it is possible to update the register with new names each month between January and September.\n\nThe register has two formats. The full version of the register is available for supervised inspection by anyone, by legal right. It is this register that is used for voting and its supply and use is limited by law. Copies of this register are available to certain groups and individuals, such as credit reference agencies and political parties.\n\nAn 'edited' or 'open' version of the register, which omits those people who have chosen to 'opt out', can be purchased by anyone for any purpose. Some companies provide online searchable access to the edited register for a fee.\n\nThe Information Commissioner's Office, Electoral Commission, Local Government Association and the Association of Electoral Administrators have called for the abolition of the edited register. The organisations believe that the register should only be used for purposes related to elections and referendums and that the sale of voters' personal details is a practice that may discourage people from registering to vote. The Political and Constitutional Reform Select Committee recommended the abolition of the edited register in its report on the Government’s proposals for individual electoral registration and other electoral administration provisions. Other organisations, including credit reference agencies, debt collection agencies and direct marketing companies have argued for the retention of the edited register. However, notwithstanding the above, Mark Harper MP, as Minister for Political and Constitutional Affairs, announced during the committee stage of the Electoral Registration and Administration Bill 2012-13 on 25 June 2012 that the edited register will be retained.\n\nThe full register contains the following information:\n\nA 'Marked Register' is a copy of the register that has a mark by the name of each elector who has voted. It serves as the record of who has voted in the election, and it is kept for a year after the election. After an election anyone can inspect the marked register, and certain people can purchase a copy of it. The marked register does not indicate who electors voted for, nor does it contain ballot paper numbers.\n\nPlans for a Coordinated Online Register of Electors (CORE) are underway; the intention being to standardise local registers and permit central data access.\n\nIt was suggested that the register data could be taken from the data that was to be held on the proposed Citizen Information Project or on the National Identity Register. In January 2005 the Constitutional Affairs Committee and the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister began a joint inquiry into reforming the registration system. In January 2010 the Identity Documents Act 2010 repealed the Identity Cards Act 2006 which set up the National Identity Register.\n\nDespite widespread calls for its introduction, the Electoral Administration Act 2006 did not provide for individual elector registration, on the justification that registration levels would fall. However, the Political Parties and Elections Act 2009 introduced a move from a system of household registration to a system of individual electoral registration in Great Britain.\n\nIn the United States electoral rolls are commonly referred to as poll books. They have been used since the founding to determine voting eligibility. Today, poll books are a list of persons who are eligible to vote in an election. In the United States, the roll is usually managed by a local entity such as a county or parish. However, the data used for electoral rolls may be provided by statewide sources. While traditional poll books are printed voter rolls, more recently electronic pollbooks have come into favor. Computerized electoral rolls allow for larger numbers of voters to be handled easily and allows for more flexibility in poll locations and the electoral process.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4090674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4090674", "title": "Extra-parliamentary opposition", "text": "Extra-parliamentary opposition\n\nAn extra-parliamentary opposition is a political movement opposed to a ruling government or political party that chooses not to engage in elections. Many social movements could be categorized as an extra-parliamentary opposition. \n\nThe German New Left movement \"Außerparlamentarische Opposition\" (APO, Extraparliamentary Opposition) is one of the best known examples of this phenomenon. The APO challenged the grand coalition of the Social Democratic Party and the Christian Democratic Union, which controlled 95 percent of the seats in the Bundestag between 1966 and 1969.\n\nThe Italian Far Left movement Lotta Continua (LC - Continuous Struggle) is one of the best known examples of this phenomenon in Italy.\n\nThe Argentine center-left Radical Civic Union was an extra-parliamentary opposition from 1904 to 1916, when the first secret and compulsory ballot took place.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1697564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1697564", "title": "Fishing Party (Australia)", "text": "Fishing Party (Australia)\n\nThe Fishing Party (TFP) is a minor Australian political party whose primary support base is found among recreational fishers. The party was founded by Robert Smith in July 2000 and it has branches in several Australian states. It is headquartered in Singleton, New South Wales (NSW).\n\nThe party’s major platform is the challenging of laws which it considers to be inappropriate to recreational fishing practices. The party’s motto is 'I fish I vote'. TFP has protectionist leanings, in that it wishes to control risk to flora and fauna from infections carried by imports. It sees itself as an 'environmentalist' group with a priority on management and access rather than preservation. It therefore seeks to promote sustainable recreational fishing, with an emphasis on humans as being part of the eco-system, not apart from it.\n\nAfter enlisting 500 members, the party achieved federal official party status on 25 September 2001. On enlisting 750 members, it achieved NSW official party status on 29 January 2002. On 10 March 2004 the Queensland branch was launched, and on 13 May 2004 the Victorian branch came into being. The Fishing Party (Queensland branch) (TFPQ) achieved party registration in 2006, but not until after the 2006 Queensland State election. Nevertheless, the TFP(Qld) endorsed four candidates as independents, and they averaged 8% of the vote, within their respective electorates. The Qld party broke away from the NSW based Federal organisation, using the deregistration of all small parties to register a new name and attempt to widen its appeal and voter base and is now registered with the AEC as Australian Fishing & Lifestyle Party and no longer has any connection with the Fishing Party. This registration is a current matter before the Administrative Appeals Tribunal and the federal court.\n\nThe federal party membership comes from NSW, Queensland, Victoria, South Australia, Australian Capital Territory, Western Australia and Tasmania.\n\nThe Fishing Party contested their first NSW election in 2003 and in March 2007 campaigned heavily with their preferences responsible to oust the Australian Liberal Party in the seat of Port Stephens on Marine Park regulations. The party contested both those Upper House elections and gained 1.5% of votes for the Legislative Council (Upper House). The party has not achieved parliamentary representation. The party has also contested the federal elections of 2001, 2004 and 2007 in the House of Representatives and the Senate, and local government council ballots\n\nFounder Robert Smith is a past Australian Anglers Association President General, and is the President of the NSW Fishing Clubs' Association.\n\nRobert Smith contested the 2008 Lyne by-election, receiving about 3.5 per cent of the vote.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "287872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=287872", "title": "Flash mob", "text": "Flash mob\n\nA flash mob (or flashmob) is a group of at least 10 people who assemble suddenly in a public place, perform an unusual and seemingly pointless act for a brief time, then quickly disperse, often for the purposes of entertainment, satire, and artistic expression. Flash mobs are organized via telecommunications, social media, or viral emails.\n\nThe term, coined in 2003, is generally not applied to events and performances organized for the purposes of politics (such as protests), commercial advertisement, publicity stunts that involve public relation firms, or paid professionals. In these cases of a planned purpose for the social activity in question, the term smart mobs is often applied instead.\n\nThe term \"flash rob\" or \"flash mob robberies\", a reference to the way flash mobs assemble, has been used to describe a number of robberies and assaults perpetrated suddenly by groups of teenage youth. Bill Wasik, originator of the first flash mobs, and a number of other commentators have questioned or objected to the usage of \"flash mob\" to describe criminal acts.\n\nThe first flash mobs were created in Manhattan in 2003, by Bill Wasik, senior editor of \"Harper's Magazine\". The first attempt was unsuccessful after the targeted retail store was tipped off about the plan for people to gather. Wasik avoided such problems during the first successful flash mob, which occurred on June 17, 2003 at Macy's department store, by sending participants to preliminary staging areas—in four Manhattan bars—where they received further instructions about the ultimate event and location just before the event began.\n\nMore than 130 people converged upon the ninth floor rug department of the store, gathering around an expensive rug. Anyone approached by a sales assistant was advised to say that the gatherers lived together in a warehouse on the outskirts of New York, that they were shopping for a \"love rug\", and that they made all their purchase decisions as a group. Subsequently, 200 people flooded the lobby and mezzanine of the Hyatt hotel in synchronized applause for about 15 seconds, and a shoe boutique in SoHo was invaded by participants pretending to be tourists on a bus trip.\n\nWasik claimed that he created flash mobs as a social experiment designed to poke fun at hipsters and to highlight the cultural atmosphere of conformity and of wanting to be an insider or part of \"the next big thing\". \"The Vancouver Sun\" wrote, \"It may have backfired on him ... [Wasik] may instead have ended up giving conformity a vehicle that allowed it to appear nonconforming.\" In another interview he said \"the mobs started as a kind of playful social experiment meant to encourage spontaneity and big gatherings to temporarily take over commercial and public areas simply to show that they could\".\n\nIn 19th-century Tasmania, the term \"flash mob\" was used to describe a subculture consisting of female prisoners, based on the term \"flash language\" for the jargon that these women used. The 19th-century Australian term \"flash mob\" referred to a segment of society, not an event, and showed no other similarities to the modern term \"flash mob\" or the events it describes.\n\nIn 1973, the story \"Flash Crowd\" by Larry Niven described a concept similar to flash mobs. With the invention of popular and very inexpensive teleportation, an argument at a shopping mall—which happens to be covered by a news crew—quickly swells into a riot. In the story, broadcast coverage attracts the attention of other people, who use the widely available technology of the teleportation booth to swarm first that event—thus intensifying the riot—and then other events as they happen. Commenting on the social impact of such mobs, one character (articulating the police view) says, \"We call them flash crowds, and we watch for them.\" In related short stories, they are named as a prime location for illegal activities (such as pickpocketing and looting) to take place.\n\nFlash mobs began as a form of performance art. While they started as an apolitical act, flash mobs may share superficial similarities to political demonstrations. In the 1960s, groups such as the Yippies used street theatre to expose the public to political issues. Flash mobs can be seen as a specialized form of smart mob, a term and concept proposed by author Howard Rheingold in his 2002 book \"\".\n\nThe first documented use of the term \"flash mob\" as it is understood today was in 2003 in a blog entry posted in the aftermath of Wasik's event. The term was inspired by the earlier term \"smart mob\".\n\nFlash mob was added to the 11th edition of the \"Concise Oxford English Dictionary\" on July 8, 2004 where it noted it as an \"unusual and pointless act\" separating it from other forms of smart mobs such as types of performance, protests, and other gatherings. Also recognized noun derivatives are flash mobber and flash mobbing. \"Webster's New Millennium Dictionary of English\" defines \"flash mob\" as \"a group of people who organize on the Internet and then quickly assemble in a public place, do something bizarre, and disperse.\" This definition is consistent with the original use of the term; however, both news media and promoters have subsequently used the term to refer to any form of smart mob, including political protests; a collaborative Internet denial of service attack; a collaborative supercomputing demonstration; and promotional appearances by pop musicians. The press has also used the term \"flash mob\" to refer to a practice in China where groups of shoppers arrange online to meet at a store in order to drive a collective bargain.\n\nThe city of Brunswick, Germany has stopped flash mobs by strictly enforcing the already existing law of requiring a permit to use any public space for an event. In the United Kingdom, a number of flash mobs have been stopped over concerns for public health and safety. The British Transport Police have urged flash mob organizers to \"refrain from holding such events (silent disco) at railway stations\".\n\nReferred to as \"flash robs\", \"flash mob robberies\", or \"flash robberies\" by the media, crimes organized by teenage youth using social media rose to international notoriety beginning in 2011. The National Retail Federation does not classify these crimes as \"flash mobs\" but rather \"multiple offender crimes\" that utilize \"flash mob tactics\". In a report, the NRF noted, \"multiple offender crimes tend to involve groups or gangs of juveniles who already know \neach other, which does not earn them the term \"flash mob\".\" Mark Leary, a professor of psychology and neuroscience at Duke University, said that most \"flash mob thuggery\" involves crimes of violence that are otherwise ordinary, but are perpetrated suddenly by large, organized groups of people: \"What social media adds is the ability to recruit such a large group of people, that individuals who would not rob a store or riot on their own feel freer to misbehave without being identified.\"\n\n\"HuffPost\" raised the question asking if \"the media was responsible for stirring things up\", and added that in some cases the local authorities did not confirm the use of social media making the \"use of the term flash mob questionable.\" Amanda Walgrove wrote that criminals involved in such activities don't refer to themselves as \"flash mobs\", but that this use of the term is nonetheless appropriate. Dr. Linda Kiltz drew similar parallels between flash robs and the Occupy Movement stating, \"As the use of social media increases, the potential for more flash mobs that are used for political protest and for criminal purposes is likely to increase.\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4741468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4741468", "title": "Forest and Rangeland Renewable Resources Planning Act of 1974", "text": "Forest and Rangeland Renewable Resources Planning Act of 1974\n\nThe Forest and Rangeland Renewable Resources Planning Act of 1974 (or RPA) (P.L. 93-378) is a United States federal law which authorizes long-range planning by the United States Forest Service to ensure the future supply of forest resources while maintaining a quality environment. RPA requires that a renewable resource assessment and a Forest Service plan be prepared every ten and five years, respectively, to plan and prepare for the future of natural resources.\nIt is found in the United States Code at Title 16, Chapter 36.\n\n"}
{"id": "164700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=164700", "title": "Frederick V of the Palatinate", "text": "Frederick V of the Palatinate\n\nFrederick V (; 26 August 1596 – 29 November 1632) was the Elector Palatine of the Rhine in the Holy Roman Empire from 1610 to 1623, and served as King of Bohemia from 1619 to 1620. He was forced to abdicate both roles, and the brevity of his reign in Bohemia earned him the derisive nickname of \"the Winter King\" (Czech: \"Zimní král\"; German: \"Winterkönig\").\n\nFrederick was born at the \"\" (a hunting lodge) near Amberg in the Upper Palatinate. He was the son of Frederick IV and of Louise Juliana of Orange-Nassau, the daughter of William the Silent and Charlotte de Bourbon-Montpensier. An intellectual, a mystic, and a Calvinist, he succeeded his father as Prince-Elector of the Rhenish Palatinate in 1610. He was responsible for the construction of the famous \"Hortus Palatinus\" gardens in Heidelberg.\n\nIn 1618 the largely Protestant estates of Bohemia rebelled against their Catholic King Ferdinand, triggering the outbreak of the Thirty Years' War. Frederick was asked to assume the crown of Bohemia. He accepted the offer and was crowned on 4 November 1619, as Frederick I (; the adjective means \"of Oberpfalz\" or \"of the Upper Palatinate\"). The estates chose Frederick since he was the leader of the Protestant Union, a military alliance founded by his father, and hoped for the support of Frederick's father-in-law, James VI of Scotland and I of England. However, James opposed the takeover of Bohemia from the Habsburgs and Frederick's allies in the Protestant Union failed to support him militarily by signing the Treaty of Ulm (1620). His brief reign as King of Bohemia ended with his defeat at the Battle of White Mountain on 8 November 1620 – a year and four days after his coronation.\n\nAfter this battle, the Imperial forces invaded Frederick's Palatine lands and he had to flee to his uncle Prince Maurice, Stadtholder of the Dutch Republic in 1622. An Imperial edict formally deprived him of the Palatinate in 1623. He lived the rest of his life in exile with his wife and family, mostly at The Hague, and died in Mainz in 1632.\n\nHis eldest surviving son Charles I Louis, Elector Palatine, returned to power in 1648 with the end of the war. Another son was Prince Rupert of the Rhine, one of the most colorful figures of his time. His daughter Princess Sophia was eventually named heiress presumptive to the British throne, and is the founder of the Hanoverian line of kings.\n\nFrederick was born on 26 August 1596 at the \"\" (a hunting lodge) near Amberg in the Upper Palatinate. His father, Frederick IV, was the ruler of Electoral Palatinate; his mother was Louise Juliana of Nassau, the daughter of William I of Orange and Charlotte de Bourbon-Monpensier. Frederick was related to almost all of the ruling families of the Holy Roman Empire and a number of diplomats and dignitaries attended his baptism at Amberg on 6 October 1596. The Palatine Simmerns, a cadet branch of the House of Wittelsbach, were noted for their attachment to Calvinism; this was in marked contrast to the other main line of Wittelsbachs, headed by Duke Maximilian, which was deeply devoted to the Roman Catholic Church.\n\nThe capital of the Palatinate, Heidelberg, was suffering from an outbreak of Bubonic plague at this time, so Frederick spent his first two years in the Upper Palatinate before being brought to Heidelberg in 1598. In 1604, at his mother's urging, he was sent to Sedan to live in the court of his uncle Henri de La Tour d'Auvergne, Duke of Bouillon. During his time at Sedan, Frederick was a frequent visitor to the court of Henry IV of France. His tutor was Calvinist theologian Daniel Tilenus, a professor of theology at the Academy of Sedan. During the Eighty Years' War and the French Wars of Religion, Tilenus called for the unity of Protestant princes, and taught that it was their Christian duty to intervene if their brethren were being harassed. These views are likely to have shaped Frederick's future policies.\n\nOn 19 September 1610, Frederick's father, Frederick IV, died from \"extravagant living\"; his son being 14 years old at the time. Under the terms of the Golden Bull of 1356, Frederick's closest male relative would serve as his guardian and as regent of the Palatinate until Frederick reached the age of majority. However, his nearest male relative, Wolfgang William, Count Palatine of Neuburg, was a Catholic, so, shortly before his death, Frederick IV had named another Wittelsbach, John II, Count Palatine of Zweibrücken, as his son's guardian. Frederick V welcomed John to Heidelberg, whereas Wolfgang William was denied entry. This led to a heated dispute among the princes of the Holy Roman Empire. In 1613, Matthias, Holy Roman Emperor intervened in the dispute, with the result being that Frederick V was able to begin his personal rule in the Palatinate even though he was still underage. The dispute ended in 1614, when Frederick attained his eighteenth birthday. However, much bad blood among the houses was caused by this dispute.\n\nFrederick IV's marriage policy had been designed to solidify the Palatinate's position within the Reformed camp in Europe. Two of Frederick V's sisters were married to leading Protestant princes: his sister Luise Juliane to his one-time guardian John II, Count Palatine of Zweibrücken, and his sister Elizabeth Charlotte to George William, Elector of Brandenburg. Frederick IV had hoped that his daughter Katharina would marry the future Gustavus Adolphus of Sweden, although this never came to pass.\n\nIn keeping with his father's policy, Frederick V sought a marriage to Elizabeth Stuart, daughter of James VI of Scotland and I of England. James had initially considered marrying Elizabeth to Louis XIII of France, but these plans were rejected by his advisors. Frederick's advisors in the Palatinate were worried that if Elizabeth were married to a Catholic prince, this would upset the confessional balance of Europe, and they were thus resolved that she should marry Frederick V. Hans Meinhard von Schönberg, who had served as Frederick V's \"Hofmeister\" since his return to Heidelberg, was sent to London to court the princess in spring 1612. After intense negotiations, a marriage contract was signed on 26 May 1612, over the objection of her mother, Queen Anne.\n\nFrederick travelled to London to collect his bride, landing on English soil on 16 October 1612. Frederick and Elizabeth, who had previously corresponded in French, now met each other for the first time, and got on well together. They were formally engaged in January 1613 and married on 14 February 1613 at the royal chapel at the Palace of Whitehall. The event was celebrated in John Donne's poetic masterpiece \"Epithalamion, or Mariage Song on the Lady Elizabeth, and Count Palatine being married on St. Valentines Day\". Shortly before the ceremony, Frederick was inducted into the Order of the Garter and he wore the Order's chain during the wedding ceremony. Elaborate celebrations, organised by Francis Bacon, followed the ceremony; these included a performance of \"The Masque of the Inner Temple and Gray's Inn\" by Francis Beaumont and \"The Memorable Masque of the Middle Temple and Lincoln's Inn\" by George Chapman.\n\nOn their return trip to Heidelberg, Frederick and Elizabeth travelled to The Hague to visit Maurice of Nassau, Prince of Orange before leaving for Germany on 5 May 1613. The couple entered Heidelberg on 12 June 1613, amidst widespread celebration. Elizabeth was popular with her new subjects, and this popularity grew when, on 1 January 1614, she gave birth to a son, Frederick Henry.\n\nAs part of the marriage negotiations, Frederick had agreed to expand Heidelberg Castle. These renovations were completed in 1615 and the \"Elizabeth Entrance\" to Heidelberg Castle was dedicated.\n\nOne of Frederick's first acts upon taking the reins of government was attendance at a meeting of the Protestant Union, during which he was struck by fever and nearly died. Subsequently contemporaries described him as changed, melancholy and possibly depressed. As such, Frederick transferred much responsibility to his chancellor, Christian I, Prince of Anhalt-Bernburg.\n\nFrederick undertook a large building campaign, designed to glorify his regime. In addition to the renovations to Heidelberg Castle mentioned above, he commissioned a courtyard garden, the \"Hortus Palatinus\", designed by English gardener Inigo Jones and French engineer Salomon de Caus. Frederick was depicted therein as Apollo and as Hercules.\n\nPolitically, Frederick positioned himself as a leader of the Protestant princes in the Holy Roman Empire, and as a defender of the liberty of the German nobles against the Catholic Matthias, Holy Roman Emperor. Since the Peace of Augsburg, the Empire had been delicately balanced between Catholic, Lutheran, and Calvinist principalities (although Calvinism was not recognised in the Peace of Augsburg). The conflicts between princes of these three faiths developed into a deep struggle over the Empire's constitution. Furthermore, the Twelve Years' Truce, a hiatus in the Eighty Years' War, was set to expire in 1621, and was likely to lead to renewed fighting between the Dutch Republic and the Spanish Empire.\n\nWith its central location in Germany, the Palatinate was vulnerable to incursions of imperial troops from the Habsburg hereditary lands. Unlike many principalities of the Holy Roman Empire, the Electoral Palatinate was not a solid dominion, but instead consisted of two unconnected provinces surrounded by foreign lands. The Lower Palatinate centred on Heidelberg, while the Upper Palatinate centred on Amberg. The Lower Palatinate's economy was dominated by agriculture, while the Upper Palatinate was a mining region with one of the most successful economies in Europe.\n\nThe Kingdom of Bohemia was an elective monarchy, and despite being a kingdom, was a part of the Empire. Since 1526, the kings of Bohemia had all been members of the House of Habsburg; since 1555, these kings had also been Holy Roman Emperors. In the early seventeenth century, however, Bohemia faced a political crisis. The Estates of the realm of Bohemia became worried that the Habsburgs were planning to transform Bohemia into an absolute monarchy. A large number of Bohemian nobles were Protestant and feared that a Catholic emperor would attempt to impose Catholicism on Bohemia. Thus, a substantial opposition movement developed to the rule of Rudolf II, Holy Roman Emperor. Rudolf had waged the Long War against the Ottoman Empire from 1593 to 1606. Dissatisfied with the outcome, Rudolf sought to launch a new war against the Ottomans. To gain Bohemian support, Rudolf agreed to guarantee Bohemia's religious liberty, issuing his so-called Letter of Majesty in 1609. Still, the Bohemian nobles remained suspicious of Rudolf and in contact with the Protestant Union.\n\nThe Bohemian Estates elected the Habsburg Matthias as Rudolf's heir, and Matthias became King of Bohemia in 1611 and Emperor in 1612. Yet in the latter year there was discussion within the Protestant Union about fielding a Protestant candidate to supplant Matthias as King of Bohemia, and Frederick's name was discussed in this regard. Strategists in the Palatinate believed that if Frederick became king, this would lead John George I, Elector of Saxony, to break his alliance with the Habsburgs and come fully to the Protestant cause. This assumption proved unfounded.\n\nMeanwhile, the sectarian conflicts in Bohemia continued. In 1617, Matthias prevailed on the Bohemian Estates to elect the Habsburg Ferdinand, Duke of Styria, as heir to the throne of Bohemia. Ferdinand was an intensely loyal Catholic, and many Protestant noblemen believed that Ferdinand intended to withdraw the protections of Rudolf II's Letter of Majesty. These suspicions were further aroused when Imperial officials ordered Protestants to stop erecting Protestant churches on the \"Stifts\", lands held by ecclesiastical lords who were not subject to the Bohemian Estates. The Protestants claimed the status of these lands fell under the term \"royal land\", and thus were subject to Bohemia's authority by the Letter of Majesty – a very disputed legal interpretation which the Austrian government rejected. On 23 May 1618, an assembly of Protestant noblemen, led by Count Jindřich Matyáš Thurn, stormed Prague Castle, and seized two Imperial governors, Vilem Slavata of Chlum and Jaroslav Borzita of Martinice. The rebels charged them with violating the Letter of Majesty, found them guilty, and threw them and their scribe Philip Fabricius out of the windows of the Bohemian Chancellery. This event – known as the Second Defenestration of Prague – marked the beginning of the Bohemian Revolt, and with it, the beginning of the Thirty Years' War.\n\nIn these circumstances Christian I, Prince of Anhalt-Bernburg, Frederick V's governor of the Upper Palatinate, moved to intervene in Bohemia. He did not initially propose nominating Frederick as king because the young elector was still seen as politically inexperienced, and was a Calvinist, while there were virtually no Calvinists in Bohemia. At any rate, Frederick was not initially eager to defy the Emperor, who had praised Frederick's loyalty. Frederick did not publicly break with the Emperor, but in a letter to his father-in-law, James I of England, he placed the blame for the Bohemian vote on the Jesuits and the Spanish party at the Habsburg court. This was a questionable evasion of the role played by Frederick's own agents.\n\nThe first mention in Prague of Frederick's name as a possible candidate as king of Bohemia came in November 1618. It is not known if Frederick's agents played a role in talking up his possible candidacy. Palatine diplomat Christoph von Dohna approached James I of England with the possibility of Frederick becoming king, but James reacted negatively to this idea. The princes of the Protestant Union similarly rejected the idea, fearing it might lead to religious war and the Elector of Saxony was staunchly opposed.\n\nBehind the scenes, Frederick authorised sending a force under Count Ernst von Mansfeld to support the Bohemian rebels. In August 1618, forces under Mansfeld entered Bohemia and led the Siege of Pilsen, which saw Pilsen fall to rebel forces on 21 November 1618, leaving the entire kingdom in Protestant hands.\n\nMatthias, Holy Roman Emperor died on 20 March 1619. Although his successor, the future Emperor Ferdinand II, had previously been crowned King of Bohemia, the Estates of Bohemia now refused to recognise him as their king. Fearing an invasion by Imperial forces, the Estates sought an alliance with the other members of the Lands of the Bohemian Crown (Silesia, Lusatia, Moravia) and on 31 July 1619 at Prague, these states formed the Bohemian Confederacy, dedicated to opposing the Habsburgs; under the terms of this agreement, Protestantism became virtually the state religion of the Bohemian lands. In August 1619, the general parliament of all the Bohemian lands declared that Ferdinand had forfeited the Bohemian throne. This formally severed all ties between Bohemia and the Habsburgs and made war inevitable. Ferdinand of Bavaria, Archbishop of Cologne predicted this decision would lead to twenty, forty, or sixty years of war.\n\nThe preferred candidate of Bohemians as their new king was the Elector of Saxony, but he let it be known he would not accept the throne. This left Frederick as the most senior Protestant prince available, since no one else was willing to risk conflict with the emperor. In August 1619, the chances of Frederick becoming King of Bohemia became greater when Gabriel Bethlen launched an anti-Habsburg revolt in Royal Hungary. This was also precisely the period when Ferdinand was travelling to Frankfurt for his coronation.\n\nOn 26 August 1619, the states of the Bohemian Confederacy elected Frederick as the new King of Bohemia, Frederick receiving news of his election on 29 August in Amberg.\n\nTwo days later, Ferdinand II was elected Holy Roman Emperor. Frederick was the only elector who voted against Ferdinand; even the Protestant prince-electors John George I of Saxony and John Sigismund of Brandenburg adhered to the tradition of supporting the Habsburg Imperial candidate. The electoral college also condemned the Bohemian Confederation's attempt to remove Ferdinand from the throne of Bohemia and declared that the 1617 vote of the Estates of Bohemia, making Ferdinand King of Bohemia, was binding.\n\nFrederick's decision to accept the Bohemian crown has been the subject of much historical speculation. Later Catholic propaganda, in a view accepted by Friedrich Schiller, portrayed the decision as based mainly on Elizabeth Stuart's desire to be a queen. More recently, historians have concluded that Frederick's decision was based primarily on a sense of his duty to fellow Protestants, although Frederick wavered between his duty to the emperor and his sense of duty to his religious brethren. There also seems to have been economic considerations: the Upper Palatinate was at that time Europe's center for iron production, while Bohemia was a focal point for the tin and glass trade: Christian I, Prince of Anhalt-Bernburg, told Frederick that a union of the two areas could be commercially advantageous.\n\nOn 12 September 1619, the Protestant Union met at Rothenburg ob der Tauber and called on Frederick not to intervene in Bohemian affairs. Other possible allies – the Dutch Republic, Charles Emmanuel I, Duke of Savoy, and the Republic of Venice – sent letters saying they would not be able to offer Frederick assistance if he accepted the Bohemian offer. Only Gabriel Bethlen offered words of encouragement.\n\nBetween 24 September and 28, Frederick reached his decision \"not to resist the will of the Almighty\" and thus decided to accept the Bohemian crown. The Dutch Republic, the Republic of Venice, Denmark, and Sweden recognised Frederick as King of Bohemia.\n\nOn 29 September 1619, Frederick left Heidelberg for Prague. He travelled through Ansbach, Amberg, Neumarkt, and Waldsassen, where he was met by representatives from the Bohemian Estates. Together, they then travelled through Cheb, Sokolov, Žatec, Louny, and Slaný. Finally on 31 October 1619, Frederick entered Prague, along with 568 people and 100 cars, and was greeted enthusiastically.\n\nFrederick donned the Crown of Saint Wenceslas in St. Vitus Cathedral on 4 November 1619. The coronation was conducted not by the Archbishop of Prague but by the Utraquist administrator of the diocese, Georg Dicastus, and a Protestant elder, Johannes Cyrill von Třebič. The liturgy was modelled on that used at the coronation of Charles IV, with only a few parts altered. The litany was sung – per the Catholic tradition – rather than spoken as was normally done by the Calvinists. Frederick was anointed with little objection. At the end of the coronation, the Estates paid homage to Frederick.\n\nAlthough a large part of the country was already devastated by war, and many refugees were encamped in the town, the coronation was celebrated with lavish parties.\n\nFrederick assumed a weak crown and a state torn with internal divisions. The state's finances had been disrupted for years, and, at any rate, Bohemian kings had only very limited ability to raise funds, being primarily dependent on the goodwill of the nobility and the tax allocations of the diets. The Protestant nobles felt that higher taxes were necessary to pay for war against the German Catholic League, but the country already felt overburdened in the wake of the Long War. Further limiting Frederick's ability to manoeuvre was the need to distribute royal bounty to supporters in order to ensure their loyalty to his regime.\n\nIn Prague, Frederick soon came to be alienated from a portion of the nobility and the clergy. Neither Frederick nor his wife spoke Czech, so court offices were staffed primarily with foreigners, while the administration of the localities was left to the local nobles. This made an alliance of the royal family with the corporate bodies of the realm difficult.\n\nFurther alienation was caused by Frederick V's court preacher, Abraham Scultetus, who was determined to use his new post to advance the cause of Calvinism in Bohemia. The Utraquist churches had retained the use of relics and images in church, but Scultetus now launched an iconoclastic crusade against images: beginning on 21 December 1619, images were removed from St. Vitus Cathedral, and on 27–28 December, a famous altarpiece by Lucas Cranach the Younger depicting the Virgin Mary was destroyed. There was even a rumour that the grave of St. Wenceslaus was to be desecrated. Scultetus' iconoclasm was deeply unpopular, and Frederick attempted to distance himself from it, claiming that his orders were not being carried out by his followers.\n\nThe nickname \"The Winter King\" appeared shortly after the beginning of Frederick's reign and our first printed reference using the term came in a 1619 Imperial pamphlet that presented the phrase in the context of a royal chronogram. Frederick's propagandists attempted to respond to the phrase by arguing that Frederick was in fact a \"Winter Lion\" who defended the crown of Bohemia against troublemakers and liars, and that he would also be a \"Summer Lion.\"\n\nMeanwhile, Ferdinand II rallied his forces against Frederick. On 21 October 1619, he signed a treaty with Maximilian, Duke of Bavaria, leader of the Catholic League. This treaty provided that Maximilian would be commander of the forces against Frederick, promised that Maximilian would retain all of the occupied Bohemian lands for himself and that he would be granted Frederick's electoral title as well. The Emperor was also able to obtain the support of Elector John George I of Saxony; John George's court preacher, Matthias Hoe von Hoenegg, encouraged the Emperor to smash Frederick and the Bohemians.\n\nFrederick's chancellor, Christian of Anhalt, urged Frederick to call a meeting of Protestant princes at Nuremberg in December 1619. This conference was a fiasco, as few princes bothered to send representatives. John George of Saxony declined to send a representative. Those who did attend half-heartedly promised to secure Frederick's Rhineland territories during Frederick's absence in Bohemia.\n\nIn March 1620, during a meeting of the Imperial party at Mulhouse, Frederick despatched a legal defense of his actions. He argued that he had not broken the imperial peace because Bohemia was located outside of the Holy Roman Empire and there was not, therefore, a conflict between an imperial prince and the emperor. Frederick argued that it would therefore be illegal for Ferdinand to use imperial power against him. This meeting, which included John George of Saxony and Maximilian of Bavaria, rejected Frederick's argument, finding that Bohemia was an indivisible part of the Empire.\n\nOn 1 April 1620, the Imperial party issued an ultimatum calling on Frederick to leave Bohemia by 1 June. If Frederick did not comply by this date, Ferdinand threatened to use force to enforce his right as Holy Roman Emperor and rightful King of Bohemia to overthrow the usurper.\n\nA little later, John George of Saxony signed a treaty with Ferdinand in which Ferdinand guaranteed the practice of Lutheranism in Bohemia and recognized the secular areas in the Netherlands. Ferdinand also agreed to give John George Lusatia, thus cementing John George's dominance of the Upper Saxon Circle.\n\nThis was the context when the parliament of the Bohemian Confederacy met on 25 March 1620. Frederick called for massive tax increases and conscription to fight the impending Imperial threat. To raise money for the Bohemian forces, Frederick used his private funds, pawned his jewels and, in May 1620, drove the Palatinate into insolvency when he decided to move two tons of gold to Bohemia.\n\nBad news continued to arrive for Frederick. James VI of Scotland and I of England refused to support his son-in-law militarily. The Netherlands sent only a small force and promised only 50,000 florins a month for Frederick. Worst of all for Frederick, on 3 July 1620, the Protestant Union signed the Treaty of Ulm (1620), thereby withdrawing their support for Frederick and declaring neutrality in the conflict between Frederick and the Catholic League.\n\nWith the signing of the Treaty of Ulm Ambrogio Spinola, 1st Marquis of the Balbases, began raising Imperial troops in the Spanish Netherlands and in the Alsace region.\n\nIn early August 1620, 25,000 troops, under the command of Spinola, marched into Bohemia. In the third week of August, they shifted their focus and marched into the nearly unarmed Electoral Palatinate, occupying Mainz. The Electoral Palatinate was defended by only 2,000 English volunteers and the country was easily taken. Imperial troops set up camp in Frankenthal and Mannheim. Spinola crossed the Rhine on 5 September 1620 and proceeded to capture Bad Kreuznach on 10 September and Oppenheim on 14 September. From Bohemia, Frederick was powerless to stop the occupation of his ancestral homeland.\n\nAfter capturing Linz, Upper Austria, Maximilian, Duke of Bavaria crossed the Bohemian border on 26 September 1620. At Rokycany, Maximilian's forces first met with the 15,000 ragtag, poorly paid, poorly equipped troops that Frederick had managed to raise. Frederick visited his army on 28 September 1620, but, lacking a military background, left the conduct of the war to his generals. Frederick focused his attention on organizing supplies and preparing fortifications.\n\nAfter a series of skirmishes, on 5 November 1620, Frederick drew his forces back towards Prague and Imperial troops followed them. On 7 November, Bohemian forces determined to make a stand at White Mountain, just outside Prague. The day before King Frederick had ridden down the lines, and exhorted the soldiers. He then rushed to Prague to implore the Bohemian Estates to raise money for his troops and to receive the envoys of the English king. However, it was too late. When, on 8 November 1620, Frederick wanted to ride back to the troops, he was met at the gate of Prague by fleeing soldiers of his army and his chancellor, Anhalt, who informed him of the disaster: the Bohemian army had received a crushing defeat that morning in the Battle of White Mountain.\n\nAnhalt could recommend only one option to Frederick: immediate flight. As such, on 9 November, Frederick fled to the Silesian capital of Breslau, along with his wife and child, some advisers, and not much more baggage than the Bohemian Crown Jewels.\n\nMaximilian took Prague shortly after Frederick's departure. From Silesia, Frederick wanted to plan revenge for the Battle of White Mountain, but the Silesian Estates refused to support this project, and he was forced to leave Silesia in early 1621.\n\nContemporary pamphleteers – both Catholic and Protestant – were merciless in their portrayal of Frederick's flight from Prague. After Frederick's Garter was found in Prague, pamphleteers routinely portrayed him with his stockings falling down.\n\nOn 21 January 1621, Ferdinand issued a decree against Frederick and Anhalt, accusing them of breach of peace, supporting rebels, and treason. Ferdinand decreed that Frederick's lands and titles within the Holy Roman Empire were now forfeited. On 6 February 1621, representatives of the Protestant Union met with Ferdinand at Heilbronn to protest, but they soon agreed to support the settlement in the Palatinate, and the Palatinate remained occupied by Spanish troops. At this point, the Protestant Union had essentially ceased to exist.\n\nThe Twelve Years' Truce ended on 9 April 1621. On 14 April, Frederick joined his wife at The Hague. The Dutch Republic and Frederick signed a contract in which he accepted the support of the Netherlands for the reconquest of his dominions.\n\nIn Bohemia, the crushing of the Bohemian Revolt had terrible consequences. Twenty-eight Bohemian nobles were killed in the Old Town Square executions on 21 June 1621. Afterwards, the heads of twelve nobles, along with the hand of Joachim Andreas von Schlick, were nailed to the Old Town Tower of Charles Bridge, where they remained for ten years. The elective monarchy was now abolished; the role of the Estates greatly curtailed; and the Letter of Majesty was torn by Ferdinand himself. Only Lutheranism remained tolerated in Bohemia, and in the coming years, the rest of the population would be actively re-Catholicized. Bohemia would remain part of the Habsburg Monarchy until 1918.\n\nIn summer 1621, John II, Count Palatine of Zweibrücken, Frederick's former guardian who had served as regent of the Electoral Palatinate when Frederick left for Prague, resigned.\n\nHowever, Ernst von Mansfeld continued to occupy a portion of the Upper Palatinate and had successfully resisted efforts by Johann Tserclaes, Count of Tilly to dislodge him. Mansfeld crossed into the Rhenish Palatinate in early 1622, and on 21 April 1622, Frederick joined Mansfeld there. Frederick attempted to convince other Protestant princes to reconstitute the Protestant Union, but met with limited success. Frederick's cause was boosted by a 27 April 1622 victory over Tilly's forces at the Battle of Wiesloch, but this boost was short lived. Frederick's forces under the command of Georg Friedrich, Margrave of Baden-Durlach were defeated at the Battle of Wimpfen on 6 May 1622; and then forces under Christian the Younger of Brunswick were soundly defeated at the Battle of Höchst on 20 June 1622.\n\nFrederick was increasingly under Mansfeld's influence at this time, and was growing disillusioned with the Protestant cause. With Frederick's knowledge, Mansfeld raided Darmstadt and captured Louis V, Landgrave of Hesse-Darmstadt and his son Johann as hostages. This was clearly a violation of Imperial law, and cost Frederick whatever remaining sympathy he still had in Europe. During his retreat into Alsace, Mansfeld burned a city and thirty villages.\n\nFrederick dismissed Mansfeld after he became convinced he would be unable to reconquer his hereditary lands. Frederick then spent the summer with his uncle, Henri de La Tour d'Auvergne, Duke of Bouillon, in Sedan.\n\nShortly thereafter, troops under Tilly and Gonzalo Fernández de Córdoba completed the Spanish conquest of the Electoral Palatinate. After an eleven-week siege, Heidelberg fell on 19 September 1622; Mannheim similarly fell on 5 November 1622. Only the British garrison in Frankenthal now held out. After the conquest of Heidelberg, the Protestant churches were closed, the university was closed, and at the request of Maximilian, the great library, the famous \"Bibliotheca Palatina\" (3500 manuscripts), was presented as a gift of thanks to Pope Gregory XV in appreciation of the 620,000 guilders he had provided for financing the campaigns of the Catholic League.\n\nOn 23 February 1623, Ferdinand II, Holy Roman Emperor awarded Frederick's electoral title to Maximilian of Bavaria, who now became Maximilian I, Elector of Bavaria. Maximilian was also awarded the conquered territory of Upper Palatinate as a fief. Other territories of the Electoral Palatinate (Parkstein, Weiden in der Oberpfalz, and Peilstein im Mühlviertel) were awarded to Wolfgang William, Count Palatine of Neuburg.\n\nIn late 1622 and early 1623, Frederick organised a Palatinate government-in-exile at The Hague. This Palatinate Council was headed by Ludwig Camerarius.\n\nDuring the negotiations for the Spanish Match, Frederick urged his father-in-law not to go through with the Match.\n\nThere were attempts at reconciling Frederick with the emperor in 1624–25 and in 1627, but these came to naught. Frederick was willing to compromise with the emperor, but he wanted the restoration of his lands and electoral title, and the emperor was not inclined to restore these to Frederick. Frederick held out some hope that his lands might be retaken militarily, but these hopes were crushed on 27 August 1626, when the forces of Christian IV of Denmark were crushed by Tilly at the Battle of Lutter.\n\nFrederick left most of the day-to-day business of his government-in-exile to his counselors, although he did take some interest in his finances. Frederick was very stingy in funding his administration, and yet, in order to maintain the dignity of a royal court, he spent vast sums on building and entertainment, quickly blowing through donations from the English and Dutch governments. For example, in 1629, Frederick commissioned Bartholoeus van Bassen to build him a large winter palace in Rhenen. When completed in 1631, this palace had a large central residence, a courtyard, a two-storey main building with two wings projecting to the south, and was surrounded by large gardens. Frederick spent much of his time there in hunting and long walks.\n\nFrederick suffered a personal tragedy on 17 January 1629. He was traveling to Amsterdam to view the Spanish treasure fleet captured by the Dutch West India Company when his boat capsized while crossing the Haarlemmermeer, a body of water near Haarlem. Frederick survived the accident, but his eldest son, the fifteen-year-old Frederick Henry of the Palatinate, did not. Frederick himself sustained serious physical injuries in the accident, and would not fully recover for 15 months.\n\nAt the Diet of Regensburg (1630), Frederick formally petitioned to be forgiven for having accepted the crown of Bohemia and admitted his wrongdoing. But nothing came of this. In March 1631, Frederick despatched diplomat Sir Robert Anstruther to hold discussions with Ernst Egon VIII, Count of Fürstenberg, president of the Imperial Privy Council, about restoring Frederick's lands, but Frederick died before these could bear any fruit.\n\nOn 4 July 1630, Gustavus Adolphus of Sweden intervened in the Thirty Years' War. On 16 September 1631, Gustavus Adolphus' forces defeated Tilly's forces at the Battle of Breitenfeld (1631). Tilly was defeated the following year, and Gustavus Adolphus' forces swept into southern Germany. When Oppenheim was captured in December 1631, Frederick believed the time was ripe for him to reestablish himself in the Palatinate, and he left for Heidelberg.\n\nIn February 1632, Frederick met Gustavus Adolphus at Frankfurt, with Gustavus Adolphus paying Frederick full royal honours. However, Gustavus Adolphus was not prepared to offer Frederick support for restoring him in the Palatinate because England and the Netherlands had not signed off on such a proposal.\n\nFrederick subsequently took part in Gustavus Adolphus' march into the Duchy of Bavaria, and was present for the march into Munich on 17 May 1632. Upon Frederick's pressing his case with Gustavus Adolphus, Gustavus Adolphus told Frederick that he would accept Frederick's restoration without Dutch/British support only if Frederick would agree to hold the Palatinate as a fief of the King of Sweden. The lands of the Palatinate were simply too important strategically for Gustavus Adolphus to hand them over to Frederick. Gustavus Adolphus also insisted that Frederick would have to agree to establish equal rights for Lutherans in his territories. Frederick refused Gustavus Adolphus' conditions and they parted, with Frederick travelling to Swedish-occupied Mainz, intending to return to The Hague.\n\nGustavus Adolphus was killed at the Battle of Lützen (1632) on 16 November 1632. About this time, the English finally determined to send an expeditionary force to participate in the Thirty Years' War. Unfortunately for Frederick, it was too late. Beginning in October 1632, he had suffered from an infection that got worse in the following weeks. The famed physician Peter Spina was summoned from Darmstadt to Mainz, but nothing could be done for Frederick. Frederick died on the morning of 29 November 1632, of a \"pestilential fever\".\n\nFrederick's son and heir, Charles Louis, was only 15 years old. Therefore, Frederick's brother (Charles Louis' uncle), Ludwig Philipp, Louis Philip, Count Palatine of Simmern-Kaiserslautern, served as regent. Frederick's internal organs were buried at St. Catherine's in Oppenheim and his embalmed body was taken to Frankenthal. On 9 June 1635, with Spanish troops approaching, Ludwig Philipp of Pfalz-Simmern-Kaiserslautern fled to Kaiserslautern with Frederick's body. It is believed that Ludwig Philipp of Pfalz-Simmern-Kaiserslautern transferred Frederick's body to the Sedan in September 1637, but Frederick's final resting place is unknown.\n\nHe married Elizabeth Stuart, the daughter of James VI of Scotland and I of England and of Anne of Denmark in the Chapel Royal, Whitehall on 14 February 1613 and had the following children:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6077370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6077370", "title": "Freikorps in the Baltic", "text": "Freikorps in the Baltic\n\nAfter 1918, the term Freikorps was used for the anti-communist paramilitary organizations that sprang up around the German Empire, including in the Baltic states, as soldiers returned in defeat from World War I. It was one of the many Weimar paramilitary groups active during that time.\n\nIn 1918 the Russian Bolsheviks ceded the Baltic areas to Germany under the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk. The Imperial German government established occupation governments in Estonia and Latvia and granted independence to a puppet government in Lithuania on March 25, 1918. The German Ober Ost occupation authorities under command of Prince Leopold of Bavaria favored the Baltic Germans, who had been the dominant social, economic, and political class in Courland, Livonia, and Estonia since the 13th century. On March 8 and April 12, 1918 the local Baltic German-dominated Land Council of Courland and the United Land Council of Livonia, Estonia, Riga and Ösel had declared themselves independent states, known as the Duchy of Courland and the Baltic State (\"Baltischer Staat\"), respectively. Both states proclaimed themselves to be in personal union with Prussia, although the German government never responded and acknowledged that claim.\n\nThe Baltic lands were nominally recognized as a sovereign state by Kaiser Wilhelm II on September 22, 1918, half a year after the newly Soviet Russia had formally relinquished all authority over its former Imperial Baltic provinces in the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk. On November 5, 1918, a temporary Regency Council (\"Regentschaftsrat\") for the United Baltic Duchy, led by Baron Adolf Pilar von Pilchau, was formed on a joint basis from the two local Land Councils.\n\nUnder the terms of the November 11, 1918 Armistice the German Army was required to withdraw its troops from all other countries on a timetable established by the Allied Control Commission. As elsewhere, pro-socialist Soldiers' Councils controlled many German troop units in the Baltic area, but the Allied Control Commission insisted that the German troops remain to prevent the region from occupation by the Russian Red Army. The Red Army, led by the Latvian Riflemen, was making serious inroads into Estonia and Latvia. The Estonians offered tough resistance to the Red Army and refused to ask for, or accept, German Army support. Instead, Scandinavian soldiers from Finland, Sweden and Denmark came to their support. The Estonians, with this help and naval support from the British, were able to prevail over the Red Army after a year-long fight.\nMeanwhile, the Latvian People's Council (Tautas Padome) proclaimed Latvia's independence from Russia on November 18, 1918. Latvian leader Kārlis Ulmanis requested German Freikorps support for assistance against the Bolsheviks. The British observer, General Sir Hubert Gough, invoked Article 12 of the Armistice Agreement, which provided that German troops must evacuate all territories belonging to the Russian Empire, but only \"as soon as the Allies shall consider this desirable, having regard to the interior conditions of these territories.\"\n\nAs many of the demoralized German soldiers were being withdrawn from Latvia, Major Josef Bischoff, an experienced German officer, formed a Freikorps unit called the Eiserne Brigade (translated: \"Iron Brigade\"). This unit was deployed to Riga and used to delay the Red Army advance. Meanwhile, volunteers were recruited from Germany, with promises of land, a chance to fight Bolshevism, and other enticements of dubious veracity. These soldiers, along with remnants of the German 8th Army and the Eiserne Brigade, were reconstituted into the Eiserne (Iron) Division. Also, the Baltic Germans and some Latvians formed the Baltische Landeswehr. The official mission assigned to this force was to prevent any Red Army advance into East Prussia, but its real mission was to help the Baltic Germans re-establish their own state or dominance in Latvia.\n\nInitially, the Iron Division was commanded by Bischoff, and the Baltische Landeswehr by Major Alfred Fletcher, a German of Scottish ancestry. In late February, only the seaport of Liepāja and surroundings remained in the hands of the German and Latvian forces. In March 1919, the Iron Brigade helped the German detachments win a series of victories over the Red forces. The main blow in the campaign was delivered by the \"Baltische Landeswehr\", which first occupied the port of Ventspils and then drove south to Riga. This attack appears to have been coordinated with the Estonians who drove the Bolsheviks from the northern part of Latvia.\n\nThe Allies ordered the German government to withdraw its troops from the Baltic after defeat of Bolsheviks. The German forces attempted to seize control of Latvia with the assistance of the local ethnic German population. On April 16 he organised a coup d'état in Liepāja, the provisional national government of Latvia took refuge aboard steamship \"Saratow\". A new puppet government headed by Pastor Andrievs Niedra was proclaimed. Pastor Niedra was a Latvian Lutheran minister with pro-German sympathies. The Germans convinced the British to postpone the withdrawal of the German Freikorps units because this would give the Bolsheviks a free hand. Britain backed down after recognizing the gravity of the military situation, and the Freikorps moved on and captured Riga on May 23, 1919.\n\nAfter the capture of Riga, the Freikorps were accused of killing 300 Latvians in Jelgava, 200 in Tukums, 125 in Daugavgrīva, and over 3,000 in Riga. The Latvian nationalists had turned against the German Freikorps and sought assistance from the Estonian troops who had occupied Latvian territory north of the Daugava River. The German forces advanced north towards the Latvian city of Cēsis. The objective of the German forces had now clearly become the establishment of German supremacy in the Baltic by eliminating the Estonian military and Latvian national units, not the defeat of the Bolsheviks. The Estonian commander General Johan Laidoner insisted the Germans withdraw to a line south of the Gauja river. He also ordered the Estonian 3rd division to seize the Gulbene railroad station.\n\nOn June 19, 1919, the Landeswehr and the Iron Division launched an attack to capture Cēsis. Initially, the Freikorps captured the town of Straupe and continued their advance toward the town of Limbaži. The Estonians launched a counterattack and drove the Freikorps out of the town. On June 21, the Estonians received reinforcements and immediately attacked the Landeswehr under Fletcher, who was forced to withdrawn from an area to the northeast of Cēsis. The Iron Division attacked from Straupe towards Stalbe in an effort to relieve pressure on the Landeswehr. On the morning of June 23, the Germans began a general retreat toward Riga.\n\nThe Allies again insisted that the Germans withdraw their remaining troops from Latvia, and on June 3 intervened to impose an armistice between Estonia, Latvia, and the Landeswehr and Freikorps when the Latvians and Estonians were about to march into Riga. Major Bischoff created a German Legion from over a dozen Freikorps units and turned the units over to the West Russian Volunteer Army. In all, the Iron Division transferred over 14,000 men, 64 aircraft, 56 artillery pieces, and 156 machine guns. Six cavalry units and a field hospital also went over. The offensive by the reformed German army was subsequently defeated by the Latvian Army, which received assistance from British and French warships and Estonian armoured trains.\n\nThe Freikorps had saved Latvia from capture by the Red Army in the spring of 1919. However, the Freikorps' goal of creating a German dominated state in Courland and Livonia failed. Many of the German Freikorps members who served in the Baltic left Latvia with the belief that they had been \"stabbed in the back\" by the Weimar Republic under president Friedrich Ebert. Hundreds of Baltic Freikorps soldiers had planned to settle in Latvia, and for those who had fought there, the land made a lasting impression and many of them longed for the day that they could return there. The Baltic Freikorps characterized their struggle against the Reds as the \"Drang nach Osten\", (the drive towards the East), and more than one Freikorps unit returned to Germany and planned for the day of their return.\n\nAccording to historian Robert GL Waite, while retreating from the Baltic, discipline amongst the Freikorps broke down and many fighters \"ran wild through the country side marauding in complete disorder\" Ernst von Salomon, who was in a Freikorps, fictionalized it as follows. They drove the Latvians 'like rabbits across the fields'. They burned houses, destroyed bridges and telephone poles. They threw bodies into wells, followed by hand grenades:\n\nReviewing \"The Vanquished: Why The First World War Failed to End, 1917-1923\" by Robert Gerwarth in the Sunday Times (7 August 2016), Max Hastings writes:\n\nSome Freikorps members, like Otto Zeltiņš-Goldfelds, stayed in Latvia, joined the Latvian Army and got citizenship.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2871658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2871658", "title": "Hollaback!", "text": "Hollaback!\n\nHollaback! is a photoblog and grassroots initiative to raise awareness about and combat street harassment by posting photographs and narrative accounts of individuals' encounters. Altogether, Hollaback! is run by local activists in 79 cities, 26 countries, and operates in 14 languages.\n\nIn May 2010, co-founder Emily May became Hollaback!'s first full-time executive director, and the organization successfully raised close to $15,000 on the internet fundraising platform, Kickstarter, to fund the development and release of the Hollaback! iPhone application. Since then, the organization has received funding from New York Women's Foundation, the Ms. Foundation, Voqal, the Knight Foundation, Ashoka, and the New York City Government.\n\nSeven New York City residents, four women and three men, founded the organization in 2005 after a well-publicized occurrence of street harassment prompted them to discuss their own encounters. After being ignored by the police, a woman named Thao Nguyen uploaded a photo she had taken of the man who had masturbated across from her on the subway. This photo appeared on the front page of the New York Daily News, and inspired the seven New York City residents to apply this same method to all forms of street harassment. The women told story after story of their experiences with street harassment, experiences that were surprising to the men in the group because they had never dealt with harassment of that kind. They collectively decided to do something about the issue of street harassment, an issue that affects women, girls, and LGBTQ individuals every day.\n\nHollaback! has held many events around the world designed to raise awareness about street harassment, including film screenings, lectures, demonstrations, and book talks.\n\nOn October 28, 2010, the New York City Council held the first hearing ever on street harassment. Council Member Julissa Ferreras, who chairs the Women's Issues Committee, called the hearing in order to stress the importance of joining forces in order to take action specifically in New York City. Each panelist recommended three steps towards eliminating street harassment: 1) A citywide study, focusing on the impact of street harassment and girls; 2) a citywide public information campaign that educates all genders and ages that harassment is unacceptable is the second point of action proposed; and 3) establishing \"harassment-free zones\" in schools in order to raise awareness and support of the movement. Emily May was among the speakers at the hearing; she encouraged women to speak out against street harassment.\n\nAfter this hearing, New York City legislators invested $28,500 in Hollaback!. This investment gave the organization the infrastructure needed to report street harassment incidents to the New York City Council, via their platform \"Councilstat.\"\n\nAs of August 2012, multiple branches of the Hollaback! blog exist in other U.S. cities including Atlanta, Baltimore, Berkeley, Houston, Des Moines, Chicago, Columbia, Philadelphia and Portland.\n\nIn 2013, the London branch was involved in Project Guardian, a police initiative to reduce sexual harassment on public transport, including assisting in training of police officers to respond to complaints of sexual assaults.\n\nIn January 2011, Hollaback! scaled internationally. As of October 2014, the organization has sites in 79 cities in 26 countries.\n\nPrior to launching a new site, site leaders are first trained by Hollaback! employees so that they will have the skills necessary to operate their own blog. Future site leaders are given the chance to interact with one another and the Hollaback! team, host events, and build partnerships with community members and media outlets. Even after site leaders successfully launch their own branch of the organization, they remain active participants in the Hollaback! community. The various branches work in coalition to further develop the organization, translate the Hollaback! website, and create shared resources. In addition, site leaders receive monthly training in topics ranging from blogging to rape culture to holding events.\n\nHollaback! provides guidance in bystander intervention the form of \"The Five D's\" - Direct, Distract, Delegate, Delay, and Document.\n\nHeartMob is a platform to help end online harassment.\n\nThe Hollaback! \"College Initiative\" is a campaign that aims to end sexual harassment on college campuses. To do this, Hollaback! will give students the means to submit their experiences of harassment through the free iPhone and Droid apps, as well as their campus-specific Hollaback! website, which will link to a mapping system that will allow Hollaback! to track incidents of campus harassment. Hollaback! will use the mapping system to demonstrate the impact of harassment to campus staff and administrators.\n\nWhen victims of harassment share their experiences on the Hollaback! website, their stories are read by hundreds of other people. Reading about incidents of harassment has often inspired individuals to become enraged and seek change. The \"College Initiative,\" like the initial Hollaback! mission, \"will create a safe, action-oriented response to campus harassment and assault. By using data to establish the case against campus harassment, Hollaback!'s social change efforts will ultimately result in significant improvements in campus policy and a reduction in sexual harassment against students.\"\n\nIn October 2014, Rob Bliss Creative created a video which showed Shoshana Roberts, a white woman in New York City, being harassed by men. In one scene, a man followed Shoshana for five minutes. The video included a call to donate to Hollaback! in order to stop this harassment.\n\nWhile 30–40% of the incidents of harassment in the video are perpetrated by white men, men of color are on camera for the largest portion of the video. Numerous writers accused the video of being racist. The organization later apologized for the \"racial bias\" in the video. A petition at change.org was created to ask Hollaback! to release the entire 10 hours of footage, so people can see if it the two-minute video was selectively edited to be racist. Response to the video has included rape and death threats to subject of the video and some journalists defended the behavior shown in the video, in some cases adding catcalls of their own.\n\n"}
{"id": "3579032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3579032", "title": "Illyrian movement", "text": "Illyrian movement\n\nThe Illyrian movement (, ) was a pan-South-Slavist cultural and political campaign with roots in the early modern period, and revived by a group of young Croatian intellectuals during the first half of the 19th century, around the years of 1835–1849 (there is some disagreement regarding the official dates). This movement aimed to create a Croatian national establishment in Austria-Hungary through linguistic and ethnic unity, and through it lay the foundation for cultural and linguistic unification of all South Slavs under the revived umbrella term \"Illyrian\".\n\nAspects of the movement pertaining to the development of Croatian culture are considered in Croatian historiography to be part of the Croatian national revival (\"Hrvatski narodni preporod\").\n\nIn the 19th century, the name \"Illyrian\" was chosen by the members of the movement as a reference to the theory according to which South Slavs descend from ancient Illyrians. Fearing provincial particularism, reformers believed that the Illyrian name would make it easier to implement literary unity.\n\nIn 19th-century Europe, liberalism and nationalism were ideologies which came to the forefront of political culture. In Central Europe, where the Habsburg Empire had long asserted control over a variety of ethnic and cultural groups, nationalism appeared in a standard format. The beginning of the 19th century \"was the period when the smaller, mostly Slavic nationalities of the empire - Czechs, Slovaks, Slovenes, Croats, Serbs, Ukrainians - remembered their historical traditions, revived their native languages as literary languages, reappropriated their traditions and folklore, in short reasserted their existence as nations.\" This revival of national heritage encompasses the Illyrian Movement in Croatia.\n\nIn 1813, the bishop of Zagreb, Maksimilijan Vrhovac, issued a plea for the collection of \"national treasures\" (\"Poziv na sve duhovne pastire svoje biskupije\"), thereby heralding the national revival movement. Influenced by his father Josip, who was the first major in French controlled Karlovac and one of its first Freemasons, Juraj Šporer attempted to publish the first newspaper in the Illyrian language (). His project was aborted because of the complete lack of interest for a newspaper published in his native language.\nJust as Croatia felt nationalistic stirrings at this time, so did its larger neighbors, Hungary and Austria. Croats were uneasy with rising Hungarian nationalism, which pursued reduction of the Croatian autonomy and increased Magyarization. In order to preserve their autonomy, Croats pursued a deepening of their culture and a revival of their heritage.\n\nIn the beginning of the 1830s, a group of young Croatian writers initially led by Ljudevit Gaj gathered in Zagreb and established a movement for national renewal and unity of all South Slavs within the Habsburg Monarchy. The city of Zagreb had become an important center of political, economic, and cultural activity, so it was the center of the movement. Count Janko Drašković published his \"Dissertation\" in 1832, a pamphlet that later came to be considered the political, economic, social and cultural program of the movement, as it promoted the native language as official, more autonomy from central government, and better education and enlightenment for the common people. Gaj served as the leader of the movement as a whole in the beginning for eight or nine years, at which point the leadership changed hands.\n\nThe greatest issue for Illyrians was the establishment of a standard language as a counter-weight to Hungarian, and the promotion of Croatian written literature and official culture. Illyrians envisioned a single literary language and orthography to serve as a means of cultural and national unification, paving the way for a general national revival.\n\nIn 1830 Ljudevit Gaj published \"Kratka osnova horvatsko-slavenskoga pravopisanja\" (\"Brief basics of the Croatian-Slavic orthography\"), which was the first linguistic work to be published during the movement. In it he presented his proposal for a reform of the Illyrian alphabet, which included the introduction of diacritics. This was motivated by the alphabets of other Slavic peoples who wrote in the Latin script (Czechs, Slovaks and Poles), as well as by earlier domestic practices such as the alphabet used by Pavao Ritter Vitezović. After Vitezović's letters \"l̃\" and \"ñ\" Gaj introduced tilde as a diacritic in the letters \"c̃\", \"z̃\", \"s̃\", \"l̃\", \"ñ\", \"d̃\" and \"g̃\". However, for tactical reasons that notation has not been thoroughly applied. Even though the alphabetic reform was originally intended for the speakers of the Kajkavian dialect, in his work Gaj put forward the idea of a common alphabet for all South Slavs using Latin script, which would lay the foundation for the common literary language.\n\nIn 1835 Gaj started publishing \"Novine Horvatzke\" (\"Croatian newspapers\") and \"Danicza Horvatzka, Slavonzka i Dalmatinzka\" in Kajkavian and using old Kajkavian alphabet. But since the very beginning Gaj's magazines also contained pieces from older Štokavian literature, namely Dubrovnikan, to pave the way for the introduction of a common literary language on Štokavian basis. The tenth issue of his \"Danicza\" is already using the new alphabet and Štokavian in some of the published pieces, and since the 29th issue the new alphabet is dominant.\n\nOn December 5, 1835 Gaj published a Proclamation announcing the publication of \"Ilirske narodne novine\" (\"Illyrian folk newspapers\") and \"Danica ilirska\", abandoning old alphabet and introducing the Štokavian dialect. The terminological shift from \"Croatian\" to \"Illyrian\" more accurately reflected the ideological goals of the Illyrian movement, as well as the usage of the Štokavian dialect which was at that period the most widely spoken dialect. Illyrians' goal was to make that language more accessible to the Kajkavian and Čakavian speakers. In that spirit, Gaj's 1835 Proclamation states:\n\nBeside the fundamental Illyirian ethnological notion of South Slavs as the descendants of ancient Illyrians, awareness of national distinctiveness was also present. Thus Gaj writes in 1839 in \"Danica\": \"Our intention is not to abolish individual names, but unify them under a general name, because each of the individual names carries its own individual history, which gathered together comprise a more general history of the Illyrian nation.\" In an attempt to overcome regional fragmentation and achieve unification, followers of the movement promote Illyrian name, making concessions in language and orthography. Drawing on existing literary traditions in three different dialects, and in an attempt to ease the linguistic and cultural unification, Illyrians advocate the usage of some archaic forms in grammar, and some Kajkavian and Čakavian words. Such changes were hoped to be acceptable to everyone using the Illyrian language.\n\nActing on the intention of Illyrians to create a common literary language and orthography for all South Slavs, Gaj in his 1835 article \"Pravopisz\" abandons his original alphabet. Of letters with diacritics, only the letters \"č\", \"ž\", \"š\" and \"ě\" are retained. Due to printing difficulties, carons are used instead of tildes. Digraphs \"lj́\", \"nj́\", \"dj́\" and \"dž\" are used instead of the former \"l̃\", \"ñ\", \"d̃\" and \"g̃\", while what is today's \"ć\" is written as both \"ć\" and \"tj́\". Letter \"j́\" is soon replaced by \"j\". Digraphs with \"j\" were already known from Slavonian alphabet, which was the most widespread alphabet in pre-Illyrian times. The alphabet system introduced by Gaj was used until the late 19th century, when Đuro Daničić finally introduced the letter \"đ\" for \"dj\", and generalized the usage of \"ć\", yielding the modern Croatian alphabet.\n\nWith respect to a set of orthographic issues, Illyrians endorsed the so-called etymological (also called \"morphonological\") orthography, spelling words according to their morphology and etymology. This was opposed to the contemporary phonological orthography \"write as you speak, and speak as you write\" advocated by Vuk Stefanović Karadžić and his followers. Illyrians justified such spellings as being more comprehensible, easier to learn, and reflecting the orthographic practices of other Slavic peoples. They pitted Karadžić's adage against their own: \"speak for the ears, write for the eyes\".\n\nGaj's main associates and followers were Vjekoslav Babukić and Antun Mažuranić. In their linguistic manuals (Babukić's 1836 \"Osnova slovnice slavjanske narěčja ilirskoga\" \"The basics of Slavic grammar of the Illyrian dialect\", extended edition as 1854 \"Slovnica ilirska\" \"Illyrian grammar\"; Mažuranić's 1839 \"Temelji ilirskoga i latinskoga jezika\" \"The foundation of the Illyrian and Latin language\") they were led by the ideological goals of the Illyrian movement, building upon the language supported by the movement's adherents, and which was later advocated by the so-called Zagreb Philological School.\n\nTwo of the most important grammatical traits advocated by Illyrians were old inflectional endings for the dative, locative and instrumental plural of nouns, as well as the ending \"-ah\" in genitive plural of nouns, which earned them a derisive nickname \"Ahavians\" (\"ahavci\"). For example:\n\nA different set of issues were involved in writing reflexes of the Proto-Slavic yat sound, as well as the syllabic /r/. All of the possible yat reflexes (\"i\", \"e\", \"je\" or \"ije\", depending on the dialect) were covered by the letter \"ě\", which was derisively called \"horned e\" (\"rogato e\"). Initially it was suggested that everyone reads \"ě\" according to their local pronunciation, though it would be preferable to publicly pronounce it as [je] or [ije] For syllabic /r/ they were convinced that the pronunciation differs from non-syllabic /r/, so they introduced spelling of the accompanying vowel as well (\"àr\", \"èr\": e.g. \"kàrv\", \"dèrvo\").\n\nAs opposed to the alphabet which is in a slightly modified form used to this day for Croatian, grammatical and orthographic practices advocated by Illyrians provoked resentment and opposition by some contemporaries as well as by future generations of linguists. Illyrians were criticized from different points of view, and their practices were attacked more often individually rather than as a system, and had a different lifespan, eventually suffering the same fate: disappearance from the language. The so-called etymological orthography survived the longest, until the turn of the century.\n\nThe most influential writers within the movement were Ivan Mažuranić and Petar Preradović. Mažuranić contributed his epic \"Smrt Smail-age Čengića\" during this time, and Preradović published love lyrics.\n\nOther notable literary contributions were made by Antun Mihanović (notably \"Horvatska Domovina\" which later became Our Beautiful Homeland), Stanko Vraz (satiric lyrics), Ljudevit Vukotinović (romantic lyrics), Dimitrija Demeter (prose, notably \"Grobničko polje\", and drama), Ivan Kukuljević Sakcinski (prose), Antun Nemčić (prose and itineraries). There was also the first notable itinerary \"Pogled u Bosnu\" by Matija Mažuranić.\n\nAfter the government allowed the publishing of newspapers in Croatian in 1834, the Gaj issued the first Croatian newspaper, \"Novine hrvatsko-slavonsko-dalmatinske\", in 1835, establishing Croatian journalism. The paper was edited by Ljudevit Gaj and it also had a literary magazine \"Danica\" attached, both of which printed in Gaj's \"National print\" (\"Narodna tiskara\"). Each issue of Danica began with the motto \"\"people without a nation/Is like a body without bones\".\" These literary successes \"ultimately won intellectual, linguistic, and educational...independence for Croatia.\"\n\nIn 1836, the papers were renamed to use the Illyrian name (\"Ilirske novine\", \"Danica ilirska\"). In 1838, Janko Drašković helped found a reading room in Zagreb which served as a meeting place for the first \"Illyrians\".\n\nIn another cultural success, in 1846 the composer Vatroslav Lisinski wrote the first opera in Croatian, \"Ljubav i zloba\" (\"Love and malice\").\n\nThe Illyrian movement, while concentrating on Croatian lands, was quite nationally inclusive, as it included many non-Croats. For example, Petar Preradović was an ethnic Serb, as was Josif Runjanin, Stanko Vraz was an ethnic Slovene, and Dimitrija Demetar was either ethnic Greek or Aromanian.\n\nIn 1840, the Illyrian movement suffered an internal setback when Stanko Vraz, Joakim Rakovac and Ljudevit Vukotinović split off from the movement due to creative differences in poetry. In 1842 they started publishing their own literary newspaper named \"Kolo\".\n\nPolitical disputes in the Croatian Sabor were so fierce they caused unrest in the streets of Zagreb. On July 29, 1845, violent clashes erupted at St. Marko's Square, the casualties of which were to become known as the \"July victims\". Notwithstanding these events, Hungarian officials were unable to crush the movement.\nSpeaking in front of the Sabor on 23 October 1847, Ivan Kukuljević Sakcinski advocated Croatian as the official language instead of Latin and the deputies subsequently voted unanimously in favor of said proposition.\n\nThe movement practically ceased to exist due to the Revolutions of 1848. In 1849, the Emperor Francis Joseph imposed a new constitution, all political dissent was censored, and the \"Danica\" went out of print.\n\nThe movement's plea for unity among the Slavs, particularly South Slavs, also found supporters among prominent Serbs of the time, most notably Vuk Stefanović Karadžić, the reformer of Serbian language. Ljudevit Gaj had, in fact, appealed to Serbia (along with Dalmatia and Russia) for moral and financial support given their ethnic and cultural connections.\n\nIn 1850, a small group of Illyrian and Serbian representatives signed the \"Vienna agreement\" which in effect proclaimed the southern Shtokavian dialect to be the standard, common language of Serbs and Croats, with Serbian Cyrillic and Croatian Latin alphabet as equal letters. The agreement was the basis of standardizing the Serbo-Croatian language.\n\nThe Illyrian movement was the first and most prominent Pan-Slavic movement in Croatian history.\n\nThe Illyrian movement was successful in its goals for culture. \"Where there was no precedent for nineteenth-century concepts like Czechoslovak or Illyrian nationhood these projects failed. Nationalism took hold insofar as it built on existing realities, historical, linguistic or social.\" The period of the Illyrian movement is today referred to as the \"Croatian national revival\".\n\nThe movement formed the basis for a common Serbo-Croatian language, and it fostered support in Croatia for its ultimate goal of creating an Illyrian state, but the movement itself had failed to achieve that goal. Increasing Croatian nationalism shifted towards pan-Slavic ideals because the Croatian identity superseded the \"Illyrian\" hopes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35347539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35347539", "title": "International Anarchist Congresses", "text": "International Anarchist Congresses\n\nOver the past 150 years, anarchists and anarcho-syndicalists have held many congresses, conferences and international meetings in which organizations, trade unions, groups and individuals with libertarian views have participated.\n\nThe original International Workingmen's Association (IWMA), often known today as the First International, grouped together workers' societies of various socialist tendencies, including Mutualists, Blanquists, Owenites and republicans, though the most prominent were undoubtedly the Collectivists, grouped around Mikhail Bakunin and the Communists, led by Karl Marx. Towards the end of the First International, the Collectivists adopted Communist positions, but differed from the Marxists in their absolute rejection of authority, both within the International and in their strategic vision for the social revolution, which must immediately abolish the State and not, as with the Marxists, use it in order to gradually establish a communist society.\n\nIn these early years of the international socialist movement, the IWMA held 5 congresses attended by both these latter tendencies, at which the differences between the various ideologies clearly emerged. After the 5th Congress, the movement split, with the anarchist communists establishing an anti-authoritarian International. The IWMA was dissolved after its 6th Congress.\n\n\nAfter the Hague Congress (1872), which saw the expulsion of the anarchists Mikhail Bakunin and James Guillaume, it was decided to hold a Congress of the anti-authoritarian Sections and Federations of the International in St. Imier, Switzerland. The Congress was attended by delegates of the International federations in Italy, Spain, Belgium, the United States, France and French-speaking Switzerland. It should be remembered that many sections of the International around this time had membership figures running into the thousands and tens of thousands.\n\nThis congress was not considered by the anarchists as the first of a new international organization, but rather the continuation of the old International. It rejected the modifications to the General Rules of the IWMA that had been decided at the London Conference (1871) and the Hague Congress (1872).\n\n\nAfter 1877, the anti-authoritarian International continued to function in certain areas (such as Spain, Tuscany and Switzerland) on a local level. A number of local or regional congresses were held, including an important congress of the Jura Federation (Switzerland) in September 1880 which was attended by a number of international delegates and observers. It was at this congress that the anarchist movement adopted anarchist communism as its goal.\n\n\nThere were various other unsuccessful attempts to call international congresses, in Geneva (1882), Paris (1889), Chicago (1890) and again Paris (1900). A number of anarchists also attended the World Socialist Congress, which took place in Ghent (Belgium) from 9–15 September 1877. The Second International was set up in 1889, and many anarchists participated in it. Although they were expelled from the 3rd Congress, the 4th Congress in London in 1896 saw a continuation of the clash between libertarian and authoritarian socialism, with a number of anarchists, such as Malatesta and Cornelissen, in attendance.\n\nFollowing the First World War and the Russian Revolution, anarchists and anarcho-syndicalists once again sought to rebuild the IWA. Initially intending to join with other revolutionary syndicalist organizations in the Bolshevik-led Profintern, libertarian unions became increasingly worried about the authoritarianism of the Bolsheviks and the subordination of Profintern to the Comintern. So, after two conferences in Berlin, the first from 16–21 December 1920 and the second from 16–18 June 1922, the new International Workingmen's Association (later to be known as the International Workers' Association) was born at its first congress in December 1922.\n\nThe IWA still exists today.\n\n\nAnarchists continued to hold specifically anarchist congresses and conferences after the war, mostly focused on theoretical/ideological discussion. The objective was often the same: to create an international organization which would group together the various non-syndicalist anarchist organizations, i.e. those that were not already members of the IWA.\n\nA stable international organization was finally established in 1968 at a congress in Carrara, Italy - the International of Anarchist Federations (IFA), which still exists today.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "762287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=762287", "title": "Iraqi Interim Government", "text": "Iraqi Interim Government\n\nThe Iraqi Interim Government was created by the United States and its coalition allies as a caretaker government to govern Iraq until the drafting of the new constitution following the National Assembly election conducted on January 30, 2005. The Iraqi Interim Government itself took the place of the Coalition Provisional Authority (and the Iraq Interim Governing Council) on June 28, 2004, and was replaced by the Iraqi Transitional Government on May 3, 2005.\n\nIt was recognized by the U.S., the United Nations, the Arab League and several other countries as being the sovereign government of Iraq (see Iraqi sovereignty for more information). The U.S. retained significant de facto power in the country and critics contend that the government existed only at the pleasure of the United States and other coalition countries, whose military forces still remain in Iraq. The coalition did promise that its troops would leave if the new sovereign government requested it, but no such request was made.\n\nThe government's head of government was Prime Minister Iyad Allawi and his deputy was the influential and charismatic Barham Salih. The ceremonial head of state was President Ghazi Mashal Ajil al-Yawer. They were all sworn in at a second and more public ceremony on June 28, 2004, shortly after the small private one at which L. Paul Bremer, the Coalition Provisional Authority's administrator, formally gave chief justice Midhat Mahmoud the legal documents instituting the hand-over.\n\nAbsent a permanent constitution, the new government operated under the Law of Administration for the State of Iraq for the Transitional Period.\n\nAllawi was a former member of the Iraq Interim Governing Council and was chosen by the council to be the Interim Prime Minister of Iraq to govern the country beginning with the United States' handover of sovereignty (June 28, 2004) until national elections, scheduled for early 2005. Although many believe the decision was reached largely on the advice of United Nations special envoy to Iraq, Lakhdar Brahimi, the \"New York Times\" reported that Brahimi only endorsed him reluctantly after pressure from U.S. officials, including Paul Bremer, the former US Iraqi Administrator. Two weeks later, Brahimi announced his resignation, due to \"great difficulties and frustration.\" Allawi is often described as a moderate Shia (a member of Iraq's majority faith) chosen for his secular background and ties to the United States. However, his image has been undermined with the media suggesting that Allawi was Washington's puppet.\n\nAfter his interim government assumed legal custody of Saddam Hussein and re-introduced capital punishment, Allawi gave assurances that he would not interfere with the trial and would accept any court decisions. In an interview with Dubai-based TV station al-Arabiya he said: \"As for the execution, that is for the court to decide—so long as a decision is reached impartially and fairly.\"\n\nIn early July 2004, Allawi issued an unprecedented statement claiming that the Iraqi interim government had provided intelligence for the U.S. air strikers with 500 and 1000 pound (220 and 450 kg) bombs on Fallujah in July. Later he announced new security measures, including the right to impose martial law and curfews, as well as a new counter-terrorist intelligence unit, the General Security Directorate. Allawi vowed to crush the Iraqi insurgency, saying he would \"annihilate those terrorist groups\".\n\nOn July 17, \"The Sydney Morning Herald\" alleged that one week before the handover of sovereignty, Allawi himself summarily executed six suspected insurgents at a Baghdad police station. The allegations are backed up by two independent sources and the execution is said to have taken place in presence of about a dozen Iraqi police, four American security men and Interior Minister Falah al-Naqib. Allawi reportedly said that the execution was to \"send a clear message to the police on how to deal with insurgents.\" Both Allawi's office and Naqib have denied the report. US ambassador John Negroponte did not clearly deny the allegations. On July 18, Iraqi militants offered a $285,000 reward for anyone who could kill Iyad Allawi.\n\nIn August, Allawi closed the Iraqi office of Al Jazeera for thirty days. His minister Hoshiyar Zebari deplored the \"one-sided and biased coverage\" and declared that the interim government \"will not allow some people to hide behind the slogan of freedom of the press and media.\" Allawi also appointed ex-Baathist and former Saddam intelligence officer Ibrahim Janabi as the head of the Higher Media Commission, a regulator of Iraq's media. The banning of Al Jazeera was widely criticised in the Arab world and the West, for example by Reporters Sans Frontières who called it \"a serious blow to press freedom\".\n\nThe negotiations that followed the fighting between Muqtada al-Sadr's militia and joint US/Iraqi forces in Najaf ended when Allawi withdrew his emissary Mouwaffaq al-Rubaie on August 14. An al-Sadr spokesman alleged that they \"had agreed with Rubaie on all points but Allawi called him back and he ended the issue.\"\n\nAllawi has been heavily criticised by members of his own government. Justice minister Malik Dohan al-Hassan resigned over the issue of an arrest warrant of Ahmed Chalabi. Vice president Ibrahim al-Jafari commented on the attacks against al-Sadr: \"War is the worst choice, and it is only used by a bad politician.\" Another Iraqi official said: \"There are brush fires burning out of control all over the place from terrorists and insurgents, and he starts a new bonfire in Najaf.\"\n\nWhile the strategy of \"eliminat[ing] Moqtada Sadr's political movement\" by \"crushing his military power\" instead of integrating him into the political process received mostly praise in the West, the Arab press levelled harsh criticism of Allawi's handling of the Najaf situation.\n\nAs appointed on 28 June 2004:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20162735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20162735", "title": "Khmer People's National Liberation Armed Forces", "text": "Khmer People's National Liberation Armed Forces\n\nThe Khmer People's National Liberation Armed Forces (KPNLAF) was the military component of the Khmer People's National Liberation Front (KPNLF) a political front organized in 1979 in opposition to the Vietnamese-installed People's Republic of Kampuchea (PRK) regime in Cambodia. The KPNLAF was loyal to Son Sann, a former Prime Minister under Prince Norodom Sihanouk and the founder of the KPNLF political movement.\n\nThe KPNLAF was formed in March 1979 from various anti-communist groups that had concentrated on the Thai-Cambodian border and which were opposed to the People's Republic of Kampuchea, the Vietnamese-backed government of Cambodia. Many of these groups were essentially warlord bands, engaging more in smuggling and in internecine fighting than in combat operations. They were brought together by General Dien Del, a former career officer of the Khmer Republic who became chief of the KPNLAF General Staff. By mid-1979 there were 1,600 armed soldiers in the KPNLAF.\n\nThe KPNLF was proclaimed on October 9, 1979 at Sok Sann, a camp in the jungles of the Cardamom Mountains that contained barely 2,000 men and was a merger of 13 armed groups, some of them remnants of the Khmer National Armed Forces. The following month the first shipment of 3,000 rifles arrived from Beijing. In 1981 overall command was given to General Sak Sutsakhan, another prominent member of the Republic's former army.\n\nGeneral Dien Del opened an officer's training school at Ampil Refugee Camp (Ban Sangae) in January 1981. The first graduating class of 82 cadet officers, 68 company-level commanders and 76 platoon-level commanders immediately took up posts in the field. This was further helped by the arrival of some 3000 Chinese weapons in March.\n\nBecause of Son Sann's non-communist credentials, the KPNLAF offered an alternative to those Cambodians who supported neither Sihanouk, Hanoi nor the Khmer Rouge, and it quickly became the second largest guerrilla force in Thailand, second only to the remnants of the Khmer Rouge. By mid-1981, with about 7,000 personnel under arms, it was able to protect its refugee camps and occasionally to conduct forays into Cambodia.\n\nIn June 1982 the KPNLF joined the Coalition Government of Democratic Kampuchea, although military operations between the three partner organizations never achieved any degree of coordination.\n\nNong Chan Refugee Camp became the KPNLAF's military headquarters at the end of 1982, although Ampil Camp remained the administrative headquarters until it was destroyed in early 1985. Nong Chan housed the KPNLAF's 3rd, 7th and 9th battalions and a Special Forces commando unit, while the 1st Battalion was at Nong Samet Refugee Camp and the 2nd at Ampil. By early 1984 Son Sann claimed that his KPNLF army \"…had 12,000 fully armed fighters, with an additional 8,000 trained but still without weapons.\"\n\nThe KPNLAF favored strike-and-retreat guerrilla tactics and tended to operate in small, lightly armed, highly mobile units of 6 to 12 soldiers.\n\n\nDue to the lack of weapons, many KPNLAF troops carried their own guns, including American M16s which had been supplied by the US military to Khmer National Armed Forces troops prior to 1975. A few soldiers even carried hunting rifles or shotguns.\n\nKPNLAF forces were adept at the use of landmines, particularly blast mines such as the PMN-2 and M14, as well as bounding fragmentation mines such as the M16A2 and the M2A4.\n\nTwo developments in the mid-1980s greatly diminished KPNLAF capabilities as a fighting force. The first of these was the Vietnamese dry season offensive of November 1984 to March 1985, which weakened the KPNLAF's numbers and forced them to abandon several fortified border encampments (such as Nong Samet and Nong Chan) on the Thai-Cambodian border. The other insurgent forces, the Khmer Rouge and the Armée Nationale Sihanoukiste, were also affected by this offensive, which reduced the number of camps on the border from 21 to 11. The Government of Thailand and the international community viewed the quartering of KPNLAF troops in civilian camps as a recipe for disaster, and United Nations Border Relief Operation, the UN agency responsible for security on the border, relocated the camps inside Thailand with troops in separate camps from refugees.\n\nThe second development, equally harmful to the KPNLAF cause, was the dispute that broke out among the top leaders. Following the loss of the border camps, contemporary reports noted that \"open revolt\" had broken out among guerrilla commanders over the \"dictatorial ways\" of Son Sann, who had continued as president of the KPNLF, and his \"interference in military matters.\" The crisis resulted in the virtual paralysis of the KPNLAF until leadership issues were resolved in late 1986.\n\nPartly as a result of leadership disputes that prevented the development of a coordinated military strategy, the KPNLAF turned to sabotage and demolition in order to wage a war of attrition. Starting in 1983 the Special Air Service of the United Kingdom secretly provided training to a 250-man KPNLAF commando battalion. Commandos were trained to operate independently in enemy territory in six-man units that attacked bridges, railways, trains, office buildings, artillery, power lines, transformers, and radar stations, using small group tactics, booby-traps, landmines and improvised explosive devices manufactured from commercial products or conventional ordnance. Students were also trained in tactics, weapons, navigation, first aid, radio communications, and unarmed combat. At least six training courses of six to ten weeks were conducted between 1986 and 1989. The training was provided in Thailand at a Thai military facility near the Burmese border, and in Singapore. Revelation by John Pilger of these activities caused considerable debate in the House of Commons of the United Kingdom in July 1991.\n\nHostilities involving KPNLAF forces had largely ended by mid-1989, and Vietnam withdrew the bulk of its occupying troops from Cambodia by September 21, 1989. General Dien Del presided over the demobilization of the KPNLAF in February 1992.\n"}
{"id": "48549274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48549274", "title": "Kurt Adams (politician)", "text": "Kurt Adams (politician)\n\nKurt Adams (15 December 1889 – 7 October 1944) was a Hamburg SPD politician and an educationalist.\n\nFollowing the failed assassination attempt on the leader in July 1944 Kurt Adams was one of several thousand high-profile non-Nazis arrested and detained by the government during August. He died a couple of months later at the Buchenwald concentration camp.\n\nKurt Adams was born at the tail end of 1889. His father was a merchant. He attended two secondary schools, first the \"Vor dem Lübeckertor Realschule\" and then the \"auf der Uhlenhorst Realschule\", before progressing to university. His university level studies took him to universities in Göttingen, Freiburg, the Humboldt (Berlin) and Greifswald. Subjects studied were German, French and History. He received his doctorate in 1912 for a dissertation entitled \"Otto Ludwig´s Theories on Drama\". The next year he took a job with the Hamburg City Schools Service, also teaching at the Albrecht-Thaer School, and became committed to the cause of education reform. Adams remained an energetic member of the city Schools Service till 1929. In October 1928 he took over headship of the Hamburg People's Academy from Rudolf Roß.\n\nKurt Adams joined the Social Democratic Party (SPD) while still a student. Between 1924 and 1933 he was a member of the Hamburg Parliament. More than once he stood for election to the national Reichstag, but his name was towards the bottom of the SPD party list and he was never elected.\n\nHe took a particular interest in education and was a member of various education related committees and grouings including the \"Working Group of SPD Teachers\" (\"Arbeitsgemeinschaft sozialdemokratischer Lehrer\") of which he was chairman locally, becoming known as one of the Hamburg SPD's leading education experts. He also headed up the Hamburg \"Kinderfreundebewegung\" (\"literally \"Children's friends' movement\"\").\n\nFollowing Régime change in January 1933, the new government lost little time in moving towards one-party government. Adams was threatened with the loss of his position in the Schools Service as a result of the so-called Law for the Restoration of the Professional Civil Service, passed in April 1933. He therefore announced his resignation from the SPD to the local party leadership, but he nevertheless lost his job on 232 June 1933. He faced a call from the newly appointed Hamburg Nazi Gauleiter, Karl Kaufmann to renounce his political convictions, but did not do so. Kurt Adams was succeeded as head of the Hamburg People's Academy by .\n\nAfter losing his public service employment Adam worked briefly for a cinema news-sheet, before taking on a small coffee distribution business in Hamburg's Nikolaifleet (in the city's old harbour quarter). The coffee business brought him into contact with a number pf politically like-minded individuals, and his little trading office quickly became a Hamburg meeting point for SPD and Communists, whose party activities had become illegal in 1933. Adams was able to help fellow victims of Nazi persecution, including and Rudolf Klug. In addition to coffee, the little business became a distribution point for illegal political leaflets, some of which Adams himself distributed, using his bicycle.\n\nOn 20 July 1944 an assassination attempt was made against Adolf Hitler. The dictator survived, but his regime had already prepared a list of several thousand names, to be used in the event of an escalation in political tension on the home front, and the name of Kurt Adams was on it. In the context of the wave of arrests known as \"Aktion Gitter\", on 24 August 1944 Kurt Adams was arrested at Greiz, where he was staying with relatives while recuperating from a serious operation earlier in the year. He was taken to Gera nearby. Four days later he was taken to the Buchenwald concentration camp, which was already overcrowded, with approximately 84,000 detainees. On his arrival he was immediately recognized by other inmates, whose reactions to his arrival identified him to the guards. He was separated out and placed in a sub-camp where the condition of the accommodation, food and hygiene were massively worse than in the main camp. He quickly weakened and became ill: from later reports provided by fellow detainees he appears to have caught pneumonia, and was taken, on 15 September 1944, to the camp hospital where he received treatment and his condition may have improved. However, he was soon discharged back to the camp. The family received two more letters from him, in the second of which, dated 26 September 1944, he wrote that he was getting better. However, on 5 October 1944 he lost consciousness, and he died, probably of meningitis, on 7 October 1944.\n\n"}
{"id": "44554702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44554702", "title": "League Against Usury", "text": "League Against Usury\n\nThe League Against Usury (, LCC, or \"Liga împotriva Cametei\") was a single-issue, mainly agrarian, political party in Romania. Formed as a political answer to the Great Depression, it involved itself in the fight against \"usury\" (or predatory lending), bringing together politicians on all sides of the political spectrum. Its prominent backers and activists included leftists such as Nicolae L. Lupu and Ion D. Isac, independents such as Pantelimon Erhan, Stefan Frecôt, George Tutoveanu and Eraclie Sterian, and some affiliates of the interwar far-right. The LCC channeled protest votes, and competed in this with fascist movements such as the Iron Guard, ambiguously supporting economic antisemitism.\n\nAlthough perceived as an upsetting contender, the LCC effectively seconded the Democratic Peasants' Party–Stere. Under its auspices, it managed to obtain one seat in the Assembly in the election of June 1931. The League's fiscal proposals were embraced by the government of Nicolae Iorga, which also drew in former LCC cadres, while other activists left the League to openly embrace fascism. After involving itself in support of continued debt relief policies, and failing to win any seats in later elections, the LCC finally dissolved itself in late 1932.\n\nThe LCC was created by the jurist Eftimie \"Volică\" Antonescu with support from various politicians and journalists. Its constitutive congress was held at Antonescu's home in Bucharest on Saturday, August 17, 1929. According to one account, the movement may have had roots that predated the Great Depression: a League of the same name (later LCC chapter) was reportedly formed in 1928 by the Gorj County landowner Alexandru A. Magherescu. Voted in as LCC president, Antonescu had first stirred controversy in 1918, when he acted as a prosecutor selectively investigating wartime abuse. His career in politics saw him crossing the floor: he had been a member of the Conservative and National Parties, and afterwards defected to the National Liberal Party. Elected for the Senate seat in Gorj, he had criticized the governing National Peasants' Party for its handling of the Depression, and also for its passage of multiple and conflicting laws.\n\nThe LCC's generic goal was the fight against \"usury\", structured into three lesser objectives: phasing out interest rates, canceling foreclosures, and auditing the \"usurers\". In one of it manifestos, the LCC demanded quick state intervention and the reevaluation of interest at 1%; according to the peasants' own claims, interest rates could climb as high as 40% or even 100% in 1930. That year, Antonescu sent out a public notification to the Romanian Regents, who were looking after King Michael I. The text, which later became the LCC's producerist platform, spoke of bankers, civil administrators, and industrialists as \"parasites\", and called for tax cuts on the less wealthy. A peasant militant from Dolj detailed that agenda and proposed measures against the state apparatus, noting that a functionary could earn as much as 50 agricultural workers.\n\nHistorian Armin Heinen explains the economic mechanism leading to the establishment of the LCC as follows: \"The agrarian reform of 1917–1921 created a need for currency, which could only be supplied by bank loans. Agriculturists had contracted high-interest loans, either to compensate the former landowner or to furnish their new or extended property with basic supplies, or merely—given the entirely too small plots they were left for production—to ensure their living income. As an effect of the economic crisis, produce prices fell [...]. The peasants could no longer make their payments, and consequently their properties were put up for sale.\" These issues were aggravated by Western protectionism, which prevented exports, and by Soviet predatory pricing, which reduced demand.\n\nThe Antonescu program was met with skepticism by various other specialists. A \"laissez-faire\" economist, Al. D. Neagu, argued that the League presented \"inefficient, unjust and momentary palliatives\" to a systemic crisis, none of which could reactivate demand. Neagu also notes that the LCC's claims about usurers were largely dealt with by laws which limited repossession, and that its program was \"economically and morally unjustified\". Jurist Nicolae Dașcovici also suggested that measures such as those endorsed \"by the League against Usury agitators\" meant \"a continuous and quickened fall of trust by the capital [market]—and as such implicitly the worsening of credit ratings.\" The \"one cure\", he proposed, was \"liquidating the insolvent\".\n\nThe LCC was a complex and eclectic movement. The left-wing journalist Petre Pandrea, who attended LCC meetings, saw the party as a \"provisional alliance\" of \"the \"kulak\" and the hired hand\". Its sympathizers included Nicolae L. Lupu, leader of the Peasants' Party–Lupu (PȚ–L) and a left-wing critic of National Peasantist economic policies. According to historian Pompiliu Tudoran, both Lupu and Antonescu's parties should be regarded as \"center-left\". Lupu played a noted part in setting up the League, but was not present for its constitutive congress, being held up by partial elections in Hunedoara County. According to Pandrea, he had created around him a \"popular myth\" as a savior, but had never promised his peasant constituents any concrete form of debt relief.\n\nLupu's faction within the LCC was represented by Ion D. Isac. An educationist and decorated veteran, Isac was both the organizer of the League's branch in Gorj and chair of the national secretariat. Also joining the LCC in 1929 was a politically independent poet, George Tutoveanu, who published denunciations of the bankers and stated that his party's mission was \"to fight against suffering.\" In May 1930, the LCC inaugurated in Bucharest its own political newspaper, \"Jos Camăta\" (\"Down with Usury\"). From November 14, it had Constantin C. Iarca as its editor. From October, it had a chapter in Bessarabia, supervised by Pantelimon Erhan. Elsewhere, the League also won the adherence of Sterie Ionescu, who founded in Caracal the newspaper \"Desrobirea\" (\"Emancipation\"), \"at the service of plowmen, traders, and the League against Usury\". On November 3, 1930, the LCC had absorbed into it ranks Eraclie Sterian's Association of Mortgaged Owners and Debtors. By 1931, it had a branch in Năsăud County, with the mechanic Mihai Buta as one of its prominent members.\n\nWith its specific attacks on Jewish creditors, the LCC also had radical-right tinges: Heinen sees it as an \"antisemitic and markedly right-wing\" party, or \"protest movement\". The LCC's branch in Bukovina included a Colonel Ioan Niculcea, who also sympathized with the National-Christian Defense League (LANC). In summer 1930, the latter movement had instigated \"agrarian troubles of an antisemitic character\", with Niculcea as an active instigator. In mid 1930, Niculcea was arrested alongside the LANC's Nichifor Robu and Dumitru Scriculeac, a measure which only resulted in more confrontations between their supporters and Romanian Police. However, as noted at the time by \"La Revue Slave\", the LCC also challenged the core antisemitic tenets, by showing publicly that the \"usurers\" were highly active in Oltenia, where Jews were virtually non-present. In that region, the LCC was especially focused on denouncing the National Liberal banking monopoly. Eventually, in 1931, a LANC newspaper warned voters that the League was a \"wolf in sheep's clothing\", and merely a front for Lupu's party.\n\nIn other contexts, the LCC was regarded as a quasi-socialist movement or a front for the banned Romanian Communist Party (PCdR). As Pandrea notes, Lupu was suspected of being a \"Bolshevik\" by the banking lobby, but was merely a Romanian \"Kerensky\", his policies ones of compromise with the lenders. In one such report of January 1931, Argeș County authorities denounced the LCC as a front for both the PCdR and the Social Democratic Party (PSDR).\n\nSuch charges were disregarded by members of both groups. In its manifestos, the PSDR, which sided with the National Peasantists, dismissed the League and the PȚ–L as opportunistic movements, \"created for the love of pork barrels\". A more radical position was taken by the PCdR, whose 1931 congress listed LLC among the \"fascist and semi-fascist\" organisations used by the bourgeoisie and landowners in order to channel the discontent of the masses. With Communists taking power after World War II, this view became replicated in official historiography. However, in the 1960s, party historians such as Gheorghe Ioniță also reclaimed the League as one of the \"democratic organizations created, steered, and influenced by the [communist party]\". Researchers C. and F. Dumitrescu reached a similar conclusion, namely that the PCdR had a \"tight connection\" with the League.\n\nDespite being joined by antisemites, the LCC was also open to members of various ethnic minorities. Its regional chapter in the Banat was led by Stefan Frecôt, a dissident and French-speaking member of the Danube Swabian community, who was also briefly the national LCC's Vice President. In Bukovina, where the LCC formed itself under the presidency of Dorimedont \"Dori\" Popovici from May 1930, its affiliates included non-Romanians such as Carol Weltman, Victor Orobko, and Rudolf Müller. Ukrainian peasants were noted participants in Niculcea's anti-Jewish riot at Seletin.\n\nThe League acknowledged Carol II's return to the Romanian throne, and \"appealed to the sovereign that he take debtors under his protection.\" By March, the League and the Association of Mortgage Debtors were proselytizing with large-scale awareness campaigns, often developed around agricultural shows. These offered venues for airing LCC slogans, including: \"Dobânda este un furt ce nu trebuie plătit\" (\"Interest is theft that we should not cover\"). Carol toppled the National Peasantist cabinet in April, assigning Nicolae Iorga as his Prime Minister. As the latter noted, the appointment coincided with great turmoil, during which the LCC was preparing \"an actual peasants' revolt\" at Gorj. This was also suggested by Pandrea, who recalled the \"1907 atmosphere\" and \"pre-revolutionary\" feel of the LCC congress in Craiova. According to journalist Calman Blumenfeld-Scrutator, the \"extraordinarily energetic\" League was also especially strong in the Banat, where it looked like a real threat to the establishment.\n\nIn the June 1931 general elections, convened by Iorga, the LCC ran under a sun cross logo (⊕). It formed a loose alliance with the left-wing agrarian Democratic Peasants' Party–Stere (PȚD–S). The latter registered on separate lists, but only put up candidates in Bessarabia. By then, however, some members of the far-right wing had left the League: Col. Niculcea set up a Beetroot Cultivators' Collective (\"Obștea Cultivatorilor de Sfeclă\"), which caucused with the fascist Iron Guard. Far-right groups were nominally repressed during the election, with both Niculicea and Robu returning to jail, but Internal Affairs, then under Constantin Argetoianu, failed to take significant action on that front. At the time, the bulk of its surveillance activity was still focused on the LCC, the PCdR, and the Peasant Workers' Bloc.\n\nAccording to Scrutator, the LCC policy of presenting in peasant candidates \"makes insomniacs from both the leaders of government organizations as well as those of the opposition.\" As noted by historian Niculae Petrescu, the Democratic Peasantists had more to gain from their partnership with the LCC, increasing its share of the vote nationally. However, the alliance only received 2.8% of the vote nationally, winning them six seats in the Assembly of Deputies. The LCC took one seat and the PȚD–S took five. The party also formed a cartel with the PȚ–L, which granted it as a favor an extra seat, representing Gorj. Here, the two groups had gathered 3,940 votes between them. The courtesy seat went to Isac, who had been arrested for sedition during the campaign, forcing the authorities to release him.\n\nThe Democratic Nationalist Party (PND) and its allies emerged victorious from the campaign, returning Iorga as Prime Minister. His new administration incorporated former LCC cadres, appointing Tutoveanu as the prefect of Tutova County. The LCC also ran in the partial elections for the Assembly seat in that county (April 1932), separate from Lupu's own PȚ–L. The seat was taken by the Iron Guard's Corneliu Zelea Codreanu, who won 26% of the vote; the LCC had 13.7%, and the PȚ–L 6.2%. According to Heinen, the League still managed to draw votes away from the Iron Guard's niche, upsetting its growth.\n\nThe LCC opted to present its own candidates in the elections of July 1932. It thus denounced the PȚ–L alliance, allegedly because Lupu had refused to assign an eligible position in Alba County to Antonescu. The group failed to win any seats, but its leadership still met in August 1932, when it presented a new set of political demands. Largely rendered ineffectual by the adoption of debt relief and anti-usury legislation under the Iorga cabinet, it supported the application of such laws once they were placed in peril by the National Peasantist government of Alexandru Vaida-Voevod. At the time, it was speculated that the LCC would form a \"spontaneous\" alliance with the PND and other parties. However, the LCC voted to dissolve itself later in 1932.\n\nAn association called League Against Usury still existed in 1934 in Bucharest, collaborating with the Association of Mortgaged Owners and Debtors on a Front for Urban Reclamation (\"Frontul Asanării Urbane\"). The LCC's Gorj chapter, presided upon by Magherescu, had merged into Argetoianu's Agrarian Union Party, while Sterie Ionescu founded a Front of Debtors, and, in 1935, sought to reestablish the National Agrarian Party. Before the general election of December 1937, the sun cross logo was taken up by a Radical Peasants' Party, under Grigore Iunian. Antonescu himself set up another group, the (allegedly fascist) League for the Defense of Private Property. By the start of World War II, he reemerged as a right-wing critic of the Iron Guard, whom he accused of fomenting violent dissent among his students. Isac remained in national politics with Lupu's party, also setting up a Ploughmen's Syndicate; he withdrew from public affairs during World War II, but was for a while promoted under communism.\n\n"}
{"id": "15698325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15698325", "title": "Michael Phillip Austin", "text": "Michael Phillip Austin\n\nMichael Phillip Austin is Divisional Fellow of Sustainable Ecosystems at CSIRO in Canberra, Australia. He was elected as a Foreign Member of the Linnean Society (London) in 1997, and received the Gold Medal from the Ecological Society of Australia in 1995.\n"}
{"id": "13847165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13847165", "title": "Ministry of Culture (Brazil)", "text": "Ministry of Culture (Brazil)\n\nThe Ministry of Culture of Brazil (Portuguese: Ministério da Cultura, MinC) is a cabinet-level federal ministry created in 1985, in the first month of president's José Sarney government.\n\nIn April, 1990, it was dissolved by president Fernando Collor de Mello and transformed into a Culture Secretary, directly linked to the presidency. This situation was reverted two years later, but, in the meantime, in 1991, the law called popularly \"Lei Rouanet\" was created by the secretary of Culture, Sérgio Paulo Rouanet. It is a law that allows companies and individuals to sponsor cultural products, up to respectivally 4% and 6% of their income tax. It is a law of incentive to the culture, the most important instrument of the ministry, frequently contested. \n\nIn 1999, president Fernando Henrique Cardoso expanded the scope of the law, with more financial resources and a reorganization of its structure. Again, in 2003, president Luís Inácio Lula da Silva reestructured the ministry. \n\nThe Ministry of Culture was dissolved again on May 12, 2016 by the acting president of Brazil, Michel Temer. Its functions were merged into a new Ministry of Education and Culture. The dissolution of the ministry immediately sparked protests in numerous Brazilian cities, and included the occupation of the Gustavo Capanema Palace in Rio de Janeiro, and National Foundation of the Arts (FUNARTE) offices in Belo Horizonte, Brasília and São Paulo. Artists such as the singer Otto and Arnaldo Antunes participated in the protests. The Ministry of Culture was reinstated by the Temer government on May 23, 2016.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37441372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37441372", "title": "Ministry of Health (Saudi Arabia)", "text": "Ministry of Health (Saudi Arabia)\n\nMinistry of Health () is the ministry responsible for the health of the citizens of Saudi Arabia. The current minister is Dr. Tawfiq Al Rabiah.\n\nIn 1925, Saudi Arabia's first public health department was established in Makkah. The department was responsible for building hospitals and healthcare centers and issuing and enforcing regulations to provide necessary standards for practicing medicine and pharmacology. A public health council was also established to address the growing need for healthcare services and it was the highest-level supervisory board, overseeing all aspects of the country’s healthcare services.\n\nThen, these health-care institutions were transformed into a ministerial body in 1950. Abdullah bin Faisal Al Saud was the first health minister. The ministry is based in Riyadh.\n\nHealth-care services in Saudi Arabia are provided by several public and private agencies. However, the ministry is the major planner and provider of these services.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52557117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52557117", "title": "Morena Herrera", "text": "Morena Herrera\n\nMorena Herrera is a Salvadoran feminist and social activist, noted for her work against her country's ban on abortion. During the Salvadoran Civil War, which ended in 1992, Herrera served as a left-wing freedom fighter for the Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front (FMLN) against the United States-supported government. She has been particularly active against abortion since it was abolished in 1997, and in 2009 began working with the Citizen’s Group for the Decriminalization of Abortion, which she now heads. Herrera was named one of the BBC 100 Women in 2016 for her contributions to women's rights in El Salvador.\n\nActive in campaigning for social change from a young age, during the Salvadoran Civil War, which ended in 1992, Herrera served as a left-wing freedom fighter. She fought for over ten years with the Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front (FMLN) against the United States-supported government.\n\nHerrera was outspoken on the Peace Accords, signed in 1992, which she saw as deeply problematic for women's rights in El Salvador. She has said of them: \"Those accords left big holes when it came to women’s rights. I realized I had to fight another way. Women’s rights are human rights and they have to be a priority.\" The situation for women and abortion has worsened since 1997, when changes in the penal code made abortion completely illegal, when it had previously been acceptable in severe cases where a woman's life was at risk or she had been raped. Due to the country being strictly Catholic, abortion is considered unacceptable, even for pregnant teenage girls who face many problems. \n\nSince the ban on abortion in El Salvador was passed in 1998, over 600 women accused of having an abortion have been sent to jail for up to forty years. The worst part of this unfortunate circumstance is that in most of these cases, the women had a miscarriage. Now they must deal with the sorrow of losing their child while being jailed for a 'crime' they did not commit. \"Las 17\" is a group of jailed women whose freedom Herrera and her colleagues have fought for. Although a few these women have been freed, despite all the efforts by Herrera and her colleagues, many more women have been convicted and sent to jail for the same crime. Herrera says that the government does not recognize women's reproductive rights, despite the risks a pregnancy places on the mother. Currently, a third of pregnancies in El Salvador come from teenage mothers, this could be partly due to young women being raped by the horrendous gangs that are prominent near San Salvador, the nation's capital. Therefore, these young women are more subject to having pregnancy complications since they are still growing and maturing themselves. Political figures don't want to discard the ban on abortion because they fear the church and certain organizations such as the \"Yes to Life Foundation\", will not elect them back to office. The idea of 'a woman's sole purpose is to be a mother and take care of the house' is a main one for the church and society of El Salvador, leading to the lack of support for a woman to be in control of her body. To make matters worse, contraception is very hard to obtain for most women and if they do obtain some, it usually does not work properly. Herrera hopes to have make change in the legal rights for women while Salvador Sanchez Céren is still president (until 2019), but while his job and life are on the line facing the gangs and society, the changes towards women's rights has been an incredibly slow process. Despite the plethora of obstacles Herrera still has to overcome and the frequent threats on her life and the life of her family members, she continues to work tediously each day towards a better, consented life for all women in El Salvador. \n\nSince 2009, Herrera has worked with the Citizen’s Group for the Decriminalization of Abortion, which she now heads. In 2013 she was outspoken when the Supreme Court of El Salvador denied an abortion to a terminally ill woman, who stood no chance of surviving the birth, calling them \"irresponsible\". \nHer work was subject to a report by Amnesty International in January 2015, and in 2016 she was named one of the BBC 100 Women. \n"}
{"id": "17100757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17100757", "title": "Nationalization in Romania", "text": "Nationalization in Romania\n\nThe nationalization of the means of production was a measure taken by Romania's new Communist authorities in order to lay the foundation of socialism. The act that allowed this measure to take place was Law 119, adopted by the Great National Assembly on June 11, 1948. Article 1 decreed subject to nationalization \"all the wealth of the soil not in the property of the state at the time of entry into force of the Constitution of the Romanian People's Republic, as well as individual enterprises, societies of any type and private industrial, bank, insurance, mining, transport and telecommunications associations\". Nationalized (generally without any form of compensation) were 8,894 industrial, mining, transport, banking and insurance companies, followed in November 1948 by 383 cinemas and medical-sanitary facilities. By 1950, the measure was applied to chemical enterprises, pharmacies and remaining economic entities.\n\nThe nationalization also included a significant number of homes. The figure of around 400,000 buildings is regularly mentioned. According to Societatea Academică din România (SAR) between 241.000 and 600.000 properties were affected by the measure.\n\nThe nationalization begun in 1948, together with the collectivization of agriculture (1949–62), were decisive in undoing the capitalist economy and establishing a socialist economy based on state-owned or cooperative property.\n\nAfter the fall of communism in Romania, the state has tried to compensate homeowners and enterprise owners who could not recover their houses, industries, or lands. A special fund dedicated to compensation was created in 2005: Fondul Proprietatea.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23456094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23456094", "title": "Party of Socialists of the Republic of Moldova", "text": "Party of Socialists of the Republic of Moldova\n\nThe Party of Socialists of the Republic of Moldova (, PSRM; , \"Partija socialistov Respubliki Moldova\") is a pro-Russian democratic socialist, nationalist and populist political party in Moldova. Between 2005 and 2011 it was known as the Party of Socialists of Moldova \"Motherland\" (\"Partidul Socialiştilor din Moldova «Patria-Rodina»\", PSMPR). The party has now largely succeeded the Party of Communists of the Republic of Moldova (PCRM) in terms of election results and opinion polling, winning 20.5% against 17.5% in the Moldovan parliamentary election, 2014 and currently polling at around 50% against PCRM's 3%.\n\nThe PSRM was founded in 1997 by members of the Socialist Party of Moldova. The Founding Congress took place on 29 June 1997 in Chişinău. Veronica Abramciuc and Eduard Smirnov were elected as co-chairmen of the new party. The party obtained 0,59% of votes in 1998 election, failing to elect any representative.\n\nIn 2001 election the party formed the electoral bloc \"Unity\", together with the Republican Party of Moldova: the bloc obtained 0,46% of votes, failing to elect any representative. In 2006 elections the party formed the electoral bloc \"Motherland\", together with the Socialist Party of Moldova: the bloc obtained 4,9% of votes and did not elect any representatives.\n\nThe party did not participate in 2009 and 2010 elections, endorsing the Party of Communists of Moldova (PCRM) instead; party chairman Veronica Abramciuc was included in PCRM list and elected to the Parliament.\n\nIn 2011, Igor Dodon, former member of the PCRM, joined the party, and was elected as its chairman on 18 December 2011. Subsequently a Socialist Group, which included Dodon, Veronica Abramciuc and Zinaida Greceanîi, was set up in the Parliament.\n\nThe party won the 2014 general election with over 20% of the vote. The party remained in opposition, as two pro-EU center-right parties managed to form a minority cabinet with the external support of the PCRM.\n\nIn the Moldovan presidential elections of 2016 party leader Igor Dodon was elected as new President of Moldova. Following the election, Dodon stepped down as party chairman and was replaced by Zinaida Greceanîi.\n\nThe party has an anti-NATO, anti-European Union, anti-Romanian, and pro-Russian stance. Party members have a USSR nostalgia and support the so-called ″Moldovan language and Moldovan ethnicity\", a thesis constructed by Soviet propaganda.\n\nAlthough the party is anti-Romanian, party members have Romanian citizenship, for example members of Parliament Alla Dolinţă, Anatolie Labuneţ, Adrian Lebedinschi, Corneliu Furculiţa, Ghenadi Mitriuc, Radu Mudreac.\n\nThe party strongly opposes LGBT rights in Moldova. Despite officially associating itself with the left wing movement, the party is working with nationalist, right wing and religious movements to counter the \"promotion of vice spread with the help of the US in Moldova.\" The party has links to right-wing populist political parties across Europe, including the Europe of Nations and Freedom parliamentary group.\n\nDespite labeling itself as socialist, PSRM is not affiliated to socialist international organizations, like the Socialist International, the Progressive Alliance or the Party of European Socialists (all positions held by the Democratic Party of Moldova).\n\n\nThe PSRM participated in the Moldovan parliamentary elections in 1998 and 2001 without success. In the 2005 legislative elections the party contested as part of the Electoral Bloc Motherland and received 4.97% votes, which was not sufficient to enter parliament, as it did not pass the electoral threshold of 6.0%. At the 2009 legislative elections in April and July and at the 2010 legislative election it supported the Party of Communists of the Republic of Moldova. Its leader, Veronica Abramciuc, was included in the PCRM candidates list.\n\n"}
{"id": "20725882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20725882", "title": "Poor People's Alliance", "text": "Poor People's Alliance\n\nThe Poor People's Alliance is a network of radical grassroots movements in South Africa. It was formed in 2008 after the Action Alliance, formed in December 2006, was expanded to include two more organisations.\n\nThe following organisations are members of the alliance:\n\n\nThe Poor People's Alliance refuses electoral politics and resolved to boycott the 2009 national elections under the slogan \"No Land! No House! No Vote!\".\n\nThe Poor People's Alliance has supported the struggle of the eMacambini Community against mass eviction by Ruwaad Holdings and KwaZulu-Natal Premier S'bu Ndebele and the African National Congress Provincial Government of KwaZulu-Natal.\n\nThe Chicago Anti-Eviction Campaign states that it has been influenced by the Western Cape Anti-Eviction Campaign and the Poor People's Alliance.\n"}
{"id": "1999552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1999552", "title": "Psychic driving", "text": "Psychic driving\n\nPsychic driving was a psychiatric procedure of the 1950s and 1960s in which patients were subjected to a continuously repeated audio message on a looped tape to alter their behaviour. In psychic driving, patients were often exposed to hundreds of thousands of repetitions of a single statement over the course of their treatment. They were also concurrently administered muscular paralytic drugs such as curare to subdue them for the purposes of exposure to the looped message(s). The procedure was pioneered by Dr. D. Ewen Cameron, and used and funded by the CIA's Project MKUltra program in Canada.\n\nThe psychic driving procedure was a chronological precursor to Cameron's \"depatterning\", the latter involving massive doses of electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) combined with similarly large doses of psychedelic drugs (such as LSD). The intent was to break down the subject's personality—theoretically \"psychic driving\" could then be used with some efficacy in establishing a new personality. In Cameron's depatterning, the ECT would often continue to be administered despite the manifestation of convulsive fits, which were consensually considered to be contraindications to normal and safe ECT procedure. Such biologically and psychologically devastating procedures, adopted internationally by the psychiatric establishment, were largely abolished by the time the CIA was brought before a Senate Hearing (1977) for its involvement and funding of Cameron's experimental activities—as part of the MKULTRA program. The topic of Cameron's psychic driving is dealt with in some detail in the docudrama entitled \"The Sleep Room\" (1998) directed by Anne Wheeler.\n\nSimilar techniques are alleged to have been used in the kidnapping and death of CIA operative William Francis Buckley by Aziz al-Abub, a medical doctor from Beirut who was seen as epitomizing medical torture. Aziz al-Abub, also known as Ibrahim al-Nadhir, was known for using his medical training to refine torture techniques. His techniques were shown to be closely connected to the CIA-developed torture techniques. As with the CIA, he used drugs to make it easier to handle those he tortured, carefully determined how long to keep a prisoner hooded and when to isolate them and other techniques seen as medical torture.\n\nInitially, in the hit NBC TV series \"Hannibal\", Dr. Chilton uses psychic driving on a patient of the Baltimore State Hospital for the Criminally Insane, Dr. Abel Gideon (played by Eddy Izzard), to convince him that he is the main antagonist of the series, the Chesapeake ripper. Later in the series psychic driving is alluded to by the main character Dr. Hannibal Lecter as a means to convince FBI profiler Will Graham that he has committed a string of brutal murders during a bout of encephalitis, to throw him off the trail and keep himself safe. Dr. Lecter uses psychic driving by purposely inducing trance-like states during therapy session, using Will Graham's encephalitis, then reinforcing his delusions that he has killed during episodes of lost time where he can't remember his own actions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25614", "title": "Race (human categorization)", "text": "Race (human categorization)\n\nA race is a grouping of humans based on shared physical or social qualities into categories generally viewed as distinct by society. First used to refer to speakers of a common language and then to denote national affiliations, by the 17th century the term \"race\" began to refer to physical (phenotypical) traits. Modern scholarship regards race as a social construct, that is, a symbolic identity created to establish some cultural meaning. While partially based on physical similarities within groups, race is not an inherent physical or biological quality.\n\nSocial conceptions and groupings of races vary over time, involving folk taxonomies that define of individuals based on perceived traits. Scientists consider biological essentialism obsolete, and generally discourage racial explanations for collective differentiation in both physical and behavioral traits.\n\nEven though there is a broad scientific agreement that essentialist and typological conceptualizations of race are untenable, scientists around the world continue to conceptualize race in widely differing ways, some of which have essentialist implications. While some researchers use the concept of race to make distinctions among fuzzy sets of traits or observable differences in behaviour, others in the scientific community suggest that the idea of race often is used in a naive or simplistic way, and argue that, among humans, race has no taxonomic significance by pointing out that all living humans belong to the same species, \"Homo sapiens\", and (as far as applicable) subspecies, \"Homo sapiens sapiens\".\n\nSince the second half of the 20th century, the association of race with the ideologies and theories of scientific racism has led to the use of the word \"race\" itself becoming problematic. Although still used in general contexts, \"race\" has often been replaced by less ambiguous and loaded terms: \"populations\", \"people(s)\", \"ethnic groups\", or \"communities\", depending on context.\n\nModern scholarship views racial categories as socially constructed, that is, race is not intrinsic to human beings but rather an identity created, often by socially dominant groups, to establish meaning in a social context. This often involves the subjugation of groups defined as racially inferior, as in the one-drop rule used in the 19th-century United States to exclude those with any amount of African ancestry from the dominant racial grouping, defined as \"white\". Such racial identities reflect the cultural attitudes of imperial powers dominant during the age of European colonial expansion. This view rejects the notion that race is biologically defined.\n\nAlthough commonalities in physical traits such as facial features, skin color, and hair texture comprise part of the race concept, the latter is a social distinction rather than an inherently biological one. Other dimensions of racial groupings include shared history, traditions and language. For instance, African-American English is a language spoken by many African Americans, especially in areas of the United States where racial segregation exists. Furthermore, people often self-identify as members of a race for political reasons.\n\nWhen people define and talk about a particular conception of race, they create a social reality through which social categorization is achieved. In this sense, races are said to be social constructs. These constructs develop within various legal, economic, and sociopolitical contexts, and may be the effect, rather than the cause, of major social situations. While race is understood to be a social construct by many, most scholars agree that race has real material effects in the lives of people through institutionalized practices of preference and discrimination.\n\nSocioeconomic factors, in combination with early but enduring views of race, have led to considerable suffering within disadvantaged racial groups. Racial discrimination often coincides with racist mindsets, whereby the individuals and ideologies of one group come to perceive the members of an outgroup as both racially defined and morally inferior. As a result, racial groups possessing relatively little power often find themselves excluded or oppressed, while hegemonic individuals and institutions are charged with holding racist attitudes. Racism has led to many instances of tragedy, including slavery and genocide.\n\nIn some countries, law enforcement uses race to profile suspects. This use of racial categories is frequently criticized for perpetuating an outmoded understanding of human biological variation, and promoting stereotypes. Because in some societies racial groupings correspond closely with patterns of social stratification, for social scientists studying social inequality, race can be a significant variable. As sociological factors, racial categories may in part reflect subjective attributions, self-identities, and social institutions.\n\nScholars continue to debate the degrees to which racial categories are biologically warranted and socially constructed. For example, in 2008, John Hartigan, Jr. argued for a view of race that focused primarily on culture, but which does not ignore the potential relevance of biology or genetics. Accordingly, the racial paradigms employed in different disciplines vary in their emphasis on biological reduction as contrasted with societal construction.\n\nIn the social sciences, theoretical frameworks such as racial formation theory and critical race theory investigate implications of race as social construction by exploring how the images, ideas and assumptions of race are expressed in everyday life. A large body of scholarship has traced the relationships between the historical, social production of race in legal and criminal language, and their effects on the policing and disproportionate incarceration of certain groups.\n\nGroups of humans have always identified themselves as distinct from neighboring groups, but such differences have not always been understood to be natural, immutable and global. These features are the distinguishing features of how the concept of race is used today. In this way the idea of race as we understand it today came about during the historical process of exploration and conquest which brought Europeans into contact with groups from different continents, and of the ideology of classification and typology found in the natural sciences. The term \"race\" was often used in a general biological taxonomic sense, starting from the 19th century, to denote genetically differentiated human populations defined by phenotype.\n\nAccording to Smedley and Marks the European concept of \"race\", along with many of the ideas now associated with the term, arose at the time of the scientific revolution, which introduced and privileged the study of natural kinds, and the age of European imperialism and colonization which established political relations between Europeans and peoples with distinct cultural and political traditions. As Europeans encountered people from different parts of the world, they speculated about the physical, social, and cultural differences among various human groups. The rise of the Atlantic slave trade, which gradually displaced an earlier trade in slaves from throughout the world, created a further incentive to categorize human groups in order to justify the subordination of African slaves.\n\nDrawing on sources from classical antiquity and upon their own internal interactions – for example, the hostility between the English and Irish powerfully influenced early European thinking about the differences between people – Europeans began to sort themselves and others into groups based on physical appearance, and to attribute to individuals belonging to these groups behaviors and capacities which were claimed to be deeply ingrained. A set of folk beliefs took hold that linked inherited physical differences between groups to inherited intellectual, behavioral, and moral qualities. Similar ideas can be found in other cultures, for example in China, where a concept often translated as \"race\" was associated with supposed common descent from the Yellow Emperor, and used to stress the unity of ethnic groups in China. Brutal conflicts between ethnic groups have existed throughout history and across the world.\n\nThe first post-Graeco-Roman published classification of humans into distinct races seems to be François Bernier's \"Nouvelle division de la terre par les différents espèces ou races qui l'habitent\" (\"New division of Earth by the different species or races which inhabit it\"), published in 1684. In the 18th century the differences among human groups became a focus of scientific investigation. But the scientific classification of phenotypic variation was frequently coupled with racist ideas about innate predispositions of different groups, always attributing the most desirable features to the White, European race and arranging the other races along a continuum of progressively undesirable attributes. The 1735 classification of Carl Linnaeus, inventor of zoological taxonomy, divided the human species \"Homo sapiens\" into continental varieties of \"europaeus\", \"asiaticus\", \"americanus\", and \"afer\", each associated with a different humour: sanguine, melancholic, choleric, and phlegmatic, respectively. \"Homo sapiens europaeus\" was described as active, acute, and adventurous, whereas \"Homo sapiens afer\" was said to be crafty, lazy, and careless.\n\nThe 1775 treatise \"The Natural Varieties of Mankind\", by Johann Friedrich Blumenbach proposed five major divisions: the Caucasoid race, the Mongoloid race, the Ethiopian race (later termed \"Negroid\"), the American Indian race, and the Malayan race, but he did not propose any hierarchy among the races. Blumenbach also noted the graded transition in appearances from one group to adjacent groups and suggested that \"one variety of mankind does so sensibly pass into the other, that you cannot mark out the limits between them\".\n\nFrom the 17th through 19th centuries, the merging of folk beliefs about group differences with scientific explanations of those differences produced what Smedley has called an \"ideology of race\". According to this ideology, races are primordial, natural, enduring and distinct. It was further argued that some groups may be the result of mixture between formerly distinct populations, but that careful study could distinguish the ancestral races that had combined to produce admixed groups. Subsequent influential classifications by Georges Buffon, Petrus Camper and Christoph Meiners all classified \"Negros\" as inferior to Europeans. In the United States the racial theories of Thomas Jefferson were influential. He saw Africans as inferior to Whites especially in regards to their intellect, and imbued with unnatural sexual appetites, but described Native Americans as equals to whites.\n\nIn the last two decades of the 18th century, the theory of polygenism, the belief that different races had evolved separately in each continent and shared no common ancestor, was advocated in England by historian Edward Long and anatomist Charles White, in Germany by ethnographers Christoph Meiners and Georg Forster, and in France by Julien-Joseph Virey. In the US, Samuel George Morton, Josiah Nott and Louis Agassiz promoted this theory in the mid-nineteenth century. Polygenism was popular and most widespread in the 19th century, culminating in the founding of the Anthropological Society of London (1863), which, during the period of the American Civil War, broke away from the Ethnological Society of London and its monogenic stance, their underlined difference lying, relevantly, in the so-called \"Negro question\": a substantial racist view by the former, and a more liberal view on race by the latter.\n\nToday, all humans are classified as belonging to the species \"Homo sapiens\". However, this is not the first species of homininae: the first species of genus \"Homo\", \"Homo habilis\", evolved in East Africa at least 2 million years ago, and members of this species populated different parts of Africa in a relatively short time. \"Homo erectus\" evolved more than 1.8 million years ago, and by 1.5 million years ago had spread throughout Europe and Asia. Virtually all physical anthropologists agree that \"Archaic Homo sapiens\" (A group including the possible species \"H. heidelbergensis\", \"H. rhodesiensis\" and \"H. neanderthalensis\") evolved out of African \"Homo erectus\" (\"sensu lato\") or \"Homo ergaster.\" Anthropologists support the idea that anatomically modern humans (\"Homo sapiens\") evolved in North or East Africa from an archaic human species such as \"H. heidelbergensis\" and then migrated out of Africa, mixing with and replacing \"H. heidelbergensis\" and \"H. neanderthalensis\" populations throughout Europe and Asia, and \"H. rhodesiensis\" populations in Sub-Saharan Africa (a combination of the Out of Africa and Multiregional models).\n\nIn the early 20th century, many anthropologists taught that race was an entirely biologically phenomenon and that this was core to a person's behavior and identity, a position commonly called racial essentialism. This, coupled with a belief that linguistic, cultural, and social groups fundamentally existed along racial lines, formed the basis of what is now called scientific racism. After the Nazi eugenics program, along with the rise of anti-colonial movements, racial essentialism lost widespread popularity. New studies of culture and the fledgling field of population genetics undermined the scientific standing of racial essentialism, leading race anthropologists to revise their conclusions about the sources of phenotypic variation. A significant number of modern anthropologists and biologists in the West came to view race as an invalid genetic or biological designation.\n\nThe first to challenge the concept of race on empirical grounds were the anthropologists Franz Boas, who provided evidence of phenotypic plasticity due to environmental factors, and Ashley Montagu, who relied on evidence from genetics. E. O. Wilson then challenged the concept from the perspective of general animal systematics, and further rejected the claim that \"races\" were equivalent to \"subspecies\".\n\nHuman genetic variation is predominantly within races, continuous, and complex in structure, which is inconsistent with the concept of genetic human races. According to Jonathan Marks,\n\nThe term \"race\" in biology is used with caution because it can be ambiguous. Generally, when it is used it is effectively a synonym of \"subspecies\". (For animals, the only taxonomic unit below the species level is usually the subspecies; there are narrower infraspecific ranks in botany, and \"race\" does not correspond directly with any of them.) Traditionally, subspecies are seen as geographically isolated and genetically differentiated populations. Studies of human genetic variation show that human populations are not geographically isolated, and their genetic differences are far smaller than those among comparable subspecies.\n\nIn 1978, Sewall Wright suggested that human populations that have long inhabited separated parts of the world should, in general, be considered different subspecies by the criterion that most individuals of such populations can be allocated correctly by inspection. Wright argued that, \"It does not require a trained anthropologist to classify an array of Englishmen, West Africans, and Chinese with 100% accuracy by features, skin color, and type of hair despite so much variability within each of these groups that every individual can easily be distinguished from every other.\" While in practice subspecies are often defined by easily observable physical appearance, there is not necessarily any evolutionary significance to these observed differences, so this form of classification has become less acceptable to evolutionary biologists. Likewise this typological approach to race is generally regarded as discredited by biologists and anthropologists.\n\nSome researchers have tried to clarify the idea of race by equating it to the biological idea of the clade. A clade is a taxonomic group of organisms consisting of a single common ancestor and all the descendants of that ancestor (a monophyletic group). Every creature produced by sexual reproduction has two immediate lineages, one maternal and one paternal. Whereas Carl Linnaeus established a taxonomy of living organisms based on anatomical similarities and differences, cladistics seeks to establish a taxonomy – the phylogenetic tree – based on genetic similarities and differences and tracing the process of acquisition of multiple characteristics by single organisms.\n\nPhilosopher Robin Andreasen (2000) proposes that cladistics can be used to categorize human races biologically, and that races can be both biologically real and socially constructed. Andreasen cites tree diagrams of relative genetic distances among populations published by Luigi Cavalli-Sforza as the basis for a phylogenetic tree of human races: \"Cavalli-Sforza's research illustrates that it is possible to reconstruct human evolutionary history, and this means that it is possible to provide a cladistic definition of race\" (p. S661). Evolutionary biologist Alan Templeton (2013) argues that while \"Much of the recent scientific literature on human evolution portrays human populations as separate branches on an evolutionary tree,\" multiple lines of evidence falsify a phylogenetic tree structure, and confirm the presence of gene flow among populations. Jonathan Marks (2008) argues that Andreasen has misinterpreted the genetic literature: \"These trees are phenetic (based on similarity), rather than cladistic (based on based on monophyletic descent, that is from a series of unique ancestors).\" Marks, Templeton, and Cavalli-Sforza all conclude that genetics does not provide evidence of human races.\n\nAnthropologists Lieberman and Jackson (1995) also critique the use of cladistics to support concepts of race. They claim that \"the molecular and biochemical proponents of this model explicitly use racial categories \"in their initial grouping of samples\"\". For example, the large and highly diverse macroethnic groups of East Indians, North Africans, and Europeans are presumptively grouped as Caucasians prior to the analysis of their DNA variation. This is claimed to limit and skew interpretations, obscure other lineage relationships, deemphasize the impact of more immediate clinal environmental factors on genomic diversity, and can cloud our understanding of the true patterns of affinity. They suggest that the authors of these studies find support for racial distinctions only because they began by assuming the validity of race. \"For empirical reasons we prefer to place emphasis on clinal variation, which recognizes the existence of adaptive human hereditary variation and simultaneously stresses that such variation is not found in packages that can be labeled \"races\".\"\n\nHuman population groups are not monophyletic, as there appears to always have been considerable gene flow between human populations. Keith Hunley, Graciela Cabana, and Jeffrey Long analyzed the Human Genome Diversity Project sample of 1,037 individuals in 52 populations. They found that non-African populations are a taxonomic subgroup of African populations, that \"some African populations are equally related to other African populations and to non-African populations,\" and that \"outside of Africa, regional groupings of populations are nested inside one another, and many of them are not monophyletic.\" Rachel Caspari (2003) has argued that since no groups currently regarded as races are monophyletic, none of those groups can be clades.\n\nPopulation geneticists have debated whether the concept of \"population\" can provide a basis for a new conception of race. To do this, a working definition of population must be found. Surprisingly, there is no generally accepted concept of population that biologists use. Although the concept of population is central to ecology, evolutionary biology and conservation biology, most definitions of population rely on qualitative descriptions such as \"a group of organisms of the same species occupying a particular space at a particular time\". Waples and Gaggiotti identify two broad types of definitions for populations; those that fall into an \"ecological paradigm\", and those that fall into an \"evolutionary paradigm\". Examples of such definitions are:\n\nSesardic argues that when several traits are analyzed at the same time, forensic anthropologists can classify a person's race with an accuracy of close to 100% based on only skeletal remains. Sesardic's claim has been disputed by Massimo Pigliucci, who accused Sesardic of \"cherry pick[ing] the scientific evidence and reach[ing] conclusions that are contradicted by it.\" Specifically, Pigliucci argues that Sesardic misrepresented a paper by Ousley et al. (2009), and neglected to mention that they identified differentiation not just between individuals from different races, but also between individuals from different tribes, local environments, and time periods. This is discussed in a later section.\n\nOne crucial innovation in reconceptualizing genotypic and phenotypic variation was the anthropologist C. Loring Brace's observation that such variations, insofar as it is affected by natural selection, slow migration, or genetic drift, are distributed along geographic gradations or clines. For example, with respect to skin color in Europe and Africa, Brace writes:To this day, skin color grades by imperceptible means from Europe southward around the eastern end of the Mediterranean and up the Nile into Africa. From one end of this range to the other, there is no hint of a skin color boundary, and yet the spectrum runs from the lightest in the world at the northern edge to as dark as it is possible for humans to be at the equator.In part this is due to isolation by distance. This point called attention to a problem common to phenotype-based descriptions of races (for example, those based on hair texture and skin color): they ignore a host of other similarities and differences (for example, blood type) that do not correlate highly with the markers for race. Thus, anthropologist Frank Livingstone's conclusion, that since clines cross racial boundaries, \"there are no races, only clines\".\n\nIn a response to Livingstone, Theodore Dobzhansky argued that when talking about race one must be attentive to how the term is being used: \"I agree with Dr. Livingstone that if races have to be 'discrete units', then there are no races, and if 'race' is used as an 'explanation' of the human variability, rather than vice versa, then the explanation is invalid.\" He further argued that one could use the term race if one distinguished between \"race differences\" and \"the race concept\". The former refers to any distinction in gene frequencies between populations; the latter is \"a matter of judgment\". He further observed that even when there is clinal variation, \"Race differences are objectively ascertainable biological phenomena ... but it does not follow that racially distinct populations must be given racial (or subspecific) labels.\" In short, Livingstone and Dobzhansky agree that there are genetic differences among human beings; they also agree that the use of the race concept to classify people, and how the race concept is used, is a matter of social convention. They differ on whether the race concept remains a meaningful and useful social convention.\n\nIn 1964, the biologists Paul Ehrlich and Holm pointed out cases where two or more clines are distributed discordantly – for example, melanin is distributed in a decreasing pattern from the equator north and south; frequencies for the haplotype for beta-S hemoglobin, on the other hand, radiate out of specific geographical points in Africa. As the anthropologists Leonard Lieberman and Fatimah Linda Jackson observed, \"Discordant patterns of heterogeneity falsify any description of a population as if it were genotypically or even phenotypically homogeneous\".\n\nPatterns such as those seen in human physical and genetic variation as described above, have led to the consequence that the number and geographic location of any described races is highly dependent on the importance attributed to, and quantity of, the traits considered. Scientists discovered a skin-lighting mutation that partially accounts for the appearance of Light skin in humans (people who migrated out of Africa northward into what is now Europe) which they estimate occurred 20,000 to 50,000 years ago. The East Asians owe their relatively light skin to different mutations. On the other hand, the greater the number of traits (or alleles) considered, the more subdivisions of humanity are detected, since traits and gene frequencies do not always correspond to the same geographical location. Or as put it:\n\nAnother way to look at differences between populations is to measure genetic differences rather than physical differences between groups. The mid-20th-century anthropologist William C. Boyd defined race as: \"A population which differs significantly from other populations in regard to the frequency of one or more of the genes it possesses. It is an arbitrary matter which, and how many, gene loci we choose to consider as a significant 'constellation'\". Leonard Lieberman and Rodney Kirk have pointed out that \"the paramount weakness of this statement is that if one gene can distinguish races then the number of races is as numerous as the number of human couples reproducing.\" Moreover, the anthropologist Stephen Molnar has suggested that the discordance of clines inevitably results in a multiplication of races that renders the concept itself useless. The Human Genome Project states \"People who have lived in the same geographic region for many generations may have some alleles in common, but no allele will be found in all members of one population and in no members of any other.\" Massimo Pigliucci and Jonathan Kaplan argue that human races do exist, and that they correspond to the genetic classification of ecotypes, but that real human races do not correspond very much, if at all, to folk racial categories. In contrast, Walsh & Yun reviewed the literature in 2011 and reported that \"Genetic studies using very few chromosomal loci find that genetic polymorphisms divide human populations into clusters with almost 100 percent accuracy and that they correspond to the traditional anthropological categories.\"\n\nSome biologists argue that racial categories correlate with biological traits (e.g. phenotype), and that certain genetic markers have varying frequencies among human populations, some of which correspond more or less to traditional racial groupings. For this reason, there is no current consensus about whether racial categories can be considered to have significance for understanding human genetic variation.\n\nThe distribution of genetic variants within and among human populations are impossible to describe succinctly because of the difficulty of defining a population, the clinal nature of variation, and heterogeneity across the genome (Long and Kittles 2003). In general, however, an average of 85% of statistical genetic variation exists within local populations, ~7% is between local populations within the same continent, and ~8% of variation occurs between large groups living on different continents. The recent African origin theory for humans would predict that in Africa there exists a great deal more diversity than elsewhere and that diversity should decrease the further from Africa a population is sampled. Hence, the 85% average figure is misleading: Long and Kittles find that rather than 85% of human genetic diversity existing in all human populations, about 100% of human diversity exists in a single African population, whereas only about 60% of human genetic diversity exists in the least diverse population they analyzed (the Surui, a population derived from New Guinea). Statistical analysis that takes this difference into account confirms previous findings that, \"Western-based racial classifications have no taxonomic significance.\"\n\nA 2002 study of random biallelic genetic loci found little to no evidence that humans were divided into distinct biological groups.\n\nIn his 2003 paper, \"\", A. W. F. Edwards argued that rather than using a locus-by-locus analysis of variation to derive taxonomy, it is possible to construct a human classification system based on characteristic genetic patterns, or \"clusters\" inferred from multilocus genetic data. Geographically based human studies since have shown that such genetic clusters can be derived from analyzing of a large number of loci which can assort individuals sampled into groups analogous to traditional continental racial groups. Joanna Mountain and Neil Risch cautioned that while genetic clusters may one day be shown to correspond to phenotypic variations between groups, such assumptions were premature as the relationship between genes and complex traits remains poorly understood. However, Risch denied such limitations render the analysis useless: \"Perhaps just using someone's actual birth year is not a very good way of measuring age. Does that mean we should throw it out? ... Any category you come up with is going to be imperfect, but that doesn't preclude you from using it or the fact that it has utility.\"\n\nEarly human genetic cluster analysis studies were conducted with samples taken from ancestral population groups living at extreme geographic distances from each other. It was thought that such large geographic distances would maximize the genetic variation between the groups sampled in the analysis, and thus maximize the probability of finding cluster patterns unique to each group. In light of the historically recent acceleration of human migration (and correspondingly, human gene flow) on a global scale, further studies were conducted to judge the degree to which genetic cluster analysis can pattern ancestrally identified groups as well as geographically separated groups. One such study looked at a large multiethnic population in the United States, and \"detected only modest genetic differentiation between different current geographic locales within each race/ethnicity group. Thus, ancient geographic ancestry, which is highly correlated with self-identified race/ethnicity – as opposed to current residence – is the major determinant of genetic structure in the U.S. population.\" ()\n\nAnthropologists such as C. Loring Brace, the philosophers Jonathan Kaplan and Rasmus Winther, and the geneticist Joseph Graves, have argued that while there it is certainly possible to find biological and genetic variation that corresponds roughly to the groupings normally defined as \"continental races\", this is true for almost all geographically distinct populations. The cluster structure of the genetic data is therefore dependent on the initial hypotheses of the researcher and the populations sampled. When one samples continental groups, the clusters become continental; if one had chosen other sampling patterns, the clustering would be different. Weiss and Fullerton have noted that if one sampled only Icelanders, Mayans and Maoris, three distinct clusters would form and all other populations could be described as being clinally composed of admixtures of Maori, Icelandic and Mayan genetic materials. Kaplan and Winther therefore argue that, seen in this way, both Lewontin and Edwards are right in their arguments. They conclude that while racial groups are characterized by different allele frequencies, this does not mean that racial classification is a natural taxonomy of the human species, because multiple other genetic patterns can be found in human populations that crosscut racial distinctions. Moreover, the genomic data underdetermines whether one wishes to see subdivisions (i.e., splitters) or a continuum (i.e., lumpers). Under Kaplan and Winther's view, racial groupings are objective social constructions (see Mills 1998) that have conventional biological reality only insofar as the categories are chosen and constructed for pragmatic scientific reasons. In earlier work, Winther had identified \"diversity partitioning\" and \"clustering analysis\" as two separate methodologies, with distinct questions, assumptions, and protocols. Each is also associated with opposing ontological consequences vis-a-vis the metaphysics of race. Philosopher Lisa Gannett has argued that biogeographical ancestry, a concept devised by Mark Shriver and Tony Frudakis, is not an objective measure of the biological aspects of race as Shriver and Frudakis claim it is. She argues that it is actually just a \"local category shaped by the U.S. context of its production, especially the forensic aim of being able to predict the race or ethnicity of an unknown suspect based on DNA found at the crime scene.\"\n\nRecent studies of human genetic clustering have included a debate over how genetic variation is organized, with clusters and clines as the main possible orderings. argued for smooth, clinal genetic variation in ancestral populations even in regions previously considered racially homogeneous, with the apparent gaps turning out to be artifacts of sampling techniques. disputed this and offered an analysis of the Human Genetic Diversity Panel showing that there were small discontinuities in the smooth genetic variation for ancestral populations at the location of geographic barriers such as the Sahara, the Oceans, and the Himalayas. Nonetheless, stated that their findings “should not be taken as evidence of our support of any particular concept of biological race... Genetic differences among human populations derive mainly from gradations in allele frequencies rather than from distinctive 'diagnostic' genotypes.\" Using a sample of 40 populations distributed roughly evenly across the Earth's land surface, found that \"genetic diversity is distributed in a more clinal pattern when more geographically intermediate populations are sampled.\"\n\nGuido Barbujani has written that human genetic variation is generally distributed continuously in gradients across much of Earth, and that there is no evidence that genetic boundaries between human populations exist as would be necessary for human races to exist.\n\nOver time, human genetic variation has formed a nested structure that is inconsistent with the concept of races that have evolved independently of one another.\n\nAs anthropologists and other evolutionary scientists have shifted away from the language of race to the term \"population\" to talk about genetic differences, historians, cultural anthropologists and other social scientists re-conceptualized the term \"race\" as a cultural category or social construct, i.e., a way among many possible ways in which a society chooses to divide its members into categories.\n\nMany social scientists have replaced the word race with the word \"ethnicity\" to refer to self-identifying groups based on beliefs concerning shared culture, ancestry and history. Alongside empirical and conceptual problems with \"race\", following the Second World War, evolutionary and social scientists were acutely aware of how beliefs about race had been used to justify discrimination, apartheid, slavery, and genocide. This questioning gained momentum in the 1960s during the civil rights movement in the United States and the emergence of numerous anti-colonial movements worldwide. They thus came to believe that race itself is a social construct, a concept that was believed to correspond to an objective reality but which was believed in because of its social functions.\n\nCraig Venter and Francis Collins of the National Institute of Health jointly made the announcement of the mapping of the human genome in 2000. Upon examining the data from the genome mapping, Venter realized that although the genetic variation within the human species is on the order of 1–3% (instead of the previously assumed 1%), the types of variations do not support notion of genetically defined races. Venter said, \"Race is a social concept. It's not a scientific one. There are no bright lines (that would stand out), if we could compare all the sequenced genomes of everyone on the planet.\" \"When we try to apply science to try to sort out these social differences, it all falls apart.\"\n\nStephan Palmié asserted that race \"is not a thing but a social relation\"; or, in the words of Katya Gibel Mevorach, \"a metonym\", \"a human invention whose criteria for differentiation are neither universal nor fixed but have always been used to manage difference.\" As such, the use of the term \"race\" itself must be analyzed. Moreover, they argue that biology will not explain why or how people use the idea of race: History and social relationships will.\n\nImani Perry has argued that race \"is produced by social arrangements and political decision making.\" Perry explains race more in stating, \"race is something that happens, rather than something that is. It is dynamic, but it holds no objective truth.\"\n\nSome scholars have challenged the notion that race is primarily a social construction by arguing that race has a biological basis. One of the researchers, Neil Risch, noted: \"we looked at the correlation between genetic structure [based on microsatellite markers] versus self-description, we found 99.9% concordance between the two. We actually had a higher discordance rate between self-reported sex and markers on the X chromosome! So you could argue that sex is also a problematic category. And there are differences between sex and gender; self-identification may not be correlated with biology perfectly. And there is sexism.\"\n\nCompared to 19th-century United States, 20th-century Brazil was characterized by a perceived relative absence of sharply defined racial groups. According to anthropologist Marvin Harris, this pattern reflects a different history and different social relations.\n\nBasically, race in Brazil was \"biologized\", but in a way that recognized the difference between ancestry (which determines genotype) and phenotypic differences. There, racial identity was not governed by rigid descent rule, such as the one-drop rule, as it was in the United States. A Brazilian child was never automatically identified with the racial type of one or both parents, nor were there only a very limited number of categories to choose from, to the extent that full siblings can pertain to different racial groups.\n\nOver a dozen racial categories would be recognized in conformity with all the possible combinations of hair color, hair texture, eye color, and skin color. These types grade into each other like the colors of the spectrum, and not one category stands significantly isolated from the rest. That is, race referred preferentially to appearance, not heredity, and appearance is a poor indication of ancestry, because only a few genes are responsible for someone's skin color and traits: a person who is considered white may have more African ancestry than a person who is considered black, and the reverse can be also true about European ancestry. The complexity of racial classifications in Brazil reflects the extent of miscegenation in Brazilian society, a society that remains highly, but not strictly, stratified along color lines. These socioeconomic factors are also significant to the limits of racial lines, because a minority of \"pardos\", or brown people, are likely to start declaring themselves white or black if socially upward, and being seen as relatively \"whiter\" as their perceived social status increases (much as in other regions of Latin America).\n\nFluidity of racial categories aside, the \"biologification\" of race in Brazil referred above would match contemporary concepts of race in the United States quite closely, though, if Brazilians are supposed to choose their race as one among, Asian and Indigenous apart, three IBGE's census categories. While assimilated Amerindians and people with very high quantities of Amerindian ancestry are usually grouped as \"caboclos\", a subgroup of \"pardos\" which roughly translates as both mestizo and hillbilly, for those of lower quantity of Amerindian descent a higher European genetic contribution is expected to be grouped as a \"pardo\". In several genetic tests, people with less than 60-65% of European descent and 5–10% of Amerindian descent usually cluster with Afro-Brazilians (as reported by the individuals), or 6.9% of the population, and those with about 45% or more of Subsaharan contribution most times do so (in average, Afro-Brazilian DNA was reported to be about 50% Subsaharan African, 37% European and 13% Amerindian).\n\nIf a more consistent report with the genetic groups in the gradation of miscegenation is to be considered (e.g. that would not cluster people with a balanced degree of African and non-African ancestry in the black group instead of the multiracial one, unlike elsewhere in Latin America where people of high quantity of African descent tend to classify themselves as mixed), more people would report themselves as white and \"pardo\" in Brazil (47.7% and 42.4% of the population as of 2010, respectively), because by research its population is believed to have between 65 and 80% of autosomal European ancestry, in average (also >35% of European mt-DNA and >95% of European Y-DNA).\n\nFrom the last decades of the Empire until the 1950s, the proportion of the white population increased significantly while Brazil welcomed 5.5 million immigrants between 1821 and 1932, not much behind its neighbor Argentina with 6.4 million, and it received more European immigrants in its colonial history than the United States. Between 1500 and 1760, 700.000 Europeans settled in Brazil, while 530.000 Europeans settled in the United States for the same given time. Thus, the historical construction of race in Brazilian society dealt primarily with gradations between persons of majority European ancestry and little minority groups with otherwise lower quantity therefrom in recent times.\n\nAccording to European Council:\n\nThe European Union uses the terms racial origin and ethnic origin synonymously in its documents and according to it \"the use of the term 'racial origin' in this directive does not imply an acceptance of such [racial] theories\". Haney López warns that using \"race\" as a category within the law tends to legitimize its existence in the popular imagination. In the diverse geographic context of Europe, ethnicity and ethnic origin are arguably more resonant and are less encumbered by the ideological baggage associated with \"race\". In European context, historical resonance of \"race\" underscores its problematic nature. In some states, it is strongly associated with laws promulgated by the Nazi and Fascist governments in Europe during the 1930s and 1940s. Indeed, in 1996, the European Parliament adopted a resolution stating that \"the term should therefore be avoided in all official texts\".\n\nThe concept of racial origin relies on the notion that human beings can be separated into biologically distinct \"races\", an idea generally rejected by the scientific community. Since all human beings belong to the same species, the ECRI (European Commission against Racism and Intolerance) rejects theories based on the existence of different \"races\". However, in its Recommendation ECRI uses this term in order to ensure that those persons who are generally and erroneously perceived as belonging to \"another race\" are not excluded from the protection provided for by the legislation. The law claims to reject the existence of \"race\", yet penalize situations where someone is treated less favourably on this ground.\n\nSince the end of the Second World War, France has become an ethnically diverse country. Today, approximately five percent of the French population is non-European and non-white. This does not approach the number of non-white citizens in the United States (roughly 28–37%, depending on how Latinos are classified (see Demographics of the United States). Nevertheless, it amounts to at least three million people, and has forced the issues of ethnic diversity onto the French policy agenda. France has developed an approach to dealing with ethnic problems that stands in contrast to that of many advanced, industrialized countries. Unlike the United States, Britain, or even the Netherlands, France maintains a \"color-blind\" model of public policy. This means that it targets virtually no policies directly at racial or ethnic groups. Instead, it uses geographic or class criteria to address issues of social inequalities. It has, however, developed an extensive anti-racist policy repertoire since the early 1970s. Until recently, French policies focused primarily on issues of hate speech – going much further than their American counterparts – and relatively less on issues of discrimination in jobs, housing, and in provision of goods and services.\n\nIn the United States, there is disagreement on the nature of race within the biological sciences, whereas the social constructionist view is dominant in the social sciences; over time, biological views on race have become more controversial across all disciplines, with clear divides along generational, cultural, and racial lines.\n\nThe immigrants to the Americas came from every region of Europe, Africa, and Asia. They mixed among themselves and with the indigenous inhabitants of the continent. In the United States most people who self-identify as African–American have some European ancestors, while many people who identify as European American have some African or Amerindian ancestors.\n\nSince the early history of the United States, Amerindians, African–Americans, and European Americans have been classified as belonging to different races. Efforts to track mixing between groups led to a proliferation of categories, such as mulatto and octoroon. The criteria for membership in these races diverged in the late 19th century. During Reconstruction, increasing numbers of Americans began to consider anyone with \"one drop\" of known \"Black blood\" to be Black, regardless of appearance. By the early 20th century, this notion was made statutory in many states. Amerindians continue to be defined by a certain percentage of \"Indian blood\" (called \"blood quantum\"). To be White one had to have perceived \"pure\" White ancestry. The one-drop rule or hypodescent rule refers to the convention of defining a person as racially black if he or she has any known African ancestry. This rule meant that those that were mixed race but with some discernible African ancestry were defined as black. The one-drop rule is specific to not only those with African ancestry but to the United States, making it a particularly African-American experience.\n\nThe decennial censuses conducted since 1790 in the United States created an incentive to establish racial categories and fit people into these categories.\n\nThe term \"Hispanic\" as an ethnonym emerged in the 20th century with the rise of migration of laborers from the Spanish-speaking countries of Latin America to the United States. Today, the word \"Latino\" is often used as a synonym for \"Hispanic\". The definitions of both terms are non-race specific, and include people who consider themselves to be of distinct races (Black, White, Amerindian, Asian, and mixed groups). However, there is a common misconception in the US that Hispanic/Latino is a race or sometimes even that national origins such as Mexican, Cuban, Colombian, Salvadoran, etc. are races. In contrast to \"Latino\" or \"Hispanic\", \"Anglo\" refers to non-Hispanic White Americans or non-Hispanic European Americans, most of whom speak the English language but are not necessarily of English descent.\n\nOne result of debates over the meaning and validity of the concept of race is that the current literature across different disciplines regarding human variation lacks consensus, though within some fields, such as some branches of anthropology, there is strong consensus. Some studies use the word race in its early essentialist taxonomic sense. Many others still use the term race, but use it to mean a population, clade, or haplogroup. Others eschew the concept of race altogether, and use the concept of population as a less problematic unit of analysis.\n\nEduardo Bonilla-Silva, Sociology professor at Duke University, remarks, \"I contend that racism is, more than anything else, a matter of group power; it is about a dominant racial group (whites) striving to maintain its systemic advantages and minorities fighting to subvert the racial status quo.\" The types of practices that take place under this new color-blind racism is subtle, institutionalized, and supposedly not racial. Color-blind racism thrives on the idea that race is no longer an issue in the United States. There are contradictions between the alleged color-blindness of most whites and the persistence of a color-coded system of inequality. In Poland, the race concept was rejected by 25 percent of anthropologists in 2001, although: \"Unlike the U.S. anthropologists, Polish anthropologists tend to regard race as a term without taxonomic value, often as a substitute for population.\"\n\nThe concept of typological race classification in physical anthropology lost credibility around the 1960s and is now considered untenable.\n\nWagner et al. (2017) surveyed 3,286 American anthropologists' views on race and genetics, including both cultural and biological andthropologists. They found a consensus among them that biological races do not exist in humans, but that race does exist insofar as the social experiences of members of different races can have significant effects on health.\n\nWang, Štrkalj et al. (2003) examined the use of race as a biological concept in research papers published in China's only biological anthropology journal, \"Acta Anthropologica Sinica\". The study showed that the race concept was widely used among Chinese anthropologists. In a 2007 review paper, Štrkalj suggested that the stark contrast of the racial approach between the United States and China was due to the fact that race is a factor for social cohesion among the ethnically diverse people of China, whereas \"race\" is a very sensitive issue in America and the racial approach is considered to undermine social cohesion – with the result that in the socio-political context of US academics scientists are encouraged not to use racial categories, whereas in China they are encouraged to use them.\n\nLieberman et al. in a 2004 study researched the acceptance of race as a concept among anthropologists in the United States, Canada, the Spanish speaking areas, Europe, Russia and China. Rejection of race ranged from high to low, with the highest rejection rate in the United States and Canada, a moderate rejection rate in Europe, and the lowest rejection rate in Russia and China. Methods used in the studies reported included questionnaires and content analysis.\n\nKaszycka et al. (2009) in 2002–2003 surveyed European anthropologists' opinions toward the biological race concept. Three factors, country of academic education, discipline, and age, were found to be significant in differentiating the replies. Those educated in Western Europe, physical anthropologists, and middle-aged persons rejected race more frequently than those educated in Eastern Europe, people in other branches of science, and those from both younger and older generations.\" The survey shows that the views on race are sociopolitically (ideologically) influenced and highly dependent on education.\"\n\nSince the second half of the 20th century, physical anthropology in the United States has moved away from a typological understanding of human biological diversity towards a genomic and population-based perspective. Anthropologists have tended to understand race as a social classification of humans based on phenotype and ancestry as well as cultural factors, as the concept is understood in the social sciences. Since 1932, an increasing number of college textbooks introducing physical anthropology have rejected race as a valid concept: from 1932 to 1976, only seven out of thirty-two rejected race; from 1975 to 1984, thirteen out of thirty-three rejected race; from 1985 to 1993, thirteen out of nineteen rejected race. According to one academic journal entry, where 78 percent of the articles in the 1931 \"Journal of Physical Anthropology\" employed these or nearly synonymous terms reflecting a bio-race paradigm, only 36 percent did so in 1965, and just 28 percent did in 1996.\n\nThe \"Statement on 'Race'\" (1998) composed by a select committee of anthropologists and issued by the executive board of the American Anthropological Association as a statement they \"believe [...] represents generally the contemporary thinking and scholarly positions of a majority of anthropologists\", declares:\n\nA survey, taken in 1985 , asked 1,200 American scientists how many disagree with the following proposition: \"There are biological races in the species \"Homo sapiens\".\" The responses were for anthropologists:\nThe figure for physical anthropologists at PhD granting departments was slightly higher, rising from 41% to 42%, with 50% agreeing. Lieberman's study also showed that more women reject the concept of race than men. This survey, however, did not specify any particular definition of race (although it did clearly specify \"biological race\" within the \"species\" \"Homo sapiens\"); it is difficult to say whether those who supported the statement thought of race in taxonomic or population terms.\n\nThe same survey, taken in 1999, showed the following changing results for anthropologists:\n\nHowever, a line of research conducted by Cartmill (1998) seemed to limit the scope of Lieberman's finding that there was \"a significant degree of change in the status of the race concept\". Goran Štrkalj has argued that this may be because Lieberman and collaborators had looked at all the members of the American Anthropological Association irrespective of their field of research interest, while Cartmill had looked specifically at biological anthropologists interested in human variation.\n\nAccording to the 2000 edition of a popular physical anthropology textbook, forensic anthropologists are overwhelmingly in support of the idea of the basic biological reality of human races. Forensic physical anthropologist and professor George W. Gill has said that the idea that race is only skin deep \"is simply not true, as any experienced forensic anthropologist will affirm\" and \"Many morphological features tend to follow geographic boundaries coinciding often with climatic zones. This is not surprising since the selective forces of climate are probably the primary forces of nature that have shaped human races with regard not only to skin color and hair form but also the underlying bony structures of the nose, cheekbones, etc. (For example, more prominent noses humidify air better.)\" While he can see good arguments for both sides, the complete denial of the opposing evidence \"seems to stem largely from socio-political motivation and not science at all\". He also states that many biological anthropologists see races as real yet \"not one introductory textbook of physical anthropology even presents that perspective as a possibility. In a case as flagrant as this, we are not dealing with science but rather with blatant, politically motivated censorship\".\n\nIn partial response to Gill's statement, Professor of Biological Anthropology C. Loring Brace argues that the reason laymen and biological anthropologists can determine the geographic ancestry of an individual can be explained by the fact that biological characteristics are clinally distributed across the planet, and that does not translate into the concept of race. He states: \n\"Race\" is still sometimes used within forensic anthropology (when analyzing skeletal remains), biomedical research, and race-based medicine. Brace has criticized this, the practice of forensic anthropologists for using the controversial concept \"race\" out of convention when they in fact should be talking about regional ancestry. He argues that while forensic anthropologists can determine that a skeletal remain comes from a person with ancestors in a specific region of Africa, categorizing that skeletal as being \"black\" is a socially constructed category that is only meaningful in the particular context of the United States, and which is not itself scientifically valid.\n\nIn 2007, Ann Morning interviewed over 40 American biologists and anthropologists and found significant disagreements over the nature of race, with no one viewpoint holding a majority among either group. Morning also argues that a third position, \"antiessentialism\", which holds that race is not a useful concept for biologists, should be introduced into this debate in addition to \"constructionism\" and \"essentialism\".\n\nIn the same 1985 survey , 16% of the surveyed biologists and 36% of the surveyed developmental psychologists disagreed with the proposition: \"There are biological races in the species \"Homo sapiens\".\"\n\nThe authors of the study also examined 77 college textbooks in biology and 69 in physical anthropology published between 1932 and 1989. Physical anthropology texts argued that biological races exist until the 1970s, when they began to argue that races do not exist. In contrast, biology textbooks did not undergo such a reversal but many instead dropped their discussion of race altogether. The authors attributed this to biologists trying to avoid discussing the political implications of racial classifications, instead of discussing them, and to the ongoing discussions in biology about the validity of the concept \"subspecies\". The authors also noted that some widely used textbooks in biology such as Douglas J. Futuyma's 1986 \"Evolutionary Biology\" had abandoned the race concept, \"The concept of race, masking the overwhelming genetic similarity of all peoples and the mosaic patterns of variation that do not correspond to racial divisions, is not only socially dysfunctional but is biologically indefensible as well (pp. 5 18–5 19).\"\n\nA 1994 examination of 32 English sport/exercise science textbooks found that 7 (21.9%) claimed that there are biophysical differences due to race that might explain differences in sports performance, 24 (75%) did not mention nor refute the concept, and 1 (3.12%) expressed caution with the idea.\n\nIn February 2001, the editors of \"Archives of Pediatrics and Adolescent Medicine\" asked \"authors to not use race and ethnicity when there is no biological, scientific, or sociological reason for doing so.\" The editors also stated that \"analysis by race and ethnicity has become an analytical knee-jerk reflex.\" \"Nature Genetics\" now ask authors to \"explain why they make use of particular ethnic groups or populations, and how classification was achieved.\"\n\nMorning (2008) looked at high school biology textbooks during the 1952–2002 period and initially found a similar pattern with only 35% directly discussing race in the 1983–92 period from initially 92% doing so. However, this has increased somewhat after this to 43%. More indirect and brief discussions of race in the context of medical disorders have increased from none to 93% of textbooks. In general, the material on race has moved from surface traits to genetics and evolutionary history. The study argues that the textbooks' fundamental message about the existence of races has changed little.\n\nSurveying views on race in the scientific community in 2008, Morning says that they often split along culture and demographic lines and that, since Lieberman's surveys, biologists have failed to come to a clear consensus, noting that \"At best, one can conclude that biologists and anthropologists now appear equally divided in their beliefs about the nature of race.\"\n\nGissis (2008) examined several important American and British journals in genetics, epidemiology and medicine for their content during the 1946–2003 period. He wrote that \"Based upon my findings I argue that the category of race only \"seemingly\" disappeared from scientific discourse after World War II and has had a \"fluctuating yet continuous use\" during the time span from 1946 to 2003, and has even \"become more pronounced from the early 1970s on\"\".\n\n33 health services researchers from differing geographic regions were interviewed in a 2008 study. The researchers recognized the problems with racial and ethnic variables but the majority still believed these variables were necessary and useful.\n\nA 2010 examination of 18 widely used English anatomy textbooks found that they all represented human biological variation in superficial and outdated ways, many of them making use of the race concept in ways that were current in 1950s anthropology. The authors recommended that anatomical education should describe human anatomical variation in more detail and rely on newer research that demonstrates the inadequacies of simple racial typologies.\n\n\"Black's Law Dictionary\" defines race as \"[a]n ethnical stock; a great division of mankind [sic] having in common certain distinguishing physical peculiarities constituting a comprehensive class appearance.\" \n\nLester Frank Ward (1841-1913), considered to be one of the founders of American sociology, rejected notions that there were fundamental differences that distinguished one race from another, although he acknowledged that social conditions differed dramatically by race. At the turn of the 20th century, sociologists viewed the concept of race in ways that were shaped by the scientific racism of the 19th and early 20th centuries. Many sociologists focused on African Americans, called Negroes at that time, and claimed that they were inferior to whites. White sociologist Charlotte Perkins Gilman (1860–1935), for example, used biological arguments to claim the inferiority of African Americans. American sociologist Charles H. Cooley (1864–1929) theorized that differences among races were \"natural,\" and that biological differences result in differences in intellectual abilities Edward Alsworth Ross (1866-1951), also an important figure in the founding of American sociology, and an eugenicist, believed that whites were the superior race, and that there were essential differences in \"temperament\" among races. In 1910, the \"Journal\" published an article by Ulysses G. Weatherly (1865-1940) that called for white supremacy and segregation of the races to protect racial purity.\n\nW. E. B. Du Bois (1868–1963), one of the first African-American sociologists, was the first sociologist to use sociological concepts and empirical research methods to analyze race as a social construct instead of a biological reality. Beginning in 1899 with his book \"The Philadelphia Negro\", Du Bois studied and wrote about race and racism throughout his career. In his work, he contended that social class, colonialism, and capitalism shaped ideas about race and racial categories. Social scientists largely abandoned scientific racism and biological reasons for racial categorization schemes by the 1930s. Sociologists associated with the Chicago School theorized that notions about race were socially constructed, and were not biological. In 1978, William Julius Wilson (1935–) argued that race and racial classification systems were declining in significance, and that instead, social class more accurately described what sociologists had earlier understood as race. By 1986, sociologists Michael Omi and Howard Winant successfully introduced the concept of racial formation to describe the process by which racial categories are created. Omi and Winant assert that \"there is no biological basis for distinguishing among human groups along the lines of race.\" Today, sociologists generally understand race and racial categories as socially constructed, and reject racial categorization schemes that depend on biological differences.\n\nIn the United States, federal government policy promotes the use of racially categorized data to identify and address health disparities between racial or ethnic groups. In clinical settings, race has sometimes been considered in the diagnosis and treatment of medical conditions. Doctors have noted that some medical conditions are more prevalent in certain racial or ethnic groups than in others, without being sure of the cause of those differences. Recent interest in race-based medicine, or race-targeted pharmacogenomics, has been fueled by the proliferation of human genetic data which followed the decoding of the human genome in the first decade of the twenty-first century. There is an active debate among biomedical researchers about the meaning and importance of race in their research. Proponents of the use of racial categories in biomedicine argue that continued use of racial categorizations in biomedical research and clinical practice makes possible the application of new genetic findings, and provides a clue to diagnosis. Biomedical researchers' positions on race fall into two main camps: those who consider the concept of race to have no biological basis and those who consider it to have the potential to be biologically meaningful. Members of the latter camp often base their arguments around the potential to create genome-based personalized medicine.\n\nOther researchers point out that finding a difference in disease prevalence between two socially defined groups does not necessarily imply genetic causation of the difference. They suggest that medical practices should maintain their focus on the individual rather than an individual's membership to any group. They argue that overemphasizing genetic contributions to health disparities carries various risks such as reinforcing stereotypes, promoting racism or ignoring the contribution of non-genetic factors to health disparities. International epidemiological data show that living conditions rather than race make the biggest difference in health outcomes even for diseases that have \"race-specific\" treatments. Some studies have found that patients are reluctant to accept racial categorization in medical practice.\n\nIn an attempt to provide general descriptions that may facilitate the job of law enforcement officers seeking to apprehend suspects, the United States FBI employs the term \"race\" to summarize the general appearance (skin color, hair texture, eye shape, and other such easily noticed characteristics) of individuals whom they are attempting to apprehend. From the perspective of law enforcement officers, it is generally more important to arrive at a description that will readily suggest the general appearance of an individual than to make a scientifically valid categorization by DNA or other such means. Thus, in addition to assigning a wanted individual to a racial category, such a description will include: height, weight, eye color, scars and other distinguishing characteristics.\n\nCriminal justice agencies in England and Wales use at least two separate racial/ethnic classification systems when reporting crime, as of 2010. One is the system used in the 2001 Census when individuals identify themselves as belonging to a particular ethnic group: W1 (White-British), W2 (White-Irish), W9 (Any other white background); M1 (White and black Caribbean), M2 (White and black African), M3 (White and Asian), M9 (Any other mixed background); A1 (Asian-Indian), A2 (Asian-Pakistani), A3 (Asian-Bangladeshi), A9 (Any other Asian background); B1 (Black Caribbean), B2 (Black African), B3 (Any other black background); O1 (Chinese), O9 (Any other). The other is categories used by the police when they visually identify\nsomeone as belonging to an ethnic group, e.g. at the time of a stop and search or an arrest: White – North European (IC1), White – South European (IC2), Black (IC3), Asian (IC4), Chinese, Japanese, or South East Asian (IC5), Middle Eastern (IC6), and Unknown (IC0). \"IC\" stands for \"Identification Code;\" these items are also referred to as Phoenix classifications. Officers are instructed to \"record the response that has been given\" even if the person gives an answer which may be incorrect; their own perception of the person's ethnic background is recorded separately. Comparability of the information being recorded by officers was brought into question by the Office for National Statistics (ONS) in September 2007, as part of its Equality Data Review; one problem cited was the number of reports that contained an ethnicity of \"Not Stated.\"\n\nIn many countries, such as France, the state is legally banned from maintaining data based on race, which often makes the police issue wanted notices to the public that include labels like \"dark skin complexion\", etc.\n\nIn the United States, the practice of racial profiling has been ruled to be both unconstitutional and a violation of civil rights. There is active debate regarding the cause of a marked correlation between the recorded crimes, punishments meted out, and the country's populations. Many consider \"de facto\" racial profiling an example of institutional racism in law enforcement. The history of misuse of racial categories to impact adversely one or more groups and/or to offer protection and advantage to another has a clear impact on debate of the legitimate use of known phenotypical or genotypical characteristics tied to the presumed race of both victims and perpetrators by the government.\n\nMass incarceration in the United States disproportionately impacts African American and Latino communities. Michelle Alexander, author of \"The New Jim Crow: Mass Incarceration in the Age of Colorblindness\" (2010), argues that mass incarceration is best understood as not only a system of overcrowded prisons. Mass incarceration is also, \"the larger web of laws, rules, policies, and customs that control those labeled criminals both in and out of prison.\" She defines it further as \"a system that locks people not only behind actual bars in actual prisons, but also behind virtual bars and virtual walls\", illustrating the second-class citizenship that is imposed on a disproportionate number of people of color, specifically African-Americans. She compares mass incarceration to Jim Crow laws, stating that both work as racial caste systems.\n\nMany research findings appear to agree that the impact of victim race in the IPV arrest decision might possibly include a racial bias in favor of white victims. A 2011 study in a national sample of IPV arrests found that female arrest was more likely if the male victim was white and the female offender was black, while male arrest was more likely if the female victim was white. For both female and male arrest in IPV cases, situations involving married couples were more likely to lead to arrest compared to dating or divorced couples. More research is needed to understand agency and community factors that influence police behavior and how discrepancies in IPV interventions/ tools of justice can be addressed.\n\nRecent work using DNA cluster analysis to determine race background has been used by some criminal investigators to narrow their search for the identity of both suspects and victims. Proponents of DNA profiling in criminal investigations cite cases where leads based on DNA analysis proved useful, but the practice remains controversial among medical ethicists, defense lawyers and some in law enforcement.\n\nSimilarly, forensic anthropologists draw on highly heritable morphological features of human remains (e.g. cranial measurements) to aid in the identification of the body, including in terms of race. In a 1992 article, anthropologist Norman Sauer noted that anthropologists had generally abandoned the concept of race as a valid representation of human biological diversity, except for forensic anthropologists. He asked, \"If races don't exist, why are forensic anthropologists so good at identifying them?\" He concluded:\n\nIdentification of the ancestry of an individual is dependent upon knowledge of the frequency and distribution of phenotypic traits in a population. This does not necessitate the use of a racial classification scheme based on unrelated traits, although the race concept is widely used in medical and legal contexts in the United States. Some studies have reported that races can be identified with a high degree of accuracy using certain methods, such as that developed by Giles and Elliot. However, this method sometimes fails to be replicated in other times and places; for instance, when the method was re-tested to identify Native Americans, the average rate of accuracy dropped from 85% to 33%. Prior information about the individual (e.g. Census data) is also important in allowing the accurate identification of the individual's \"race\".\n\nIn a different approach, anthropologist C. Loring Brace said:\n\nIn association with a NOVA program in 2000 about race, he wrote an essay opposing use of the term.\n\nA 2002 study found that about 13% of human craniometric variation existed between regions, while 81% existed within regions (the other 6% existed between local populations within the same region). In contrast, the opposite pattern of genetic variation was observed for skin color (which is often used to define race), with 88% of variation between regions. The study concluded that \"The apportionment of genetic diversity in skin color is atypical, and cannot be used for purposes of classification.\"\nSimilarly, a 2009 study found that craniometrics could be used accurately to determine what part of the world someone was from based on their cranium; however, this study also found that there were no abrupt boundaries that separated craniometric variation into distinct racial groups. Another 2009 study showed that American blacks and whites had different skeletal morphologies, and that significant patterning in variation in these traits exists within continents. This suggests that classifying humans into races based on skeletal characteristics would necessitate many different \"races\" being defined.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49473067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49473067", "title": "Ringing Bells Private Limited", "text": "Ringing Bells Private Limited\n\nRinging Bells Private Limited was a company based in Noida (India), registered on 16 September 2015. It was later described as a \"ponzi scheme\".\n\nThe company attracted attention when it announced the Freedom 251, a 3G smartphone, at a price of ₹ 251. That would make it the world's cheapest smartphone.\n\nRinging Bells MD Mohit Goel claimed on 16 December 2016 that the company has already delivered 70000 phones and the remaining phones would be delivered soon.\n\nThere are suggestions that the Freedom 251 sale is a scam. It is alleged that the phone looks like a Chinese phone with the original brand label covered with whitener. The icons shown on screen shots are copied from Apple's iPhone. MP Kirit Somaiya describes the offer as a \"huge scam\" and has asked the government of Uttar Pradesh to investigate.\n\nAs a result of these concerns, the payment gateway facilitator PayUBiz decided to withhold payment to Ringing Bells until the items were dispatched. In response, Ringing Bells stated that they would accept payment by cash-on-delivery for those customers who had placed orders but had been unable to make payment through the payment gateway before the offer closed.\n\nRinging Bells has also been accused of fraud and non-payment of dues by its customer services provider Cyfuture.\n\nGoel was detained on 24 February 2017 over fraud allegations, after the owner of Ghaziabad-based Ayam Enterprises filed an FIR alleging that Ringing Bells \"defrauded\" it of Rs. 16 lakh. Mohit Goel has been arrested on allegations of fraud. Several analysts have described the phone as a \"ponzi scheme\". Goel was again arrested by the Delhi Police on June 10, 2018 for allegedly extorting money in lieu of settling a rape case.\n"}
{"id": "37868559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37868559", "title": "Rural Alliances", "text": "Rural Alliances\n\nRural Alliances is an international project funded by the European Union through the Interreg \"North West Europe\" European Regional Development Fund IVB funding scheme aimed at bringing rural businesses together with their communities to stimulate local economies and services.\n\nTwelve partner organisations from six different EU countries are working together. The twelve are:\n\nBelgium\n\nFrance\n\nGermany\n\nRepublic of Ireland\n\nNetherlands\n\nUnited Kingdom\n\nThe project was initiated in 2011 with a meeting in Brecon, Wales. A project officer is employed by the Brecon Beacons National Park Authority to develop clusters of activity in several areas of the park.\n\nAlliance building Blueprint Prototype\n\nThe University Partners have been working closely with the partners to explore and develop concepts and frameworks to capture, record and share successful alliance building methods in order to develop an Alliance Building Blueprint. To begin this process, they held a Master Class with all the partners in February 2012 in Leuven, Belgium where key concepts were discussed and agreed, including debates on what constitutes a rural area, what is a community, and how many members are needed to make up an Alliance. This was followed up with research, interviews and further workshops with the partners to explore alliance building methods in the different areas.\n\nAt this early stage in the project an outline concept has been developed. This shows a cyclic phase from building the alliance, its management, reviewing its development and growth, and looking towards long-term planning.\n\n---abbp---\n\nKey components include a good contact database; a method of plotting the skills and capacity that exist in the alliance or in the wider community; creating an atmosphere of open dialogue; identifying and supporting champions who are visionary and “get things done”, and a good understanding of local context, what other initiatives are competing, what are the risks and what are the rewards.\n\nThis concept will now be developed and modified through case studies on the different alliances in 2013/4 to explore the methods used to make them successful. Research will be done to assess how useful tools and techniques can be transferred between alliances, to ensure that lessons are being learned and communicated across the partnership, and monitoring and evaluation will take place to ensure the viability, usefulness and relevance of the Blueprint model.\n\nRural Vibrancy Measuring Index (RVMI)\n\nThe Rural Vibrancy Measuring Index is a tool that is currently being developed by the University partners of the Rural Alliances project. The current stage of the RVMI represents the outcomes of several transnational workshops, the evaluation of partner questionnaires and further literature research.\nThe purpose of this index is to give local communities a tool to determine their vibrancy. Using the RVMI should allow local communities to acquire knowledge on the strengths and weaknesses of their community and help them to allocate their resources more efficiently and develop their community.\n\nDefinition ‘Rural Vibrancy'\n\n‘Rural Vibrancy’ describes the nature of a rural community, which is characterized by active involvement and the creative, dynamic interaction of people from different groupings with the capacity to create common objectives and to act jointly to develop their community.\nIt is desirable from the perspective of the Rural Alliances consortium that vibrant rural communities follow the aim to develop and/or maintain social, cultural and economic benefit, adapt to change and improve quality of life for everyone within the community.\n\nRVMI categories\n\nThe analytical subject of the RVMI is an analysis of local community groups that are formed within a specific area. The RVMI focusses on local community groups because they are the origin and the basis of ‘vibrancy’, being the organisational form of people that act jointly. Depending on the actions the community groups take (e.g. cooperation) they can make a place more or less vibrant. On the basis of this pattern the RVMI proposes a ‘catalogue’ of quantitative and qualitative questions on the role of community groups that can be visualized and interpreted. The first field tests are scheduled for early 2013.\n\nContribution to rural development\n\nThe main goal of the Rural Alliances project is to develop a transnational tool to capture rural vibrancy. Approaches like quality of life or vibrant communities refer to a presence of certain amenities and measure hard and soft location factors. A vibrant countryside is one of the main categories of the English Rural White Paper and relates to community involvement and activity. It distinguishes between vibrant, active, barely active, and sleeping parishes assessed on numbers of meeting places, voluntary and cultural activities, as well as contested parish elections. Together with a living, working and protected countryside the vibrant countryside is seen as part of a sustainable rural development. Community involvement, participation and inhabitants’ perceptions need to be integrated in such instruments. Therefore, vibrant rural communities follow the aim to develop and/or maintain social, cultural and economic benefit, adapt to change and improve quality of life for everyone within the community. This development is on-going, iterative and inclusive. Taking various national frames, cultural backgrounds, social behaviours and personal opinions into consideration lead to a broadly agreed definition, approach and implementation process. A rural development instrument is created by the transnational partnership. This is called Rural Vibes.\n"}
{"id": "383746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=383746", "title": "Seat of local government", "text": "Seat of local government\n\nIn local government, a city hall, town hall, civic centre, (in the UK or Australia) a guildhall, a Rathaus (German), or (more rarely) a municipal building, is the chief administrative building of a city, town, or other municipality. It usually houses the city or town council, its associated departments, and their employees. It also usually functions as the base of the mayor of a city, town, borough, or county/shire.\n\nBy convention, until the mid 19th-century, a single large open chamber (or 'hall') formed an integral part of the building housing the council. The hall may be used for council meetings and other significant events. This large chamber, the \"town hall\" (and its later variant \"city hall\") has become synonymous with the whole building, and with the administrative body housed in it. The terms \"council chambers\", \"municipal building\" or variants may be used locally in preference to \"town hall\" if no such large hall is present within the building.\n\nThe local government may endeavor to use the town hall building to promote and enhance the quality of life of the community. In many cases, \"town halls\" serve not only as buildings for government functions, but also have facilities for various civic and cultural activities. These may include art shows, stage performances, exhibits and festivals. Modern town halls or \"civic centres\" are often designed with a great variety and flexibility of purpose in mind.\n\nAs symbols of local government, city and town halls have distinctive architecture, and the buildings may have great historical significance for example the Guildhall, London. City hall buildings may also serve as cultural icons that symbolize their cities.\n\nThe term \"town hall\" may be a general one, often applied without regard to whether the building serves or served a town or a city. This is generally the case in the United Kingdom (with examples such as Manchester and Liverpool Town Halls in the cities of Manchester and Liverpool respectively), Australia (with Sydney Town Hall in the city of Sydney), New Zealand, Hong Kong, and many other Commonwealth countries.\n\nEnglish-speakers in some regions use the term \"city hall\" to designate the council offices of a municipality of city status. This is the case in North America, where a distinction is made between city halls and town halls; and is also the case with Brisbane City Hall in Australia.\n\nThe Oxford English Dictionary sums up the generic terms:\n\n\nCounty Council administrations in parts of England and Wales generally operate from a base in a building called, by analogy, a \"County Hall\" or \"Shire Hall\". Conversely, cities that have subdivisions with their own councils may have borough halls. In Scotland, local government in larger cities operates from the \"City Chambers\", otherwise the \"Town House\".\n\nElsewhere in English-speaking countries, other names are occasionally used. In London, the official headquarters of administration of the City of London retains its Anglo-Saxon name, the Guildhall, signifying a place where taxes were paid. In a small number of English cities (including Birmingham, Coventry and Nottingham) the preferred term is \"Council House\": this was also the case in Bristol until 2012, when the building was renamed \"City Hall\". In Birmingham, there is a distinction between the Council House, the seat of local government, and the Town Hall, a concert and meeting venue which pre-dates it. In the City of Sheffield, the distinction is between the Town Hall, the seat of local government, and the City Hall, a concert and ballroom venue.\n\nLarge halls called basilicas were used in Ancient Rome for the administration of justice, as meeting places, and for trade.\n\nIn the Early Medieval period, the hall, a single large open chamber, was the main, and sometimes \"only\" room of the home of a feudal lord. There the lord lived with his family and retinue, ate, slept and administered rule and justice. Activities in the hall played an essential role in the functioning of the feudal manor, the administrative unit of society. As manorial dwellings developed into manor houses, castles and palaces, the hall, or \"great hall\" as it was often termed, remained an essential unit within the architectural complex.\n\nIn the later Middle Ages or early modern period, many European market towns erected communal market halls, comprising a covered open space to function as a sheltered marketplace at street level, and one or more rooms used for public or civic purposes on the upper floor or floors. Such buildings were frequently the precursors of dedicated town halls.\n\nThe modern concept of the town hall developed with the rise of local or regional government. Cities administered by a group of elected or chosen representatives, rather than by a lord or princely ruler, required a place for their council to meet. The Cologne City Hall of 1135 is a prominent example for self-gained municipal autonomy of medieval cities. The Palazzo Pubblico of the Republic of Siena and the Palazzo Vecchio of the Republic of Florence, both town halls, date from 1297 and 1299 respectively. In each case the large, fortified building comprises a large meeting hall and numerous administrative chambers. Both buildings are topped by very tall towers. Both buildings have ancient timepieces by which the people of the town can regulate their lives. Both buildings have facilities for the storage of documents and references that pertain to the city's administration. These features: a hall, a tower and a clock, as well as administrative chambers and an archive or muniment room became the standard features of town halls across Europe. Brussels Town Hall of the 15th century, with its tower, is one of the grandest examples of the medieval era, serving as a model for 19th-century town halls such as the Rathaus, Vienna.\n\nDuring the 19th-century town hall buildings often included \"reading rooms\" to provide free education to the public, and it eventually became customary for the town or city council to establish and maintain a library as part of its service to the community. The grand chamber or meeting place, the \"town hall\" itself, became a place for receptions, banquets, balls and public entertainment. Town halls, particularly during the 19th century, were often equipped with large pipe organs to facilitate public recitals.\n\nIn the 20th-century town halls, as venues, have served the public as places for voting, examinations, vaccinations, relief in times of disaster and the posting lists of war casualties, as well as for the more usual civil functions, festivities and entertainments. Local councils have tended increasingly to remove administrative functions into modern offices. Where new premises are designed and constructed to house local governments, the concepts and functions of administrative council offices and of a civic town hall become separated.\n\nEnglish-speakers (particularly in North America) can use the term \"city hall\" by metonymy to mean \"municipal government\" or government in general, as in the axiom \"You can't fight city hall\". \"Town hall\" tends to have less formal connotations (cf. Town meeting).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6299108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6299108", "title": "Standard cross-cultural sample", "text": "Standard cross-cultural sample\n\nThe standard cross-cultural sample is a sample of 186 cultures used by scholars engaged in cross-cultural studies.\n\nCross-cultural research entails a particular statistical problem, known as Galton's problem: tests of functional relationships (for example, a test of the hypothesis that societies with pronounced male dominance are more warlike) can be confounded because the samples of cultures are not independent. Traits can be associated not only because they are functionally related, but because they were transmitted together either through cross-cultural borrowing or through descent from a common cultural ancestor. \n\nGeorge Peter Murdock attempted to tackle Galton's problem by developing a sample of cultures relatively independent from each other—i.e., with relatively weak phylogenetic and cultural diffusion relationships. Murdock began with the twelve hundred or so peoples in his \"Ethnographic Atlas\" (Murdock, 1967), dividing them into roughly 200 \"sampling provinces\" of closely related cultures. Murdock and Douglas R. White chose one particularly well-documented culture from each sampling province to create the Standard Cross-Cultural Sample (SCCS) (Murdock and White, 1969). The number of cultures is large and varied enough to provide a sound basis for statistical analysis; the sample includes 186 cultures, ranging from contemporary hunter gatherers (e.g., the Mbuti), to early historic states (e.g., the Romans), to contemporary industrial peoples (e.g., the Russians) (; ).\nScholars engaging in statistical cross-cultural analysis are encouraged to use the set of cultures in the SCCS, since each new study adds to the number of coded variables capable of being used with already existing variables. By focusing scholarly attention on this sample of 186 cultures, the data have steadily improved in scope and quality. The open access electronic journal World Cultures, founded by White, published by William Divale, and now edited by J. Patrick Gray, functions as the repository of the SCCS, archiving the now nearly 2000 coded variables and publishing a number of papers on cross-cultural methodology. The journal moved in 2006 to the University of California eScholarship Repository.\n\nMurdock also founded the Human Relations Area Files (HRAF) at Yale University in the 1940s. However, the SCCS contains a different set of cultures, uses a different set of ethnographic sources, and can be considered entirely distinct from the HRAF.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23839083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23839083", "title": "Super-imperialism", "text": "Super-imperialism\n\nSuper-imperialism is a Marxist term with two possible meanings. It refers either to the \"hegemony\" of an imperialist great power over its weaker rivals, who then are called \"sub-imperialisms\", or to a comprehensive \"supra-structure\" above a set of (theoretically) equal-righted imperialist states. The latter meaning is the older one and had become rare by the middle of the 20th century.\n\nThe expression \"super-imperialism\" first appeared in November 1914 as an (inaccurate) translation of the newly coined German term \"Ultra-Imperialismus\". William E. Bohn, the translator of Karl Kautsky’s article \"Der Imperialismus\", (= \"The Imperialism\") seemed to believe, that the terms \"Kartell\" and \"Ultra-Imperialismus\" were not reasonable for the audience of the \"International socialist review\" – an American Marxist journal. Bohn faced a double problem: Cartels were much less familiar in the USA than the concern-like, tauter organized Trust (monopoly) entities – and the word \"ultra\", which in English means \"exaggerated\" or \"extreme\". Thus, he paraphrased Kautsky’s ideas in terms more familiar to American readers,somewhat distorting Kautsky's statement.\n\nTogether with the revival of the imperialism debates in the 1970s the term \"super-imperialism\" recovered, but got modified in its content. It served now to describe the domination by the super-power USA within a system of imperialism, in which the other imperialist powers were set back in their abilities and thus were second-class. Since the same time, the German term \"Ultraimperialismus\" was translated into English literally with \"ultra-imperialism\" and was now used to describe a rather equal-righted inter-imperialist cooperation.\n\n"}
{"id": "1926938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926938", "title": "Thomas C. Stanford", "text": "Thomas C. Stanford\n\nThomas C. Stanford (September 30, 1865 – January 14, 1946) is the founder of Carey, Idaho. He was a Mormon rancher and a state legislator in Idaho.\n\nStanford was born in Logan, Utah Territory, a son of Stephen and Louisa (Forman) Stanford. His father, a native of England, came to Utah Territory in 1861. Of the ten children, Thomas C. was the fifth and was four years old when the family moved to Salt Lake City, where he grew up and received a basic education. He later attended the Brigham Young Academy.\n\nIn 1884, at age nineteen he moved to Albion, Idaho. After a brief stay there, he located a homestead in the Little Wood River valley, which was the center of his operations as a rancher and stockman. Along with operating his own ranch, Stanford also worked for a number of years as a cowboy, stage driver, and freighter.\n\nIn 1895 he bought additional land and engaged in sheep raising as well a continuing his interests in cattle and horses. He was regarded as one of the most successful livestock producers in Idaho. In his later years he also raised hogs on an extensive scale. His home place consisted of 160 acres (64.7 hectares) near Carey, Blaine County, Idaho. Further down the valley he had 250 acres (101.2 hectares) of land. Both farms were under irrigation and capable of producing fine crops.\n\nStanford continued actively in the sheep business until 1918. He then sold his flocks and focused on general ranching and cattle raising. Over the years he replaced the family's original log home with \"a beautiful and commodious residence\" and similarly upgraded the ranching structures.\n\nStanford was instrumental in the organized activities of Idaho stock growers and in 1908-10 served as president of the Idaho Wool Growers Association. He was instrumental in getting much legislation passed beneficial to wool growers, and as president of the association called the first meeting that led to the organization of the National Wool Warehouse. Western wool growers organized the National Wool WareHouse and Storage Company at a 1909 meeting in Chicago. Their intent was to deal cooperatively with wool buyers to regularize pricing and avoid wide swings in the supply-demand situation.\n\nStanford was a Republican member of the Ninth Idaho Legislature in the lower house (1907), and Governor Hawley appointed him a member of the livestock board of the state. For many years he played an active and influential role at the Republican state convention. Supporters and friends urged him to run for governor in 1912, but he declined. He did serve in Blaine County as a Justice of the Peace and in other local offices.\n\nIn June 1900, he married Ida Ivie, daughter of John Ivie, an old Indian scout, who served during the early Indian wars in Utah. The four children of their marriage were: Roka, Esther, Charles, and Frank.\n\nMr. Stanford was for a number of years actively connected with The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and served as a missionary in New Zealand for three years and for two years in the United States.\n\nMr. Stanford assisted in developing irrigation projects in Blaine County and surrounding parts of Idaho. In fact, his name seems to have been associated both as a worker and liberal contributor to all the community development projects in the Little Wood River valley for many years. He was an organizer of the local telephone company at Carey, served as vice president of the company, and was afterward elected its president. He was also one of the organizers of the Carey State Bank and at one time was president of the Cooperative Store.\n\nHe moved to Boise, Idaho in 1945 due to ill health and died there. He is buried in the Cloverdale Memorial Park, west of Boise.\n\nSubstantial passages of this article were copied directly, not just paraphrased, from the biography published in the 1914 Hiram T. French reference. \n"}
{"id": "53366340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53366340", "title": "Union of European Democrats", "text": "Union of European Democrats\n\nThe Union of European Democrats (, UED) is a centrist political party in Poland. The party was founded on 12 November 2016 following the merger of the Democratic Party – demokraci.pl structures of the association of . The name refers to the tradition of the Democratic Union and the Freedom Union, of which it is the successor. The party is generally characterised as socially liberal, with a moderate Christian Democratic wing. The UED strongly emphasizes commitment to the values of the European Union.\n\nThe extra-parliamentary Democratic Party merged with the European Democrats on 12 November 2016. The UED was led by the former Democratic Party president Elizabeth Bińczycka, with Jacek Protasiewicz serving as her Vice-President. Former President Lech Walesa and the chairman of the Committee for the Defence of Democracy Mateusz Kijowski spoke at the party's founding conference, and letters were read from former presidents Bronislaw Komorowski and Aleksander Kwasniewski.\n\nThe party program declaration is concerned with the defense of Polish democracy, support for Poland's membership of the European Union and NATO, and the putative threats to Poland posed by Russia. The UED supports the creation of a federal Europe. The party also advocates civil service reform, the separation of church and state, and the introduction of civil partnerships.\n"}
{"id": "20640342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20640342", "title": "Weiquan movement", "text": "Weiquan movement\n\nThe Weiquan movement is a non-centralized group of lawyers, legal experts, and intellectuals in China who seek to protect and defend the civil rights of the citizenry through litigation and legal activism. The movement, which began in the early 2000s, has organized demonstrations, sought reform via the legal system and media, defended victims of human rights abuses, and written appeal letters, despite opposition from Communist Party authorities. Among the issues adopted by Weiquan lawyers are property and housing rights, protection for AIDS victims, environmental damage, religious freedom, freedom of speech and the press, and defending the rights of other lawyers facing disbarment or imprisonment.\n\nIndividuals involved in the Weiquan movement have met with occasionally harsh reprisals from Chinese officials, including disbarment, detention, harassment, and, in extreme instances, torture. Authorities have also responded to the movement with the launch of an education campaign on the \"socialist concept of rule of law,\" which reasserts the role of the Communist Party and the primacy of political considerations in the legal profession, and with the Three Supremes, which entrenches the supremacy of the Communist Party in the judicial process.\n\nSince the legal reforms of the late 1970s and 1980s, the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) has moved to embrace the language of the rule of law and establish a modern court system. In the process, it has enacted thousands of new laws and regulations, and begun training more legal professionals. The concept of \"rule of law\" was enshrined in the constitution, and the CCP embarked on campaigns to publicize the idea that citizens have protection under the law. At the same time, however, a fundamental contradiction exists in the implementation of rule of law wherein the CCP insists that its authority supersedes that of the law; the constitution enshrines rule of law, but also emphasizes the principle of the \"leadership of the Communist Party.\" The judiciary is not independent, and is therefore subject to politicization and control by the Communist Party. This has produced a system that is often described as \"rule by law,\" rather than rule of law.\n\nBecause judicial decisions are subject to the sometimes arbitrary assessments of the CCP, citizens who attempt to make use of the legal system to pursue grievances find that, if their cause is determined to have the potential to undermine the authority of the Communist Party, they may be suppressed. Defendants who find themselves facing criminal charges, such as for conducting activism or for their religious beliefs, often have few means of pursuing an effective defense.\n\nThe Weiquan movement coalesced in the early 2000s in response to these inherent contradictions and the arbitrary exercise of legal authority in China, though its roots could be traced to the consumer protection movement that began in the 1990s. The movement is informal, and can be understood as including lawyers and legal activists who advocate for civil rights and defend the interests of citizens against corporations, government or Communist Party organs. Fu Hualing and Richard Cullen note that Weiquan lawyers \"are generally always on the side of the weaker party: (migrant) workers v. employers in labor disputes; peasants in cases involving taxation, persons contesting environmental pollution, land appropriation, and village committee elections; journalists facing government censorship; defendants subject to criminal prosecution; and ordinary citizens who are discriminated against by government policies and actions.\"\n\nThe emergence of the Weiquan movement was made possible by a confluence of factors, including a market for their services, and an emerging rights consciousness. It was also facilitated by the 1996 \"Lawyers Law,\" which changed the definition of lawyers from \"state legal workers\" to professionals holding a legal certificate who perform legal services. The law effectively delinked lawyers from the state, and gave lawyers greater (though still limited) autonomy within the profession.\n\nWeiquan lawyers tend to be especially critical of the lack of judicial independence in China. Rather than challenging particular laws, they frame their work as being in keeping with Chinese laws, and describe their activities as a means of defending and upholding the Constitution against abuses. As such, Weiquan lawyering has been described as a form of Rightful resistance.\n\nWeiquan Lawyers (), or \"rights protection\" lawyers, refer to a small but influential movement of lawyers, legal practitioners, scholars and activists who help Chinese citizens to assert their constitutional, civil rights and/or public interest through litigation and legal activism. In the context of a rising number of lawyers in China, the proportion of Weiquan lawyers is very small Weiquan Lawyers face considerable personal, financial and professional risks.\n\nNotable Weiquan Lawyers include He Weifang, Xu Zhiyong, Teng Biao, Guo Feixiong and Chen Guangcheng, Gao Zhisheng, Zheng Enchong, and Li Heping. Many barefoot lawyers are peasants who teach themselves enough law to file civil complaints, engage in litigation, and educate fellow citizens about their rights. Some Weiquan lawyers are the pragmatists and some are more radical.\n\nAlthough freedom of speech is enshrined in Article 35 of the Constitution of the People's Republic of China, Chinese authorities enforce restrictions on political and religious expression. Such restrictions are sometimes in accordance with Article 105 of the criminal code, which contains vague and broadly defined provisions against \"inciting subversion of state power\". Weiquan lawyers, along with international human rights organizations, have argued that the provisions against subversion are inconsistent both with China's own constitution and with international human rights standards, particularly in light of the lack of transparency and clear guidelines used in applying the laws.\n\nSeveral Weiquan lawyers have been involved in litigation and other forms of advocacy to defend the rights to free expression for individuals charged with the crime of subversion. Notable cases include that of Liu Xiaobo, a prominent Beijing intellectual sentenced to 11 years in prison for inciting subversion in December 2009. Chengdu activist Tan Zuoren was sentenced to five years for inciting subversion for publishing writings on the 1989 Tiananmen Square Massacre, advocating for the families of the 2008 Sichuan earthquake victims, and accepting interviews from the Falun Gong-affiliated Sound of Hope radio. His lawyers were reportedly barred from entering the courtroom. In October 2009, intellectual Guo Quan was sentenced to 10 years in prison for publishing \"reactionary\" articles online.\nWeiquan lawyers have also challenged the application of state secret laws, which are sometimes used to prosecute individuals who disseminate information on politically sensitive issues. In November 2009, for instance, lawyers were involved in arguing for Huang Qi, a Sichuan activist who had advocated online for the parents of Sichuan earthquake victims. Huang was sentenced to three years in prison for possession of state secrets.\n\nThe Chinese Constitution enshrines rule of law, but simultaneously emphasizes the principle of the \"leadership of the Communist Party.\" The legal profession itself is subordinate to the authority of the Communist Party; the Ministry of Justice, not the bar associations, is responsible for issuing and renewing lawyers' licenses. Weiquan lawyers have argued that this structure precludes the emergence of genuine rule of law, and in some cases have advocated for reforms to advance judicial independence and the protection of legal professionals.\n\nIn late August 2008, a collection of several dozen Beijing lawyers signed a petition stating that the Beijing Bar Association leaders should be elected by the organization's members, rather than being appointed. The petition letter stated that selection process in place for the Association's directors is inconsistent with official guidelines and the Chinese constitution, and should be replaced with a democratic voting process. The Beijing Bar Association responded to the campaign by asserting that \"Any individual who uses text messages, the web or other media to privately promote and disseminate the concept of direct elections, express controversial opinions, thereby spreading rumors within the Beijing Bar Association, confuse and poison people's minds, and convince people of circumstances that do not exist regarding the so-called 'Call For Direct Elections For the Beijing Bar Association' is illegal.\" The following year, the Beijing Bureau of Justice refused to renew the licenses of 53 Beijing Weiquan lawyers, all of whom had signed the petition for elections to the Bar Association.\n\nUnder Chinese property law, there is no privately held land; \"urban land\" is owned by the state, which grants land rights for a set number of years. Rural, or \"collectively owned land,\" is leased by the state for periods of 30 years, and is theoretically reserved for agricultural purposes, housing and services for farmers.\n\nForced evictions are forbidden under International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, which China has ratified. Under China's constitution and other property laws, expropriation of urban land is permitted only if it is for the purpose of supporting the \"public interest,\" and those being evicted are supposed to receive compensation, resettlement, and protection of one's living conditions. The \"public interest\" is not defined, however, and abuses are common in the expropriation process, with many citizens complaining of receiving little or no compensation.\n\nForced evictions with little or no compensation occur frequently in both urban and rural China, with even fewer legal protections for rural citizens. Collectively owned rural land may be \"reallocated\" at the discretion of authorities, and in many regions local governments collude with private developers to reclassify rural land as urban land, which can then be sold. from the mid-1990s to mid-2000s, an estimated 40 million Chinese peasants were affected by land requisitions. Citizens who resist or protest the evictions have reportedly been subjected to harassment, beatings, or detention, and land-related grievances occasionally escalate into large-scale protests or riots.\n\nSeveral Weiquan lawyers have advocated for the rights of individual citizens whose land and homes were taken with inadequate compensation, including Shanghai lawyer Zheng Enchong. Ni Yulan, a Beijing lawyer, was herself left homeless by forced eviction, and became an outspoken advocate for victims before being sentenced to two years in prison.\n\nIn 2007, a 54-year-old farmer in Heilongjiang Yang Chunlin published numerous articles on human rights and land rights, and helped to organise a petition entitled: \"We want human rights, not the Olympics.\" The petition reportedly collected over ten thousand signatures. Yang was put to trial, and sentenced to five years in prison, where he has allegedly been tortured. Li Fangping was hired to defend him, but was denied access to his client.\n\nSeveral Weiquan lawyers, including Teng Biao, Jiang Tianyong, and Li Fangping, offered legal aid to Tibetans in the wake of the March 2008 Tibetan protests. The protests resulted in the imprisonment of at least 670 Tibetans, and the execution of at least four individuals. Chinese government sources asserted that the unrest and violence in Tibet had been masterminded by the Dalai Lama and executed by his followers for the purpose of fomenting unrest and disrupting the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing. The Open Constitution Initiative (OCI), operated by several Weiquan lawyers and intellectuals, issued a paper in May 2009 challenging the official narrative, and suggesting that the protests were instead a response to economic inequities, Han Chinese migration, and religious sentiments. The OCI recommended that Chinese authorities better respect and protect the rights and interests of the Tibetan people, including religious freedom, and pursue the reduction of economic inequality and official corruption.\n\nTibetan Filmmaker Dhondup Wangcheng was sentenced to six years in prison for making a documentary on human rights in Tibet in the run-up to the Beijing Olympics. Two lawyers who sought to represent him, Chang Boyang and Li Dunyong, faced threats and harassment for their advocacy.\n\nIn July 2010, a group of Chinese activists including Teng Biao co-signed a letter to the Chinese leadership to protest the 15-year prison sentence that had been meted out to Uighur journalist Halaite Niyaze. Niyaze was not permitted to have a lawyer at his trial, where he was charged with \"endangering state security.\" According to reports, Niyaze was being charged because he had criticized the Chinese government in an interview with a Hong Kong news agency for not doing enough to prevent the July 2009 Ürümqi riots.\n\nFalun Gong, a spiritual qigong discipline that once claimed tens of million adherents in China, was banned in July 1999 under the leadership of the Communist Party, and a campaign was launched to suppress the group. In an attempt to have Falun Gong adherents renounce their belief in the practice, they are subject to state-sanctioned, systematic violence in custody, sometimes resulting in death. Some sources indicate hundreds of thousands may have been detained in reeducation-through-labor camps for practicing Falun Gong and/or resisting persecution.\n\nIn November 1999, the Supreme People's Court offered a judicial interpretation of article 300 of the criminal code, stating that Falun Gong should be regarded as a \"\"xie jiao\",\" or cult. Large numbers were subsequently sentenced to long prison terms, often under article 300, in what are typically very short trials without the presence of a lawyer. In 2009 alone, the Falun Dafa Information Center reported that several hundred Falun Gong adherents have been sentenced to prison terms of up to 18 years. Human rights groups, including Amnesty International, note that the application of the law to persecute Falun Gong adherents contravenes both China's own constitution and international standards. Several Weiquan lawyers have argued similarly while defending Falun Gong adherents who face criminal or administrative sentencing for their beliefs. Lawyers who have defended Falun Gong include Guo Guoting, Zhang Kai and Li Chunfu, Wang Yonghang,Tang Jitian and Liu Wei, among others.\n\nIn addition to litigation work, Weiquan lawyers like Gao Zhisheng have also advocated publicly and in the media for human rights for Falun Gong. In 2004 and 2005, Gao wrote a series of letters to China's top leadership detailing accounts of torture and sexual abuse against Falun Gong practitioners, and calling for an end to the persecution of the group. In response, Gao lost his legal license, was put under house arrest, detained, and was reportedly tortured.\n\nSome Weiquan lawyers have advocated for the rights of HIV/AIDS victims who contracted the virus as a result of state-sponsored blood drives. In the 1990s, government officials in central China, and especially in Henan, encouraged rural citizens to sell blood plasma in order to supplement their incomes. Gross mismanagement of the process resulted in hundreds of thousands of individuals being infected with HIV. According to activists, victims have not been compensated, and no government officials were held accountable. Authorities continue to suppress information about the epidemic, which is particularly sensitive in light of the involvement of Li Changchun, the Communist Party Propaganda head and formerly Party chief in Henan.\n\nHu Jia is arguably the most well known advocate for HIV/AIDS victims, having served as the executive director of the Beijing Aizhixing Institute of Health Education and as one of the founders of the non-governmental organization Loving Source.\n\nChen Guangcheng, a blind self-taught Weiquan lawyer, rose to prominence for defending victims of China's one-child policy. First implemented in 1979, the one-child policy mandates that couples may only have one child, though there are exceptions for some rural citizens, ethnic minorities, and couples who were themselves only children. Though Chinese laws condemn harsh enforcement measures, Chinese authorities and family planning staff have been accused of carrying out coercive, late-term forced abortions, sterilization, incarceration and torture to enforce the policy. In 2005, Chen Guangcheng filed a class action case against family planning officials in Linyi, Shandong, who were accused of subjecting thousands of women to sterilization or forced abortions.\n\nChina's constitution guarantees freedom of religion, yet also provides a caveat specifying that only \"normal\" religious activities are permitted. In practice, religious freedom is granted only within the strictly prescribed parameters of the five officially sanctioned \"patriotic\" religious associations of Buddhism, Taoism, Islam, Protestantism and Catholicism. Groups falling outside the state-administered religions, including \"underground\" or \"house church\" Christians, are subject to varying degrees of repression and persecution.\n\nAlthough there are no definitive figures on the number of underground Christians in China, some estimates have put their total number in excess of 70 million. At least 40 Catholic bishops operate independently of official sanction, and some are under surveillance, house arrest, detention, or have disappeared. Several leaders and members of underground Protestant churches have also been detained and sentenced to reeducation through labor or prison terms. Violent raids and demolitions have been carried out on underground churches, sometimes resulting in injury to congregants inside. Chinese officials have labelled several underground Protestant churches as a \"xie jiao\" (translated literally as \"evil religion\"), or cult, thus providing a pretext for harsher punishment of members.\n\nSeveral prominent Weiquan lawyers themselves identify with the underground Protestant movement, and have sought to defend church members and leaders facing imprisonment. These include Zhang Kai, Li Heping, and Gao Zhisheng. Former house church leader Bob Fu's US-based organization \"ChinaAid\" has sponsored legal cases, and provided \"rule-of-law training\" and legal help for distressed clients in China.\n\nA number of specific events have attracted the help and attention of Weiquan activists. In the March 2008 earthquake in Sichuan province, shoddy school construction resulted in the collapse of several schools full of students. A number of Weiquan lawyers, including Tan Zuoren, were involved in advocating for the rights of parents, and in investigating allegations that corrupt officials were responsible for the poor construction. Parents and lawyers met with reprisals from Chinese officials for their activism.\n\nLater the same year, it was revealed that large quantities of infant formula had been tainted with melamine, causing 300,000 infants to fall ill and resulting in several deaths. A group of parents of the victims were reportedly detained for attempting to draw media attention to their plight. Dozens of lawyers—particularly from the provinces of Hebei, Henan and Shandong—offered pro-bono legal services to victims, but their efforts were obstructed by authorities.\n\nIndividual human rights cases, such as the Deng Yujiao incident and the death of Qian Yunhui, have also drawn help from rights defenders such as Wu Gan.\n\nIn 2003, a group of legal scholars, including Teng Biao and Xu Zhiyong, formed the Open Constitution Initiative () to advocate for greater rule of law. The organization was involved in the Sun Zhigang case, and has advocated for petitioners, labor rights, freedom of expression, HIV/AIDS victims, Tibetans, land rights, and protection of public health, among other issues.\n\nIn response to the emergence of the Weiquan movement, which often makes use of the official language about \"rule of law\" to justify its work, in April 2006 a political campaign was launched to solidify the Communist Party's leadership over judicial work, combat the idea of greater independence for judges and lawyers, and educate people and judicial authorities about the \"socialist concept of rule of law.\" The campaign was announced by Luo Gan, then the head of the Party Central Committee's Political and Legislative Affairs Committee. Luo urged that in order to protect political stability, \"forceful measures\" be adopted \"against those who, under the pretext of rights-protection (weiquan), carry out sabotage.\" The launch of the campaign coincided with a crackdown on Weiquan lawyers.\n\nShortly after the campaign's launch, Party Committees provided instruction to judges reminding them of the political goals that their work must uphold. According to one document issued to judges in Zhejiang and quoted by Human Rights Watch, \"Recently, some judges have started to believe that to be a judge you just have to strictly apply the law in a case. In fact, this kind of concept is erroneous [...] all the legal formulations have a clear political background and direction [...] We must stamp out the kind of narrow viewpoint that thinks that you can also do court work by having judicial independence.\"\n\nDuring a December 2007 conference on political-legal work, CCP general secretary Hu Jintao articulated the theory of the \"Three Supremes,\" which emphasized again that legal work should regard as supreme the concerns and interests of the Communist Party. In March 2008, Wang Shengjun was confirmed as the new head of the Supreme People's Court. Wang, who has no formal legal training himself, abandoned the efforts of his predecessors to improve judicial competence, training, and autonomy, and instead placed primary importance on the ideological implications of the \"Three Supremes\" theory and upholding the leadership of the Communist Party.\n\nIn 2010, China's Ministry of Justice issued two new regulations intended to \"strengthen the supervision and management of lawyers and law firms\". According to the Associated Press, the new regulations would serve to \"allow authorities to punish lawyers ... for actions such as talking to the media or even causing 'traffic troubles.'\"\n\nIn March 2012, China's Ministry of Justice issued a new directive requiring lawyers first obtaining their license or renewing an existing license to swear an oath of loyalty to the Communist Party. According to the Ministry's website, a section of oath includes the following: “I swear to faithfully fulfill the sacred mission of legal workers in socialism with Chinese characteristics. I swear my loyalty to the motherland, to the people, to uphold the leadership of the Communist Party of China and the socialist system, and to protect the dignity of the Constitution and laws.\" \n\nWeiquan lawyers have faced various challenges to their work from the Chinese government, including disbarment or suspension, violence, threats, surveillance, arbitrary detention, and prosecution. This is particularly true for lawyers who take up politically sensitive cases. Reports of harassment, intimidation, and violence against Weiquan lawyers increased in 2006 following the launch of the campaign to promote the \"socialist concept of the rule of law.\" Authorities have refused to renew the licenses of several dozen Weiquan lawyers, and several have effectively been banned for life from the legal profession. In 2009, for instance, at least 17 Weiquan lawyers were not permitted to renew their legal licenses after taking on politically sensitive cases. Several Weiquan lawyers have themselves been sentenced to prison in response to their activism. A selection of notable instances of suppression are listed here:\n\n\nAlthough there is relatively little awareness of the Weiquan phenomenon as a movement outside of China, Western governments and human rights organizations have consistently expressed concern over the treatment of individual Weiquan lawyers in China, some of whom have faced disbarment, imprisonment, prolonged disappearance, sentencing and alleged torture for their work in promoting civil rights and speaking out against one-party rule. In October 2010, a bipartisan group of 29 members of the U.S. House of Representatives pressed President Obama to raise the cases of Liu Xiaobo and Gao Zhisheng with the Chinese leadership, writing of Gao Zhizheng's prolonged detention: \"If lawyers are hauled away for the \"crime\" of defending their clients, then even the pretense of rule of law in China has failed.\" The U.S. State Department claims to have raised the cases of these two individuals with their Chinese counterparts.\n\nIn 2008, Hu Jia was awarded the Sakharov Prize by the European Parliament recognizing his human rights advocacy. The same year, Hu and Gao Zhisheng received nominations for the Nobel Peace Prize, and were considered to be favorites for the award. Two years later, seven members of the U.S. House of Representatives nominated imprisoned lawyers Gao Zhisheng and Chen Guangcheng, along with fellow dissident Liu Xiaobo for the prize. The letter noted that these individuals have sought to \"raise the Chinese people's awareness of their dignity and rights, and to call their government to govern within its constitution, its laws, and the international human rights agreements it has signed,\" and thereby made a significant contribution to peace. The Nobel Prize Committee awarded the honor to Liu in absentia in December 2010.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33178", "title": "White supremacy", "text": "White supremacy\n\nWhite supremacy or white supremacism is the racist belief that white people are superior to people of other races and therefore should be dominant over them. White supremacy has roots in scientific racism, and it often relies on pseudoscientific arguments. Like most similar movements such as neo-Nazism, white supremacists typically oppose members of other races as well as Jews.\n\nThe term is also typically used to describe a political ideology that perpetuates and maintains the social, political, historical, or institutional domination by white people (as evidenced by historical and contemporary sociopolitical structures such as the Atlantic slave trade, Jim Crow laws in the United States, and \"apartheid\" in South Africa). Different forms of white supremacism put forth different conceptions of who is considered white, and different groups of white supremacists identify various racial and cultural groups as their primary enemy.\n\nIn academic usage, particularly in usage which draws on critical race theory or Intersectionality, the term \"white supremacy\" can also refer to a political or socioeconomic system, in which white people enjoy a structural advantage (privilege) over other ethnic groups, on both a collective and individual level.\n\nWhite supremacy has ideological foundations that date back to 17th-century scientific racism, the predominant paradigm of human variation that helped shape international relations and racial policy from the latter part of the Age of Enlightenment until the late 20th century (marked by decolonization and the abolition of apartheid in South Africa in 1991, followed by that country's first multiracial elections in 1994).\n\nWhite supremacy was dominant in the United States both before and after the American Civil War, and it persisted for decades after the Reconstruction Era. In the antebellum South, this included the holding of African Americans in chattel slavery, with four million of them denied freedom. The outbreak of the Civil War saw the desire to uphold white supremacy being cited as a cause for state secession and the formation of the Confederate States of America. In an editorial about Native Americans in 1890, author L. Frank Baum wrote: \"The Whites, by law of conquest, by justice of civilization, are masters of the American continent, and the best safety of the frontier settlements will be secured by the total annihilation of the few remaining Indians.\"\n\nIn some parts of the United States, many people who were considered non-white were disenfranchised, barred from government office, and prevented from holding most government jobs well into the second half of the 20th century. Professor Leland T. Saito of the University of Southern California writes: \"Throughout the history of the United States, race has been used by whites for legitimizing and creating difference and social, economic and political exclusion.\" The Naturalization Act of 1790 limited U.S. citizenship to whites only.\n\nThe denial of social and political freedom for minorities continued into the mid-20th century, resulting in the civil rights movement. Sociologist Stephen Klineberg has stated that U.S. immigration laws prior to 1965 clearly declared \"that Northern Europeans are a superior subspecies of the white race\". The Immigration and Nationality Act of 1965 opened entry to the U.S. to immigrants other than traditional Northern European and Germanic groups, and significantly altered the demographic mix in the U.S as a result. Many U.S. states banned interracial marriage through anti-miscegenation laws until 1967, when these laws were invalidated by the Supreme Court of the United States' decision in \"Loving v. Virginia\". These mid-century gains had a major impact on white Americans' political views; segregation and white racial superiority, which had been publicly endorsed in the 1940s, became minority views within the white community by the mid-1970s, and continued to decline into 1990s polls to a single-digit percentage. For sociologist Howard Winant, these shifts marked the end of \"monolithic white supremacy\" in the United States.\nAfter the mid-1960s, white supremacy remained an important ideology in the American far-right. Howard Winant writes that, \"On the far right the cornerstone of white identity is belief in an ineluctable, unalterable racialized difference between whites and nonwhites.\" According to Kathleen Belew, a historian of race and racism in the United States, white militancy shifted after the Vietnam War from supporting the existing racial order to a more radical position—self-described as \"white power\" or \"white nationalism\"—committed to overthrowing the United States government and establishing a white homeland. White supremacist groups such as the Ku Klux Klan, neo-Nazi organizations, the Christian Identity movement, and racist skinheads make up two of the three major strands of violent right-wing movements in the United States (the third is anti-government militia organizations). \n\nSome academics argue that outcomes from the 2016 United States Presidential Election reflect ongoing challenges with white supremacy. Psychologist Janet Helms suggested that the norming behaviors of social institutions of education, government, and healthcare are organized around the \"birthright of...the power to control society's resources and determine the rules for [those resources]\". Educators, literary theorists, and other political experts have raised similar questions, connecting the scapegoating of disenfranchised populations to white superiority.\n\nIn 1937, Winston Churchill told the Palestine Royal Commission: \"I do not admit for instance, that a great wrong has been done to the Red Indians of America or the black people of Australia. I do not admit that a wrong has been done to these people by the fact that a stronger race, a higher-grade race, a more worldly wise race to put it that way, has come in and taken their place.\" British historian Richard Toye, author of Churchill's Empire, said that \"Churchill did think that white people were superior.\" \nNazism promoted the idea of a superior Germanic people or Aryan race in Germany during the early 20th century. Notions of white supremacy and Aryan racial superiority were combined in the 19th century, with white supremacists maintaining the belief that white people were members of an Aryan \"master race\" which was superior to other races, particularly the Jews, who were described as the \"Semitic race\", Slavs, and Gypsies, which they associated with \"cultural sterility\". Arthur de Gobineau, a French racial theorist and aristocrat, blamed the fall of the \"ancien régime\" in France on racial degeneracy caused by racial intermixing, which he argued had destroyed the \"purity\" of the Nordic or Germanic race. Gobineau's theories, which attracted a strong following in Germany, emphasized the existence of an irreconcilable polarity between Aryan or Germanic peoples and Jewish culture.\n\nAs the Nazi Party's chief racial theorist, Alfred Rosenberg oversaw the construction of a human racial \"ladder\" that justified Hitler's racial and ethnic policies. Rosenberg promoted the Nordic theory, which regarded Nordics as the \"master race\", superior to all others, including other Aryans (Indo-Europeans). Rosenberg got the racial term \"Untermensch\" from the title of Klansman Lothrop Stoddard's 1922 book \"The Revolt Against Civilization: The Menace of the Under-man\". It was later adopted by the Nazis from that book's German version \"Der Kulturumsturz: Die Drohung des Untermenschen\" (1925). Rosenberg was the leading Nazi who attributed the concept of the East-European \"under man\" to Stoddard. An advocate of the U.S. immigration laws that favored Northern Europeans, Stoddard wrote primarily on the alleged dangers posed by \"colored\" peoples to white civilization, and wrote \"The Rising Tide of Color Against White World-Supremacy\" in 1920. In establishing a restrictive entry system for Germany in 1925, Hitler wrote of his admiration for America's immigration laws: \"The American Union categorically refuses the immigration of physically unhealthy elements, and simply excludes the immigration of certain races.\"\n\nGerman praise for America's institutional racism, previously found in Hitler's \"Mein Kampf\", was continuous throughout the early 1930's, and Nazi lawyers were advocates of the use of American models. Race-based U.S. citizenship and anti-miscegenation laws directly inspired the Nazi's two principal Nuremberg racial laws—the Citizenship Law and the Blood Law. In order to preserve the Aryan or Nordic race the Nazis introduced the Nuremberg Laws in 1935, which forbade sexual relations and marriages between Germans and Jews, and later between Germans and Romani and Slavs. The Nazis used the Mendelian inheritance theory to argue that social traits were innate, claiming that there was a racial nature associated with certain general traits such as inventiveness or criminal behavior.\n\nAccording to the 2012 annual report of Germany's interior intelligence service, the Federal Office for the Protection of the Constitution, at the time there were 26,000 right-wing extremists living in Germany, including 6000 neo-Nazis.\n\nA number of Southern African nations experienced severe racial tension and conflict during global decolonization, particularly as white Africans of European ancestry fought to protect their preferential social and political status. Racial segregation in South Africa began in colonial times under the Dutch Empire, and it continued when the British took over the Cape of Good Hope in 1795. Apartheid was introduced as an officially structured policy by the Afrikaner-dominated National Party after the general election of 1948. Apartheid's legislation divided inhabitants into four racial groups—\"black\", \"white\", \"coloured\", and \"Indian\", with coloured divided into several sub-classifications. In 1970, the Afrikaner-run government abolished non-white political representation, and starting that year black people were deprived of South African citizenship. South Africa abolished apartheid in 1991.\n\nIn Rhodesia, a predominantly white government issued its own unilateral declaration of independence from the United Kingdom during an unsuccessful attempt to avoid immediate majority rule. Following the Rhodesian Bush War which was fought by African nationalists, Rhodesian prime minister Ian Smith acceded to biracial political representation in 1978 and the state achieved recognition from the United Kingdom as Zimbabwe in 1980.\n\nNeo-Nazi organisations embracing white supremacist ideology are present in many countries of the world. In 2007, it was claimed that Russian neo-Nazis accounted for \"half of the world's total\".\n\nIn June 2015, Democratic Representative John Conyers and his Republican colleague Ted Yoho offered bipartisan amendments to block the U.S. military training of Ukraine's Azov Battalion — called a “neo-Nazi paramilitary militia” by Conyers and Yoho. Some members of the battalion are openly white supremacists.\n\nThe term \"white supremacy\" is used in academic studies of racial power to denote a system of structural or societal racism which privileges white people over others, regardless of the presence or the absence of racial hatred. White racial advantages occur at both a collective and an individual level (\"ceteris paribus\", , when individuals are compared that do not relevantly differ except in ethnicity). Legal scholar Frances Lee Ansley explains this definition as follows:\nThis and similar definitions have been adopted or proposed by Charles Mills, bell hooks, David Gillborn, Jessie Daniels, and Neely Fuller Jr, and they are widely used in critical race theory and intersectional feminism. Some anti-racist educators, such as Betita Martinez and the Challenging White Supremacy workshop, also use the term in this way. The term expresses historic continuities between a pre–civil rights movement era of open white supremacism and the current racial power structure of the United States. It also expresses the visceral impact of structural racism through \"provocative and brutal\" language that characterizes racism as \"nefarious, global, systemic, and constant\". Academic users of the term sometimes prefer it to \"racism\" because it allows for a distinction to be drawn between racist feelings and white racial advantage or privilege.\n\nThe term's recent rise in popularity among leftist activists has been characterized by some as counterproductive. John McWhorter, a specialist in language and race relations, has described its use as straying from its commonly accepted meaning to encompass less extreme issues, thereby cheapening the term and potentially derailing productive discussion. Political columnist Kevin Drum attributes the term's growing popularity to frequent use by Ta-Nehisi Coates, describing it as a \"terrible fad\" which fails to convey nuance. He claims that the term should be reserved for those who are trying to promote the idea that whites are inherently superior to blacks and not used to characterize less blatantly racist beliefs or actions. The use of the academic definition of white supremacy has been criticized by Conor Friedersdorf for the confusion it creates for the general public inasmuch as it differs from the more common dictionary definition; he argues that it is likely to alienate those it hopes to convince.\n\nSupporters of Nordicism consider the \"Nordic peoples\" to be a superior race. By the early 19th century, white supremacy was attached to emerging theories of racial hierarchy. The German philosopher Arthur Schopenhauer attributed cultural primacy to the white race:\n\nThe eugenicist Madison Grant argued in his 1916 book, \"The Passing of the Great Race\", that the Nordic race had been responsible for most of humanity's great achievements, and that admixture was \"race suicide\". In this book, Europeans who are not of Germanic origin but have Nordic characteristics such as blonde/red hair and blue/green/gray eyes, were considered to be a Nordic admixture and suitable for Aryanization.\n\nIn the United States, the Ku Klux Klan (KKK) is the group most associated with the white supremacist movement. Many white supremacist groups are based on the concept of preserving genetic purity, and do not focus solely on discrimination based on skin color. The KKK's reasons for supporting racial segregation are not primarily based on religious ideals, but some Klan groups are openly Protestant. The KKK and other white supremacist groups like Aryan Nations, The Order and the White Patriot Party are considered antisemitic.\n\nNazi Germany promulgated white supremacy based on the belief that the Aryan race, or the Germans, were the \"master race\". It was combined with a eugenics programme that aimed for racial hygiene through compulsory sterilization of sick individuals and extermination of Untermenschen (\"subhumans\"): Slavs, Jews and Romani, which eventually culminated in the Holocaust.\n\nChristian Identity is another movement closely tied to white supremacy. Some white supremacists identify themselves as Odinists, although many Odinists reject white supremacy. Some white supremacist groups, such as the South African Boeremag, conflate elements of Christianity and Odinism. Creativity (formerly known as \"The World Church of the Creator\") is atheistic and it denounces Christianity and other theistic religions. Aside from this, its ideology is similar to that of many Christian Identity groups because it believes in the antisemitic conspiracy theory that there is a \"Jewish conspiracy\" in control of governments, the banking industry and the media. Matthew F. Hale, founder of the World Church of the Creator, has published articles stating that all races other than white are \"mud races\", which is what the group's religion teaches.\n\nThe white supremacist ideology has become associated with a racist faction of the skinhead subculture, despite the fact that when the skinhead culture first developed in the United Kingdom in the late 1960s, it was heavily influenced by black fashions and music, especially Jamaican reggae and ska, and African American soul music.\n\nWhite supremacist recruitment activities are primarily conducted at a grassroots level as well as on the Internet. Widespread access to the Internet has led to a dramatic increase in white supremacist websites. The Internet provides a venue to openly express white supremacist ideas at little social cost, because people who post the information are able to remain anonymous.\n\n\n\nNotes\n\n"}
