{"id": "47412345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47412345", "title": "1988 in Sri Lanka", "text": "1988 in Sri Lanka\n\nThe following lists events that happened during 1988 in Sri Lanka.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52587302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52587302", "title": "Allen Frantzen", "text": "Allen Frantzen\n\nAllen J. Frantzen (born 1947 or 1948) is an American medievalist with a specialization in Old English literature. Since retiring from Loyola University Chicago, he has been an emeritus professor.\n\nFrantzen grew up in rural Iowa and earned a degree in English from Loras College and a PhD from the University of Virginia with a dissertation on the literature of penance in the Anglo-Saxon period. He was a faculty member at Loyola University Chicago from 1978 until his retirement in 2014, when he was named an emeritus professor. While there he headed the graduate programs in English from 1984 to 1988 and in 1992 founded the Loyola Community Literacy Center, which is open to the community as well as to students at the university.\n\nFrantzen has published introductory works intended for students, such as \"King Alfred\" (1986) and \"Troilus and Criseyde': The Poem and the Frame\" (1993) on Chaucer's \"Troilus and Criseyde\". He also co-edited \"The Work of Work. Servitude, Slavery, and Labor in Medieval England\" (1994) with Douglas Moffat.\n\nHis first book was on the subject-matter of his dissertation, \"The Literature of Penance in Anglo-Saxon England\" (1983); he returned to the Anglo-Saxon penitential literature in \"Before the Closet: Same-Sex Love from 'Beowulf' to 'Angels in America\" (1998), in which, himself a gay man, he argues that contrary to John Boswell's argument, same-sex relations were not tolerated more by the Church before the Norman Conquest, but rather the relationships were not \"closeted\"; he takes what he calls a \"legitimist\" rather than a \"liberationist\" view of the textual evidence. The book has been described as \"groundbreaking\".\n\nFrantzen has also published critiques of the field of Old English studies: \"Desire for Origins: New Language, Old English, and Teaching the Tradition\" (1990), a study of the history of the field, and \"Speaking Two Languages: Traditional Disciplines and Contemporary Theory in Medieval Studies\" (1991). The former, in which Frantzen argues that Anglo-Saxon studies are increasingly regarded as hidebound because of the insular approach within the field, attracted much notice. Fred C. Robinson wrote that it \"should be read by all medievalists who care about their profession.\" In 1994 Frantzen was the keynote speaker at a conference at the University of California, Berkeley that was published as \"Anglo-Saxonism and the Construction of Social Identity\" (1997).\n\nIn \"Bloody Good: Chivalry, Sacrifice, and the Great War\" (2004) he studied the mythology of chivalry and of \"imitatio Christi\" as motivations for participants in World War I.\n\nAfter his retirement, Frantzen wrote a blog post dated September 2015 titled \"How to Fight Your Way Out of the Feminist Fog\" in which he aligned himself with the men's rights movement against what he argued were the anti-man demands of feminists; this provoked disapproving responses from medievalists after it was publicized in early 2016. He has subsequently published \"Modern Masculinity: A Guide for Men\" (2016) via the self-publisher BookBaby.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2179800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2179800", "title": "Arts Council Collection", "text": "Arts Council Collection\n\nThe Arts Council Collection is a national loan collection of modern and contemporary British Art. It was founded in 1946. The Collection continues to acquire works each year. The Arts Council Collection reaches its audience through loans to public institutions, touring exhibitions, digital and outreach projects. The Collection supports artists based in the UK through the purchase and display of their work, safeguarding it.\n\nThe Arts Council Collection has nearly 8000 works by more than 2000 artists and includes important examples by prominent British artists. Operating as a ‘museum without walls’, it is widely circulated and can be seen in museums and galleries across the UK and internationally. The Arts Council Collection also lends to public buildings, including universities, hospitals and charitable associations.\n\nThe Collection includes works by Henry Moore, Barbara Hepworth, Ben Nicholson, Francis Bacon, Lucian Freud, Victor Pasmore, David Hockney, Bridget Riley, Gilbert & George, Richard Hamilton, Richard Deacon, Antony Gormley, Mark Wallinger, Peter Doig, Damien Hirst, Rachel Whiteread, Chris Ofili, Steve McQueen, Mona Hatoum, Tracey Emin, Sarah Lucas, Grayson Perry, Glenn Brown, Jeremy Deller, Keith Coventry and Wolfgang Tillmans.\n\nAs a collection ‘without walls’, it has no permanent gallery; however, changing displays of sculpture, video and installations from the Arts Council Collection are regularly on view at Longside Gallery at Yorkshire Sculpture Park. As well as lending extensively to museums and galleries across the UK and abroad, the Collection can be seen in a regular programme of touring exhibitions - past exhibitions include \"Unpopular Culture: Grayson Perry curates the Arts Council Collection; No Such Thing as Society; Uncommon Ground: Land Art in Britain 1966 -1979\" and \"Kaleidoscope: Colour and Sequence in 1960s British Art.\"\n\nSince 1986, the Arts Council Collection has been managed by the Hayward Gallery, South Bank Centre on behalf of Arts Council England and is based at the Hayward Gallery in London and at Longside Gallery at Yorkshire Sculpture Park.\n\nEvery year the Arts Council Collection acquires work through an annual acquisitions process. Acquisitions are made through a committee of eight individuals: four internal and four external. The external advisers to the Acquisitions Committee usually include an artist, a writer and a curator, and are appointed for a fixed two-year tenure, alongside representatives from National Partners Programme venues who have a shorter, one-year tenure.\n\nCurrent Long Loan clients include: The Alnwick Garden, Northumberland; The Arts University, Bournemouth; Barbican Centre, London; Bath Spa University, Bath; BBC Trust, London; Cambridge Institute for Medical Research; Cancer Epidemiology Unit, Oxford; Chatham House, Royal Institute for International Affairs, London; Ferens Art Gallery, Hull; King's College, London; National Institute for Medical Research, London; Norwich University of the Arts, Norwich; Oxford Combined Court Centre, Oxford; Paintings in Hospitals (Nationwide); River and Rowing Museum, Henley on Thames; Royal Society of Arts, London; Said Business School, Oxford; Southbank Centre, London; St. George's Hospital Trust, London; Trinity Laban Conservatoire of Music and Dance, London; University College, MRC Laboratory for Molecular Cell Biology, London; University of Greenwich, London; University of Hull, Hull; University of Leicester, Leicester; The Wohl Virion Centre, London; Arts Council England, London; Arts Council England, Brighton; and Arts Council England, Nottingham.\n\n"}
{"id": "32664281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32664281", "title": "Bentley Book Prize", "text": "Bentley Book Prize\n\nThe World History Association Bentley Book Prize is an annual literary award given by the World History Association. It was first awarded in 1999 as the World History Association Book Prize; the name was changed in 2012 to honor Jerry H. Bentley. The prize is $500. , five of the winning books had been published by Cambridge University Press.\n\nIt should not be confused with the Jerry Bentley Prize in World History, a similar book prize established in 2014 by the American Historical Association.\n\nPast winners:\n\n"}
{"id": "204299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204299", "title": "Bicameralism", "text": "Bicameralism\n\nA bicameral legislature divides the legislators into two separate assemblies, chambers, or houses. Bicameralism is distinguished from unicameralism, in which all members deliberate and vote as a single group, and from some legislatures that have three or more separate assemblies, chambers, or houses. , fewer than half the world's national legislatures are bicameral.\n\nOften, the members of the two chambers are elected or selected by different methods, which vary from country to country. This can often lead to the two chambers having very different compositions of members.\n\nEnactment of primary legislation often requires a concurrent majority – the approval of a majority of members in each of the chambers of the legislature. When this is the case, the legislature may be called an example of perfect bicameralism. However, in many Westminster system parliaments, the house to which the executive is responsible can overrule the other house and may be regarded as an example of imperfect bicameralism. Some legislatures lie in between these two positions, with one house only able to overrule the other under certain circumstances.\n\nThe Founding Fathers of the United States favoured a bicameral legislature. The idea was to have the Senate be wealthier and wiser. Benjamin Rush saw this though, and noted that \"this type of dominion is almost always connected with opulence\". The Senate was created to be a stabilising force, elected not by mass electors, but selected by the State legislators. Senators would be more knowledgeable and more deliberate—a sort of republican nobility—and a counter to what Madison saw as the \"fickleness and passion\" that could absorb the House.\n\nHe noted further that \"The use of the Senate is to consist in its proceeding with more coolness, with more system and with more wisdom, than the popular branch.\" Madison's argument led the Framers to grant the Senate prerogatives in foreign policy, an area where steadiness, discretion, and caution were deemed especially important. State legislators chose the Senate, and senators had to possess significant property to be deemed worthy and sensible enough for the position. In 1913, the 17th Amendment passed, which mandated choosing Senators by popular vote rather than State legislatures.\n\nAs part of the Great Compromise, they invented a new rationale for bicameralism in which the Senate had states represented equally, and the House had them represented by population.\n\nThe British Parliament is often referred to as the \"Mother of Parliaments\" (in fact a misquotation of John Bright, who remarked in 1865 that \"England is the Mother of Parliaments\") because the British Parliament has been the model for most other parliamentary systems, and its Acts have created many other parliaments. Many nations with parliaments have to some degree emulated the British \"three-tier\" model. Most countries in Europe and the Commonwealth have similarly organised parliaments with a largely ceremonial head of state who formally opens and closes parliament, a large elected lower house, and a smaller upper house.\n\nThere have been a number of rationales put forward in favour of bicameralism, federal states have often adopted it, and the solution remains popular when regional differences or sensitivities require more explicit representation, with the second chamber representing the constituent states. Nevertheless, the older justification for second chambers—providing opportunities for second thoughts about legislation—has survived.\n\nGrowing awareness of the complexity of the notion of representation and the multifunctional nature of modern legislatures may be affording incipient new rationales for second chambers, though these do generally remain contested institutions in ways that first chambers are not. An example of political controversy regarding a second chamber has been the debate over the powers of the Senate of Canada or the election of the Senate of France.\n\nThe relationship between the two chambers varies; in some cases, they have equal power, while in others, one chamber is clearly superior in its powers. The first tends to be the case in federal systems and those with presidential governments. The latter tends to be the case in unitary states with parliamentary systems.\n\nThere are two streams of thought: Critics believe bicameralism makes meaningful political reforms more difficult to achieve and increases the risk of gridlock—particularly in cases where both chambers have similar powers—while proponents argue the merits of the \"checks and balances\" provided by the bicameral model, which they believe help prevent the passage into law of ill-considered legislation.\n\nFormal communication between houses is by various methods, including:\n\nSome countries, such as Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Brazil, Canada, Germany, India, Malaysia, Mexico, Pakistan, Russia, Switzerland, Nigeria, and the United States, link their bicameral systems to their federal political structure.\n\nIn the United States, Australia, and Mexico, for example, each state is given the same number of seats in one of the houses of the legislature, despite variance in the population of each state — it is designed to ensure that smaller states are not overshadowed by larger states, which may have more representation in the other house of the legislature.\n\nIn Canada, the country as a whole is divided into a number of Senate Divisions, each with a different number of Senators, based on a number of factors. These Divisions are Quebec, Ontario, Western Provinces, and the Maritimes, each with 24 Senators, Yukon, Northwest Territories, Nunavut, each with 1 Senator, and Newfoundland and Labrador has 6 Senators, making for a total of 105 Senators.\n\nSenators in Canada are not elected by the people but are appointed by the Governor General on the advice of the Prime Minister. The Senate does not originate most legislation (although a small fraction of government bills are introduced in the Senate and Senators may introduce private members' bills in the same way as MPs) but acts as a chamber of revision almost always passing legislation approved by the House of Commons, made up of Members of Parliament (MPs) who are elected. The Senate must pass legislation before it becomes law and can therefore act as a wise facilitator or engage in filibuster. The Senate does not have to endure the accountability and scrutiny of parliamentary elections. Therefore, the bicameral structure of Canadian parliament is more \"de jure\" than \"de facto\".\n\nThe bicameral Parliament of Australia consists of two Houses, the lower house is called the House of Representatives and the upper house is named the Senate. The lower house currently consists of 150 members, each elected from single member constituencies, known as electoral divisions (commonly referred to as \"electorates\" or \"seats\") using full-preference Instant-runoff voting. This tends to lead to the chamber being dominated by two major parties, the Liberal/National Coalition and the Labor Party. The government of the day must achieve the confidence of this House to gain and hold power.\n\nThe upper house, the Senate, is also popularly elected under the single transferable vote system of proportional representation. There are a total of 76 senators: 12 senators are elected from each of the six Australian states (regardless of population) and two from each of the two autonomous internal territories (the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory).\n\nUnlike upper houses in most Westminster parliamentary systems, the Australian Senate is vested with significant power, including the capacity to block legislation initiated by the government in the House of Representatives, making it a distinctive hybrid of British Westminster bicameralism and US-style bicameralism. As a result of proportional representation, the chamber features a multitude of parties vying for power. The governing party or coalition, which must maintain the confidence of the lower house, rarely has a majority in the Senate and usually needs to negotiate with other parties and Independents to get legislation passed.\n\nIn the German, Indian, and Pakistani systems, the upper houses (the Bundesrat, the Rajya Sabha, and the Senate respectively) are even more closely linked with the federal system, being appointed or elected directly by the governments or legislatures of each German or Indian state, or Pakistani province. This was also the case in the United States before the Seventeenth Amendment was adopted. Because of this coupling to the executive branch, German legal doctrine does not treat the \"Bundesrat\" as the second chamber of a bicameral system formally. Rather, it sees the \"Bundesrat\" and the \"Bundestag\" as independent constitutional bodies. Only the directly elected \"Bundestag\" is considered the parliament. In the German \"Bundesrat\", the various \"Länder\" have between three and six votes; thus, while the less populated states have a lower weight, they still have a stronger voting power than would be the case in a system based \"purely\" on population, as the most populous \"Land\" currently has about 27 times the population of the least populous. The Indian Upper House does not have the states represented equally, but on the basis of their population.\n\nThere is also bicameralism in countries that are not federations, but have upper houses with representation on a territorial basis. For example, in South Africa, the National Council of Provinces (and before 1997, the Senate) has its members chosen by each Province's legislature.\n\nIn Spain the Senate functions as a \"de facto\" territorial-based upper house, and there has been some pressure from the Autonomous Communities to reform it into a strictly territorial chamber.\n\nThe European Union maintains a bicameral legislative system consisting of the European Parliament, which is elected in elections on the basis of universal suffrage, and the Council of the European Union, which consists of one representative for each Government of member countries, who are competent for a relevant field of legislation. The European Union is not considered a country nor a state, but it enjoys the power to address national Governments in many areas.\n\nIn a few countries, bicameralism involves the juxtaposition of democratic and aristocratic elements.\n\nThe best known example is the British House of Lords, which includes a number of hereditary peers. The House of Lords is a vestige of the aristocratic system that once predominated in British politics, while the other house, the House of Commons, is entirely elected. Over the years, some have proposed reforms to the House of Lords, some of which have been at least partly successful. The House of Lords Act 1999 limited the number of hereditary peers (as opposed to life peers, appointed by the Monarch on the advice of the Prime Minister) to 92, down from around 700. Of these 92, one is the Earl Marshal, a hereditary office always held by the Duke of Norfolk, one is the Lord Great Chamberlain, a hereditary office held by turns, currently by the Marquess of Cholmondeley, and the other 90 are elected by all sitting peers. Hereditary peers elected by the House to sit as representative peers sit for life; when a representative peer dies, byelections occur to fill the vacancy. The ability of the House of Lords to block legislation is curtailed by the Parliament Acts 1911 and 1949. Peers can introduce bills except Money Bills, and all legislation must be passed by both Houses of Parliament. If not passed within two sessions, the House of Commons can override the Lords delay by invoking the Parliament Act. Certain legislation, however, must be approved by both Houses and can't be forced through by the Commons under the Parliament Act. These include any bill that would extend the time length of a Parliament, private bills, bills sent to the House of Lords less than one month before the end of a session, and bills that originated in the House of Lords.\n\nLife Peers are appointed either by recommendation of the Appointment Commission; the independent body that vets non-partisan peers, typically from academia, business or culture, or by Dissolution Honour, which takes place at the end of every Parliamentary term and leaving MPs may be offered a seat to keep their institutional memory. It is traditional to offer a peerage to every outgoing Speaker of the House of Commons.\n\nFurther reform of the Lords has been proposed; however, reform is not supported by many. Members of the House of Lords all have an aristocratic title, or are from the Clergy. 26 Archbishops and Bishops of the Church of England sit as Lords Spiritual, being the Archbishop of Canterbury, Archbishop of York, the Bishop of London, the Bishop of Durham, the Bishop of Winchester and the next 21 longest-serving Bishops. It is usual that retiring Archbishops, and certain other Bishops, are appointed to the Crossbenches and given a life peerage. Until 2009, 12 Lords of Appeal in Ordinary sat in the House as the highest court in the land; they subsequently became justices of the newly created Supreme Court of the United Kingdom. At present, 786 people sit in the House of Lords, with 92 Hereditary, 26 being Bishops or Archbishops (the Lords Spiritual) and the rest being Life Peers. Membership is not fixed and decreases only on the death of a life peer.\n\nAnother example of aristocratic bicameralism was the Japanese House of Peers, abolished after World War II and replaced with the present House of Councillors.\n\nMany bicameral countries like the Netherlands, the Philippines, the Czech Republic, the Republic of Ireland and Romania are examples of bicameral systems existing in unitary states. In countries such as these, the upper house generally focuses on scrutinizing and possibly vetoing the decisions of the lower house.\n\nOn the other hand, in Italy the Parliament consists of two chambers that have the same role and power: the Senate (Senate of the Republic, commonly considered the \"upper house\") and the Chamber of Deputies (considered the \"lower house\").\n\nIn some of these countries, the upper house is indirectly elected. Members of France's Senate and Ireland's Seanad Éireann are chosen by electoral colleges, the latter's consisting of members of the lower house, local councillors, the Taoiseach, and graduates of selected universities, while the Netherlands' Senate is chosen by members of provincial assemblies (which, in turn, are directly elected).\n\nNorway had a kind of semi-bicameral legislature with two chambers, or departments, within the same elected body, the Storting. These were called the Odelsting and were abolished after the general election of 2009. According to Morten Søberg, there was a related system in the 1798 constitution of the Batavian Republic.\n\nIn Hong Kong, members of the unicameral Legislative Council returned from the democratically elected geographical constituencies and partially-democratic functional constituencies are required to vote separately since 1997 on motions, bills or amendments to government bills not introduced by the government. The passage of these motions, bills or amendments to government bills requires double majority in both groups simultaneously. (Before 2004, when elections to the Legislative Council from the Election Committee was abolished, members returned through the Election Committee vote with members returned from geographical constituencies.) The double majority requirement does not apply to motions, bills and amendments introduced by the government.\n\nIn some countries with federal systems, individual states (like those of the United States, Australia and a few States of India) may also have bicameral legislatures. A few such states as Nebraska in the U.S., Queensland in Australia, Bavaria in Germany, and Tucumán and Córdoba in Argentina have later adopted unicameral systems. Brazilian states and Canadian provinces had all their upper houses abolished.\n\nIn Argentina, eight provinces have bicameral legislatures, with a Senate and a Chamber of Deputies: Buenos Aires, Catamarca, Corrientes, Entre Ríos, Mendoza, Salta, San Luis (since 1987) and Santa Fe. Tucumán and Córdoba changed to unicameral systems in 1990 and 2001 respectively.\n\nIn Australian states, the lower house was traditionally elected based on the one-vote-one-value principle, whereas the upper house was partially appointed and elected, with a bias towards country voters and landowners. In Queensland, the appointed upper house was abolished in 1922, while in New South Wales there were similar attempts at abolition, before the upper house was reformed in the 1970s to provide for direct election. Nowadays, the upper house both federally and in most states is elected using the Single transferable vote form of proportional representation while the lower house uses Instant-runoff voting in single member electorates. This is reversed in the state of Tasmania, where proportional representation is used for the lower house and single member electorates for the upper house.\n\nThe Legislature of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, one of the two entities of Bosnia and Herzegovina, is a bicameral legislative body. It consists of two chambers. \nThe House of Representatives has 98 delegates, elected for four-year terms by proportional representation.\nThe House of Peoples has 58 members, 17 delegates from among each of the constituent peoples of the Federation, and 7 delegates from among the other peoples. Republika Srpska, the other entity, has a unicameral parliament, known as the National Assembly.\n\nThe German federal state of Bavaria had a bicameral legislature from 1946 to 1999, when the Senate was abolished by a referendum amending the state's constitution. The other 15 states have used a unicameral system since their founding.\n\nSeven Indian States, Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Jammu and Kashmir, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Telangana and Uttar Pradesh, have bicameral Legislatures, in these states the upper house is called Vidhan Parishad (Legislative Councils), one third of whom members are elected every two years. Among the members of legislative councils:\n\n\nFrom 1956 to 1958 the Andhra Pradesh Legislature was unicameral. In 1958, when the Legislative Council was formed, it became bicameral until 1 June 1985 when it was abolished. This continued until March 2007 when the Legislative Council was reestablished and elections were held for its seats. Since then the Andhra Pradesh Legislature has become once again bicameral. \nIn Tamil Nadu, a resolution was passed on 14 May 1986 and the Legislative Council was dissolved on 1 November 1986. Again on 12 April 2010, a resolution was passed to bring it back bicameral, but became unsuccessful in 2011. Similarly the states of Assam, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab and West Bengal have also dissolved the upper house of their state legislature.\n\nUnder Soviet regime regional and local Soviets were unicameral. After the adoption of 1993 Russian Constitution bicameralism was introduced in some regions. Bicameral regional legislatures are still technically allowed by federal law but this clause is dormant now. The last region to switch from bicameralism to unicameralism was Sverdlovsk Oblast in 2012.\n\nDuring the 1930s, the Legislature of the State of Nebraska was reduced from bicameral to unicameral with the 43 members that once comprised that state's Senate. One of the arguments used to sell the idea at the time to Nebraska voters was that by adopting a unicameral system, the perceived evils of the \"conference committee\" process would be eliminated.\n\nA conference committee is appointed when the two chambers cannot agree on the same wording of a proposal, and consists of a small number of legislators from each chamber. This tends to place much power in the hands of only a small number of legislators. Whatever legislation, if any, the conference committee finalizes must then be approved in an unamendable \"take-it-or-leave-it\" manner by both chambers.\n\nDuring his term as Governor of the State of Minnesota, Jesse Ventura proposed converting the Minnesotan legislature to a single chamber with proportional representation, as a reform that he felt would solve many legislative difficulties and impinge upon legislative corruption. In his book on political issues, \"Do I Stand Alone?\", Ventura argued that bicameral legislatures for provincial and local areas were excessive and unnecessary, and discussed unicameralism as a reform that could address many legislative and budgetary problems for states.\n\nA 2005 report on democratic reform in the Arab world by the U.S. Council on Foreign Relations co-sponsored by former Secretary of State Madeleine Albright urged Arab states to adopt bicameralism, with upper chambers appointed on a 'specialized basis'. The Council claimed that this would protect against the 'Tyranny of the majority', expressing concerns that without a system of checks and balances extremists would use the single chamber parliaments to restrict the rights of minority groups.\n\nIn 2002, Bahrain adopted a bicameral system with an elected lower chamber and an appointed upper house. This led to a boycott of parliamentary elections that year by the Al Wefaq party, who said that the government would use the upper house to veto their plans. Many secular critics of bicameralism were won around to its benefits in 2005, after many MPs in the lower house voted for the introduction of so-called morality police.\n\nA referendum on introducing a unicameral Parliament instead of the current bicameral Parliament was held in Romania on 22 November 2009. The turnout rate was 50.95%, with 77.78% of \"Yes\" votes for a unicameral Parliament. This referendum had a consultative role, thus requiring a parliamentary initiative and another referendum to ratify the new proposed changes.\n\nA referendum on a new constitution was held on 30 October 2016. The constitution draft would create a bicameral Parliament instead of the current unicameral. The Senate is expected to represent the interests of territorial collectivities and Ivoirians living abroad. Two thirds of the Senate is to be elected at the same time as the general election. The remaining one third is appointed by the president elect.\n\n"}
{"id": "9534983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9534983", "title": "Biocultural diversity", "text": "Biocultural diversity\n\nBiocultural diversity is defined by Luisa Maffi as \"the diversity of life in all its manifestations: biological, cultural, and linguistic — which are interrelated (and possibly coevolved) within a complex socio-ecological adaptive system.\" \"The diversity of life is made up not only of the diversity of plants and animal species, habitats and ecosystems found on the planet, but also of the diversity of human cultures and languages.\" Certain geographic areas have been positively correlated with high levels of biocultural diversity, including those of low latitudes, higher rainfalls, higher temperatures, coastlines, and high altitudes. A negative correlation is found with areas of high latitudes, plains, and drier climates. Positive correlations can also be found between biological diversity and linguistic diversity, illustrated in the overlap between the distribution of plant diverse and language diverse zones. Social factors, such as modes of subsistence, have also been found to affect biocultural diversity.\n\nCultural traditions are passed down through language, making language an important factor in the existence of biocultural diversity. There has been a decline in the number of languages globally. The Linguistic Diversity Index has recorded that between 1970 and 2005, the number of languages spoken globally has decreased by 20%. This decline has been especially observed in indigenous languages, with a 60% decline in the Americas, 30% in the Pacific, and 20% in Africa. Currently, there are 7,000 languages being spoken in the world. Half the population speaks only 25 of these languages, the top 5 in order being Mandarin, Spanish, English, Hindi, and Bengali. The remaining 6975 languages are divided between the other half of the population.\nBecause languages develop in a given community of speakers as that society adapts to its environment, languages reflect and express the biodiversity of that area. In areas of high biodiversity, language diversity is also higher, suggesting that a greater diversity in culture can be found in these areas. In fact, many of the areas of the world inhabited by smaller, isolated communities are also home to large numbers of endemic plant and animal species. As these people are often considered to be \"stewards\" of their environments, loss of language diversity means a disappearance of traditional ecological knowledge (TEK), an important factor in the conservation of biodiversity.\n\nAwareness about the balance between biological and cultural diversity has been increasing for a few decades. At the first international congress on ethnobiology in 1988, scientists met with indigenous peoples to discuss ways to better manage the use of natural resources and protect vulnerable communities around the world. They developed the Declaration of Belem, named after the city where the congress was held, which outlined eight steps to ensure conservation efforts would be implemented effectively.\n\nThere are three areas which have been identified as hotspots of biocultural diversity: The Amazon Basin, Central Africa, and Indomalaysia/Malenesia. Hot spots of biocultural diversity can be calculated by averaging a countries biological diversity and cultural diversity. Cultural diversity is scored based on \"a country's language diversity, religion diversity, and ethnic group diversity\". Recent programs in the Eastern Himalayas have also engaged this concept to promote conservation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52526358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52526358", "title": "Books.com.tw", "text": "Books.com.tw\n\nBooks.com.tw or Pok'elai (), originally established as an online bookstore, is Taiwan's largest Internet retailer.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5376865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5376865", "title": "Cardale Babington", "text": "Cardale Babington\n\nCharles Cardale Babington (23 November 1808 – 22 July 1895) was an English botanist and archaeologist. He was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1851.\nBabington was the son of Joseph Babington and Cathérine née Whitter, and a nephew of Thomas Babington Macaulay. He was educated at Charterhouse and St John's College, Cambridge, obtaining his Bachelor of Arts in 1830 and his Master of Arts in 1833. He overlapped at Cambridge with Charles Darwin, and in 1829 they argued over who should have the pick of beetle specimens from a local dealer.\nHe obtained the chair of botany at the University of Cambridge in 1861 and wrote several papers on insects. He married Anna Maria Walker on 3 April 1866.\n\nBabington was a member of several scientific societies including the Botanical Society of Edinburgh, the Linnean Society of London (1853), the Geological Society of London, the Royal Society (1851), and in 1833 he participated in the foundation of the Royal Entomological Society. Babington was President of the Cambrian Archaeological Association at their meeting at Church Stretton in 1881 and for many years served as Chairman of the council of the Association.\n\nHe wrote \"Manual of British Botany\" (1843), \"Flora of Cambridgeshire\" (1860), \"The British Rubi\" (1869) and edited the publication Annals and Magazine of Natural History from 1842. His herbarium and library are conserved by the University of Cambridge.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30500292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30500292", "title": "Communication Theory as a Field", "text": "Communication Theory as a Field\n\n\"Communication Theory as a Field\" is a 1999 article by Robert T. Craig, attempting to unify the academic field of communication theory.\n\nCraig argues that communication theorists can become unified in dialogue by charting what he calls the \"dialogical dialectical tension\", or the similarities and differences in their understanding of \"communication\" and demonstrating how those elements create tension within the field. Craig mapped these similarities and differences into seven suggested traditions of communication theory and showed how each of these traditions understand communication, as well as how each traditions understanding creates tension with the other traditions.\n\nThe article has received multiple awards, has become the foundation for many communication theory textbooks, and has been translated into several different languages.\n\n\"Communication theory as a field\" has created two main dialogues between Craig and other theorists. Myers argued that Craig misrepresented the theoretical assumptions of his theory, and that the theory itself does not distinguish between good and bad theories. Craig responded that Myers misunderstood not only the basic argument of the article, but also misrepresented his own case study. Russill proposed pragmatism as an eighth tradition of communication theory, Craig responded by expanding this idea and placing Russill's proposition in conversation with the other seven traditions.\n\n\"Communication Theory as a Field\" has been recognized by multiple associations for its influence upon the field of communication. These awards include the Best Article Award from the International Communication Association as well as the Golden Anniversary Monograph Award from the National Communication Association. That work has since been translated into French and Russian. The theory presented in \"Communication Theory as a Field\" has become the basis of the book \"Theorizing Communication\" which Craig co-edited with Heidi Muller, as well as being adopted by several other communication theory textbooks as a new framework for understanding the field of communication theory.\n\nSparked by the \"Third Debate\" within the field of International Relations Theory in the 1980s, \"Communication Theory as a Field\" expanded the conversation regarding disciplinary identity in the field of communication. At that time, communication theory textbooks had little to no agreement on how to present the field or what theories to include in their textbooks. This article has since become the foundational framework for four different textbooks to introduce the field of communication. In this article Craig \"proposes a vision for communication theory that takes a huge step toward unifying this rather disparate field and addressing its complexities.\" To move toward this unifying vision Craig focused on communication theory as a practical discipline and shows how \"various traditions of communication theory can be engaged in dialogue on the practice of communication.\" In this deliberative process theorists would engage in dialog about the \"practical implications of communication theories.\" In the end Craig proposes seven different traditions of communication theory and outlines how each one of them would engage the others in dialogue.\n\nCraig argues that while the study of communication and communication theory has become a rich and flourishing field \"Communication theory as an identifiable field of study does not yet exist\" and the field of communication theory has become fragmented into separate domains which simply ignore each other. This inability to engage in dialog with one another causes theorists to view communication from isolated viewpoints, and denies them the richness that is available when engaging different perspectives. Craig argues that communication theorists are all engaging in the study of practical communication. By doing so different traditions are able to have a common ground from which a dialog can form, albeit each taking a different perspective of communication. Through this process of forming a dialog between theorists with different viewpoints on communication \"communication theory can fully engage with the ongoing practical discourse (or metadiscourse) about communication in society.\"\n\nThe communication discipline began not as a single discipline, but through many different disciplines independently researching communication. This interdisciplinary beginning has separated theorists through their different conceptions of communication, rather than unifying them in the common topic of communication. Craig argues that the solution to this incoherence in the field of communication is not a unified theory of communication, but to create a dialogue between these theorists which engages these differences with one another to create new understandings of communication.\n\nTo achieve this dialog Craig proposes what he calls \"Dialogical-Dialectical coherence,\" or a \"common awareness of certain complementaries and tensions among different types of communication theory.\" Craig believes that the different theories cannot develop in total isolation from one another, therefore this dialogical-dialectical coherence will provide a set of background assumptions from which different theories can engage each other in productive argumentation. Craig argues for a metatheory, or \"second level\" theory which deals with \"first level\" theories about communication. This second level metamodel of communication theory would help to understand the differences between first level communication traditions. With this thesis in place, Craig proposes seven suggested traditions of communication that have emerged and each of which have their own way of understanding communication.\n\nThese proposed seven traditions of communication theory are then placed on two separate tables first to show how each traditions different interpretation of communication defines the tradition's vocabulary, communication problems, and commonplaces, and next to show what argumentation between the traditions would look like. Craig then outlines the specifics of each tradition.\n\nCraig concluded with an open invitation to explore how the differences in these theories might shed light on key issues, show where new traditions could be created, and engaging communication theory with communication problems through metadiscourse. Craig further proposes several future traditions that could possibly be fit into the metamodel. A feminist tradition where communication is theorized as \"connectedness to others\", an aesthetic tradition theorizing communication as \"embodied performance\", an economic tradition theorizing communication as \"exchange\", and a spiritual tradition theorizing communication on a \"nonmaterial or mystical plane of existence.\"\n\nIn 2001 Myers, a computer-mediated communication scholar from Loyola University New Orleans, criticizes Craig's ideas in \"A Pox on All Compromises: A reply to Craig (1999).\" Myers makes two main arguments against Craig's article. Myers argues that Craig misrepresents the metamodel, and that the lack of any critical truth within Craigs construction is problematic for the field of communication theory. The metamodel is misrepresented by unjustly arguing that there is a separation between first and second level constitutive models while hiding the paradox within this statement, and that it privileges the constitutive model rather than another theoretical conception. Next Myers argues that Craig fails to draw any way to discern truth within the theories. Using a case study regarding the rise and fall of technological determinism among computer-mediated communication scholars, Myers argues that a metamodel needs to provide some mechanism that will \"reduce misrepresentation and mistake\" in evaluating theory. Myers frames Craig's ideas of collective discourse without an evaluative criteria of what is good theory and bad theory as \"a Mad Hatter's tea party\" which will \"allow all to participate in this party of discourse\" but will not be able to \"inform any of the participants when it is time to leave.\"\n\nCraig responded, in \"an almost Jamesian reply\", that Myers criticisms were not founded in actual inconsistencies within Craigs argument. Rather they were founded in the difference between Myers and Craig's \"respective notions of truth and the proper role of empirical truth as a criterion for adjudicating among theories.\" In regard to Myers first claim that the separation between first level theories and second level metatheory is paradoxical and therefore an inaccurate or misguided distinction, Craig admits that there is a paradox inherent within a separation between first order theories and metatheory but \"slippage between logical levels is an inherent feature (or bug) of communication, and we should not forget that theory is, among other things, communication. \" Craig cites Gregory Bateson as pointing out that while the theory of logical types forbids the mixing of different \"levels\" to avoid paradox, \"practical communication necessarily does exactly that.\" Actual communication is fraught with paradox, and while a logicians ideal would have us try and resolve these paradoxes, in actual practice we don't because there is no way to do so. In actually occurring communication people employ different means of dealing with this paradox, but resolving the paradox is not a possible solution. Craig argues that Myers has been unable to prove any inconsistency or misrepresentation when it came to using the constitutive model for his metamodel. Rather than trying to subvert every other theory to a constitutional model, Craig used the constitutive model not for some theory of truth or logical necessity, but because the constitutive model pragmatically will accomplish the goal of the project, that of opening up a space from which competing theories of communication can interact. With this the constitutional model will be able to maintain a theoretical cosmopolitanism.\n\nOn the second argument that the metamodel lacks any empirical truth criteria, Craig argues that not only did Myers miss the point of the metamodel by claiming it should evaluate the truth of theories but that Myers own case study fails to back up his point. The metamodel itself does not distinguish the falseness of other models. However, contrary to Myers claim, the metamodel does allow theorists engaged in discussion to judge the validity of theories \"on the basis of empirical evidence in ordinary reasonable ways.\" What the metamodel does deny is a universally established absolute truth in the field of communication theory. Craig points out that Myers was correct in that the metamodel is ill-equipped to judge theories as valid or invalid, it also doesn't do a good job of closing \"the Antarctic ozone hole or solve other problems for which it was not designed.\" The case study that Myers presents is the debate about technological determinism in the realm of Computer Mediated Communication. Craig points out that this debate occurred between social scientific researchers. This type of research has a shared commitment to empirical research methods. So in spite of already possessing a shared truth criteria, these researchers failed to prevent errors Myers hopes would be avoided by holding onto a form of absolute truth. This case study would be a good critique of empirical truth but \"how it supports a critique of the constitutive metamodel is less than apparent.\" By relying upon this case study Myers sabotages his argument for establishing an absolute truth criteria, demonstrating that \"we would gain little by holding on to such a criterion.\"\n\nAfter this exchange between Myers and Craig, there was no real disciplinary discussion of the metamodel besides textbooks which used the metamodel as a framework for introducing the field.\nThen in 2004 in an unpublished dissertation, which was mentioned in a footnote in his 2005 \"The road not Taken: William James's Radical Empiricism and Communication Theory,\" Russill proposed the possibly of pragmatism as an eighth tradition of communication studies. This was attempted by using \"Craig's rules\" for the requirements of a tradition in communication theory which Russill formulates as \"a problem formulation..., an initial vocabulary..., and arguments for the plausibility of this viewpoint in relation to prevailing traditions of theory.\"\n\nRussill did not write his dissertation with the goal of constructing a tradition of communication theory, rather he was attempting to \"resuscitate and reconstruct Dewey's theory of the public as a pragmatist theory of democratic communication.\" To accomplish this goal Russill places Dewey in conversation with a variety of theorists including William James, John Locke, James Carey, Michel Foucault, Jürgen Habermas, and Walter Lippmann among others. Russill makes the argument that the pragmatist tradition \"conceptualizes communication in response to the problem of incommensurability.\" Incommensurability being how a pluralistic society can engage in cooperation when there is an absence \"of common, absolute standards for resolving differences.\" Russill briefly attempted to construct a pragmatist tradition of communication only to establish Dewey's theory of the public within that tradition. To do this he outlines pragmatism as a tradition that identifies the problem formulation as \"incommensurability\", and the vocabulary as \"democracy, publics, power, criticism, response-ability, triple contingency.\"\n\nCraig responds to this in \"Pragmatism in the Field of Communication Theory\" and mentions that while Russill \"does not entirely follow 'Craig's Rules'\" for a new tradition of communication theory, Russill \"does define a pragmatist tradition in terms of a distinct way of framing the problem of communication and articulates premises that make the tradition theoretically and practically plausible.\" Craig points out that Russill is not the first communication theorists who writes on pragmatism, however he is the first to use the constitutive metamodel to define it as a tradition of communication. This conception of pragmatism as an eighth tradition of communication studies allows a new space for theories, which Craig identified as either ambiguously placed or neglected, to \"immediately snap into focus as contributors to a distinct [pragmatic] tradition.\"\n\nTo fully outline a new tradition of communication theory, Russill would have had to fully incorporate that tradition within the dialogical-dialectical matrix. Russill failed to fully consider the full range of criticism which would occur between the Pragmatist tradition and the other traditions of communication. Craig uses the dialogical-dialectical matrix to outline how pragmatism could be incorporated into the metamodel.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3826242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3826242", "title": "Contour rivalry", "text": "Contour rivalry\n\nContour rivalry is an artistic technique used to create multiple possible visual interpretations of an image. An image may be viewed as depicting one thing when viewed in a certain way; but if the image is flipped or turned, the same lines that formed the previous image now make up an entirely new design.\nThis technique was widely practiced by the artists of the Chavín culture of the central Andes about two thousand years ago. An example of this technique from the Chavín is the Raimondi Stela.\n\n"}
{"id": "9536083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9536083", "title": "Controversial literature (Library of Congress Subject Headings)", "text": "Controversial literature (Library of Congress Subject Headings)\n\nControversial literature is a subdivision of the Library of Congress Subject Headings, used in the description of religious books. In this context, it has the following narrow use: \"under names of individual religious and monastic orders, individual religions, individual Christian denominations, and uniform titles of sacred works for works that argue against or express opposition to those groups or works\". Prior to 1998 the subdivision was permitted for 'general religious and philosophical topics'.\n\n"}
{"id": "35335055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35335055", "title": "Cultural Studies (journal)", "text": "Cultural Studies (journal)\n\nCultural Studies is a bimonthly peer-reviewed academic journal covering research on the relation between cultural practices, everyday life, material, economic, political, geographical, and historical contexts. The editor-in-chief is Lawrence Grossberg (University of North Carolina). It was established in 1987 and is published by Routledge.\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in\n\nAccording to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2012 impact factor of 0.526.\n"}
{"id": "27993143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27993143", "title": "Donnie Brasco: My Undercover Life in the Mafia", "text": "Donnie Brasco: My Undercover Life in the Mafia\n\nDonnie Brasco: My Undercover Life in the Mafia (Hodder & Stoughton. ) is a 1988 autobiographical crime book written by Joseph D. Pistone (assisted by Richard Woodley) about his story as an FBI agent going undercover and infiltrating the Mafia. In 1997, the book was made into a feature film titled \"Donnie Brasco\", starring Johnny Depp and Al Pacino. Louis DiGiaimo, a casting director who worked on \"The Godfather\" and a childhood friend of Pistone, consulted on the book and film. The book was re-released in a second edition the same year the film was released.\n\nPistone becomes an FBI agent after spending time working for Naval Intelligence. He first goes undercover to infiltrate a theft ring. The operation pays off when the FBI arrests one of the largest and most profitable theft rings in history.\n\nAfter the success of the operation, the FBI and Pistone consider going undercover and infiltrating truck hijacking gangs and the Mafia. After months of preparation, the FBI erases Pistone's personal history and he goes undercover as Donald Brasco, an expert jewel thief from Miami, Florida. Hanging out at known crime spots, such as bars and social clubs, he eventually befriends a bartender and joins a crime gang.\n\nHe moves on to Jilly Greca's crew, who are associates in the Colombo crime family. The crew are involved in truck hijacking and selling stolen merchandise. Brasco meets Anthony Mirra and the two begin hanging out. Mirra is a soldier in the Bonanno crime family and is a lot better connected, respected and feared than Greca's crew. Brasco decides it would be a better choice for the operation to go with Mirra, so he starts hanging out more with Mirra.\n\nThrough Mirra, Brasco meets another Bonanno soldier called Benjamin \"Lefty\" Ruggiero. When Mirra is sent back to prison, Brasco and Lefty become close friends. Brasco gains the reputation of being a trustworthy and good earner. He is responsible for several lucrative business ventures, including the \"Kings Court Bottle Club\" in Florida, which begins a good relationship with the Bonannos and Santo Trafficante.\n\nThe Bonannos, particularly captain Dominick \"Sonny Black\" Napolitano, are happy with Brasco's work and are prepared to sponsor him for membership into the mafia. Brasco struggles in his personal life because he does not see his real family often, spending months without seeing his wife and three daughters. A family dispute breaks out over who \"owns\" Donnie Brasco. Mirra claims he owns him since he brought him in, Lefty says he owns him because he was the first to put a claim on him, and Sonny Black as the captain says Brasco belongs to him.\n\nAfter six years undercover, the operation becomes increasingly dangerous. Three powerful captains are murdered; gunned down by fellow Bonanno family members. The FBI want to pull the plug on the operation due to the danger of Brasco getting killed. Pistone wants to stay at least until he gets \"made\", in order to prove that the mafia is not invincible. A date is set when Brasco is ordered to come out of the operation. There are six weeks left until Brasco is revealed to be an FBI agent.\n\nTo become a made man, Brasco is ordered to kill Anthony \"Bruno\" Indelicato, although Bruno has fled New York. FBI agents eventually reveal to Sonny Black that their associate is actually an agent. Although Sonny Black and others consider it hard to believe that Brasco is an agent, he informs his superiors. The men responsible for bringing Brasco into the family are ordered to be murdered. Sonny Black and Mirra are murdered, while Lefty escapes death when he is arrested before he arrives at a meeting.\n\nPistone's work is not complete yet as he has to testify at trials all over America. Operation Donnie Brasco leads to more than 200 indictments and over 100 convictions of mafia members.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "965906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=965906", "title": "Du Pont family", "text": "Du Pont family\n\nThe Du Pont family () is an American family descended from Pierre Samuel du Pont de Nemours (1739–1817). Since the 19th century, the Du Pont family has been one of the richest families in America.\n\nMany former Du Pont family estates have been opened to the public as museums, gardens, or parks, such as Nemours Mansion and Gardens, Longwood Gardens, and Winterthur Museum, Garden and Library. The family's first American estate, located at Hagley Museum and Library, has been designated a National Historic Landmark. In recent years, the family has continued to be known for its association with political and business ventures, as well as philanthropic efforts on behalf of various organizations such as The Jockey Club, the Philadelphia Orchestra, the Delaware Art Museum, and the Grand Opera House.\n\nTwo family members were the subjects of well-publicized criminal cases. Heir John Eleuthère du Pont was convicted of murdering wrestling coach Dave Schultz in 1996 and heir Robert H. Richards IV was convicted of raping his 3-year-old daughter in 2009.\n\nThe family is depicted in the 2014 biographical film \"Foxcatcher\" with Steve Carell playing John Eleuthère du Pont and Vanessa Redgrave playing Jean du Pont, the wife of William du Pont, Jr.\n\nThe family fortune as of 2016 was $14.3 billion with over 3,500 living members around the world, most of whom are only marginally related.\n\nPierre Samuel du Pont de Nemours was the son of a Parisian watchmaker and a member of a Burgundian Huguenot family, and descendant of a minor noble family on his mother's side. He and his sons, Victor Marie du Pont and Éleuthère Irénée du Pont, emigrated from France in 1800 to the United States and used the resources of their Huguenot heritage to found one of the most prominent of American families, and one of its most successful corporations, E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company, initially established by Éleuthère Irénée as a gunpowder manufacturer.\n\nIn 1802, Éleuthère Irénée du Pont established a gunpowder mill on the banks of the Brandywine River near Wilmington, Delaware. The location provided all the necessities to operate the mill: a water flow sufficient to power it, available timber (mainly willow trees) that could be turned into charcoal fine enough to use for gunpowder, close proximity to the Delaware River to allow for shipments of sulfur and saltpeter, the other ingredients used in the manufacture of gunpowder. There were also nearby stone quarries to provide needed building materials.\n\nOver time the Du Pont company grew into the largest black powder manufacturing firm in the world. The family remained in control of the company up through the 1960s and family trusts still own a substantial amount of the company's stock. This and other companies run by the Du Pont family employed up to 10 percent of Delaware's population at its peak. During the 19th century, the Du Pont family maintained their family wealth by carefully arranged marriages between cousins which, at the time, was the norm for many families.\n\nThe family played a large part in politics during the 18th and 19th centuries and assisted in negotiations for the Treaty of Paris and the Louisiana purchase. Both T. Coleman and Henry A. du Pont served as U.S. senators, and Pierre S. du Pont, IV served as Governor of Delaware.\n\nThe family has also played an important role in historic preservation and land conservation, including helping to found the National Trust for Historic Preservation, preserving President James Madison's home Montpelier, and establishing numerous museums such as Winterthur and the Delaware Museum of Natural History. The Brandywine Conservancy founded by family member George Alexis Weymouth owns around of land in Pennsylvania and Delaware, and owns permanent conservation easements on an additional . In 2013, Lammot du Pont Copeland's Mt. Cuba Center contributed over $20 million to purchase land for donation to the federal government to form the First State National Historical Park.\n\nBeginning with William du Pont, Jr. and his sister, Marion duPont Scott, many members of the Du Pont family have been involved in the breeding and racing of thoroughbred racehorses, as well as establishing racehorse venues and training tracks.\n\nThe stylings “Dupont”, “DuPont”, du Pont\" and \"Du Pont\" for the family name have both been widely used in published writings. In many publications, the styling is \"du Pont\" when quoting an individual's full name and \"Du Pont\" when speaking of the family as a whole, although some individual Du Ponts have chosen to style it differently, such as Samuel Francis Du Pont. The name of the chemical company founded by the family is today styled solid as \"DuPont\" in the short form (but the long form is styled as E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company); the stylings \"Du Pont\" and \"DuPont\" for the company's short name coexisted in the 20th century, but the latter is now consistently used in the company's branding. The solid styling \"duPont\" is less common, but the Nemours Alfred I. duPont Hospital for Children uses it, as does the duPont Registry. William S. Dutton's mid-20th-century history of the family business uses \"Du Pont\" both for the family mentioned generally and for the company's short name but \"du Pont\" in an individual's full name (for example, \"Éleuthère Irénée du Pont\", \"Henry du Pont\", \"Alfred Victor du Pont\", \"Lammot du Pont\"); for example, \"when he [Lammot du Pont] went to General Henry du Pont with the proposal that the Du Ponts manufacture dynamite, he was answered by a blunt and unqualified 'No!'\") The first page of Dutton's monograph contains the following footnote about the surname's styling (the mention of \"Samuel Dupont\" here refers to the 18th-century Parisian watchmaker, not to his 19th-century descendant): \"Samuel Dupont used this form of the family name [i.e., Dupont], but beginning in 1763 his son signed himself 'Du Pont.' Later, he added 'de Nemours' to his name to prevent confusion with two other Duponts in the French Chamber of Deputies. Du Pont, in English, is pronounced with the accent on the second syllable. In French, neither syllable is accented.\" \n\nFrench orthographic tradition for the styling of \"de\" (or its inflected forms) as a surname particle, in either nobiliary or non-nobiliary form, is discussed at \"Nobiliary particle \n§ France\". In non-nobiliary form, the prevalent French styling of the name is \"\", and thus the choice by Pierre Samuel du Pont de Nemours to begin styling himself so during the monarchical era hints at social ambition. But the influence of French orthography and prerevolutionary class structure on how English orthography styles surnames today is outweighed by how families and individuals so named style themselves.\n\nBelow is an alphabetical listing of selected notable members of the family. It is followed by a listing of their families in order of descent. The listing is intended only to illustrate the relationships among the notable members of the family and is not a complete genealogy. The only family groupings and lines of descent shown are those necessary to illustrate relationships for notable members of the family. By 1942 there were believed to be 705 direct descendants of Pierre Samuel du Pont de Nemours, and in the 21st century there are well more than 2,000 living members of the family.\n\nThe following list is not a complete genealogy, but is ordered by descent to show the familial relationships between members of the du Pont family throughout history.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54388844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54388844", "title": "Embassy of the State of Palestine in Hungary", "text": "Embassy of the State of Palestine in Hungary\n\nThe Embassy of the State of Palestine in Hungary () is the diplomatic mission of the Palestine in Hungary. It is located in Budapest.\n\n"}
{"id": "43254840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43254840", "title": "Guy Le Strange", "text": "Guy Le Strange\n\nGuy Le Strange (24 July 1854 – 24 December 1933; surname: Le Strange) was a scholar in Persian, Arabic, and Spanish, specially notable for his work in the field of the historical geography of the pre-modern Middle Eastern and Eastern Islamic lands and his editing of Persian geographical texts.\n\nHe was born in Brussels, Belgium, the youngest child of Henry L'Estrange Styleman Le Strange of Hunstanton, Norfolk, and died in Cambridge.\n\n"}
{"id": "7873885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7873885", "title": "History by period", "text": "History by period\n\nThis history by period summarizes significant eras in the history of the world, from the ancient world to the present day.\n\nAncient history refers to the time period in which scientists have found the earliest remains of human activity, approximately 60,000 BC. It ends with the fall of several significant empires, such as the Western Roman Empire in the Mediterranean, the Han Dynasty in China, and the Gupta Empire in India, collectively around 650 AD.\n\nThe Bronze Age is the time period in which humans around the world began to use bronze as a major metal in tools. It is generally accepted as starting around 3600 BC and ending with the advent of iron in 1000 BC.\n\nThe Iron Age is often called Antiquity or the Classical Era, but these periods more commonly refer to only one region. It begins around 1000 BC with the widespread use of iron in tools. It is often accepted to end at approximately 650 AD, with the fall of the aforementioned major civilizations.\n\nNote that BC and BCE refer to the same time period. BCE is an abbreviation for Before Common Era, and BC for Before Christ. AD is Anno Domini, and CE is Common Era. This is done in order to standardize time periods across the world (ISO 8601).\n\nThe Postclassical Era, also referred to as the Medieval period or, for Europe, the Middle Ages, begins around 500 CE after the fall of major civilizations, covering the advent of Islam. The period ends around 1450–1500, with events like the rise of moveable-type printing in Europe, the voyages of Christopher Columbus, and the Ottoman Empire's conquest of Constantinople.\n\n\nThe Modern Period covers human history from the creation of a more global network (i.e. the discovery of the Americas by Europeans) to present day.\n\nThe Early Modern Period is the first third of the Modern Period and is often used with the parent categorization. It starts with the invention of the printing press, covering the voyage of Christopher Columbus in 1492 and, more generally, the establishment of a more global network. It ends in 1750 with the beginning of British industrialization.\n\nThe Age of Revolution is a less commonly used period, but appropriately covers the time between the early modern and contemporary. It begins around 1750 with European industrialization and is marked by several political revolutions. It ends around 1945, with the relative advancement of industrialization in Europe, the United States, Japan, and Russia, and the beginning of World War II.\n\n\nThe Contemporary Period generally covers history still in living memory, approximately 100 years behind the current year. However, for all intents and purposes, the period will be used here as spanning from the second world war in 1945 to present day, as it is considered separate from the past eras and the newest stage of world history.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4251309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4251309", "title": "In Patagonia", "text": "In Patagonia\n\nIn Patagonia is an English travel book by Bruce Chatwin, published in 1977.\n\nDuring the Second World War Chatwin and his mother stayed at the home of his paternal grandparents, who had a curiosity cabinet that fascinated him. Among the items it contained was a \"piece of brontosaurus\" (actually a mylodon, a giant sloth), which had been sent to Chatwin's grandmother by her cousin Charles Amherst Milward. \n\nIn a cave in Chilean Patagonia, Milward had discovered the remains of a giant sloth, which he later sold to the British Museum. He sent his cousin a piece of the animal's skin, and members of the family mistakenly referred to it as a \"piece of brontosaurus.\" The skin was later lost but it inspired Chatwin decades later to visit Patagonia.\n\nIn 1972, Chatwin was hired by the \"Sunday Times Magazine\" as an adviser on art and architecture. In 1972, he interviewed the 93-year-old architect and designer Eileen Gray in her Paris salon, where he noticed a map of the area of South America called Patagonia which she had painted. \"I've always wanted to go there,\" Bruce told her. \"So have I,\" she replied, \"go there for me.\" \n\nTwo years later, in November 1974, Chatwin flew out to Lima in Peru and reached Patagonia a month later. He would later claim that he sent a telegram to his editor merely stating: \"Have gone to Patagonia.\" Actually he sent a letter: \"I am doing a story there for myself, something I have always wanted to write up.\" He spent six months in the area, travelling around gathering stories of people who came from elsewhere and settled there. He used his quest for his own \"piece of brontosaurus\" (the one from his grandparents' cabinet had been thrown away years earlier) to frame the story of his trip. \n\nChatwin described \"In Patagonia\" as \"the narrative of an actual journey and a symbolic one ... It is supposed to fall into the category or be a spoof of Wonder Voyage: the narrator goes to a far country in search of a strange animal: on his way he lands in strange situations, people or other books tell him strange stories which add up to form a message.\"\n\nThe book is highly experimental in the way that it is structured. It is divided into a total of 97 separate sections, some of which are as short as a lone paragraph. In a sense this construction with its frequent use of digression, rather than a standard linear structure, mirrors one of the underlying themes of the work as a whole: a meditation upon wandering and nomadism in human life. This is accentuated by the fact that many of the narratives of the people that Chatwin meets in the work involve discussions of the nomadic life.\n\nThis work established Chatwin's reputation as a travel writer. One of his biographers, Nicholas Murray, called \"In Patagonia\" \"one of the most strikingly original postwar English travel books\" and said that it revitalised the genre of travel writing.\n\n\"The New York Times\" described it as a \"little masterpiece of travel, history, and adventure.\" Some reviewers compared it with classics of travel literature such as \"Travels\" by Sir John Mandeville, \"Eothen\" by Alexander Kinglake and \"The Road to Oxiana\" by Robert Byron.\n\nHowever, residents in the region contradicted the account of events depicted in Chatwin's book. It was the first time in his career, but not the last, that conversations and characters which Chatwin presented as fact were later alleged to be fiction.\n\n\"In Patagonia\" contains 15 black and white photographs by Chatwin. According to Susannah Clapp, who edited the book, \"Rebecca West amused Chatwin by telling him that these were so good they rendered superfluous the entire text of the book.\"\n\nFor \"In Patagonia\" Chatwin received the Hawthornden Prize and the E. M. Forster Award from the American Academy of Arts and Letters.\n\n"}
{"id": "4627713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4627713", "title": "Integral nationalism", "text": "Integral nationalism\n\nIntegral nationalism () is a type of nationalism originated in 19th-century France and opposed to Risorgimento nationalism.\n\nWhereas risorgimento nationalism applies to a nation seeking to establish a liberal state (for example the Risorgimento in Italy and similar movements in Greece, Germany, Poland, Japan in the 19th century or civic nationalism, e.g., American nationalism), integral nationalism results after a nation has achieved independence and has already established a state. Nazi Germany and Fascist Italy, according to Alter and Brown, were examples of integral nationalism. Some of the qualities that characterise integral nationalism are anti-individualism, statism, radical extremism, and aggressive expansionist militarism. Integral states are totalitarian and the government or state dominates all aspects of society.\n\nIntegral nationalism generally tends to arise in states (such as colonies or countries that do not have sovereignty) where a strong military ethos has become entrenched through a struggle for independence, resulting in the belief that a strong military is required to ensure the security and viability of the new state once the state attains independence. Also, the success of such a liberation struggle results in feelings of national superiority that may lead to extreme nationalism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53468125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53468125", "title": "International Journal of Transitional Justice", "text": "International Journal of Transitional Justice\n\nInternational Journal of Transitional Justice is an interdisciplinary peer-reviewed academic journal published triannually by Oxford University Press to provide a forum for transitional justice as an academic discipline in its own right. It was established in 2007 and the editors-in-chief are M. Brinton Lykes (Boston College) and Hugo van der Merwe (Centre for the Study of Violence and Reconciliation, South Africa).\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in:\n\nAccording to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2015 impact factor of 1.250, ranking it 49th out of 163 journals in the category \"Political Science\", 25th out of 86 journals in the category \"International Relations\" and 45th out of 147 journals in the category \"Law\".\n\n"}
{"id": "566821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=566821", "title": "Islamic terrorism", "text": "Islamic terrorism\n\nIslamic terrorism, Islamist terrorism or radical Islamic terrorism is defined as any terrorist act, set of acts or campaign committed by groups or individuals who profess Islamic or Islamist motivations or goals. Islamic terrorists justify their violent tactics through the interpretation of Quran and Hadith according to their own goals and intentions. The idea of Islamic supremacy is encapsulated in the formula, \"Islam is exalted and nothing is exalted above it.\"\n\nThe highest numbers of incidents and fatalities caused by Islamic terrorism occur in Iraq, Afghanistan, Nigeria, Pakistan and Syria. In 2015 four Islamic extremist groups were responsible for 74% of all deaths from terrorism: ISIS, Boko Haram, the Taliban and Al-Qaeda, according to the Global Terrorism Index 2016. In recent decades, such incidents have occurred on a global scale, affecting not only Muslim-majority states in Africa and Asia, but also several other countries, including those within the European Union, Russia, Australia, Canada, Israel, India, the United Kingdom and the United States. Such attacks have targeted Muslims and non-Muslims. In a number of the worst-affected Muslim-majority regions, these terrorists have been met by armed, independent resistance groups, state actors and their proxies, and elsewhere by condemnation coming from prominent Islamic figures.\n\nThe literal use of the phrase \"Islamic terrorism\" is disputed. Such use in Western political speech has variously been called \"counter-productive\", \"highly politicized, intellectually contestable\" and \"damaging to community relations\".\n\nHowever, others have referred to the refusal to use the term as an act of \"self-deception\", \"full-blown censorship\" and \"intellectual dishonesty\".\n\nSome Muslim commentators assert that extremism within Islam goes back to the 7th century to the Kharijites. From their essentially political position, they developed extreme doctrines that set them apart from both mainstream Sunni and Shi'a Muslims. The Kharijites were particularly noted for adopting a radical approach of \"takfir\", whereby they declared other Muslims to be unbelievers and therefore deemed them worthy of death. After failed post-colonial attempts at state formation and the creation of Israel, a series of Marxist and anti-Western transformations and movements swept throughout the Arab and Islamic world. The growth of these nationalist and revolutionary movements, along with their views that terrorism could be effective in reaching their political goals, generated the first phase of modern international terrorism. In the late 1960s, Palestinian secular movements such as Al Fatah and the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine (PFLP) began to target civilians outside the immediate arena of conflict. Following Israel's 1967 defeat of Arab forces, Palestinian leaders began to see that the Arab world was unable to militarily confront Israel. During the same time, lessons drawn from revolutionary movements in Latin America, North Africa, Southeast Asia as well as during the Jewish struggle against Britain in Palestine, saw the Palestinians turn away from classic guerrilla, a typically rural-based, warfare toward urban terrorism. The year 1979 was a turning point in international terrorism. Throughout the Arab world and the West, the Iranian Islamic revolution ignited fears of a wave of revolutionary Shia Islam. Meanwhile, the Soviet–Afghan War and the subsequent anti-Soviet mujahedin war, lasting from 1979 to 1989, started the rise and expansion of terrorist groups. Since their beginning in 1994, the Pakistani-supported Taliban militia in Afghanistan has gained several characteristics traditionally associated with state-sponsors of terrorism, providing logistical support, travel documentation, and training facilities. Since 1989 the increasing willingness of religious extremists to strike targets outside immediate country or regional areas highlights the global nature of contemporary terrorism. The 1993 bombing of the World Trade Center, and the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks on the World Trade Center and Pentagon, are representative of this trend.\n\nThe Global Terrorism Index report of 2015 illuminate the rise in death due to terrorism following the September 11, 2001 attack in this graphic:\n\nSince World War II, Muslim immigrants have emigrated to western countries in large numbers because fellow Muslim countries that are well-off economically and socially do not accept them. Out of the 57 Muslim majority countries, only two nations (Turkey and Malaysia) offer a formal path for immigrants to become naturalized citizens, regardless of birthplace, religious beliefs, marital status or ethnic origin. Even the oil-rich Gulf states do not grant citizenship to immigrants, regardless of how long they have resided in those countries. To make matters more difficult, Gulf states have stringent laws which explicitly state that an immigrant or expat can become a citizen only if his/her father was a citizen or, in some cases, if an expat woman marries an Arab national. These laws make it almost impossible for expats (both Muslim and non-Muslim) to gain citizenship.\n\nIn 2014, the self-appointed Caliph Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, the leader of the unrecognised Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant, took advantage of this resentment among some Muslims living in other Arab states and urged those Muslims to emigrate to the new Islamic state. ISIS, also known as \"The Islamic State\", promised all Muslim immigrants \"citizenship\" immediately upon arrival. They even went as far as issuing \"Caliphate Passports\" to the newly arrived immigrants.\n\nThe Muslim world has been afflicted with economic stagnation for many centuries. In 2011, U.S. President Barack Obama stated that apart from crude oil, the exports of the entire Greater Middle East with its 400 million population roughly equals that of Switzerland. It has also been estimated that the exports of Finland, a European country of only five million, exceeded those of the entire 370 million-strong Arab world, excluding oil and natural gas. This economic stagnation is argued by historian David Fromkin in his work A Peace to End All Peace to have commenced with the demise of the Ottoman Empire in 1924, with trade networks being disrupted and societies torn apart with the creation of new nation states. Although the Ottoman Empire was referred to as the Sick man of Europe, the parts of the Middle East under Ottoman rule still had a diverse and steady growing economy with more general prosperity.\n\nIslamist-based fundamentalist terrorism against Western nations and the U.S. in particular, has numerous motivations and takes place the larger context of a complex and tense relationship between the 'West' and the Arab and Muslim 'world,' which is highlighted in the previous section on motivations and Islamic terrorism. Identity-based theoretical frameworks, including theories of social identity, social categorization theory, and psychodynamics are used to explain the reasons terrorism occurs.\n\nSocial identity is explained by Karina Korostelina as a \"feeling of belonging to a social group, as a strong connection with social category, and as an important part of our mind that affects our social perceptions and behavior\" This definition can be applied to the case of Osama bin Laden, who, according to this theory, had a highly salient perception of his social identity as a Muslim, a strong connection to the social category of the Muslim Ummah or 'community,' which affect his social perceptions and behaviors. Bin Laden's ideology and interpretation of Islam led to the creation of al-Qaeda in response to perceived threats against the Muslim community by the Soviet Union, the U.S. in particular due to its troop presence in Saudi Arabia, and American support for Israel. The Islamic terrorist group al-Qaeda has a group identity, which includes \"shared experiences, attitudes, beliefs, and interests of in-group members\", and is \"described through the achievement of a collective aim for which this group has been created\", which in this case is to achieve \"a complete break from the foreign influences in Muslim countries, and the creation of a new Islamic caliphate\".\n\nSocial categorization theory has been discussed as a three-stage process of identification, where \"individuals define themselves as members of a social group, learn the stereotypes and norms of the group, and group categories influence the perception and understanding of all situations in a particular context\" This definition can be applied to the US-led war on terror, in which conflict features such as the phenomenon of Anti-Americanism and the phenomenon of non-Arab countries like Iran and Afghanistan lending support to Islamist-based terrorism by funding or harboring terrorist groups such as Hezbollah and al-Qaeda against Western nations, particularly Israel and the United States are, according to social categorization theory, influenced by a three-stage process of identification. In this three-stage process of identification, the Arab and Muslim world(s) are the social group(s), in which their members learn stereotypes and norms which categorize their social group vis-à-vis the West. This social categorization process creates feelings of high-level in-group support and allegiance among Arabs and Muslims and the particular context within which members of the Arab and Muslim world(s) social group(s) understand all situations that involve the West. Social categorization theory as a framework for analysis indicates causal relationships between group identification processes and features of conflict situations.\n\nOne ideology that plays a role in terrorism by using the name of Islam, is Wahabism. Wahabism and its allies including Salafism (Salafi jihadism) supports war against any one and every one who is not like them. The Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant, al-Qaeda, Al-Shabaab (militant group), Boko Haram, Indonesian Mujahedeen Council, Taliban, Sipah Sahaba, Lashkar-e-Jhangvi and Hizbul Mujahideen follow Wahabi or Salafi ideology which is commonly opposed by other Muslims. Non-Muslims, Sufis, and Shias are attacked by hard-core Wahhabis, Deobandis, and jamaatis in the same way that socialists and other leftist proletarians were assaulted by Mussolini's bandits, Jews and others by the Nazis, and \"bourgeois\", \"kulak\", intellectual, Jewish, \"Menshevik\", and \"Trotskyist\" dissenters were assaulted by Stalinists. In India, Wahabism was spread in the name of Deobandi movement.\n\nTransnational Islamist ideology, specifically of the militant Islamists, assert that Western policies and society are actively anti-Islamic, or as it is sometimes described, waging a \"war against Islam\". Islamists often identify what they see as a historical struggle between Christianity and Islam, dating back as far as the Crusades, among other historical conflicts between practitioners of the two respective religions. Osama bin Laden, for example, almost invariably described his enemies as aggressive and his call for action against them as defensive. Defensive jihad differs from offensive jihad by being \"fard al-ayn\", or a personal obligation of all Muslims, rather than \"fard al-kifaya\", a communal obligation, that is, some Muslims may perform it but it is not required of others. Hence, framing a fight as defensive has the advantage of both appearing to be a victim rather than appearing to be an aggressor, and giving the struggle the very highest religious priority for all good Muslims.\n\nMany of the violent terrorist groups use the name of jihad to fight against certain Western nations and Israel. An example is bin Laden's al-Qaeda, which is also known as \"International Islamic Front for Jihad Against the Jews and Crusaders\". Most militant Islamists oppose Israel's policies, and they often oppose its very existence.\n\nAccording to U.S. Army Colonel Dale C. Eikmeier, \"ideology\", rather than any individual or group, is the \"center of gravity\" of al-Qaeda and related groups, and that ideology is a \"collection of violent Islamic thought called Qutbism\". He summarizes the tenets of Qutbism as being:\n\nThe historic rivalry between Hindus and Muslims in the Indian subcontinent has also often been the primary motive behind some of the most deadly terrorist attacks in India. According to a U.S. State Department report, India topped the list of countries most affected by Islamic terrorism.\n\nIn addition, Islamist militants, scholars, and leaders opposed Western society for what they see as immoral secularism. Islamists have claimed that such unrestricted free speech has led to the proliferation of pornography, immorality, secularism, homosexuality, feminism, and many other ideas that Islamists often oppose. Although bin Laden almost always emphasized the alleged oppression of Muslims by America and Jews when talking about them in his messages, in his \"Letter to America\", he answered the question, \"What are we calling you to, and what do we want from you?\" with\n\nWe call you to be a people of manners, principles, honour, and purity; to reject the immoral acts of fornication, homosexuality, intoxicants, gambling's, and trading with interest (...) You separate religion from your policies, (...) You are the nation that permits Usury, which has been forbidden by all the religions (...) You are a nation that permits the production, trading and usage of intoxicants (...) You are a nation that permits acts of immorality (...) You are a nation that permits gambling in its all forms. (...) You use women to serve passengers, visitors, and strangers to increase your profit margins. You then rant that you support the liberation of women.\n\nGiven their perceived piety, \"The Times\" noted the irony when an investigation discovered that Jihadists were seeking anonymity through some of the same networks used to distribute child pornography. The paper praised the raid's ability to \"improve understanding of the mindsets of both types of criminals\". Similarly, Reuters reported that pornography was found among the materials seized from Osama bin Laden's Abbottabad compound that was raided by U.S. Navy SEALs.\n\nIn 2006, Britain's then head of MI5 Eliza Manningham-Buller said of Al-Qaeda that it \"has developed an ideology which claims that Islam is under attack, and needs to be defended\". \"This,\" she said \"is a powerful narrative that weaves together conflicts from across the globe, presenting the West's response to varied and complex issues, from long-standing disputes such as Israel/Palestine and Kashmir to more recent events as evidence of an across-the-board determination to undermine and humiliate Islam worldwide.\" She said that the video wills of British suicide bombers made it clear that they were motivated by perceived worldwide and long-standing injustices against Muslims; an extreme and minority interpretation of Islam promoted by some preachers and people of influence; their interpretation as anti-Muslim of UK foreign policy, in particular the UK's involvement in Iraq and Afghanistan.\" She also cautioned how difficult it was to gain a proper perspective, saying that although there are more important dangers we face daily without feeling so threatened by them, such as climate change and road deaths, and though terrorist deaths were few, the intelligence services had prevented some potentially large threats and that vigilance was needed.\n\nColonel Eikmeier points out the \"questionable religious credentials\" of many Islamist theorists, or \"Qutbists\", which can be a \"means to discredit them and their message\":\n\nWith the exception of Abul Ala Maududi and Abdullah Yusuf Azzam, none of Qutbism's main theoreticians trained at Islam's recognized centers of learning. Although a devout Muslim, Hassan al-Banna was a teacher and community activist. Sayyid Qutb was a literary critic. Mohammed Abdul-Salam Farag was an electrician. Ayman al-Zawahiri is a physician. Osama bin Laden trained to be a businessman.\n\nDaniel Benjamin and Steven Simon, in their book, \"The Age of Sacred Terror\", argue that Islamic terrorist attacks are purely religious. They are seen as \"a sacrament ... intended to restore to the universe a moral order that had been corrupted by the enemies of Islam.\" It is neither political or strategic but an \"act of redemption\" meant to \"humiliate and slaughter those who defied the hegemony of God\".\n\nOne of the Kouachi brothers responsible for the \"Charlie Hebdo\" shooting called a French journalist, saying, \"We are the defenders of Prophet Mohammed.\"\n\nTwo studies of the background of Muslim terrorists in Europe—one of the UK and one of France—found little connection between religious piety and terrorism. According to a \"restricted\" report of hundreds of case studies by the UK domestic counter-intelligence agency MI5,\n\n[f]ar from being religious zealots, a large number of those involved in terrorism do not practise their faith regularly. Many lack religious literacy and could actually be regarded as religious novices. Very few have been brought up in strongly religious households, and there is a higher than average proportion of converts. Some are involved in drug-taking, drinking alcohol and visiting prostitutes. MI5 says there is evidence that a well-established religious identity actually protects against violent radicalisation.\n\nA 2015 \"general portrait\" by Olivier Roy (see above) of \"the conditions and circumstances\" under which people living in France become \"Islamic radicals\" (terrorists or would-be terrorists) found radicalisation was not an \"uprising of a Muslim community that is victim to poverty and racism: only young people join, including converts\".\n\nRoy believes terrorism/radicalism is \"expressed in religious terms\" because\n\n\nAccording to Indonesian Islamic leader Yahya Cholil Staquf in a 2017 \"Time\" interview, according to classical Islamic tradition, the relationship between Muslims and Non-Muslims is one of segregation and enmity. In his view extremism and terrorism are linked with orthodox Islam and that radical Islamic movements are nothing new. He also added that Western politicians should stop pretending that extremism is not linked to Islam.\n\nDonald Holbrook, a Research Fellow at the Centre for the Study of Terrorism and Political Violence, analyzes a sample of 30 works by jihadist propagandists and finds several passages of the Quran exploited and distorted to suit the objectives of violent jihad. An-Nisa (4:74–75) is quoted most frequently; other popular passages are At-Taubah (9:13–15, 38–39, 111) and Al-Baqarah (2:190–191, 216). Consider Surah 9:5:\n\nHolbrook notes they cherry-picked the first part \"slay the idolaters\" but fail to quote and discuss limiting factors at the end of the ayat, \"but if they repent …\" This, Holbrook argues, is how violent jihadists are \"shamelessly selective in order to serve their propaganda objectives.\" Peter Bergen notes that bin Laden cited this verse in 1998 when making a formal declaration of war.\n\nMichael Sells and Jane I. Smith (a Professor of Islamic Studies) write that barring some extremists like al-Qaeda, most Muslims do not interpret Qur'anic verses as promoting warfare today but rather as reflecting historically dated contexts. According to Sells, \"[Most Muslims] no more expect to apply [the verses at issue] to their contemporary non-Muslim friends and neighbors than most Christians and Jews consider themselves commanded by God, like the Biblical Joshua, to exterminate the infidels.\" In his book \"\", Iranian-American academic Reza Aslan argues that there is an internal battle currently taking place within Islam between individualistic reform ideals and the traditional authority of Muslim clerics similar to that of the 16th-century reformation in Christianity, which was as old as Islam currently is at that period. He writes, \"the notion that historical context should play no role in the interpretation of the Koran—that what applied to Muhammad's community applies to all Muslim communities for all time—is simply an untenable position in every sense.\"\nSupporters of bin Laden have also pointed to reports according to which the Islamic prophet Muhammad attacked towns at night or with catapults, and argued that he must have condoned incidental harm to noncombatants, since it would have been impossible to distinguish them from combatants during such attacks. These arguments were not widely accepted by Muslims.\n\nThe Pakistani theologian Javed Ahmad Ghamidi blames Muslim madrasas that indoctrinate children with Islamic supremacist views, such as that Muslims are legally superior to unbelievers (particularly former Muslims), and that jihad will eventually bring about a single caliphate to rule the world.\n\nThe Princeton University Middle Eastern scholar Bernard Lewis states that classical Islamic jurisprudence does not allow terrorism, and the \"classical jurists of Islam never remotely considered [jihad] the kind of unprovoked, unannounced mass slaughter of uninvolved civil populations\". In 2001, Professor Lewis noted:\n\nBeing a religious obligation, jihad is elaborately regulated in sharia law, which discusses in minute detail such matters as the opening, conduct, interruption and cessation of hostilities, the treatment of prisoners and noncombatants, the use of weapons, etc... Similarly, the laws of Jihad categorically preclude wanton and indiscriminate slaughter. The warriors in the holy war are urged not to harm non-combatants, women and children, \"unless they attack you first\". ... A point on which they insist is the need for a clear declaration of war before beginning hostilities, and for proper warning before resuming hostilities after a truce. What the classical jurists of Islam never remotely considered is the kind of unprovoked, unannounced mass slaughter of uninvolved civil populations that we saw in New York two weeks ago. For this there is no precedent and no authority in Islam.\n\nWhile techniques of war are restricted by classical Islamic jurisprudence, the scope is not. Lewis states that Jihad is an unlimited offensive to bring the whole world under Islamic rule and law. Classical Islamic jurisprudence imposes, without limit of time or space, the duty to subjugate non-Muslims, according to Lewis. Wael Hallaq writes that in the modern era the notion of jihad has lost its jurisprudential relevance and instead gave rise to an ideological and political discourse. While modernists view jihad as defensive and compatible with modern standards of warfare, some Islamists go beyond the classical theory to insist that the purpose of jihad is the fight against oppressive regimes and conversion of non-Muslims to Islam.\n\nScott Atran has found the greatest predictors of suicide bombings to be not religion but group dynamics:\nWhile personal humiliation does not turn out to be a motivation for those attempting to kill civilians, the perception that others with whom one feels a common bond are being humiliated can be a powerful driver for action. \"Small-group dynamics involving friends and family that form the diaspora cell of brotherhood and camaraderie on which the rising tide of martyrdom actions is based\". Terrorists, according to Atran, are social beings influenced by social connections and values. Rather than dying \"for a cause\", they might be said to have died \"for each other\". Simon Cottee in the \"New York Times\" suggested that sexual frustration is a major motivating factor in Islamist suicide bombing.\n\nAccording to a graph by U.S. State Department, terrorist attacks have escalated worldwide since the invasions of Afghanistan and Iraq. Dame Eliza Manningham Buller, the former head of MI5, told the Iraq inquiry, the security services warned Tony Blair launching the War on Terror would increase the threat of terrorism. Robert Pape has argued that at least terrorists utilizing suicide attacks—a particularly effective form of terrorist attack—are driven not by Islamism but by \"a clear strategic objective: to compel modern democracies to withdraw military forces from the territory that the terrorists view as their homeland\". However, Martin Kramer, who debated Pape on origins of suicide bombing, stated that the motivation for suicide attacks is not just strategic logic but also an interpretation of Islam to provide a moral logic. For example, Hezbollah initiated suicide bombings after a complex reworking of the concept of martyrdom. Kramer explains that the Israeli occupation of the South Lebanon Security Zone raised the temperature necessary for this reinterpretation of Islam, but occupation alone would not have been sufficient for suicide terrorism. \"The only way to apply a brake to suicide terrorism,\" Kramer argues, \"is to undermine its moral logic, by encouraging Muslims to see its incompatibility with their own values.\"\n\nFormer CIA analyst Michael Scheuer argues that terrorist attacks (specifically al-Qaeda attacks on targets in the United States) are \"not\" motivated by a religiously inspired hatred of American culture or religion, but by the belief that U.S. foreign policy has oppressed, killed, or otherwise harmed Muslims in the Middle East, condensed in the phrase \"They hate us for what we do, not who we are.\" U.S. foreign policy actions Scheuer believes are fueling Islamic terror include: the US–led intervention in Afghanistan and invasion of Iraq; Israel–United States relations, namely, financial, military, and political support for Israel; U.S. support for \"apostate\" police states in Muslim nations such as Egypt, Algeria, Morocco, and Kuwait; U.S. support for the creation of an independent East Timor from territory previously held by Muslim Indonesia; perceived U.S. approval or support of actions against Muslim insurgents in India, the Philippines, Chechnya, and Palestine.\n\nMaajid Nawaz, in a debate with Mehdi Hasan, countered Scheuer's contention:\n\na tiny minority, from within the non-Iraqi British Muslim communities, reacted with violence on 7 July 2005. To interpret this simply as a \"nationalist struggle\" to remove occupation ignores the blatantly obvious fact that, first, the terrorists were not Iraqis, they were British-Pakistanis (though British Iraqis have lived here for a long time); second, the vast majority of the Stop the War protesters were non-Muslims, yet only a handful from among a minority of Muslims reacted to the war with terrorism. Even though occupation may have caused agitation among the 7 July bombers, these northern-born lads with thick Yorkshire accents confessed in their suicide tapes to considering themselves soldiers with a mission to kill our people (Britons) on behalf of their people (Iraqis). The prerequisite to such a disavowal of one's country of birth is a recalibration of identity; this is the undeniable role of ideological narratives.\n\nAccording to Scott Atran, a NATO researcher studying suicide terrorism, the available evidence contradicts a number of simplistic explanations for the motivations of terrorists, including mental instability, poverty, and feelings of humiliation.\n\nForensic psychiatrist and former foreign service officer Marc Sageman made an \"intensive study of biographical data on 172 participants in the jihad\", in his book \"Understanding Terror Networks\". He concluded social networks, the \"tight bonds of family and friendship\", rather than emotional and behavioral disorders of \"poverty, trauma, madness, [or] ignorance\", inspired alienated young Muslims to join the jihad and kill.\n\nAuthor Lawrence Wright described the characteristic of \"displacement\" of members of the most famous Islamic terrorist group, al-Qaeda:\n\nWhat the recruits tended to have in common—besides their urbanity, their cosmopolitan backgrounds, their education, their facility with languages, and their computer skills—was displacement. Most who joined the jihad did so in a country other than the one in which they were reared. They were Algerians living in expatriate enclaves in France, Moroccans in Spain, or Yemenis in Saudi Arabia. Despite their accomplishments, they had little standing in the host societies where they lived.\n\nScholar Olivier Roy describes the background of the hundreds of \"global\" (as opposed to local) terrorists who were incarcerated or killed and for whom authorities have records, as being surprising for their Westernized background; for the lack of Palestinians, Iraqis, Afghans \"coming to avenge what is going on in their country\"; their lack of religiosity before being \"born again\" in a foreign country; the high percentage of converts to Islam among them; their \"de-territorialized backgrounds\"—\"For instance, they may be born in a country, then educated in another country, then go to fight in a third country and take refuge in a fourth country\"; their nontraditional belief that jihad is permanent, global, and \"not linked with a specific territory.\"\n\nThis profile differs from that found among recent local (as opposed to global) Islamist suicide bombers in Afghanistan, according to a 2007 study of 110 suicide bombers by Afghan pathologist Dr. Yusef Yadgari. Yadgari found that 80% of the attackers studied had some kind of physical or mental disability. The bombers were also \"not celebrated like their counterparts in other Muslim nations. Afghan bombers are not featured on posters or in videos as martyrs.\" Daniel Byman, a Middle East expert at the Brookings Institution, and Christine Fair, an assistant professor in peace and security studies at Georgetown University, say that many of the Islamic terrorists are foolish and untrained, perhaps even untrainable.\n\nStudying 300 cases of people charged with jihadist terrorism in the United States since September 11, 2001, author Peter Bergen found the perpetrators were \"generally motivated by a mix of factors\", including \"militant Islamist ideology; dislike of American foreign policy in the Muslim world; a need to attach themselves to an ideology or organization that gave them a sense of purpose\"; and a \"cognitive opening\" to militant Islam that often was \"precipitated by personal disappointment, like the death of a parent\".\n\nMuslim popular opinion on the subject of attacks on civilians by Islamist groups varies. Fred Halliday, a British academic specialist on the Middle East, argues that most Muslims consider these acts to be egregious violations of Islam's laws. Muslims living in the West denounce the September 11th attacks against United States, while Hezbollah contends that their rocket attacks against Israeli targets are defensive Jihad by a legitimate resistance movement rather than terrorism.\n\nCharles Kurzman and other authors have collected statements by prominent Muslim figures and organizations condemning terrorism.\n\nAlthough Islamic terrorism is commonly associated with the Salafis (or \"Wahhabis\"), the scholars of the group have constantly attributed this association to ignorance, misunderstanding and sometimes insincere research and deliberate misleading by rival groups. Following the September 11 attacks, Abdul-Azeez ibn Abdullaah Aal ash-Shaikh, the Grand Mufti of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, made an official statement that \"the Islamic Sharee'ah (legislation) does not sanction\" such actions. A Salafi \"Committee of Major Scholars\" in Saudi Arabia has declared that \"Islamic\" terrorism, such as the May 2003 bombing in Riyadh, are in violation of Sharia law and aiding the enemies of Islam.\n\nTimothy Winter wrote that the proclamations of bin Laden and Ayman al-Zawahiri \"ignore 14 centuries of Muslim scholarship\", and that if they \"followed the norms of their religion, they would have had to acknowledge that no school of mainstream Islam allows the targeting of civilians.\"\n\nFethullah Gülen, a prominent Turkish Islamic scholar, has claimed (c.f. No True Scotsman) that \"a real Muslim\", who understood Islam in every aspect, could not be a terrorist. There are many other people with similar points of view such as Ahmet Akgunduz, Harun Yahya and Muhammad Tahir-ul-Qadri. Huston Smith, an author on comparative religion, argued that extremists have hijacked Islam, just as has occurred periodically in Christianity, Hinduism and other religions throughout history. He added that the real problem is that extremists do not know their own faith.\n\nAli Gomaa, former Grand Mufti of Egypt, stated not only for the Islam but in general: \"Terrorism cannot be born of religion. Terrorism is the product of corrupt minds, hardened hearts, and arrogant egos, and corruption, destruction, and arrogance are unknown to the heart attached to the divine.\"\n\nIn reference to suicide attacks, Hannah Stuart notes there is a \"significant debate among contemporary clerics over which circumstance permit such attacks.\" Qatar-based theologian, Yusuf al-Qaradawi, criticized the 9/11 attacks but previously justified suicide bombings in Israel on the grounds of necessity and justified such attacks in 2004 against American military and civilian personnel in Iraq. According to Stuart, 61 contemporary Islamic leaders have issued fatawa permitting suicide attacks, 32 with respect to Israel. Stuart points out that all of these contemporary rulings are contrary to classical Islamic jurisprudence.\n\nA 600-page legal opinion (\"fatwa\") by Muhammad Tahir-ul-Qadri condemned suicide bombings and other forms of terrorism as \"kufr\" (unbelief), stating that it \"has no place in Islamic teaching and no justification can be provided for it, or any kind of excuses or ifs or buts.\" Iranian Ayatollah Ozma Seyyed Yousef Sanei has preached against suicide attacks and stated in an interview: \"Terror in Islam, and especially Shiite, is forbidden.\"\n\nA group of Pakistani clerics of Jamaat Ahl-e-Sunnah (Barelvi movement) who were gathered for a convention denounced suicide attacks and beheadings as un-Islamic in a unanimous resolution. On July 2, 2013 in Lahore, 50 Muslim scholars of the Sunni Ittehad Council (SIC) issued a collective fatwa against suicide bombings, the killing of innocent people, bomb attacks, and targeted killings. It considers them to be forbidden.\n\nAccording to Javed Ahmad Ghamidi, the only purposes of Islamic jihad are putting an end to persecution—even that of the non-Muslims—and making the religion of Islam reign supreme in the Arabian peninsula, the latter type being specific to Muhammad and no longer operative; it can only be waged under a sovereign state; there are strict ethical limits for jihad which do not allow fighting non-combatants; acts of terrorism including suicide bombing are prohibited.\n\n\nAn increasingly popular tactic used by terrorists is suicide bombing. This tactic is used against civilians, soldiers, and government officials of the regimes the terrorists oppose. A recent clerical ruling declares terrorism and suicide bombing as forbidden by Islam. However, groups who support its use often refer to such attacks as \"martyrdom operations\" and the suicide-bombers who commit them as \"martyrs\" (Arabic: shuhada, plural of \"shahid\"). The bombers, and their sympathizers often believe that suicide bombers, as martyrs (shaheed) to the cause of jihad against the enemy, will receive the rewards of paradise for their actions.\n\nIslamic terrorism sometimes employs the hijacking of passenger vehicles. The most infamous were the \"9/11\" attacks that killed nearly 3,000 people on a single day in 2001, effectively ending the era of aircraft hijacking.\n\nAlong with bombings and hijackings, Islamic terrorists have made extensive use of highly publicised kidnappings and executions, often circulating videos of the acts for use as propaganda. A frequent form of execution by these groups is decapitation, another is shooting. In the 1980s, a series of abductions of American citizens by Hezbollah during the Lebanese Civil War resulted in the 1986 Iran–Contra affair. During the chaos of the Iraq War, more than 200 kidnappings foreign hostages (for various reasons and by various groups, including purely criminal) gained great international notoriety, even as the great majority (thousands) of victims were Iraqis. In 2007, the kidnapping of Alan Johnston by Army of Islam resulted in the British government meeting a Hamas member for the first time.\n\nIslamist militants, including Boko Haram, Hamas, al-Qaeda and the ISIS, have used kidnapping as a method of fundraising, as a means of bargaining for political concessions, and as a way of intimidating potential opponents.\n\nMichael Rubin argued in 2005 that hostage-taking became popular among terrorist groups as a tactic that can hold the attention of a public that had become inured to mass death techniques such as suicide bombing, and that it can garner significant \"political and diplomatic\" payoff. Rubin writes that Islamist kidnappers have the additional, \"ideological goals\" of using hostages both to \"shock the outside world\" and to \"appeal to their own constituency\", and that the public humiliation of hostages is a specific Islamist goal. He also deems hostage taking as an effective technique for cowing a population by making governments appear weak and by inspiring fear of opposing the Islamists. He does not regard kidnapping as an effective recruitment technique.\n\nIn his 2007 book, \"Islamic Terror Abductions in the Middle East\", military historian Shaul Shay argued in 2014 that Islamists consider hostage taking as a strategic tool that can effectively gain concessions from targeted governments.\n\nIn September 2014, the German Foreign Ministry reported that the Islamist militant group Abu Sayyaf had kidnapped two German nationals and was threatening to kill them unless the German government withdraw its support for the war against ISIS and also pay a large ransom. In September 2014 an Islamist militant group kidnapped a French national in Algeria and threatened to kill the hostage unless the government of France withdrew its support for the war against ISIS.\n\nAccording to the International Business Times, in October, 2014 the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) released a five-point justification of its right to take non-Muslims hostage, and decapitate, ransom or enslave them. British Muslim cleric Anjem Choudary told The Clarion Project that kidnapping and even beheading hostages is justified by Islam.\n\nNasir al-Wuhayshi leader of the Islamist militant group Al-Qaida in the Arabian Peninsula describes kidnapped hostages as \"an easy spoil... which I may describe as a profitable trade and a precious treasure.\"\n\nA 2014 investigation, by journalist Rukmini Maria Callimachi published in \"The New York Times\" demonstrated that between 2008 and 2014, Al Qaeda and groups directly affiliated with al-Qaeda took in over US$125 million from kidnapping, with $66 million of that total paid in 2013 alone. The article showed that from a somewhat haphazard beginning in 2003, kidnapping grew into the group's main fundraising strategy, with targeted, professional kidnapping of civilians from wealthy European countries—principally France, Spain and Switzerland—willing to pay huge ransoms. US and UK nationals are less commonly targeted since these governments have shown an unwillingness to pay ransom.\n\nBoko Haram kidnapped Europeans for the Ransom their governments would pay in the early 2010s. For example, in the spring of 2013, Boko Haram kidnapped and within 2 months released a French family of 7 and 9 other hostages in exchange for a payment by the French government of $3.15 million.\n\nAccording to Yochi Dreazen writing in \"Foreign Policy\", although ISIS received funding from Qatar, Kuwait and other Gulf oil states, \"traditional criminal techniques like kidnapping\", are a key funding source for ISIS. Armin Rosen writing in Business Insider, kidnapping was a \"crucial early source\" of funds as ISIS expanded rapidly in 2013. In March, upon receiving payment from the government of Spain, ISIS released 2 Spanish hostages working for the newspaper El Mundo, correspondent Javier Espinosa and photographer Ricardo Garcia Vilanova, who had been held since September, 2013. Philip Balboni, CEO of GlobalPost told the press that he had spent \"millions\" in efforts to ransom journalist James Foley, and an American official told the Associated Press that demand from ISIS was for 100 million ($132.5). In September 2014, following the release of ISIS Beheading videos of journalists James Foley and Steven Sotloff, British Prime Minister David Cameron appealed to members of the G7 to abide by their pledges not to pay ransom \"in the case of terrorist kidnap\".\n\nHolding foreign journalists as hostages is so valuable to ISIS that Rami Jarrah, a Syrian who has acted as go-between in efforts to ransom foreign hostages, told the \"Wall Street Journal\" that ISIS had \"made it known\" to other militant groups that they \"would pay\" for kidnapped journalists. ISIS has also kidnapped foreign-aid workers and Syrians who work for foreign-funded groups and reconstruction projects in Syria. By mid-2014, ISIS was holding assets valued at US$2 billion, which made it the world's wealthiest Islamist group.\n\nAccording to CNN, the self-styled Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant \"justifies its kidnapping of women as sex slaves citing Islamic theology\" in an article entitled, 'The revival (of) slavery before the Hour,' (of Judgement Day), published in the ISIL online magazine, \"Dabiq\", claimed that Yazidi women can be taken captive and forced to become sex slaves or concubines under Islamic law, \"One should remember that enslaving the families of the kuffar—the infidels—and taking their women as concubines is a firmly established aspect of the Shariah, or Islamic law.\"\n\nAbubakar Shekau, the leader of Boko Haram, a Nigerian extremist group, said in an interview \"I shall capture people and make them slaves\" when claiming responsibility for the 2014 Chibok kidnapping.\n\nBoko Haram has been described as using kidnapping as a means of intimidating the civilian population into non-resistance.\n\nAccording to psychologist Irwin Mansdorf, Hamas demonstrated effectiveness of kidnapping as a form of psychological warfare in the 2006 capture of the Israeli soldier Gilad Shalit when public pressure forced the government of Israel to release 1027 prisoners, including 280 convicted of terrorism by Israel, in exchange for his release. According to \"The New York Times\", \"Hamas has recognized the pull such incidents have over the Israeli psyche and clearly has moved to grab hostages in incidents such as the death and ransoming of Oron Shaul.\"\n\nIn the beginning of the 21st century, emerged a worldwide network of hundreds of web sites that inspire, train, educate and recruit young Muslims to engage in jihad against the United States and other Western countries, taking less prominent roles in mosques and community centers that are under scrutiny. According to \"The Washington Post\", \"Online recruiting has exponentially increased, with Facebook, YouTube and the increasing sophistication of people online\".\n\nSome prominent Islamic terror groups and incidents include the following:\n\nThe Armed Islamic Group, active in Algeria between 1992 and 1998, was one of the most violent Islamic terrorist groups, and is thought to have takfired the Muslim population of Algeria. Its campaign to overthrow the Algerian government included civilian massacres, sometimes wiping out entire villages in its area of operation. It also targeted foreigners living in Algeria, killing more than 100 expatriates in the country. In recent years it has been eclipsed by a splinter group, the Salafist Group for Preaching and Combat (GSPC), now called Al-Qaeda Organization in the Islamic Maghreb.\n\nBoko Haram is an Islamic extremist group based in northeastern Nigeria, also active in Chad, Niger and northern Cameroon.\n\nAl-Shabaab is a militant jihadist terrorist group based in East Africa. In 2012, it pledged allegiance to the militant Islamist organization Al-Qaeda. It is a participant in the Somali Civil War, and is reportedly being used by Egypt to destabilize Ethiopia, and attracting converts from predominantly Christian Kenya.\n\nAccording to Human Rights Watch, Taliban and Hezb-e-Islami Gulbuddin forces have \"sharply escalated bombing and other attacks\" against civilians since 2006. In 2006, \"at least 669 Afghan civilians were killed in at least 350 armed attacks, most of which appear to have been intentionally launched at civilians or civilian objects\".\n\nKyrgyz-American brothers Dzhokhar Tsarnaev and Tamerlan Tsarnaev were responsible for the Boston Marathon bombing.\n\nThe government blamed the IMU (Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan) for training those responsible for carrying out a suicide car bombing of a police station in Khujand on September 3, 2010. Two policemen were killed and 25 injured.\n\nOn February 16, 1999, six car bombs exploded in Tashkent, killing 16 and injuring more than 100, in what may have been an attempt to assassinate President Islam Karimov. The IMU was blamed.\n\nThe IMU launched a series of attacks in Tashkent and Bukhara in March and April 2004. Gunmen and female suicide bombers took part in the attacks, which mainly targeted police. The violence killed 33 militants, 10 policemen, and four civilians. The government blamed Hizb ut-Tahrir, though the Islamic Jihad Union (IJU) claimed responsibility.\n\nFurkat Kasimovich Yusupov was arrested in the first half of 2004, and charged as the leader of a group that had carried out the March 28 bombing on behalf of Hizb ut-Tahrir.\n\nOn July 30, 2004, suicide bombers struck the entrances of the US and Israeli embassies in Tashkent. Two Uzbek security guards were killed in both bombings. The IJU again claimed responsibility.\n\nForeign commentators on Uzbek affairs speculated that the 2004 violence could have been the work of the IMU, Al-Qaeda, Hizb ut-Tahrir, or some other radical Islamic organization.\n\n\nIn Bangladesh, the group Jamaat-ul-Mujahideen Bangladesh was formed sometime in 1998, and gained prominence in 2001. The organization was officially banned in February 2005 after attacks on NGOs, but struck back in August when 300 bombs were detonated almost simultaneously throughout Bangladesh, targeting Shahjalal International Airport, government buildings and major hotels.\n\nThe Ansarullah Bangla Team (ABT), also called Ansar Bangla is an Islamic extremist organization in Bangladesh, implicated in crimes including some brutal attacks and murders of atheist bloggers from 2013 to 2015 and a bank heist in April 2015.\n\nHarkat-ul-Jihad-al-Islami (, \"Ḥarkat al-Jihād al-Islāmiyah\", meaning \"Islamic Jihad Movement\", HuJI) is an Islamic fundamentalist organisation most active in South Asian countries of Pakistan, Bangladesh and India since the early 1990s. It was banned in Bangladesh in 2005.\n\nLashkar-e-Taiba, Jaish-e-Mohammed, Al Badr & Hizbul Mujahideen are militant groups seeking accession of Kashmir to Pakistan from India. The Lashkar leadership describes Indian and Israel regimes as the main enemies of Islam and Pakistan that is an extremist thought but is not real. Lashkar-e-Toiba, along with Jaish-e-Mohammed, another militant group active in Kashmir are on the United States' foreign terrorist organizations list, and are also designated as terrorist groups by the United Kingdom, India, Australia and Pakistan. Jaish-e-Mohammed was formed in 1994 and has carried out a series of attacks all over India. The group was formed after the supporters of Maulana Masood Azhar split from another Islamic militant organization, Harkat-ul-Mujahideen. Jaish-e-Mohammed is viewed by some as the \"deadliest\" and \"the principal terrorist organization in Jammu and Kashmir\". The group was also implicated in the kidnapping and murder of American journalist Daniel Pearl. All these groups coordinate under leadership of Syed Salahuddin's United Jihad Council.\n\nSome major bomb blasts and attacks in India were perpetrated by Islamic militants from Pakistan, e.g. the 2008 Mumbai attacks and 2001 Indian Parliament attack.\n\nThe Abu Sayyaf Group, also known as al-Harakat al-Islamiyya, is one of several militant Islamic-separatist groups based in and around the southern islands of the Philippines, in Autonomous Region of Muslim Mindanao (Jolo, Basilan, and Mindanao) where for almost 30 years various Muslim groups have been engaged in an insurgency for a state, independent of the predominantly Christian Philippines. The name of the group is derived from the Arabic ابو, \"abu\" (\"father of\") and \"sayyaf\" (\"Swordsmith\"). Since its inception in the early 1990s, the group has carried out bombings, assassinations, kidnappings and extortion in their fight for an independent Islamic state in western Mindanao and the Sulu Archipelago with the stated goal of creating a pan-Islamic superstate across southeast Asia, spanning from east to west; the island of Mindanao, the Sulu Archipelago, the island of Borneo (Malaysia, Indonesia), the South China Sea, and the Malay Peninsula (Peninsular Malaysia, Thailand and Myanmar). The U.S. Department of State has branded the group a terrorist entity by adding it to the list of Foreign Terrorist Organizations.\n\nMost of the terrorist incidents in Thailand are related to the South Thailand insurgency.\n\nLethal attacks on civilians in Europe which have been credited to Islamist terrorism include the 2004 bombings of commuter trains in Madrid, where 191 people were killed, the 7 July 2005 London bombings, also of public transport, which killed 52 commuters, and the 2015 \"Charlie Hebdo\" shooting, in Paris, where 12 people were killed in response to the satirical weekly newspaper \"Charlie Hebdo\" depicting cartoons of Muhammad. On November 13, 2015 the French capital suffered a series of coordinated attacks, claimed by ISIS, that killed 129 people in restaurants, the Bataclan theatre and the Stade de France.\n\nIn 2009, a Europol report showed that more than 99% of terrorist attacks in Europe over the last three years were, carried out by non-Muslims. Out of 1,009 arrests for terrorism in 2008, 187 were in relation to Islamist terrorism. The report showed that the majority of Islamist terror suspects were second or third generation immigrants. Swedish economist Tino Sanandaji has criticised the use of statistics where the number of attacks are counted instead of the number of killed, since 79% of terrorist deaths 2001-2011 in Europe were due to Islamic terrorism. Therefore statistics focusing on the number of attacks instead of the number killed are exploited by those who wish to trivialise the phenomenon. The great difference in the number of attacks versus the number of killed is that separaist attacks in Spain, typically involve vandalism and not killing. So in statistics, the global terrorist plot leading to the 9/11 attack and a party headquarters being vandalised and painted with slogans by domestic terrorists each count as one terrorist attack. According to a report by Europol on terrorism in the European Union, in 2016 \"nearly all reported fatalities and most of the casualties were the result of jihadist terrorist attacks.\" A majority of about two-thirds of all terrorist-related arrests in the EU were also jihadist-related.\n\nThe majority of deaths by terrorism in Europe from 2001 to 2014 were caused by Islamic terrorism, even while not including Islamic terrorist attacks in Russia.\n\nAccording to the British think tank ICSR, up to 40% of terrorist plots in Europe are part-financed through petty crime such as drug-dealing, theft, robberies, loan fraud and burglaries. Jihadists use ordinary crime as a way to finance their activity and have also argued this to be the \"ideologically correct\" way to wage jihad in non-Muslim lands.\n\nThe pattern of jihadist attacks in 2017 led Europol to conclude that terrorists preferred to attack ordinary people rather than causing property damage or loss of capital.\n\nAccording to Europol, the jihadist attacks in 2017 had three patterns:\n\n\nThe agency's report also noted that jihadist attacks had caused more deaths and casualties than any other type of terrorist attack, that such attacks had become more frequent, and that there had been a decrease in the sophistication and preparation of the attacks.\n\nAccording to Susanne Schröter, the 2017 attacks in European countries showed that the military defeat of the Islamic State did not mean the end of Islamist violence. Schröter also wrote that the events in Europe looked like a delayed implementation of jihadist strategy formulated by Abu Musab al-Suri in 2005, where an intensification of terror should destabilise societies and encourage Muslim youth to revolt. The expected civil war never materialised Europe, but did occur in other regions such as North Africa and the Philippines.\n\nIn April 2018, EU anti-terror coordinator estimated there to be 50,000 radicalized Muslims living in Europe.\n\nHad its first occurrences with religious extremism in the 1980s due to French involvement in the Lebanese civil war. In the 1990s, a series of attacks on French soil were executed by the Armed Islamic Group of Algeria (GIA). In the 1990-2010 time span, France experienced repeated attacks linked to international jihadist movements. \"Le Monde\" reported on 26 July 2016 that \"Islamist Terrorism\" had caused 236 dead in France in the preceding 18-month period.\n\nThe deadly attacks in 2015 in France changed the issue of Islamist radicalization from a security threat to also constitute a social problem. Prime minister François Hollande and prime minister Manuel Valls saw the fundamental values of the French republic being challenged and called them attacks against secular, enlightenment and democratic values along with \"what makes us who we are\".\n\nDespite Italy having several factors which could have made it a hub of jihadist activity such as proximity to the Middle East and North Africa, reatively porous borders and a large influx migrants from Muslim majority countries, Italy has not experienced the same surge in radicalization as other European countries. While 125 individuals with \"ties\" to Italy, a minority of whom are Italian citizens, left Italy to join the civil war in Iraq and Syria, this is a small number considering that Belgium had 470 and Sweden had 300 such individuals despite both having much smaller populations. Since the September 11 attacks in 2001, there have been a small number of plots either thwarted or failed. Two individuals born in Italy have been involved in 2010s terrorist attacks, Youssef Zaghba one of the trio of attackers in the June 2017 London Bridge attack while ISIS sympathizer Tomasso Hosni attacked soldiers at Milan's Central station in May 2017. Deportation of foreign suspects have been the cornerstone of Italy's counter-terrorism strategy and from January 2015 to April 2018, 300 individuals were expulsed from Italian soil.\n\nIn 2012, two men were sentenced in Oslo to seven and a half years in jail for an attack against Mohammad-cartoonist Kurt Westergaard.This was the first sentence under the new anti-terror legislation. A third man was freed from the accusation of terrorism, but was sentenced for helping with explosives and he received a fourth month prison sentence.\n\nJihadists were present in Spain from 1994, when an al-Qaeda cell was established. In 1996, the Armed Islamic Group of Algeria (GIA), an organisation affiliated with al-Qaeda, founded a cell in the province of Valencia. In the 1995-2003 period, slightly over 100 people were arrested for offences releated to militant salafism, an average of 12 per year. \n\nIn 2004, Madrid commuters suffered the 2004 Madrid train bombings, which were perpetrated by remnants of the first al-Qaeda cell, members of the Moroccan Islamic Combatant Group (GICM) plus a gang of criminals turned into jihadists.\n\nIn the period 2004-2012, the there were 470 arrests, an average of 52 per year and four times the pre-Madrid bombings average which indicated that the jihadist threat persisted after the Madrid attack. In the years after the Madrid attack, 90% of all jihadists convicted in Spain were foreigners, mainly from Morocco, Pakistan and Algeria, while 7 out of 10 resided in the metropolitan areas of Madrid or Barcelona. The vast majority were involved in cells linked to organisations such as al-Qaeda, the GICM, the Algerian salafist group Group for Preaching and Combat which had replaced the GIA, and Tehrik-i-Taliban Pakistan.\n\nIn the period 2013, jihadism in Spain transformed to be less overwhelmingly associated with foreigners. Arrests 2013-2017 show that 4 out of 10 arrested were Spanish nationals and 3 out of 10 were born in Spain. Most others had Morocco as country of nationality or birth with its main focus among Moroccan descendants residing in the North African cities of Ceuta and Melilla. The most prominent jihadist presence was the province of Barcelona. In 2013 and 2014 there were cells associated with Al-Nusra Front, the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant.\n\nIn 2017, a terrorist cell based in the province of Bacelona carried out the vehicle ramming 2017 Barcelona attacks, even if their original plans were on a larger scale.\n\nIn April 2018 there were an estimated 5000 radicalized Muslims living on Spanish soil.\n\nPolitically and religiously motivated attacks on civilians in Russia have been traced to separatist sentiment among the largely Muslim population of its North Caucasus region, particularly in Chechnya, where the central government of the Russian Federation has waged two bloody wars against the local secular separatist government since 1994. In the Moscow theater hostage crisis in October 2002, three Chechen separatist groups took an estimated 850 people hostage in the Russian capital; at least 129 hostages died during the storming by Russian special forces, all but one killed by the chemicals used to subdue the attackers (whether this attack would more properly be called a nationalist rather than an Islamist attack is in question). In the September 2004 Beslan school hostage crisis more than 1,000 people were taken hostage after a school in the Russian republic of North Ossetia–Alania was seized by a pro-Chechen multi-ethnic group aligned to Riyad-us Saliheen Brigade of Martyrs; hundreds of people died during the storming by Russian forces.\n\nSince 2000, Russia has also experienced a string of suicide bombings that killed hundreds of people in the Caucasian republics of Chechnya, Dagestan and Ingushetia, as well as in Russia proper including Moscow. Responsibility for most of these attacks were claimed by either Shamil Basayev's Islamic-nationalist rebel faction or, later, by Dokka Umarov's pan-Islamist movement Caucasus Emirate which is aiming to unite most of Russia's North Caucasus as an emirate since its creation in 2007. Since the creation of the Caucasus Emirate, the group has abandoned its secular nationalist goals and fully adopted the ideology of Salafist-takfiri Jihadism which seeks to advance the cause of Allah on the earth by waging war against the Russian government and non-Muslims in the North Caucasus, such as the local Sufi Muslim population, whom they view as mushrikeen (polytheists) who do not adhere to true Islamic teachings. In 2011, the U.S. Department of State included the Caucasus Emirate on its list of terrorist organisations.\n\nHistorians have said that militant Islamism first gained ground among Kurds before its appeal grew among ethnic Turks and that the two most important radical Islamist organizsations have been an outgrowth of Kurdish Islamism rather than Turkish Islamism. The Turkish or Kurdish Hizbullah is a primarily Kurdish group has its roots in the predominantly Kurdish southeast of Turkey and among Kurds who migrated to the cities in Western Turkey. The members of the IBDA-C were predominantly Kurds, most members if not all are ethnic Kurds like its founder, as in the Hizbullah. The IBDA-C stressed its Kurdish roots, and is fighting Turkish secularism, and is also anti-Christian. The Hizbula reestablished in 2003 in southeastern Turkey and \"today its ideology might be more widespread thean ever among Kurds there\". The influence of these groups confirms \"the continuing Kurdish domination of Turkish islamism\". Notable Kurdish Islamists include also(an Iraqi Kurd born in Sudan) co-founder of the Islamist terrorist network al-Qaeda. There is a strong Kurdish element in Turkish radical Islamism. Kurdish and Turkish Islamists have also co-operated together, one example being the 2003 Istanbul bombings, and this co-operation has also been observed in Germany, as in the case of the Sauerland terror cell. Political scientist Guido Steinberg stated that many top leaders of Islamist organizations in Turkey fled to Germany in the 2000s, and that the Turkish Hizbullah has also \"left an imprint on Turkish Kurds in Germany\". Also many Kurds from Iraq (there are about 50,000 to 80,000 Iraqi Kurds in Germany) financially supported Kurdish-Islamist groups like Ansar al Islam. Many Islamists in Germany are ethnic Kurds (Iraqi and Turkish Kurds) or Turks. Before 2006, the German Islamist scene was dominated by Iraqi Kurds and Palestinians, but since 2006 Kurds and Turks from Turkey are dominant.\n\nHezbollah in Turkey (unrelated to the Shia Hezbollah in Lebanon) is a Sunni terrorist group accused of a series of attacks, including the November 2003 bombings of two synagogues, the British consulate in Istanbul and HSBC bank headquarters that killed 58. Hizbullah's leader, Hüseyin Velioğlu, was killed in action by Turkish police in Beykoz on 17 January 2000. Besides Hizbullah, other Islamic groups listed as a terrorist organization by Turkish police counter-terrorism include Great Eastern Islamic Raiders' Front, al-Qaeda in Turkey, Tevhid-Selam (also known as \"al-Quds Army\") and Caliphate State. Islamic Party of Kurdistan and Hereketa İslamiya Kurdistan are also Islamist groups active against Turkey, however unlike Hizbullah they're yet to be listed as active terrorist organizations in Turkey by Turkish police counter-terrorism.\n\nThe area that has seen some of the worst terror attacks in modern history has been Iraq as part of the Iraq War. In 2005, there were more than 400 incidents of suicide bombing attacks, killing more than 2,000 people. In 2006, almost half of all reported terrorist attacks in the world (6,600), and more than half of all terrorist fatalities (13,000), occurred in Iraq, according to the National Counterterrorism Center of the United States. Along with nationalist groups and criminal, non-political attacks, the Iraqi insurgency includes Islamist insurgent groups, such as Al-Qaeda in Iraq, who favor suicide attacks far more than non-Islamist groups. At least some of the terrorism has a transnational character in that some foreign Islamic jihadists have joined the insurgency.\n\nHamas (\"zeal\" in Arabic and an acronym for Harakat al-Muqawama al-Islamiyya) grew in power and began attacks on military and civilian targets in Israel at the beginning of the First Intifada in 1987. The 1988 charter of Hamas calls for the destruction of Israel. Hamas's armed wing, the Izz ad-Din al-Qassam Brigades, was established in mid 1991 and claimed responsibility for numerous attacks against Israelis, principally suicide bombings and rocket attacks. Hamas has been accused of sabotaging the Israeli-Palestine peace process by launching attacks on civilians during Israeli elections to anger Israeli voters and facilitate the election of harder-line Israeli candidates. Hamas has been designated as a terrorist group by Canada, the United States, Israel, Australia, Japan, the United Nations Commission on Human Rights and Human Rights Watch. It is banned in Jordan. Russia does not consider Hamas a terrorist group as it was \"democratically elected\". During the second intifada (September 2000 through August 2005) 39.9 percent of the suicide attacks were carried out by Hamas. The first Hamas suicide attack was the Mehola Junction bombing in 1993. Hamas claims its aims are \"To contribute in the effort of liberating Palestine and restoring the rights of the Palestinian people under the sacred Islamic teachings of the Holy Quran, the Sunna (traditions) of Prophet Mohammad (peace and blessings of Allah be upon him) and the traditions of Muslims rulers and scholars noted for their piety and dedication.\"\n\nIslamic Jihad Movement in Palestine is a Palestinian Islamist group based in the Syrian capital, Damascus, and dedicated to waging jihad to eliminate the state of Israel. It was formed by Palestinian Fathi Shaqaqi in the Gaza Strip following the Iranian Revolution which inspired its members. From 1983 onward, it engaged in \"a succession of violent, high-profile attacks\" on Israeli targets. The Intifada which \"it eventually sparked\" was quickly taken over by the much larger Palestine Liberation Organization and Hamas. Beginning in September 2000, it started a campaign of suicide bombing attacks against Israeli civilians. The PIJ's armed wing, the Al-Quds brigades, has claimed responsibility for numerous terrorist attacks in Israel, including suicide bombings. The group has been designated as a terrorist organization by several Western countries.\n\nPopular Resistance Committees is a coalition of a number of armed Palestinian groups opposed to what they regard as the conciliatory approach of the Palestinian Authority and Fatah towards Israel. The PRC is especially active in the Gaza Strip, through its military wing, the Al-Nasser Salah al-Deen Brigades. The PRC is said to have an extreme Islamic worldview and operates with Hamas and the Islamic Jihad movement. The PRC has carried out several attacks against Israeli civilians and soldiers including hundreds of shooting attacks and other rocket and bombing attacks.\n\nOther groups linked with Al-Qaeda operate in the Gaza Strip including: Army of Islam, Abdullah Azzam Brigades, Jund Ansar Allah, Jaljalat and Tawhid al-Jihad.\n\nHezbollah first emerged in 1982, as a militia during the 1982 Lebanon War. Its leaders were inspired by the Ayatollah Khomeini, and its forces were trained and organized by a contingent of Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps. Hezbollah's 1985 manifesto listed its three main goals as \"putting an end to any colonialist entity\" in Lebanon, bringing the Phalangists to justice for \"the crimes they [had] perpetrated\", and the establishment of an Islamic regime in Lebanon. Hezbollah leaders have also made numerous statements calling for the destruction of Israel, which they refer to as a \"Zionist entity... built on lands wrested from their owners.\"\n\nHezbollah, which started with only a small militia, has grown to an organization with seats in the Lebanese government, a radio and a satellite television-station, and programs for social development. They maintain strong support among Lebanon's Shi'a population, and gained a surge of support from Lebanon's broader population (Sunni, Christian, Druze) immediately following the 2006 Lebanon War, and are able to mobilize demonstrations of hundreds of thousands. Hezbollah along with some other groups began the 2006–2008 Lebanese political protests in opposition to the government of Prime Minister Fouad Siniora. A later dispute over Hezbollah preservation of its telecoms network led to clashes and Hezbollah-led opposition fighters seized control of several West Beirut neighborhoods from Future Movement militiamen loyal to Fouad Siniora. These areas were then handed over to the Lebanese Army.\n\nA national unity government was formed in 2008, in Lebanon, giving Hezbollah and its opposition allies control of 11 of 30 cabinets seats; effectively veto power. Hezbollah receives its financial support from the governments of Iran and Syria, as well as donations from Lebanese people and foreign Shi'as. It has also gained significantly in military strength in the 2000s. Despite a June 2008 certification by the United Nations that Israel had withdrawn from all Lebanese territory,<ref name=\"SC/6878\"></ref> in August, Lebanon's new Cabinet unanimously approved a draft policy statement which secures Hezbollah's existence as an armed organization and guarantees its right to \"liberate or recover occupied lands\". Since 1992, the organization has been headed by Hassan Nasrallah, its Secretary-General. The United States, Canada, Israel, Bahrain, France, Gulf Cooperation Council, and the Netherlands regard Hezbollah as a terrorist organization, while the United Kingdom, the European Union and Australia consider only Hezbollah's military wing or its external security organization to be a terrorist organization. Many consider it, or a part of it, to be a terrorist group responsible for blowing up the American embassy and later its annex, as well as the barracks of American and French peacekeeping troops and a dozens of kidnappings of foreigners in Beirut. It is also accused of being the recipient of massive aid from Iran, and of serving \"Iranian foreign policy calculations and interests\", or serving as a \"subcontractor of Iranian initiatives\" Hezbollah denies any involvement or dependence on Iran. In the Arab and Muslim worlds, on the other hand, Hezbollah is regarded as a legitimate and successful resistance movement that drove both Western powers and Israel out of Lebanon. In 2005, the Lebanese Prime Minister said of Hezbollah, it \"is not a militia. It's a resistance.\"\n\nFatah al-Islam is an Islamist group operating out of the Nahr al-Bared refugee camp in northern Lebanon. It was formed in November 2006, by fighters who broke off from the pro-Syrian Fatah al-Intifada, itself a splinter group of the Palestinian Fatah movement, and is led by a Palestinian fugitive militant named Shaker al-Abssi. The group's members have been described as militant jihadists, and the group itself has been described as a terrorist movement that draws inspiration from al-Qaeda. Its stated goal is to reform the Palestinian refugee camps under Islamic sharia law, and its primary targets are the Lebanese authorities, Israel and the United States.\n\nAccording to recent government statements Islamic terrorism is the biggest threat to Canada. The Canadian Security Intelligence Service (CSIS) reported that terrorist radicalization at home is now the chief preoccupation of Canada's spy agency. The most notorious arrest in Canada's fight on terrorism, was the 2006 Ontario terrorism plot in which 18 Al-Qaeda-inspired cell members were arrested for planning a mass bombing, shooting, and hostage taking terror plot throughout Southern Ontario. There have also been other arrests mostly in Ontario involving terror plots.\n\nBetween 1993 and 2001, the major attacks or attempts against U.S. interests stemmed from militant Islamic jihad extremism except for the 1995 Oklahoma City bombing. On September 11, 2001, nearly 3,000 people were killed in New York City, Washington, DC, and Stonycreek Township near Shanksville, Pennsylvania, during the September 11 attacks organized by 19 al-Qaeda members and largely perpetrated by Saudi nationals, sparking the War on Terror. Former CIA Director Michael Hayden considers homegrown terrorism to be the most dangerous threat and concern faced by American citizens today. As of July 2011, there have been 52 homegrown jihadist extremist plots or attacks in the United States since the September 11 attacks.\n\nOne of the worst mass shootings in U.S. history was committed by a Muslim against LGBT people. Omar Mateen, in an act motivated by the terrorist group Islamic State, shot and murdered 49 people and wounded more than 50 in a gay nightclub, Pulse, in Orlando, Florida.\n\n\nThe 1992 attack on Israeli embassy in Buenos Aires, was a suicide bombing attack on the building of the Israeli embassy of Argentina, located in Buenos Aires, which was carried out on 17 March 1992. Twenty-nine civilians were killed in the attack and 242 additional civilians were injured. A group called Islamic Jihad Organization, which has been linked to Iran and possibly Hezbollah, claimed responsibility.\n\nAn incident from 1994, known as the AMIA bombing, was an attack on the Asociación Mutual Israelita Argentina (Argentine Israelite Mutual Association) building in Buenos Aires. It occurred on July 18 and killed 85 people and injured hundreds more. A suicide bomber drove a Renault Trafic van bomb loaded with about of ammonium nitrate fertilizer and fuel oil explosive mixture, into the Jewish Community Center building located in a densely constructed commercial area of Buenos Aires. Prosecutors Alberto Nisman and Marcelo Martínez Burgos formally accused the government of Iran of directing the bombing, and the Hezbollah militia of carrying it out. The prosecution claimed that Argentina had been targeted by Iran after Buenos Aires' decision to suspend a nuclear technology transfer contract to Tehran.\n\nAl-Qaeda's stated aim is the use of jihad to defend and protect Islam against Zionism, Christianity, Hinduism, the secular West, and Muslim governments such as Saudi Arabia, which it sees as insufficiently Islamic and too closely tied to the United States. Formed by Osama bin Laden and Muhammad Atef in the aftermath of the Soviet–Afghan War in the late 1980s, al-Qaeda called for the use of violence against civilians and military of the United States and any countries that are allied with it.\n\nStatistics compiled by the United States government's Counterterrorism Center present a complicated picture: of known and specified terrorist incidents from the beginning of 2004 through the first quarter of 2005, slightly more than half of the fatalities were attributed to Islamic extremists but a majority of over-all incidents were considered of either \"unknown/unspecified\" or a secular political nature. The vast majority of the \"unknown/unspecified\" terrorism fatalities did however happen in Islamic regions such as Iraq and Afghanistan, or in regions where Islam is otherwise involved in conflicts such as the West Bank, the Gaza Strip, southern Thailand and Kashmir.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "546314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=546314", "title": "Jewish humor", "text": "Jewish humor\n\nJewish humor is the long tradition of humor in Judaism dating back to the Torah and the Midrash from the ancient Middle East, but generally refers to the more recent stream of verbal and often anecdotal humor of Ashkenazi Jews which took root in the United States over the last hundred years, including in secular Jewish culture. European Jewish humor in its early form developed in the Jewish community of the Holy Roman Empire, with theological satire becoming a traditional way of clandestinely opposing Christianization.\n\nModern Jewish humor emerged during the nineteenth century among German-speaking Jews of the \"Haskalah\" (Jewish Enlightenment), matured in the shtetls of the Russian Empire, and then flourished in twentieth-century America, arriving with the millions of Jews who emigrated from Eastern Europe between the 1880s and the early 1920s. \n\nBeginning with vaudeville, and continuing through radio, stand-up comedy, film, and television, a disproportionately high percentage of American, German, and Russian comedians have been Jewish. \"Time\" estimated in 1978 that 80 percent of professional American comics were Jewish.\n\nJewish humor, while diverse, favors wordplay, irony, and satire, and its themes are highly anti-authoritarian, mocking religious and secular life alike. Sigmund Freud considered Jewish humor unique in that its humor is primarily derived from mocking of the in-group (Jews) rather than the \"other\". However rather than simply being self-deprecating it also contains a dialectical element of self-praise, which works in the opposite direction.\n\nJewish humor is rooted in several traditions. Recent scholarship places the origins of Jewish humor in one of history's earliest recorded documents, the Hebrew Bible, as well as the Talmud. In particular, the intellectual and legal methods of the Talmud, which uses elaborate legal arguments and situations often seen as so absurd as to be humorous, in order to tease out the meaning of religious law.\n\nHillel Halkin in his essay about Jewish humor traces some roots of the Jewish self-deprecating humor to the medieval influence of Arabic traditions on the Hebrew literature by quoting a witticism from Yehuda Alharizi's \"Tahkemoni\".\n\nA more recent one is an egalitarian tradition among the Jewish communities of Eastern Europe in which the powerful were often mocked subtly, rather than attacked overtly—as Saul Bellow once put it, \"Oppressed people tend to be witty.\" Jesters known as badchens used to poke fun at prominent members of the community during weddings, creating a good-natured tradition of humor as a levelling device. Rabbi Moshe Waldoks, a scholar of Jewish humor, argued:\n\nAfter Jews began to immigrate to America in large numbers, they, like other minority groups, found it difficult to gain mainstream acceptance and obtain upward mobility (As Lenny Bruce lampooned, \"He was charming. ... They said, 'C'mon! Let's go watch the Jew be charming!'\"). The newly-developing entertainment industry, combined with the Jewish humor tradition, provided a potential route for Jews to succeed. One of the first successful radio \"sitcoms\", \"The Goldbergs\", featured a Jewish family. As radio and television matured, many of its most famous comedians, including Jack Benny, Sid Caesar, George Burns, Eddie Cantor, Jack Carter, Henny Youngman, Milton Berle, and Jerry Lewis were Jewish. The Jewish comedy tradition continues today, with Jewish humor much entwined with that of mainstream humor, as comedies like \"Seinfeld\", \"Curb Your Enthusiasm\" and Woody Allen films indicate.\n\nSigmund Freud in his \"Jokes and their Relation to the Unconscious\", among other things, analyzes the nature of Jewish jokes.\n\nAs befits a community to which religion was so important, much humor centres on the relationship of Judaism to the individual Jew and the community.\n\nThe cognate to this is the part left out, the fact that it was traditional to go to services, regardless of what one believed, and the rabbi was merely following that tradition. This is like the story of the boy who tells his rabbi he can't daven (pray), because he no longer believes in God. The rabbi merely tells him, \"Yes God, no God: doesn't matter! Three times a day, you DAVEN!\"\n\nThe American Jewish community has been lamenting the rate of assimilation and disappearance of their children as they grow into adults.\n\nOr,\n\nJews often mock their own negative stereotypes.\n\nSimilarly, in the tradition of the legal arguments of the Talmud, one prominent type of Jewish humor involves clever, often legalistic, solutions to Talmudic problems, such as:\n\nSome jokes make fun of the \"Rebbe miracle stories\" and involve different hasidim bragging about their teachers' miraculous abilities:\nOr\nThe lives of the early hasidim, while not funny in and of themselves, are rich in humorous incidents. The dealings between rabbis, tzadikim, and peasants form a rich tapestry of lore.\n\nA number of traditions in Jewish humor date back to stories and anecdotes from the 19th century.\n\nJewish folklore makes fun of the Jewish residents of Chełm (Yiddish: כעלעם, Hebrew: חלם; often transcribed as Helm) as well-meaning fools. These stories often center around the \"wise\" men and their silly decisions, similarly to the English Wise Men of Gotham or the German Schildbürger.\n\nFor example: One Jewish Chełm resident bought a fish on Friday in order to cook it for Sabbath. He put the live fish underneath his coat and the fish slapped his face with his tail. He went to the Chełm court to submit a charge and the court sentenced the fish to death by drowning.\n\nMost of these stories have become well-known thanks to storytellers and writers such as Isaac Bashevis Singer, a Nobel Prize-winning Jewish writer in the Yiddish language, who wrote \"The Fools of Chełm and Their History\" (published in English translation in 1973), and the great Soviet Yiddish poet who wrote stories in verse. The latter achieved great popularity in the Soviet Union in Russian and Ukrainian translations, and were made into several animated films.\n\nOther notable adaptations of folklore Chełm stories into the mainstream culture are the comedy \"Chelmer Khakhomim\" (\"The Wise Men of Chelm\") by Aaron Zeitlin, \"The Heroes of Chelm\" (1942) by Shlomo Simon, published in English translation as \"The Wise Men of Helm\" (Solomon Simon, 1945) and \"More Wise Men of Helm\" (Solomon Simon, 1965), and the book \"Chelmer Khakhomim\" by Y. Y. Trunk. The animated short film comedy \"Village of Idiots\" also recounts Chełm tales.\n\nAllen Mandelbaum's \"\" (David R. Godine, 1978) treats the wise men less as fools than as an \"echt Chelm\" of true scholars who in their narrow specialized knowledge are nonetheless knowledgeable but lacking sense. \nThe poetry of [Chelmaxioms] is supposedly the discovered lost manuscripts of the wise men of Chelm. \n\nOne popular humorous tradition from Eastern Europe involved tales of the people of Chełm, a town reputed in these jokes to be inhabited by fools. The jokes were almost always centred on silly solutions to problems. Some of these solutions display \"foolish wisdom\" (reaching the correct answer by the wrong train of reasoning), while others are simply wrong.\n\nChełm tales were told by authors like Sholom Aleichem, Isaac Bashevis Singer and Solomon Simon. A typical Chełm story might begin, \"It is said that after God made the world, he filled it with people. He sent off an angel with two sacks, one full of wisdom and one full of foolishness. The second sack was much heavier. So after a time it started to drag. Soon it got caught on a mountaintop and so all the foolishness spilled out and fell into Chełm.\" The short animated film \"Village of Idiots\" is based upon classic Chełm tales.\n\nHere are a few examples of a Chełm tale:\n\nOr,\n\nOr,\n\nOr,\n\nHershele Ostropoler, also known as Hershel of Ostropol, was a legendary prankster who was based on a historic figure. Thought to have come from Ukraine, he lived in the small village of Ostropol, working as \"shochet\", a ritual slaughterer. According to legend he lost his job because of his constant joking, which offended the leaders of the village.\n\nIn his subsequent wanderings throughout Ukraine, he became a familiar figure at restaurants and inns.\n\nEventually he settled down at the court of Rabbi Boruch of Medzhybizh, grandson of the Baal Shem Tov. The rabbi was plagued by frequent depressions, and Hershele served as a sort of court jester, mocking the rabbi and his cronies, to the delight of the common folk.\n\nAfter his death he was remembered in a series of pamphlets recording his tales and witty remarks.\n\nHe was the subject of several epic poems, a novel, a comedy performed in 1930 by the Vilna Troupe, and a U.S. television programme in the 1950s. Two illustrated children's books, \"The Adventures of Hershel of Ostropol\", and \"Hershel and the Hanukkah Goblins\", have been published. Both books were written by Eric Kimmel and illustrated by Trina Schart Hyman. In 2002, a play entitled \"Hershele the Storyteller\" was performed in New York City.\n\nMuch Jewish humor takes the form of self-deprecating comments on Jewish culture, acting as a shield against antisemitic stereotypes by exploiting them first:\n\nOr, on a similar note:\n\nAnd another example, a direct slice of \"galgenhumor\" (gallows humor):\n\nThere is also humor originating in the United States, such as this joke:\n\nThis one combines accusations of the lack of patriotism, and avarice:\n\nSome Yiddish words may sound comical to an English speaker. Terms like shnook and shmendrik, shlemiel and shlimazel (often considered inherently funny words) were exploited for their humorous sounds, as were \"Yinglish\" shm-reduplication constructs, such as \"fancy-schmancy\". Yiddish constructions—such as ending sentences with questions—became part of the verbal word play of Jewish comedians.\n\nOne common strain of Jewish humor examines the role of religion in contemporary life, often gently mocking the religious hypocrite. For example:\n\nOr, on differences between Orthodox, Conservative and Reform movements:\n\nIn particular, Reform Jews may be lampooned for their rejection of traditional Jewish beliefs. An example, from one of Woody Allen's early stand-up routines:\nJokes have been made about the shifting of gender roles (in the more traditional Orthodox movement, women marry at a young age and have many children, while the more liberal Conservative and Reform movements make gender roles more egalitarian, even ordaining women as Rabbis). The Reconstructionist movement was the first to ordain homosexuals, all of which leads to this joke:\n\nOften jokes revolve around the \"social\" practice of the Jewish religion:\n\nAs with most ethnicities, jokes have often mocked Jewish accents—at times gently, and at others quite harshly. One of the kinder examples is:\n\nJewish humor continues to exploit stereotypes of Jews, both as a sort of \"in-joke\", and as a form of self-defence. Jewish mothers, \"cheapness\", hypochondria, and other stereotyped habits are all common subjects. Frugality has been frequently singled out:\n\nOr,\n\nOr,\n\nOr,\n\nOr,\n\nOr,\n\nOr, about traditional roles of men and women in Jewish families:\n\nOr,\n\nOr,\n\nOr, on parenting (from David Bader's \"Haikus for Jews\"):\n\nOr\n\nRegarding hypochondria:\n\nOr, on kvetching,\n\nA version of that joke is quoted in \"Born To Kvetch: Yiddish Language and Culture in All Its Moods\", by Michael Wex, who writes,\n\nMany Jewish jokes involve a rabbi and a Christian clergyman, exploiting different interpretations of a shared environment. Often they start with something like \"A rabbi and a priest...\" and make fun of either the rabbi's interpretation of Christianity or (seeming) differences between Christian and Jewish interpretation of some areas.\n\nOr, much more succinctly,\n\nA few more examples:\n\nOr,\n\nOr, \n\nOr,\n\nOr,\n\nAnd finally, possibly the most gigantic clash of religions:\n\nHowever, current events, situations, traditions, and cultural factors which are unique to the country make it hard to understand the joke for someone who is not aware of the events being referred to.\n\nIn the Stalinist police state, it was not uncommon to get purged not only for telling a casual joke, but even for not reporting it to the authorities. \"See Russian jokes in general, or more specifically Rabinovich jokes, Russian Jewish jokes, Russian political jokes; also History of the Jews in Russia and the Soviet Union.\"\nOr\n\nOr\n\nOr, in the last years of the Soviet Union:\n\nOr\nIsraeli humor featured many of the same themes as Jewish humor elsewhere, making fun of the country and its habits, while containing a fair bit of gallows humor as well, as a joke from a 1950 Israeli joke book indicates:\n\nIsraelis' view of themselves:\nFinally, in a clash of Rabbinical humor and Israeli humor:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "334439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=334439", "title": "Joseph Bosworth", "text": "Joseph Bosworth\n\nJoseph Bosworth (1788 – 27 May 1876) was an English scholar of the Anglo-Saxon language and compiler of the first major Anglo-Saxon dictionary.\n\nBorn in Derbyshire in 1788, Bosworth was educated at Repton School as a 'Poor Scholar' but left in his early teens and did not go to university. Despite the lack of a degree he somehow gained sufficient academic standing for the Church of England to allow him to become a priest. He became a curate in Bunny, Notts in 1814 and three years later became vicar of Little Horwood, Buckinghamshire. He was proficient in many European languages and made a particular study of Anglo-Saxon. This suggests that his years between leaving Repton and becoming a priest were spent working for someone whose own interests lay in these directions and who greatly encouraged Bosworth's academic development. There is no proof as to who this was but possible candidates are Sharon Turner (1768-1847) , a London solicitor turned researcher or Alexander Crombie (1762-1840), a Scottish-born philologist and proprietor of a school in London.\n\nBosworth was awarded an M.A. in 1822 by the University of Aberdeen on the recommendation of three other Buckinghamshire clergymen. In 1823, his \"Elements of Anglo-Saxon Grammar\" appeared, and he also matriculated at Trinity College, Cambridge as a 'ten-year' student. \nIn July 1825 he was elected a member of the American Antiquarian Society, and in June 1829, he was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society\n\nIn 1829, Bosworth went to the Netherlands as a chaplain, first in Amsterdam and then in Rotterdam. In 1831, the degree of Ph.D. was conferred on him by the University of Leyden. Trinity College, Cambridge granted him the degree of B.D. in 1834 and D.D. in 1839. He remained in the Netherlands until 1840, working on his \"A Dictionary of the Anglo-Saxon Language\" (1838), his best-known work. Thomas Northcote Toller later compiled a new edition of the dictionary based on Bosworth's work, both printed and in manuscript, and added a supplement (2 vols. 1898-1921). The University of Aberdeen granted him a LL.D. in 1838 on the recommendation of Alexander Crombie (see above) and Thomas Orger.\n\nIn 1858 Bosworth became Rector of Water Stratford, Buckinghamshire, and Rawlinsonian Professor of Anglo-Saxon at Oxford. He gave £10,000 to the University of Cambridge in 1867 for the establishment of the professorship of Anglo-Saxon. He died on 27 May 1876 leaving behind him a mass of annotations on the Anglo-Saxon charters and was buried on 2 June 1876 in Water Stratford churchyard. Income from his estate was left to various relatives for their lifetimes but as they died it was added to the endowment of his Oxford professorship.\n\nBosworth was succeeded by John Earle (1824–1903) and Arthur Sampson Napier (1853–1916). \nIn 1916, the chair was renamed to Rawlinson and Bosworth Professor of Anglo-Saxon in honour of Bosworth and his endowment, the first \"Rawlinson and Bosworth\" professor being Sir William Alexander Craigie (1867–1957), who in 1925 moved to a post at the University of Chicago (in order to work on his \"Dictionary of American English\") and was succeeded by J. R. R. Tolkien who held the post from 1925 to 1945.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30535575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30535575", "title": "Juan B. Ambrosetti Museum of Ethnography", "text": "Juan B. Ambrosetti Museum of Ethnography\n\nThe Juan B. Ambrosetti Museum of Ethnography is an Argentine museum maintained by the University of Buenos Aires School of Philosophy and Letters and located in Buenos Aires.\n\nAn estate on an eight-hectare (20 acre) property in Buenos Aires' Nueva Pompeya ward became the site of a homemade museum in 1866, when 14-year-old Francisco Moreno and his father classified and mounted their extensive collection of fossils and artifacts, gathered in excursions along the property and surroundings. The younger Moreno organized his collection as a public display, and with funding from the Province of Buenos Aires, inaugurated the Anthropology and Ethnography Museum of Buenos Aires in 1879.\n\nFeaturing over 15,000 artifacts, the collection was ultimately transferred to the new La Plata Museum in 1888. Explorations in the Gran Chaco region conducted at the time by University of Buenos Aires naturalist Juan Bautista Ambrosetti led to an extensive, new collection, however, and in 1904, the latter inaugurated the University of Buenos Aires Museum of Ethnography.\n\nThe museum became the first in Argentina to introduce guided excursions for its patrons, and travels along the Inca road system resulted in the 1908 discovery of Pucará de Tilcara, among the best-preserved ruins of settlements by Pre-Inca cultures in the area. Elaborate petroglyphs and over 3,000 other relics were recovered and catalogued in the following three years, and most were added to the collections of the Museum of Ethnography. The settlement itself was declared a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 2003.\n\nDr. Ambrosetti died in 1917, and its management was continued by his collaborators, Drs. Salvador Debenedetti and Félix Outes. The museum was relocated to its present location in the city's Montserrat ward in 1927; the Italianate structure had been designed by Pedro Benoit for the School of Law, and completed in 1878. Many of the collections of archeology and anthropology of the Bernardino Rivadavia Natural Sciences Museum were assigned to this museum in the decade of 1940, despite this, the institution became largely overshadowed. It was bolstered, however, by the 1958 creation of a Degree in Anthropology by the University of Buenos Aires, and the institution was subsequently transferred to the university's School of Philosophy and Letters.\n"}
{"id": "3801285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3801285", "title": "Judicial minimalism", "text": "Judicial minimalism\n\nJudicial minimalism refers to a philosophy in United States constitutional law which promotes itself as a politically moderate viewpoint such as that of retired Judge Sandra Day O'Connor. It is often compared to other judicial philosophies such as judicial activism, judicial originalism, and judicial textualism.\n\nMinimalists offer very small, case-specific interpretations of Constitutional Law as an alternative to what they see as the excesses of extremists on both sides. They believe that a stable Constitutional Law is in everybody's interest, and place great importance on the concept of precedent and \"stare decisis\". They argue that only very small interpretations away from precedent, narrowly applied, and based on the general direction of society constitute true judicial restraint rather than any originalist or strict constructionist viewpoint (in opposition to conservatives), while still allowing for a Living Constitution (albeit one with a much slower adaptation than many liberals would like). Depending on the minimalist's particular preferences, a minimalist on the court would be likely to either very slowly bolster or chip away at abortion precedents rather than proclaim a lasting ban on or legalization of abortion via Constitutional rulings.\n\nJustice Sandra Day O'Connor is often hailed by minimalists as their ideal Justice. In a concurring opinion in the 2011 Supreme Court case \"NASA v. Nelson\", Justice Antonin Scalia derided minimalism as a \"never-say-never disposition [which] does damage for several reasons\". Justice Samuel Alito, writing for the majority, defended the Court's minimalist approach in choosing to \"decide the case before us and leave broader issues for another day\".\n\nLargely associated with Cass R. Sunstein, it is a viewpoint which criticizes the more conservative stance of originalism as being judicial activism in disguise. Minimalists believe that a faithful application of originalist theory would result in a system of constitutional law in which modern societal standards would be ignored, in favor of the now-antiquated opinions held by the Founding Fathers, probably including their views on gender equality, racism, and other things, which modern society would find objectionable. Minimalists claim that conservatives who subscribe to originalism are likely to ignore precedent where it is convenient for conservative political aims. Minimalists also criticize traditional liberal judicial activism as overexpansive and as ignorant of precedent when it is convenient to liberal political aims.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20255695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20255695", "title": "L'Année épigraphique", "text": "L'Année épigraphique\n\nL'Année épigraphique (\"The Epigraphic Year\", standard abbreviation AE) is a French publication on epigraphy. It was set up by René Cagnat, as holder of the chair of 'Epigraphy and Roman antiquities' at the Collège de France and Jean-Guillaume Feignon, as assistant epigraphist, in 1888. \nIt was linked to the \"Revue archéologique\" until the issue dated 1964, when it became an autonomous publication of the PUF benefiting from a grant from the CNRS, a part was edited under its aegis. It systematically collects all the inscriptions discovered each year from all across the world concerning Ancient Rome, mainly in Latin or ancient Greek, and sorted by period.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "764323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=764323", "title": "Lawmaking", "text": "Lawmaking\n\nLawmaking is the process of crafting legislation. In its purest sense, it is the basis of governance. \nThis form of law making is also applied in India. It is a process which works in India on the basis of Indian Constitution.\nLawmaking in modern democracies is the work of legislatures, which exist at the local, regional, and national levels and make such laws as are appropriate to their level, and binding over those under their jurisdictions. These bodies are influenced by lobbyists, pressure groups, sometimes partisan considerations, but ultimately by the voters who elected them and to which they are responsible, if the system is working as intended. Even the expenditure of governmental funds is an aspect of lawmaking, as in most jurisdictions the budget is a matter of law.\n\nIn dictatorships and absolute monarchies the leader can make law essentially by the stroke of a pen, one of the main objections to such an arrangement. However, a seemingly-analogous event can occur even in a democracy where the executive can make executive orders which have the force of law. In some instance, even regulations issued by executive departments can have the force of law. Libertarians, in particular, are known for denouncing such actions as being anti-democratic, but they have become such a salient feature of modern governance that it is hard to picture a system in which they no longer exist, because it is hard to picture the time involved in every regulation being debated prior to becoming law. That, say libertarians, is precisely the point: if such executive orders and regulations do not stand up to legislative scrutiny, they should never be implemented. In response to this, limits on regulatory authority have been made legislatively, and libertarians still contend for, if not the abolition of executive orders altogether, then their automatic sunset after a fixed period if not legislatively reviewed and confirmed; this policy has been adopted in some jurisdictions.\n"}
{"id": "16753529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16753529", "title": "List of core-based statistical areas", "text": "List of core-based statistical areas\n\nThe United States Office of Management and Budget (OMB) has defined 917 core-based statistical areas (CBSAs) for the United States and 12 for Puerto Rico. The OMB defines a core-based statistical area as one or more adjacent counties or county equivalents that have at least one urban core area of at least 10,000 population, plus adjacent territory that has a high degree of social and economic integration with the core as measured by commuting ties. The 929 Core Based Statistical Areas currently defined by the OMB include the 388 metropolitan statistical areas (MSAs), which have an urban core population of at least 50,000, and the 541 Micropolitan statistical areas (μSAs), which have an urban core population of at least 10,000 but less than 50,000.\n\nThe following lists the 917 core-based statistical areas (CBSAs) of the United States with the following information:\n\nSee the Distribution of Statistical Areas for the number of Core Based Statistical Areas by state.\n\nThe following lists the 12 core-based statistical areas (CBSAs) of Puerto Rico with the following information:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8968660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8968660", "title": "Louisiana in the American Civil War", "text": "Louisiana in the American Civil War\n\nAntebellum Louisiana was a slave state, where enslaved African Americans had comprised the majority of the population during the eighteenth century French and Spanish colonial period. By the time the United States acquired the territory (1803) and Louisiana became a state (1812), the institution of slavery was entrenched. By 1860, 47% of the state's population were enslaved, though the state also had one of the largest free black populations in the United States. Much of the white population, particularly in the cities, supported southern states' rights and slavery, while pockets of support for the U.S. and its government existed in the more rural areas.\n\nLouisiana declared that it had seceded from the Union on January 26, 1861. New Orleans, the largest city in the South, was strategically important as a port city due to its southernmost location on the Mississippi River and its access to the Gulf of Mexico. The U.S. War Department early on planned for its capture. The city was taken by U.S. Army forces on April 25, 1862. Because a large part of the population had Union sympathies (or compatible commercial interests), the U.S. government took the unusual step of designating the areas of Louisiana then under U.S. control as a state within the Union, with its own elected representatives to the U.S. Congress. For the latter part of the war, both the U.S. and the Confederacy recognized their own distinct Louisiana governors.\n\nOn January 8, 1861, Louisiana Governor Thomas Overton Moore ordered the Louisiana militia to occupy the U.S. arsenal at Baton Rouge and the U.S. forts guarding New Orleans, Fort Jackson and Fort St. Philip. A wealthy planter and slave holder, Moore acted aggressively to engineer the secession of Louisiana from the Union by a convention on January 23. Only five percent of the public were represented in the convention, and the state's military actions were ordered before secession had been established—in defiance of the state constitution, which called for a popular referendum to establish a convention. Moore attempted to justify these actions, saying: \"I do not think it comports with the honor and self-respect of Louisiana as a slave-holding state to live under the government of a Black Republican president\", using an epithet for Republicans used by many Democrats at the time.\n\nThe strategies advanced to defend Louisiana and the other Gulf states of the Confederacy were first, the idea of King Cotton; that an unofficial embargo of cotton to Europe would force Britain to use its navy to intervene in protecting the new Confederacy. The second was a privateer fleet established by the issue of letters of marque and reprisal by President Jefferson Davis, which would sweep the sea clear of U.S. naval and commercial ships, and at the same time sustain Louisiana's booming port economy. The third was a reliance on the ring of pre-war masonry forts of the Third System of American coastal defense, combined with a fleet of revolutionary new ironclads, to safeguard the mouth of the Mississippi from the U.S. Navy. All of these strategies were failures.\n\nIn March 1861, George Williamson, the Louisianan state commissioner, addressed the Texan secession convention, where he called upon the slave states of the U.S. to declare secession from the Union in order to continue practicing slavery:\n\nOne Louisianan artillery soldier gave his reasons for fighting for the Confederacy, stating that \"I never want to see the day when a negro is put on an equality with a white person. There is too many free niggers . . . now to suit me, let alone having four millions.\"\n\nThe Union's response to Moore's leveraged secession was embodied in U.S. President Abraham Lincoln's realization that the Mississippi River was the \"backbone of the Rebellion.\" If control of the river were accomplished, the largest city in the Confederacy would be taken back for the Union, and the Confederacy would be split in half. Lincoln moved rapidly to back Admiral David Dixon Porter's idea of a naval advance up the river to both capture New Orleans and maintain Lincoln's political support; by supplying cotton to northern textile manufacturers and renewing trade and exports from the port of New Orleans. The U.S. Navy would become both a formidable invasion force and a means of transporting Union forces, along the Mississippi River and its tributaries. This strategic vision would prove victorious in Louisiana.\n\nA number of notable leaders were associated with Louisiana during the Civil War, including some of the Confederate army's senior ranking generals, as well as several men who led brigades and divisions. Antebellum Louisiana residents P.G.T. Beauregard, Braxton Bragg, and Richard Taylor all commanded significant independent armies during the war. Taylor's forces were among the last active Confederate armies in the field when the war closed.\n\nHenry Watkins Allen led a brigade during the middle of the war before becoming the Confederate Governor of Louisiana from 1864 to 1865. Randall L. Gibson, another competent brigade commander, became a postbellum U.S. Senator as a Democrat. Other brigadiers of note included Alfred Mouton (killed at the Battle of Mansfield), Harry T. Hays, Chatham Roberdeau Wheat (commander of the celebrated \"Louisiana Tigers\" of the Army of Northern Virginia), and Francis T. Nicholls (commander of the \"Pelican Brigade\" until he lost his left foot at Chancellorsville). St. John Lidell was a prominent brigade commander in the Army of Tennessee.\n\nHenry Gray, a wealthy plantation owner from Bienville Parish, was a brigadier general under Richard Taylor before being elected to the Second Confederate Congress late in the war. Leroy A. Stafford was among a handful of Louisiana generals to be killed during the war. Albert Gallatin Blanchard was a rarity—a Confederate general born in Massachusetts.\n\nGovernor Thomas Overton Moore, came held office from 1860 through early 1864. When war erupted, he unsuccessfully lobbied the Confederate government in Richmond for a strong defense of New Orleans. Two days before the city surrendered in April 1862, Moore and the legislature abandoned Baton Rouge as the state capital, relocating to Opelousas in May. Thomas Moore organized military resistance at the state level, ordered the burning of cotton, cessation of trade with the Union forces, and heavily recruited troops for the state militia.\n\nBattles in Louisiana tended to be concentrated along the major waterways, like the Red River Campaign.\nAfter meeting the requirements of Reconstruction, including ratifying amendments to the US Constitution to abolish slavery and grant citizenship to former slaves, Louisiana's representatives were readmitted to Congress. The state was fully restored to the United States on July 9, 1868.\n\nAs part of the Compromise of 1877, under which Southern Democrats acknowledged Republican Rutherford B. Hayes as president, there was the understanding that the Republicans would meet certain demands. One affecting Louisiana was the removal of all U.S. military forces from the former Confederate states. At the time, U.S. troops remained in only Louisiana, South Carolina, and Florida, but the Compromise saw their complete withdrawal from the region.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2055535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2055535", "title": "Manitou Cliff Dwellings", "text": "Manitou Cliff Dwellings\n\nThe Manitou Cliff Dwellings are a group of relocated Anasazi ruins cliff dwellings and museums located just west of Colorado Springs, Colorado on U.S. Highway 24 in Manitou Springs. \n\nThe Anasazi Museum was established and the cliff dwellings built starting in 1904, and were opened to the public in 1907. The museum features displays about the lives of the ancient Anasazi, including exhibits of archaeological artifacts, tools, pottery and weapons. Visitors can also walk through the ancient-style ruins outside.\n\nThe Anasazi lived and roamed the Four Corners area of the Southwestern United States from 1200 B.C. to A.D. 1300. The Anasazi did not live in the Manitou Springs area, but lived and built their cliff dwellings in the Four Corners area, several hundred miles southwest of Manitou Springs. The Manitou Cliff Dwellings were built at their present location in the early 1900s, as a museum, preserve, and tourist attraction. The stones were taken from a collapsed Anasazi site near Cortez in southwest Colorado, shipped by railroad to Manitou Springs, and assembled in their present form as Anasazi-style buildings closely resembling those found in the Four Corners. The project was done with the approval and participation of well-known anthropologist Dr. Edgar Lee Hewett, and Virginia McClurg, founder of the Colorado Cliff Dwelling Association.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "219965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219965", "title": "Manzai", "text": "Manzai\n\nManzai usually involves two performers (\"manzaishi\")—a straight man (\"tsukkomi\") and a funny man (\"boke\")—trading jokes at great speed. Most of the jokes revolve around mutual misunderstandings, double-talk, puns and other verbal gags.\n\nIn recent times, \"manzai\" has often been associated with the Osaka region, and \"manzai\" comedians often speak in the Kansai dialect during their acts. \n\nYoshimoto Kogyo, a large entertainment conglomerate based in Osaka, introduced Osaka-style \"manzai\" to Tokyo audiences, and coined the term \"漫才\" (one of several ways of writing the word \"manzai\" in Japanese; see \"etymology\" below) in 1933. In 2015, Matayoshi Naoki's manzai novel, won the Akutagawa Prize. A mini-series adaptation was released on Netflix in 2016.\n\nOriginally based around a festival to welcome the New Year, \"manzai\" traces its origins back to the Heian period. The two \"manzai\" performers came with messages from the gods and this was worked into a standup routine, with one performer showing some sort of opposition to the word of the other. This pattern still exists in the roles of the \"boke\" and the \"tsukkomi\".\n\nContinuing into the Edo period, the style focused increasingly on the humor aspects of stand-up, and various regions of Japan developed their own unique styles of \"manzai\", such as , , and . With the arrival of the Meiji Period, began changes that would see it surpass in popularity the styles of the former period, although at the time rakugo was still considered the more popular form of entertainment.\n\nWith the end of the Taishō period, Yoshimoto Kōgyō—which itself was founded at the beginning of the era, in 1912—introduced a new style of \"manzai\" lacking much of the celebration that had accompanied it in the past. This new style proved successful and spread all over Japan, including Tokyo. Riding on the waves of new communication technology, \"manzai\" quickly spread through the mediums of stage, radio, and eventually, television, and video games.\n\nThe kanji for \"manzai\" have been written in various ways throughout the ages. It was originally written as , using 萬 rather than the alternative form of the character, 万, and the simpler form 才 for 歳 (which also can be used to write a word meaning 'talent, ability'). The arrival of \"Osaka manzai\" brought another character change, this time changing the first character to 漫.\n\nSimilar in execution to the concepts of \"funny man\" and \"straight man\" in double act comedy (e.g. Abbott and Costello), these roles are a very important characteristic of \"manzai\". comes from the verb \"bokeru\" (惚ける or 呆ける) which carries the meaning of \"senility\" or \"air headed-ness\" and is reflected in the \"boke\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s tendency for misinterpretation and forgetfulness. The word refers to the role the second comedian plays in \"butting in\" and correcting the \"boke\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s errors. In performances it is common for the \"tsukkomi\" to berate the \"boke\" and hit them on the head with a swift smack; one traditional \"manzai\" prop often used for this purpose is a . Another traditional \"manzai\" prop is a small drum, usually carried (and used) by the \"boke\". A Japanese bamboo and paper umbrella is another common prop.\n\nThe tradition of \"tsukkomi\" and \"boke\" is often used in other Japanese comedy, although it may not be as obviously portrayed as it usually is in \"manzai\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33388684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33388684", "title": "Media Cloud", "text": "Media Cloud\n\nMedia Cloud is an open-source content analysis tool that aims to map news media coverage of current events. It \"performs five basic functions -- media definition, crawling, text extraction, word vectoring, and analysis.\" Media cloud \"tracks hundreds of newspapers and thousands of Web sites and blogs, and archives the information in a searchable form. The database ... enable[s] researchers to search for key people, places and events — from Michael Jackson to the Iranian elections — and find out precisely when, where and how frequently they are covered.\" Media Cloud was developed by the Berkman Center for Internet & Society at Harvard University and launched in March 2009. It's distributed under the GNU GPL 3+.\n\nAs of October 2011, Media Cloud tracks news from mostly U.S. sources. It \"collects news stories\" in sets from:\n\nAmong the companies that have collaborated with Media Cloud (or still do) are Morningside Analytics , Betaworks , Bit.ly, Associated Press and Global Voices .\n\nOn May 6, 2011 the Berkman Center relaunched Media Cloud, “a platform designed to let scholars, journalists and anyone interested in the world of media ask and answer quantitative questions about media attention. For more than a year, we’ve been collecting roughly 50,000 English-language stories a day from 17,000 media sources, including major mainstream media outlets, left and right-leaning American political blogs, as well as from 1000 popular general interest blogs.”\nThe data was used to “analyze the differences in coverage of international crises in professional and citizen media and to study the rapid shifts in media attention that have accompanied the flood of breaking news that’s characterized early 2011.” International research has led the way to publishing of “new research that uses Media Cloud to help us understand the structure of professional and citizen media in Russia and in Egypt.”\nThe relaunch of Media Cloud allows users who are interested in using its tools to analyze “what bloggers and journalists are paying attention to, ignoring, celebrating or condemning.\"\n\nDiscussions about the media landscape were a constant between the MIT Media Lab and the Harvard University’s Berkman Center, and they faced the common obstacle of needing a solution for crunching data about news stories in large scale, in order to obtain the answers to certain questions. The motivation for the creation of Media Cloud did not come from one particular question, but from a myriad of them. In the about section of their webpage, the developers of Media Cloud cite some of the early driving questions the system was intended to solve:\n\nThe data analysis would then be able to analyze different aspects of the news coverage, such as the media sources and the languages that would cover these stories.\n\nFirst, Media Cloud chooses a set of media sources and uncovers the feeds for each. Each feed is then crawled in order to determine if any stories have been added to any feed. All content is then extracted of each relevant story. Any advertisements or other navigation pages are left behind. The text of each story is broken down into word counts, which shows the different word choices that each media source uses in discussing any relevant topic. The word counts are then analyzed and published to show data trends.\n\nMedia Cloud was used from September 2010 through January 2012 to obtain data for a study at the Berkman Center for Internet & Society that analyzed a set of 9,757 online stories related to the COICA-SOPA-PIPA debate. The open source application was utilized for the text and link analysis portion of the research. Findings from this research were published in July 2013 .\n\nThe Berkman Center for Internet & Society website offers an interactive visualization map from this study, which was created to “depict media sources (“nodes”, which appear as circles on the map with different colors denoting different media types)… [and] track media sources and their linkages within discrete time slices and allows users to zoom into the controversy to see which entities are present in the debate during a given period…” This map allows for the visualization of how the COICA-SOPA-PIPA controversy evolved over time by using link analysis.\n\nMany companies are taking advantage of the ability to analyze and organize this new data that media cloud can create. Companies such as RAMP offer a \"cloud-based\" way to analyze and create every type of metadata.\n\nThe discussion about media bias has been affected in the way that the Media Cloud project is viewed as having transformed the debate into less of a matter of personal opinions of journalists, and more into a data-driven discussion.\n\nConfirmation bias is one form of development of media bias, in which individuals will seek sources of information that align with the beliefs they already have. And the ultimate consequence of confirmation bias is the creation of echo chambers, a situation in which all the sides of a dispute (usually two) are talking only to themselves, and that will most likely stagnate the debate and muddle the creation of consensus. The analysis of Media Cloud about the Gamergate controversy, an episode of personal attacks on female game developers, showed two cluster of news sources and discussions that were divided by the criteria of the most common opinions. Although there were links between these points in the analysis graph, they did not represent the creation of consensus, and were pointed to as hate-links, in which the sources that would link sources from the other clusters would do so in order to strongly disagree with the content of the link.\n\nMedia cloud's key functionality comes from using web crawling to periodically fetch articles from various sources and then break them down into words that are counted. These word counts are then analyzed to determine what sources are saying about certain news. This process is not unique to Media Cloud and in fact is an application of the recently popular stream algorithms. These are algorithms characterized by operating on a continuous and unending stream of data, rather than waiting for a complete batch of information to be assembled. These algorithms are very useful because they allow monitoring of trends without having to know which topics are going to be the most popular. This type of functionality first noticeably emerged with network managers trying to dynamically see which sites have the highest traffic volumes. From there, stream algorithms have been used to have programs dynamically act on financial information, and by researchers whose experiments generate more data than can be analyzed, so stream algorithms are used to dynamically filter the initial data. Media cloud has similarly taken advantage of the functionality of stream algorithms to dynamically associate words to news as it crawls through various sources, and then provide its signature service of generating sentences based on words that the users are interested in and related media reports.\n\nThe Center for Civic Media states their goal as the fostering of political action and the supporting of civic media, by providing a hub for the production of technological innovation that can be used as tools for such purposes, and by the coordination of community-based design processes at municipal, nation and global levels.\n\nThe Media Cloud is one of the tools used by the Center for Civic Media, and with the capacity for providing data analysis about news coverage from different sources, it has been used in many situations to derive conclusions about the history of news coverage of an event or category, and to generate civic engagement.\n\nDevelopers of Media Cloud intend to help online activism, providing tools to verify the impact of media stories written by activists. These online activists can verify their impact by data analysis acquired using the tool, and looking for important locations it was not able to reach. The sharing of content that has not reached specific target groups can be done by the use of the provided platform.\n\nThe project self-identifies as one of solution by Innovation.\n\nA social study that states that the public debate was responsible for the Stop Online Piracy Act failing, and how it played its role, was proposed by five researchers of the Berkman Center for Internet & Society at Harvard University. The data analysis was based on the use of Media Cloud to analyze the profile of those engaged in the issue. Among those involved in the debate, the study lists people from all groups of political beliefs. As for the sources of coverage and platforms for discussion, tech media, gaming sites and political blogs are said to have played a role bigger than the one of mainstream media. The main conclusion of the study is that the diversification of the political views rather than polarization of the debate enabled the creation of consensus which pressured the policymakers to vote against the bill.\n\nThe Pew Research Center classified the shooting of Trayvon Martin, a teenager who was shot in the chest by a Florida policeman, the most covered news with a social component in the five years that anteceded the event. The paper, conducted with use of Media Cloud, proposes that alternative media participation helped shift the focus of the story from the episode of the shooting to a series of reports on racial segregation.\n\nA study by Julia Wejchert and Katherine Ida made use of Media Cloud to analyze the nature of the news coverage about the abortion debate, focusing on the most shared on social media. According to the proponents, the numbers of the study indicated that the media coverage was focused on legislation and activism. Also, after hand-classifying sources of news coverage as having specific political leanings (conservative, liberal, centrist and libertarian), they point to different use of imagery inside these clusters, with what they classified as liberal media showing protests, mainstream media showing legislative photos, and conservative media showing images of a fetus or a live infant. Julia and Katherine concluded from these results that there is a lack of strategy on the part of the pro-choice side, in contrast with what they see as a well-shaped narrative on the part of the pro-life side.\n\nDuring the first week of 2015, two different episodes of religious violence caused by Islam extremists took place in Baga and Paris. A study conducted by media outlet The Coversation using Media Cloud evaluated and compared the news coverage about the two events. The results of the study pointed to a much larger coverage of the Charlie Hebdo shooting than the Baga massacre globally. The study also reported that the coverage for the Paris attacks exceeded the coverage for the Baga massacre even in Nigeria. The report attributed the uneven media attention not only to Eurocentrism, but to the difficulty in taking a side in the conflict between the Boko Haram and the Nigerian Army.\n\nA study of the Berkman Klein Center based on the results of data analysis of Media Cloud about the influence of the Internet on the overruling of the proposed policy on Net Neutrality by the Federal Communications Commission advocated that the diversity of the debate helped shape the result of the appeal.\n\nThe news of the gang rape of a medical student, Nirbhaya, in New Delhi caused a rise in news coverage of sexual assault in India. This event was the focus of a research study by Media Cloud that analyzed the nature of reports about sexual assault. The proponents of the study defended that the news coverage had ignored gender inequality as a cause for such episodes, and that they had been treated as episodic happenings, in which the individuals responsible were the only ones to blame, according to the data analysis they obtained.\n\nThe day that Media Cloud relaunched, Ethan Zuckerman said, \"We hope the tools we're providing are a complement to amazing efforts like Project for Excellence in Journalism's News Coverage and New Media indices--we consider their tools the gold standard for understanding what topics are discussed in American media. PEJ works their magic using talented teams of coders, who sample different corners of the media ecosystem to find out what's being discussed. We use huge data sets, algorithms, and automation to give a different picture, one focused on language instead of topic.\"\n\nFuture uses for Media Cloud can involve smart phone or tablet applications to introduce the platform to users away from a computer. A Media Cloud app could serve as a news source while on the go for users. If Media Cloud were to expand into different information sites, it could target social media sites and incorporate news into them. Twitter and Facebook have incorporated features for trending news and topics similar to what Media Cloud aims to do.\n\nThe tool is expanding to sources that are not qualified as media, to understand the repercussion of studied events. Social media is the main target, as it includes not only the sharing of news, but also the response to shared content.\n\n"}
{"id": "44282314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44282314", "title": "Mooghaun North Hoard", "text": "Mooghaun North Hoard\n\nThe Mooghaun North Hoard or \"Great Clare Find\" is the name of an important Bronze Age hoard found at Mooghaun North, near Newmarket-on-Fergus in County Clare, Ireland. Considered one of the greatest Bronze Age hoards of gold ever found north of the Alps, unfortunately most of the treasure was melted down soon after its discovery. What remains of the hoard is currently split between the National Museum of Ireland in Dublin and the British Museum in London. It is no. 11 in \"A History of Ireland in 100 Objects\".\n\nIn March 1854, some workers building the West Clare Railway near Newmarket-on-Fergus were realigning a dyke near Mooghaun Lake, when they accidentally uncovered a huge cache of gold jewellery from the Bronze Age. While shifting a stone they brought to light a large cavity in the ground where the treasure was kept. Most of the precious objects were sold to local dealers who melted them down for their bullion value and only 29 out of a total of over 150 objects survived. Most of the British Museum's share of the find was purchased from William Willoughby Cole, 3rd Earl of Enniskillen in 1857.\n\nWhen discovered, the Mooghaun North Hoard was one of the largest Bronze Age treasures ever found in Northern or Western Europe. It consisted of over 150 gold objects including 138 bracelets, six collars, two torcs and several other items which in total weighed over 5 kg. Just 29 objects survived the melting pot - 15 in the National Museum and 14 in the British Museum. The extant items of jewellery from the hoard are mostly crescent-shaped bracelets (23) and six neck collars. Fortunately many pieces from the hoard were copied before they were destroyed. Archaeologists are unsure why the hoard was deposited in the stone chamber - it may have been for safe-keeping during a local crisis or was perhaps a votive offering to the gods.\n\nRecent research indicates that much of the gold used in the creation of these pieces came from the Mourne Mountains in County Down.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22898894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22898894", "title": "Museo Nacional de Arqueología y Etnología", "text": "Museo Nacional de Arqueología y Etnología\n\nThe Museo Nacional de Arqueología y Etnología (MUNAE; \"National Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology\") is a national museum of Guatemala, dedicated to the conservation of archaeological and ethnological artifacts and research into Guatemala's history and cultural heritage. The museum is located in Guatemala City, at Finca La Aurora. First created by a governmental decree on 30 June 1898, the institution and collections of MUNAE relocated premises several times subsequently, until established in its present building in 1946. It has some 3000 square meters of exhibition space, and 1500 sq.m. devoted to restorative and research purposes. MUNAE's collections amount to some 20 thousand archaeological artifacts and 5 thousand ethnological items.\n\n"}
{"id": "11466313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11466313", "title": "Museo Popol Vuh", "text": "Museo Popol Vuh\n\nThe Museo Popol Vuh (\"Popol Vuh Museum\") is home to one of the major collections of Maya art in the world. It is located on the campus of the Universidad Francisco Marroquín in Zone 10, Guatemala City and is known for its extensive collection of pre-Columbian and colonial art of the Maya culture. \n\nThe Popol Vuh Museum is a private, nonprofit, scientific institution supported by its own funds and external donations. The museum is operated by a Board of Directors of citizens of Guatemala interested in the preservation and public display of the exhibits. One of its missions is to provide an educational focus for people who want to see and learn about the pre-Columbian past of Guatemala with the preservation, research, and diffusion of information. \n\nAlthough the museum is well known for its funerary ceramic art, the collection includes a variety of portable stone sculptures, especially from the Preclassic period, and from the coast and adjacent highlands. The section on Maya pottery includes some of the best preserved Maya vases and bowls.\n\nThe origin of the museum dates back to 1975, when Mr.Jorge Castillo hired Maro Tejada, a student of archaeology at la Universidad del Valle, to classify his extensive collection. After it was classified and set up for display in chronological order and it was opened up to the public in zone 1. After Mr.Castillo died in 1977, he decided to donate the collection to the Universidad Francisco Marroquín.The museum was created originally in 1977 to house the collection of Mr. and Mrs. Castillo and now forms part of a beautiful architectural complex of the Universidad Francisco Marroquín in Guatemala City. Jorge and Ella Castillo donated most of their collection of archaeological and colonial pieces in 1978 which are the basis of the Popol Vuh Museum today. They began their private collection of archaeological and colonial objects years before they established founding in 1977. The first location was in La Reforma Ave and 16th street, Guatemala City, but later moved to the Galerias Reforma building in Zone 9 in Guatemala City after three years. Sixteen years later, it was moved to Zone 10, where it stands today. \n\nThe museum is named after the Popol Vuh, a book written soon after the Spanish conquest of Guatemala. It narrates myths and pre-Columbian history of the Quiche, whose kings dominated great part of the Western plateau of Guatemala. The collection at the Popol Vuh Museum includes many objects related to the narratives of the Popol Vuh book.\n\nThe Museo Popol Vuh is one of the most modern of all the museums in Guatemala in terms of physical facilities. It has a very geometric architectural style opposed to the Mayan ruins and renaissance styles erected by the Spanish in Guatemala City. The museum has its preservations behind clear walls with advanced technology of display. The inside walls maintain neutral colors to keep focus on the artifacts. \n\nThe Popol Vuh Museum is located on the campus of Universidad Francisco Marroquin in Zone 10 of Guatemala City. It is open Monday through Friday from nine to five, Saturday from nine to one and is closed on Sunday. Wheelchair accessibility is available in the facility. There are no bus routes available to the museum. Transportation includes walking downhill from Sexta Avenida or yellow cab service. \n\nThe museum offers guided tours of each gallery along with workshops such as archaeological excavation, restoration activities, Mayan pottery creation, etc. Presentations, lectures, and courses are organized throughout the year to educate the community of the Mayan culture in the Guatemalan heritage.\n\nThe exhibit galleries are organized chronologically beginning with the Paleoindian, Archaic, Preclassic, Early Classic, Late Classic, and Postclassic periods of the ancient Maya and ending with Colonial Art . More than 400 archaeological and colonial treasures are on display. \n\nPaleoindian (15,000 – 9000 BC):\n\nThe oldest object in the Museum, which dates back to 9000 BC, is a clovis point, used as a sharp stone tool. It was found in Nahuala in Guatemala’s western highlands and is one of the few found in the country. The Paleoindian period is characterized by hunter-gatherer groups who entered the America by crossing a land bridge connecting eastern Siberia and Alaska. \n\nArchaic (9000 – 1500 BC):\n\nMost of the art found from the Archaic period was excavated from the central highlands and eastern pacific coast and includes many styles of ceramics, in specific, pottery. The Archaic period is recognized as the second period of human existence in the Americas and the shift from agriculture to sedimentary farming. Political organizations of chiefs and caciques and permanent agricultural settlements had been established by the end of this era. This civil structure influenced artists and what was painted on surface drawings on pottery art. \nPreclassic (1500 BC – 250 AD):\n\nPopular material found in artifacts during the Preclassic period involves ceramic, jade, and stone, much of which was traded with the Olmecs in the southern coast. The most notable site where most objects were found is the Kaminaljuyu in the valley of Guatemala, which became popular for its irrigation canal system and its great buildings. The scale of their development reflected the status, power, and wealth of the chiefs of Kaminaljuyu. Many of the oldest examples of hieroglyphic texts are from Guatemala from this rich site. Exhibits from this era include ceramics from the Middle and Late Preclassic era from the Kaminaljuyu and southern coast. \nEarly Classic (250–600):\n\nDuring this period, hieroglyph text was adopted as the main form of communication and art and multi-colored ceramics emerged as a popular element of Classic Maya art. Exhibits include polychrome ceramics from this period. Influence from the large city of Teotihuacan in central Mexico is evident in ceramic art with incense burner and cylindrical tripods of decorative styles. The largest area of the permanent exhibit at the Popol Vuh Museum is dedicated to the Classic period.\n\nLate Classic (600 – 900):\n\nThis period is known for the greatest exponential growth of population in the northern lowlands. The Mayan hieroglyphic texts excavated from this region were advanced, indicating a great level of complex interaction between cities and their political leaders. Exhibits include painted ceramic art of several regional styles depicting mythology, religion with god like figures containing hieroglyphic texts, and often indicating the owner of the piece and the artist. \n\nPostclassic (900 – 1,500):\n\nThis era is registered as the decline of the Maya civilization prior to the Spanish conquest. During this time, much of the population in the highlands and southern coast sough change with the use and trade of gold and copper. Exhibits in the museum from this era include plumbate pottery which has orange and grey tones and depicted lives of animals and supernatural entities of their surfaces. Such pottery was greatly influenced by Mexican culture and was widely traded throughout the Mesoamerica until the end of the Early Postclassic period.\n\nColonial Period (1500 – 19th century):\n\nThe colonial period followed the Spanish conquest and was marked by a rigidly stratified society. During the Colonial period in Guatemala, artistic forms were predominantly educational and religious. Guatemalan sculptures of the sixteenth through eighteenth centuries include examples of Renaissance, Baroque, and Neoclassic styles.\n\n"}
{"id": "3707628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3707628", "title": "Museum Computer Network", "text": "Museum Computer Network\n\nThe Museum Computer Network (MCN) is a US-based non-profit organization for professionals with an interest in the use of computer technology for museums.\n\nMCN was established in 1967 in the New York City area. The history of MCN spans a period during which information technology developed at an exponential pace. The organization began as an informal grouping of museums with the goal of automating registration records. With funding from the New York Council on the Arts, MCN developed a prototype mainframe network that was shared by participants from 1968 to 1971. When the funding ended in 1971, MCN was formally incorporated as a nonprofit organization that has since attracted members from around the world. As new technology superseded the original shared registration system, MCN evolved into a network of professionals wishing to improve their means of developing, managing, and conveying museum information through the use of automation.\n<br>MCN organizes an annual conference, the MCN-L discussion forum, special interest groups, an online directory of museum websites, etc. Members include individuals, institutions and companies. The organization is run by a Board of Directors. Officers include a president, vice-president, secretary and treasurer.\n\nMCN has held an annual conference since 1979. \n<br>Recent Conferences:\n<br>2015 in Minneapolis, Minnesota, November 4–7, 2015, with the title of \"The Invisible Architectures of Connected Museums\".\n<br>2014 in Dallas, Texas with the title of \"Think Big, Start Small, Create\".\n<br>2013 in Montreal, Canada with the title of \"Re:making Museums\"\n<br>2012 in Seattle, Washington with the title of \"Shifting Perspective, Evolving Spaces, Disruptive Technologies\"\n<br>2011 in Atlanta, Georgia with the title of \"Hacking the Museum: Innovation, Agility and Collaboration\"\n<br>2010 in Austin, Texas with the title of \"I/O: The Museum Inside-out/Outside-in\"\n<br>Complete list of MCN Conferences\n\nMCN published \"Spectra\", established in 1974. For example, the Computer Interchange of Museum Information (CIMI) Standards Framework was published in \"Spectra\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38666524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38666524", "title": "Ostrusha mound", "text": "Ostrusha mound\n\nThe Ostrusha mound is a Thracian burial tumulus near the Bulgarian town of Shipka. It was constructed in the middle of the 4th century BC. The stone structures under the more than 18 meters high mound form one of the biggest representative tomb-cult complexes with 6 rooms on an area of 100 square meters. It was professionally excavated in 1993.\n\nOne of the chambers is fully maintained. It is made of two carved-out solid granite blocks, weighing a total of more than 60 tons. The roof block is divided into dozens of square and circle shaped niches filled with masterfully painted portraits, scenes with people, fighting between animals, plants and geometric decorations. Most of the frescoes are severely damaged apart from a portrait of a young noble woman. A horse with full set of silver appliques as well as a gilded armor collar and two silver vessels were found in one of the other rooms that was not robbed in antiquity.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37691878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37691878", "title": "Phonemic restoration effect", "text": "Phonemic restoration effect\n\nPhonemic restoration effect is a perceptual phenomenon where under certain conditions, sounds actually missing from a speech signal can be restored by the brain and may appear to be heard. The effect occurs when missing phonemes in an auditory signal are replaced with a noise that would have the physical properties to mask those phonemes, creating an ambiguity. In such ambiguity, the brain tends towards filling in absent phonemes. The effect can be so strong that some listeners may not even notice that there are phonemes missing. This effect is commonly observed in a conversation with heavy background noise, making it difficult to properly hear every phoneme being spoken. Different factors can change the strength of the effect, including how rich the context or linguistic cues are in speech, as well as the listener's state, such as their hearing status or age.\n\nThis effect is more important to humans than what was initially thought. Linguists have pointed out that at least the English language has many false starts and extraneous sounds. The phonemic restoration effect is the brain's way of resolving those imperfections in our speech. Without this effect interfering with our language processing, there would be a greater need for much more accurate speech signals and human speech could require much more precision. For experiments, white noise is necessary because it takes the place of these imperfections in speech. One of the most important factors in language is continuity and in turn intelligibility.\nThe phonemic restoration effect was first documented in a 1970 paper by Richard M. Warren entitled \"Perceptual Restoration of Missing Speech Sounds\". The purpose of the experiment was to give a reason to why in background of extraneous sounds, masked individual phonemes were still comprehensible.\n\nIn his initial experiments, Warren provided the sentence shown and first replaced the first 's' phoneme in legislatures with extraneous noise, in the form of a cough. In a small group of 20 subjects, 19 did not notice a missing phoneme and one person misidentified the missing phoneme. This indicated that in the absence of a phoneme, the brain filled in the missing phoneme, through top-down processing. This was a phenomenon that was somewhat known at the time, but no one was able to pinpoint why it was occurring or had labeled it. He again did the same experiment with the sentence:\n\nHe replaced the 'wh' sound in wheel and the same results were found. All people tested wrote down wheel. Warren later did much research for next several decades on the subject.\n\nSince Warren, much research has been done to test the various aspects of the effect. These aspects include how many phonemes can be removed, what noise is played in replacement of the phoneme, and how different contexts alter the effect.\n\nNeurally, the signs of interrupted or stopped speech can be suppressed in the thalamus and auditory cortex, possibly as a consequence of top-down processing by the auditory system. Key aspects of the speech signal itself are considered to be resolved somewhere in the interface between auditory and language-specific areas (an example is Wernicke's area), in order for the listener to determine what is being said. Normally, the latter is thought to be instantiated at the end stages of the language processing system, but for restorative processes, much remains unknown about whether the same stages are responsible for the ability to actually fill-in the missing phoneme.\n\nPhonemic restoration is one of several phenomena demonstrating that prior, existing knowledge in the brain provides it with tools to attempt a guess at missing information, something in principle similar to an optical illusion. It is believed that humans and other vertebrates have evolved the ability to complete acoustic signals that are critical but communicated under naturally noisy conditions. For humans, while it is not fully known at what point in the processing hierarchy does the phonemic restoration effect occurs, evidence points to dynamic restorative processes already occurring with basic modulations of sound set at natural articulation rates.\n\nPeople with mild and moderate hearing loss were tested for the effectiveness of phonemic restoration. Those with mild hearing loss performed at the same level of a normal listener. Those with moderate hearing loss had almost no perception and failed to identify the missing phonemes. This research is also dependent on the amount of words the observer is comfortable understanding because of the nature of top-down processing.\n\nFor people with cochlear implants, acoustic simulations of the implant indicated the importance of spectral resolution. When the brain is using top-down processing, it uses as much information as it can to make a decision on if the filler signal in the gap belongs to the speech, and with lower resolution, there is less information to make a correct guess. A study with actual cochlear implant users indicated that some implant users can benefit from phonemic restoration, but again they seem to need more speech information (longer duty cycle in this case) to achieve this.\n\nThe age effects were studied in children and older adults, to observe if children can benefit from phonemic restoration and if so, at what capacity, and if older adults maintain the restoration capacity in the face of age-related neurophysiological changes. \n\nChildren are able to produce results comparable to adults by about the age of 5, however still not doing as well as adults. At such an early age most information is processed through bottom-up processing due to the lack of information to recall from. However,this does mean they are able to use previous knowledge of words to fill in the missing phonemes with much less of their brain developed than adults. \n\nOlder adults (older than 65 years) with no or minimal hearing loss show benefit from phonemic restoration. In some conditions restoration effect can be stronger in older adults than in younger adults, even when the overall speech perception scores are lower in older adults. This observation is likely due to strong linguistic and vocabulary skills that are maintained in advanced age.\n\nIn children, there was no effect of gender on phonemic restoration. \n\nIn adults, instead of completely replacing the phonemes, researchers masked them with tones that are informative(helped the listeners pick the correct phoneme), uninformative(neither helped or hurt the listener select the correct phoneme), or misinformative (hurt the listener in picking the correct phoneme). The results showed that women were much more affected by informative and misinformative cues than men. This evidence suggests that women are influenced by top-down semantic information more than men.\n\nThe effect reverses in a reverberation room, which echoes real life more so than the typical quiet rooms used for experimentation. This allows for echoes of the spoken phonemes to act as the replacement noise for the missing phonemes. The additional produced white noise that replaces the phoneme adds its own echo and causes listeners to not perform as well.\n\nAnother study by Warren was done to determine the effect of the duration of the replacement phoneme on comprehension. Because the brain processes information optimally at a certain rate, when the gap became approximately the length of the word is when the effect started top breakdown and become ineffective. At this point the effect is no longer effective because the observer is now cognisant of the gap.\n\nMuch like the McGurk Effect, when listeners were also able to see the words being spoken, they were much more likely to correctly identify the missing phonemes. Like every sense, the brain will use every piece of information it deems important to make a judgement about what it is perceiving. Using the visual cues of mouth movements, the brain will you both in top-down processing to make a decision about what phoneme is supposed to be heard. Vision is the primary sense for humans and for the most part assists in speech perception the most.\n\nBecause languages are distinctly structured, the brain has some sense of what word is to come next in a proper sentence. When listeners were listening to sentences with proper structure with missing phonemes, they performed much better than with a nonsensical sentence without a proper structure. This comes from the predictive nature of the pre-frontal cortex in determining what word should be coming next in order for the sentence to make sense. Top-down processing relies on the surrounding information in a sentence to fill in the missing information. If the sentence does not make sense to the observer then there will be little at the top of the process for the observer to go off of. If a puzzle piece of a familiar picture was missing, it would be very simple for the brain to know what that puzzle piece would look like. If the picture of something that makes no sense to the human brain and has never been seen before, the brain will have much more difficulty understanding what is missing.\n\nOnly when the intensity of the noise replacing the phonemes is the same or louder as the surrounding words, does the effect properly work. This effect is made apparent when listeners hear a sentence with gaps replaced by white noise repeat over and over with the white noise volume increasing with each iteration. The sentence becomes more and more clear to the listener as the white noise is louder. \n\nWhen a word with the segment 's' is removed and replaced by silence and a comparable noise segment were presented dichotically. Simply put, one ear was hearing the full sentence without phoneme excision and the other ear was hearing a sentence with a 's' sound removed. This version of the phonemic restoration effect was particularly strong because the brain was doing much less guess work with the sentence, because the information was given to the observer. Observers reported hearing exactly the same sentence in both ears, regardless of one of their ears missing a phoneme.\n\nThe restoration effect is studied mostly in English and Dutch, where the restoration effect seemed similar between the two languages. While no research directly compared the restoration effect further for other languages, it is assumed that this effect is universal for all languages.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15684217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15684217", "title": "Rejected Addresses", "text": "Rejected Addresses\n\nRejected Addresses: Or, The New Theatrum Poetarum is the title of an 1812 book of parodies by the brothers James and Horace Smith. It contained 21 good-natured parodies of authors of the time, and was a popular success. Horace Smith was also well known for his sonnet writing competition with Percy Shelley.\n"}
{"id": "24415879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24415879", "title": "Review of Philosophy and Psychology", "text": "Review of Philosophy and Psychology\n\nThe Review of Philosophy and Psychology is a peer-reviewed academic journal published by Springer that focuses on philosophical and foundational issues in cognitive science. The journal is hosted at the Jean Nicod Institute (Paris), a research center of the French National Centre for Scientific Research (CNRS).\n\nThe journal started publication in 1994 as \"European Review of Philosophy\" (). Under its former name, it was published by Stanford University's CSLI Publications and distributed by the University of Chicago Press. It was renamed to its current title in 2010 and volume numbering was started at 1 again.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16162986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16162986", "title": "Royal Oak Foundation", "text": "Royal Oak Foundation\n\nThe Royal Oak Foundation is an alliance of American citizens supporting the mission of the National Trust of England, Wales and Northern Ireland, which is Britain's largest heritage organisation. The foundation is headquartered in New York City.\n\nFounded in 1973 the Royal Oak Foundation is a United States tax-exempt non-profit 501(c) (3) organisation. The foundation supports the preservation and conservation of places of natural beauty, historic properties and monuments and houses and gardens in Britain.\n\nIn the United States, the foundation sponsors the Drue Heinz Lecture Series, which delivers lectures to the public in major U.S. cities on the subjects of architecture, social history, landscape design, interior decoration and decorative arts. The foundation also supports the Damaris Horan Prize Fellowship in Landscape History, sponsoring promising scholars and professionals to work on projects with the National Trust. \n\nMembership is open to the general public, and includes free admission to historic properties operated by the National Trust in the United Kingdom.\n\n"}
{"id": "745270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=745270", "title": "Saint Louis Art Museum", "text": "Saint Louis Art Museum\n\nThe Saint Louis Art Museum is one of the principal U.S. art museums, with paintings, sculptures, cultural objects, and ancient masterpieces from all corners of the world. Its three-story building stands in Forest Park in St. Louis, Missouri, where it is visited by up to a half million people every year. Admission is free through a subsidy from the cultural tax district for St. Louis City and County.\n\nIn addition to the featured exhibitions, the museum offers rotating exhibitions and installations. These include the \"Currents\" series, which features contemporary artists, as well as regular exhibitions of new media art and works on paper.\n\nThe museum was founded in 1879 as the Saint Louis School and Museum of Fine Arts, an independent entity within Washington University in St. Louis, housed in a downtown building. The building was originally built by Wayman Crow as a memorial to honor his son, Wayman Crow Jr. Crow employed Boston architects Peabody & Stearns to design the building located at 19th and Lucas Place (now Locust Street). The school, led by directory Halsey C. Ives, educated two generations of St. Louis artists and craftspeople and offered studio and art history classes supported by a museum collection. After the school moved to Washington University's campus and the museum moved to Forest Park, the building fell into disrepair and was eventually demolished in 1919.\n\nThe museum moved after the 1904 World's Fair, also known as the Louisiana Purchase Exposition, to the Palace of Fine Arts, built for the fair from 1902 to 1903. The building was designed by architect Cass Gilbert, who took inspiration from the Baths of Caracalla in Rome, Italy. The Mildred Lane Kemper Art Museum remained part of Washington University, and the collection was lent to the Saint Louis Art Museum for several years.\n\nIn 1908, the museum's first director, Halsey Cooley Ives, arranged for a municipal tax to support the museum. The following year, the museum separated from Washington University and was renamed the City Art Museum. An organizing board was assigned to take control in 1912.\n\nDuring the 1950s, the museum added an extension to include an auditorium for films, concerts and lectures.\n\nIn 1971, efforts to secure the museum's financial future led voters in St. Louis City and County to approve the creation of the Metropolitan Zoological Park and Museum District (ZMD). This expanded the tax base for the 1908 tax to include St. Louis County. In 1972, the museum was again renamed, to the Saint Louis Art Museum.\n\nToday, the museum is supported financially by the tax, donations from individuals and public associations, sales in the Museum Shop, and foundation support.\n\nPlans to expand the museum, which existed in the 1995 Forest Park Master Plan and the museum's 2000 Strategic Plan, began in earnest in 2005, when the museum board selected the British architect Sir David Chipperfield to design the expansion; Michel Desvigne was selected as landscape architect. The St. Louis-based firm, Hellmuth, Obata, and Kassabaum (HOK) was the architect of record to work with the construction team.\n\nOn November 5, 2007, museum officials released the design plans to the public and hosted public conversations about those plans. A model of the new building was displayed in the museum's Sculpture Hall throughout the construction project. In 2008, citing the declining state of the economy, the museum announced that it would delay the start of the expansion, whose cost was then estimated at $125 million.\n\nConstruction began in 2009; the museum remained open. The expansion added more than of gallery space, including an underground garage, within the lease lines of the property. Money for the project was raised through private gifts to the capital campaign from individuals, foundations and corporations, and from proceeds from the sale of tax-exempt bonds. The fundraising campaigned covered the $130-million cost of construction and a $31.2 million increase to the museum's endowment to support incremental costs of operating the larger facility. The expanded facility opened in the summer of 2013.\n\nThe collection of the Saint Louis Art Museum contains more than 30,000 art works dating from antiquity to the present. The collection is divided into eleven areas:\n\nThe modern art collection includes works by the European masters Matisse, Gauguin, Monet, Picasso, Giambattista Pittoni and Van Gogh. The museum's particularly strong collection of 20th-century German paintings includes the world's largest Max Beckmann collection, which includes \"Christ and the Woman Taken in Adultery\". In recent years, the museum has been actively acquiring post-war German art to complement its Beckmanns, such as works by Joseph Beuys, Gerhard Richter, Martin Kippenberger and others. The collection also includes Chuck Close's \"Keith\" (1970).\n\nThe collections of Oceanic and Mesoamerican works, as well as handwoven Turkish rugs, are among the finest in the world. The museum holds the Egyptian mummy \"Amen-Nestawy-Nakht\", and two mummies on loan from Washington University. Its collection of American artists includes the largest U.S.-museum collection of paintings by George Caleb Bingham.\n\nThe collection contains at least six pieces that Nazis confiscated from their own museums as degenerate. These include Max Beckmann’s “Christ and the Woman Taken in Adultery” which came to the museum through a New York art dealer, Curt Valentin, who specialized in Nazi confiscations, and Matisse's “Bathers with a Turtle” which Joseph Pulitzer purchased at the Galerie Fischer auction held in the Grand Hôtel National, Lucerne, Switzerland, June 30, 1939.\n\nIn the context of the museum's 2013 expansion, British artist Andy Goldsworthy created \"Stone Sea\", a site-specific work for a narrow space between the old and new buildings. Twenty-five tightly packed, ten-foot-high arches made of native limestone rise in a sunken courtyard. The artist was inspired by the fact that the sedimentary rock was formed when the region was a shallow sea in Prehistoric times.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23206599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23206599", "title": "San Pablo Huitzo", "text": "San Pablo Huitzo\n\nSan Pablo Huitzo (commonly referred to as Huitzo) is a town and municipality in Oaxaca in south-western Mexico. The municipality covers an area of 63.80 km².\nIt is part of the Etla District in the Valles Centrales region. As of 2005, the municipality had a total population of 5,242.\n\nThe area comprising Huitzo was inhabited as early as 1200 BCE. By 1400 AD a Zapotec village existed that was known by the name of \"Huijazoo\", a word that means \"Warrior Watchtower\" in the Zapotec language. In 1522 Spanish troops arrived and founded the current city, giving it the name \"Gueixolotitlan\". However, by 1700 the name \"Huitzo\" had been adopted by the populace. When the first Roman Catholic monks arrived to evangelize the local population, they selected St. Paul the Apostle \"(San Pablo, in Spanish)\" as the patron saint of the village and erected a church by the same name. The church is notable for a large number of 16th-century and other colonial-era \"santos\", statues of the saints. It was through the influence of the Catholic Church that the town arrived at its present name San Pablo Huitzo.\n\nToday Huitzo is a farming community noted for growing vegetables and flowers, with almost half of its population employed by farms or other agriculture-related ventures. Archaeological sites in the area consist of several tombs, walls, and similar Zapotec structures. Most of the sites are overgrown with vegetation, however they do attract some tourists and archaeologists.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8807224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8807224", "title": "Seated Hermes", "text": "Seated Hermes\n\nThe bronze Seated Hermes, found at the Villa of the Papyri in Herculaneum in 1758, is at the National Archaeological Museum of Naples. \"This statue was probably the most celebrated work of art discovered at Herculaneum and Pompeii in the eighteenth century\", Francis Haskell and Nicholas Penny have observed, once four large engravings reproducing it had appeared in \"Le Antichità di Ercolano\", 1771. To protect it from Napoleonic depredations, it was packed into one of the fifty-two cases of antiquities and works of art that accompanied the Bourbon flight to Palermo in 1798. It was once again in the royal villa at Portici in 1816 (Haskell and Penny 1981:269).\n\nMartin Robertson (1975, vol I:474) classifies it as a Roman copy, made before AD 79, needless to say, of a Greek bronze original of the late fourth or early third century BC, in the tradition of Lysippos, whose name has been invoked in connection with the sculpture since its first reappearance. Margarete Bieber classifies it as \"school of Lysippos\" and dates it \"ca\" 100 BC. Many bronze statues posed on actual rocks must have been set up in late Hellenistic and Roman gardens, where, Brunilde Sismondo Ridgway suggests, natural boulders \"increased the idyllic aspect of the composition.\" The \"Hermes\" rests his hand casually on the (restored) rock, integrating the composition.\n\n"}
{"id": "37679342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37679342", "title": "Shahrisabz Museum of History and Material Culture", "text": "Shahrisabz Museum of History and Material Culture\n\nThe Shahrisabz Museum of History and Material Culture is a museum in Shahrisabz, Uzbekistan. It was founded in 1996 on the 660th anniversary of Amir Timur's birth and contains arcaheological, ethnographic, and numismatic collections.\n\nThe museum building is located in the complex of madrasah Chubin built in XIV-XVI ages and invested by UNESCO into the list of \"Common to all mankind cultural wealth\". At that time there were more than 40 madrasahs and mosques in the town where religious and universal sciences were taught as registered in the written sources of \"Amir Temur\" and the Timurids’ epoch. In this regard architectural structures of madrasah were very convenient to use them as a museum.\nThe attitude to historical culture fundamentally changed in the Kashkadaria region since the first years of Republic of Uzbekistan. In 1996 in \"Shakhrisabz\" the Museum of Historicy of material culture of Amir Temur was opened.\nIn 1996 as a result of the archeological excavations in connection with 660- year- old anniversary of \"Amir Temur\", more than 6500 items of unique mosaic, a majolica, ceramic, copper, iron and wooden carved products were collected, they made the greatest collection of museum.\n\nConstantly operating exhibition \"Amir Temur is the main architect of Shakhrisabz city\" is organized in the museum. Written sources and the archeological finds telling about a youth of Amir Temur, his contribution to the history of Shakhrisabz, his constructions of architectural monuments when he was governor are shone here. Archeological expedition for the purpose of definition of historical age of Shakhrisabz was organized at the initiative of museum administration. Archeological researches in \"Sangirtepa\" and Uzunkir procceded within 3 years. Scientists of the Edinburgh University of Great Britain and workers of the Hermitage of Russian Federation took part in them. Archeological expedition defined formation of the ancient city of Kesh- Shakhrisabz begun 2700 years ago, the museum was filled up more than 8500 archeological finds they were the basis for the organization of constantly operating exhibition named as \"Shakhrisabz is a coeval of Avesta\".\n18 architectural monuments of Temurid's epoch in Shakhrisabz are entered in \"Universal heritage\" of \"UNESCO\" list.\n\nIn core, formation and definitions of the legal status of a museum, gathering more than 13000 exhibits, definition of scientific orientation directions passed in 1996- 2002 fundamental exhibitions were organized. During 2002-2010 the museum carried out interesting international contacts, increased the professional qualification of workers. Scientific relations with museums of Japan, Borodo-3 University of France, the Russian Hermitage, the Museum of ceramics of Italy, museums of Egypt, Saudi Arabia, Germany, cultural centers \"Dashi-Art\" of Kazakhstan was established. The museum started to be equipped with modern technologies.\nMany workers of a museum are trained in \"Japan, France and Arabian Republic of Egypt\". The exhibition of works \"Saudi Arabia artists\", Days of culture of people of Germany were spent in the halls of museum during this period: cooperation with Cultural center \"Dashi-Art\" was organized. Cultural center \"Dashi-Art\" is a cycle of seminars on the theme: \"Organization of not conventional exhibitions in modern museums and attraction of new technologies\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "771103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=771103", "title": "Statolatry", "text": "Statolatry\n\nStatolatry, which combines idolatry with the state, first appeared in Giovanni Gentile's \"Doctrine of Fascism\", published in 1931 under Mussolini's name, and was also mentioned in Gramsci's Prison Notebooks (1971) sometime between 1931-1932, while he was imprisoned by Mussolini. The same year, the encyclical \"Non abbiamo bisogno\" by Pope Pius XI criticized Fascist Italy as developing \"a pagan worship of the state\" which it called \"statolatry\".\n\nThe term politiolatry was used to describe reason of state doctrine in the 17th century with similar intent.\n\nThe term was also popularized and explained by Ludwig von Mises in his 1944 work \"Omnipotent Government\". Statolatry is literally worship of the State analogous to \"idolatry\" as worship of idols. It asserts that the glorification and aggrandizement of 'State' or 'Nation' is the object of all legitimate human aspiration at the expense of all else, including personal welfare and independent thought. Expansion of the power and influence of one's State is to be achieved, if necessary, through aggressive war and colonial adventures (i.e. imperialism). It far exceeds the patriotism of those who recognize the rights of people other than themselves to self-determination, and might best be described as super-patriotism or chauvinism.\n\n"}
{"id": "39361168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39361168", "title": "T. R. Schellenberg", "text": "T. R. Schellenberg\n\nTheodore Roosevelt Schellenberg (24 February 1903 – 14 January 1970) was an American archivist and archival theorist. Schellenberg's publications and ideas are part of the foundation for archival theory and practice in the United States. In particular, Schellenberg is known for pioneering American archival ideas about appraisal.\n\nTheodore Roosevelt Schellenberg was born on February 24, 1903 to Abraham Lawrence and Sarah Schroeder Schellenberg in Garden Township, Harvey County, Kansas. He attended Tabor College (1924–6) before transferring to the University of Kansas. He graduated with a Bachelor’s degree in history in 1928. He continued his education, receiving his Master's in History from the University of Kansas in 1930 and his Ph.D from the University of Pennsylvania in 1934. That same year, he secured a position with the Joint Committee on Materials for Research as Executive Secretary, part of the American Council of Learned Societies and the Social Science Research Council.\n\nSchellenberg had a long career with the federal government working mostly in the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). In 1935, he gained his first position within NARA when he was appointed as a Deputy Examiner, part of a group of academics who were tasked with examining the records of executive agencies in Washington D.C. He was appointed chief of the Division of Agriculture Department Archives in 1938. It was in this position that he published his first paper in 1939, \"European Archival Practices in Arranging Records\", which laid the groundwork for his life’s work. In it, he observed that European methods only applied to U.S. records management in a limited way. Americans were creating documents at an unprecedented rate, and European archival practices did not adequately respond to the changing needs of American records management. Experiencing this issue firsthand during his work at NARA, Schellenberg's theory of the archives came from the practical need to adapt European archival practices to working with the massive scale of the federal records climate.\n\nSchellenberg briefly left NARA for three years at the close of WWII in 1945, when he took a job as a Records Officer in the Office of Price Administration. His work there illustrated the many difficulties found in managing vast amounts of government records, which only increased his commitment to finding solutions. In 1948, he returned to NARA as Program Advisor to the Archivist and published his first major work in 1949 called \"Disposition of Federal Records: How to Develop an Effective Program for the Preservation and Disposal of Federal Records.\"\n\nSchellenberg was promoted to Director of Archival Management in 1950 and served in that capacity until 1961. One of his first projects was to craft a rigorous training program for NARA employees, since there was inadequate standardization in his division’s policies and procedures. In addition, he created guidelines for how positions would be categorized and ensured that job descriptions were consistent. He continued to provide archival training throughout his tenure at NARA: at one point planning a two-semester course that was offered at the American University; organizing a series of symposiums for senior archivists; and finally, traveling to records centers throughout the U.S. in the late 1950s to provide three-day classes on archives management. He also oversaw a massive reappraisal of documents to deaccession old records and enforced a methodology more selective in the appraisal of new records.\n\nSchellenberg's major contribution to archival practice was to emphasize the centrality of appraisal in archival work, and to make selection a primary role of the archivist. To Schellenberg, a record has \"primary value\" to the creator as evidence of activities, but also has \"secondary value\" (i.e. evidential or informational value) to future users of the records outside of the originating agency, such as other agencies, historians, or private users. He argued the most efficient way to deal with the sheer volume of records that archives were dealing with at the time was to differentiate between a record's primary and secondary value and, thus, determine the relative value of the records based on the secondary value of the records. This differentiation was key for Schellenberg as he argued for a greater distinction between records and archives. In his definition, records only have current, primary value to their creators, but archives are records deemed to have significant secondary value by an archivist (i.e. meriting permanent preservation) outside of their original value to the record's creators. Consequently, records were under the purview of records managers, and only those records holding value for future users (particularly for future historical inquiry) would become a part of the archives.\n\nIn 1954, Schellenberg was given the opportunity to travel to Australia through the Fulbright Program to assist Australians in creating an archival system suited to their archival issues. He spent months helping address records management concerns through a lecture and seminar series that allowed him to travel throughout the continent and even to Tasmania and New Zealand. During this time, his lecture and seminar notes began to take the shape of a textbook on archival work and management practices. In 1956, he published this work as the acclaimed text \"Modern Archives: Principles and Techniques\"—thus creating the first exhaustive American approach to archival administration.\n\nThe book takes up emerging issues, concerns, and approaches to archival theory and practice that modern archivists encounter, thereby reflecting the desire for a closer and more efficient working relationship between records management and archival work and giving readers a broad overview of principles of public records management. In responding to modern archival problems, particularly distinctly American archival concerns, the book also juxtaposes American archival work and theory with those of foreign countries to clarify the fundamental nature and methods of archives, records management, and archival management.\n\nSchellenberg's textbook was largely well received in the archival field, both in America and internationally, and quickly became a central text for students in archival training programs. After the publication, historian and archivist Waldo Gifford Leland positively reviewed the text in the October 1956 issue of the \"American Archivist\", stating: \"This compact and well written book is, at least in the opinion of the reviewer, the most significant and useful statement yet produced on the administration of modern records and archives.\" The following year Schellenberg won a meritorious service award to honor the contributions made to the archival profession through the textbook.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38695081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38695081", "title": "Untitled Web Series About a Space Traveler Who Can Also Travel Through Time", "text": "Untitled Web Series About a Space Traveler Who Can Also Travel Through Time\n\nUntitled Web Series About a Space Traveler Who Can Also Travel Through Time (\"UWSAASTWCATTT\"), also known as Inspector Spacetime, is an ongoing adventure-sci-fi web series created by Travis Richey, and based on the television comedy series \"Community\". The series is based on a fictional series first mentioned during the episode \"Biology 101\" of \"Community\". \"Inspector Spacetime\" is, by itself, a \"Doctor Who\" parody. \"UWSAASTWCATTT\" follows The Inspector, a character that can travel through time and space by way of a red BOOTH (Bio Organic Omnidirectional Time Helix), a special space/timeship similar in some ways to the TARDIS. Reception for the series has been positive, with \"USA Today\" including it in their \"Best of TV on the Web in 2012\" list. A feature film based on the series, entitled The Inspector Chronicles, is currently in production.\n\nThe series was initially pitched to NBC (\"Community\"s television network at the time), who appeared uninterested. Richey then began a Kickstarter campaign to fund the series, which was successful. After an animated teaser episode for the series was produced, NBC requested the production be cancelled. Richey continued with the series, but with references to the name 'Inspector Spacetime' removed and the appearance of the character altered. The series' name was then changed to \"Untitled Web Series About a Space Traveler Who Can Also Travel Through Time\".\n\nSeason two began shooting in April 2013, with the announcement that Mayim Bialik would be joining the series as the voice of the time machine. In July 2013, it was also announced that \"\" alum Robert Picardo would also be joining the cast for season two. It has recently been announced that season 2, will instead be a feature film called the Inspector Chronicles: A Motion Picture about a Space Traveler who can also travel through time. Sylvester McCoy has joined the cast as Uncle Roderick. A crowdfunding campaign at indiegogo.com was released to fund development of the film, it made $36,993, passing its goal, which was $25,000.\n\nMain cast as listed on the official website:\n\nGuest stars include:\n\n"}
{"id": "31697388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31697388", "title": "Warm-up comedian", "text": "Warm-up comedian\n\nA warm-up comedian or crowd warmer is a stand-up comedian who performs at a comedy club or before the filming of a television comedy in front of a studio audience to get the crowd into the mood ready for the show or main act. Their role is to make the audience feel integral to the show and encourage reactions during the show.\n\nThey usually work alone and perform a comedy routine while also possibly explaining aspects of the show. They will also perform during commercial breaks. Some warm-up routines before talk shows involve giving prizes to audience members. The use of warm-ups dates back before television to radio shows.\n\n"}
